The All-mother never fails to offer to her own, twin cups, one gall, and one of balm. Little
or much they may drink, but equally of each. The mountain that is easy to descend must soon
be climbed again. The grinding hardship of Wahb's early days, had built his mighty frame. All
usual pleasures of a grizzly's life had been denied him but power bestowed in more than double
share. So he lived on year after year, unsoftened by mate or companion, sullen, fearing nothing,
ready to fight, but asking only to be let alone--quite alone. He had but one keen pleasure
in his sombre life--the lasting glory in his matchless strength--the small but never failing
thrill of joy as the foe fell crushed and limp, or the riven boulders grit and heaved when
he turned on them the measure of his wondrous force.

IV.

Everything has a smell of its own for those that have noses to smell. Wahb had been learning
smells all his life, and knew the meaning of most of those in the mountains. It was as though
each and every thing had a voice of its own for him; and yet it was far better than a voice,
for every one knows that a good nose is better than eyes and ears together. And each of these
myriads of voices kept on crying, "Here and such am I."

The juniper-berries, the rosehips, the strawberries, each had a soft, sweet little voice, calling,
"Here we are--Berries, Berries."

The great pine woods had a loud, far-reaching voice, "Here are we, the Pine-trees," but when
he got right up to them Wahb could hear the low, sweet call of the pinon-nuts, "Here are we,
the Pinon-nuts."

And the quamash beds in May sang a perfect chorus when the wind was right: "Quamash beds, Quamash
beds."

And when he got among them he made out each single voice.

Each root had its own little piece to say to his nose: "Here am I, a big Quamash, rich and
ripe," or a tiny, sharp voice, "Here am I, a good-for-nothing, stringy little root."

And the broad, rich russulas in the autumn called aloud, "I am a fat, wholesome Mushroom,"
and the deadly amanita cried, "I am an Amanita. Let me alone, or you'll be a sick Bear." And
the fairy harebell of the canon-banks sang a song too, as fine as its threadlike stem, and
as soft as its dainty blue; but the warden of the smells had learned to report it not, for
this, and a million other such, were of no interest to Wahb.

So every living thing that moved, and every flower that grew, and every rock and stone and
shape on earth told out its tale and sang its little story to his nose. Day or night, fog or
bright, that great, moist nose told him most of the things he needed to know, or passed unnoticed
those of no concern, and he depended on it more and more. If his eyes and ears together reported
so and so, he would not even then believe it until his nose said, "Yes; that is right."

But this is something that man cannot understand, for he has sold the birthright of his nose
for the privilege of living in towns.

While hundreds of smells were agreeable to Wahb, thousands were indifferent to him, a good
many were unpleasant, and some actually put him in a rage.

He had often noticed that if a west wind were blowing when he was at the head of the Piney
Canon there was an odd, new scent. Some days he did not mind, it, and some days it disgusted
him; but he never followed it up. On other days a north wind from the high Divide brought a
most awful smell, something unlike any other, a smell that he wanted only to get away from.

Wahb was getting well past his youth now, and he began to have pains in the hind leg that had
been wounded so often. After a cold night or a long time of wet weather he could scarcely use
that leg, and one day, while thus crippled, the west wind came down the canon with an odd message
to his nose. Wahb could not clearly read the message, but it seemed to say, 'Come,' and something
within him said, 'Go.' The smell of food will draw a hungry creature and disgust a gorged one.
We do not know why, and all that any one can learn is that the desire springs from a need of
the body. So Wahb felt drawn by what had long disgusted him, and he slouched up the mountain
path, grumbling to himself and slapping savagely back at branches that chanced to switch his face.

The odd odor grew very strong; it led him where he had never been before--up a bank of whitish
sand to a bench of the same color, where there was unhealthy-looking water running down, and
a kind of fog coming out of a hole. Wahb threw up his nose suspiciously--such a peculiar smell!
He climbed the bench.

A snake wriggled across the sand in front. Wahb crushed it with a blow that made the near trees
shiver and sent a balanced boulder toppling down, and he growled a growl that rumbled up the
valley like distant thunder. Then he came to the foggy hole. It was full of water that moved
gently and steamed. Wahb put in his foot, and found it was quite warm and that it felt pleasantly
on his skin. He put in both feet, and little by little went in farther, causing the pool to
overflow on all sides, till he was lying at full length in the warm, almost hot, sulphur-spring,
and sweltering in the greenish water, while the wind drifted the steam about overhead.

There are plenty of these sulphur-springs in the Rockies, but this chanced to be the only one
on Wahb's range. He lay in it for over an hour; then, feeling that he had had enough, he heaved
his huge bulk up on the bank, and realized that he was feeling remarkably well and supple.
The stiffness of his hind leg was gone.

He shook the water from his shaggy coat. A broad ledge in full sun-heat invited him to stretch
himself out and dry. But first he reared against the nearest tree and left a mark that none
could mistake. True, there were plenty of signs of other animals using the sulphur-bath for
their ills; but what of it? Thenceforth that tree bore this inscription, in a language of mud,
hair, and smell, that every mountain creature could read:

My bath. Keep away!

(Signed) WAHB.

Wahb lay on his belly till his back was dry, then turned on his broad back and squirmed about
in a ponderous way till the broiling sun had wholly dried him. He realized that he was really
feeling very well now. He did not say to himself, "I am troubled with that unpleasant disease
called rheumatism, and sulphur-bath treatment is the thing to cure it." But what he did know
was, "I have dreadful pains; I feel better when I am in this stinking pool." So thenceforth
he came back whenever the pains began again, and each time he was cured.

PART III.

THE WANING

I.

Years went by. Wahb grew no bigger,--there was no need for that,--but he got whiter, crosser,
and more dangerous. He really had an enormous range now. Each spring, after the winter storms
had removed his notice-boards, he went around and renewed them. It was natural to do so, for,
first of all, the scarcity of food compelled him to travel all over the range. There were lots
of clay wallows at that season, and the itching of his skin, as the winter coat began to shed,
made the dressing of cool, wet clay very pleasant, and the exquisite pain of a good scratching
was one of the finest pleasures he knew. So, whatever his motive, the result was the same:
the signs were renewed each spring.

At length the Palette Ranch outfit appeared on the Lower Piney, and the men got acquainted
with the 'ugly old fellow.' The Cowpunchers, when they saw him, decided they 'had n't lost
any Bears and they had better keep out of his way and let him mind his business.'

They did not often see him, although his tracks and sign-boards were everywhere. But the owner
of this outfit, a born hunter, took a keen interest in Wahb. He learned something of the old
Bear's history from Colonel Pickett, and found out for himself more than the colonel ever knew.

He learned that Wahb ranged as far south as the Upper Wiggins Fork and north to the Stinking
Water, and from the Meteetsee to the Shoshones.

He found that Wahb knew more about Bear-traps than most trappers do; that he either passed
them by or tore open the other end of the bait-pen and dragged out the bait without going near
the trap, and by accident or design Wahb sometimes sprang the trap with one of the logs that
formed the pen. This ranch-owner found also that Wahb disappeared from his range each year
during the heat of the summer, as completely as he did each winter during his sleep.

II.

Many years ago a wise government set aside the head waters of the Yellowstone to be a sanctuary
of wild life forever. In the limits of this great Wonderland the ideal of the Royal Singer
was to be realized, and none were to harm or make afraid. No violence was to be offered to
any bird or beast, no ax was to be carried into its primitive forests, and the streams were
to flow on forever unpolluted by mill or mine. All things were to bear witness that such as
this was the West before the white man came.

The wild animals quickly found out all this. They soon learned the boundaries of this unfenced
Park, and, as every one knows, they show a different nature within its sacred limits. They
no longer shun the face of man, they neither fear nor attack him, and they are even more tolerant
of one another in this land of refuge.

Peace and plenty are the sum of earthly good; so, finding them here, the wild creatures crowd
into the Park from the surrounding country in numbers not elsewhere to be seen.

The Bears are especially numerous about the Fountain Hotel. In the woods, a quarter of a mile
away, is a smooth open place where the steward of the hotel has all the broken and waste food
put out daily for the Bears, and the man whose work it is has become the Steward of the Bears'
Banquet. Each day it is spread, and each year there are more Bears to partake of it. It is
a common thing now to see a dozen Bears feasting there at one time. They are of all kinds--Black,
Brown, Cinnamon, Grizzly, Silvertip, Roach-backs, big and small, families and rangers, from
all parts of the vast surrounding country. All seem to realize that in the Park no violence
is allowed, and the most ferocious of them have here put on a new behavior. Although scores
of Bears roam about this choice resort, and sometimes quarrel among themselves, not one of
them has ever yet harmed a man.

Year after year they have come and gone. The passing travellers see them. The men of the hotel
know many of them well. They know that they show up each summer during the short season when
the hotel is in use, and that they disappear again, no man knowing whence they come or whither
they go.

One day the owner of the Palette Ranch came through the Park. During his stay at the Fountain
Hotel, he went to the Bear banquet-hall at high meal-tide. There were several Blackbears feasting,
but they made way for a huge Silvertip Grizzly that came about sundown.

"That," said the man who was acting as guide, "is the biggest Grizzly in the Park; but he is
a peaceable sort, or Lud knows what'd happen."

"That!" said the ranchman, in astonishment, as the Grizzly came hulking nearer, and loomed
up like a load of hay among the piney pillars of the Banquet Hall. "That! It that is not Meteetsee
Wahb, I never saw a Bear in my life! Why, that is the worst Grizzly that ever rolled a log
in the Big Horn Basin." "It ain't possible," said the other, "for he's here every summer, July
and August, an' I reckon he don't live so far away."

"Well, that settles it," said the ranchman; "July and August is just the time we miss him on
the range; and you can see for yourself that he is a little lame behind and has lost a claw
of his left front foot. Now I know where he puts in his summers; but I did not suppose that
the old reprobate would know enough to behave himself away from home."

The big Grizzly became very well known during the successive hotel seasons. Once only did he
really behave ill, and that was the first season he appeared, before he fully knew the ways
of the Park.

He wandered over to the hotel, one day, and in at the front door. In the hall he reared up
his eight feet of stature as the guests fled in terror; then he went into the clerk's office.
The man said: "All right; if you need this office more than I do, you can have it," and leaping
over the counter, locked himself in the telegraph-office, to wire the superintendent of the
Park: "Old Grizzly in the office now, seems to want to run hotel; may we shoot?"

The reply came: "No shooting allowed in Park; use the hose." Which they did, and, wholly taken
by surprise, the Bear leaped over the counter too, and ambled out the back way, with a heavy
thud-thudding of his feet, and a rattling of his claws on the floor. He passed through the
kitchen as he went, and, picking up a quarter of beef, took it along.

This was the only time he was known to do ill, though on one occasion he was led into a breach
of the peace by another Bear. This was a large she-Blackbear and a noted mischief-maker. She
had a wretched, sickly cub that she was very proud of--so proud that she went out of her way
to seek trouble on his behalf. And he, like all spoiled children, was the cause of much bad
feeling. She was so big and fierce that she could bully all the other Blackbears, but when
she tried to drive off old Wahb she received a pat from his paw that sent her tumbling like
a football. He followed her up, and would have killed her, for she had broken the peace of
the Park, but she escaped by climbing a tree, from the top of which her miserable little cub
was apprehensively squealing at the pitch of his voice. So the affair was ended; in future
the Blackbear kept out of Wahb's way, and he won the reputation of being a peaceable, well-behaved
Bear. Most persons believed that he came from some remote mountains where were neither guns
nor traps to make him sullen and revengeful.

III.

Every one knows that a Bitter-root Grizzly is a bad Bear. The Bitter-root Range is the roughest
part of the mountains. The ground is everywhere cut up with deep ravines and overgrown with
dense and tangled underbrush.

It is an impossible country for horses, and difficult for gunners, and there is any amount
of good Bear-pasture. So there are plenty of Bears and plenty of trappers.

The Roachbacks, as the Bitter-root Grizzlies are called, are a cunning and desperate race.
An old Roachback knows more about traps than half a dozen ordinary trappers; he knows more
about plants and roots than a whole college of botanists. He can tell to a certainty just when
and where to find each kind of grub and worm, and he knows by a whiff whether the hunter on
his trail a mile away is working with guns, poison, dogs, traps, or all of them together. And
he has one general rule, which is an endless puzzle to the hunter: 'Whatever you decide to
do, do it quickly and follow it right up.' So when a trapper and a Roachback meet, the Bear
at once makes up his mind to run away as hard as he can, or to rush at the man and fight to
a finish.

The Grizzlies of the Bad Lands did not do this: they used to stand on their dignity and growl
like a thunder-storm, and so gave the hunters a chance to play their deadly lightning; and
lightning is worse than thunder any day. Men can get used to growls that rumble along the ground
and up one's legs to the little house where one's courage lives; but Bears cannot get used
to 45-90 soft-nosed bullets, and that is why the Grizzlies of the Bad Lands were all killed off.

So the hunters have learned that they never know what a Roachback will do; but they do know
that he is going to be quick about it.

Altogether these Bitter-root Grizzlies have solved very well the problem of life, in spite
of white men, and are therefore increasing in their own wild mountains.

Of course a range will hold only so many Bears, and the increase is crowded out; so that when
that slim young Bald-faced Roachback found he could not hold the range he wanted, he went out
perforce to seek his fortune in the world.

He was not a big Bear, or he would not have been crowded out; but he had been trained in a
good school, so that he was cunning enough to get on very well elsewhere. How he wandered down
to the Salmon River Mountains and did not like them; how he traveled till he got among the
barb-wire fences of the Snake Plains and of course could not stay there; how a mere chance
turned him from going eastward to the Park, where he might have rested; how he made for the
Snake River Mountains and found more hunters than berries; how he crossed into the Tetons and
looked down with disgust on the teeming man colony of Jackson's Hole, does not belong to this
history of Wahb. But when Baldy Roachback crossed the Gros Ventre Range and over the Wind River
Divide to the head of the Graybull, he does come into the story, just as he did into the country
and the life of the Meteetsee Grizzly.

The Roachback had not found a man-sign since he left Jackson's Hole, and here he was in a land
of plenty of food. He feasted on all the delicacies of the season, and enjoyed the easy, brushless
country till he came on one of Wahb's sign-posts.

"Trespassers beware!" it said in the plainest manner. The Roachback reared up against it.

"Thunder! what a Bear!" The nose-mark was a head and neck above Baldy's highest reach. Now,
a simple Bear would have gone quietly away after this discovery; but Baldy felt that the mountains
owed him a living, and here was a good one if he could keep out of the way of the big fellow.
He nosed about the place, kept a sharp lookout for the present owner, and went on feeding wherever
he ran across a good thing.

A step or two from this ominous tree was an old pine stump. In the Bitter-roots there are often
mice-nests under such stumps, and Baldy jerked it over to see. There was nothing. The stump
rolled over against the sign-post. Baldy had not yet made up his mind about it; but a new notion
came into his cunning brain. He turned his head on this side, then on that. He looked at the
stump, then at the sign, with his little pig-like eyes. Then he deliberately stood up on the
pine root, with his back to the tree, and put his mark away up, a head at least above that
of Wahb. He rubbed his back long and hard, and he sought some mud to smear his head and shoulders,
then came back and made the mark so big, so strong, and so high, and emphasized it with such
claw-gashes in the bark, that it could be read only in one way--a challenge to the present
claimant from some monstrous invader, who was ready, nay anxious, to fight to a finish for
this desirable range.

Maybe it was accident and maybe design, but when the Roach-back jumped from the root it rolled
to one side. Baldy went on down the canon, keeping the keenest lookout for his enemy.

It was not long before Wahb found the trail of the interloper, and all the ferocity of his
outside-the-Park nature was aroused.

He followed the trail for miles on more than one occasion. But the small Bear was quick-footed
as well as quick-witted, and never showed himself. He made a point, however, of calling at
each sign-post, and if there was any means of cheating, so that his mark might be put higher,
he did it with a vim, and left a big, showy record. But if there was no chance for any but
a fair register, he would not go near the tree, but looked for a fresh tree near by with some
log or side-ledge to reach from.

Thus Wahb soon found the interloper's marks towering far above his own--a monstrous Bear evidently,
that even he could not be sure of mastering. But Wahb was no coward. He was ready to fight
to a finish any one that might come; and he hunted the range for that invader. Day after day
Wahb sought for him and held himself ready to fight. He found his trail daily, and more and
more often he found that towering record far above his own. He often smelled him on the wind;
but he never saw him, for the old Grizzly's eyes had grown very dim of late years; things but
a little way off were blurs to him. The continual menace could not but fill Wahb with uneasiness,
for he was not young now, and his teeth and claws were worn and blunted. He was more than ever
troubled with pains in his old wounds, and though he could have risen on the spur of the moment
to fight any number of Grizzlies of any size, still the continual apprehension, the knowledge
that he must hold himself ready at any moment to fight this young monster, weighed on his spirits
and began to tell on his general health.

IV.

The Roachback's life was one of continual vigilance, always ready to run, doubling and shifting
to avoid the encounter that must mean instant death to him. Many a time from some hiding-place
he watched the great Bear, and trembled lest the wind should betray him. Several times his
very impudence saved him, and more than once he was nearly cornered in a box-canon. Once he
escaped only by climbing up a long crack in a cliff, which Wahb's huge frame could not have
entered. But still, in a mad persistence, he kept on marking the trees farther into the range.

At last he scented and followed up the sulphur-bath. He did not understand it at all. It had
no appeal to him, but hereabouts were the tracks of the owner. In a spirit of mischief the
Roachback scratched dirt into the spring, and then seeing the rubbing-tree, he stood sidewise
on the rocky ledge, and was thus able to put his mark fully five feet above that of Wahb. Then
he nervously jumped down, and was running about, defiling the bath and keeping a sharp lookout,
when he heard a noise in the woods below. Instantly he was all alert. The sound drew near,
then the wind brought the sure proof, and the Roachback, in terror, turned and fled into the woods.

It was Wahb. He had been failing in health of late; his old pains were on him again, and, as
well as his hind leg, had seized his right shoulder, where were still lodged two rifle-balls.
He was feeling very ill, and crippled with pain. He came up the familiar bank at a jerky limp,
and there caught the odor of the foe; then he saw the track in the mud--his eyes said the track
of a small Bear, but his eyes were dim now, and his nose, his unerring nose, said, "This is
the track of the huge invader." Then he noticed the tree with his sign on it, and there beyond
doubt was the stranger's mark far above his own. His eyes and nose were agreed on this; and
more, they told him that the foe was close at hand, might at any moment come.

Wahb was feeling ill and weak with pain. He was in no mood for a desperate fight. A battle
against such odds would be madness now. So, without taking the treatment, he turned and swung
along the bench away from the direction taken by the stranger--the first time since his cubhood
that he had declined to fight.

That was a turning-point in Wahb's life. If he had followed up the stranger he would have found
the miserable little craven trembling, cowering, in an agony of terror, behind a log in a natural
trap, a walled-in glade only fifty yards away, and would surely have crushed him. Had he even
taken the bath, his strength and courage would have been renewed, and if not, then at least
in time he would have met his foe, and his after life would have been different. But he had
turned. This was the fork in the trail, but he had no means of knowing it.

He limped along, skirting the lower spurs of the Shoshones, and soon came on that horrid smell
that he had known for years, but never followed up or understood. It was right in his road,
and he traced it to a small, barren ravine that was strewn over with skeletons and dark objects,
and Wahb, as he passed, smelled a smell of many different animals, and knew by its quality
that they were lying dead in this treeless, grassless hollow. For there was a cleft in the
rocks at the upper end, whence poured a deadly gas; invisible but heavy, it filled the little
gulch like a brimming poison bowl, and at the lower end there was a steady overflow. But Wahb
knew only that the air that poured from it as he passed made him dizzy and sleepy, and repelled
him, so that he got quickly away from it and was glad once more to breathe the piny wind. Once
Wahb decided to retreat, it was all too easy to do so next time; and the result worked double
disaster. For, since the big stranger was allowed possession of the sulphur-spring, Wahb felt
that he would rather not go there. Sometimes when he came across the traces of his foe, a spurt
of his old courage would come back. He would rumble that thunder-growl as of old, and go painfully
lumbering along the trail to settle the thing right then and there. But he never overtook the
mysterious giant, and his rheumatism, growing worse now that he was barred from the cure, soon
made him daily less capable of either running or fighting.

Sometimes Wahb would sense his foe's approach when he was in a bad place for fighting, and,
without really running, he would yield to a wish to be on a better footing, where he would
have a fair chance. This better footing never led him nearer the enemy, for it is well known
that the one awaiting has the advantage.

Some days Wahb felt so ill that it would have been madness to have staked everything on a fight,
and when he felt well or a little better, the stranger seemed to keep away.

Wahb soon found that the stranger's track was most often on the Warhouse and the west slope
of the Piney, the very best feeding-grounds. To avoid these when he did not feel equal to fighting
was only natural, and as he was always in more or less pain now, it amounted to abandoning
to the stranger the best part of the range.

Weeks went by. Wahb had meant to go back to his bath, but he never did. His pains grew worse;
he was now crippled in his right shoulder as well as in his hind leg.

The long strain of waiting for the fight begot anxiety, that grew to be apprehension, which,
with the sapping of his strength, was breaking down his courage, as it always must when courage
is founded on muscular force. His daily care now was not to meet and fight the invader, but
to avoid him till he felt better.

Thus that first little retreat grew into one long retreat. Wahb had to go farther and farther
down the Piney to avoid an encounter. He was daily worse fed, and as the weeks went by was
daily less able to crush a foe.

He was living and hiding at last on the Lower Piney--the very place where once his Mother had
brought him with his little brothers. The life he led now was much like the one he had led
after that dark day. Perhaps for the same reason. If he had had a family of his own all might
have been different. As he limped along one morning, seeking among the barren aspen groves
for a few roots, or the wormy partridge-berries that were too poor to interest the Squirrel
and the Grouse, he heard a stone rattle down the western slope into the woods, and, a little
later, on the wind was borne the dreaded taint. He waded through the ice-cold Piney,--once
he would have leaped it,--and the chill water sent through and up each great hairy limb keen
pains that seemed to reach his very life. He was retreating again--which way? There seemed
but one way now--toward the new ranch-house.

But there were signs of stir about it long before he was near enough to be seen. His nose,
his trustiest friend, said, "Turn, turn and seek the hills," and turn he did even at the risk
of meeting there the dreadful foe. He limped painfully along the north bank of the Piney, keeping
in the hollows and among the trees. He tried to climb a cliff that of old he had often bounded
up at full speed. When half-way up his footing gave way, and down he rolled to the bottom.
A long way round was now the only road, for onward he must go--on--on. But where? There seemed
no choice now but to abandon the whole range to the terrible stranger.

And feeling, as far as a Bear can feel, that he is fallen, defeated, dethroned at last, that
he is driven from his ancient range by a Bear too strong for him to face, he turned up the
west fork, and the lot was drawn. The strength and speed were gone from his once mighty limbs;
he took three times as long as he once would to mount each well-known ridge, and as he went
he glanced backward from time to time to know if he were pursued. Away up the head of the little
branch were the Shoshones, bleak, forbidding; no enemies were there, and the Park was beyond
it all--on, on he must go. But as he climbed with shaky limbs, and short uncertain steps, the
west wind brought the odor of Death Gulch, that fearful little valley where everything was
dead, where the very air was deadly. It used to disgust him and drive him away, but now Wahb
felt that it had a message for him; he was drawn by it. It was in his

 line of flight, and he hobbled slowly toward the place.
He went nearer, nearer, until he stood upon the entering ledge. A
Vulture that had descended to feed on one of the victims was slowly
going to sleep on the untouched carcass. Wahb swung his great grizzled
muzzle and his long white beard in the wind. The odor that he once had
hated was attractive now. There was a strange biting quality in the
air. His body craved it. For it seemed to numb his pain and it promised
sleep, as it did that day when first he saw the place.

Far below him, to the right and to the left and on and on as far as the eye could reach, was
the great kingdom that once had been his; where he had lived for years in the glory of his
strength; where none had dared to meet him face to face. The whole earth could show no view
more beautiful. But Wahb had no thought of its beauty; he only knew that it was a good land
to live in; that it had been his, but that now it was gone, for his strength was gone, and
he was flying to seek a place where he could rest and be at peace.

Away over the Shoshones, indeed, was the road to the Park, but it was far, far away, with a
doubtful end to the long, doubtful journey. But why so far? Here in this little gulch was all
he sought; here were peace and painless sleep. He knew it; for his nose, his never-erring nose,
said, "Here! here now!"

He paused a moment at the gate, and as he stood the wind-borne fumes began their subtle work.
Five were the faithful wardens of his life, and the best and trustiest of them all flung open
wide the door he long had kept. A moment still Wahb stood in doubt. His lifelong guide was
silent now, had given up his post. But another sense he felt within. The Angel of the Wild
Things was standing there, beckoning, in the little vale. Wahb did not understand. He had no
eyes to see the tear in the Angel's eyes, nor the pitying smile that was surely on his lips.
He could not even see the Angel. But he felt him beckoning, beckoning. A rush of his ancient
courage surged in the Grizzly's rugged breast. He turned aside into the little gulch. The deadly
vapors entered in, filled his huge chest and tingled in his vast, heroic limbs as he calmly
lay down on the rocky, herbless floor and as gently went to sleep, as he did that day in his
Mother's arms by the Graybull, long ago.