February 15.  Up with the sun.  A brilliant morning, and frosty.  A double suit of flannels
is found necessary.  The plain is perfectly level, and seems to stretch away and away and away,
dimming and softening, to the uttermost bounds of nowhere.  What a soaring, strenuous, gushing
fountain spray of delicate greenery a bunch of bamboo is!  As far as the eye can reach, these
grand vegetable geysers grace the view, their spoutings refined to steam by distance.  And
there are fields of bananas, with the sunshine glancing from the varnished surface of their
drooping vast leaves.  And there are frequent groves of palm; and an effective accent is given
to the landscape by isolated individuals of this picturesque family, towering, clean-stemmed,
their plumes broken and hanging ragged, Nature's imitation of an umbrella that has been out
to see what a cyclone is like and is trying not to look disappointed.  And everywhere through
the soft morning vistas we glimpse the villages, the countless villages, the myriad villages,
thatched, built of clean new matting, snuggling among grouped palms and sheaves of bamboo;
villages, villages, no end of villages, not three hundred yards apart, and dozens and dozens
of them in sight all the time; a mighty City, hundreds of miles long, hundreds of miles broad,
made all of villages, the biggest city in the earth, and as populous as a European kingdom.
I have seen no such city as this before.  And there is a continuously repeated and replenished
multitude of naked men in view on both sides and ahead.  We fly through it mile after mile,
but still it is always there, on both sides and ahead--brown-bodied, naked men and boys, plowing
in the fields. But not woman.  In these two hours I have not seen a woman or a girl working
in the fields.

Those are beautiful verses, and they have remained in my memory all my life.  But if the closing
lines are true, let us hope that when we come to answer the call and deliver the land from
its errors, we shall secrete from it some of our high-civilization ways, and at the same time
borrow some of its pagan ways to enrich our high system with.  We have a right to do this.
If we lift those people up, we have a right to lift ourselves up nine or ten grades or so,
at their expense.  A few years ago I spent several weeks at Tolz, in Bavaria.  It is a Roman
Catholic region, and not even Benares is more deeply or pervasively or intelligently devout.
In my diary of those days I find this:

     "We took a long drive yesterday around about the lovely country
     roads.  But it was a drive whose pleasure was damaged in a couple of
     ways: by the dreadful shrines and by the shameful spectacle of gray
     and venerable old grandmothers toiling in the fields.  The shrines
     were frequent along the roads--figures of the Saviour nailed to the
     cross and streaming with blood from the wounds of the nails and the
     thorns.

     "When missionaries go from here do they find fault with the pagan
     idols?  I saw many women seventy and even eighty years old mowing
     and binding in the fields, and pitchforking the loads into the
     wagons."

I was in Austria later, and in Munich.  In Munich I saw gray old women pushing trucks up hill
and down, long distances, trucks laden with barrels of beer, incredible loads.  In my Austrian
diary I find this:

     "In the fields I often see a woman and a cow harnessed to the plow,
     and a man driving.

     "In the public street of Marienbad to-day, I saw an old, bent,
     gray-headed woman, in harness with a dog, drawing a laden sled over
     bare dirt roads and bare pavements; and at his ease walked the
     driver, smoking his pipe, a hale fellow not thirty years old."

Five or six years ago I bought an open boat, made a kind of a canvas wagon-roof over the stern
of it to shelter me from sun and rain; hired a courier and a boatman, and made a twelve-day
floating voyage down the Rhone from Lake Bourget to Marseilles.  In my diary of that trip I
find this entry.  I was far down the Rhone then:

     "Passing St. Etienne, 2:15 P.M.  On a distant ridge inland, a tall
     openwork structure commandingly situated, with a statue of the
     Virgin standing on it.  A devout country.  All down this river,
     wherever there is a crag there is a statue of the Virgin on it.  I
     believe I have seen a hundred of them.  And yet, in many respects,
     the peasantry seem to be mere pagans, and destitute of any
     considerable degree of civilization.

     " .  .  .  .  We reached a not very promising looking village about
     4 o'clock, and I concluded to tie up for the day; munching fruit and
     fogging the hood with pipe-smoke had grown monotonous; I could not
     have the hood furled, because the floods of rain fell unceasingly.
     The tavern was on the river bank, as is the custom.  It was dull
     there, and melancholy--nothing to do but look out of the window into
     the drenching rain, and shiver; one could do that, for it was bleak
     and cold and windy, and country France furnishes no fire.  Winter
     overcoats did not help me much; they had to be supplemented with
     rugs.  The raindrops were so large and struck the river with such
     force that they knocked up the water like pebble-splashes.

     "With the exception of a very occasional woodenshod peasant, nobody
     was abroad in this bitter weather--I mean nobody of our sex.  But
     all weathers are alike to the women in these continental countries.
     To them and the other animals, life is serious; nothing interrupts
     their slavery.  Three of them were washing clothes in the river
     under the window when I arrived, and they continued at it as long as
     there was light to work by.  One was apparently thirty; another--the
     mother!--above fifty; the third--grandmother!--so old and worn and
     gray she could have passed for eighty; I took her to be that old.
     They had no waterproofs nor rubbers, of course; over their shoulders
     they wore gunnysacks--simply conductors for rivers of water; some of
     the volume reached the ground; the rest soaked in on the way.

     "At last a vigorous fellow of thirty-five arrived, dry and
     comfortable, smoking his pipe under his big umbrella in an open
     donkey-cart-husband, son, and grandson of those women!  He stood up
     in the cart, sheltering himself, and began to superintend, issuing
     his orders in a masterly tone of command, and showing temper when
     they were not obeyed swiftly enough.

     "Without complaint or murmur the drowned women patiently carried out
     the orders, lifting the immense baskets of soggy, wrung-out clothing
     into the cart and stowing them to the man's satisfaction.  There
     were six of the great baskets, and a man of mere ordinary strength
     could not have lifted any one of them.  The cart being full now, the
     Frenchman descended, still sheltered by his umbrella, entered the
     tavern, and the women went drooping homeward, trudging in the wake
     of the cart, and soon were blended with the deluge and lost to
     sight.

     "When I went down into the public room, the Frenchman had his bottle
     of wine and plate of food on a bare table black with grease, and was
     "chomping" like a horse.  He had the little religious paper which is
     in everybody's hands on the Rhone borders, and was enlightening
     himself with the histories of French saints who used to flee to the
     desert in the Middle Ages to escape the contamination of woman.  For
     two hundred years France has been sending missionaries to other
     savage lands.  To spare to the needy from poverty like hers is fine
     and true generosity."

But to get back to India--where, as my favorite poem says--

              "Every prospect pleases,
               And only man is vile."

It is because Bavaria and Austria and France have not introduced their civilization to him
yet.  But Bavaria and Austria and France are on their way.  They are coming.  They will rescue
him; they will refine the vileness out of him.

Some time during the forenoon, approaching the mountains, we changed from the regular train
to one composed of little canvas-sheltered cars that skimmed along within a foot of the ground
and seemed to be going fifty miles an hour when they were really making about twenty.  Each
car had seating capacity for half-a-dozen persons; and when the curtains were up one was substantially
out of doors, and could see everywhere, and get all the breeze, and be luxuriously comfortable.
It was not a pleasure excursion in name only, but in fact.

After a while the stopped at a little wooden coop of a station just within the curtain of the
sombre jungle, a place with a deep and dense forest of great trees and scrub and vines all
about it.  The royal Bengal tiger is in great force there, and is very bold and unconventional.
From this lonely little station a message once went to the railway manager in Calcutta: "Tiger
eating station-master on front porch; telegraph instructions."

It was there that I had my first tiger hunt.  I killed thirteen.  We were presently away again,
and the train began to climb the mountains.  In one place seven wild elephants crossed the
track, but two of them got away before I could overtake them.  The railway journey up the mountain
is forty miles, and it takes eight hours to make it.  It is so wild and interesting and exciting
and enchanting that it ought to take a week.  As for the vegetation, it is a museum.  The jungle
seemed to contain samples of every rare and curious tree and bush that we had ever seen or
heard of.  It is from that museum, I think, that the globe must have been supplied with the
trees and vines and shrubs that it holds precious.

The road is infinitely and charmingly crooked.  It goes winding in and out under lofty cliffs
that are smothered in vines and foliage, and around the edges of bottomless chasms; and all
the way one glides by files of picturesque natives, some carrying burdens up, others going
down from their work in the tea-gardens; and once there was a gaudy wedding procession, all
bright tinsel and color, and a bride, comely and girlish, who peeped out from the curtains
of her palanquin, exposing her face with that pure delight which the young and happy take in
sin for sin's own sake.

By and by we were well up in the region of the clouds, and from that breezy height we looked
down and afar over a wonderful picture--the Plains of India, stretching to the horizon, soft
and fair, level as a floor, shimmering with heat, mottled with cloud-shadows, and cloven with
shining rivers.  Immediately below us, and receding down, down, down, toward the valley, was
a shaven confusion of hilltops, with ribbony roads and paths squirming and snaking cream-yellow
all over them and about them, every curve and twist sharply distinct.

At an elevation of 6,000 feet we entered a thick cloud, and it shut out the world and kept
it shut out.  We climbed 1,000 feet higher, then began to descend, and presently got down to
Darjeeling, which is 6,000 feet above the level of the Plains.

We had passed many a mountain village on the way up, and seen some new kinds of natives, among
them many samples of the fighting Ghurkas.  They are not large men, but they are strong and
resolute.  There are no better soldiers among Britain's native troops.  And we had passed shoals
of their women climbing the forty miles of steep road from the valley to their mountain homes,
with tall baskets on their backs hitched to their foreheads by a band, and containing a freightage
weighing--I will not say how many hundreds of pounds, for the sum is unbelievable.  These were
young women, and they strode smartly along under these astonishing burdens with the air of
people out for a holiday.  I was told that a woman will carry a piano on her back all the way
up the mountain; and that more than once a woman had done it.  If these were old women I should
regard the Ghurkas as no more civilized than the Europeans. At the railway station at Darjeeling
you find plenty of cab-substitutes --open coffins, in which you sit, and are then borne on
men's shoulders up the steep roads into the town.

Up there we found a fairly comfortable hotel, the property of an indiscriminate and incoherent
landlord, who looks after nothing, but leaves everything to his army of Indian servants.  No,
he does look after the bill--to be just to him--and the tourist cannot do better than follow
his example.  I was told by a resident that the summit of Kinchinjunga is often hidden in the
clouds, and that sometimes a tourist has waited twenty-two days and then been obliged to go
away without a sight of it. And yet went not disappointed; for when he got his hotel bill he
recognized that he was now seeing the highest thing in the Himalayas. But this is probably a lie.

After lecturing I went to the Club that night, and that was a comfortable place.  It is loftily
situated, and looks out over a vast spread of scenery; from it you can see where the boundaries
of three countries come together, some thirty miles away; Thibet is one of them, Nepaul another,
and I think Herzegovina was the other.  Apparently, in every town and city in India the gentlemen
of the British civil and military service have a club; sometimes it is a palatial one, always
it is pleasant and homelike.  The hotels are not always as good as they might be, and the stranger
who has access to the Club is grateful for his privilege and knows how to value it.

Next day was Sunday.  Friends came in the gray dawn with horses, and my party rode away to
a distant point where Kinchinjunga and Mount Everest show up best, but I stayed at home for
a private view; for it was very old, and I was not acquainted with the horses, any way.  I
got a pipe and a few blankets and sat for two hours at the window, and saw the sun drive away
the veiling gray and touch up the snow-peaks one after another with pale pink splashes and
delicate washes of gold, and finally flood the whole mighty convulsion of snow-mountains with
a deluge of rich splendors.

Kinchinjunga's peak was but fitfully visible, but in the between times it was vividly clear
against the sky--away up there in the blue dome more than 28,000 feet above sea level--the
loftiest land I had ever seen, by 12,000 feet or more.  It was 45 miles away.  Mount Everest
is a thousand feet higher, but it was not a part of that sea of mountains piled up there before
me, so I did not see it; but I did not care, because I think that mountains that are as high
as that are disagreeable.

I changed from the back to the front of the house and spent the rest of the morning there,
watching the swarthy strange tribes flock by from their far homes in the Himalayas.  All ages
and both sexes were represented, and the breeds were quite new to me, though the costumes of
the Thibetans made them look a good deal like Chinamen.  The prayer-wheel was a frequent feature.
It brought me near to these people, and made them seem kinfolk of mine.  Through our preacher
we do much of our praying by proxy.  We do not whirl him around a stick, as they do, but that
is merely a detail.  The swarm swung briskly by, hour after hour, a strange and striking pageant.
It was wasted there, and it seemed a pity. It should have been sent streaming through the cities
of Europe or America, to refresh eyes weary of the pale monotonies of the circus-pageant. 
These people were bound for the bazar, with things to sell.  We went down there, later, and
saw that novel congress of the wild peoples, and plowed here and there through it, and concluded
that it would be worth coming from Calcutta to see, even if there were no Kinchinjunga and Everest.

CHAPTER LVI.

There are two times in a man's life when he should not speculate: when he
can't afford it, and when he can.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

On Monday and Tuesday at sunrise we again had fair-to-middling views of the stupendous mountains;
then, being well cooled off and refreshed, we were ready to chance the weather of the lower
world once more.

We traveled up hill by the regular train five miles to the summit, then changed to a little
canvas-canopied hand-car for the 35-mile descent.  It was the size of a sleigh, it had six
seats and was so low that it seemed to rest on the ground.  It had no engine or other propelling
power, and needed none to help it fly down those steep inclines.  It only needed a strong brake,
to modify its flight, and it had that.  There was a story of a disastrous trip made down the
mountain once in this little car by the Lieutenant-Governor of Bengal, when the car jumped
the track and threw its passengers over a precipice.  It was not true, but the story had value
for me, for it made me nervous, and nervousness wakes a person up and makes him alive and alert,
and heightens the thrill of a new and doubtful experience.  The car could really jump the track,
of course; a pebble on the track, placed there by either accident or malice, at a sharp curve
where one might strike it before the eye could discover it, could derail the car and fling
it down into India; and the fact that the lieutenant-governor had escaped was no proof that
I would have the same luck.  And standing there, looking down upon the Indian Empire from the
airy altitude of 7,000 feet, it seemed unpleasantly far, dangerously far, to be flung from
a handcar.

But after all, there was but small danger-for me.  What there was, was for Mr. Pugh, inspector
of a division of the Indian police, in whose company and protection we had come from Calcutta.
He had seen long service as an artillery officer, was less nervous than I was, and so he was
to go ahead of us in a pilot hand-car, with a Ghurka and another native; and the plan was that
when we should see his car jump over a precipice we must put on our break [sp.] and send for
another pilot. It was a good arrangement.  Also Mr. Barnard, chief engineer of the mountain-division
of the road, was to take personal charge of our car, and he had been down the mountain in it
many a time.

Everything looked safe.  Indeed, there was but one questionable detail left: the regular train
was to follow us as soon as we should start, and it might run over us.  Privately, I thought
it would.

The road fell sharply down in front of us and went corkscrewing in and out around the crags
and precipices, down, down, forever down, suggesting nothing so exactly or so uncomfortably
as a croaked toboggan slide with no end to it.  Mr. Pugh waved his flag and started, like an
arrow from a bow, and before I could get out of the car we were gone too.  I had previously
had but one sensation like the shock of that departure, and that was the gaspy shock that took
my breath away the first time that I was discharged from the summit of a toboggan slide.  But
in both instances the sensation was pleasurable--intensely so; it was a sudden and immense
exaltation, a mixed ecstasy of deadly fright and unimaginable joy.  I believe that this combination
makes the perfection of human delight.

The pilot car's flight down the mountain suggested the swoop of a swallow that is skimming
the ground, so swiftly and smoothly and gracefully it swept down the long straight reaches
and soared in and out of the bends and around the corners.  We raced after it, and seemed to
flash by the capes and crags with the speed of light; and now and then we almost overtook it--and
had hopes; but it was only playing with us; when we got near, it released its brake, make a
spring around a corner, and the next time it spun into view, a few seconds later, it looked
as small as a wheelbarrow, it was so far away.  We played with the train in the same way. 
We often got out to gather flowers or sit on a precipice and look at the scenery, then presently
we would hear a dull and growing roar, and the long coils of the train would come into sight
behind and above us; but we did not need to start till the locomotive was close down upon us
--then we soon left it far behind.  It had to stop at every station, therefore it was not an
embarrassment to us.  Our brake was a good piece of machinery; it could bring the car to a
standstill on a slope as steep as a house-roof.

The scenery was grand and varied and beautiful, and there was no hurry; we could always stop
and examine it.  There was abundance of time.  We did not need to hamper the train; if it wanted
the road, we could switch off and let it go by, then overtake it and pass it later.  We stopped
at one place to see the Gladstone Cliff, a great crag which the ages and the weather have sculptured
into a recognizable portrait of the venerable statesman.  Mr. Gladstone is a stockholder in
the road, and Nature began this portrait ten thousand years ago, with the idea of having the
compliment ready in time for the event.

We saw a banyan tree which sent down supporting stems from branches which were sixty feet above
the ground.  That is, I suppose it was a banyan; its bark resembled that of the great banyan
in the botanical gardens at Calcutta, that spider-legged thing with its wilderness of vegetable
columns.  And there were frequent glimpses of a totally leafless tree upon whose innumerable
twigs and branches a cloud of crimson butterflies had lighted--apparently.  In fact these brilliant
red butterflies were flowers, but the illusion was good.  Afterward in South Africa, I saw
another splendid effect made by red flowers.  This flower was probably called the torch-plant--should
have been so named, anyway.  It had a slender stem several feet high, and from its top stood
up a single tongue of flame, an intensely red flower of the size and shape of a small corn-cob.
The stems stood three or four feet apart all over a great hill-slope that was a mile long,
and make one think of what the Place de la Concorde would be if its myriad lights were red
instead of white and yellow.

A few miles down the mountain we stopped half an hour to see a Thibetan dramatic performance.
It was in the open air on the hillside.  The audience was composed of Thibetans, Ghurkas, and
other unusual people. The costumes of the actors were in the last degree outlandish, and the
performance was in keeping with the clothes.  To an accompaniment of barbarous noises the actors
stepped out one after another and began to spin around with immense swiftness and vigor and
violence, chanting the while, and soon the whole troupe would be spinning and chanting and
raising the dust.  They were performing an ancient and celebrated historical play, and a Chinaman
explained it to me in pidjin English as it went along.  The play was obscure enough without
the explanation; with the explanation added, it was (opake).  As a drama this ancient historical
work of art was defective, I thought, but as a wild and barbarous spectacle the representation
was beyond criticism. Far down the mountain we got out to look at a piece of remarkable loop-engineering--a
spiral where the road curves upon itself with such abruptness that when the regular train came
down and entered the loop, we stood over it and saw the locomotive disappear under our bridge,
then in a few moments appear again, chasing its own tail; and we saw it gain on it, overtake
it, draw ahead past the rear cars, and run a race with that end of the train.  It was like
a snake swallowing itself.

Half-way down the mountain we stopped about an hour at Mr. Barnard's house for refreshments,
and while we were sitting on the veranda looking at the distant panorama of hills through a
gap in the forest, we came very near seeing a leopard kill a calf.--[It killed it the day before.]
--It is a wild place and lovely.  From the woods all about came the songs of birds,--among
them the contributions of a couple of birds which I was not then acquainted with: the brain-fever
bird and the coppersmith.  The song of the brain-fever demon starts on a low but steadily rising
key, and is a spiral twist which augments in intensity and severity with each added spiral,
growing sharper and sharper, and more and more painful, more and more agonizing, more and more
maddening, intolerable, unendurable, as it bores deeper and deeper and deeper into the listener's
brain, until at last the brain fever comes as a relief and the man dies. I am bringing some
of these birds home to America.  They will be a great curiosity there, and it is believed that
in our climate they will multiply like rabbits.

The coppersmith bird's note at a certain distance away has the ring of a sledge on granite;
at a certain other distance the hammering has a more metallic ring, and you might think that
the bird was mending a copper kettle; at another distance it has a more woodeny thump, but
it is a thump that is full of energy, and sounds just like starting a bung.  So he is a hard
bird to name with a single name; he is a stone-breaker, coppersmith, and bung-starter, and
even then he is not completely named, for when he is close by you find that there is a soft,
deep, melodious quality in his thump, and for that no satisfying name occurs to you.  You will
not mind his other notes, but when he camps near enough for you to hear that one, you presently
find that his measured and monotonous repetition of it is beginning to disturb you; next it
will weary you, soon it will distress you, and before long each thump will hurt your head;
if this goes on, you will lose your mind with the pain and misery of it, and go crazy.  I am
bringing some of these birds home to America. There is nothing like them there.  They will
be a great surprise, and it is said that in a climate like ours they will surpass expectation
for fecundity.

I am bringing some nightingales, too, and some cue-owls.  I got them in Italy.  The song of
the nightingale is the deadliest known to ornithology.  That demoniacal shriek can kill at
thirty yards.  The note of the cue-owl is infinitely soft and sweet--soft and sweet as the
whisper of a flute.  But penetrating--oh, beyond belief; it can bore through boiler-iron. 
It is a lingering note, and comes in triplets, on the one unchanging key: hoo-o-o, hoo-o-o,
hoo-o-o; then a silence of fifteen seconds, then the triplet again; and so on, all night. 
At first it is divine; then less so; then trying; then distressing; then excruciating; then
agonizing, and at the end of two hours the listener is a maniac.

And so, presently we took to the hand-car and went flying down the mountain again; flying and
stopping, flying and stopping, till at last we were in the plain once more and stowed for Calcutta
in the regular train.  It has no fault, no blemish, no lack, except that there are only thirty-five
miles of it instead of five hundred.

CHAPTER LVII.

She was not quite what you would call refined.  She was not quite what
you would call unrefined.  She was the kind of person that keeps a
parrot.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.  Nothing seems to have been forgotten, nothing over
looked.  Always, when you think you have come to the end of her
tremendous specialties and have finished banging tags upon her as the
Land of the Thug, the Land of the Plague, the Land of Famine, the Land of
Giant Illusions, the Land of Stupendous Mountains, and so forth, another
specialty crops up and another tag is required.  I have been overlooking
the fact that India is by an unapproachable supremacy--the Land of
Murderous Wild Creatures.  Perhaps it will be simplest to throw away the
tags and generalize her with one all-comprehensive name, as the Land of
Wonders.

For many years the British Indian Government has been trying to destroy the murderous wild
creatures, and has spent a great deal of money in the effort.  The annual official returns
show that the undertaking is a difficult one.

These returns exhibit a curious annual uniformity in results; the sort of uniformity which
you find in the annual output of suicides in the world's capitals, and the proportions of deaths
by this, that, and the other disease.  You can always come close to foretelling how many suicides
will occur in Paris, London, and New York, next year, and also how many deaths will result
from cancer, consumption, dog-bite, falling out of the window, getting run over by cabs, etc.,
if you know the statistics of those matters for the present year.  In the same way, with one
year's Indian statistics before you, you can guess closely at how many people were killed in
that Empire by tigers during the previous year, and the year before that, and the year before
that, and at how many were killed in each of those years by bears, how many by wolves, and
how many by snakes; and you can also guess closely at how many people are going to be killed
each year for the coming five years by each of those agencies. You can also guess closely at
how many of each agency the government is going to kill each year for the next five years.

I have before me statistics covering a period of six consecutive years. By these, I know that
in India the tiger kills something over 800 persons every year, and that the government responds
by killing about double as many tigers every year.  In four of the six years referred to, the
tiger got 800 odd; in one of the remaining two years he got only 700, but in the other remaining
year he made his average good by scoring 917.  He is always sure of his average.  Anyone who
bets that the tiger will kill 2,400 people in India in any three consecutive years has invested
his money in a certainty; anyone who bets that he will kill 2,600 in any three consecutive
years, is absolutely sure to lose.

As strikingly uniform as are the statistics of suicide, they are not any more so than are those
of the tiger's annual output of slaughtered human beings in India.  The government's work is
quite uniform, too; it about doubles the tiger's average.  In six years the tiger killed 5,000
persons, minus 50; in the same six years 10,000 tigers were killed, minus 400.

The wolf kills nearly as many people as the tiger--700 a year to the tiger's 800 odd--but while
he is doing it, more than 5,000 of his tribe fall.

The leopard kills an average of 230 people per year, but loses 3,300 of his own mess while
he is doing it.

The bear kills 100 people per year at a cost of 1,250 of his own tribe.

The tiger, as the figures show, makes a very handsome fight against man. But it is nothing
to the elephant's fight.  The king of beasts, the lord of the jungle, loses four of his mess
per year, but he kills forty--five persons to make up for it.

But when it comes to killing cattle, the lord of the jungle is not interested.  He kills but
100 in six years--horses of hunters, no doubt --but in the same six the tiger kills more than
84,000, the leopard 100,000, the bear 4,000, the wolf 70,000, the hyena more than 13,000, other
wild beasts 27,000, and the snakes 19,000, a grand total of more than 300,000; an average of
50,000 head per year.

In response, the government kills, in the six years, a total of 3,201,232 wild beasts and snakes.
Ten for one.

It will be perceived that the snakes are not much interested in cattle; they kill only 3,000
odd per year.  The snakes are much more interested in man.  India swarms with deadly snakes.
At the head of the list is the cobra, the deadliest known to the world, a snake whose bite
kills where the rattlesnake's bite merely entertains.

In India, the annual man-killings by snakes are as uniform, as regular, and as forecastable
as are the tiger-average and the suicide-average. Anyone who bets that in India, in any three
consecutive years the snakes will kill 49,500 persons, will win his bet; and anyone who bets
that in India in any three consecutive years, the snakes will kill 53,500 persons, will lose
his bet.  In India the snakes kill 17,000 people a year; they hardly ever fall short of it;
they as seldom exceed it.  An insurance actuary could take the Indian census tables and the
government's snake tables and tell you within sixpence how much it would be worth to insure
a man against death by snake-bite there.  If I had a dollar for every person killed per year
in India, I would rather have it than any other property, as it is the only property in the
world not subject to shrinkage.

I should like to have a royalty on the government-end of the snake business, too, and am in
London now trying to get it; but when I get it it is not going to be as regular an income as
the other will be if I get that; I have applied for it.  The snakes transact their end of the
business in a more orderly and systematic way than the government transacts its end of it,
because the snakes have had a long experience and know all about the traffic.  You can make
sure that the government will never kill fewer than 110,000 snakes in a year, and that it will
newer quite reach 300,000 too much room for oscillation; good speculative stock, to bear or
bull, and buy and sell long and short, and all that kind of thing, but not eligible for investment
like the other.  The man that speculates in the government's snake crop wants to go carefully.
I would not advise a man to buy a single crop at all--I mean a crop of futures for the possible
wobble is something quite extraordinary.  If he can buy six future crops in a bunch, seller
to deliver 1,500,000 altogether, that is another matter.  I do not know what snakes are worth
now, but I know what they would be worth then, for the statistics show that the seller could
not come within 427,000 of carrying out his contract.  However, I think that a person who speculates
in snakes is a fool, anyway.  He always regrets it afterwards.

To finish the statistics.  In six years the wild beasts kill 20,000 persons, and the snakes
kill 103,000.  In the same six the government kills 1,073,546 snakes.  Plenty left.

There are narrow escapes in India.  In the very jungle where I killed sixteen tigers and all
those elephants, a cobra bit me but it got well; everyone was surprised.  This could not happen
twice in ten years, perhaps.  Usually death would result in fifteen minutes.

