For instance one of these series is "On the Coast", which includes "Saved by the Lifeboat".

"The Red Man's Revenge" is very authoritatively written, because its setting is the Red River,
where Ballantyne had spent all those years in his youth.  As so often with Ballantyne's books
there are the threads of two stories running throughout.  One of these, occupying the last
two-thirds of the book, concerns the Red River flood of May 1826, when the river rose fourteen
feet over a largely level plain, causing much loss and annoyance to the settlers in that region,
though the loss of only one life.

The other thread concerns the kidnapping of a young white child in revenge for a fancied insult
offered to a Red Indian, Petanawaquat. They are pursued by the boy's older brother and some
other settlers, but not found.  They return only when Petanawaquat has a change of heart, after
meditating some time on the fact that Jesus Christ gave up His life to save the souls of those
who considered themselves His enemies.

There are various acutely observed actions, such as a buffalo hunt, various fights with bears,
the tracking methods used by the pursuers, foiled only eventually when there is a prairie fire.
We learn at this point what to do when a prairie fire is coming straight at you, and there
appears to be no escape.

There are various canoeing incidents, and indeed much of the action could not occur without
the canoe.

Re-created as an e-Text by Nick Hodson, August 2003.

THE RED MAN'S REVENGE, BY R.M. BALLANTYNE.

CHAPTER ONE.

A TALE OF THE RED RIVER FLOOD.

OPENS THE BALL.

If ever there was a man who possessed a gem in the form of a daughter of nineteen, that man
was Samuel Ravenshaw; and if ever there was a girl who owned a bluff, jovial, fiery, hot-tempered,
irascible old father, that girl was Elsie Ravenshaw.

Although a gem, Elsie was exceedingly imperfect.  Had she been the reverse she would not have
been worth writing about.

Old Ravenshaw, as his familiars styled him, was a settler, if we may use such a term in reference
to one who was, perhaps, among the most unsettled of men.  He had settled with his family on
the banks of the Red River.  The colony on that river is now one of the frontier towns of Canada.
At the time we write of, it was a mere oasis in the desert, not even an offshoot of civilisation,
for it owed its existence chiefly to the fact that retiring servants of the Hudson's Bay Fur
Company congregated there to spend the evening of life, far beyond the Canadian boundary, in
the heart of that great wilderness where they had spent their working days, and on the borders
of that grand prairie where the red man and the buffalo roamed at will, and the conventionalities
of civilised life troubled them not.

To this haven of rest Samuel Ravenshaw had retired, after spending an active life in the service
of the fur-traders, somewhat stiffened in the joints by age and a rough career, and a good
deal soured in disposition because of promotion having, as he thought, been too long deferred.

Besides Elsie, old Ravenshaw possessed some other gems of inferior lustre.  His wife Maggie,
a stout, well-favoured lady, with an insufficient intellect and unbounded good humour, was
of considerable intrinsic value, but highly unpolished.  His second daughter, Cora, was a thin
slip of sixteen years, like her mother in some respects--pretty, attractive, and disposed to
take life easily.  His eldest son, Victor, a well-grown lad of fourteen, was a rough diamond,
if a diamond at all, with a soul centred on sport.  His second son, Anthony, between five and
six, was large and robust, like his father.  Not having been polished at that time, it is hard
to say what sort of gem Tony was.  When engaged in mischief--his besetting foible--his eyes
shone like carbuncles with unholy light.  He was the plague of the family.  Of course, therefore,
he was the beloved of his parents.

Such were the chief inmates of Willow Creek, as old Ravenshaw styled his house and property.

It was midwinter.  The owner of Willow Creek stood at his parlour window, smoking and gazing.
There was not much to look at, for snow had overwhelmed and buried the landscape, fringed every
twig of the willows, and obliterated the frozen river.

Elsie was seated by the stove, embroidering a pair of moccasins.

"Victor is bringing down some of the lads to shoot to-day, father," she said, casting a furtive
glance at her sire.

"Humph! that boy does nothing but shoot," growled the old man, who was a giant in body if not
in spirit.  "Who all is he bringing?"

"There's John Flett, and David Mowat, and Sam Hayes, and Herr Winklemann, and Ian Macdonald,
and Louis Lambert--all the best shots, I suppose," said Elsie, bending over her work.

"The best shots!" cried Mr Ravenshaw, turning from the window with a sarcastic laugh.  "Louis
Lambert, indeed, and Winklemann are crack shots, and John Flett is not bad, but the others
are poor hands.  Mowat can only shoot straight with a crooked gun, and as for that half-cracked
schoolmaster, Jan Macdonald, he would miss a barn door at fifty paces unless he were to shut
his eyes and fire at random, in which case he'd have some chance--"

"Here they is; the shooters is comin'.  Hooray!" shouted Master Anthony Ravenshaw, as he burst
into the room with a scalping-knife in one hand and a wooden gun in the other.  "An' I's goin'
to shoot too, daddy!"

"So you are, Tony, my boy!" cried the old trader, catching up the pride of his heart in his
strong arms and tossing him towards the ceiling. "You shall shoot before long with a real gun."

Tony knocked the pipe out of his father's mouth, and was proceeding to operate on his half-bald
head with the scalping-knife, when Cora, who entered the room at the moment, sprang forward
and wrenched the weapon from his grasp.

"We'll give them dinner after the shooting is over, shan't we, father?" asked Cora.

"Of course, my dear, of course," replied the hospitable old gentleman, giving the pride of
his heart a sounding kiss as he put him down.  "Set your mother to work on a pie, and get Miss
Trim to help you with a lot of those cakes you make so famously."

As he spoke there was a sudden clattering in the porch.  The young men were taking off their
snow-shoes and stamping the snow from off their leggings and moccasined feet.

"Here we are, father!" cried a bright, sturdy youth, as he ushered in his followers.  "Of course
Elsie has prepared you for our sudden invasion.  The fact is that we got up the match on the
spur of the moment, because I found that Ian had a holiday."

"No explanation required, Victor.  Glad to see you all, boys.  Sit down," said Mr Ravenshaw,
shaking hands all round.

The youths who were thus heartily welcomed presented a fine manly appearance. Since
He saw our guide and saw our innocent characters, the others also moved closer, and we moved
with mutual congratulation over at each other. The wind was sharp and it began to snow a little.
Now, it went downhill very rough and wild rose, through an old spruce forest that had taken root on
rock slabs of gneiss. From Wind tore each other over here the rotten trunks with their roots,
and at the same time broken loose rocks were sharply mixed. At last we came into the valley
where the Trientfluss arises from a glacier, had the small village of Trent close to your right and
followed the valley through a fairly conventional way, until we finally here against Six Men in
Martigny Once on flat ground Wallis are where we want to rest on other things to us.

Martigny, 6 Nov. 1779th

Evening.

As our journey goes on continuously, were bound up a sheet of my conversation with Them to another's,
and I hardly the end of our walks Savoy and folded aside down, I take yet another andres paper
to familiarize you with the knowledge of what we initially intend. At night we came into a country,
after which our curiosity long cocked. We still have nothing but the tops of mountains, the valley
of two Pages enclose, seen in the dusk. We are crawling in the inn, see the window move the
clouds, it is us so secretly and so well that we have a roof, as children, from chairs, carpets
and a cabin Tischblaettern the stove and talked into making it, it was raining and snowing outside,
for pleasant imaginary Showers in their we in the autumn night in a strange unknown land.
Off the Map we know that we are all in the angle of an elbow from where the smaller part of
the Valais, from approximately noon to midnight, the Rhone down on Lake Geneva connects, but
the other, and longest, from west to east, up the Rhone up to their origin, the Furka passes.
The Valais to travel through even makes us a pleasant View, only as we come up wider acclaim, some
worry. First place is fixed, we want to see the lower part to go tomorrow to St. Maurice, where the
friend who with are the horses of the Pays de Vaud gone, is arrived. Tomorrow night remember
us to be back here the day after tomorrow, and will be the country up. If, after the advice
of the Mr de Saussure goes, we make the way up to the Furka on horseback, then back to Brzeg
back over the mountain Simple, where is a good passage in any weather, over Domo d'Ossola,
Lake Maggiore, over Bellinzona, and then the Gotthard up. The way to and quite well for his
horse practicabel. Most of all we went over the Furka to the Gotthard, for brevity and because
the tail through the provinces of Italy from the beginning not in our plan was, but where out
with the horses? which is not about the Furka can drag, where perhaps even already blocked the
pedestrian path through snow. We are quite calm about it and hope from moment to moment as
far from the circumstances to take even good advice. Odd as this inn is a maid, at a has great
manners all the stupidity is a sensitive ornamental German Fraeulein. It was a great laughter, as
we look at the tired feet with red wine and bran, by the advice bathed our guide, and they accept
it dry of prostitute could.

After dinner.

At dinner we have not given us very relaxed and hope that sleep will taste better.

THE 7TH.

St. Maurice,

noon.

Under way is my way of enjoying the beautiful places that I look at
my absent Friends brought alternately call and tell me about them
entertain the delicious items.

I come to an inn, so relax, rueckerinnern me and to write one, though sometimes overly stressed
out soul rather coincide in themselves and with half a sleep recovered.

This morning we went away in the twilight of Martigny, a fresh north wind was with the daily
life, we passed an old castle that stands on the corner where the two arms of a Y make Valais.
The valley is narrow and is on both sides of manifold Bergen decided to be together again of
its own, exalted lovely character. We came to where the Trientstrom penetrates to close and just
Felsenwaende around in the valley that it is doubtful whether it produces not come under the
rock. DC will be on the old vor'm year by the river damaged bridge, not far from what tremendous
Felsstuecke short have swept up time from the mountains down the road. This group together would
be a extremely nice pictures. Not far away there is a new wooden bridge built and a piece of land
on the other road taken. We knew that we are the famous Waterfall of piss vache approached, and wanted
a sunny view, what are the changing Clouds made some hope. On the way we looked at the many granite
and Gneissstuecke, under its diversity but seemed to be all one origin. At last we entered front
of the waterfall that deserves its fame from many others. shoots at a considerable height
from a narrow rock crevice, a strong stream flaming down into a basin, where he worked in dust and
foam far and wide in the wind hang around. The sun came out and made the sight double life. Dust
down in the water you have a rainbow, and again as we pass, very close to himself. If you step
up further, you can still see a nicer appearance. The airy foaming waves of the upper beam when
she absconds gischend and the lines touch existeth find in our eyes, the rainbow color, the
flames without the aneinanderhaengende shape of an arc would appear, and so is in the place always
changing fiery movement. We climbed around turn, sat down there and wished all Good days and
hours of life to be able to accommodate it. Again, as so often on this trip, we felt that
large objects in the temporarily not perceived and can be enjoyed. We came to a village where
soldiers were funny, and drank there new wine that had been set before us yesterday as well.
He looks like soapy water, but I like to drink, rather than their acid-year and two years in. If you
thirsty is given, all things well. We saw St. Maurice from a distance as it is just at a place
zusammendrueckt where the valley into a yoke. Links about the city we saw a Rock wall, a small
church angeflickt with a hermitage, where we climb still . Think Here at the inn we found
a note from friends, to Bex, three quarters of an hour is left of here. We have sent him a
messenger. The count went for a walk, vorwaerts see the area yet, and I will eat a bite and then
after the famous bridge and go to the pass.

To one.

I'm back from the spot where you can sit days, draw, sneak around, without getting tired and could
have a conversation with himself. If I someone a should advise way into the Valais, were it
that of Lake Geneva and the Rhone up. I am went on the road to Bex to cross the big bridge,
where one's in the same area Berner occurs. The Rhone flows down the valley and there is more
to the lake to something. As I turned around, I saw the rocks near St. Maurice press together,
and about the Rhone, which rushes down through, bold in a high arc light, a narrow bridge blown
over. The manifold bay and towers of a castle close like Over There to, and with a single
gate of the entrance is blocked into the Valais. I went over the Bridge to St. Maurice, who claim
that its search before a Gesichtspunct I at Hubern 've seen drawn and found approximately.

The
count has come back, he had gone to the horses in, and has on its Brown made ahead. He says
the bridge was built so nice and light that it looked as if a horse
fugitive translated a ditch.

The friend is also satisfied of his journey. He led the way down her back to Lake Geneva in
a few days, Bex, and a general joy to see again.

Martigny, against nine.

We are ridden deep into the night, and Herwig has given us longer
than seemed way out, where we have been lured from one object to another.

I also have all descriptions and reflections for today heartily sick, but I have two beautiful
still want fast in the Memory set. On the piss vache we were in deep twilight over again. The Mountains,
the valley and even the skies were dark and dim. Graulich and with quiet Noise, saw the shooting
down of electricity from all other objects are different, it was observed almost no movement.
It had become darker and darker. Suddenly we saw the top of a very high cliff, completely melted
like ore in the furnace, annealing and red Steam rising from it. This strange phenomenon had the
evening sun, the snow and lit up like the rising mist.

Sion, 8 Nov. after three clock.

We have done this morning a false ride and versaeumet us at least
three hours.

We rode away before the day of Martigny to at times to be in Sion. The weather was extremely
nice, except that the sun, because of their inferior status, was blocked by the mountains, the Path we
rode to certify, and the sight of the beautiful valley Wallis made some good and lively mind
busy. We had ascended for three hours the road, the Rhone us on the left hand, ridden, and we saw
Sion lie before us and were looking forward to the soon to organizing Lunch when we were ready
to take the bridge we had to pass. It remained us, according to the people who worked here, nothing left
but either a small foot path that went on the rocks, to vote, or an hour back to back ride
and then about some other bridges of the Rhone to go. We chose the latter challenge and let
us no bad humor, but attributed that accident again Account of a good spirit, with us the most
beautiful holiday season through a so-interesting Country wanted to lead a walk. The Rhone power
at all in this narrow country evil Haendel.

We had to get to the other bridges, and a half hours through the sandy
Spots to ride, they wont Change customer by floods very often, and
the only to use alder and Weidengebueschen are.

Finally we arrived at the bridges, the very angry fluctuating, long and are set by false Klueppeln
together. We had our individual Horses, not without anxiety that lead about it. Now it was on
the left side of the Valais again according to Sion. The road itself was the most part, poor and
stony, but showed us all Step, a landscape that of a Gemaehldes had been more worthy. In particular
he led us to a lock up, where down was one of the most beautiful views, on which I I saw the whole
way. The next shot mountains on both sides with layers in the earth, and rejuvenated by its
shape the area as it in perspective. The entire width of the Valais from mountain to mountain
was easy to look at us, the Rhone, came with their manifold bending and bush plants, in villages,
cultivated fields and hills flowed past, in the distance we saw the castle of Sion and the hills
on the began to rise behind it, was the last area as a Amphitheaterbogen by a range of snow mountains
closed, the whole thing as the rest of the high rocky The way was that we had to ride so enjoyable,
we found the still fairly green Reblaube him covered. The population, which every inch is precious
soil, planting their Vinyard to equal their walls, their goods out of the way divorce and they
grow to extraordinary Thickness and are drawn by means of posts and slats across the path so that
it almost aneinanderhaengende arbor forms. In the lower part was mostly meadow wax, but found
We also, as we approached Sion, some field crops. Against this city, the area by alternating hills
extremely manifold, and we wished for a longer time to be able to enjoy the stay. But interrupts
the ugliness of the cities and the People who like pleasant sensations, which excites the landscape, very
much. The hideous Goiters have made me totally uebles humor. Our horses we are allowed to come
today nothing unreasonable demand, and think on that account to the foot to go to Seyters.
Here in Sion the inn loathsome, and the city has an anti-black appearance.

Seyters, 8 Nov. night.

As we walked away with burglars first evening of Sion, we are at night under a bright The stars
arrived. We have lost some nice views about it, mark I might. We particularly wanted the castle
tour trillion, which is located at Sion, ascended to have, it must
be from there a very extremely nice view.

A messenger whom we took, brought us safely through some bad patches
where the water had leaked.

Soon reached we had the height and the Rhone are right below us. With various astronomical Talks,
we shortened the way, and are in good people who will do their best to entertain us, eingekehret.
When you think back, seems like a lived-through day because of the many belongings, almost
like a week ago. I am very sorry to begins , Do I not have the time and skill, the most remarkable places
even line by line to draw, and it is always better than any description for an absentee.

Seyters, the 9th.

Before we start, I can offer you a good morning. The count will be left with me to go into the
mountains after the Leukerbad, the friend, however, expect the horses here and we meet again tomorrow
in Leuk.

Leukerbad, the 9th, at the foot of Gemmiberges.

In a small boarded house, where we received very good people at all
friendly been, we sit in a narrow, low room, and I want to see how
much of communicate to today's very interesting tour of words is.
increased from Seyters us this morning for three hours up a mountain,
after previously stones and gravel deposits, Lawns and gardens, for
the puny little by little, when it is still possible if necessary,
of the people is restored and after a few generations, perhaps swept
up again be.

We had a gray day, with alternating sun looks.

It is not to describe manifold as also the Valais is again, with every moment and turn changed
the landscape. Everything seems to lie very close together, and it is still by large canyons
and mountains separated. We have not had the most open Wallis valley right next to us had,
when suddenly a beautiful sight aufthat into the mountains before us.

I need to make clearer to describe what I want, something of the geographical Location of the area,
where we are saying. We were now three hours upwards in the enormous mountain rose, can part of the
Valais Bern. It's just the floor of Bergen, in one of the Fort from Lake Geneva to running on
the Gotthard, and on which the Berne have taken root area, the large ice and snow masses. Here
are the top and bottom relative Words of the moment. I say, on an area below me is a village and
it is this Total area is perhaps back to a precipice, which is much
higher than my circumstances to her.

We saw as we came around a corner and rested at a holy stick, among us at the end of a beautiful
green mat, besides an enormous gorge, the village of indene with {ed -???}.

Middle of the countryside are. Over There went back over the river meadows and pine forests
up, just behind the village a large gap of rock rose into the air, the mountains from the left
side joined up to us to put the right of their backs further away, so that the little village
as it were, with its white church, as in Brennpunct of so much converging rocks and crevices
stood. The road to indene is in the steep Hewn rock wall, the amphitheater expected this from
the left side, in Hing includes marriages. It is this not a dangerous but very terribly handsome
way.

He goes on the layers of a sheer rock wall down the right side with a small plank separately from the
abyss.

A guy who got a mule down next to us summed up his beast when it dangerous to Make came bei'm
tails, to give him some Help there, even if it is too steep right down had in the rock inside.
At last we arrived in Inden, and as our well known messenger was, it was easy for us to obtain from
a willing woman a good glass of red wine and bread, because they actually have in this area
no Wirthshaeuser. Now it was the high canyon Inden up behind where we looked for soon the so
terribly described Gemmiberg before us, and Leukerbad in his foot,
between the other high, rough and covered with snow are mountains,
as if in a cupped hand found.

It was when we arrived about three; Our guide managed neighborhood soon. It is not a guesthouse here,
but all people are pretty much because of all the bathers who come here, set up. Our hostess lies
in the weeks since yesterday, and her husband makes a very old mother and the maid like the
glory of the house. We ordered something to eat and let us the warm springs That show come out in
different places very strong out of the ground and edged cleanly are. In addition to the village
to the mountains will still be some stronger. It has this Water is not the least bright sulfurous
smell is, where it swells and where it flows through not the least Oker nor anything earthly
or Mineral to, but lets like any other pure water, no trace back. It is when it comes out of the
ground, very famous for its hot and good forces. We had time to take a walk against the foot of
the Gemmi, which seemed to us to be very close. I must again note that so often happened that
when one is surrounded by mountains, an All items so very close to appear. We had overthrown
a strong down over hours Felsstuecke and gravel washed up between them to walk up it until we
meet at the foot of the tremendous Gemmibergs where the road goeth on steep cliffs were up. It
is this the transition into the Bernese region, where all the sick who must be in a sedan chair
down . Let Was called 'We're taking the year to the more probable way would tomorrow Attempt
be made to climb this mountain so remarkable: so but we will look at the mere opinion must be satisfied
for the present occasion. As we walked back, we saw the Gebraeude the clouds, which is in the
current season in these areas extremely interesting. About the beautiful weather we have forgotten
that we live in November, it is also, as we were in Bern's predicted that this autumn is very
pleasant. The early evenings snow and clouds proclaim remember but sometimes that we delve into
the season of are. The wonderful labor, she seduced this evening was extraordinarily beautiful.
When we came back from the foot of Gemmiberges, we looked up from the gorge of indene, light
fog clouds move with great rapidity. They changed soon backward soon forward, and finally got
the ascending Leukerbad so close that we saw clearly we had to double our steps in order not
wrapped when it gets night in clouds be. We were also happy at home, and while I write down
this, put really quite seriously in the clouds a little like snow from each other. It is This
the first that we have and when we are on our journey from yesterday's warm Martinach to Sion, think
back to the still fairly leafy Rebengelaender, a very fast Variety. I stepped in the door,
I watched the nature of the clouds for a while, this is beautiful beyond description.

Actually it is not night, but they cover the sky turns dark and make. The deep gorges they come
up to them to the highest peaks of the mountains range, from this they seem to be attracted
to thicken and gripped by the cold in fall down form of snow. It is an inexpressible loneliness
up here, in so great a height to still be in a well, where only forward through the depths a
footpath also suspected.
  The bed of the
creek, near to the point where it joined the Red River, was a favourite resort of Master Tony.
Thither he went that same afternoon to play.

Having observed the child's habits, Petawanaquat paddled his canoe to the same point and hid
it and himself among the overhanging bushes of the creek.  In the course of his gambols Tony
approached the place.  One stroke of the paddle sent the light birch-bark canoe like an arrow
across the stream.  The Indian sprang on shore.  Tony gave him one scared look and was about
to utter an appalling yell, when a red hand covered his mouth and another red hand half throttled
him.

Petawanaquat bundled the poor child into the bottom of his canoe, wrapped a leather coat round
his head, spread a buffalo robe over him, gave him a smart rap on the head to keep him quiet,
and paddled easily out into the stream.  Steadily, but not too swiftly, he went down the river,
down the rapids, and past the Indian settlement without attracting particular notice.  Once
the buffalo robe moved; the paddle descended on it with a sounding whack, and it did not move
again. Before night closed, the Indian was paddling over the broad bosom of Lake Winnipeg.

Of course, Tony was soon missed; his haunts were well known; Miss Trim traced his footprints
to the place where he had been seized, saw evidences of the struggle, the nature of which she
correctly guessed, and came shrieking back to the house, where she went off into hysterics,
and was unable to tell anything about the matter.

Fortunately, Victor was there; he also traced the footsteps.  Instead of returning home he
ran straight to the school-house, which he reached out of breath.

"Come, Ian, come!" he gasped.  "Tony's been carried off--Petawanaquat! Bring your canoe and
gun; all the ammunition you can lay hands on!"

Ian asked for no explanations; he ran into the house, shouldered a small bag of pemmican, gave
his gun and ammunition to Victor, told his assistant to keep the school going till his return,
and ran with his friend down to the river, where his own birch canoe lay on the bank.

A few minutes sufficed to launch it.  Both Ian and Victor were expert canoe-men.  Straining
their powers to the utmost, they were soon far down the Red River, in hot pursuit of the fugitive.

CHAPTER THREE.

THE PURSUIT BEGINS.

There is something delightfully exhilarating in a chase, whether it be after man or beast.
How the blood careers!  How the nerves tingle!  But you know all about it, reader.  We have
said sufficient.

There was enough of righteous indignation in Victor's bosom to have consumed Petawanaquat,
and ground enough to justify the fiercest resolves.  Was not the kidnapper a redskin--a low,
mean, contemptible savage?  Was not the kidnapped one his brother--his "own" brother?  And
such a brother!  One of a thousand, with mischief enough in him, if rightly directed, to make
half a dozen ordinary men!  The nature of the spirit which animated Victor was obvious on his
compressed lips, his frowning brows, his gleaming eyes.  The strength of his muscles was indicated
by the foam that fled from his paddle.

Ian Macdonald was not less excited, but more under self-control than his friend.  There was
a fixed look in his plain but pleasant face, and a tremendous sweep in his long arms as he
plied the paddle, that told of unfathomed energy.  The canoe being a mere egg-shell, leaped
forward at each quick stroke "like a thing of life."

There was no time to lose.  They knew that, for the Indian had probably got a good start of
them, and, being a powerful man, animated by the certainty of pursuit sooner or later, would
not only put his strength but his endurance to the test.  If they were to overtake him it must
be by superhuman exertion.  Lake Winnipeg was twenty miles off.  They must catch up the Indian
before he reached it, as otherwise it would be impossible to tell in which direction he had gone.

They did not pause to make inquiries of the settlers on the banks by the way, but they hailed
several canoes, whose occupants said they had seen the Indian going quietly down stream some
hours before--alone in his canoe!

"Never mind, Vic, push on," said Ian; "of course he would make Tony lie flat down."

The end of the settlement was passed, and they swept on into the wilderness beyond.  Warming
to their work, they continued to paddle hour after hour--steadily, persistently, with clockwork
regularity of stroke, but never decreasing force.  To save time they, as it were, cut off corners
at the river-bends, and just shaved the points as they went by.

"Have a care, Ian!" exclaimed Victor, at one of these places, as his paddle touched the bottom.
"We don't draw much water, to be sure, but a big stone might--hah!"

A roar of dismay burst from the youth and his companion as the canoe rasped over a stone.

We have said that the birch canoe was an egg-shell.  The word is scarcely figurative.  The
slightest touch over a stone has a tendency to rip the bark of such a slender craft, or break
off the resinous gum with which the seams are pitched.  Water began to pour in.

"Too bad!" exclaimed Victor, flinging his paddle ashore, as he stepped over the side into water
not much above his ankles, and pulled the canoe slowly to land.

"An illustration of the proverb, `The more haste the less speed,'" sighed Ian, as he stepped
into the water and assisted in lifting the canoe tenderly to dry ground.

"Oh, it's all very well for you to take it philosophically, but you know our chance is gone.
If it was your brother we were after you wouldn't be so cool."

"He is Elsie's brother," replied Ian, "and that makes me quite as keen as if he were my own,
besides keeping me cool.  Come, Vic, don't be cross, but light the fire and get out the gum."

While he spoke Ian was actively untying a bundle which contained awls and wattape, a small
pliable root, with which to repair the injury.  The gum had to be melted, so that Victor found
some relief to his feelings in kindling a fire.  The break was not a bad one.  With nimble
fingers Ian sewed a patch of bark over it.  While that was being done, Victor struck a light
with flint and steel, and soon had a blazing firebrand ready.

"Hand it here, Vic," said Ian.

He covered the stitches with melted gum, blew the charcoal red-hot, passed it here and there
over the old seams where they exhibited signs of leakage, and in little more than half an hour
had the canoe as tight as a bottle.  Once more they embarked and drove her like an arrow down
stream.

But precious time had been lost, and it was dark when they passed from the river and rested
on the bosom of the mighty fresh-water sea.

"It's of no use going on without knowing which shore the redskin has followed," said Ian, as
he suddenly ceased work and rested his paddle on the gunwale.

"It's of no use to remain where we are," replied the impatient Victor, looking back at his comrade.

"Yes, it is," returned Ian, "the moon will rise in an hour or so and enable us to make observations;
meanwhile we can rest.  Sooner or later we shall be compelled to rest.  It will be a wise economy
of time to do so now when nothing else can be done."

Victor was so tired and sleepy by that time that he could scarcely reply.  Ian laughed quietly,
and shoved the canoe among some reeds, where it lay on a soft bed.  At the same time he advised
his companion to go to sleep without delay.

More than half asleep already, he obeyed in silence, waded to the shore, and sat down on a
bank to take off his moccasins.  In this position and act he fell asleep.

"Hallo!" exclaimed Ian, coming up with the paddles and pemmican bag; "too soon, Vic, too soon,
lad," (he tumbled him over on the bank); "come, one mouthful of grub first, then off with the
moccasins, and down we go."

Victor picked himself up with a yawn.  On ordinary occasions a backwoodsman pays some little
attention to the comforts of his encampment, but our heroes were in no condition to mind such
trifles. They pulled off their wet moccasins, indeed, and put on dry ones, but having done
that they merely groped in the dark for the flattest piece of ground in the neighbourhood,
then each rolled himself in his blanket and lay, or rather fell, down.

"Hah!" gasped Victor.

"Wa's wrong?" sighed Ian faintly.

"Put m' shoulder 'n a puddle, 'at's all," lisped Victor.

"T'ke't out o' the purl, then--oh!" groaned Ian.

"W'as 'e marrer now, eh?" sighed Victor.

"On'y a big stone i' m' ribs."

"Shove't out o' y'r ribs 'en an' 'old y'r tongue."

Profound slumber stopped the conversation at this point, and the frogs that croaked and whistled
in the swamps had it all to themselves.

Deep tranquillity reigned on the shores of Lake Winnipeg during the midnight hours, for the
voices of the frogs served rather to accent than to disturb the calm.  Stars twinkled at their
reflections in the water, which extended like a black mirror to the horizon. The forward-distant view was of the Path still uncertain,
which led to the light.

reached below sea level, unaffected by storms, not people, is growing a magic herb, the death
defeated. Thus, in Joan's mind grew a solitary image of love: a flower that defeated death. She
could not be stolen, they could only slowly to the surface of life grow. Completely denuded
of the purpose, in anticipation and confidence are collected, that it like heaven flames penetrated
mind and body, subject to the vision of the food of Dream nurtured,
word, desire and hope fills musically, they felt love.

It quickly becomes virtuous to illusion and delusion of disease, and again is the noblest of the creatures
not without a touch of illness. Arragon in a valley, there was a woman, since the Year and a
day sitting on a stone, to await the Saviour, the tears and hid his
face, when one walked by, who was just only human.

This it certainly was, her heart a little to bind, which is not made of earth, and they waved back
in a mysterious fire.

Joan's innocence had kept on seeing the vicious passions that their country fertilized with
blood. She had frost in the lack of love as a winter dress to the Nestled heart. Joan had seen
much of what had broken the slumber of youth, and it was forced from the outside, who ordered
her to establish the fate of the passage of stars.

Also, there was a time before the Thoughtful could fall into anguish: the ocean gave birth
new countries, East and West gave price unheard of mysteries, the word of Christ even died when
It would never have been, across the sky like a fever shuddered the thought of infinity.

They dreamed of a face that took the pain, the great love trains like the red-hot Steel bends
under the hammer, an eye that is not clouded, but transfigured by the Request, by a gesture,
more trustworthy than oaths, by an intimate sound from the Inside the heart, a power which
they seized and carried, Low crushed, ugly made invisible.

Their senses were sharpened to look, gesture, sound, and for the pain the opportunity created,
and for that dims the existence, from the torment and lust born promises which simulate the
traits of honesty, and for those who sanctified by God and who are as eternal pillars of the construction
of the soul.

Often she felt as she cracks a huge fist from the ground and held her between Heaven and earth,
that she could not fall, but was afraid to fall continuously.

She seemed to float high above all and was dying of fear, deep down all fall under. It happened
that night after night she lay on her knees and prayed for Philip, but not as Woman prays for
her husband, Philip was pale shadow before her mind's eye, almost like a ghost even without
definite shape, like something from far away, what was going on a bridge or vary slipped on
silent water. She wished that are Philip, that he be, that he might live.

       She had so much darkness in that her night at times like a luminous
mist appeared.

Then put all things together in the simplest lines, everything has been face Stones were breathing, dead spaces
were talking about. How incomprehensible and overwhelming, it was then, this to wait for being
who was there, from the confusion of the creatures rose, while crystal-
and plant-like.

She herself felt like a flower, her human body replaced, and She looked into her own face,
which seemed withered and sleeping.

* * * * *

It is close to the minor nature, that they chained to the fate of
a larger, non-enforcement of fate want to believe, but to run away
and run to the low inclinations, which they the rule back in their
own circles.

Including Philip. Fearing the scorn of his people, he tried to be the old man himself even be
surpassed, and was careful that the thing which secretly gnawed his honor, not dragged through
the mouths will. Was gradually reduced his hope that the Infanta to reason, he hid it as much
as possible the growing impatience.

He thought of violence, which was good while it took too much noise with it, and he also allowed
the opinion disregard of the people do not, he was still a stranger.

Too much headache. This young man was not given the difficulties people . Explore He sought distraction,
and drove it openly with the beautiful Anna Sterel, the Wife of a Swabian nobleman. His imagination
painted him a picture of a jealous Infanta, which is so devised are smart, caught in the ropes. Nightly,
he went with the friend, the Count Palatine Frederick, of adventure. They dressed up and drove
all sorts of mischief.

The Palatine was a hero, a lamp of chivalry, German master, but true
to the new Spanish section, full of gallantry, full of debt.

He was also musical and beat the lord of Moncada, who had claimed that the music makes effeminate,
the tournament so prostrate, that he was deaf. As a rider he had not his equal, and it was literally
to say, he rides like the Count Palatine. This boaster burst into a hellish laughter him as
Mr. Hughes from Melun, who had the news of Madame de Molembais, gently
whispered, what of Philip and Johanna.

He rattled from head to foot, he rattled Chain, bar and eyes as he replied: "Easy, easy! the Duke
will know well how you beaten a stubborn woman. It is not long ago that the gay Philipp eaten at
each dinner has a warm woman's heart. "

Now it was the Count Palatine to return to Germany in the spring. Philip was sad as one who sits in
it with the wine and suddenly the wind cups and bottles. He lost the security and suspicious
and began to listen with restrained anger at the whisper, in where masters and servants liked
when he passed.

The talk was no longer absorb. A maid of honor had confided the secret of the Gran Vella it
brought back the King to Madrid. The king was furious and sent his chancellor to Philip, the Queen's
first lady to Johanna. Divorce and prison were the Infanta the prospect asked, where sacred
ordinances would be violated, should the king's own sex Not yet.

In August Don Philip had to move to Italy, and the king ordered the Infanta to go to Medina del
Campo. There, she was kept like a prisoner, a Dominican fanatical, deluded by their silence thought,
conscience with wild sermons intended to frighten her and croaked like an evil crow three
times a day the register of hell Sentences.

After his return, Philip was the princess come to her and promised
her own free Pieces to protect them from all persecutions.

Some suggested that fear of their magical arts would have induced him to do so. Others said that her
beauty had suddenly caught his desire; and of cunning he had intended it to submit to the first note.

However poisonous tongues brought his blood in turmoil and the gloomy scorn him rankled in all
Faces. The hidden Spaniertum was not equal to his sincere youth.

How vain their eyes, how treacherous their handshake, and the tone of her speech so sweet
that one honey to feel on the tongue believed. Spun by whirling-humid air, often sleepless lying
strangled by greed and resentment, Philipp let go of his non-steering drive to a Vile kind of
action carried away.

He arranged to meet with the two chamberlains, Lord of Fyennes and Mr Flory of Ysselstein. One
night they broke late at night through a secret passage, and by a locked Door broke open in the
bedroom, Joan. With the drawn sword presented to the Duke front of the bed and asked the Infanta,
to be his lawful wife creature; resist it But they, so they should
suffer death.

       

The schöngeflächten cheeks pale gloss over cast, was directed to the Infanta and meant the two gentlemen
to leave the room. This did not think differently than their Mr done the will, and obeyed. Then
undressed Johanna, a black band Cloth over her eyes and said, "So you can take me, not seeing,
so you can make your Desire to satisfy and make both your threat.

God have mercy on me. "

Philip, just been great and was hot for a while thinking. Then he began to tremble and trembling,
shy downcast eyes, he left the room. From then on he was transformed. In the palace, spread
consternation and concern. For Johanna, his body began to slowly to emerge from the chaos of
the unformed.

* * * * *

At first he was still hunting and the ball game if released, also regularly at the table. Then
he closed off. His skin color was gray, his eyes sad and sick, bent his course. Don Diego Gotor,
the physician said that a fever rummage in his bones. It seemed as he would no longer be able
to live a decent conversation, every encouragement, he took without even share.

He gave the necessary orders in writing and only spoke with Gregoria Donna, Joan's single Confidant,
who came daily to him.

It's magic, "said the courtiers. If Diego Gotor entered the room of the Duke, surrounded him curiously.
The old man's face Don Diego, by the interplay of a permanent thousand folds and wrinkles resemble
a stormy clouds in the sky had was sad and helpless.

In a life of seventy years ago, Diego Gotor the minds of people with explored the same desire
with which the inconspicuous worm eroded the interior of the earth.

He said: "In the East, I learned that young men who evaded the subject of their love, fell into a
passion equal to that of our Duke. Such a man was, as in tetanus there, hovering between sleep
and death, and his mind had not the strength, body to govern.

Could not satisfied his desire, he languished out gradually and had or die, it took many years
and permanent removal of the beloved person, to he could walk again among human beings, deprived
of joy, of course. It happens as I said in the east, where the blood is thick and black texture.
But I was assured a learned man, that, as lightning strikes only in the highest trees, only chosen
one can be affected by such disasters, and that nasty flesh so that
no more is used as the kitchen fire with the flash.

"

The Knights alignment of the Infanta. How can Joan quietly watching a grief, the cause they
themselves, they were heard, how they endure it to their conscience, the magnificent let man
eat then, as if she were dumb, deaf, blind and lame.

Soon began to Philip, to have food and drink on its own, is denied to prayer, and otherwise
healing potions exerted no effect. His eyes extinguished, his hand did not close anymore to print
the greeting.

At night he sat up and stretched out his arms as if to embrace an aerial view. The hot lips babbled a tender
sound.

When he looked in the mirror, he saw no his own face, and sometimes he kissed in the facing
his own mouth.

The Infanta was often at Phillips Commons, she caught his gaze and held him, they grub speak,
the inside of his eye on. The blue stars floating on the milky Iris in a kind of madness slowly
from Eck. The yellow corn wet hair stuck on the steep Forehead. The narrow body, lying on the
side, like a bent bow. Donna Joan shook his head, nor Philip walked on silent water cloudy distance.

But
her yearning was so great that it, as the fulfillment would be done
as a Current of ecstasy flowed through her chest.

She saw the blue sky dotted with emerald Flowers and the myrtle and laurel-laden silver earth
heaved swelling of the firmament contrary. Often she hurried into the twilight of the galleries
in the gardens, so fast that Donna Gregoria could scarcely follow. someone you met on this way, it
was and looked at him, stern and wild. Who is this man? she asked her companion with its strange flute
sending or cooing voice. And Donna Gregoria said about: it is one of Don Philipps friends. But
Joan heard the answer no more, she was further paced, and the thin
yellow lids, overspun of countless blue veins seemed to to bury fully
flashing eyes, his head fell forward, blew off her shoulder the evening
wind down the veil, and the exposed neck shone like the wood of a
freshly peeled young tree ...

It so happened that M. de Carancy and
Lord of Aymeries agreed to the king of late to report all of the report
and to urge that the Infanta in serious accountability drawn, would
their behavior it as a fruit and a proof of diabolical black art .

Saw They gave assurances the consent of the other grandees and councils, and Mr. of Carancy should
make the spokesman. On a Friday in early September, they rode with their people Valladolid gene,
in which city the king was holding court at that time. At the court Once there, they could
be reported, and Lord of Carancy was angry with restrained eloquence before, which darkened the
minds of the palace of Burgos.

The king was dead pale with anger. He had long cherished the shameful affair just because of concern.
It was issued an arrest warrant, according to Johanna Portillo was strong castle set in heresy
custody. The commander of Burgos had two hundred to put men under the command of the Lord of Carancy;
with them and in support of the upper Alguazil, so also the law of
arms to the side stand, this should invade the palace and the Infanta
continue.

The two men were satisfied; heretics custody was as much as slowly die under torture. They returned back
to the earliest Burgos and acted without delay.

The Captain, very Royal affected by the command did not dare to object to, although he actually
only the Duke had to obey. He sent in secret, but message to the steward in the palace, to prepare
the people of Infanta and to warn.

When the evening bells sounded from the towers of the Cathedral, Lord
of Carancy calls his Armed in the name of the king was inlet into
the palace, occupy all gates, stationed some of the people in the
hallways and stairs, and walked by his comrades and the Chief Justice,
followed by the apartments of the Infanta.

Madame de Bevres who confronted him, responded to his rough and overbearing with quiet words that
Donna Joan are in the bath.

Lord of Carancy was suspicious, but had to decide to wait.

However, since almost half an hour elapsed without that neither the duchess nor any of its
women showed overpowered his suspicion and impatience, he opened the nearest door leading into
an empty room, walked through this room and came to a second door, which he raised violent.

The Infanta was sitting in front of a porphyry table on which a golden chandelier with five
lit candles stood. She sat in a chair with high back, but not reclining, her upper body was
strange stiffly erect and motionless, this stiffness was increased by the low-hanging Arms. She
wore a maroon dress that would have been for a monk's robe can hold would not be the soft yellow
embroidery at the hem and the sleeves have been.

Behind her stood Donna Gregoria and combed the hair of the mistress. Donna Gregoria was small,
slender, articulated spitzgesichtig. She had a bit of a monkey and a bit of a swallow. Caressing
considered it the bluish hair in his left hand and listened to the crackling sound that you
comb brought forth.

Even the Alguazil and other gentlemen were now at hand and not staring without Shy of the threshold.
From opposite, half-lit rooms ran out of open maids near, and remained with folded hands are.
Donna Gregoria stopped to comb and looked over his shoulder proud of questioning to Mr Carancy,
the language fails and the handle back to the parchment in the hands of the judge. Donna Joan rose
her, for she was neither surprised nor angry.

It was as if they were listening to the confused noise, the beginning sounded from outside, and
their yellow thin eyelids barely moved as she asked: "What his glory, the king has ordered me?
because only in his name may such an attack be justified. "

Lord of Carancy winced and a shudder ran over his skin. But he replied, what he had to answer.

In
the words of heretics detention met Donna Gregoria a piercing scream. The Infanta was a gesture.
Her forehead seemed to be almost invisible under the falling Cloud of grief. Her face was
like a stone in the bed of the black flowing hair.

"I 'm ready, "she said with a lost smile, because they will suffer the bathed as lust.

Gregoria Donna took the candle and wished to, unplanned, senseless rush ahead, lady. The five
burning lights kept blowing up in the draft and high appeared to Johanna once as infallible promise,
so that what followed, her breathless expectations, even as The deepest was resting, and while
she lived, she felt it even as a remembrance, gratitude and tired.

Concerned about the impact that would have Joan's capture of Philip,
Don Diego Gotor the Duke in a short period of what was done in the
work release.

Between his last word and the second, which saw him in face to face with the Infanta, was not
so much Elapsed time than it takes to count to fifty. The Duke stumbled panting start. His
eye, the impression of rotten, putrid, made clung to nothing, to
anyone.

       He fell on his knees in front of Donna Johanna, and when she drew
back a little, decreased He further back, flat on the ground.

As he lay, he began to cry. Everyone thought now It was finished with him, and stared at each
other perplexed.

The Infanta had squeezed the fingers of both hands. Her head fell on the stretched Neck backward.
She listened enraptured to the wines, which swirled up like wings noise to her. Now she saw
Philip, now he was there, he lived.

With a sudden jerk she leaned down and pressed his hand gently on his hair. Philip looked on
silent, their eyes melted, It raised him as saying he embraced her
thighs with his arms and carried her short and hoarse aufjubelnd by
a purple haze of happiness through.

Joan laughed silently into the air, and it seemed to her as it would go over walls, the front
Philipps step shattered, shattered on forests, the dark glass, and the Sea that foamed like liquid
dawn.

The whole night was the castle of gayest exuberance met in the City was once a festive nature. The noble
family of Stuniga left in the open Zechtafel build a road for the people.

* * * * *

Propelled singer and song writer now woven into their often recited
verses like to have a A verse for the price of the intimate love between
Philip and Joanna of Castile.

       

But the Court of Burgos gradually became a place of silence. The pages, knights, and Noble women
went out to talk to the fabric. A sporadic jousting helped only a few days. The men were sitting
there as often troubled by lost battles, and some asked for the leave to move to Rome, Madrid
and in Flanders.

Came the mocking grandees together, it was said, what makes Phil? he still asleep? And It was
answered: if the thirsty drink, he does not speak.

The Duke was rarely publicly. Once the Council business was done, where He put a serious benevolent
behavior on the day he retired again in his chambers back. Hunting was a fashionable, so he
let the guests often alone or remote from the company if it was just the funniest, and rode off.
Then reported Shepherds, that they had found him in a lonely valley,
where the horse is left to itself grazing on a slope, while Philip
was ruhvoll on Earth and sent to look into the clouds.

Some were announced, so here he is just under the spell of certain magic. But with certainty
was known only that he Johanna Italian poems read aloud, and the reports of sailors on Indian
lands and the new treatises on the stars, which in Germany were printed. The talk was baseless,
the Duke was also still an avid church-goers and the spiritual moves he showed such devotion that
it was poignant, in his bright Youthful face to look.

* * * * *

But there came a time when aufzuckte in the face sometimes rapid fear. As was then relaxed the
smooth taut face and threw a tired fold.

But Philip had only be to find the courage to yield to the pull out of the skin. About when,
in the Dusk at the window and looked away over the treetops, in the
branches of the spring tingled. Also it was before going to sleep
at night, that a sigh from his lips hurried.

Before the dream his
spirit flew to the far bank of the Danube. There, life was much easier;
It seemed that one could walk there with suddenly unloaded shoulder.

Philip
longed for a game. Not according to knightly game - he had often feel
like to squat with mercenaries on a dirty bar table and cards with
them to . Play It irritated him to participate in their raw jokes,
in isolation, he drove speech and contradiction amused, inwardly at
an obscene phrase and giggled when the earned applause from the imaginary
listeners to have believed.

Yes, he was craving for something nasty,
lascivious, filthy and wicked. This desire grew, as he tried before
the world and to hide himself with care.

After some time sitting
with him Johanna fell from exhaustion on the eyes, and he saw from
when he was asleep while walking and standing. Because they spanned
his mind, it expanded its Soul of all assets. When she spoke or was
silent, it was equally difficult, always present be. Their silence
was like a block of marble, which he should carry on his hands. Hands,
Arms and the whole body fell under the weight of the block gradually
the tremor, and the power failed. She had nothing of that upright
sitting fervor was at his side, constantly drunk from the same thin
air.

Here was a mysterious circle in which the nerves proceed to
the blades pulled apart. to leave him, seemed questionable, since
beyond perhaps death. Philip was afraid in front of his wife.

Once
he thought of the night jokes, which he dressed in the company of
Palatine committed.

How he expressed the word "jolly" in the Indian tongue we cannot tell, but he conveyed it somehow,
for the Indian's lips expanded in a grim smile, the first he had indulged in since the day
of the abduction.

The process by which Tony was transformed was peculiar.  Opening a little bundle, the Indian
took therefrom a small coat, or capote, of deer-skin; soft, and of a beautiful yellow, like
the skin of the chamois.  It was richly ornamented with porcupine-quill-work done in various
colours, and had fringes of leather and little locks of hair hanging from it in various places.
Causing Tony to strip, he put this coat on him, and fastened it round his waist with a worsted
belt of bright scarlet.  Next he drew on his little legs a pair of blue cloth leggings, which
were ornamented with beads, and clothed his feet in new moccasins, embroidered, like the coat,
with quill-work.  Tony regarded all this with unconcealed pleasure, but it did not seem to
please him so much when the Indian combed his rich curly hair straight down all round, so that
his face was quite concealed by it.  Taking a pair of large scissors from his bundle, the Indian
passed one blade under the hair across the forehead, gave a sharp snip, and the whole mass
fell like a curtain to the ground.  It was a sublimely simple mode of clearing the way for
the countenance--much in vogue among North American savages, from whom it has recently been
introduced among civilised nations.  The Indian then lifted the clustering curls at the back,
and again opened the scissors.  For a few moments his fingers played with the locks as he gazed
thoughtfully at them; then, apparently changing his mind, he let them drop, and put the scissors
away.

But the toilet was not yet complete.  The versatile operator drew from his bundle some bright-red,
yellow ochre, and blue paint, with a piece of charcoal, and set to work on Tony's countenance
with all the force of a Van Dyck and the rich colouring of a Rubens.  He began with a streak
of scarlet from the eyebrows to the end of the nose.  Skipping the mouth, he continued the
streak from the lower lip down the chin, under which it melted into a tender half-tint made
by a smudge of yellow ochre and charcoal.  This vigorous touch seemed to rouse the painter's
spirit in Petawanaquat, for he pushed the boy out at arm's length, drew himself back, frowned,
glared, and breathed hard.  Three bars of blue from the bridge of the nose over each cheek,
with two red circles below, and a black triangle on the forehead, were touched in with consummate
skill and breadth.  One of the touches was so broad that it covered the whole jaw, and had
to be modified.  On each closed upper eyelid an intensely black spot was painted, by which
simple device Tony, with his azure orbs, was made, as it were, to wink black and gaze blue.
The general effect having thus been blocked in, the artist devoted himself to the finishing
touches, and at last turned out a piece of work which old Samuel Ravenshaw himself would have
failed to recognise as his son.

It should have been remarked that previous to this, Petawanaquat had modified his own costume.
His leggings were fringed with scalp-locks; he had painted his face, and stuck a bunch of feathers
in his hair, and a gay firebag and a tomahawk were thrust under his belt behind.

"Ho!" he exclaimed, with a look of satisfaction, "now Tony is Tonyquat, and Petawanaquat is
his father!"

"When will zoo take me back to my own fadder?" asked Tony, emboldened by the Indian's growing
familiarity.

No reply was given to this, but the question seemed to throw the red man into a savage reverie,
and a dark frown settled on his painted face, as he muttered, "The Little Wolf meant to take
the white man's life, but he was wise: he spared his life and took his heart.  His revenge
is sweeter.  Wah!"

Tony failed to catch the meaning of this, but fearing to rouse the anger of his new father,
he held his tongue.  Meanwhile the Indian put the child on a stump a few yards off in front
of him, filled his pipe, lighted it, placed an elbow on each knee, rested his chin on his doubled
fists, and glared at his handiwork.  Tony was used to glaring by that time, though he did not
like it.  He sat still for a long time like one fascinated, and returned the stare with interest.

At last the Indian spoke.

"Is Tonyquat a Christian?"

Somewhat surprised but not perplexed by the question Tony answered, "Ho, yis," promptly.

The Indian again looked long and earnestly at the child, as if he were considering how far
such a juvenile mind might be capable of going into a theological discussion.

"What is a Christian?" asked the Indian abruptly.

"A Kist'n's a dood boy," replied Tony; then, dropping his eyes for a moment in an effort to
recall past lessons, he suddenly looked up with an intelligent smile, and said, "Oh, yis, I
'memers now.  Elsie teach me a Kist'n boy's one what tries to be like de Lord--dood, kind,
gentle, fo'givin', patient, an' heaps more; zat's what a Kist'n is."

The Indian nodded approvingly.  This accorded, as far as it went, with what he had learned
from the missionaries of Red River, but his mind was evidently perplexed.  He smoked, meditated
a considerable time, and glared at Tony in silence; then said suddenly--

"Tonyquat, your father is not a Christian."

"My fadder would knock zoo down if zoo say dat to hims face," replied the child confidently.

This seemed so palpable a truth that the Indian nodded several times, and grinned fiendishly.

"Do Christians swear, an' drink, and fight, and get angry till the blood makes the face blue,
and strike with the fist?" asked Petawanaquat.

"Oh, no--never," replied Tony, adopting that shocked tone and look which Elsie was in the habit
of using when anything wicked was propounded to her; "dey's always dood, like Josuf an' Abel
an' Sam'l, an' Cain, an' David, an' Saul--"

Tony stopped short, with an indistinct idea that he was mixing pattern characters.

"Ho!" muttered the savage, with a gleam of triumph in his eyes, "Petawanaquat has got his heart."

"Eh, zoo got 'im by heart a'ready?  Took me long, long time to git 'em by heart," said Tony,
with a look of admiration, which was sadly marred by the paint.  "Me's not got 'em all off
yet.  But you's clever, an'-- an'--big."

The Indian's smile became a sad one, and his look was again perplexed, as he rose and returned
to the camp, followed by his adopted son.  It was obvious that no light was to be thrown on
his religious difficulties, whatever they were, by Tonyquat.

After leaving the lakelet on the plains, the Indian travelled for several days with his friends;
and then parting from them, went towards the west, to rejoin his family.  This point of divergence
the pursuers had missed, and when they overtook the Indian band, they found, to their intense
regret, that the kidnapper had escaped them.

"We will hold on with the redskins," said Ian Macdonald, while sitting in council with his
companions after this discovery.  "The chief tells me that buffaloes have been reported in
a spot which lies in the direction we must follow to recover the trail.  This advantage we
now possess, however: we know where Petawanaquat is going--thanks to his so-called friends
here, who don't seem to care much about him--and as he believes he has distanced all pursuers,
he will now journey slower than before.  Besides, we must help to kill a buffalo or two, our
meat being nearly done.  What say you, Vic?"

"I say what you say, of course, though I'd rather set off ahead of the band, and push on as
fast as we can."

"Vich means dat youth bees impetoous toujours," said Rollin.

In pursuance of this plan they journeyed with the Indians for three days, when an event occurred
which modified their plans considerably. This was the discovery one afternoon of a broad trail,
made by the passage of numerous carts and horsemen over the prairie.

"Buffalo-runners!" exclaimed Rollin, when they came upon the track.

"From Red River!" cried Victor.

"Even so, boys," said Ian.

The Indian chief, who led the party, held the same opinion, and added that they were evidently
journeying in the same direction with themselves.  This rendered it necessary that they should
make a forced march during the night, it being otherwise impossible for men on foot to overtake
a party of horsemen.  Towards midnight of the same day they had the satisfaction of seeing
their campfires in the distance.  Soon afterwards they were within the circle of the camp,
where men were still smoking and eating round the fires, and women and children were moving
busily about.

"Why, there are John Flett and David Mowat," exclaimed Victor, as several of the men came forward
to meet the party.

"An' Hayes, an' Vinklemann," cried Rollin.

Another minute and they were shaking hands amid a chorus of surprised and hearty questions
and replies.

"Is Louis Lambert with you?" asked Victor, after mutual explanations had been given.

"No," said David Mowat, with a laugh, "he's got other fish to fry at home."

Poor Ian winced, for he at once pictured to himself Elsie as the mermaid hinted at.

"Now, boys, I'm going to ask some of you to make a sacrifice," said Ian. "We had intended to
follow up this chase on foot, but of course will be able to accomplish our end sooner on horseback.
I want three of you to lend us your horses.  You're sure to be well paid for them by Sam Ravenshaw
and my father.  I'll guarantee you that--"

"We want no guarantee," interrupted John Flett, "and we have spare horses enough in the camp
to mount you without giving up our own; so make your mind easy."

"Zat is troo," said Herr Winklemann; "ve has goot horse to spare; buff'lo-runners every von.
Bot you mus' stay vid us von day for run ze buff'lo an' git supply of meat."

Victor and his friends at once agreed to this, all the more readily that the possession of
horses would now enable them easily to overtake the fugitives.  Accordingly, they sat down
to a splendid supper of robbiboo, and continued to eat, chat, and quaff tea far into the following
morning, until nature asserted herself by shutting up their eyelids.

The band with which our adventurers were now associated was composed of a motley crew of Red
River half-breeds, out for the great spring buffalo hunt.  It consisted of nearly 700 hunters,
as many women, more than 400 children, and upwards of 1000 carts, with horses and draught oxen,
besides about 700 buffalo-runners, or trained hunting-horses, and more than 500 dogs.  These
latter, although useless in the spring hunt, were, nevertheless, taken with them, fed, and
cared for, because of their valuable qualities as draught animals for light sledges in winter.

Some of the hunters were steady-going and respectable enough; others were idle, thriftless
fellows, who could not settle to farming in the colony, and even in the chase were lazy, bad
hunters.  The women were there for the purpose of attending to camp duties--cooking, dressing
the buffalo skins, making bags from the animals' green hides, with the hair left on the outside,
and filling the same with pemmican.

This substance, as we have elsewhere remarked, is by no means unpalatable; it is very nutritious,
and forms the chief food of the hundreds of voyageurs who traverse Rupert's Land in boats and
canoes during the open season of the year.  It must be understood, however, that the compost
is not attractive in appearance.  It is made in the open air by women who are not very particular
in their habits.  Hence, during windy weather, a modicum of dust is introduced into it.  Even
stray leaves and twigs may get into it at times, and it is always seasoned more or less profusely
with buffalo hairs.  But these are trifles to strong and hungry men.

Two trips to the plains were made annually by these hunters.  The proceeds of the spring hunt
were always sold to supply them with needed clothing, ammunition, etcetera, for the year. 
The "fall or autumn hunt" furnished them with their winter stock of food, and helped to pay
off their debts, most of them being supplied on credit.  Sometimes the fall hunt failed, in
which case starvation stared the improvident among them in the face, and suffering, more or
less severe, was the lot of all.

Little, however, did the reckless, jovial half-breeds care for such considerations on the occasion
about which we write.  It was the spring hunt.  The year was before them.  Health rolled in
the veins and hope revelled in the breasts of all as they mounted their steeds, and sallied
forth to the chase.

Ah! it was a memorable day for Victor, when, at early dawn, he vaulted into the saddle of the
horse lent to him, and went off to hunt the buffalo.

The said horse began by standing straight up on its hind legs like a man!  Victor held on by
the mane.  Reversing the process, it pointed its tail to the sky.  Victor stood in the stirrups.
It swerved to the right, it swerved to the left, but Victor swerved with it accommodatingly.
He was a splendid horseman.  Finding that out at last, the steed took the bit in its teeth
and ran away.  Victor let it run-- nay, he whacked its sides and made it run.  Dozens of wild
fellows were curvetting and racing around him.  It was his first hunt.  Mad with excitement,
he finally swept away from his comrades with a series of war-whoops that would have done credit
to the fiercest redskin on the North American plains.

CHAPTER SIX.

DESCRIBES A GREAT HUNT.

The huge bison, or buffalo, of the North American prairie is gregarious; in other words, it
loves society and travels in herds.  These herds are sometimes so vast as absolutely to blacken
the plains for miles around.

The half-breed buffalo-hunters of Red River were also gregarious.  From the moment of their
quitting the settlements they kept together for mutual help and protection.  Although a free,
wild, and lawless set, they found it absolutely necessary for hunting purposes to organise
themselves, and thus by voluntary submission to restraint, unwittingly did homage to Law! 
On a level plain at a place called Pembina, three days out from Red River, the whole camp squatted
down; the roll was called, and rules and regulations for the journey were agreed upon and settled.
Then ten captains were named, the senior being Baptiste Warder, an English half-breed, a fine
bold-looking and discreet man of resolute character, who was thus elected the great war chief
of the little army.  As commander-in-chief Baptiste had various duties to perform, among others
to see that lost property picked up about the camp should be restored to its owner through
the medium of a public crier, who went his rounds every evening.  Each captain had ten stout
fellows under him to act as soldiers or policemen.  Ten guides were also appointed, each of
whom led the camp day about and carried its flag or standard.  The hoisting of the flag each
morning was the signal for raising the camp.  Half an hour was the time allowed to get ready,
unless, any one being sick or animals having strayed, delay became necessary.  All day the
flag remained up; its being lowered each evening was the signal for encamping.  Then the captains
and their men arranged the order of the camp.  The carts as they arrived moved to their appointed
places, side by side, with the trains outwards, and formed a circle, inside of which, at one
end, the tents were pitched in double and triple rows, the horses, etcetera, being tethered
at the other end. Thus they were at all times ready to resist attack from Indians.

Among other rules laid down on this occasion at starting were the following:--

No hunting to be allowed on the Sabbath day.  No party to fork off, lag behind, or go before,
without permission.  No hunter or party to run buffalo before the general order, and every
captain in turn to mount guard with his men and patrol the camp.  The punishments for offenders
were, like themselves, rather wild and wasteful.  For a first offence against the laws, a culprit
was to have his saddle and bridle cut up! For the second, his coat to be taken and cut up;
and for the third he was to be flogged.  A person convicted of theft was to be brought to the
middle of the camp, and have his or her name loudly proclaimed three times, with the word "thief"
added each time.

It was the third week out from the settlement when the hunters met with Victor Ravenshaw and
his friends, yet up to that day they had failed to find the buffalo, and were well-nigh starving.
The intelligence, therefore, that scouts had at length discovered game, had filled the camp
with joy.

After having taken a little of the mettle out of his steed, as related in the last chapter,
Victor caused him to make a wide circuit on the plain, and came up behind the line of hunters
just as they topped a prairie undulation, or wave, and sighted the buffalo.  It was a grand
array, the sight of which thrilled the young sportsman to the heart. Full four hundred huntsmen,
mounted on fresh and restive steeds, were slowly advancing, waiting eagerly for the word to
start.  Baptiste Warder, their chief, was in front with his telescope, surveying the game and
the ground.  Victor pushed in between Ian and Rollin, who rode near the centre of the impatient
line.  The wild cattle blackened the plain at the distance of about a mile and a half from them.

"Surely they must have seen us by this time," said Victor, in a voice of suppressed agitation.

"Have you got your powder-horn and bullets handy?" asked Ian.

"Yes; all right."

"Put 'im in de mout, de mout," said Rollin quickly.

The half-breed here referred to a habit of the hunters, who carry several bullets in their
mouths to facilitate loading while running at full speed.  The method is simple.  The hunter
merely pours powder into his left palm, transfers it to his gun, drops a bullet from his mouth
into the muzzle, hits the butt smartly on his pommel, which at once sends the charge home and
forces priming into the pan, and thus is ready for another shot.

Victor, having forgotten all about this, immediately put three bullets into his mouth, his
gun being already loaded.

"Don't swallow them!" said Ian.

"Swallow your own advice," growled Victor.

"Start!" shouted Captain Warder.

The welcome signal sent an electric thrill along the line.  It was promptly obeyed, first at
a slow trot, then at a hard gallop.  The low rumbling thunder of their tramp was in keeping
with the wild eager looks of the half-savage hunters.  They had approached to within four or
five hundred yards before the buffalo-bulls curved their tails into marks of interrogation
and began to paw the ground.  Another moment, and the mighty herd took to flight.  Then the
huntsmen let loose their eager steeds.  As squadrons of dragoons charge into the thick of battle,
these wild fellows bore down with grand momentum on the buffalo bands.  The very earth seemed
to tremble when they charged, but when the herd sprang away in the frenzy of terror it was
as though a shock of earthquake had riven the plains.  Right into the careering mass the horsemen
rushed. Shots began--here, there, and everywhere, until a rattle of musketry filled the air,
while smoke, dust, shouts, and bellowing added to the wild confusion.  The fattest animals
were selected, and in an incredibly short space of time a thousand of their carcasses strewed
the plain.

The men who were best mounted of course darted forward in advance and secured the fattest cows.
They seldom dropped a mark to identify their property.  These hunters possess a power of distinguishing
the animals they have slain during a hot and long ride, which amounts almost to an instinct--even
though they may have killed from ten to twelve animals. An experienced hunter on a good horse
will perform such a feat during one race.  He seldom fires till within three or four yards
of his prey, and never misses. In
a tower of this castle survived the insane Infanta. The tower was around water surrounded, and
the drawbridge was always pulled up. On the water, swimming swans.

Johanna long Queen of Spain, of course, only the name was after. But were in her name all acts
of government exercised and sealed the decrees. But this queen reigned in fact just over a kingdom of
cats. The faithful January Dalaunes was Majordomo of Tordesillas. Every day he went on a boat
over and looked to see if the lady was playing with the cats, as if they were their children.
Each animal wore a colorful ribbon around the neck and each had his
name and his dignity.

Uniformly flowed over the years to Donna Johanna like water on a stone
wall. Long, many years.

They all found the noble woman absorbed in a game, yes, only in the barren Reflection of a
game, in blunt ignorance of himself, never in enlightened peace.

Out in the world had come to many. The boy, Carlos had become a man; and the princes had chosen him to
the Roman emperor. He waged wars against heretics and they threw to the ground. He was strong indeed,
and strongly in the word. His whole life was a War: full blood, full
of trickery.

Heißdrängender ambition lured him from disappointment to disappointment. His true face, he
was hidden behind many other faces. He had many faces against the people, but his face before
God was always the same: melancholy and sick.

Once he was fully covered with a white ground plate, on which shone
the word: Nondum, not yet.

After years had passed and he held all the power in his hands, the
an individual could be granted, as said to be tired Disclaimer: no
more.

He was such a huge Prince, that he could use two globes in the arms, and his people called him "the
only Lord ". Nevertheless, his peace of a monastery seemed desirable
over all.

When he was fifty years old, he traveled to Santander and Burgos took over after Tordesillas.

One
day in autumn rattled the bridge over the moat and a considerable
train bright Men entered the dilapidated farm.

The Emperor went up alone.

Despite the sunny day, there was room in the twilight, the oppressive air smelled of Incense and
Incense essences.

Middle of the room was Joan's bed, and rotten to the Damask were cats: white and black, old and
young, while others sat on the ledge, others at an angle or on chairs.

Donna Johanna had risen. Her narrow, almost runzelloses face with the highly curved Mouth looked
like carved wood.

Curious, she glanced at the slight figure in black beret with the red, reaching up to his knees
Spanish cloak, looked puzzled they pale dead blogs, cold, tired face.

With solemn steps and approached the Emperor as he sat down on one knee, the lower lip trembled
a little and he mumbled. "Your blessing, mother,"

Donna Johanna ducked, and when she feindurchäderten the lids in a
morbid excitement yet further opened, it was as you summarize views,
as their batting again consider the seriousness and the horror of
long-vanished life laid.

The drawbridge rattled up, and at the head of his men, the Emperor
rode in silence the the setting sun.

Since leaving her room and Donna Joan, for the first time in many years. As sleeping it rose the tower
stairs until they came to a round little window, the open view were on the plane. Here they stood
and watched with an eye to the brilliant cavalcade. As the horizon, floating in the golden purple
to suck the color image was threatened, they rose a Flight beyond. You saw a couple of sparkling
spear heads, and whispered her parched lips: the Emperor, the Emperor.

It was getting dark, and they came down. Her heart is tied with the last bang and sparks the
passing of consciousness she sighed against an uncertain consoled death.

Sara Malcolm

At the end of the year one thousand seven hundred thirty-two, in the reign of King George the
Second it happened that the London night watchman at his fourth tour in the near Temple Bar
a young girl was lying lifeless on the street. He tried to raise the fainting and to give,
and when his efforts were in vain, he went to the gate of the next House and knocked the residents
awake. Soon appeared several maids of Mrs. Lydia Duncomb.

And Master John Kerrel, who had the second floor of this House to his quarters and the late
hour, only returned home from the inn, you may see the group that once the Situational fainting.
She seemed to belong to the poorest of the poor, ragged and dirty Robes were hanging around the
vermagerten body, the gray wool skirt barely covered her knees, the hair, coppery color from
that, as have many Irländerinnen was from road debris stained and hung loose on his head and
shoulders. Even a little blood stuck to it, and discovered a crack in the See or impact on the
injured arm, just below the shoulder.

Master John Kerrel, a man who knew all the hiding places of the city and to the human species London
understood, said the girls were probably among the laundresses of the Temple. However, wore the
lifeless into the house, the night watchman with his lantern shone above. Mrs. Duncombe, an
old woman of seventy-five years, was awakened by the commotion and came in the hallway. She
let the wounded bear in the kitchen and ordered her a warehouse next to the to prepare oven, and then
they took a piece of linen, and was instrumental to include the injured arm.

In the morning the unknown girl had still not awakened from the anesthesia. Eyes and Mouth were
shut, the body was not characteristic of the active breath. It was the Road Rush sent for
the doctor, and when he came and saw that his art to a poor Dirnlein
waste should, he shrugged and ordered to be bled without to bear on
the injured arm, which had already been through enough life-blood
flowed.

The recipe was ineffective, it passed the whole day and the stranger lay there in the first
hour, and there had Nothing can learn about them, not where it came from, as she was and what
circumstances they had been killed - because gradually allowed to assume that it will pass with
the child and was done for nothing else did, as the mysterious Hingegangene a grave to be
feared. The residents were excited by the incident vividly. John Kerrels friend Roommate, Master
John Gehagan who returned home the previous night to early times was wanted, one against a
clock a violent shouting from the direction of St. James, have But because nothing was explained.
John Gehagan went down to Mrs. Duncombe kitchen, visited the motionless girl with the suspicion
of a man, all the pitfalls and tricks of the Begging people know and advised that they should
lead the person of a blower under the nose or tickle her feet with red-hot iron. Nevertheless,
he considered, not without pity the childlike slender figure, flowing from the life insensibly
seemed like water the hollow of his hand.

Darkness had already begun when suddenly began to breathe the unconscious visible. Only the maid and the
girls were running in the kitchen, and those who immediately called
her mistress.

As Mrs. Duncomb went to the camp, she was full of deep wonderment are rooted to the spot. You
looked into a face that was released from all earthly pain. had a gentle smile spread over the mouth
and, as it were forced apart from within, the lips. Undoubtedly embraced a dream the meaning tied
to them and opened up the door to a country the wonder and happiness. It was as if the sleeper
hear angelic voices, for they seemed listen to and it was as if a divine being it was near and
dreaded disease burden lifted from her heart, for they seemed to see in her face and it was
like a gleam of gratitude and relief. The other maids who gradually assembled at that surrounded
surprised the bed. The smile of the dreamer took each deep in its interior. Reverent they stood, folded
his hands over the white Dutch apron, and looked in the fire of that dream, until her eyes sparkled
and she kind of dissatisfaction with the States of the world and their own existence felt. After
all began one of the last comers to pray aloud, and of which she awoke from her sleep of death,
and opened his eyes.

Since it was again a face like all the faces, or at least as many,
and the strangeness fell down from him, and the women who stood in
a circle, felt ashamed and angry.

They wanted to know the name of a strange gesture to the person, and she readily gave Told that her
name was Sarah Malcolm. Nothing else was to bring out from it. The more you in they crowded,
ever obstinate they became. She gave herself as shy and reserved, that even the goodwill of
the good-natured lady took offense at that assured her again and again, that she could stay
in their home that they find work here, and bread and dangers longer need to fear, the memory of
her complaining, perhaps the heart. Vain, suspicious and anxious eyes of their face to face, were flown
to rest gently on anyone, and than with the screening of all was finished, she sighed and
looked sullenly bang to the floor. The lenient Mrs. Duncomb let her get to eat, and Sara wrapped
up in greed the last piece of bread all down. Then they had to take their rags and received decent
Clothes and a girl helped her comb out the wonderful red hair, which
until submitted to the legs and so close was that it would instead
of a coat can be used.

Sara Malcolm remained in the house. They had to do menial work and the last servant servant be.
She had to run upstairs stairs under, run for the Mietsherren on the street, the Lap dog of
the woman looking for when it had lost, and for the beer from the tavern the groom pick. Sara!
called it early and late, Sara! here and there. And not enough with all the parts, bustling, creative
and are commanded, had they even the impertinent impositions to ward
off the men, the noble gentleman, drunk at midnight hinaufstolperte
the stairs, pockmarked by baker boy who beat after dawn to the front
door.

Much work Sara and had little sleep. If the boots cleaned and the clothes were brushed, was
Clock the already well into the night, the house was asleep, and she stumbled into a crate next
to the cellar hatch, where she and the girls had to run lie on mattresses.

But she was happy in her mind when she was just in words alone, but not her asked around and searched
for things past. The Why and when she tasted bitter than hunger and rainy weather. One had soon
been found, and John Kerrel had guessed right: they had been in Tempelbar washerwoman. But it was long time
ago because a Year and we wanted to know that they are a disreputable
change was apparent and one or others, she claimed to have seen with
people of ill repute in which a decent Bars Man wants to meet anywhere.

With

such Gemunkle it had be content, and finally took care of one was not much to Sara. Was allowed
to live and breathe it, that was all, - enough for them. Seeing the sky, had it not a common request,
and if she was touched by the sun only just, it was it enough. The view looking at them they did
not return for a smile, she had no Against smile, jokes she did not interpret or they slipped
past her ears as the looks in their eyes. She never complained, so they seemed in agreement
with their lot and to belong to the sort of creatures that cumbersome without the sight of happy
things and without joy-butt then weave.

However, they had a peculiarity, by its nature always be something
special, so suspicious was felt by the home people.

On Sunday, when others sought companionship, went for walks and umhingen the best costumes,
Sara was lonely sitting at home, staring right down with a look of recollection, a violent
expression of the reflection the hours were the immobility of her face a mask. Their indigo-blue
eyes lost the view outside, their arms wrapped around his knees, head and shoulders covered
forward, and so they sat, the mockery of all the guards and the anxiety of the pious, the
inclined towards the opinion that Sarah Malcolm was a little witch, which have dealings with
evil and am on the day of the Lord sentenced to solidify.

It was the dream that such an effect, the forgotten dream. The once been happy Soul wanted back
the lost image and did not find it. She remembered clearly as something glorious was swollen, then
from the darkness of the long sleep, a never previously sensed good fortune had made her heart
was full to bursting and to emporgesproßt Mouth was and blossomed as a smile to the lips. Then
the awakening had come - the Eyes saw nothing, felt nothing more heart. Superstitious shudder
it thought this hour, had left her nothing but the desire for something mysterious unknown.

Once Master Gehagan came home and went into the yard to go up to the windows of John Kerrels to
whistle and call out to him that Francis Rhymer, the young friend of both men, yet these Evening
to his wedding in Scotland arrived in London, a courier had brought the message. Kerrel rejoiced
and said that it was probably the best thing for him here in the next few days to lodge house.
Master Gehagan wanted to leave the yard again, as his eyes fell by the onset of twilight on Sara,
who before the Open House a freshly slaughtered Plucked goose. Although he told himself that
it hardly worth while the trouble, he felt like the innocuous-looking freckled girl kiss. He approached
her, grabbed her with both hands without a word Head and pursed his lips, but what he considered
easy, was impracticable. Wild open eyes stared at him, and two steel
arms to hold up against his chest.

As the desire grew, and he grabbed her by the shoulders, dragged her into the barn, where more
than the empty crib a gloomy light flashed, and threw it on the straw. As he now wanted to bow down
to her, he bounced back with a startled cry. The whole face Sara was smeared with blood as such
that it offered a terrible sight, well recognized it's natural reason: from the neck of the dead
animal that Sara is not in the hands raised left, was the blood flowed again, and had covered the
face of the girl, but with his love greed it was over and he ran scared and excited.

When Sara was alone, she went to the watering trough and washing face and arms, then she sat down
on the edge of the well and pondered. However, it was night, and between two steep walls grew
up on the blue sky of the moon. She wished that the star of the golden bowl and you'll want
to fall at his feet, she wished that a noble spirit of the dawn come forth to take her to the feeling
of the oppressive presence. But she cried again: Sara! Sara! Mrs. Duncomb greeted in the hallway
a newly arrived stranger that before Staircase stood and slowly went up step by step. In front
of the house kept the body in he had traveled. John Gehagan helped on the road to the officer, unload
the luggage. "Take care, that nothing is forgotten, John, "cried the voice of the young man's
society, there was a well-worded Voice without heaviness, who heard it, she loved to joke. He
returned again back and took the servant Welfare from an object.
"What is it?"

Asked Gehagan, "in the end even the bridal gift? Nodded," The other, and in a flush of joy or
arrogance, he opened the envelope and showed John Gehagan a cup of pure gold and decorated
with precious stones, which formed a fiery circle below the mouth edge. Master Gehagan surprise
attack and then exclaimed, laughing: "A marriage is a pledge of Art in England no longer muster.
One such gem is not even the king's treasury . Boast And he followed his friend and took the trophy
after them yourself.

Sara had to get wine from the cellar. Their ears heard the command, but went to their sense
else to do. As she felt her way down with the wax light the basement stairs, she saw in the
darkness before him constantly the beautiful cup. It seemed that all the happiness of life with
his property was to be connected, and if they do not even have to call not the property could,
once they wanted him in the hand, all in his hands, his fingers embraced as something that you
have sought with all their heart. As you lower the Vault, the cool moist air in waves struck in the
face, took the inexplicable desire so out of hand that a red-hot anxiety tied her chest. What
was it?

Not the gold, not the precious stones attracted so, not the idea of ​​the high value of the cup
and that something else is equally valuable to buy it, no, it seemed to her like a Talisman,
talented, dark, narrow life somehow magically into the light and space and with a potion that
you drink from it to strengthen the body and thirsty to bless. Never had they sought something
with the same fervor. If she is Mary Tracy and the two brothers, Alexander night-time, obey
by force, was extended to a theft, she had the Captured viewed with disdain and sorrow and given their
share is not uncommon.

Trembling, she walked into the kitchen, and the bottles that they
brought, there was no one of her hand and shattered on the stone tiles.

    The cook took a burning brand from the hearth and
    wanted to hurl it in anger after Sarah, who stood
    with bare feet in the flowing red wine.
    She laid her hands over her face and ran
    away silently. The work was no longer of equipped
    with arms and legs seemed made of lead, lips and tongue were burning.

The irresistible Engine plagued crept up the stairs until the room in the fed, the young man
was. The key hole was covered by the key bit, shone down from the column Light. While she put
her ear to the wood, she heard him sing with his light voice; she understood the words:

Wayward heart, what do you cry for gold, Keep it as solid, lest it slip away, The wild bride who
wanted to have everything Wearing a robe of sky-blue silk. And have you nothing and you can give
her nothing, It will invite your young blood and life.

The upper floor was John Kerrels door opened with great noise and his bass voice boomed through the house.
Sara slipped down again, the angry restlessness of her heart she could not more damping. Gradually
night was quiet and the hour that were allowed to rest Sara's feet. The gate was attached,
the guard shouted from his times. threw himself on her hard bed Sara from one side to the other.
As soon as she closed her eyes as she saw the golden Cup, and it was cold and hot. After midnight,
she rose softly, put coat and gown , it was uncertain step into the hallway, and crept slowly,
pausing at each stage and listening, the staircase of Francis Rhymers room up. It was not completely
dark; by The round little window above the front door shone the moon and painted the broad
stair railing with a green stripe. Soon she was standing at the door and listened. Everything
was quiet, only your own heart beat wildly and loud. She put her hand on the metal latch, and
felt icy terror as the door opened as if by themselves and strange in the room Double light
in front of her. Through the windows shone the bright moon, and on a console the bed was burning
oil lamp. The young stranger was asleep, half in his clothes, and a Book in which he read was the
dangling hand slipped and fallen on the floor; this is how the unlocked door lock were signs
that he was not looking to sleep had, but that he had been overwhelmed by it. When Sara in
her deluded mind a favorable destiny would have liked to see it, the higher will had in their
eyes undoubtedly be the object of her desires as she is close to
be on the table saw: the golden cup, on the one hand, illumined green
light from the moon, on the other red lights by night lamp.

She went and grabbed it, put her hands on the gem and felt the salvation of the possession
by each finger individually to flow into the body. In excess the eerie glow they put the lip
of the cup to his mouth as if to drink, it was a noise and roar inside
the empty cup, and it was as if something Laue, cozy hinabflösse his
throat and his body filled up to the toes and hair tips.

Now when they had the trophy, she thought fortzueilen and flee from the house. But a fleeting
pleasure she walked in to see the face of the young people and to figure out wants to be like
his face the suffering that he would tomorrow take to the lost Brautgut.

They drew near. She bent a little and saw the friendly features. She wanted a Cry emit, but
his lips still kept him back in time. Her eyes expanded , and she was breathing heavily. My dream,
she thought inwardly, sobbing, my dream. This Young man she had seen in a dream, slumber with
the same colored cheeks. Only in his Sleep they recognized him. Smiling, he had come to her,
they were together into a radiant House gone, and there they were married. For her sake he had
stepped into the house, he brought her the cup and yet, they had to flee. Zusammengeduckt turned
Sara and hurried to the room, forgetting to close the door, walked down the stairs, went to
in the room where the sleeping companion snored, and fell on her bed and stared into the Air. The
cup she had still in her arms. He got on her body a living force and talked to her. Then she
grabbed the fear, they rummaged on the wall side of the camp, the straw up and hid it. But he
was not hidden enough, he spoke even louder. Sara could not bear. She stood up, shivering, she
ran into the hall, and wished that the night would be over. She pushed the bolt from the front
door, opened it and ran into the street. An orphan Growling dog ran up to her. shunning the bright
moonlight, they fled into the darkness, without to know where they
should turn to.

It drove her to a church, praying she would, she wanted to appear before God. Love had taken
her and now she knew that Love marrow and blood drives consumed so quickly that burn all the
veins. You had never known the Lord God, now she knew him, had denied Christ, now believed
him.
Meanwhile it happened that before Mrs. Duncombe house a party of
three people came together, two men and a woman. There were two brothers,
Alexander and the yellow Mary Tracy. Both Alexander, famous criminals
in the guild, were twin brothers and looked so much alike that one
once in Whitechapel, when they were drunk, one The left ear was cut
off so they could distinguish them henceforth.

"Voila, de buffalo!" said Rollin, pointing to a group of these huge creatures, in the midst
of which two bulls were waging furious war, while the cows stood by and looked on.  "Shall
ve go an' chase dem?"

"No, Rollin; we have more important game to chase," said Victor, whose conscience, now that
he was free from the exciting influences of the camp, had twinged him more than once for his
delay--even although it was partly justifiable--while the image of poor Tony, with outstretched,
appealing hands on a flying horse behind a savage, was ever before him. "Come on come on!"

He switched his horse, and went skimming down the slope, followed by his comrades.

Soon they came to a place where the ground was more broken and rocky.

"Voila! a bar! a bar!" shouted the excitable half-breed; "com, kill him!"

They looked, and there, sure enough, was an object which Rollin declared was a large grizzly
bear.  It was a long way off, however, and the ground between them seemed very broken and difficult
to traverse on horseback.  Ian Macdonald thought of the bear's claws, and a collar, and Elsie,
and tightened his reins.  Then he thought of the risk of breaking a horse's leg if the bear
should lead them a long chase over such ground, and of the certain loss of time, and of Petawanaquat
pushing on ahead.  It was a tempting opportunity, but his power of self-denial triumphed.

"No, Rollin, we have no time to hunt."

"Behold!" exclaimed Rollin again; "more buffalo!"

They had swept past the stony ground and rounded a clump of trees, behind which a small herd
of animals stood for a few seconds, staring at them in mute amazement.  These snorted, set
up their tails, and tore wildly away to the right.  This was too much.  With a gleeful yell,
Rollin turned to pursue, but Victor called to him angrily to let the buffalo be.  The half-breed
turned back with a sigh.

"Ah, vell! ve must forbear."

"I say, Vic," remarked Ian, with a significant smile, "why won't you go after the buffalo?"

Victor looked at his friend in surprise.

"Surely," he said, "it is more important as well as more interesting to rescue one's brother
than to chase wild animals!"

"True, but how does that sentiment accord with your wish that you might spend eternity in hunting
buffalo?"

"Oh, you know," returned Victor, with a laugh, "when I said that I wasn't thinking of--of--"

He switched his horse into a wilder gallop, and said no more.  He had said quite enough.  He
was not the only youth in North America and elsewhere who has uttered a good deal of nonsense
without "thinking." But then that was long ago.  Youths are wiser now!

On the evening of that day, when the sun went down, and when it became too dark to follow the
trail, and, therefore, unsafe to travel for fear of stumbling into badger-holes, the three
friends pulled up beside a clump of wood on the margin of a little stream, and prepared their
encampment.

Little did they imagine, while busy with the fire and kettle, how nearly they had gained their
end, yet how disastrously they had missed it. Well for man, sometimes, that he is ignorant
of what takes place around him.  Had the three pursuers known who was encamped in a clump of
trees not half a mile beyond them, they would not have feasted that night so heartily, nor
would they have gone to sleep with such calm placidity.

In the clump of trees referred to, Petawanaquat himself sat smoking over the dying embers of
the fire that had cooked his recently devoured supper, and Tony, full to repletion, lay on
his back gazing at him in quiet satisfaction, mingled slightly with wonder; for Tony was a
philosopher in a small way, and familiarity with his father's pipe had failed to set at rest
a question which perplexed his mind, namely, why men should draw smoke into their mouths merely
to puff it out again!

When the pipe and the camp-fire had burnt low, Tony observed, with much interest, that the
Indian's eyes became suddenly fixed, that his nostrils dilated, his lips ceased to move, the
cloud that had just escaped from them curled round the superincumbent nose and disappeared
without being followed by another cloud, and the entire man became rigid like a brown statue.
At that point Tony ceased to think, because tired nature asserted her claims, and he fell sound
asleep.

The practised ear of the Indian had detected the sound of horses' feet on the prairie.  To
any ordinary man no sound at all would have been perceptible save the sighing of the night
wind.  Petawanaquat, however, not only heard the tramp, but could distinguish it from that
of buffalo. He rose softly, ascertained that Tony was asleep, turned aside the bushes, and
melted into darkness among the trees.  Presently he emerged on the plain at the other side
of the clump, and there stood still. Patience is one of the red man's characteristics.  He
did not move hand or foot for half an hour, during which time, despite the distance of the
neighbouring clump, he could easily make out the sound of an axe chopping wood, and even heard
human voices in conversation.  Then a gleam of light flickered among the trees, and the kindling
camp-fire of our three friends became visible.

The Indian now felt comparatively safe.  He knew that, whoever the new arrivals might be, they
were unsuspicious of his presence in the vicinity, and had encamped for the night.  He also
knew that when men are busy with supper they are not very watchful, especially when danger
is not expected.  He, therefore, gave them another quarter of an hour to prepare supper, and
then moved stealthily over the plain towards them.

On gaining the shelter of the trees, Petawanaquat advanced with cat-like caution, until he
could clearly see the travellers.  He recognised them instantly, and a dark frown settled on
his features.  His first thought was to steal their horses, and thus leave them incapable of
pursuing further, but Ian Macdonald was too much of a backwoodsman to give a foe the opportunity
to do this.  The horses were tethered close beside the fire.  Then the Indian thought of shooting
them, but his gun being a single-barrel, such as was sold to the Indians by the fur-traders,
could only dispose of one horse at a time, thus leaving the other two to his incensed enemies,
who would probably capture him before he could reload or regain his own camp.  With a feeling
of baffled rage he suddenly thought of murder.  He could easily kill Ian Macdonald, could probably
reload before Rollin should overtake him, and as for Victor, he was nothing!  Quick as thought
the Indian raised his gun, and took a long steady aim at Ian's forehead.

The contemplative schoolmaster was looking at the fire, thinking of Elsie at the time.  He
smiled as he thought of her.  Perhaps it was the smile that checked the savage perhaps it was
the words, "Thou shalt not kill," which had been sounded in his ears more than once during
the past winter by the missionary.  At all events, the fatal trigger was not drawn.  Ian's
contemplations were not disturbed, the gun was lowered, and the savage melted once more into
the deep shade of the thicket.

Returning to his own camp in the same cat-like manner as before, Petawanaquat quietly but quickly
packed his provisions, etcetera, on his horse.  When all was ready he tried to awaken Tony,
but Tony slept the sleep of infancy and comparative innocence.  The Indian pushed him, kicked
him, even lifted him up and shook him, before he awoke.  Then, expressing astonishment at having
to resume the journey at so early an hour, the child submitted silently to orders.

In a few minutes the Indian led his horse down to the rivulet close at hand, crossed it with
Tony, half asleep, clinging to his back, ascended the opposite bank, and gained the level plain.
Here he mounted, with Tony in front to guard against the risk of his falling off in a state
of slumber, and galloped away.

Fortunately for him, the moon had risen, for red men are not a whit better than white at seeing
in the dark.  Indeed, we question the proverbial capacity of cats in that way.  True, the orb
of night was clouded, and only in her first quarter, but she gave light enough to enable the
horseman to avoid dangers and proceed at full speed.  Thus, while the pursuers snored, the
pursued went scouring over the prairies, farther and farther towards the fair west.

Michel Rollin, being a lively, restless character, used generally to be up before his comrades
in the mornings, and gratified an inquisitive propensity by poking about.  In his pokings he
discovered the trail of the midnight visitor, and thereupon set up a howl of surprise that
effectually roused Ian and Victor.  These, guns in hand, rushed, as they fancied, to the rescue.

"What a noisy goose you are!" said Victor, on learning the cause of the cry.

"There is reason for haste, however," said Ian, rising from a close inspection of the trail.
"Some one has been here in the night watching us.  Why he didn't join us if a friend, or kill
us if an enemy, puzzles me.  If there were horse-tracks about I should say it must have been
Petawanaquat himself.  Come, we must mount and away without breakfast."

They went off accordingly, and soon traced the Indian's original track to the place where he
had encamped.  Petawanaquat had taken the precaution to pour water on his fire, so as to cool
the ashes, and thus lead to the supposition that he had been gone a considerable time, but
Ian was not to be so easily deceived.  The moment he had examined the extinct fire, and made
up his mind, he leaped up and followed the trail to the spot where the Indian had mounted.

"Now then, mount, boys!" he cried, vaulting into the saddle, "no time to lose.  The redskin
seems to have a good horse, and knows we are at his heels.  It will be a straight end-on race
now. Nov.

We make light correction to deal with day-break to go back down. This night I have spent quite
restless. I was hardly in bed, so I felt as if I were about and over afflicted with hives would
be, but I soon realized that there was a large army hopping insects was who attacked the newcomers
bloodthirsty. These animals generated in the wooden houses in large numbers. The night I was
very long and I was pleased, when we took the morning light.

Leuk, at 10 clock.

We do not have much time, but I will, before we leave here, the most remarkable separation Report
of our society, which is here done this and what causes them. We went by daybreak today in Leukerbad,
and the fresh snow had a slippery Way to make about the mat. We arrived shortly after Inden,
where we then up the steep path yesterday we came down the right hand over left us, and on the mat
to the precipice, which we now left, was descended. It is this wild and overgrown with trees,
but goes down quite a tolerable way. Through this Felskluefte has the water from Leukerbad
is, its drains into the valley of Valais. We saw in the height at the side of the rock, the we were
yesterday came down, carved a water line even artificially, which a stream until it since then
through a cave, from the mountains to the neighboring village passed is. We now had to back
up a hill and then saw the open soon Wallis and the ugly city Leuk are below us. It is these small
town mostly on the mountains angeflickt, the roofs covered with coarse shingle geriss'nen
unzierlich, by the time of the year gefault are all black and vermoos't. How even enters, so
it disgusts one, because it is dirty everywhere, anxious and lack purchasing these privileged and
free Residents come to light everywhere. We found the friend, who brought the bad news that it
is now were beginning to go with the horses too much more difficult. The stables are smaller and
narrower, because they are set up only on mules and pack animals; Catch the Haber also to be very rare,
so it is said that further out into the mountains at all any more to be found was. A decision was
soon taken: the friend should return with the horses down the Valais about Bex, Vevey, Lausanne,
Fribourg and Bern go to Lucerne, the count and I wanted our way to continue the Valais up, try
to find out we could penetrate up to the Gotthard, then arrive by the Canton of Uri over the
four-Waldstaedtersee also in Lucerne. One finds in these districts all mules, which are on paths
better than Horses, and go to the foot is in the end, always the most pleasant. We have our things
getrennet. The friend is gone, our portmanteau is a mule that we hired 've done, and we will
arise and take our way on foot to Brzeg. On Sky, it looks colorful, but I think the good luck,
which accompanied us so far and we has attracted so far, we should not rely on the place where
we need it most necessary.

Brzeg, 10 Evening.

From our present way I can tell, other than if you use a prolix Weather History want to be entertained.
We went in company with a Swabian Metzger servant, who were lost here in Leuk Condition and
had found a kind of Clown made our luggage loaded on a mule, which his master hertrieb right
to Eleven of starting against Leuk. Behind us, we could look into it as far into the Wallis valley,
it was with thick snow-clouds covered the country were drawn up. It was really a dull Sight
and I was afraid in the silence that whether it was just so bright up ahead as such in the
land of Goshen, but the clouds soon overtake us, and we might in fact the Wallis on both sides
surrounded by mountains, covered by clouds and the concern that the
most part, mastered the one ear.

On the other side of good courage, spoke with far more reliable voice, I pointed my Disbelief,
gave me the past and went looking for them on the current air phenomena attention. We were
always against the beautiful weather and the Rhone up was all serene, and strong drive of the
evening breeze, the clouds behind us, it was never us . Reach The cause was this: Go into
the Wallis valley, as I said so often, very many of the neighboring mountain gorges and pour out
like little creeks in the great river, as well as run all of their waters together in the Rhone.
From each of these Aperture remove a draft of wind, which generates in the inner valleys, and
curves. As now the main feature of the clouds up the valley in such a ravine comes, can the
draft the clouds from over, but fighting with them and the wind of it, carries it holds and
to make them well-hours dispute the road. This fight, we saw too often, and if we believed to be
exaggerated by them, they again found such a hindrance, and if we have a hour were gone, she
could barely move. Towards evening was the sky extraordinarily beautiful. As we approached
Brzeg, came almost to the clouds same time with us, but they had to, because the sun had set, and
they now a thrilling morning wind was contrary, to stand still, and made from a mountain to
the other a large half-moon over the valley. They were brought to the consistence of the cold air
and had, as where their hem recorded against the blue sky, beautiful light and lively Forms. They
saw that they contained snow, but it seems to promise us the fresh air, that this night will
not fall much. We have a very magnificent inn, and what we great pleasure to serve, found in
a spacious room with a fireplace, and we sit on Fires and Rathschlaege for our further journey.
Here is the usual in Brzeg Road over the Simplon Pass to Italy, so if we our thoughts about the
Furka to the Gotthard place to go, wanted, so we went with hired horses and mules at Domo
d'Ossola, Margozzo that lead to the Lago Maggiore hinaufwaerts, then Bellinzona so on up the Gotthard,
Airolo over to the Capuchins.

This road is paved the whole winter and to make comfortable with horses, but it seems it our imagination,
because he was not in our plan and our five days later than our Friend would not lead to Lucerne,
irritating. Rather, we wish the Valais to to see its upper end, then we will meet tomorrow
evening, and if the luck is good, we sit about tomorrow at this time in the Realp Ursner valley,
which in the Gotthard close to its highest peak. If we do not have the Furka come, it remains
always the way here, unlocked, and then we will take the trouble out of what we do not like
to choose from. You can imagine that I am here again the Examiniret people have, whether they
believe that the passage over the Furka Pass is open, for the is the thought with which I
get up, go to bed with whom I busy the whole day am. Previously, it was a march to compare
which one is against an enemy, and now Is it as if you closed to spots where he has barricaded himself
and one with him must grapple. Besides our mule two horses have been ordered up early tomorrow.

Muenster,
11 Evening 6 clock.

Again a happy and pleasant day back down!

This morning as we of Brzeg rode out with a good holiday season, the landlord told us more
on the way: When to call the mountain, they would like the Furka, would be too fierce, so we
go back again and another Look away. With our two horses and a mule we were come over soon pleasant
Mats, where the valley is so narrow that it hardly some Buechsenschuesse wide. It was there
a beautiful pasture, what trees are large, and Felsstuecke derived from adjacent Mountains have abgeloes't
lie scattered. The valley becomes narrower, one is compelled side of the mountains to climb,
and now has the Rhone in a rugged canyon always right between them. In the height but the country
is spreading again from quite nice to manifold curved hills are nice nutritious mats to lie quite
Oerter, the look with her dark brown wooden houses very strange out from under the snow. We walked
on foot and that's a lot of us mutually to please. Because whether you like to ensure the
horses, so it still looks more dangerous when another, in so narrow paths, worn by such a
weak animal, on a steep precipice, before a herreitet. Now, because no livestock may be on the pasture
by all the people in the houses put, we see such a region of very lonely, and the idea that
you can always close and is trapped close between immense mountains, is gray and the Imagination
unpleasant images that throw one that is not right also sat in the saddle, even slightly down
could. Man is never quite master of himself, since he does not know the future, because even
the next moment it is hidden, so he often has when something extremely performs, with involuntary
sensations, intuitions, to fight dreamlike ideas about which one can laugh shortly after her
well, but often at the moment of decision limits are difficult. In our district we encountered
was pleasant lunch. We entered with a wife, in whose house it looked quite legally. Her room
was to of local Landesart ausgetaefelt, the beds adorned with carvings, cabinets, tables, and
what otherwise secured by small repositories on the walls and corners had been, like Ornaments of
turning and carving. The portraits that hung in the room, could we soon see that several of this
family are the clergy had given. We also found a collection of well-bound books over the door,
which we for a Foundation, one of these men were. We took down the legends of saints and read
inside, while the food was prepared for us. The hostess asked us, even as they entered the
room, whether we, the history of salvation. Alexis had read? We said No, but took no further
notice of it and everyone was reading on in his chapter. When we were seated at table, she
turned to us and started again from the healing. Alexis at talk. We asked if it was their patron
or the patron of their house, which they said no, But it asserted that this holy man had endured
so much for the love of God, that her his story s miserable occur when many of the others.

Since
they saw that we were not informed, she began to tell us about: It is the healing. Alexis was
the son of noble, rich and God-fearing parents in Rome, was them who had done much good to extremely
poor, with pleasure into in the course of good works followed, but he had done this were not
enough, but he had in the silence of God totally dedicated to Christ and vowed an eternal chastity.
As it subsequently his Parents want to marry a beautiful and excellent virgin, while he could
be her Will, not oppose, the marriage had taken place, he had but
instead of to go to the bride in the chamber to a vessel which he
found ready set, and let so went over to Asia.

He was attracted there the figure of a poor beggar and be in such a way become unrecognizable
to him, the servants of his father, which to him forwarded, not recognized to have done. He
had been there at the door of the main church habitually resided, attended the service, and of little
alms of the faithful nurtured. After three or four years, several miracles were done by a special
Pleasure of God appear. The bishop had heard a voice in the church that he the most pious man
whose prayer to God is most comfortable, call the church and should do his part the service.
Because it does not know then who was meant, he was the voice of the beggar appears, because
he too great astonishment of the people recouped. The healing. Alexis, concerned that the attention
of people upset him become, and has made himself in the silence of it and onto a ship, willing to
continue in go to the stranger. By storm and other circumstances but he was compelled, in Italy
to land. The healing. Man had seen a sign from God and herein were happy to find an opportunity
where he could see the self-denial in the highest degree. It is therefore almost went off on his
own country, have the right of poor as a beggar his parents made front door, this, for holding
him to have him on their religious Beneficence well received, and applied a servant with him
in the castle district and to provide the requisite food. This servant, peevish about the
struggles and angry about his reign charity and got this apparent beggar into a bad hole under
the stairs, pointed, and his low right there, and economical food a dog for her. " The healing.
Man, rather than having to make this mistake, have about it until fairly praised God in his
heart, and not only that what he so easily carried may change, with calm mind, but also the
continuing sorrows the parents and his wife over the absence of her beloved Alexis with incredible
and endured about human perseverance. For his beloved parents and his beautiful wife, he has
a hundred times of the day hear his name proclaimed, according to him see crave and consume
about his absence, a sorrowful life. At this point the woman could not contain more tears and
her two girls, at the time the narrative attached to her skirt looked intently up at the mother.
I know not present sorry state, she said, and no greater torture than what has gone through this
holy man with his family and free will. But God has he repaid his resistance to's glorious,
and at his death the greatest characters the favor in the eyes of the faithful given. For
sacred than this man, after some Years living in this state, beigewohnet daily with the utmost
ardor to the church, he has finally become ill with no one particularly given to him eight.

As after that one morning the Pope, in the presence of the emperor and nobility of the whole, even
held high office, have at once the bells throughout the city to make Rome as to a Todtengelaeute
started to ring, as is now jedermaenniglich surprised, so the Pope, a revelation happened, that
this miracle the death of the holy man in the display throughout the city, in the house of Patricii
it should be very different. The father of the Alexis fell to questioning even the beggars. He went
home and found him under the Stairs really dead. In the folded hands had healed. Man stuck a
paper what it the old man, though in vain, tried to pull out. He brought this message the
Emperor and Pope back in the church, then with the court and the clergy are , Flying off to
the self-healing. Body to visit. When they arrived, took the healing. Father without difficulty
from the paper to the body of the hands, it gave the Emperor, it immediately read by his chancellor
left. It contained this paper, the story so far this saint. Since it would have only now about the
great sorrow of the parents and the wife should see their beloved
son and husband are so close to him and had nothing to Good can do,
and nunmehro first learned how he was treated evil.

You fell over the Complained her body, so sadly, that none of the bystanders all of the crying
mentioned could. Also were among the crowd of people who gradually zudraengten, many patients
the healing to that. Body and left by touching it healthy. The story teller assured again by
dried her eyes, that they do not s miserable history have never heard, and I even got such
a great desire to cry, I large Had trouble to conceal it and to suppress. After the meal, I
searched the Father Cochem the legend himself on, and found that the good woman the whole thread
of pure human History and forget to keep all absurd applications of this writer purely had.


"What! without a pipe, Vic?"

"Come, now, don't chaff.  To tell you the truth, Ian, I've been acting your part lately.  I've
been preaching a sermon to myself, the text of which was given to me by Herr Winklemann the
night before we left the buffalo-runners, and I've been considerably impressed by my own preaching.
Anyhow, I mean to take my own advice--good-night, again."

Ian returned "good-night" with a smile, and, lying down beside him, gazed long and thoughtfully
through the trees overhead at the twinkling, tranquil stars.  Michel Rollin continued to smoke
and meditate for another hour.  Then he shook the ashes out of his pipe, heaped fresh logs
on the declining fire, and followed his comrades to the land of Nod.

CHAPTER TEN.

FATE OF THE BUFFALO-HUNTERS.

In vain did the pursuers search after the lost Tony.  Finding it impossible to rediscover the
trail, they made for the nearest post of the fur-traders, from whom they heard of an Indian
who had passed that way in the direction of the Rocky Mountains, but the traders had taken
no special notice of the boy, and could tell nothing about him.  They willingly, however, supplied
the pursuers with provisions on credit, for they knew Victor's father well by repute, and allowed
them to join a party who were about to ascend the Saskatchewan river.

On being further questioned, one of the traders did remember that the hair of the boy seemed
to him unusually brown and curly for that of a redskin, but his reminiscences were somewhat
vague.  Still, on the strength of them, Victor and Ian resolved to continue the chase, and
Rollin agreed to follow.  Thus the summer and autumn passed away.

Meanwhile a terrible disaster had befallen the buffalo-hunters of the Red River.

We have said that after disposing of the proceeds of the spring hunt in the settlement, and
thus securing additional supplies, it is the custom of the hunters to return to the plains
for the fall or autumn hunt, which is usually expected to furnish the means of subsistence
during the long and severe winter.  But this hunt is not always a success, and when it is a
partial failure the gay, improvident, harum-scarum half-breeds have a sad time of it. While he
said, was a pushing and shoving in the background, and some women screamed, a medium-sized black dog ran
through an opening in the barrier, looked with glittering eyes at and crouched down at the
feet Bastides aufbellend shortly. This lay in deep emotion hand on the animal's neck and fended
off the Huissier imperiously, who wanted to remove it.

As the Court for guidance retired, no one dared to speak up. Any Women sobbed and they pointed to
rest, it was the prostitute Benoit, Colard lover. She had embraced the poor people by the
shoulders and bathed in tears Face expressed no other desire than to share his fate. A relative
Bastides joined this to speak with him, Bastide shook his head and did not see the man once.
Drowsy was something in his features, at any rate had no words of weight everything in his
ears. But it happened that his eyes once more charged and, after they had undergone immeasurable
distances, which met Clarissa. Since it seemed strange Woman no longer so strange. He heard the
sound of her voice as she called him murderer had, it was not a cry for help rather than an accusation
been? and this supplication Look, as if invisible fists she choked on the neck? and this delicate
shape, so strange ageless, trembling like a young birch tree in autumn?

Two lonely castaways are the subterranean ocean current in the same Train driven, each from
a different world, not on either side of the sea, capable of to leave the board, what their existence
is not even able to extend the hand, merely driven forth by the wind gradually depleted to unknown
depths. It is a ghostly at the mercy of the one for the other. But Bastides painful and dark surprise
fermenting again in the rush and dream of fatigue over, and the watchful eyes of his Dog appeared
to him like two reddish black stars between tree crowns. He heard the Death sentence when the
court came back and he got up and listened to the words the President, it sounded as if rain
water splashed on tender leaves. He sounded speak for himself, but what it was, he hardly
knew. Many faces he saw in insufficient Lighting turned against him, she gave the impression
of worm-eaten and rotting apples.


He raised his bulky frame with a sigh, for he was somewhat weak and dispirited--the band with
which he hunted having been at the starving-point for some days.  Winklemann clothed himself
in a wolf-skin, to which the ears and part of the head adhered.  A small sledge, which may
be described as a long thin plank with one end curled up, was brought to him by a hungry-looking
squaw.  Four dogs were attached to it with miniature harness made to fit them.  When all was
ready the hunter flung himself flat on his face at full length on the sledge, cracked his whip,
and away went the dogs at full speed.  Herr Winklemann was armed only with bow and arrows,
such weapons being most suitable for the work in hand.

Directing his course to a small clump of trees near to which the buffalo were scraping away
the yet shallow snow to reach their food, he soon gained the shelter of the bushes, fastened
up the dogs, and advanced through the clump to the other side.

It was a fine sight to a hungry man.  About a dozen animals were browsing there not far out
of gunshot.  Winklemann at once went down on all-fours, and arranged the large wolf-skin so
that the legs hung down over his own legs and arms, while the head was pulled over his eyes
like a hood.  Thus disguised, he crept into the midst of the unsuspicious band.

The buffalo is not afraid of wolves.  He treats them with contempt.  It is only when he is
wounded, or enfeebled by sickness or old age, that his sneaking enemy comes and sits down before
him, licking his chops in the hope of a meal.

A fat young cow cast a questioning glance at Winklemann as he approached her.  He stopped.
She turned aside and resumed her feeding.  Then she leaped suddenly into the air and fell quivering
on the snow, with an arrow up to the feathers in her side.  The hunter did not rise.  The animals
near to the cow looked at her a moment, as if in surprise at her eccentric behaviour, and then
went on feeding.  Again the hunter bent his bow, and another animal lay dying on the plain.
The guardian bull observed this, lifted his shaggy head, and moved that subtle index of temper,
his tail.  An ill-directed arrow immediately quivered in his flank.  With a roar of rage he
bounded into the air, tossed up his heels, and seeing no enemy on whom to wreak his vengeance--for
the wolf was crouching humbly on the snow--he dashed wildly away, followed by the rest of the
astonished herd.

The whole camp had turned out by that time to resume their journey, and advanced joyfully to
meet the returning hunter.  As they passed one of the numerous clumps of wood with which the
plains were studded, another herd of buffalo started suddenly into view.  Among other objects
of interest in the band of hunters, there happened to be a small child, which was strapped
with some luggage on a little sled and drawn by two dogs.  These dogs were lively.  They went
after the buffalo full swing, to the consternation of the parents of the child.  It was their
only child.  If it had only been a fragment of their only child, the two dogs could not have
whisked it off more swiftly. 

What the old woman replied, which I remember no more, but that we will soon out through a dark
passage to the hall and from there a wide staircase in the upper rooms of the house were led
into a large room with goldgebluemten wallpaper in which many pictures of old white powdered men
and women hung on the walls. My parents and the other guests are just risen from a set table,
the the middle of the room under a large crystal crown is. Soon I am sitting in a Napkin tied,
opposite the small Anne Lene; Wieb stands and served us the remains. I find myself very well,
only sometimes bothers me a croak, which consists of Herueberdringt distant to us. "Listen!"
I say raise and my little finger. The old Wieb but knows that a long time. "The ravens are,"
she says, "they sit in the orchard, We want to see them later "- But I forget the crows again;.
Wieb for shares to Dessert nor the doves from a confectioner sugar cake between us, only it
does not seem very herzugehen impartial, since Anne Lene receiving more Hahnenschwaenze the
collar and the pigeons.

A bit later I see the society on the garden paths looped between the flourishing Bushes promenade,
the old lady with the cutter, which is the arm of my father, prevents low to me and says, by
my head erect, "You must always pretty up just think, child, "I still believe now that this
little reminder of the almost shy writes her respect, which I, as long as she lived, reserve
the right to have this woman .-- But already written Wieb me by the hand and leads us far around
on the sunny climbing; last to the graft down to a straight path along the leads. Thus we arrive
at a garden pavilion which sits in the company with open doors at the coffee table. We are called in, and
I hesitate to take my mother a sugar ring from the silver cake basket and shows me the. But I'm
afraid, for I have seen that the wooden house on thin Stilts over the water is, until at last
it held before the bait and the colorful Schaefer pictures that are painted on the walls inside,
I move to permeate.

I feel as if I would have considered it a particularly pleasant feeling with how Anne Lene was
taken from my mother on her lap and kissed. Later, like the men, as is customary there, be gone
to visit the cattle on the land; for I have a memory, as soon as it was a silence around me,
where I only gentle voice of my mother and other women's voices heard. Anne Lene and I played
under the table to her feet and we put his head on the floor and listened to the water down.
At times we heard it splash and then lifted her head and Anne Lene said: "Do you hear, do the fish!"
Finally we went back into the house, it was cool, and I saw all the bushes in the garden in
the shade. Then the carriage drove up, and in his sleep, overcame me on my way, ended the
day with quiet contemplation of which I do not have no doubt that he existed in the very telling "as
ever, or if only my Invented the scattered incidents of various days in a framework that pressed
together added.

Later, when gradually ceased Hilfsbeduerftigkeit of age, pulled the
woman Ratmann van Roden with her granddaughter in the city and left
the court under the supervision of the former Bauknecht Marten and
his wife, the former Wieb.

In front of the house, which they a few streets away from our lived, stood arrow granite stones,
by heavy iron chains were linked. We boys, when we're on our way to school voruebergingen refrained,
rare, set us on these chains and, with table and Satchel rocking on the back, a few times back
and forth.
  In solemn silence the
hunters stood for a few minutes and looked at the sad sight, then turned and passed on.  The
case was too urgent to permit of delay.  Many lives hung on their speedy conveyance of news
to the settlement.  They bent forward, and with long swinging strides sped over the dreary
plains until darkness--not exhaustion--compelled them to halt.  They carried with them a small
amount of pemmican, about half rations, trusting to meet with something to shoot on the way.
Before daylight the moon rose.  They rose with it and pushed on.  Suddenly they were arrested
by an appalling yell. 

It is always a resolution as such if one is to cold in the water before I take the pen likes to
write. Here I would now just like, you to the description of the Savoy's Ice mountains, the
Bourit, a climber passionirter issued to refer.

Refreshed by a few glasses of good wine and the idea that this leaves more than arriving passengers
and Bourits book you will, I will do my best. The Chamouni valley in which we find ourselves
is very high in the mountains, is about six to seven hours and go from noon to midnight pretty.
The character of me It is distinguished from others, is that it is in the middle hardly has
any space, but the ground, like a hollow, clings right from the Arve
against the highest mountains.

The Mont Blanc and the mountains which descend from him, the ice masses, this immense Fill crevices
make up the eastern wall on which the whole length of the valley through seven Glacier, one
bigger than the other coming down. Our guide, we hired had to see the Arctic Ocean, came in time.
One is a sprightly young fellow, the other a middle-aged and klugduenkender, with all the scholarly
Tourism has had, the nature of the icebergs well informed and very capable Man, he assured us
that since the twenty-eight years - as long fuehr 'he strangers the mountain - he first this
late in the year, after All Saints, someone bring up; and yet we should see everything just as
well as in August. We climbed, with food and wine prepared to ascend the Mont-Anvert where
we should surprise the sight of the Arctic Ocean. I would it not take the jaws so full, actually
the Eisthal or the ice stream call, for the enormous masses of ice pass from a deep valley, from
the top to see produced in quite plain. Straight rear ends, an acute mountain from both sides
of Eiswogen come stare into the main stream. It was not the slightest snow on the jagged Total area
and the blue columns show glittered even beautiful. The weather began gradually to attract,
and I saw wogige gray clouds, the snow seemed to suggest, as I never seen her.

In the area where we spend hours, the tiny stones from pooled lodge an urge for Traveler called in jest
the castle of Mont-Anvert. M. Blair, an Englishman, who is on Geneva, has a more spacious in a more
fitting place up a bit further, can build, where to sit by the fire, out of a window that overlooked
the whole Eisthal can. The top of the rocks opposite and also in the depth of the valley are very
pointed out jagged. It is because they are made up of a Gesteinart together, their walls almost
perpendicularly to inject into the ground. Senses a light from, then the others are pointed in
the air. Such waves are so named needles and the Aiguille du Dru is such a strangely high point,
just opposite the Mont-Anvert. We wanted now also enter the Arctic Ocean and inspect these
enormous masses themselves. We climbed down the mountain and made a few hundred feet into the
wogigen Krystallklippen around. It is a very admirable sight when standing on the ice itself,
the oberwaerts is bearing down and meet with strange looks columns divorced masses. But 'We do not
like it want to hold this slippery ground, we were not walking with iron, nor equipped with studded
shoes, rather, had our heels by the long March rounded and smoothed. We set up once more at
the huts and after some rest ready for their departure. We descended the mountain and came to the place
where the Ice flow gradually down into the valley passes, and entered the cave in which he be
Water pours. It is far, far, the most beautiful of the blue, and it is more secure in Reason
than the front of the mouth, superseding melting because of their always great pieces of ice.
We took our path towards the inn, past the apartment of two blonde children of twelve to fourteen
years, the white very white skin, but rugged hair, red and have moving eyes like rabbits. The
deep night, which is located in the valley invites me early to bed, and I have hardly any say
as much cheerfulness you that we are a young tame ibex have seen which looks at the goat, as
the natural son a great man, whose education in the silence of a bourgeois family is applied.


At that moment there was a sound of shuffling in the porch, the door was thrown open, and a
gaunt, haggard man, with torn, snow-sprinkled garments, pale face, and bloodshot eyes, stood
pictured on the background of the dark porch.

"Baptiste Warder!" exclaimed Lambert, starting up.

"Ay, what's left o' me; and here's the remains o' Winklemann," said Warder, pointing to the
cadaverous face of the starving German, who followed him.

Need we say that the hunters received a kindly welcome by the Ravenshaw family, as they sank
exhausted into chairs.  The story of starvation, suffering, and death was soon told--at least
in outline.

"You are hungry.  When did you eat last?" asked Mr Ravenshaw, interrupting them.

"Two days ago," replied Warder, with a weary smile.

"It seems like two veeks," observed the German, with a sigh.

"Hallo!  Elsie, Cora, victuals!" cried the sympathetic old man, turning quickly round.

But Elsie, whose perceptions were quick, had already placed bread and beer on the table.

"Here, have a drink of beer first," said the host, pouring out a foaming glass.

Warder shook his head.  Winklemann remarked that, "beer vas goot, ver goot, but they had been
used to vatter of late."

"Ah!" he added, after devouring half a slice of bread while waiting for Cora to prepare another;
"blessed brod an' booter!  Nobody can know vat it is till he have starve for two veek--a--I
mean two days; all de same ting in my feel--"

The entrance of a huge bite put a sudden and full stop to the sentence.

"Why did you not stop at some of the houses higher up the river to feed?" asked Lambert.

Warder explained that they meant to have done so, but they had missed their way.  They had
grown stupid, he thought, from weakness.  When they lost the way they made straight for the
river, guided by the pole-star, and the first house they came in sight of was that of Willow Creek.

"How can the pole-star guide one?" asked Cora, in some surprise.

"Don't you know?" said Lambert, going round to where Cora sat, and sitting down beside her.
"I will explain."

"If I did know I wouldn't ask," replied Cora coquettishly; "besides, I did not put the question
to you."

"Nay, but you don't object to my answering it, do you?"

"Not if you are quite sure you can do so correctly."

"I think I can, but the doubts which you and your sister so often throw on my understanding
make me almost doubt myself," retorted Lambert, with a laughing glance at Elsie. A big dog driving like
mad at the chain from his mobile home to us, but we kutschieren with a whip to the yard up to
the front doorstep, and I see an old woman in the gray dress, with a fine pale face and very
white on the cutter Threshold, set during maid servant and a ladder up to the car and help
us to Earth. I still smell the dark hallway to the strict scent of Alantwurzel with which the inhabitants
march burn incense to ward off the mosquitoes every night after; I also have my father the old lady
kissing the hand, but then leave me the memory, and I find myself only after a few hours later,
on a bed of hay, a warm summer twilight around me. I look at the rise of hay and grain sheaves
formed walls, between the four around me large booths project into the air, so high that the
view through a desert darkness through must, until he reached again into a dull twilight, between
the numerous cobwebs hereinfaellt a Dachfensterchen. It is the so-called square, which I find myself.
The mountains to the specific area of ​​the hay inside the house, of which the farm buildings
in our Marsh, the peculiarly high level of education of the roof and his name Heuberg "or" Hauberg
" has received .-- It is full Sunday stillness around me.
  He'll be in the cariole in ten minutes.  What shall I say
to the Governor?"

"I'll go with you," answered Warder.

"So vill I," said Winklemann.

"You'll do nothing of the sort," retorted Ravenshaw.  "You both need rest.  A sound sleep will
fit you to do your work more actively in the morning.  I myself will go to the fort."

"Only one can go, at least in my cariole," remarked Lambert, "for it only holds two, and no
one can drive Black Dick but myself."

Baptiste Warder was immoveable; it ended in his going off in the cariole with Lambert to inform
the governor of the colony, who was also chief of the Hudson's Bay Company in Red River, and
to rouse the settlement. They had to pass the cottage of Angus Macdonald on the way.

"Oh! wow!" cried that excitable old settler when he heard the news. "Can it pe possible?  So
many tead an' tying.  Oh! wow!--Here, Martha! Martha! where iss that wuman?  It iss always
out of the way she iss when she's wantit.  Ay, Peegwish, you will do equally well.  Go to the
staple, man, an' tell the poy to put the mare in the cariole.  Make him pe quick; it's slow
he iss at the best, whatever."

Lambert did not wait to hear the remarks of Angus, but drove off at once.  Angus put on his
leather coat, fut cap, and mittens, and otherwise prepared himself for a drive over the snow-clad
plains to Fort Garry, where the Governor dwelt, intending to hear what was going to be done,
and offer his services.

With similarly benevolent end in view, old Ravenshaw harnessed his horse and made for the same
goal, regardless alike of rheumatism, age, and inclement weather.  At a certain point, not
far from the creek, the old trader's private track and that which led to the house of Angus
Macdonald united, and thereafter joined the main road, which road, by the way, was itself a
mere track beaten in the snow, with barely room for two carioles to pass.  Now, it so happened
that the neighbours came up to the point of junction at the same moment.  Both were driving
hard, being eager and sympathetic about the sufferings of the plain-hunters. To have continued
at the same pace would have been to insure a meeting and a crash.  One must give way to the
other!  Since the affair of the knoll these two men had studiously cut each other.  They met
every Sabbath day in the same church, and felt this to be incongruous as well as wrong.  The
son of the one was stolen by savages.  The son of the other was doing his utmost to rescue
the child.  Each regretted having quarrelled with the other, but pride was a powerful influence
in both. What was to be done?  Time for thought was short, for two fiery steeds were approaching
each other at the rate of ten miles an hour.  Who was to give in? Every day there were new arrests, not by traveling stranger was his freedom
was safe and after a few weeks half of France from the frenzy of rage, Revenge of desire and fear
taken. From the figures of the ridiculously horrible Murder turmoil emerged now this, now that
clearly and substantially upward, and most importantly finally appeared as more and called again,
the veiled lady with the green feathers on a hat, so they gradually became the focus and the driving
force of the bloody Action may simply be because their origin and existence remained a secret.
Many Voices Charlotte was suspected Arlabosse, but she could hardly vulnerable by their innocence
Corroborate testimony, it also seemed too innocent and too much as the victim of Bastides tyrannical
cruelty, to meet the demonic image of the mysterious stranger.

While Bach and Bousquier in a rivalry through which they winged their own destruction, bribed with
new inventions by the Authority for clemency and accusations, to which they encouraged the underground
zusickernde them talk, the murky sources of fresh food injecting high, while the soldier and
the couple Colard Bancal result of hard captivity, the treatment of the guards and the relentless
torturing interrogations in delirium of madness were overthrown, so that they reported things
that even the already accustomed to an excess Monsieur had described as a dream Jausion births,
while the other inmates, unstable between own experiences and morbid visions controlling, always
suspected of the other and now recanted what she summoned yesterday, soon whimpered for mercy, now
defiantly closed, while the inhabitants of the city, the villages around the province with a
fanaticism, was the fire of dark guardians watched and fed, to end the protracted Procedure and the
punishment of the offenders demanded, during the last court in the uncontrollable growing tide
of accusations and slander way and lost direction and was about to become a tool in the hands
of the mob, - while it was the boundless forces managed to poison the mind of a child who appeared
as a witness believe to father and mother and beguiled the people came, God had miraculously
the tongue of a babes solved.

Already at the beginning of the eleven-year old Magdalena Bancal had
been questioned by the judge; she had known nothing.

After that the child came into the hospice, and suddenly people came forward, by others and
those who had heard from the third and fourth person, the girl have seen how to put the old man
on the table and how her mother gave money have. Of course, determined the Judiciary Pinaud, the
only man in the desert of confusion Clarity and Case maintained that Magdalena of the economists
of the Hospice, as well as other People received gifts, but because it was too late to discover
the root of the lie to kill. Always been integral to the child's first statement is addressed
and the story expanded, the more you gave him attention, and flattered his vanity, so that
it is believed to have experienced everything in truth and in the participation and the regret
of adults felt comfortable. Her mother had led to the attic, reported Magdalena, but then it
was for fear of cooling down again and had secretly sneaked hiding in the alcove bed. Through
a hole in the curtain she could perceive everything and . Eavesdrop should be stabbed to death
when the old man, the lady was horrified with the green feathers into the chamber through the window
and tried to flee. Bastide Grammont she brought forth, and was kill them. Bancal Colard and
asked for mercy for her and she had a terrible Oath that bound them to silence. A bit later, saw
Grammont, whose suspicions not silent, was also in bed after. Magdalena pretended to be asleep.
He touched twice and then said to her mother, she should see to get rid of the child, what
woman Bancal to four hundred francs promised to do. The next morning the child was again from
the mother field sent, where the father had just dug a deep hole. She believed that the Father may
be they throw, but he embraced her, weeping and exhorted them to piety.

If you doubt, any other witness was prepared to report the child was as irrefutable, and no
one asked afterward how he came about, how the ignorant Being wooed,
bribed, and drunk with applause and affection, or even by fear had
made.

They took off his Alarmed premises benefit by it at night from sleep dragged, and every new
idea was accepted, the girl believed to provide some excellent things and was always willing to
play its role. They formed of such things out of nothing out which were likely to indicate the
fever picture of a strange night of the murder actually light to throw, for example, how the
mother had cut in the morning with the same knife bread, with the stabbed the old man was, and
as Magdalen had rejected the bread because it shuddered before, or as the crucible in the collected
blood to one of the pigs drink, where and how the animal had become wild after that and raced screaming
through the yard.

Bastide Grammont made with cold composure interrogation interrogation to endure. His dry-arrogant
Would be mocking smile, put his silent shrug Monsieur Jausion not
rare embarrassed.

But it happened well that he, carried away by impatience, the judge summarily and snatched the word boldly
and eloquently to the fragile yet indestructible construction of the Evidence was shaking.

"If it was lying in my schedule and interest to get the uncle died, needed then a conspiracy
of so many people?

"he asked about and made the contempt his face flame. "Should I be so stupid and clever with
me brothel farmers, prostitutes, smugglers, old women and punishing criminals team up, people,
the life my masters and Cassandra would have remained, even if was not disclosed to her virtues?
Can be imagine something more senseless, as a man to take on the street and him in a already
suspected to carry home? Why all this? Was there no better opportunity for me? I could not
entice the elderly to the right, shoot him in the woods and bury? I would have forced him
to sign bills of exchange, - where they are, the change? They must yet come to light and expose me.
They say, the house was so Bancalsche neglected, that one of the apartment of the Spaniards
by the rotten boards in room Bancal can look, why has not heard Monsieur Saavedra? Aha, he
slept. Good Or is this sleep in the plot, as my mother, my sister, my love, my faithful servant?
And all admitted to being the Bancalschen spouses enough to help, to kill a weak old man, and
to create aside, I had to have half a dozen suspicious guys from the pubs get? Why did not
my uncle cried? He was gagged, nice, but the gag was found in the yard. Yet he has cried, as
the Gag was removed, and I can play the lyre men. Very clever, with the the lyre men, but make
such noise and barrel organs still attract people to the windows and on the road. And why kill
the victim, as so many strong men have it easy can strangle? Show me the medical report, sir, whether
it by a random and Instead of a crack is not the question. And what nonsense that the funeral
procession, which treacherous institutions in a country where each landmark has eyes! I was
accused of stormed the next morning in my uncle's house to be and to have stolen papers. Where
are these papers? My uncle died almost poor. His call to me, to the President Seguret passed.
So why practice? What do you want from me? He that has eyes, see my hands tainted? "

This language was challenging. They aroused the indignation of the court and the increased Hatred
of the quantity of it was misleading customers. For fear of the people dared not a lawyer, to
assume the defense Bastide Grammont. M. Pinaud, who alone had the courage the improbabilities and
the origin of the most adventurous testimony to point, his zeal for the truth would almost have
to pay with his life.

One night drew a mob, including farmers, in front of his house, smashed the window panes, demolished
the gate and set fire to the stairs. Only with difficulty could the frightened Man into the open
rescue, and he fled to Toulouse.

Well-recognized Bastide Grammont, that for him at first gave no resistance, he decided to transform
all of fortitude and patience to close his lips as if they the doors were, through which escape
could hope. He, the freest of men, had the bright days of spring, the fragrant nights of summer
in a damp Hole match, which made the disgust own breath, he talked
to the animals, which flowers gazing at your eyes, for the earth at
certain times, something like a gloss of love had to go the to walk,
hike, ride artist knew just as adorable Create works, he had to overcome
by a perverse game incomprehensible circumstances a foretaste of the
grave cost and lack what it the deepest and truest of life was.

Often the nights of defiance, where the view over flowed and was dull in thought the shame,
not to frequent the days of dominant desire, where each of the wet wall crumbling grain of sand
on the wonderful work and weaving of the earth, the meadow, the forest reminded. Of the events
that had obscured his fate, he turned in disgust all reflection from, and he barely heard,
when one morning the guard came and told him jubilantly, that to be the mysterious unknown, which
it was intended, principal and chief witness, the lady with the green feathers had finally found
they had made themselves known and it was the daughter of the President Seguret, Madame Clarissa
Mirabel.

Bastide Grammont scowled to herself. But from that moment fluttered round this name be Ear as
the flutter of inevitable fate.

* * * * *

So it was that Madame Mirabel had known that during the night of murder in the house Bancalschen
WAS. But this confession was the urge of a strange moment, and elapsed not as much time as the
nimble rumor needed to be revealed, she took everything back again.

But the word had fallen and had to actually act.

       Clarissa Seguret Mirabel was the only child of the president.

She was educated in the country been in the old castle Perri, who had bought her father at
the dawn of the revolution. The political storms and the uncertainty of the states were to blame,
that in her childhood no regular classes enjoyed. The deep solitude in which she grew up privileged,
their enthusiasm for investment.

They adored their parents and in the troubled times of anarchy showed the fourteen-year-old
virgin in her father's side such a sacrifice and such devotion that she attracted the attention
of Colonel by Mirabel, the then five Years later, and courted her. She loved him not, - just before
she had a strange and romantic Relationship with a shepherd in the area, followed up - but she married
because her father ordered. The marriage was not happy, and after three months, she separated from
her husband, and the Colonel went with the army to Spain. When the war was over, he came back
and gave Clarissa his desire to suggest that she should stay with him, but she refused and said
writing of its refusal, angry that he sent other people to negotiate with her. But she learned Mirabel was
wounded, and this changed her mind. In the night, on hidden Because, under the circumstances,
formal colonel was carried into the castle, and in a remote room Clarissa took care of him
with faithful care. As long as it remained secret, tied the new relationship with the man as a lover,
but the mother discovered everything and believed that the complete reconciliation between the
spouses stand in the way of anything. Clare knew her to remove the man, in a grove near the village they
had nightly meetings with him. Colonel Mirabel but was tired of the strange doings, and he got a job
in Lyon, but died shortly afterwards from the effects of his excesses.

Years passed, the mother died and Clarissa's grief was so great that for days not from the
grave and important to move only through the influence of the father was more easily comforted,
again to bow to the lonely, empty existence. left entirely to themselves, they showed the enjoyment
of reading unelected and their hidden desires were directed to fire on large Experiences. She
brought in by prominent tendencies and habits in the small-town Talk,
they had children and adolescent boys and girls come to the palace,
declaiming them verses and pointed it at the theater.

Their informal character aroused enemies; she said what she thought, injured inadvertently, creates
confusion and gossip all innocence, exaggerating the minor and overlooked the Great liked, sometimes
in disguise, Panels and imaginary roles and charmed yet again by the receptive Grace of her speech,
the mobility of her cheerful spirit, the engaging warmth of your manners.

She was now thirty-five, but not only because they very slim, small and was tender, she looked
like an eighteen-year-old girl, but it was in their nature a deep and unusual youth, and when
her eyes full and thoughtful on a subject rested, it had the clarity and dreamy sweetness
of the children's gaze. It was like a Product of the frontier: southern vivacity and Nordic gravity were
too restless mixture progressed, she brooded like a little animal and like to play, they could
in men of all kinds one to excite awe mingled with desire.

From the flood of rumors about the death of the lawyer Fualdes they remained untouched for Although
her father participated indirectly through the purchase of the domain La Morne in the events appeared
and every day new messages have been carried into the castle. The incident was too complicated
and everything connected with it, smelled too much like dirt. Not until the Name Bastide Grammont
was called, they listened, watched things and was believed the course of Father or by the servants,
with or testified more participation as a surprise.

She knew nothing of Bastide Grammont. Regardless of his name was, as soon as she heard him like a
weight inside her cozy in the end. She began to inquire after him, took secret rides to La Morne,
and brought the one or the other of his people about him talking, so once she managed even to
speak to Charlotte Arlabosse which at that time already was again
at liberty.

What she heard, produced in her a strange, painful Amazement, she felt as if she had missed an
important meeting.

Added to this, they suddenly remembered having seen him. He must have been, when the confused
descriptions of his person only half understood correctly. It was a Year was before, early
one morning in early spring.

Driven by the general unrest, by the awakening of spring stirs the blood and sleep faster than
otherwise terminated, had left the palace and was walking through the vineyard trails in the
wooded valley of Rolx moved. And while they walked through the sonnebeglänzten, damp thickets, over
the cheering of the songbirds and the glowing blue of the celestial sphere, among them like
a Abdominal breathing earth, she had observed a man of mighty limbs, who stood erect, bareheaded,
his nose in the air and with a supernatural desire, with eyes wide open enjoyed what was just
to enjoy: the smells, the sun, the heady moisture, shine of the ether. He seemed to smell it
all, he sniffed like a dog or like a deer however, be pointed upward and inward-face an unleashed,
laughing satisfaction trembling arms hanging down in convulsions.

At that time, Clark had feared they had escaped without that she noticed no that he was the rustling
of the branches and heard the sound of her steps. Now won the picture different meaning. Often
when she was alone, she gave herself to the painting that hour: how
they opposed the eccentric, he through a deeply calculated play of
questions to answer Reply from the defiant lips as he robbed and then,
unable to adjust for longer, unlocked his heart on his own instinct.

And one night he came on wild horse penetrated into Castle, took it and rode with her about
it, so fast that it seemed as if the storm be Servant and as if spurred his horse by the storm.
If the speech at the dinner table or in company Bastide on Grammont came and his undoubted
murder of all debt, dealt Clarissa Never use the horror of the fact that such a man for ever
from the Community had to separate the good, but, surrounded by voluptuous haze, she felt the
effect of a Force, a heroic gesture, the truth of existence and the certainty of the achievable
Close to that figure, the fear of their dreams is not soft anymore. She was frightened about
themselves, they wondered down into the depths of the dreaded own breast, and often felt as
if she were, herself in prison and as he went, Bastide, outside and down and sense of means to break
the door, while his winged horse neighing triumphantly.
  He was almost stunned by the report and roar, together with an unwonted shock
that sent him reeling backward.

We know not how a good twist-barrelled gun would behave if its muzzle were thus stopped, but
the common Indian gun used on this occasion was not meant to be thus treated.  It was blown
to pieces, and Ian stood gazing in speechless surprise at the fragment of wood remaining in
his hand.  How far it had injured the bear he could not tell, but the shot had not apparently
abated its power one jot, for it still heaved upwards in a paroxysm of rage, and with such
force as nearly to overthrow the complex erection that held it down.  Evidently there was no
time to lose.

Ian drew his axe, grasped it with both hands, raised himself on tiptoe, and brought it down
with all his might on the bear's neck.

The grizzly bear is noted for tenacity of life.  Ian had not hit the neck-bone.  Instead of
succumbing to the tremendous blow, it gave the handle of the axe a vicious twist with its paw,
which jerked the hunter violently to the ground.  Before he could recover himself, the claws
which he coveted so much were deep in his right thigh.  His presence of mind did not forsake
him even then.  Drawing his scalping-knife, he wrenched himself round, and twice buried the
keen weapon to the haft in the bear's side.

Just then an unwonted swimming sensation came over Ian; his great strength seemed suddenly
to dissipate, and the bear, the claw collar, even Elsie, faded utterly from his mind.

The stars were shining brightly in the calm sky, and twinkling with pleasant tranquillity down
upon his upturned countenance when consciousness returned to Ian Macdonald.

"Ah, Vic!" he murmured, with a long sad sigh; "I've had such a splendid dream!"

"Come, that's right, old boy.  Here, have another mouthful," said Victor, holding a tin can
to his friend's lips.  "It's only tea, hot and strong--the best thing in the world to refresh
a wounded man; and after such a fight--"

"What!" exclaimed Ian, starting and sitting bolt upright, while he gazed in the faces of his
two comrades.  "Is it true?  Have I killed the-- the--grizzly?"

"Killed him!" exclaimed Victor, rising; "I should think you have."

"Killed 'im!" echoed Rollin.  "You's killed 'im two or tree time over; vy, you's axed 'im,
stabbed 'im, shotted 'im, busted 'im, squashed 'im-- ho!--"

"Am I much damaged?" inquired Ian, interrupting, for he felt weak.

"Oh! no--noting whatsocomever.  Only few leetil holes in you's legs.  Be bedder in a veek."

"Look here," said Victor, kneeling beside the wounded man and presenting to him a piece of
wood on which were neatly arranged a row of formidable claws.  "I knew you would like to see them."

"How good of you, Vic!  It was thoughtful of you, and kind.  Put them down before me--a little
nearer--there,--so."

Ian gazed in speechless admiration.  It was not that he was vain of the achievement; he was
too sensible and unselfish for that; but it was such a pleasure to think of being able, after
all, and in spite of his bad shooting, to present Elsie with a set of claws that were greatly
superior to those given to her mother by Louis Lambert--the finest, in short, that he had ever
seen.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

A CUNNING DEVICE ENDS IN FAILURE FOLLOWED BY DESTRUCTION.

In a previous chapter it has been told how the long hard winter of that year, (1826), had passed
away, after an unwontedly severe tussle with the spring.  The prophets of the land now began
to hold up their heads and look owlishly wise, for their predictions were evidently about to
be fulfilled.

Had not old Sam Ravenshaw said all through the winter that "something would come of it"?  Was
it not the daily remark of Angus Macdonald that such a state of things, "could not go on for
ever--whatever"?  Had not Peegwish glared prophecy with a degree of solemnity that rendered
words not only impossible, but unnecessary? and had not Miss Trim asserted that dreadful consequences
of some sort were sure to follow?

Dreadful consequences did follow, and they began with a fine warm day. For a considerable time
the fields of snow had been subjected to the influence of the blazing sun, and had been greatly
diminished in depth. The day in question, however, was so very warm that Louis Lambert was
induced to take his horse and gun with a view to wolf-hunting on the plains.  The hard crust
formed on the snow's surface by the partial meltings of early spring is sufficiently strong
to bear the weight of a wolf, but will not support a horse.  Wolves, therefore, roam about
with ease and at will at that period, while horses are obliged to keep to beaten tracks.  When,
however, the thaws set in, the case is reversed. The wolf, with his short limbs, flounders
laboriously in the drifts of soft snow, while the horse, with his long and powerful legs, can
gallop in spite of these.  Thus wolf-hunting becomes, for a time, possible.

Louis Lambert was fond of the chase.  He was also fond of courting, and, resolving to combine
the two, galloped away to the abode of old Ravenshaw.  He had been there so often of late that
he felt half ashamed of this early morning visit.  Lovers easily find excuses for visits. 
He resolved to ask if Herr Winklemann had been seen passing that morning, as he wished his
companionship on the plains--the shallow deceiver!

"Good-morning, Cora," he said, on entering the hall.

Elsie, who stood at the window with her back to the door, turned quickly round.

"Oh, I beg pardon," he said, with a slightly confused air; "I thought you were Cora, and--"

"Well," interrupted Elsie, with a hurt look that accorded ill with a twinkle in her eyes; "I
think you might know the difference between me and Cora by this time, though you only saw my back."

"Ah, Elsie!" returned the youth, as he shook hands, "you ought in fairness to make allowance
for the effects of spring.  You know full well that the glare of the sun on the snow half blinds
a fellow, so that even when, when--"

"Come, now, don't search about in your empty brain for one of your unmeaning compliments, but
say at once what brings you here at so early an hour.  Has a war party of Sioux come down on
us, or is the river about to break up?"

"War-parties of Sioux are no doubt prowling about the plains somewhere," returned Lambert,
with a smile, "and the ice will go soon if this heat continues; but neither of these things
brought me here.  The truth is, I came to ask if Winklemann has been seen to pass your windows
this morning?"

"The truth?" repeated Elsie, with a searching look.

"Well," replied the youth, with a laugh, "I came also to see you and-- and--Cora."

"And father also, I suppose?"

"Why, Elsie, you are unusually sharp this morning; but I really do wish to know if Winklemann
has been seen, because he had left home when I passed his house, and I want him to hunt with me."

"Then I may tell you that he passed our window not ten minutes before your arrival, going in
the direction of the Lower Fort.  He rides fast, as you know, so if you would catch him up
you must follow quickly."

The young man stood for a moment undecided, then, perceiving that Elsie gave him no encouragement
to remain, he bade her adieu and rode away.

"Louis is remarkably fond of coming here," said Elsie to Cora, who entered the room a few minutes
later, "but he did not come to see us this morning.  He only came to ask after Herr Winklemann."

Cora laughed, but gave no further evidence of the state of her mind.

Just then Peegwish the Indian entered.  He walked towards the sisters with that solemn dignity
of manner peculiar to the North American savage, but the intensified solemnity of his looks
and a certain unsteadiness in his gait rather marred the dignity.

"Peegwish," said Elsie, going towards him with a grieved look, "you have been drinking beer again."

The Indian protested, in very bad English, that he had not tasted beer since the previous Christmas;
whereupon Elsie proceeded to administer an earnest reproof to the muddled hypocrite, for she
was really anxious to save him from the destruction which had already overtaken many of his
red brethren through the baleful influence of fire-water; but Peegwish was just then in no
condition to appreciate her remarks.  To all she said his only reply was that he wanted "bally."

"You want bally?" returned Elsie, with a puzzled look.

"Yis--bally," he repeated, and a gleam of indescribable slyness broke like a sunbeam on his
solemn visage as he said it.

"What can he mean by bally, Cora?"

"Perhaps he means barley."

"Ho!" exclaimed the Indian, with emphasis, by which he meant, "You're right." I
do not remember it was the dainty little girl who attracted me, or was it the old box, I was
allowed to inspect the rare pieces in specially favored hour with her; the golden Schaumuenzen,
the silk, painted fans or on top of the tower of the Casket, the two pagodas of Chinese porcelain,
already from the hallway through the window Stubentuer of my eyes went up. On Saturday afternoon,
I placed myself on a regular basis On to the woman with the small Ratmann Anne Lene invite to Sunday
on the coffee, which was up to the last time before her death as regularly adopted by it. On
Precise clock for three days afterwards and then put his coach in front of our monastery heavy
porch; our Maegde lifted the old lady and her grandson out of the car, and my mother led them
in the hard room of the house, even from the scent of coffee and sonntaeglichen Cookies were
met. If the envelope were then stored and towels and the two Women had taken opposite to the
clean room tables were served, we Children are committed to a Nebentischchen and received our
share of the "egg Dunning and "Bieschen", or whatever else might be called the beautiful things.
I, however, when I this Sunday afternoon, remember when I had never been unfortunate in the
experiments, umzuschuetten my coffee from the top in the saucer, and I still feel the strict
Looks to me hinuebersandte from the old lady from her seat, while my mother my little playmate
to the pattern sets up, which I do not remember that she ever stained the napkin while drinking
or her white dress would have.

Such a Sunday afternoon, following a period of some years in this
way voruebergegangen were, I particularly stuck in my memory .-- I
had the pleasant consciousness of the holy day in our court and was
finally gets tossed about in the wash house at the end of it was.

 For some days past they had been in this condition,
but his supply was exhausted, and people who knew his propensity refused to give him more.
Peegwish, therefore, being a somewhat resolute savage, resolved to adopt a course which would
render him independent.  Chuckling to himself at the depth and cunning of his intended course
of action, he went among the farmers begging for "bally"!  Some to whom he appealed treated
him facetiously, others turned him away from their doors, being too anxious about the impending
flood to listen to him.  At last he found a soft-hearted soul in the person of Michel Rollin's
mother, old Liz, who dwelt in a very small log-hut on a knoll at a considerable height above
the river.

"What d'ee want wi' the barley?" demanded old Liz, who, besides being amiable, had a feeling
of kindness for the man with whom her absent son had for years been in the habit of hunting.

"To heat 'im," replied the Indian.

"To eat it," echoed the sturdy little woman; "weel, come in.  I can spare some, but dinna mak'
a noise, Daddy's sleepin'."

The savage entered with solemn though wavering caution.  Old though she was, Liz had a living
father.  He was so very ancient, that if he had dwelt in Egypt he would probably have been
taken for a live mummy.  He sat in the chimney corner, in an arm-chair to which Liz had tied
him to prevent his falling into the fire.  He smiled and nodded at the fire when awake, and
snored and nodded at it when asleep.  Beyond this, and a grateful recognition of his daughter's
attentions, he did and said nothing.  Gazing at Daddy, Peegwish fell into an owlish reverie,
from which he was aroused by old Liz putting a small sack of barley on the ground before him.
The Indian received it with thanks, threw it on his shoulder, and with an expression of unalterable
determination on his visage, returned to his own home.

The home of Peegwish was dilapidated like himself.  It stood on a portion of ground belonging
to Angus Macdonald, and was very near to the river's brink.  It was a mere log-cabin of the
smallest dimensions, having one low door and one glassless window.  The window also served
the purpose of a chimney.  Its furniture was in keeping with its appearance--a stool, a couple
of blankets, two little heaps of brushwood for beds, a kettle or two, a bag of pemmican, an
old flint gun, two pairs of snow-shoes, a pair of canoe-paddles, a couple of very dirty bundles,
and an old female.  The latter was the dirtiest piece of furniture in the establishment.  She
was sister to Peegwish, and was named by him Wildcat.

Despite appearances, the hut was comfortably warm, for Wildcat--who, to do her justice, had
been grossly misnamed--was fond of heat.  She devoted the chief part of her existence to the
collection of fuel, most of the remainder being spent in making moccasins, etcetera, and cooking.

"Put on the pot, Wildcat," said Peegwish on entering, as he threw down the sack of barley.

The woman obeyed with alacrity.  The fire burned on the earthen floor in primitive style. 
Erecting three sticks over it in the tripod form, she hung a pot therefrom, filled it with
water, and awaited further orders. Knowing her brother's cast of mind well, she refrained from
questioning, though she perceived from the peculiar cunning of his looks that something unusual
occupied his mind.  Peegwish saw that Wildcat's curiosity was aroused, and resolved to keep
it in that condition.  He had learned the fact that beer was made from barley, and had resolved,
thenceforth, to brew his own beer; but no hint of this did he permit to escape him.  He even
went to the other extreme, and became unusually communicative on subjects remote from beer.
He told how that the people up the river were being frightened by the rise in the water; how
he had met Lambert and Winklemann going to hunt wolves; how these Nimrods had been obliged
to change their minds and turn back for the purpose of looking after their property; and, in
short, he wandered as far from the subject of beer and brewing as possible.

His reference to the rise of the river, however, turned Wildcat's thoughts to the fact that
the ice in their immediate neighbourhood had been forced up in a manner that caused her some
anxiety.  She mentioned her fears to Peegwish, but that worthy was too deeply immersed in his
experiments just then to care much for anything else.  To her remarks he merely replied by
a solemn shake of the head and an owlish gaze into the big pot.

Soon the water in the pot began to boil.  Peegwish put in a large proportion of barley, lighted
his pipe, and sat down to await the result with the patience of a Stoic.  Wildcat sat beside
him with equal patience.  An hour passed, Peegwish dipped a wooden spoon into the pot and tasted.
The result was not satisfactory--it burnt his lips.  He let the spoonful cool, and tried again.
The liquid was marvellously like barley-broth, with which delicacy he was well acquainted.
Another hour passed; again he dipped the spoon, and again met with disappointment, for his
brew was not yet beer.  The sun went down, the moon arose, the stars came out, and still Peegwish
and Wildcat sat watching and dozing over the big pot.

At last the former bade the latter watch alone while he slept.  He lay back where he sat and
slumbered instantly.  Wildcat obeyed orders by heaping fresh logs on the fire and following
suit.  They snored in concert.

The night advanced; the uneasy grindings of the ice increased; the tinkling of a thousand snow-born
rills filled the air with liquid melody.  The sub-glacial murmuring of many waters filled many
hearts with anxious care, and numerous households near the river's brink sat up the live-long
night to watch--perhaps to pray.  Intermittent cracking of the ice kept up the sound, as it
were, of spattering musketry, and occasional loud reports were interspersed like the thunder
of heavy guns.

At grey dawn Peegwish awoke, looked slowly round, observed his sister asleep, and seized her
by the nose.  She awoke, rose hastily, and stirred the fire.  An inspection of the big pot
showed that its contents had become barley porridge.  Even Peegwish's imagination failed to
regard it as beer.  But Peegwish had been somewhat sobered by his sleep. Hearing the ominous
sounds on the river he jumped up and ran outside. The sight that presented itself was sufficiently
alarming.  During the night the water had risen six feet, and the ice had been raised to a
level with the floor of the Indian's hut.  But this was not the worst. A short tongue of land
just above the hut had up to that time formed a sort of breakwater to the dwelling.  Now, however,
the ice had been forced quite over the barrier by the irresistible pressure behind, and even
while he gazed a great wedge of ice, nearly five feet thick and several yards in length, was
being reared up like a glittering obelisk, and forced slowly but surely down upon the hut.

Peegwish had not recovered from his first surprise when the obelisk broke off by its own weight
and fell in a mass of ruins, whilst the ice behind kept thrusting with terrible force towards him.

If Peegwish was sluggish by nature his malady was evidently not incurable.  He uttered a shout,
and leaped back into his hut like a panther.  His sister came out, gave one glance at the river,
became wild-cattish for the first time in her life, and sprang after her brother.

A few seconds later and the pair reappeared, bearing some of their poor possessions to a place
of safety higher up the bank.  They returned for more, and in a very few minutes had the whole
of their worldly wealth removed from their doomed edifice.  Then they sat down on the bank,
and sadly watched the destruction of their home.

From their point of view they could see that the main body of ice on the river was still unbroken,
and that it was merely a huge tongue, or needle, which had been thrust up at that point by
the form of the land above referred to. Don Philip, who had a lot of fun to watch and some idle hour
had shortened it, a fine-knit frame work set apart gently, had the master held in high estimation.
The Infanta caused him to come and gave him a Order to Mr. Symon was very embarrassed and gave
him a headache. He namely, should make a work that one could close in the breast of the corpse
and mimic the beat of the living heart could. After some reflection promised Symon Longin
to do his best and the princess asked him a reward of two thousand Doubloons in view.

At the end of two weeks, the master brought the ingenious pendulum
movement.

The back of the body was cut and pushed the mechanism in the left side of chest. Under the Shoulder
was a pen with a turntable mounted, that means the work again was set in motion when it expired
after twenty-four hours. When Johanna first her ear on the dress of the dead lay, and heard
the thud miraculously, she closed eyes as they listen to the music of angelic choirs. Half the
night she lay and listened; the left hand was pressed to the own heart and had a blissful
sense of harmony, if its natural beating was done with that man in the same breaks.

The thing got around and increased the horror of the Infanta, more
and more.

She had to meditate, to escape from the general hustle and said those who at funeral of the body
implored that she wanted to bring the body of the Duke after his home and his in the cathedral
of St. Stephen were buried here. This was Philip's compatriots agreed, and they created a small
party in favor of the Lady. Johanna was selected among the servants, and few, the faithful,
but many who were greedy, - for they did not pay the money - offered themselves voluntarily to
to move in where they may. They also recruited a hundred mercenaries to high wage and had horses
and mules procured it.

Thus equipped, she went on the trip. It was like a race with time or as it would irritate the
time to greater speed. The words of the monk they remained mindful at all Hour.

       * * * * *

On the day of St. Catherine, before night, left the Infanta Burgos, moved to Arragon in the mountains,
came the morning in a heavy storm before the lock Armedilla, and in the very next night it went
on: by Olmedo, by Escalona and San Francisco, Village to village
on the desolate valleys to the north.

Four mules carried the coffin, twenty-four men were riding with torches in their hands to him to
the side. Terrible was the appearance of these men, their faces black from coal Flammenruß.
In many places, people holed up at the sight of the horrible turn. Even under Joan's own people
to spread a dark, foreboding atmosphere, and some secretly taken
to flight.

Others said they wanted to inspect a city that went and did not return.

Before the coffin with his aides rode with a black cloth with holes for the eyes front of the
face. On the flag burning in golden letters the word Nondum not yet.

By day granted to the huts of the peasants, the homes of men rest and stay. Johanna preferred places
in the level where you could take the view distance, before they are too short Sleeping next
to Philip embedded. She did not love flowers near her for fear that then might make fleeting forget
their senses powerless. She gave no goal, because it appeared it to her, as if Philip dictate the
direction and path. Relocating to the east, west or north, it was the same when only the days
went down to the future. While the world is locked in her Ear knocked in vain, she collected
in her breast lives. The dead man was cleared of all blame; they even had him for the responsibilities
of being taken over. In advance they adorned His eyes glow with those with which he would thank her
for the freedom and ease his soul. Once they had wanted monstrous, her arrogant dream had asked
him, that he is a God like, and now she wanted nothing more than a man, and they languished to
the emptiest of his boyish looks and his gestures as he once she to languished on the sick bed
had the sense of love. The blue sky it was nothing, they only had the blue eyes of Philip see
it, the sweet scent of Burgundian gardens nothing except he seemed
to hint at his mouth, no pain was out of the its early lost to the
Life, not a thing was worth considering in addition to the frozen
corpse's face.

Among their companions was a man who was devoted to her deep in the heart. His name was Jan
Dalaunes and was a former falconer, which has been shot during a hunting one eye. Since then
had He devoted himself to poetry, where he supported his melancholy disposition, and He also
wrote pieces of spiritual content. He knew of Joan's brazen faces enclosed to read off the fatigue
that they concealed themselves, and he became a bold speaker, if it was necessary to placate the increasingly
active rebellion of the mercenaries. The silent night Hiking with a corpse, in whose breast a
wheel of life imitating the blow darkened, the spirit of the people. But it came from that
harsh, war-usual boys suffering from cramps were turned when the midnight storm, the trees, or that
they cried like mad when the wisp danced across the sea and the moon-green veil spun on the
rock.

They breathed on, and the first morning light colored the East, and when it in after months
of Flanders Area came, they left the service of the Infanta.

January Dalaunes persuaded the lady to stay in the city of Ghent. He contributed in his still
sense the hope that they would have for her son Carlos and his desire cured by the sight of unfathomable
sadness to be finding. But his account went wrong. The Earl of Croy, who had offered her apartment in
his palace, in front of her appeared and asked them if they desire to see the young prince,
as it flashed in Joan's Face, as if a torch passes through a dark room. But then she said, shaking
his head and cold expression she did not want to see Don Carlos.

The words of the monk rose like guards in its interior, although her only as a formula against
the hostile andri following World needed.

She shut herself in her apartment to see nothing but their dead to hear as the full knock illusion
of the movement. Yes, between illusion and vision, she was in a spasm of pain, and half was half-pleasure.
She must be wife to love Phil, Man to him once again bear witness and mother to give birth to
him again. She had in recreate the body produce childhood and youth, the awakening mind with
all the memories must therefore, fill, forget nothing of what keeps such a royal life and contributes
They even he himself, thus arises between the unit and that of Philip of once Future and, like
all debt, even the terrible state of non-being be wiped out from his mind. to accomplish this, still,
alone, the people understand, even seemingly God also offenders demanded
superhuman effort and had the blood in incessant Fever run drive through
the veins.

Spring, summer and autumn passed the second time in that period, the young king Karl was very ill.
Once he was in fact the night was bright, a arrived read despatch of minor importance. Its governor,
who according to Roman principles educated, was adamant that he get used to, despite his extreme
youth of the business. When the boy through a dark corridor into a room reached in which only a
dull Traffic light was burning, he stopped because he thought he
had lost his way and listened without attempting to a conversation
between two servants, who crouched in a niche.

"Do you know then, that the Spanish queen is here," asked one, sleepy, yawning. And the other
replied, "So? is here? I knew it not "fit the first". It is the mother of our young gentleman.
A poor woman, "And again the other".

Why do not they live in Son? "-" The bad conscience is to blame, "whispered the first," but
she has her Lord and Husband with poison forgiven.

"

A low cry broke the terrifying. The boy was thrown to the ground. He had be carried away and was
long prostrate.

Many weeks later, the Count of Croy a great masked ball, which lasted three days. The music
and the laughter of the guests rang up in the rooms of the Infanta. When Jan Dalaunes ago
his mistress appeared, he was shocked, because it ransacked and excited, he had never seen. They
raced through the room, always across from corner to corner, holding his hands against their
ears pressed. Apparently the game of the flutes and violins was to blame. The falconer was
addition, consulted with the Castilians Antonio Vacca, what to do, then returned both and Jan Dalaunes
suggested the Infanta to follow him in the Luxembourg Palace, the
only a few blocks was removed.

Joan, painfully afflicted, had half a mind to want to go. But first they approached the body
of Philip bent down embraced, the dead, whispered in his ear, kissed the waxen forehead, smiled
reassuringly, like a mother if she has to leave the baby, turned at last, with pale eyes shining
on the two Men said, and cheerful tone: "He is already beginning to dream."

Then she left, turned deep inside. And so, weaving inside, they walked in the Luxembourg Palace over
a hallway filled with gloom, when suddenly the Castilians before the open Door of a hall stopped
and stretched out his arm, smiling. Before an oblong table There was a stout man in a white
ruff and Samthabit and beside him, a book in the Hand, sat a boy of about ten years.

Donna Joan slowly raised her heavy eyelids and looked into it.

By Marie glass the narrow window was bent a yellowish glow beads in the silent room. "Who
is the boy, "asked Johanna oppressed. Antonio Vacca responded with the same zealous Smile, "It's
your son Karl, Donna Noble, and the worthy Mr Cernio is with him,
the best Grammaticus far and wide.

I myself have the honor of his Highness in law to teach. "

Whispering joined the Castilians at the table.

The boy got up and walked gravely the threshold. Then he stood before his mother, motionless,
narrow face, pale, silent and melancholy.

       

A crowded According to Joan's lips. She felt as chest and abdomen were filled with fire. Already
she wanted to talk because they thought there in time to the words of the monk: to forget each
own their own pain and every joy.

Silent and cool, she nodded to the boy, turned and walked away. With deeply sunken Main followed
her to the faithful Falkner January Dalaunes.

* * * * *

Three days later, Donna Joan left town and moved with the Flemish
mercenaries downlines up the Rhine to Cologne and Mainz and francs
to the Danube and on, for weeks and months, summer and winter, and
sometimes during the day and more often at night.

Here and there took her stay, she stayed in Regensburg eight months to Landshut in six, in Augsburg
five. to go to the court of the Emperor did not dare. The castles of the nobles gave their
good Accommodations, for it was known that she was worth with royal gifts. had to Memmingen they
built a chapel and an entire church in Ulm. It was her comforting, in this country to bore the
many rivers, mountains and beautiful lakes, often seemed a piece
of Philip's soul to rest in the mild air, and when spring came, they
had to double Power close to not participate in the sweet awakening
of nature.

She avoided places where the people flocked in joy, and if a child's face innocently happy she
turned, she closed her eyes. Therefore they also loved most of the to travel at night, because
as things and people died away and the flames of the torches as fire victim radiated out of
the coffin of their beloved Lord. Insensitive to wind and rain, neither Toil nor shunning deprivation,
they drove before him like a lame dog.

Years flowed past on year. Johanna they did not count on the calendar, but tailor it to their Hope.
But over time there is such strange: she has a witness to the truth in itself, which even the
umschlossensten senses can not be hid. Johanna took a Picture counter, and the more she thought
of approaching him, the more it will shrink and and of all the wasted flame of the heart,
she was not rich, yes, her heart was finally the pale jellyfish being washed up the ocean at the
beach, shivering as she stood there The last shreds of their poverty
by the quivering shoulders dropped.

Philip! Who was Philip? the very name seemed to merge, and there was still a man on earth, whose name
was so, so He certainly was but the shadow of itself and although it the lifeless image of Philip's
Body saw daily rest before her, she lost the memory of him and did not know how he looked like
and what he said, knew nothing of the color of his eyes and the shape
of its Hands and she was fearful and anxious, as it so his name dragged
through the country, nothing more than his name.

The darkness in it, as it lost its limitations, covered Heaven, earth and water filled the creation
with icy, bottomless grief.

In the Rhaetian mountain Dalaunes ill in January and remained in a village. Only in the Savoy the
devoted husband took a mistress, and came just in time to the mercenaries
and servants to encourage and cheer when they refused, in the evening
over a snowy pass to migrate.

It was a scary storm, as they reached the heights. The foremost lost the way and sank deep into
the snow. Some lay there exhausted, fell asleep and froze to death. The torches were extinguished
and fortunately discovered the anticipatory January Dalaunes the hut of a Shepherds. That they found
refuge, which could still save, the coffin remained outside and was fed by the snow is blowing.

During
the night woke January Dalaunes, felt his way to the door of the
bad breath of the sleepers filled room and went out.

Afraid for the lady had frightened his slumber.

The sky was clear and the stars twinkled in sublime beauty and tranquility.

On a remote Snow field turned up the Milky Way on the dark blue vault like frozen smoke. Between
two mighty crags greenish glistening ice, immense yawning gaps.

Sometimes came a cutting cold wind blow and the snow whirled up into thin luminous columns.
There was a silence, which the breath was falter.

In the uncertain light Dalaunes January saw the lady. She sat on a low wooden block, had his
arms wrapped around his knees and stared into the frozen look mighty
silence.

She seemed not to feel the cold. A horse blanket enveloped her shoulders.

"You müsset sick, Donna Noble," said Jan Dalaunes by approached. The Infanta did not answer.

    The Falconer went back inside
    and picks together chips
    and sticks. Then he came back
    and went on a snow-free location fire.

    The sympathy with the lady
    he choked the throat and as he
    always threw more wood into the
    flames aufprasselnden was his bearded Face ravaged by grief formally.

    It urged the words on his lips:
    verses he once heard or read
    or dreamed of.
    

    "What do you say that?" He suddenly
    heard the dark voice of
    the lady. Her face had on the
    ceiling schneebewehten strange and dark as the face of a sphinx he
turned down.

    He biased shook his head and knelt
    down before the fire. After
    a while came the strange Words
    flowing dream again.

Where the mist silver bow through a glacier wall brought up and solemnly there is my desire country.

I
saw icy forms, shivering in the frost-ray grünkristallne candles hold dancing in the white room.

I
saw one that oppressed only the jacket hem moves and their hearts taken from the table, of the
whole sky with.

As in the sleep they keep the heavy Purple ball up softly, and it opens the sphere God's arm
is stretched out.
He receives the life shell But that is happy, looks down to the valley,
where a boy picking flowers.

Silently rolled approached a bluish
cloud of snow dust and left again.

Since Joan's head fell forward
on something. As if to keep it, she put her hands to her face while
she burst into a terrible cry. It sounded like the muffled beat of
a Hammers on a hollow wall. Irresistibly, she had the pain for his
own life to destroyed his own soul taken. It was as if her heart until
now by an artificial Mechanism obtained in motion that now threatened
to fail.

She felt the power of memory entirely vanish from her mind,
she felt only in itself, only to its own immense grief, she took it
like flames of a pyre she screamed and struggled, and as a lunatic,
she was taken from her people to the valley.  Everywhere near
the river houses were to be seen standing several feet deep in water, while their owners were
either engaged in conveying their contents in boats and canoes to the nearest eminences, or
removing them from such eminences in carts to spots of greater security.  Some of the owners
of these deserted houses had become so reckless or so despairing under their misfortunes, that
they offered to sell them for merely nominal sums.  It is said that some of them changed hands
for so small a sum as thirty shillings or two pounds.

Cantering round the corner of a fence, Lambert came within a hundred yards of a house round
which the water was deep enough to float a large boat.  Here he observed his friends, John
Flett and David Mowat, embarking household goods into a large canoe out of the parlour window.
Riding into the water, Lambert hailed them.

"Hallo, Flett, d'ee want help?"

"Thank 'ee, no; this is the last load.  Got all the rest down to the church; the minister is
lettin' us stow things in the loft."

"You're in too great haste, Flett," returned Lambert.  "The water can't rise much higher; your
place is sure to stand."

"Not so sure o' that, Louis; there's a report brought in by a redskin that all the country
between the sources of the Assinaboine and Missouri is turned into a sea, and the waters o'
the Missouri itself are passing down to Lake Winnipeg.  He says, too, that a whole village
of redskins has been swept away."

"Bah! it's not true," said Lambert.

"True or false," rejoined Flett, resuming his work, "it's time for me to clear out o' this."

Forsaking the road, which he had hitherto attempted to follow, Lambert now stretched out at
full gallop into the plains.  He came to a small creek and found that the simple wooden bridge
had been washed away, and that the waters of the river were driving its tiny current in the
wrong direction.  In a fit of impatience he applied the whip to his steed, which, being a fiery
one, rushed furiously at the creek.  Fire does not necessarily give an untrained horse power
to leap.  The animal made an awkward attempt to stop, failed, made a still more awkward attempt
to jump, failed again, and stumbled headlong into the creek, out of which he and his master
scrambled on the opposite side.

Lambert shook himself, laughed, leaped into the saddle, and went off again at full speed. 
He came to the mission station, but did not stop there.  It still stood high above the waters,
and was crowded with settlers.  Not far from it was a spot of rising ground, which was covered
with more than a hundred tents and wigwams belonging to Canadian and half-breed families. 
Passing on, he came upon other scenes of destruction, and finally arrived at the abode of old
Mr Ravenshaw.  It, like the mission premises, still stood high above the rising flood.  The
family were assembled in the chief sitting-room, old Ravenshaw enjoying a pipe, while the ladies
were variously occupied around him.

"You've heard the report brought by the Indian about the flood, I fancy?"

"Oh, yes; but I give no ear to reports," said the old gentleman, emitting an indignant puff
of smoke; "they often end like that."

"True; nevertheless, it's as well to be prepared," said Lambert, with a glance at Elsie and
Cora, who sat together near the window; "and I've come to beg for house-room for my goods and
chattels, for the old house is not so safe as I had thought."

"There's plenty of room in the barn for people in distress," said Elsie, with a glance at her
sister.

"Or in the cow-house," added Cora, with a laugh and a slight toss of her head; "we've had the
cattle removed on purpose to make room for you."

"How considerate!  And the cow-house of Willow Creek, with its pleasant associations, is a
palace compared to the hall of any other mansion," said the gallant Louis.

A crash was heard outside just then.  On looking from the windows, a great cake of ice about
five feet thick, with a point like a church spire, was seen attempting, as it were, to leap
the lower end of the garden-fence.  It failed; but on making a second attempt was more successful.
The fence went slowly down, and the spire laid its head among the vegetables, or rather on
the spot where the vegetables would have been had the season been propitious.  It was accompanied
by a rush of water. The human faces fades away except one, a heroic awarded suffering,
one that sits high in spite of guilt and condemnation over the other, yes shone through as his
guilt by his defiance. And when the day came when we told her that she should confront Bastide
Grammont, to accuse him eye to eye, knocked her pulse for the first time in joyous shock, and
she dressed as if for a feast.

The meeting was held in the office room of the judge. Apart from Monsieur and his Jausion Writers
was present, the Council Pinaud, who had returned. Monsieur Jausion threw him over his glasses across a
mischievous look, as Clarissa Mirabel lace adorned come rushing, with a smile bowed before the Lord
and then her eyes with cheerful serenity wander through the inhospitable space left. looked out
of a picture frame in the middle of the wall the fat and morose face of the King down on them,
so annoyed when he was each of his subjects especially repugnant. She forgot that her only a
picture hung and saw a game kokettschmollenden up their lips.

The judge gave a signal, a side door was opened and justice between two soldiers, with hands
tied together in came Bastide Grammont.

Clark drove in a quiet Cry out and her face was pale.

To Bastide breathed air prison. The related wild hair, long beard grown, the rigid, somewhat
dazzled look, easy to load carrier bent reminiscent of the giant figure, the secret convulsive
rage on freshly furrowed brow, not denied all the basic and Origin. Yes, he seemed invisible
walls around him to take the breast with his Darkness and pain filled and from month to month
with the paintings of the gloss hoffnungsloserm Freedom were, until she finally refused, a flowering
tree, an exuberant Vorzulügen field, then they were like the dreary gray of an autumn evening
when the air is smell of the winter, the hearse at the garden more often than usual by little
after Kirchhof rattled and flaming the rising half-moon like a bleeding,
shared giant heart swam over the moist Azur.

Yet this proud eye, which sparkled in the decision to stay true to yourself? Yet this strange
crackling mockery in the mines, which the cautious while majestic Crouch caught the tiger cat was comparable?
This infinite contempt with which he looked at the read-ready hands
of the writer, the great inner freedom and Unleashed, despite the
handcuffs and the two soldiers?

That was what drew Clarissa and the cry of the foolish mirth from her face chased. Not because
they see the forest bound man and Erddämon of the past and broken had to, but because they knew
how to flashing lights, that this hand no knife murder could have made that such an act did
not touch the circle of his nature, though he Perhaps this would have been capable of, and that all
this was for nothing now, an obscure Noise and madness, the obscure horror itself, a spectacle
of hypocrisy and disease. It took her a fraud, as if they fell down from a high tower. She was ashamed
in their splendid dress, the challenging surface, and in passionate boil they tore the lace on the
sleeves and tossed it with a grimace of painful Disgust to the ground.

Monsieur

Jausion could interpret it differently. Again he smiled at Mr. Pinaud, but this time triumphantly,
as if to say: the example is correct. "Do you know this lady, Bastide Grammont?" "He turned to the
prisoners. Bastide turned his head to one side and a look of careless and bitter contempt Clarissa
went through and through. "I do not know them," said He gloomily, "I've never seen it."

And recently smiled Monsieur Jausion how to correct a temporary error and whispered, "This is
not quite possible, Madame Mirabel, then in men's clothing and a hat with green feathers,
was in the apartment and is Bancalschen on by you the Road has been conducted where they took
their oath. I beg to recall at it. "

Bastides face pulled together as before the annoying intrusion of a fly and he vigorous and repeated
loudly: "I do not know the lady. I have never seen. "And the clenching of his lips betrayed
the unwavering intent, from now on .

Silent

Monsieur Jausion adjusted his wig, and looked anxiously out. "What you have to be , Counter Madame,
"he turned to Clarissa, the staring lost.

"He may not know that I have seen him," she whispered, her voice still had it something as pervasive
as the chirping of a cicada.

Now Bastide turned again to her and in the slightly slanted view of his brilliant tired Eye mingled
curiosity and scorn, but not both, as such a strange Variety of fungal
or spider belongs.

In his mind he weighed the same time tender children form wondered briefly about the Quivering
every gesture, the flying eye, the helpless shrug of the lips, wondered about the lying on the
floor spikes and thought he was dreaming when he saw that a movement of their hands imploring
him was.

The judge jumped up and cried with disfigured face Clarissa: "Do not joke with us, ma'am, could
you dearly. Speak finally! A wrung Eid is not valid! The peace of your fellow citizens, the rest
of the country is at stake. Solve They result from the enchantment of the afflicted! Your infamous
smile, Grammont, is credited to you on the Day of Judgement.

"

The Council came forward and Pinaud Bastide muttered a few words in his ear, who then raised
his arms clenched fists and chained with an air-eating Wrath before the eyes expressed. Clarissa
staggered to the table in front of the judge and by the dead pallor of her cheeks covered,
they shouted: "It's all lies! Lie! Lie! "

Monsieur Jausion looked her up and down, then said coldly: "So I put you in the indictment, Madame,
and tell you under arrest. "

A glimmer of gloomy satisfaction ran through Clarissa's features. Rapidly, with the lightning-like
rotation a dancer, she returned to Bastide Grammont, looked at how
to get to a sultry Day in the stormy sky looks painful sigh of relief
and called in a low voice, his Name.

But he took a step back as impure contact, and never before had Clarissa such views and expression
of the contempt felt. Their knees trembled, he became her ill in the mouth, the lashes were filled
with tears. Only when the door of the prison closed behind her, the more feeble state of the whipped
one. Shame and remorse overpowered her, she hardly took some solace in the mystery of their
situation. By any Law monitored, they seemed lifted from the tracks, where else cause and effect,
slow coupled together, the slow crawl course of events.

According to her station, she received the best room of the prison. In the first Hours she lay on the
straw bed, writhing in convulsions. When the guards on its urgent Please light brought, as they
go mad in the darkness afraid of the candle fell the image of the
crucified Christ with a crown of thorns, hanging on the gray-washed
wall.

You cried out, her overwrought sense found a similarity in the features with those of the Saviour
Bastide Grammont. The same painful round his lips had been, as he fists the eyes pressed.

Once again, she leaned against the excessive hardships. To live with the world was their real Element,
her whole being was in an amiable agreement with the people voted. She asked for pen and paper
and wrote a letter to the prefect.

"Justice, Sir Count," she wrote. "There is still time to prevent the worst. Remember You the trouble you
have had to extort this from me, what should be the truth, You remember the threats, through
which I've become soft.

I am a victim of Circumstances. What I've always been is a lie. No man of reason can in my statements
Explore the stamp of probability. In a mischief of despair I have stored false witness. Tell
my father that his cruelty to him, the daughter robs than my apparent violations. Already
I do not know what to believe, the past may vanishes my memory, my confidence begins to waver. If there
is too much, justice to demand, then I ask for pity, Count My fate will test me, but my Heart is pure
as the day. "

It was unsuccessful.

It was too late for words, even when the mouth of a prophet they hinausgedonnert would have.
The next morning many of the witnesses and imprisoned Clarissa were presented. So Bach came to
Bancal the soldier Colard, Rose Feral, Missoni, and the small Magdalena Bancal. Bousquier was
sick. The sight of the destroyed, shaking, lost in a phantom of hundredfold tortures frightened,
vengeful creatures ready for anything distressed Clarissa to the core and gave her both a sense of
indelible taint. Is it it? each was asked by the unfortunate and responded with bold indifference
her: she is. Missoni just stood there and laughed like an idiot.

Clarissa was amazed. Such precision and subtlety of the answer they had not expected. With inward
sobbing she held the current state of the Undeniable of out and searched her memory, shuddering
a way to that past, the he founded and which one wanted to know confirmed by it. Her shattered
spirit crept back to earlier years lived, to the youth, to childhood, to the double tomboyish to
discover enemy, which was weird and strange, was gradually core and focus their existence and
the night of the murder in Bancal house was like the rest of the world into a vision of blood
and wounds.

But through the dark fantasies led the way to Bastide Grammont, a primrose path between burning
houses. She seemed nice, knowing him guilty. Perhaps he had his Pressed her lips to before his
hand reached for the murder knife. She married their own, dark felt guilt with its greater.
What sets him off from humanity, tied him to her. His reasons for the deed? She did not afterward.
Certainly had the Root did then beaten when she first saw him when he the whole forest, the
whole Spring had swallowed into in itself. No matter, if he hands in sunlight or Blood appeared,
both part of his image to their dark passion and was Fualdes the evil demon and his destructive
principle. Oh, she thought in her strange brooding, I would have known it, so I would have done
it and could have been a hero like Charlotte Corday.

But why deny why Bastide silent? why those views crushing Contempt, which could not forget it and
still on their skin as a mark of shame burned? Was he too proud to bow to a saying that his act
is not considered better than any hijacker? No doubt, he did not recognize his judges. They
could So to pull it down to make him dependent on the breath of her
mouth, a free wild tame animal, and she forgot what was at stake,
forgot the iron either-or, in which the fortunes were made here, and
surrendered as a child who knows nothing of death.

For the sixteenth of October the trial was conducted before the assizes. At noon of the tenth
sought to speak Clarissa M. Jausion. brought before the judge, she said she knew everything,
she would confess everything. Excited with a trembling voice called Monsieur Jausion his clerks.

"I
came into the room and saw the knife flash," admitted Clark. "I fled to the Alcove, Bastide Grammont
hurried after me, hugged me and kissed me. He confided in me Fualdes must die, for the old devil
had him destroyed his happiness and unworthy of life made.

Bastide was as drunk with enthusiasm, and when I raised objections, he made me again with kisses
his mouth, he even kissed me so that I could not resist. Then he let me do an oath, then he
went and I heard moaning, I heard a terrible Cry, the little Magdalena
Bancal that lay in bed, raised himself up suddenly and cried, I lost
consciousness and when I came back to me, I was on the road.

"

This story, they argued in a mechanically-measured tone, her voice sounded glassy and almost
moved, her eyes were veiled and half closed, her small hands were hanging heavy silence next
to the hips and when she smiled sweetly to herself.

"You're so wrong in times gone by Bastide Grammont," asked the judge.

Yes. We met in the forest.

Near La Morne is an old well in the field, there also we met often, especially at night and by moonlight.
Once I started Bastide his horse and we rode at breakneck speed up the gorge of Guignol. I asked:
what are you flee, Bastide? because I was cold with fright, and he whispered, before me and the
world. But otherwise he was always gentle. I never knew a better man '

Always silvery her voice and finally she spoke like an ecstatic or how a Sleeping. The statement
was read to her, she said calmly and without hesitation, to Monsieur
Jausion told her that she was free.

In the castle, she received hostile silence. The few servants who
had remained whispering, cheeky behind her.

No one cared for her convenience, the pitcher of water she had even get out of the kitchen. However,
came when Mr. Seguret from home, he knew how the whole city to Clarissa's confessions. The fact
of their loving relationship with enlightened Bastide with a sudden now apparent that precedes
it and wove a glory to her earlier silence.

But Lord of Seguret joined all the more solid and as he passed, as
Clarissa on the Threshold of her room was, he turned his face and
made a gesture of disgust.

In the evening the President had some
friends at the guest. During the meal opened the door, and Clarissa
appeared. Lord of Seguret jumped up from his chair, robbed him of
the anger Language. "Wag 'it is not," he stammered, hoarsely and with
an outstretched arm, "dare not."

Regardless of Clarissa walked to
the edge of the table. Her face was a fine one, charming expression.
With full eye she looked at the father, so that it views as blinded
dropped his. "Scorn, father," she said softly, in a captivating sound
graceful courtship.

With ordinary matter, they turned to one of the
masters.

"It'll kill them wi' the cauld, to say naething o' the start," continued the old woman with
deepening, almost desperate, anxiety.  "Oh man, man, what for did ye leave us?"

This apostrophe was addressed to the absent Winklemann.

One inch more, five minutes longer, and the flood would reach the bodies of the old couple.
Liz looked round wildly for some mode of delivering them, but looked in vain.  Even if her
strength had been adequate, there was no higher object in the room to which she could have
lifted them. The bed, being a truckle one, and lower than the chairs, was already submerged,
and old Liz herself was coolly, if not calmly, seated in two inches of water.  At the very
last moment deliverance came in an unexpected manner.  There was a slight vibration in the
timbers of the hut, then a sliding of the whole edifice.  This was followed by a snap and a
jolt: the ring-bolt or the rope had gone, and old Liz might, with perfect propriety, have exclaimed,
in the words of the sea song, "I'm afloat!  I'm afloat! and the Rover is free!"

For one moment her heart failed; she had read of Noah's ark, but had never quite believed in
the stability of that mansion.  Her want of faith was now rebuked, for the old hut floated
admirably, as seamen might say, on an even keel.  True, it committed a violent assault on a
tree at starting, which sent it spinning round, and went crashing through a mass of drowned
bushes, which rendered it again steady; but these mishaps only served to prove the seaworthiness
of her ark, and in a few minutes the brave little woman revived.  Splashing off the bed and
spluttering across the room, she tried to open the door with a view to see what had happened
and whither they were bound, for the two windows of the mansion were useless in this respect,
being fitted with parchment instead of glass.  But the door was fast, and refused to open.

"We'll a' be lost!" exclaimed Daddy, in alarm, for he had been awakened by the shock against
the tree, and was now slightly alive to their danger.

"Ver is mine boy?" asked the old frau, in a whimpering voice.

"Nae fear o' 'ee," said Liz, in a soothing tone.  "Him that saved Noah can save us."

"Open the door an' see where we are, lassie," said the old man.

"It'll no' open, Daddy."

"Try the wundy, then."

"I'm sweer'd to break the wundy," said Liz.  "Losh, man, I'll try the lum!"

The chimney, to which old Liz referred, was capacious enough to admit a larger frame than hers.
Moreover, it was a short one, and the fire had long ago been drowned out.  With the enthusiasm
of an explorer, the little woman stooped and entered the fireplace.  She felt about inside
for a few moments, and in doing so brought down an enormous quantity of soot.  Immediately
there was a tremendous coughing in the chimney.

"Lassie! lassie! come oot!  Ve'll be chokit," cried Daddy, in alarm.

"Hoots, man, hand yer gab," was the polite reply.

Liz was not to be easily turned from her purpose.  Raising one leg up she found a crevice for
her right foot, and the aged couple beheld the old creature, for the first time, in the attitude
of a danseuse, standing on one toe.  Next moment the remaining leg went up, and she disappeared
from view.  If there had been any one outside, the old woman would have been seen, two minutes
later, to emerge from the chimney-top with the conventional aspect of a demon--as black as
a Zulu chief, choking like a chimpanzee with influenza, and her hair blowing freely in the
wind.  Only those who have intelligently studied the appearance of chimney-sweeps can form
a proper idea of her appearance, especially when she recovered breath and smiled, as she thought
of her peculiar position.

But that position was one which would have damped the courage of any one except old Liz.  The
storm was beginning to grow furious; the sun, which had already set, was tingeing the black
and threatening clouds with dingy red.  Far as the eye could reach, the once green prairie
presented an angry sea, whose inky waves were crested and flecked with foam, and the current
was drifting the hut away into the abyss of blackness that seemed to gape on the horizon.

"What see ye, Liz?" cried Daddy, bending a little, so as to send his voice up the chimney.

"I see naethin' but watter; watter everywhere," said Liz, unconsciously quoting the Ancient
Mariner, and bending so as to send her reply down. She did more; she lost her balance, and
sent herself down to the bottom of the chimney, where she arrived in a sitting posture with
a flop, perhaps we should say a squash, seeing that she alighted in water, which squirted violently
all over her sooty person.

This sudden reappearance astonished the aged couple almost more than it surprised Liz herself,
for she could not see herself as they saw her.

"Hech! but that was a klyte; but ne'er heed, Daddy.  I'm nane the waur.  Eh, but I'll ha'e
to clean mysel'," said old Liz, rising slowly and going straight to a corner cupboard, whence
she took a slab of soap, and began to apply it vigorously, using the entire room, so to speak,
as a wash-tub.  The result was unsatisfactory; beginning the process as a pure black, she only
ended it as an impure mulatto, but she was content, and immediately after set herself to fasten
the aged pair more securely in their chairs, and to arrange their limbs more comfortably on
the table; after that she lighted a candle and sat down on the sloppy bed to watch.

Thus that household spent the night, rocked, as it were, on the cradle of the deep.

At daylight Herr Winklemann rose from his sleepless couch at the parsonage, and finding that
the wind had moderated, launched his canoe. He left the mission station just an hour before
Mr Cockran returned to it.

Anxious was the heart of the poor youth as he wielded the paddle that morning, and many were
the muttered remarks which he made to himself, in German, as he urged the canoe against wind
and current.  As he neared home his fears increased.  On reaching a certain part from which
he had been wont to descry the chimney of old Liz's hut, he perceived that the familiar object
was gone, and uttered a mighty roar of horror.

The half-breed in the bow ceased paddling, and looked back in alarm.

"Git on, you brute!" shouted Winklemann, at the same time exerting his great strength as though
he meant to urge the light craft out of the water into the air.

A few minutes more and they swept round into the space where the hut had once stood.  There
was nothing left but the bit of rope that had been made fast to the ring-bolt.  Poor Winklemann
let his paddle drop and sank almost double with his face in his hands.

"Mine moder," was all he could say, as he groaned heavily.  In a few seconds he recovered with
a start and bade the man in the bow paddle for his life.

Winklemann, of course, knew that the house must have floated downwards with the current, if
it had not been utterly overwhelmed.  He directed his search accordingly, but the breadth of
land now covered by the flood caused the currents to vary in an uncertain manner, as every
ridge, or knoll, or hollow in the plains modified them.  Still, there could be only one general
direction.  After a few minutes of anxious reflection the bereaved man resolved to keep by
the main current of the river.  He was unfortunate in this, for the hut, in commencing its
adventurous career, had gone off in the direction of the plains.  All day he and his companion
paddled about in search of the lost family, but in vain.  At night they were forced to return
to the parsonage for a little food and rest, so as to fit them for a renewal of the search
on the following morning. When she spoke, he lowered his head and everything was silent in him.
She went to women about the galleries and he stood with his friends in the yard, so heard to
joke and put it on with a troubled countenance the arm over the neck of the horse.

Twenty-five days of the month he was away from the castle. The bearer of important messages had
to wait. Where is Don Philip? asked the councils. Answer was: he hunts with the count Baldwin,
or he carouses with the Knight Kastilalt, or he is the wine festival to Zaragoza ridden. There was
also information that you dared to murmur in secret, for not infrequently
played the beautiful Moorish women a role in the distractions of Lords.

When

Philip, as it often happened at night the room Joan entered, he was almost always drunk. His
caresses smelled of wine, his passion was noisily and boastful. His mind was in the noise
of the lie as his blood in the noise of the wine. He noted not, as then everything silently sobbed
to Johanna and her kiss was a spasm of repentance. He still had not learned to read human
faces, and he had the mind of a Pages. When he sat on the horse and the head turned to the
side proud, then he might be a Creatures are for themselves. But his tongue was sealed by God,
and he knew nothing of the pain to himself

As the relaxing days to weeks and the months stretched to years, Joanne felt barely. She brought
a third child, a fourth, a fifth. She wore them under a desolate heart and she gave birth - hopeless.
All were taken from her as that child of the Love, she felt as she put ghosts to life, things
that ticked to air, if you longing arm reached for them. In her deep loneliness looked from
afar, by Hyperborean Sea coast forth the living eyes of her son, Karl. She did not know more
from him, as we learn about the legends of figures from the past.

Annihilated her heart and sought happening dug further into the night. In strange heat rolled
their blood. At the sight of the stars they could tremble with impatience and a hand on the open
outcry lips pressed. Of sleep, they hardly needed. What they said sounded hostile and confused.
Once she took Petrarch's sonnets on hand, and read, but suddenly flung to the book, overwhelmed by
anger, grief and hatred, far away, picked it up again, tore it to shreds and crushed what was
left, with his feet. Your restlessness aroused the horror all the inhabitants of the palace,
and even her confessor was afraid of the blazing eyes. If everyone was asleep, she walked slowly
with a candle by her room, but she never walked through the center of the room, but along
the walls. And her bare neck shone over the dark dress like the stem of a flower, which descends
from the storm.

       

* * * * *

It happened now, that a beautiful Portuguese came to the court of Burgos, whose name Benigna
was Latiloe. She lived at the house of Don Inigos de Stuniga, where she saw the Duke to the
first time and fell in such love for him that all who were present, it immediately noted. Philip,
however, acted cool, but the lady was of perfect grace and also had some spirit. At later meetings,
he gave the less by his polite, but measured behavior from, when his zeal Benignas Donna began
to be annoying and their Adjustment from the substance of the public talk was. If she sent and
flirtatious enough been to stimulate his lust for conquest, it might become Miss favor because others
who could not boast of such gifts as they have been given this privilege
lightly; it it failed.

The sincerity of their passion was too great.

The disaster would have it, the knight Franz von Kastilalt, the still of the inseparable Companion
Don Philip, was in love with equal intensity in the beautiful Portuguese, like this in the Duke.
He was not a hearing, and his impetuous efforts made him merely an object of disgust for the
young lady. When he saw that a happiness that Philip indifferent disdain, he should be denied, he was filled
with deadly hatred not only against Donna Benigna, but also against his master, and his vicious disposition
accordingly he mused out to avenge himself on both. Often he was assistant and instigator in the
love affairs Philip's been. He knew that he watched with anxious solicitude about his doings keep
secret from Donna and Joan indulged only on back roads of careless tendencies. Like all knights
Kastilalt was convinced that the Infanta with invisible powers the Alliance was, and he decided
to tell the Duke and Donna Benigna at Johanna, than whether they were standing in illicit relationship.
To this end, he knew the letters to appropriate, which the Portuguese almost daily to Philip sent,
and chose those whose hinge bender and tender tone could well be the conclusion that the prosecution
of the Knight of Truth based.

He settled at the Infanta should log in was a humble, obedient look as if it on nothing in the
world would be in the mind as well as whether the Duchess and his conscience the rest robbed
and it was finally forced to get rid of the burden of silence. After this he brought the cocoon
to the light, he weaved in his black interior, were the letters Donna Benignas the receipt and
went back to his cause by no means assured, as the Infanta he had listened with unmoved countenance,
and said a single word.

Even before the stone his eye had disappeared, he thus scheming rolled down the slope, nestled
in even fear and remorse in him.

When the knight was gone, Joan Donna pressed her hands against his
chest, walked to the high mirror hanging between two half-columns
of yellow marble, and examined with very closely at her face.

In the room there was no one than this, and Donna Gregoria followed the work of their mistress
bang and silence.

Finally called Johanna, without stirring, into a clear voice in the mirror! "Gregoria" - "What you command,
Donna Noble," replied the trembling?. - He must die, Gregoria, "said the Infanta. Donna Gregoria
silent. "Listen, Gregoria, he must die," repeated Joan, and the last word in a choked breath
faster, while the hands, become as lifeless, decreased from the chest down. Gregoria and Donna
breathed scarcely audible, "Yes, Donna Noble."

Then she approached the Infanta, fell to his knees and leaned his forehead against the cold
Johanna's rigid hand. Joan bent down, far, with effort, she bent down and whispered into the
ear of the servant.

A relative of Donna Gregoria lived at the court, a noble boy named Morales, and this Donna
Gregoria was devoted body and soul. She spoke with him that evening and told him he could find
in a creek near Murcia certain herbs and made him a List of the herbs
on.

Morales went away, gathered the herbs and rode it to Molina in Arragon to a pharmacist, he knew.
In his apartment, distilled the pharmacist the juice from the herbs and to prove how terrible
the resulting toxin was, he was a Drops like a faucet, the dead immediately.

A few days later the Duke was in a house near Burgos, which was called Cordon and then the count
Punon-Rostro, belonged to several grandees of the country meal. The order the meal was this: once
you of the central hall entered the house, was found in the first Hall Schenk two tables, one
for food and one for the wine. Was left of the dining room, the windows were open fields. Between
the two rooms was a close run.

While dined, was understood Morales is to arrange that, as often as required to drink Don Philip,
no other when he brought him the wine. Three times he handed him the cup, before the third Time
he poured into that dark corridor secretly and quickly the poison. It was about as much as a
nut-shell would have filled.

A few minutes later the Duke felt sick. He went out, while the men clueless remained seated
to play. Half an hour later she called the steward to a large Terror, for Philip was already
in a fever. He was hastily made to the city, it but was late at night before they arrived and
appeared to the doctors. Immediately afterwards he died under horrible pain.

Don Gotor went to the Infanta. He still felt asleep and woke the servants and Chamber women. There
appeared Donna Gregoria and led him silently into a room where Johanna
sat in front of a brazier.

       With a face pale and rigid as iron, reported the doctor measured
in the form of strange death of his master.

The eye of the Infanta turned slowly the motionless figure of the old man, whose eyes met fearlessly and
burning their own. But as the sponge from a fist Joan trains were pressed together by ecstasy,
it moved a glimmer of joy out about it, and the legs, the whole body stretched out like in the
bath.

* * * * *

The body was buried. Evil talk buzzed about the tomb and choked back into superstitious Fear.
Once, when several gentlemen were on the main square and fearlessly the presumption debate that Philip
was killed by assassin's hand, an earthquake shook the city, broke the windows of City Hall
and the frightened refugees saw the towers of churches .

Waver The Lord of Mingoval, hochbetrauter Equerry wanted whilst the Infanta have noticed with
hair flying on the roof of the palace where they have a white wand swung.

It was noted that Donna Gregoria her taking leave and a retirement home in Barcelona went. The
knight Franz von Kastilalt fled across the mountains and took service with the King of France.
The youth Morales was stabbed by a drunken night while mercenaries.

Donna Benigna returned to her home and took the veil.

The princess lived in large apartments fully glassy air. Their wives, they avoided the servants any
means they feared. It was late autumn, the storm wind rattled the walls of the Castle. Which
unrest in Joan's heart! Someone unexpectedly stepped in front of her so frightened she and
her anxiously inquiring eye was the dull sheen of the Sleepless.

Was sometimes her face in mysterious tenderness as an invisible form of directed and Hand writhed
like a dry leaf that curls up together before the winter comes.

At the table she sat still and withdrawn and rarely touched a bowl. Once ran a ray of sun, dispersed
by a crystal vase, a seven-colored bridge across the room, until he reached her hand and the wing
of an insect similar to a mysterious and abzitterte. Then she jumped up and sobbed aloud. It
was like one who is a beautiful picture of the wall has cracked,
and now flows from darkness and horror of the body which previously
so friendly was decorated.

In Philip's room they could find some peace, to ask all the items anyway appeared, where is Phil?
She replied in her heart, to appease themselves and things: he is out of town, he comes back.
And they hung sometimes for the hour of his coming with jewels and
beautiful clothes.

As a woman once asked by Dutselle: "Why do you decorate You said as to the ball, Princess,
meanwhile, you have to Don Philip should still mourning? "Since them with the sigh of a tortured
child dreams of: "I decorate because I'm on Philipp wait. "

She decorated his room with flowers and laid a carpet over the threshold.

From the Chests, they took his arms and kissed her clothes gold chains, bracelets and finger rings.
In his bed she felt with her open hand and the warmth of his body at his table She sat in the
same place where he sat. She was surprised that everything was as it was that the sun was
shining, it was evening and morning.

It was on a November day when she called some of the servants and at their head the northern gateway
to Flores Milla rode. In the Charterhouse to Milla was Duke Philip Flores buried. The frightened
monks had to unlock the door, then she let the stone from Burial vault and take the coffin
open and lift out. All were moved at the sight of well-preserved features of her Lord. The
face seemed longer, the trains more seriously.

A grim smile moved the mouth of the Infanta. The Father Guardian said later that she had I smiled,
because the devil, as he clearly perceived, tickled the ear. Johanna commanded all to go away,
- as the incontrovertible word was their view - and as She was alone, she knelt down, his hands
crossed high above the chest so that the thumb almost surrounded the neck and began to pray.
But even more unexpectedly, and while her lips God wrong, she lost the humility of the breast,
it was as if a victim of sudden unholy fingers were stolen, the prayer turned to the demand,
and the arms stretched out, not to beg, but to receive and his forehead shone as of preparedness and
the body trembled and shook just as in the pains of childbirth, and Breath, gesture, heartbeat,
all cried, "Give me back Phil!

It seemed a breath of air through the chapel to slide and Johanna felt that a sweet Affirmation
filled the vault. She jumped up. She called the people. The opposition of the monks heedless,
she had the embalmed body lift on a stretcher. It was all wheel drive, whipped the carrier
forward and formally remained unmoved and did not look back, since
that shuddered, because the monks were under the gate, and lamented.

It was night, the ground was weakened, they lost their way, Joan was the men rest and sent
a servant ahead to bring torches. In the rain they went restlessly
back and forth, snatched the dress the step of painful impatience
soon tackled soon fired, and finally as a torch flame flared up in
the sturmdurchwühlten darkness, she cried joyfully, so that the silent
woods waiting companion turned pale.

Once in the palace, she held
the body of Philip with a gorgeous silver gown shed left him in a
glass coffin lay, which was to open the top and sides, and let the
Coffin in her bedroom near your bed. Unrelated eyes she looked at
the Noble stretched out form to have the form, each completed in secret
of course appeared. It was no longer young, but a man and a king.

No
female creature was allowed to enter the room, in the hallways and
in the side chambers no voice was allowed to be loud.

The greater part of that day was spent in rearranging the habitable parts of Willow Creek,
and placing the more delicate valuables further out of danger.  At night candles were lighted,
fresh wood was heaped up in the stove, and the lumber-room became comparatively comfortable.

"Will you play us a tune, Angus?" said Louis Lambert, drawing a stool between Elsie and Cora
and sitting down.  "The ladies, you know, never tire of your music."

"I hef not anything new," replied Angus, with becoming modesty; "but if the leddies wass willin'
to listen to some o' the old tunes, my fuddle an' I will try what we can do."

"We love the old tunes best," said Cora.

As every one else echoed the sentiment, Angus, nothing loath, began to discourse sweet sounds,
which, to say truth, were indeed very sweet, and mingled not inharmoniously with the sound
of waters which gurgled gently underneath.

Angus could play Scotch reels in a manner that made dancing almost unavoidable, but he preferred
slow, plaintive music, and on this occasion indulged his taste to the full, so as to fling
a mantle of quiescence and pathos over the family circle.

Samuel Ravenshaw had retired to a darkish corner to enjoy his pipe, but the music awoke sad
memories.  The lost Tony came vividly before him, and beside his darling boy arose the dark
form of the Red Man, whose mode of taking his revenge had been to him so terrible, all the
more terrible that the nature of the old man was secretive in regard to sorrow.  His joys he
was ever ready to share with every one, but his griefs he smothered in his own breast, and
scorned to let his countenance betray his heart.

No one knew how much he suffered.  Perhaps Elsie understood him best. At all events she had
become more earnest and thoughtful in her attentions after that dark day when her little brother
was spirited away.  Leaving Lambert to Cora, she went over to her father, sat down beside him,
and, laying her head upon his shoulder, listened with a sort of melancholy pleasure to the
sweet strains of the violin.

They were suddenly and rudely awakened from this state of quiescence by a blinding flash of
lightning, followed almost instantaneously by a tremendous clap of thunder which sounded like
colliding worlds overhead, and then rolled away in deep mutterings of discontent.  This was
repeated at short intervals, then the rain and hail came down in torrents, and the wind rose
so that soon the waves began to beat violently on the house.  The day which had begun so calmly
ended in furious storm--emblematic of many a day in every human life.

Seated there with feelings of awe and anxiety, the Ravenshaw household passed the night in silence.

And still the waters of the Red River continued to rise--slowly, it is true, and inch by inch
instead of foot by foot--until these settlers in the great wilderness began to think, with
something akin to superstitious fear, of that mighty deluge which had been sent to submerge
the world in the days of old.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN.

OLD RAVENSHAW GOES EXPLORING AND RESCUING.

Another fine calm day came to comfort the victims of the flood in the midst of that tempestuous
time, with its April character of mingled storm and sunshine.  The rise in the water on the
previous night had been almost imperceptible.  Feeling, therefore, somewhat easier in his mind,
old Mr Ravenshaw determined to embark in his boat for the purpose of paying a visit to those
unfortunates who, after being driven from their homes, had taken refuge on the imperceptible
eminence which had been styled "The Mountain."  Taking with him Lambert and a stout crew, he
embarked from his upper bedroom window, bade his wife and daughters an affectionate adieu,
hoisted his sail, and pushed off.

The hoisting of the sail was a mere matter of form.

"It's of no use at present, but will be ready to catch the first puff that may favour us,"
observed the old gentleman, as he sat down and took the tiller.  "Give way, lads."

The oars were dipped, and the Willow Creek mansion was soon but a speck on the horizon of the
watery waste.

And now the old fur-trader learned the full extent of the desolation with which it had pleased
God to visit the settlement at that time. While taken up with the cares and anxieties connected
with Willow Creek, he was of course aware that terrible destruction, if not death, must have
been going on around him; but now, when he rowed over the plains, saw the state of things with
his own eyes, and heard the accounts of many settlers, some of whom he rescued from positions
of danger, the full extent of the damage done by the great flood of 1826 was borne powerfully
in upon his mind.

The varied stories which some had to tell of their escapes, others of their losses, and all,
of their sufferings, were sad as well as interesting.  Some of the people had taken shelter
in garrets or on stages, where they had to wait anxiously till some boat or canoe should turn
up to rescue them.  Some had been surprised by the sudden rise of the flood at night while
asleep, and had wakened to find themselves and their beds afloat.  Two men who had gone to
sleep on a rick of hay found themselves next morning drifting with the current some three miles
below the spot where they had lain down.  Others, like old Liz, had been carried off bodily
in their huts.  Not a few had been obliged to betake themselves to the housetops until help
came.  Some there were who took to swimming, and saved themselves by clinging to the branches
of trees; yet, strange to say, during the whole course of that flood only one man lost his
life.  (See Note 1.)

It was very different, however, with regard to the lower animals.  When at its height the water
spread out on each side of the river to a distance of six miles, and about fourteen miles of
its length, so that not only were many horses, cattle, pigs, and poultry drowned in the general
stampede, but the pretty little ground squirrels were driven out of their holes, and along
with rats, mice, snakes, and insects, perished in thousands.  Even the frogs discovered that
too much of a good thing is bad, for they found no rest for the soles of their feet, except
floating logs, planks, and stray pieces of furniture, on which many of them were seen by our
voyagers gazing contemplatively at the situation.

Everywhere houses and barns were seen floating about, their owners gone, but with dogs and
cats in the doorways and windows, and poultry on the roofs; and the barking, mewing, and cackling
of these, with the squealing of sundry pigs, tended to increase the general desolation. Such
of the contents of these houses as had been left behind in the flight were washed out of them,
and the waters were sprinkled here and there with bedsteads, chairs, tables, feather-beds,
and other property, besides the carcasses of dead animals.

At certain points of the river, where there were shallows towards which the currents set, carts,
carioles, boxes, carriages, gigs, fencing, and property of every description were stranded
in large quantities and in dire confusion, but much of the wreck was swept onward and engulfed
in Lake Winnipeg.

The unfortunate settlers found refuge ultimately, after being driven from knoll to knoll, on
the higher ground of the Assinaboine, on the Little Mountain, and on a low hill twelve miles
from the settlement.

On his way to the Little Mountain Mr Ravenshaw touched at the mission station.  Here the various
groups in the garret of the parsonage, the gallery of the church, and on the stage, were greatly
reduced in numbers, many of the refugees having availed themselves of the visits of several
settlers and gone off to the mountain in their boats or canoes, with what of their property
they had managed to save.

Among those who remained there was a marked spirit of cheerful submission.

"You see," said the pastor, in reply to an observation of Mr Ravenshaw on this point, "I have
endeavoured to impress upon my poor people that mere quiet submission to the inevitable is
not a Christian characteristic, that men of all creeds and nations may and do thus submit,
and that it is the special privilege of the follower of Jesus to submit cheerfully to whatever
befalls--pleasant or otherwise--because he has the promise that all things shall work together
for his good." There was a girl, on the seventh Day of his age,
the maternal hat was stolen. As the princess from her bed brought her the facts could not be
kept secret. But if everything is set so as if an evidence of the gracious sentiments of the
king.

Johanna listened quietly. She demanded to speak to the Duke.

It was their means, Don Philip I have to go away in urgent business.

In fact, Philip was hiding in a castle in Aragon, he was allowed to assume, Johanna was intrinsic
to the inevitable. He had a few social companions with him taken, including the Knight Franz
von Kastilalt, an adventurer and clowns. This became his inseparable Trabant, relying on the
favor of the Duke, he committed many Crimes and was the terror of peaceful citizens. He was
such a huge eater, that he once, the Count of Aranda asked for God's
sake, to leave his area because he and could cause his people by famine.

The

Duke was too narrow and the city of Castile, he said, as a province of the devil. He was hated by
his house, hated the sky, covered it. The sun was shining, so defendant he fell on their fire,
rain, he said scornfully, a country that is water instead of giving birth Wine, you must flee.
And he fled. When the riots broke out in Flanders, he went across the sea to Antwerp, where
he remained not long, however, but went up the Rhine to the fun city of Cologne and his faithful
Palatine. Then it rushed him on, He went to the home and left it again, bitterly disappointed
and anxious for no reason. The gentlemen at the imperial court marveled at the incompatible nature
of the prince and his fiery nature, because Philip was formerly gentle.

In the first month of the new century, when the comet disaster ankündeten and the black Plague
from Asia breathed deserts, is made to Don Philip again and moved to the Netherlands Ghent. As he was
only an hour away from the walls, he came to the Audiencier and Master James of Goudebault counter
and told him that Donna Johanna, pregnant Body, his wait in the castle. They had arrived a few days
earlier by Spain, full of longing after the husband.

Don Philip's heart beat. In the seven months of his absence he had Johanna, as it lost his mind. He
no longer knew what she looked like she spoke, he reminded is no more the color of their eyes
and the shape of her shoulders, her voice sounded it is no longer in the ear, his thoughts
had weaned her. What remained was only the increasing Anxiety, when he imagined that they would again
be face to face with her should be.

He had dragged her name through the country, nothing more than her name. With body knowing and
spirit in the town of Ghent, surprised and startled him. He delayed the catchment in every way,
so that his people knew not what to think of it.

Nevertheless, while it flamed by the extreme impatience and tried
to persuade him that the old passion was resurrected.

When he felt his lips on Joan, he stared with open eyes and faltering
breath their amber-yellow lids, which had descended as deep as in
a sleep of love.

"That accounts for the cry you heard," said Louis Lambert, when the screams subsided.

"No, Louis; a pig's voice is too familiar to deceive me.  If it was not imagination, it was
the voice of a man."

The old trader was right.  One of the objects which, in the distance, resembled so closely
the floating carcass of an ox was in reality an overturned canoe, and to the stern of that
canoe Herr Winklemann was clinging.  He had been long in the water, and was almost too much
exhausted to see or cry.  When the boat passed he thought he heard voices.  Hope revived for
a moment, and he uttered a feeble shout, but he failed to hear the reply.  The canoe happened
to float between him and the boat, so that he could not see it as it passed slowly on its course.

Poor Winklemann!  In searching wildly about the wide expanse of water for his lost mother,
he had run his canoe violently against the top rail of a fence.  The delicate birch bark was
ripped off.  In another minute it sank and turned bottom up.  It was a canoe of the smallest
size, Winklemann having preferred to continue his search alone rather than with an unwilling
companion.  The German was a good swimmer; a mere upset might not have been serious.  He could
have righted the canoe, and perhaps clambered into it over the stern, and baled it out. The sun was clear, it was such a great Sight that a
human eye is not sufficient to do so. The nearly full moon came up and We always higher. Through
spruce forests, we ascended on the law, and saw the lake in smell and the reflection of the
moon in it. It was getting light. The road is a well-made Chaussee, only applied to the wood from the
mountains to get comfortable in the country down. We had gone about three hours when it started
to go down again gently hinterwaerts. We thought of us to see a big lake by a deep fog, the whole
valley, overlooked as we could, would fill. We came closer to him at last, saw a white sheet,
the moon was in it, and were soon completely wrapped in fog.

The accompaniment of the captain gave us quarters in a house where one would usually not strangers
take cares. It differed in the interior design of ordinary buildings in nothing but the big
room at the same time the midst kitchen, meeting space, is the vestibule, and one from there
into the rooms of the same ground and the stairs going up. On the one Side was lighted at
the bottom of the fire on stone slabs, of which a long chimney, with boards and permanently clean
knocked out, the smoke started. In the corner were the Doors to the ovens, the whole floor
gedielet by the way, except for a small corner the window at the sink, which had paved the way,
all around, even in the height over the bar, a lot of household furniture and utensils placed
in nice order, everything not considered unclean.

25, Morning was bright cold weather, the frosted meadows, here and there subjected to light fog:
we could see the lower part of the valley rather, our house was at the foot of the eastern Mont noir
about eight we rode, and to enjoy the sunshine that, at the dusk side out.
  Many settlers--half-breeds, Canadians, and Indians--were encamped there; some under
tents of various sizes, others under upturned boats and canoes; not a few under the wider canopy
of the heavens. But I'm not alone: ​​in the subdued light,
the hereinfaellt through the open side wall of the adjacent Loodiele, is a girl my age, and the blond hair
falling over a blue shirt dress.  It was confusion worse
confounded!

Many were the hospitable proposals made here to Louis Lambert that he should remain all night,
for he was a general favourite, but to all these he turned a deaf ear, and set out on a searching
expedition, in the canoe, just after the sun had gone down.

At first he made as straight as he could for the place where Mr Ravenshaw had fancied he heard
the cry, but on consideration came to the conclusion that, as the current must have carried
all floating objects considerably farther down the settlement by that time, he ought to change
his course.  Soon it grew too dark to see objects distinctly, but an occasional gleam of moonshine
came to his aid.  He passed several floating barns and cow-houses, but found them empty.  He
also nearly ran against several dead animals, but the silent Indian in the bow was wary and
vigilant.  Hope was at last beginning to die within Louis's breast, when he observed a raven
circling round some floating object.

"Ho! there's something yonder.  Strike out, old copper-nose," he exclaimed, as he directed
the canoe towards it.

The light craft cut the water like a knife, and was quickly alongside.

"Why, it is a canoe, bottom up.  Have a care.  Ha! hold on!"

Lambert nearly overturned his own canoe as he made a sudden grasp at something, and caught
a man by the hair.

"Hallo!  I say, let go your canoe and hold on to me," cried Lambert, in excitement, but the
man spoken to made no reply, and would not let go the wrecked canoe.

Lambert therefore hauled him powerfully and slowly alongside until his visage was level with
the gunwale.  Just then a gleam of moonlight broke forth and revealed the face of Herr Winklemann!
The difficulties that now beset the rescuers were great, for the poor German, besides being
stupefied, had grasped his canoe with tremendous power, and could not be detached.  To get
an active and living man out of the water into a birch canoe is no easy matter; to embark a
half-dead one is almost impossible; nevertheless Lambert and his red-skinned comrade managed
to do it between them.  Raising his unconscious friend as far out of the water as possible,
Louis caught one of his hands and wrenched it from its hold. Meanwhile the Indian leaned out
of the opposite side of the canoe so as to balance it.  Another violent wrench freed the other
hand.  It also freed Winklemann's spirit to some extent, and called it back to life, for he
exclaimed, "Vat is dat?" in a tone of faint but decided surprise.

"Here, lay hold of my neck," said Lambert, in a peremptory voice.

Winklemann obeyed.  Lambert exerted all his strength and heaved.  The Indian did not dare to
lend a hand, as that would have upset the canoe, but he leaned still farther over its other
side as a counterpoise.  At last Lambert got his friend on the edge, and tumbled him inboard.
At the same moment the Indian adroitly resumed his position, and Winklemann was saved!

"You'll soon be all right," said Lambert, resuming his paddle.  "Haven't swallowed much water,
I hope?"

"No, no," said Winklemann faintly; "mine lunks, I do tink, are free of vatter, but mine lecks
are stranchly qveer.  I hav no lecks at all! 'Pears as if I vas stop short at zee vaist!"

Herr Winklemann said no more, but was swiftly borne, in a state of semi-consciousness, to his
friends on the Little Mountain.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Twenty-six years later, in 1852, Red River Settlement was visited by a flood very similar in
its main features to that of 1826, above described; and it is a curious coincidence that only
one man lost his life during the latter flood; also, that the waters of the floods of both
years began to subside on exactly the same date.

CHAPTER NINETEEN.

THE RED MAN RECEIVES A VISITOR, COGITATES DEEPLY, AND ACTS WITH DECISION.

We return now, to the red man, who, with his captive, spent the greater part of that winter
on the slopes of the Rocky mountains, in a valley between two spurs of the range which merged
gradually into the prairie.

In this sequestered spot Petawanaquat could, by turning to the right hand, seek the rugged
haunts of the grizzly near and the Rocky Mountain goat; or, by turning to the left, ride after
the buffalo on his own undulating plains.  Here the Indian instructed Tony in all the mysteries
of the hunter's craft, showed him how to set traps for wolves and foxes, and snares for rabbits,
and taught him how to use the gun, and how to follow the tracks of game in the snow.  He also
made him a little bow, with a sheaf of blunt-headed arrows, and a pair of snow-shoe frames,
the interstices of which were filled up by the red man's wife.

Petawanaquat had only one wife, named Meekeye.  He might have had half a dozen wives if he
had chosen, because he was a strong, able, and successful hunter, which is equivalent to saying
he was, for an Indian, a rich man, and among the Indians there is no legal limit, we believe,
to the number of a man's wives.  But our red man seemed to think one quite enough.  He was
very good to her--which is more than can be said, alas! of many white men.  He never failed
to bring her the tit-bits of all animals slain in the chase.  He never beat her if she grew
weary on the march, as too many of his savage countrymen are wont to do, but, on the contrary,
relieved her of part of her burden, and, as a rule, carried the heaviest part of the family
baggage on his own shoulders or sledge.  Moreover, when on a visit with his furs to the stores
of the fur-traders, he never failed to consult Meekeye as to every purchase that he made, and
invariably gladdened her heart with gifts of scarlet cloth and white enamelled beads, and brilliant
ribbons and little circular mirrors, which were deemed ample in size, though hardly big enough
to display to advantage the point of an average nose.  In short, Petawanaquat was quite un-Indian
and chivalrous in his attentions to his squaw, who repaid him with faithful service, and, above
all, with loving looks from the orbs which had originated her name. A certain Chambers, opposite the Cell was, a most cruel murderer,
asked Sara, but she should be in God's care, if his name appear. Sara turned to the window and
listened, just after her own came the name Chambers. She decided to hide it to the unfortunate,
that he a quiet Night was, but he learned it. The guard was on his last lap. reached without trouble
Sara is that he let them go over to the crying murder. She asked him if she with it to pray. "Yes,
Sara," he cried, "with all my heart." She began fervently to pray with him, and deep into the
night they were on their knees, until all light was burned out. Without that they were aware of
the others were doomed to which the guard opened the doors had, and prayed with. As a saint,
they looked at Sara, and the closer the bitter Time came, the more she felt relieved their souls.
The guards forgot sleep in That night, thinking, be they for once the sky moved hosts to hell
of Newgate.

The morning dawned and appeared Halberdiers to the convicts to Fleet
Street lead to the gallows.

Five men, it was: a murderer, two arsonists, a traitor and a mutinous sailor. They preferred
singing over the courtyard of the prison and took Sara in their midst. So they do not by the
rain suffers, Chambers pulled off his jacket and put it around her shoulders. The two arsonists
went to her side and swore that they did not fear death. So they came in front of the scaffold.
Sara was allowed to ascend first. Even the crude mob who had gathered at the scene, stared
in silent Emotion up and forgot the no-cheering totbereiten expression of her face. As the rope around
her slender neck was laid believed, many see that they have a kiss breathed in the air. The
sun freed itself for a moment of clouds and haze watched.

Not in the real and tangible to play the ultimate life of men. The Lowest what binds his soul
to the mortal is smoke, is a dream.

Thus, happiness and Misfortune to mere name.

Clarissa Mirabel

In the small town Rhodez which is west of the Cevennes and the river Aveyron washed is the lawyer
who lived Fualdes, an insignificant man, neither good nor evil. Despite his advanced age, he
had only recently withdrawn from the shops, and its Asset circumstances were so shattered
that, at the beginning of the year eighteen hundred and seventeen his had to sell domain La Morne.
With the proceeds he wanted at a quiet spot of the country Retire and live on his pension. One
evening, it was the nineteenth March, received He Seguret by the buyer of the goods, the President,
the rest of the purchase money in securities and bills paid out and after he had locked the documents
in his desk, left He said the house and the housekeeper, he had again to La Morne over to
deal with to meet the tenant some necessary arrangements.

He came not to La Morne, yet he returned to his apartment. The next morning saw the Wife of a
tailor from the village of Aveyron his body in a shallow part of the river lie ran and fetched
Rhodez people.

The rocky slope of the shore was steep and perpendicular to that place over twelve feet high. From the narrow
footpath that led from Rhodez against the vineyards, a large piece was losgebröckelt; no doubt
that the unfortunate man was overthrown by the depth. It was the day previously been raining heavily
and the ground was up, according to the testimony of some growers, long ago been relaxed. Striking
a far-reaching laceration appeared on the neck of the dead, because but protruded from the
rock of the hillside around sharp schistose panels, said such a breach were by themselves
when no examination of the steep wall Traces of blood found on stone
and earth, the rain had washed everything.

The news of the incident spread quickly throughout the day and were constantly two to three hundred
Rhodezer, men, women and children, with both banks and stared an expression of lust and self-created
shudder into the depths of the gorge. It was considered whether such a will had seduced the old
man. A woman wanted with a shepherd spoke and this shepherd would have heard a cry for help,
but was Been around midnight and had to leave at eight clock Fualdes the house. A thick pottery
denied that the darkness was as close as everyone thought he himself was at nine clock from
La Valette ago went through the fields and there have shone the moon. It had the duty warden rightly
indignant and meant it, that new moon was just yesterday is, one need only turn over the calendar.
That shrugged as if to say, in such a passage of time is even the
calendar not to be trusted.

To the twilight hours at home, people wandered in pairs and in groups, sometimes talking, sometimes
silently, sometimes arguing, sometimes secretive whispers. As suspiciously made Dogs always run
around to the same place in the circle, grabbed her hungry desire for new Excitement. They peered
with attentive eyes straight ahead, they learned with alert ears each spoken word. Some looked at
each other suspiciously from the side, who are money had locked his door and counted it. Evening
in the wine bars has been immense from the Wealth, tells the stacked Fualdes the stingy over
the years, the estate La Morne had he sold only because he carried
awe, tenant Grammont, his nephew was to force the appeal to pay the
overdue lease for two years.

The brandishing the word was lurking stand on the lip, and pulled with a half conceived. In the
citizens it was considered a foregone conclusion that Fualdes, a liberal Protestant, the former Officials
of the Empire, was followed by threats against his life was. The darkened Thoughts busy stretch
of the web of fear. The more an accident believed withheld their reasons, they had to take care that
no suspicion fell on her. Already, a number described by allies of the enemy, threatening, arrogant
party has become the Legitimists come. The dark hatred pointed to the Jesuits and their missions
as author of the uncertain Indeed.

How often had the justice hesitated when the power of the powerful the criminal sheltered!

The spring sun shone the next day in tense troubled, seeking to slow Savagery is inflaming faces.
The royalists began to be concerned about possessions; to protect
themselves, whether infected by the general horror which emanated
the unknown; indicated to them that a crime had occurred.

But how? and where? and by whom?

A shoemaker usually has a better memory and a mind busier than others People. The shoemaker Escarboeuf
sometimes used in the vesper hour his neighbors and faithful to assemble. He remembered exactly
what the doctor said the autopsy had he had stood by and heard it syllable by syllable. "That
looks almost , as if the man had been slaughtered ", which were the words of the astonished
doctor been while he examined the injury to his neck. "Slaughtered? what are you talking about
there, man, "remembered one. "Yes, slaughtered," the cobbler said triumphantly. - "But it But
should have sand stuck to the wound, "remarked a young man so here. - "Oh, ! Sand, sand, "declaimed
the shoemaker," proves what then sand! "-" No, sand proves "nothing, gave to all. And then at noon
it was in all houses in the district: Fualdes slain been, they have slaughtered him. The word was a
picture of the inflamed brains, the murmuring Tongue a note.

Now had an eerie coincidence ordained that the night watchman on the fatal evening before Bancalschen
house in which the gloomy side street de l'Ambrague the house of the lawyer Fualdes was separated,
found a stick with ivory handle and gold ring and in the Guard-room was given. Fualdes' housekeeper,
an old deaf woman, described the Floor with security as the property of their Lord, their claim
seemed incontrovertible. Much later it turned out that the floor was a traveling merchant, who
with some girls the night was ragged, but now the attention was at once and prepared to fire on the
evil Bancalsche appointed house, a dilapidated, dull building with wet dirty corners. Previously
it had owned a butcher, and on the farm were still kept pigs. It was an opportunity and was home
every night by soldiers, Suspected smugglers and visited girls, ladies and distinguished gentlemen
also dichtverschleierte sometimes there flitted in and out. The ground floor was inhabited by the
former couple Bancal Colard soldier with his lover, the prostitute and the hunchback Bedos
Missoni, lived above an old Spaniard named Saavedra and his wife, a political refugee in France
Shelter.

       

* * * * *

On the afternoon of the twenty-first of March, the soldier Colard stood on the corner of Rue de l'Ambrague
and played the flute, a monotonous melody, which he learned from the shepherds in the Pyrenees
had.

Then came the grocer Galtier the road, stopped, turned as if he were listening, interrupted
but eventually the musicians and said sternly: "What do you drift around you and give you ignorant,
Colard? Do not you know that should have happened in your house for the murder? "

Colard pushed the bushy mustache of his lips and replied that he had and Missoni that evening
in the wine industry at Rose Feral been Bancalschen next to the house. "Had I heard noise, "he
said boastfully," I would have come along and saved, for I have two guns, sir. "

"Who was at Rose Feral else?" Inquired the grocer. Colard thought about it and called Bach and
Bousquier, two notorious smugglers. "The hoodlums, they may guard against," said the shopkeeper,
"and you, Colard, come with me, poor Fualdes is buried, as it is not in the order to blow
the flute. "

No sooner had they reached the main road where a numerous crowd of people gathered had so suddenly
joined Bousquier to them that showed a strange behavior, sometimes laughed, shook his head
quickly, sometimes stupid hinglotzte on. Colard saw him shy of the page, and the shopkeeper,
the thought of nothing else than the murder and in all of the Antics of a bad conscience supposed
to see, watching the man sharply. The bystanders took notice and each is illuminated at once that if someone
in from the Bancal House crime could know what happened, this was Bousquier. Asked the excited
Galtier it literally and in a loud voice. Bousquier was drunk, the unusual Menschentumult intoxicated
him more, he seemed embarrassed, but felt at the same time as an
important person.

First he pretended he wanted to come out reluctantly, he told a solemn fussiness, that he had
been called night of the murder of a tobacco dealer in a blue coat, three times the stranger
had sent for him, then he came, who had a heavy ball and must be paid for with a gold piece.

Even
when talking of terror ran down the face of chattering people, and
he the meaning of his words was slow to realize.

The audience had a tight circle formed around him, and a voice rang out from the crowd schmetterndschrille:
"Certainly has put the corpse in the ball! "

Bousquier looked very uneasy. He always had to start all over again, and the curious stitched
on it looks forced him to invent new small details, like that of Tobacconist had disappeared
suddenly and inexplicably that it has a black mask before the face
had been.

"Where did you have to carry the dead body," asked Galtier with clenched teeth. Bousquier silent
horror, then, threatened by the many Eyes intimidated, "he replied softly out," Against the
flow. "

Two hours later he was arrested and placed under lock and key. On the same evening He was brought
before the investigating judge, Monsieur Jausion, and now as the unhappy saw that it was serious,
that his talk was to be the witness that each of its Word was written down and that he must
stand up for them with freedom, and perhaps with life, since he was seized by fear. He denied
the story of the tobacco merchants and the heavy ball, and when the
judge was angry, he stopped completely.

In the prison cell returned, he fell into a dull brooding. "Just going out fresh, Bousquier," he
spoke the guard, "one not the masters must be bored, and if you're stubborn, you are evil Nights
have to be survived. "

Bousquier shook his head. The attendant went and brought a thick tome, and as he himself reading
was ignorant, he called another prisoner, and this was the law office , Read that one who witnessed
a crime and forced it voluntarily confess to a year in jail escape. The guard held the lantern next
to the yellow leather Face of the reader and nodded encouragingly to Bousquier. Bousquier
droned the Lord's Prayer to himself. crazy in big trouble and a way
out of trouble, he said at last, it all was the way he says at first,
but the tobacco dealer did not have a gold coin given, but only a
few silver coins.

He repeated the confession before the judge, despite the late hour was called.

The next morning all knew Rhodez, Bousquier have confessed that in Fualdes Bancalschen House slaughtered
and that the body had been borne on the night of river. At once were opened lips, which had been
imposed on the fear of a seal. Someone whose name not to learn, was wanted in front of the house
of the merchant Constans seen creeping shadows have, and he had observed that she made a few
steps further support and advice were met, after which he himself, the terrible knowing fled.
It was in vain after researching this witness, whose voice faded behind other voices as quickly and
but, as with an invisible hand, designed the first sketch to the
picture of the nocturnal death train had.
They were constrained, therefore, to rest where they were, hoping from day to day that Ian
would regain strength sufficient to bear the fatigue of a journey.  Thus the winter slowly
slipped away, and wild-fowl--the harbingers of spring--were beginning to awake the echoes of
the northern woods before Ian felt himself strong enough to commence the journey homewards.

That winter, with all its vicissitudes, hopes, fears, adventures, and pleasures, we must pass
over in absolute silence, and re-introduce our three friends on the evening of a fine spring
day, while riding over a sweep of prairie land in the direction of a thick belt of forest.

"The river must be somewhere hereabouts," said Ian, reining up on an eminence, and gazing earnestly
round him.

"Vas you ever here before?" asked Rollin.

"Ay, once, but not at this precise spot.  I don't quite recognise it.  I hope my long illness
has not damaged my memory."

"If we don't reach the river soon," said Victor, with something of weariness in his tone, "this
poor brute will give in."

Victor referred to his horse, which had been reduced by some unknown disease to skin and bone.

"However, I'm well able to walk," he continued, more cheerfully; "and it can't be long before
we shall fall in with the river, and some Indians, who will sell or lend us a canoe."

"Ah! my cheval is not much more better dan your von," said Rollin; and he spoke the truth,
for his horse was afflicted with the same disease that had attacked that of Victor.  Ian's
steed, however, was in excellent condition.

That night the invalid horses were freed from all their troubles by a pack of wolves while
their owners were asleep.  They had been "hobbled" so carelessly that they had broken loose
and strayed far from the encampment.  Being weak they fell an easy prey to their sneaking enemies.

Next day, however, the three friends reached the river of which they were in search, found
a family of Indians there who bartered with them a canoe and some provisions for the remaining
horse, and continued their homeward journey by water.

For a time all went well.  The river was in high flood, for the snow-fall there, as elsewhere,
had been unusually heavy, but all three were expert voyageurs, and succeeded in steering past
difficulties of all kinds, until one afternoon, when good fortune seemed to forsake them utterly. This wonderful invitation to us scared not
depend, to follow them. First, the staircase went up by Kalkfelsenstuecke crashed, the aufgestufet
been through the period before the steep rock face with hazel and Buchenbueschen are mixed.

Next they broke a paddle.  This was also easily replaced.  After that they ventured to run
a rapid which almost proved too much for them; it nearly overturned the canoe, and filled it
so full of water that they were compelled to land again, unload, and empty it.

"Dat is too bad," observed Rollin, with a growl of discontent.

"It might have been worse," said Ian.

"Bah!" returned Rollin.

"Pooh!" ejaculated Victor.

"Very good," said Ian; "I only hope the truth of my remark mayn't be proved to both of you."

It has been asserted by the enemies of Ian Macdonald that the catastrophe which followed was
the result of a desire on his part to prove the truth of his own remark, but we acquit him
of such baseness. 

No, it is the most holy Church remains alone to interpret the Scripture and the rule determine,
according to which we have set our Seelenfuehrung. And who is this church? It is not about
one or the other head, one or the other member of it, no! It is the holiest, most learned,
experienced men of all time, which together united have, by degrees, with the assistance of
the healing. Mind, this matching large and general building be listed, the meetings their thoughts
on the big each mitgetheilet to built mutual banished wrong Huemer and security, a certainty
of our most holy religion, given that no other can boast; she dug a reason and aufgefuehret a
parapet, the overwhelm the hell do not even can. Just as it is with the text of the healing. Scripture.
We have the Vulgate, we have a translation of the Vulgate approbirte, and Proverbs each an interpretation
of what the Church's approbation. Hence the agreement that each one must be surprised. Whether
you hear me talking to this remote corner of the world, or in the largest capital in a distant
land, the most awkward or the capabilities and all are a language , Live a Catholic Christian
is always twinkling hear, everywhere on sameness way be informed and edified, and that is what's making
the certainty of our faith, what gives us the sweet satisfaction and insurance, in which we are
connected one with another set live and in the knowledge that we are happier to again be able
to separate from each other. He had this speech, as in Discurs, one on the other, can follow
more in the inner comfortable feeling that he is more advantageous to us from a side show with the
sound a bigoted teaching addiction.


Turning to look in the direction indicated, they beheld a small Indian boy, absolutely naked,
remarkably brown, and gazing at them with a look of wonder that was never equalled by the most
astonished owl known to natural history.

Seeing that he was observed, the boy turned and fled like an antelope. Rollin uttered a yell,
and bounded away in pursuit.  The half-breed could easily have caught him, but he did not wish
to do so.  He merely uttered an appalling shriek now and then to cause the urchin to increase
his speed.  The result was that the boy led his pursuer straight to the wigwam of his father,
which was just what Rollin wanted.  It stood but a short distance from the scene of the wreck.

And now, when, to all appearance, they had reached the lowest turn in the wheel of fortune,
they were raised to the highest heights of joy, for the Indian proved to be friendly, supplied
them with provisions to continue their journey, and gave them a good bow and quiver of arrows
on their simple promise to reward him if he should visit them at Red River in the course of
the summer.  He had not a canoe to lend them, however. They were therefore constrained to complete
their journey over the prairies on foot.

"You see, I said that things might be worse," said Ian, as they lay on their backs beside each
other that night after supper, each rolled in his blanket and gazing complacently at the stars.

"Yes, but you did not say that they might also be better.  Why did not your prophetic soul
enable you to see further and tell of our present state of comparative good fortune, Mr Wiseman?"
asked Victor with a sigh of contentment.

"I did not prophesy, Vic; I only talked of what might be."

"Vat is dat you say? vat might be?" exclaimed Rollin.  "Ah! vat is is vorse.  Here am me, go
to bed vidout my smok.  Dat is most shockable state I has yet arrive to."

"Poor fellows!" said Ian, in a tone of commiseration.

"You indeed lose everything when you lose that on which your happiness depends."

"Bah!" ejaculated Rollin, as he turned his back on his comrades and went to sleep.

A feeling of sadness as well as drowsiness came over Victor as he lay there blinking at the
stars.  The loss of their canoe and all its contents was but a small matter compared with the
failure of their enterprise, for was he not now returning home, while Tony still remained a
captive with the red man?  Ian's thoughts were also tinged with sadness and disappointment
on the same account.  Nevertheless, he experienced a slight gleam of comfort as the spirit
of slumber stole over him, for had he not, after all, succeeded in killing a grizzly bear,
and was not the magnificent claw collar round his neck at that very moment, with one of the
claw-points rendering him, so to speak, pleasantly uncomfortable? and would he not soon see
Elsie? and--. Thought stopped short at this point, and remained there--or left him--we know
not which.

Again we venture to skip.  Passing over much of that long and toilsome journey on foot, we
resume the thread of our tale at the point when our three travellers, emerging suddenly from
a clump of wood one day, came unexpectedly to the margin of an unknown sea!

"Lak Vinnipeg have busted hisself, an' cover all de vorld," exclaimed Rollin, with a look of
real alarm at his companions.

"The Red River has overflowed, and the land is flooded," said Ian, in a low solemn voice.

"Surely, surely," said Victor, in sudden anxiety, "there must have been many houses destroyed,
since the water has come so far, but--but, father's house stands high."

Ian's face wore a troubled look as he replied--

"Ay, boy, but the water has come more than twelve miles over the plains, for I know this spot
well.  It must be deep--very deep--at the Willow Creek."

"Vat shall ye do vidout bot or canoe?"

Rollin's question was not heeded, for at that moment two canoes were seen in the distance coming
from the direction of Lake Winnipeg.  One was paddled by an Indian, the other by a squaw and
a boy.  They made straight for the spot where our travellers were standing.  As they drew near,
Victor hailed them.  The boy in the bow of the foremost canoe was observed to cease paddling.
As he drew nearer, his eyes were seen to blaze, and eager astonishment was depicted on his
painted face.  When the canoe touched land he leaped of it, and, with a yell that would have
done credit to the wildest redskin in the prairie, rushed at Victor, leaped into his arms,
and, shouting "Vic!  Vic!" besmeared his face with charcoal, ochre, vermilion, and kisses!

To say that Victor was taken by surprise would be feeble language.  Of course he prepared for
self-defence, at the first furious rush, but the shout of "Vic!" opened his eyes; he not only
submitted to be kissed, but returned the embrace with tenfold interest, and mixed up the charcoal,
ochre, and vermilion with his mouth and pose and Tony's tears of joy.

Oh, it was an amazing sight, the meeting of these brothers.  It is hard to say whether the
eyes or the mouth of the onlookers opened widest. Petawanaquat was the only one who retained
his composure.  The eyes of Meekeye were moistened despite her native stoicism, but her husband
stood erect with a grave sad countenance, and his blanket folded, with his arms in classic
fashion, on his breast.  As for Rollin, he became, and remained for some time, a petrifaction
of amazement.

When the first burst was over, Victor turned to Petawanaquat, and as he looked at his stern
visage a dark frown settled on his own, and he felt a clenching of his fists, as he addressed
the Indian in his native tongue.

"What made you take him away?" he demanded indignantly.

"Revenge," answered the red man, with dignified calmness.

"And what induces you now to bring him back?" asked Victor, in some surprise.

"Forgiveness," answered Petawanaquat.

For a few moments Victor gazed at the calm countenance of the Indian in silent surprise.

"What do you mean?" he asked, with a puzzled look.

"Listen," replied the Indian slowly.  "Petawanaquat loves revenge.  He has tasted revenge.
It is sweet, but the Indian has discovered a new fountain.  The old white father thirsts for
his child.  Does not the white man's Book say, `If your enemy thirst, give him drink?'  The
red man brings Tonyquat back in order that he may heap coals of fire on the old white father's
head.  The Great Spirit has taught Petawanaquat that forgiveness is sweeter than revenge."

He stopped abruptly.  Victor still looked at him with a puzzled expression.

"Well," he said, smiling slightly, "I have no doubt that my father will forgive you, now that
you have brought back the child." Maybe it was that insomniacs, perhaps the mouth of the nameless rumor itself, which
the painting of the murder caravan around the figure of a large, broad-shouldered man, enriched was provided
with a shotgun and walked ahead of the train as leaders. Now had the gray fabric and a center
was a kind of illumination and recovery by the probable and incomprehensible wickedness of an individual.
Twelve hours, and each child was aware of the precise arrangement of the night train: first,
the big strong man with the shotgun, and then Bancal Colard and Bach and Bousquier, the stretcher-bearing,
then the hunchback Missoni as watchdogs and rear. In the last houses of the city was the way
to the narrow river and precipitous, and it was not enough room for two people side by side,
and Bousquier Colard the corpse had to bear alone, and Bousquier was not Missoni, which on
this occasion cursed, cursed so loudly that the licentiate Coulon them from sleep and woke up
after his Diener said. On the steep vineyards of the body before the body of the dead was losgewickelt,
was thrown into the water and as it happened, put the big strong man to participants at gunpoint
to eternal silence.

By this act the stranger entered the shotgun completely out of the fog of Legendary and the mere picturesque
being there, threatening gesture from his light gushed about the past. What happened after the murder,
had now outline and movement. But had no eye to the poor Fualdes accompanied on his last journey,
no one had seen him oblivious to his house leave and, perhaps whistling cheerfully to himself
through the gloomy Rue de l'Ambrague gone, in which the murder was certainly assistants were
on the watch? Yes. Same Licentiate, frightened the Bousquiers curse from their slumber, had
the old clock in the evening at eight turn into the lane and shortly afterwards he was seeing someone
followed with haste, whether a man or a woman, which could not recall Mr. Coulon. Furthermore,
reported a locksmith, who had maintained before the house of the mayor's people gave each other signs. The
house Although the mayor was in the opposite part of the city, but came at a so far little conspiracy
spun into consideration, but they had the testimony of a coachman, saw standing motionless
at eleven clock in the Rue des Hebdomadiers two people. Now remembered Many residents of this street,
they whisper resistant, clear his throat and call had heard of course without their mood at that
time but to make sure innocent. It was a foregone Thing that guards were posted at every corner,
so we even had a female sentinel noticed in the doorway of the guild house. The tailor Brost claimed
the whisper or sigh heard more clearly than any other to have, and he then had the window open
and saw five or six people go to Bancalsche house, including the big strong man Quite some While
later, his neighbor had watched a man being dragged across the pavement; He had thought it was
a girl, you made drunk, and had no more sense looking behind it. Much more significant as
so confused rumors, it seemed that even between had nine and ten clock an organ grinder on the
Rue des Hebdomadiers turned his organ. The Intention was clear: the death cries of the victim
should be drowned. It soon out that it must have been two-gurdy men, one of which, a cripple, at
the curbstone Perched in front of the Rue de l'Ambrague was. Of course that day was fair in
Rhodez been and the presence of lyre men would therefore have had nothing mysterious about
when the late Hours had not given up the suspicion. Some even called the midnight as a time their
game. It was sought by the musicians and the villages of the neighborhood were searched for them,
but they were also disappeared as the suspicious tobacconist.

On the same morning on which the Bancalsche house was searched and a police officer in court
a white cloth with dark spots were found, the couple Bancalsche the
soldier Colard, Bach and the working man Missoni arrested and loaded
with chains, put in jail.

Hinstierend stump sat the five people on the wagon, they drove through the streets, and the
crowd surrounding chatter, cursing and clenching fists. In no time, the news disseminated from
the source of cloth, that the stains were blood stains on them, was under no Doubt, that it had
served to gag Fualdes was, of course.

However, had Bousquier, losing in his poor situation all maintenance, from interrogation interrogation
hunted, frightened by threats, tortured by hunger, freedom from false
hopes and Promises seduced day got more and more.

Drove him to the guard, drove him to the Judge, for this was acting under the impatience and
anger of the people and the Gefabel the Newspapers such as under a whip. Bousquier seemed obdurate, and
the suspension of his former Stories, which were now his creditors and he extorted exorbitant
rates higher and higher the lie was enough to make him tame. He seemed tired, he seemed incapable
of what he perceived to give words to describe what he heard, - Monsieur Jausion supported
him through Issues on which the required response was contained.

He admitted that he had come into the house Bancalsche and that the couple Bancal, the tobacconist,
Colard the soldier, the smuggler Bach, two young women and a veiled
lady had been in the room.

The more people he called, an ever more conciliatory expression showed the face of the judge, and still
the jaws of a hungry animal, he threw indifferent Chunk to chunk out. He might well be from
other nights of the colorful society in Bancal Office remember, and so it the person of the veiled
lady appeared as an ingredient was able to increase his credit. But Monsieur Jausion found
that lack of an important figure, and he asked sternly whether Bousquier have not forgotten anyone.
Bousquier was shocked and thought. "Recollect you well, Bousquier," urged the judge, "are hiding
what you can to knit be your neck. So saying, was there not also a big strong man, "Bousquier?
saw that this new person belongs to. Shadowy figure in shadow form, and disorderly adventurous, dipped
up in his shattered head, and he had to play dolls, to satisfy his tormentors. When asked how
the big strong man looked like and how he was dressed, he said, "like a gentleman."

And now it was told to revive the scene. was on the large table in Bancal Room not of the bales of
tobacco, whose sake he was called, but a dead body. He wanted flee, as he hurried to the big
strong man and threatened him with the gun.

The judge shook his head reproachfully. "With the gun," he said. "Think, Bousquier, It was not maybe
a gun? It was not a shotgun?

"Well, then, thought Bousquier angry when one is obsessed with a gun, it may also have been a gun,
and he nodded, as he felt ashamed, and continued that he, thus threatening the life, in Bancal
had to stay and make the office assistants. The body was wrapped in a linen cloth, entwined with
ropes and placed on the stretcher. This was a stretcher with the help of prison guard Invented
in Bousquiers prepared to perfection. But as he is now the funeral should describe the tortured
man lost consciousness, and how late in the evening out again for questioning was - rarely failed the
night and the candle light in the desert Hall's ghostly effects - because he denied, contrary
to expectations from everything, cried shouted, prayed and acted completely pointless. To
encourage him and to calm, took Monsieur To Jausion As a simple and bold means, he said, namely,
Bach and Colard had today also made a confession, and it is gratifying that their data with
those Bousquiers coincide, and if he is now behaving properly, he was soon to prison allowed
to leave.

Bousquier started. The longer he thought, a deeper impression he ever made the heard. His face was
pale and his whole body was cold.

It was like a wild dream suddenly undeniable guards or how someone who, at half the mendacious drunkenness
History tells of a tragedy and with each new detail woven into huge lies , Suddenly learns that
occurred in all true. A strange melancholy took possession of him, he dreaded being alone in his
cell and he felt fear sleep.

In a fever of greed all Rhodez had listened to the information Bousquiers. Finally got the
Shape of the unknown with the shotgun nearby and tangibility.

That he looked like a Mr. incited the anger of the people, and the Legitimacy party, typically
in the Rich and noble composed, began to tremble. Probably was in their midst for the first time
the name referred to the first caution, then boldly, then accusing of mouth ran to the mouth
and above the storm cloud that had formed from a strip of fog, lightning quivering stood still.
It was known that Bastide Grammont, the tenant of La Morne, despite its Relationship with the
lawyer Fualdes in hostility or at least in the oppressive dependence a debtor to the old man lived. Everyone
knew or believed it to be known that it often had been stormy appearances between uncle and
nephew. Was not that enough? The purpose imperious temper and harsh nature Bastides, the quick sale
of La Morne and a well-structured Suspected ring of small features, who could doubt it?

The tireless Smith, who was there somewhere in the air or under ground at work caused, ensure that the ring
of destruction and shut himself campaigned with his sly humor journeyman
on all streets, in high and low.

On the morning of the nineteenth of March, and Fualdes Grammont on the promenade of Rhodez up and
came off. A Trödlerin had heard the boy said to the old. "So this evening at eight clock" A
mason who on a new building Shoveling sand, had heard how Fualdes Monsieur exclaimed: "So do
you take me word" What? Bastide Grammont said, "Calm down, tonight I am not giving you the
bill." The music teacher Lacombe remembered clearly how the old man with Bastide zornfinsterem
face shouted. "You drive me to extremes," The random chatter won a babbler in the busy hearsay
same importance as the proven honest perception, and What about before or after what has been talked
mixed, and linked to cheeky Arbitrariness. Professor Vignet so wanted, one of the leaders of the
royalists, in the evening at seven clock, shortly before the murder, have been in a fruit shop
and met there a colleague. He said that he saw Bastide Grammont, who passed away in quite a
hurry to him was. He claimed to have exclaimed: "Do not you find that a weird face Grammont
has? "To which the other replied in the affirmative and said that one should beware of the man.
It reported the witnesses who confirmed the interview. It witnesses came forward, the front
of the Bastide Bancalschen house would have seen, he had repeatedly uttered a sharp whistle
and then ducked into the shade.

For five years, lived on La Bastide Grammont Morne. He was perhaps the only man in throughout
the district, which is never troubled by politics and stayed away from all party and bustle,
and this proud independence gave him the ill will and even the hatred
of his fellow award.

As should take place once in Rhodez a rally for the Bourbons and the streets of a excited crowd
were fulfilled, he rode on his dapple gray gravitätischkühl by heated groups and smiled the
injured wild eyes that met him with contempt contrary.

It was said that he had wasted his youth and a considerable fortune in Paris and that he was
tired of people from there returned to their homeland. His practice indicated on the strange-loving
spirit.

In previous years, was a learned priest of the adjacent Benedictine abbey often been his guest,
and it had seemed as if the quiet man and human nature in the unbound nature and the pagan worship
of nature rutting the hermit Bastide had his secret joy, but as a seamstress from Alby Bastide,
the lovely Charlotte Arlabosse, forcibly abducted and had lived in sin with her, had the Benedictines,
obeying the orders of his superiors, stop traffic.

From then on, Bastide declined at all in any confidentiality. He had no friends, wanted no
friend.

Haughtily he closed off, and the sight of a new face was his features strange and cold, the people
of the society, he met with offensive indifference. Perhaps it was only the fear of disappointment,
if he is also the warmest Advertise brusquely refused, because it was sometimes in the depths of his eyes
the desire even more uncertain Love. Hart, complain because unmet demands and darken the soul,
left alone, because of factual pride hesitates to offer the heart glowed and without justice be
out of shame and misunderstanding Despite that perhaps his fate and secure his debt.

For days he wandered about with his dogs in the valleys of the Cevennes.

He collected stones, Mushrooms, flowers, birds and snakes began hunted, fished and sang. Was it
something in the way and was his blood boil, so he took the most fiery horse from the stable
and rode around on the dangerous rocky paths to Rieux. In winter, cold morning hour, he was seen
in Water of the river to bathe in hot summer nights he lay naked and feverish in the open
Sky. He then claimed that he saw the stars dance and feel the earth tremble. Around the time
the harvest was he, without ever drinking, as in the noise, he organized parties with music and
Torchlight and made the patron saint of love affairs with the winemaker people. In long-continued
bad weather, he was pale, limp and overly sensitive, lost sleep and Appetite, and fell into
sudden fits of rage, which were the terror of his people, at a such occasion, he felled with
an ax once half a dozen of the most magnificent trees in the Garden, which he knew like everyone
loved so passionately, as if they were his brothers.

That little disordered in his management of the income of the estate from year to year, was not
surprising as his own. He got into debt, but to speak about it or because to think, gave him the
greatest reluctance and what he took, however, was a regular Participation in different lotteries,
that he always drawing date with childish impatience expected.

       * * * * *

As the court of opinion and unmistakable indictment of the people obeying the arrest Bastides ordered,
it already knew what was in the works against him. He was sitting with a wood carving employed
under a huge plane tree, as the ushers appeared in the yard. Charlotte Arlabosse rushed to
him and grabbed his arm, but he freed himself and said, "Let them only grant the abscess is ripe for
a long time.

"By an ironic grandeur, he joined the armed counter and said, "Your servant, my Lord."

The residents of La Morne were subjected to a rigorous interrogation. After Bastides own statement
He was riding on the afternoon of March following the nineteenth Rhodez; clock in the evening
at seven, he was Been with his sister in the village of Gros, where he had stayed, was the
morning after La Morne back, then sat on the news of the death of his uncle back to Rhodez and
had about half an hour stopped in Fualdes house. His sister confirmed that he spends the night
at her house was, and added that he was talking very cheerful and
amiable.

The maid who waited on him and the bed had prepared, testified that he had gone to bed at ten
clock.

These witnesses were not believed, indeed, they were soon taken as a suspect in custody. talked
of the people at La Morne one this, the other order this just something to say and not to stand
as fools or accomplices, they got entangled in speeches of meaningful darkness, and as a servant
said that the gray mare of the Lord, if they furnish to speak, could
tell of acidic rides that night.

The maids babbling or shed tears, Charlotte Arlabosse fled even been in the vineyards seized
and taken to city jail.

Bousquier and his companions were these events not hidden, so it was notified to them by minor
circumstances with significant stress in order to make them safe and nachzuhelfen her memory. Mainly
to the smugglers creek had now the coroner except that one had as well as the first couple Bancal
no indication to move. He had frightened judges and guards with violent fits of rage and was
a punishment and subjugation been put in chains. Without really knowing it, this man was suffering
from tremendous yearning after his liberty, because he was the model of a roving vagabonds
and rascals. In One night when he had tried to kill by squeezing the throat, made him Monsieur
Jausion acquainted with the confessions of his comrades Bousquier and told him for its part,
to abandon the fruitless obstinacy. As suddenly changed the Behavior of man, he seemed happy,
was chatty and mischievous grin said, "Well well if Bousquier know much, so I know more. "And in fact,
he knew more. He was a stutterer and took advantage of this evil, to gain time for reflection, when the
imagination wanted to weaken, and as often as he strayed into the
area of ​​the fairy-tale, brought him the astute Monsieur Jausion
gently back onto the road of reality.

He told us so: When he entered the room with Bousquier, the lawyer Fualdes sat on a chair at
the table and had to sign change. The big strong man, Bastide Grammont namely, - No doubt
it was Grammont, Bach is the familiar messages of the judge and the eloquent Fama - put the signed papers
in his wallet. Meanwhile Women cooked Bancal a snack, chicken with vegetables and veal with rice,
a major shading, through which the coolness of the killers was known. Shortly before eight clock
came two reels in, but the face of the farmer or the strange man did not like them, they did
disrupt and went back, and then the front door was locked. But was then knocked several times;
the agreed signal were three short blows with his fist and gradually came to the Colard soldier
with his lover, the hunchbacked Missoni, a noble lady disguised with green feathers on the hat
and a tobacco dealer in the blue skirt. The hat with green feathers was a special proof of
Bach's ingenuity and stabbed on the picturesque credible blauröckigen
tobacco man.

At half past eight clock Bancal woman brought her daughter Magdalene to the attic to sleep, and
now Bastide Grammont said the old man that he must die. The incantatory prayer the victim had no
other result than that it took the strong and despite his Bastide strong reluctance on the table
laid, from which Bancal quickly took away two loaves of bread, which some someone had brought. Fualdes
cried miserably, we might give him a second and so that he could
be reconciled with the sky, but Bastide Grammont replied curtly: "Reconcile
up with the devil!

"

This broke the story and asked Monsieur Jausion with ingenuous curiosity if not, would have started
playing maybe at this moment a barrel organ in front of the house. Bach confirmed it eagerly,
and continued in his report, which now caused himself tension and horror: Colard and Bancal thought
the old man's legs, while the tobacco merchants and Colard lover Arms and head wrapped. A
man with a wooden leg and a three-cornered hat was similar to Candle high. The emergence of this
new figure was something uncanny and when they have nothing should be represented as a partially
completed the cloudy night of the murder flourish, so filled they admirably its purpose. The candle-holding
wooden leg like a wicked shadow the underworld, and it was not needed,
the narrow chin, smirking mouth, the ghostly Eye to describe particularly.

With

a wide diameter Bastide Grammont said the old man a prick; by a superhuman Effort succeeded Fualdes to
pull away, he jumped up, ran, wounded, even in death, with a hoarse gurgling through the room;
Bastide Grammont after him, grabbed him, threw him broke again on the table, the table staggered,
one leg, and now wore the dying on two Banks quickly moved together and Bastide Grammont thrust
the knife deep into his neck. With the last sighs of the old man came Bancal and his wife,
and began flowing down the Blood in an earthen pot on, which ran on the boards scuffed, from
the women. In the Pockets of the murdered man was found a five-franc piece, and several Sous
malice. Bastide Grammont threw the money into the apron of the Bancal and said, "Take! we do
not kill this money sake. "It is also a key was found, the Bastide put to him. Woman had Bancal
Desire for the fine shirt of the dead lust and noticed that it looked like a surplice, but they
drew on their desire, by gave her an amethyst ring from Fualdes finger. This ring was the next
day by an unknown gentleman in return for compensation ten o'clock Franken brought back.

As Bach's story with all its awkwardness and their hypocritical wealth
strange and illuminating information was known was missing, not much
and you would have the imaginative Rogues as a savior celebrated.

The indignation fueling the belief and criticism appeared as a betrayal. The public, the witnesses,
the judge, the authorities, all believed in the act and mitzudichten all began. Bach and Bousquier
which were compared with each other, disputing and the others complained of a liar, and before
one wanted the other to the murder to Bancalsche House will come to the one claimed to have accessed,
the other was have only the charge in a blanket and strapped with ropes corpse. The stupid Missoni
identified a number of other people he saw in the home Bancalschen had two notaries from Alby
and a cook. In the pub the Rose Feral, where all sorts of bad Individuals and perverted old
war deeds and thefts were discussed, was the murder night discussed the looting of a house that
belonged to a liberal. This rumor was out calculated to increase the terror of the peaceful
citizens, and that after all the conspirators, even wealthy people in Bancal assembled at home
might, no further notice. All voted in the confused and hellish tissue; was in the clothes of the
dead no Fualdes Money was found on his fingers with rings; Grammont had on the seventeenth of
March had the bailiffs in the house and this circumstance, driven up in time from the Lying swamp,
gave security. Bastide was hopelessly entangled. The prisoners each other got into trouble
by the palpable anxiety of the people, and each appeared to others as guilty, each was what
you wanted to know from the other in order to relieve himself; she knew her fate, she lost
the sense of the meaning of words, they felt not themselves, their bodies, their souls, they
found themselves embraced by an invisible Clip and each sought to solve their own account,
without knowing what he was actually have done or left undone.
  Oh, yes; I forgot," he added, springing towards the attic.  "Blessings on you,
Beauty, for having guided me here!"

In a few seconds a stout rope or cable was procured.  The end of this Ian ran out at the main
doorway, round through the parlour window, and tied it in a trice.  The other end he coiled
in the punt, and soon made it fast to a stout elm, under whose grateful shade Angus Macdonald
had enjoyed many a pipe and Martha many a cup of tea in other days.  The tree bent slowly forward;
the thick rope became rigid.  Ian and Peegwish sat in the boat anxiously looking on.

In that moment of enforced inaction Ian conceived an idea!  Thought is quick, quicker than
light, which, we believe, has reached the maximum of "express speed" in material things.  By
intermittent flashes, so rapid that it resembled a stream of sparks, the whole plan rushed
through his mind, from conception to completion.  We can only give a suggestive outline, as
follows.  The impossible had, in the wondrous course of recent events, come just within the
verge of possibility--a stout arm, a strong will, coupled with a high flood--"There is a tide
in the affairs of men, which, taken at the flood,"--immortal and prophetic bard!  There could
be no chance of Elsie now, but even to win the right to claim her if she had been willing was
better than nothing.  In any case old Angus and the knoll would be united!

"Peegwish!" shouted Ian, turning on the unfortunate ex-brewer with a flushed face and blazing
eyes that caused him to shrink in alarm, "can you sit still and do nothing?"

"Eh?" exclaimed Peegwish, in surprise.

"Bah!" said Ian, seizing the sculls.

The punt whirled round, leaped over the water, dashed through the doorway, and went crashing
into the staircase.  Before Peegwish could pick himself up, Ian had vanished up the stairs.
The savage found him a moment later wildly selecting a rope from the heap that lay on the floor
of the attic.  As Peegwish entered, Ian suddenly turned on him with a gaze of increased intensity.
Had the young man gone mad?  Peegwish felt very uncomfortable.  He had some reason to!  Another
thought had flashed into Ian's mind--the words "your own unaided hands" troubled him. Peegwish
could be kept out of the boat, but he could not be kept from rendering aid of some sort, in
some way or other.  There was but one resource.

Ian sprang on Peegwish like a lion.  The savage was both bold and strong, but he was elderly,
and Ian was young and bolder; besides, he had the unusual strength of a half-madman at that
moment.  Down went the ex-brewer.  He struggled hard.  Ian crushed him in his arms, raised
him, crammed him into a chair, seized a pliant rope and bound him therewith, winding him and
the chair round and round in his haste--for there was no time to tie knots--until he resembled
a gigantic spool of ravelled thread.  Not a moment too soon!  There was a snap outside; the
rope was gone!  A grind, a slide, and then a lurch, as of a ship at sea.

Ian is on the staircase now, in the punt, and out upon the flood with a stout rope fast to
the stern and to the door-post.  Panting from his recent exertions, and half-wild with the
mingled excitement, danger, novelty, and fun of the thing, he draws two or three long breaths
as he grasps the sculls and looks quickly round.

The house moves sluggishly, probably retarded by sunken shrubs, or dragging debris connected
with the foundation.  This is somewhat of a relief.  There is time.  He pulls ahead till the
rope tightens, and then stands up in the punt to observe the situation critically.  The current
is bearing him straight towards the knoll.  So far well; but there are two slightly diverging
currents on right and left, caused by the knoll itself, which are so strong that if the house
should get fairly into either of them no power that he possessed could prevent its being swept,
on the one hand, into the main current of the Red River, on the other hand away over the flooded
plains.  To watch with lynx eyes the slightest tendency to divergence on the part of the house
now absorbs his whole being.  But thought again intervenes.  What if he should be observed
by those at Willow Creek, and they should send assistance? horror!  But by good fortune all
the males at the Creek have departed, and none are left but women.  He casts one of the lynx
glances in that direction--no one is coming.  He breathes again, freely.  Suddenly the house
diverges a little to the right.  Away flies the punt to the left, and he is just about to bend
to the sculls with the force of Goliath, when he perceives his mistake--the divergence was
to the left!  In agonies of haste he shoots to the other side, where he discovers that the
divergence must have been in his own excited brain, for the house still holds on the even tenor
of its way; and Ian, puffing straight ahead, tightens the rope, and helps it on its voyage.

Presently there is a sudden, and this time a decided divergence to the right--probably caused
by some undercurrent acting on the foundations. Away goes the punt in the opposite direction,
and now Goliath and David together were babes to Ian!  Talk of horse-power. Elephanto-hippopotamus-Power
is a more appropriate term.  The muscles of his arms rise up like rolls of gutta-percha; the
knotted veins stand out on his flushed forehead, but all in vain--the house continues to diverge,
and Ian feeling the game to be all but lost, pulls with the concentrated energy of rage and
despair.  The sculls bend like wands, the rowlocks creak, the thole-pins crack.  It won't do.
As well might mortal man pull against Niagara falls.

At this moment of horrible disappointment the house touches something submerged--a post, a
fence, a mound; he knows not nor cares what--which checks the divergence and turns the house
back in the right direction.

What a rebound there is in Ian's heart!  He would cheer if there were a cubic inch of air to
spare in his labouring chest--but there is not, and what of it remains must be used in a tough
pull to the opposite side, for the sheer given to the building has been almost too strong.
In a few minutes his efforts have been successful.  The house is bearing steadily though slowly
down in the right direction.

Ian rests on his oars a few seconds, and wipes his heated brow.

So--in the great battle of life we sometimes are allowed to pause and breathe awhile in the
very heat of conflict; and happy is it for us if our thoughts and hearts go out towards Him
whose love is ever near to bless those who trust in it.

He is drawing near to the knoll now, and there seems every chance of success; but the nearer
he draws to the goal the greater becomes the risk of divergence, for while the slack water
at the head of the knoll becomes slacker, so that the house seems to have ceased moving, the
diverging currents on either side become swifter, and their suction-power more dangerous. 
The anxiety of the pilot at this stage, and his consequent shooting from side to side, is far
more trying than his more sustained efforts had been.

At last the punt reaches the smoking-box, which itself stands in several feet of water, for
the ground of the knoll is submerged, its bushes alone being visible.  There is only the length
of the rope now between our hero and victory!  In that length, however, there are innumerable
possibilities.  Even while he gazes the house bumps on something, slews round, and is caught
by the current on the right.  Before Ian has time to recover from his agony of alarm, and dip
the sculls, it bumps again and slews to the left; a third favouring bump sends it back into
the slack water.  The combined bumps have given an impulse to the house under the influence
of which it bears straight down upon the knoll with considerable force.  Its gable-end is close
to the smoking-box. Entranced with expectancy Ian sits in the punt panting and with eyes flashing.
There is a sudden shock!  Inside the house Peegwish and his chair are tumbled head over heels.
Outside, the gable has just touched--as it were kissed--the smoking-box, Elsie's "summer-house;"
Beauty, flapping her wings at that moment on the ridge-pole, crows, and Angus Macdonald's dwelling
is, finally and fairly, hard and fast upon Sam Ravenshaw's knoll.

CHAPTER TWENTY THREE.

FOUND AND SAVED.

Now it must not be imagined that old Liz, after being carried away by the flood, submitted
to her fate without a struggle.  It was not in her nature to give in without good reason. 
She did not sit down and wring her hands, or tear her hair, or reproach her destiny, or relieve
her feelings by venting them on the old couple under her charge.  In short, she did not fall
back in her distress on any of the refuges of the imbecile.

Her first care was to arrange Daddy and Mrs Winklemann in such a manner that they could sleep
with some degree of comfort in their chairs.  This she did by means of pillows and blankets,
and, after accomplishing it, sat down on the wet bed to contemplate the pair.  Her satisfaction
was soon marred, however, by the discovery that Mrs Winklemann was given to kicking in her
sleep.  In one of the spasmodic lunges with her lower limbs she gave Daddy's legs such a shake
that the old gentleman was half awakened by the surprise.

It will be remembered that the pair were seated vis-a-vis in their respective arm-chairs, with
a low table between them, and their legs resting thereon.  To prevent a recurrence of the kick
Liz put a piece of broken plank between them on the table, and by means of a rope wound round
legs and table, effectually restrained the unruly members.

She then returned to her place on the soaking truckle-bed, and, leaning her wet shoulders against
the wall, endeavoured to think what was to be done when the return of day should enable her
to act.  To act was easy to Liz, but thought was difficult.  In attempting it she fell sound
asleep.  Her shape helped her; she did not require to lie down.  Her head merely dropped on
one of her fat shoulders.  The rotundity of her frame rendered a collapse impossible.  Thus
she slept and snored until daylight shone through the parchment windows--until Daddy awoke
her with a gasping cough.

"Hough!  Hi!  Liz, there's sumthin' wrang wi' my legs!" There was a brief exchange of words, Tom Alexander knocked down the girl and
Bill Alexander, no ear, put on their violence, while she lay unconscious, which boasted he later
because Sara had done everything to their cronies will, only had her body they are not given. It
took weeks, Mary Tracy accidentally learned that when Mrs. Sara Duncomb stand in the service. Immediately
it was decided to exploit that fact, but the attempts was allowed during the day you are not
seen again, even off, to approach Sara were unsuccessful Fear that Sarah would betray, and at
night the house was like a locked fortress. But when the spy customer brought a rich, Scottish
nobleman, had Francis Rhymer, at Mrs. Duncomb up quarters, Tom and Bill wanted to do something
at all costs. With rope ladders, saws and explosives they made their way and arrived just to
the time when the moon was sinking behind the roofs of the houses. First they wanted the gate
pound in a way had to know Sara and because they slept nahbei, also could hear. Then, when another
opened, it had just happened to him if he unarmed and was unaware. Very surprised now, the poor,
as they saw the door open, thinking in a trap. Carefully she waited, and nothing suspicious
was found. Mary Tracy stayed on Guard, the two Alexander went into it, crawled to the stairs, a
glimmer of light above facilitated the way, and they found a door open to office. Mary Tracy,
in the the darkness stood by as the Scot got off the car, his appearance had them described,
and when they saw the sleeping man, they did not doubt that they sacrifice their had achieved.
They were knowledgeable and skilled workers heads and they knew where hidden treasures could be that
the purpose demanded a gruesome act of them, and so it came as had to happen because it was
sealed from the start with the course of events.

When Sara came back and in the dark before the Duncombschen home saw
a figure, she was terrified, because now it was aware of how they
acted criminally that they respect the non-sleeping house left.

She came closer, and Mary Tracy, searching whoever it was, to meet her. As recognized the two.
"Is that you, Sara," said Mary confidential and put his arm around the shoulder of the girl. Sara's
heart was filled with gloomy forebodings. She was so upset that she is unable was to keep on his
legs and settled on the stone stairs. Mary Tracy asked with feigned affection, as had been her
where she came from now in the dead of night and whether or not they would again come out with free
in life. Sara listened absently into the air, she felt that something bad was going on in the
house, then she put her hands her face and began to weep bitterly. "Do leave off," commanded Mary
Tracy looked anxiously straßauf straßab and the windows. "Do leave, we give you money." Well I
was until under the archway at Fig Tree Court, "lamented Sara into their wines. "I wanted
to a church and wanted to pray, and when I found one, everything was closed. Why is God in his own
house locked up? "Still firmly they held his hands pressed to his face, nor was her stormy
wines. Hastily scurried out of the gate, the two Alexander; nacktfüßig flashed it, listened
forward, listened disconcerted, listened into the street and whispered, her hands raised to
mouth: "Go away! gone! continued, "Then they jumped off without Sara have just seen. Mary Tracy
followed them with a cry of rage and they feared for the being cheated prey.

The dawn twilight. Sara went into the house and locked the bolt. Inside all was quiet as before.
She staggered into her room and fell on the straw. She could not sleep. The links rested, but
his eyes were burning and chest.

I am a lost woman, she thought. It was brighter. Then she saw on the ceiling is a red spot. Just
across the room where Sara was, was Francis Rhymers room. What a stain like that? went through
her head, and behold, there is something dripping down, and after a while again, it was dripping
on her shirt. In the clear becoming light, she saw that it was his blood. Now, its interior
was as stiff as if death had gripped into it. I am a lost woman, she repeated as she got up. The
baker was already knocking the house. Half an hour later, the girl awake and running saw the blood
and was horrified at the hall. Sara had gone to the milk whey for the champagne; When she returned,
a crowd of people stood outside the home. "One was killed," told it today. Master Knight, which
also belonged to the inhabitants of the lodging house, looked from the second floor in her
nightgown down and cried. Sara pushed his way silently through the people and reached the goal.
Mrs. Eben Duncomb fainted by Anne Love and Miss Oliphant carried down the stairs, her maid Elizabeth
Harrison, a sickly creature who had clutching the lifeless post. Then came Master Kerrel the
stairs down, and he was white in the face, it looked at him that he wanted to say something and
could not, remained in horror him the language. He was only five clock in the morning come
home, as long as he had driven around in the coffee houses of Covent Garden. He had noticed
nothing suspicious, Francis Rhymers room had been closed. John Gehagan roar was heard above the
pain, because he complained in the most expensive friend murdered. The mob crowded into the house.
John Kerrel and the groom had trouble to prevent the men that they stormed the stairs. Sara
looked for a while motionless to all this, suddenly she shuddered convulsively and drove with
both hands to his temples. She jumped up the stairs, rushed into the room the unfortunate young
man, and threw himself in front of the bed without a sound from her lips came. "You Höllenhure,
shear 'you away," shouted John Gehagan, seized her by the hair and wegzerren wanted it from
the bed on which lay the pale man with divided neck. Since Sara looked at him with eyes that
face, he froze. Now he remembered her blood-covered Face of yesterday, and he was uneasy.
Some girls stood on the threshold and watch what was going on, including the cook, and she remembered
how Sarah evening in the red wine, such as wading in blood. The constable came. The crowd
outside had increased, but had managed to seal off the gate. As the fever-driven, was Sara
from the room, staggered down, busied herself in the kitchen, turned with furrowed brow to the
fire, warming his hands. Sometimes one sometimes the other came from the girls. They whispered
and whispered; hour had passed, it was said: "Sara, You shall also be Gehagan Master. "Sara
went out, ran to John and John Gehagan Kerrel, both were waiting in the corridor, head bowed
over in her room. There she stood trembling, listening, fast breathing, until the men followed.
"Did you sleep through the night?" asked the master Kerrel milder. No answer. "Why is your
rock before the bloody knees?" asked John Gehagan. "I knelt up, you know it," she replied with
a barely audible Voice. "Your behavior is strange. Do you have money hidden on his body, girl?
"Inquired John Gehagan further. At the same time he stepped toward her, his hand stuck in her
breast tissue, examined the Breasts down, and as he felt it under his arm startled her and her
head flew back. As a piece of shirt with the blood stain was visible. "And where is this blood?"
Said Master Gehagan rough. Sara pointed in the air, "there have passed," she replied, without
the double meaning to be held. Meanwhile, John had to Kerrel searching the camp made of straw, and then
he went with a hoarse cry out the cup. The vessel wavered in his Faust, John Gehagan pressed her
hands against the stunned heart.

"I know I am a lost woman," cried Sara. "I will so gladly suffer death." She fell down and clung
to the legs Gehagans John so tightly that he could hardly loose. Her eyes were rolling and almost
passed, and a terrible sigh came from the depths of her pressed inside. John Kerrel hurried up,
soon there were two constables and led to Sara Prison in Newgate, as it was, with her working skirt
and a blue cap.

brought before the judge, Sir Roger Brocas, she could not speak. It was a pity they view. Sir Roger
felt compassion, spared them for the day and left them in the cell And flushed. They do not
lay down, they went around not, she stood motionless on the barred Window and looked out into
the dark yard and watched as it began to rain, and how It was night,
and heard the howling wind.

And as it is now so lonely and dark in order to become was because she suddenly felt a strange
throbbing in her womb. At first she paid little it, it was silent for a time, then repeated it
to further develop. 'm Amazed them to what it all meant, rap, and when it recurred for the third time
since transfigured the same heavenly blissful smile her face, as it was in a dream when Mrs.
Duncomb. She had a child in her lap. In the dream, the lover had married her in a dream he had
come in a dream he had blessed them. Together they crawled into a corner of the cold dark room
in itself, because it was so close previously found their anguish and grief, as far as he
was now their Rapture. She listened into the interior of her body, and again it moved, they thought
it felt, believed to feel each of the small Gliederchen, and now it was God grateful for the imposed
testing and looked forward to dying, the secret under the Heart. Certainly it was the same
lust-winning Angels, who together with her lover and they would escort the Todesweg up to the gate
of Paradise. "Poor little Beings, "talking it down and smiling right into her womb," are now in
darkness, but soon you'll be fully fledged, my little bird, and will have wings and 're going
to bathe in the light. "So they slept are gradual. No slightest doubt stirred against the miracle
that happened to her.

How surprised was the next day, Sir Roger, as Sara Malcolm serene and quiet trod before him,
on all questions, gave a clear answer, and neither repentance and contrition of a guilty still
the wonder and the pain of innocents was. The question of whether they committed the murder had,
she replied in the negative. She told me that they ran out of the house before they Church at
Fig Tree Court, where the lamp burns have been, was that they even
there the master Oaks have seen in the Thames Street.

What are you doing there? asked the judge. You I prayed, "she said. Then she had fallen and
was in front of Mrs. Duncombe House Mary Tracy hit, and they related what occurred afterward.
They also told how it had formerly been the companion of the two thieves Alexander when they
wretched and starving was mistaken by road. Parentless, homeless, she was always freundelos.
She recalled be located, as a child once gone to the sea, but where and to where they did not
know. In fact, she had little memory.

But when talking to the judge on the trophy that is still found in their lair, because they
remained silent, - not like a criminal who is afraid to tell, but like a person trying to keep
a secret and should be. The riddle itself inextricably and remained unresolved, they could not disclose,
her tongue had no words for it, and a inner voice told her to be silent. Then she was led back
into the cell and two Scharwächter came before which they had to
undress completely, and their clothes investigated aufbanden hair
and asked her if she had buried something, be it money was stolen.

Sara shook her head. "Since you have to to both Alexander To turn, "she said, and despite their
nakedness they behaved in such a way that the two old it wondered.

Mary Tracy, and the brothers Alexander could not be found. The next day was Sara got out of prison
and they were brought before the body of the murdered youth. The courts and the judges were there,
also John Gehagan and a constable. She looked silent on the waxen face, her eyes shone wet
and she folded direction moves the Hands. John Gehagan, beside himself with grief and anger,
clenched his fist and struck her before someone could prevent, in the face. She staggered, but
she did not cry, and soon she was back erect and covered his eyes with his arm, in which it
flared up.

"What are you doing to me, Master Gehagan "she murmured plaintively.

Then we went back to Newgate, and was confronted with the witnesses. They were mainly the women who
commented on Sarah's strange, hidden, witch-like shyness, also the story of the spilled wine
came up. Other set in, the Sara known in earlier times, and said from evil, and when a person sits
in the accident do others whom he disliked even miss their anger. She showed herself worthy
and solid. No superfluous word came from her lips, but not frivolous suspicion they let her go,
without the author with a sharp, even shrewd move to call and ask
the body, so that they often involve very embarrassed.

Get your way eventually caught Stir. Educated people came to see her and listen. It was a strange, proud
Being woken up in her since she was in jail. The guards, the constable, door closers, could all
her gentleness, her kindness, her cheerful nature and not accumulated enough , And they boast
freedoms enjoyed like no other prisoners. That it had happened to them, that was out of doubt,
we wanted to make her the dates slightly.

End of March she was sentenced to death, and told the guard with her at night, that they in Fleet
Street be hanged with six or seven others. They said nothing and looked clear eye, clear expression
in the air. The narrow face with a narrow chin changed in this minute, to a picture touching
humanity. Behind the forehead lived the belief in miracles and made them bright, dark eyes in death.

It
was a horrible storm that night. Sara walked into her cell and down. She had only the only concern
that no one might remember their pregnancy, already a little has been advanced, for a pregnant
woman could not be addressed.

As they point and down went the priest came into the cell, a mild man, the sinner with words considered
and the grace of repentance distributed according to the measure. Long as he spoke into Sara,
they should take an open confession, but they escaped all exhortations by one, if also friendly,
but obstinate silence, and in the end she said with heat: "If I a while in the grave located will
stand the truth. "

Then she was alone again, stretched out on the bed and listened happily, as impetuous the child
moved within her, as if it could not expect the time to come to light to . Enter


He touched, as he spoke, the splendid bear-claw collar which still graced his neck.

"I doubt not you have suffered," returned Elsie, in a softened tone, "but you are now well,
or nearly so, and your reason is not a sufficient one to account for your being rude to all
your old friends, and taking no interest in anything."

"Am I, then, so rude, so callous?" rejoined Ian, drawing his hand across his brow.  "Ah!  Elsie,
if--if--but what am I saying?  Forgive me!  I think that grizzly must have touched my brain
when he had me under his paw.  There can be no harm, however, in telling you that a wish, lightly
expressed by you long ago, has been the motive power which led to the procuring of this collar.
Will you accept it of me now?  It is but a trifle, yet, being a bad hunter, and more used to
grammars than to guns, it cost me no trifle of anxiety and trouble before I won it.  I am afraid
that the hope of procuring it for you had almost as much to do with cheering me on as the hope
of finding Tony.  Nay, don't refuse it, Elsie, from one who has known you so long that he feels
almost as if he might regard you as a sister."

He took off the collar as he spoke, and, with a return of his wonted heartiness, presented
it to Elsie.  There was something in his manner, however, which induced her to blush and hesitate.

"Your kindness in searching for Tony we can never forget or repay," she said quickly, "and--and--"

She paused.

"Well, well," continued Ian, a little impatiently; "I did not mean to talk of Tony just now.
Surely you won't refuse a gift from so old a friend as I on the eve of my departure for Canada?"

"For Canada!" echoed Elsie, in surprise.

"Yes.  I leave the instant I can get my affairs in Red River settled."

"And you return?"

"Never!"

Elsie looked at the youth in undisguised astonishment.  She, too, began to suspect that a claw
of the collar must have touched his brain.

"But why hesitate?" continued Ian.  "Surely you cannot refuse me so simple a favour!  Even
Lambert himself would approve of it in the circumstances."

"Lambert!" exclaimed Elsie, with increasing amazement; "what has Lambert got to do with it?"

It was now Ian's turn to look surprised.

"Forgive me if I have touched on a forbidden subject; but as every one in the settlement seems
to know of your engagement to Lambert, I thought--"

"My engagement!" interrupted Elsie.  "It is Cora who is engaged to Lambert."

A sudden and mighty shock seemed to fall on Ian Macdonald.  He slightly staggered, paled a
little, then became fiery red, leaped forward, and caught the girl's hand.

"Elsie!  Elsie!" he exclaimed, in tones of suppressed eagerness, "will-- will you accept the
collar?"

He put it over her head as he spoke, and she blushed deeply, but did not refuse it.

"And, Elsie," he added, in a deeper voice, drawing her nearer, "will you accept the hunter?"

"No," answered Elsie, with such an arch smile; "but I would accept the schoolmaster if he were
not going away to Canada for--"

She did not finish the sentence, because something shut her mouth.

"You're taking a very long time to that shingle," called Mrs Ravenshaw from below.  "Have you
got everything you want, Ian?"

"Yes," replied Ian promptly; "I've got all that the world contains."

"What's that you say?"

"It will soon be done now, mother," cried Elsie, breaking away with a soft laugh, and hurrying
down-stairs.

She was right.  A few minutes sufficed to put the loose shingle to rights, and then Ian descended
to the room below.

"What a time you have been about it!" said Cora, with a suspicious glance at the young man's
face; "and how flushed you are!  I had no idea that fixing a loose shingle was such hard work."

"Oh yes, it's tremendously hard work," said Ian, recovering himself; "you have to detach it
from the roof, you know, and it is wonderful the tenacity with which nails hold on sometimes;
and then there's the fitting of the new shingle to the--"

"Come, don't talk nonsense," said Cora; "you know that is not what kept you.  You have been
telling some secret to Elsie.  What was it?"

Instead of answering, Ian turned with a twinkle in his eyes, and asked abruptly:

"By the way--when does Louis Lambert return?"

It was now Cora's turn to flush.

"I don't know," she said, bending quickly over her work; "how should I know?  But you have
not answered my question.--Oh! look there!"

She pointed to the doorway, where a huge rat was seen seated, looking at them as if in solemn
surprise at the trifling nature of their conversation.

Not sorry to have a reason for escaping, Ian uttered a laughing shout, threw his cap at the
creature, missed, and rushed out of the room in chase of it.  Of course he did not catch it;
but, continuing his flight down-stairs, he jumped into the punt, pushed through the passage,
and out at the front door.  As he passed under the windows he looked up with a smile, and saw
Cora shaking her little fist at him.

"You have not improved in your shooting," she cried; "you missed the rat."

"Never mind," he replied, "Lambert will fetch his rifle and hunt for it; and, I say, Cora,
ask Elsie to explain how shingles are put on.  She knows all about it."

He kissed his hand as he turned the corner of the house, and rowed away.

A dark shadow falling over him at the moment caused him to turn round, and there, to his amazement,
stood one of his father's largest barns! It had been floated, like many other houses, from
its foundation, and, having been caught by a diverging current, had been stranded on the lawn
at the side of Mr Ravenshaw's house so as to completely shut out the view in that direction.

Intense amusement followed Ian's feeling of surprise.  His first impulse was to return and
let the inmates of Willow Creek know what had occurred; but be thinking himself that they would
find it out the first time they chanced to look from the windows on that side of the house,
and observing that the day was advancing, he changed his mind and rowed away in the direction
of the plains, chuckling heartily as he meditated on the very peculiar alterations which the
flood had effected on the properties of his father and Samuel Ravenshaw, to say nothing of
the probable result in regard to his own future.

A stiffish breeze sprang up soon after he left.  Being a fair wind, he set up a rag of sail
that fortunately chanced to be in the punt, and advanced swiftly on his voyage to the Little
Mountain.

On their way to the same place, at an earlier part of the day, Victor and Tony, with Petawanaquat
and Meekeye, touched at the mission station. Many of the people were still on the stage, but
Mrs Cockran, finding that the water had almost ceased to rise, and that the parsonage still
stood fast, returned to the garret of her old home.  Here she received Victor and the recovered
Tony with great delight.  It chanced to be about the period which Tony styled feeding-time,
so that, although Victor was anxious to reach his father as soon as possible, he agreed to
remain there for an hour or so.  While they were enjoying the hospitality of the garret, Petawanaquat
was entertained in a comparatively quiet corner of the stage, by a youth named Sinclair, a
Scotch half-breed, who had been a pupil in Ian Macdonald's school, and, latterly, an assistant.

Petawanaquat had made the acquaintance of young Sinclair on his first visit to Red River. 
They were kindred spirits.  Both were earnest men, intensely desirous of finding out truth--truth
in regard to everything that came under their notice, but especially in reference to God and
religion.  This grave, thoughtful disposition and earnest longing is by no means confined to
men of refinement and culture.  In all ranks and conditions among men, from the so-called savage
upwards, there have been found more or less profound thinkers, and honest logical reasoners,
who, but for the lack of training, might have become pillars in the world of intellect.

Both Sinclair and Petawanaquat were naturally quiet and modest men, but they were not credulous.
They did not absolutely disbelieve their opponents, or teachers; but, while giving them full
credit for honesty and sincerity--because themselves were honest and sincere--they nevertheless
demanded proof of every position advanced, and utterly refused to take anything on credit.
Bigoted men found them "obstinate" and "troublesome."  Capable reasoners found them "interesting."
Sinclair possessed a considerable amount of education, and spoke the Indian language fluently.
Petawanaquat, although densely ignorant, had an acute and logical mind.

To look at them as they sat there, spoon in hand, over a pan of burgout, one would not readily
have guessed the drift of their conversation.

"It almost broke my heart," said Sinclair, "when I heard you had stolen Mr Ravenshaw's boy,
and words cannot express my joy that you have repented and brought him back.  What induced
you to steal him?"

"My bad heart," replied the Indian.

"Was it then your good heart that made you bring him back?" asked Sinclair, with a keen glance
at his friend.

"No; it was the voice of the Great Spirit in Petawanaquat that made him do it.  The voice said,
`Forgive!  Return good for evil!'"

"Ah; you learned these words here, and have been pondering them."

"Petawanaquat heard them here; he did not learn them here," returned the red man quietly. 
"Listen!" he continued with a sudden glow of animation on his countenance, "My brother is young,
but he knows much, and is wise.  He will understand his friend.  In the mountains I pitched
my tent.  It was a lonely spot.  No trappers or Indians came there, but one day in winter a
paleface came.  He was a servant of the Great Spirit. He talked much.  I said little, but listened.
The paleface was very earnest.  He spoke much of Jesus.  He told the story of His love, His
sufferings, His death.  He spoke of little else.  When he was gone I asked Jesus to forgive
me.  He forgave.  Then I was glad, but I looked at Tonyquat and my spirit was troubled.  Then
it was that I heard the voice of the Great Spirit.  It did not fall on my ear: it fell upon
my heart like the rippling of a mountain stream.  It said, `Send the child back to his father.'
I obeyed the Voice, and I am here."

With sparkling eyes Sinclair stretched out his right hand, and, grasping that of the red man,
said in a deep voice--"My brother!"

Petawanaquat returned the grasp in silence.  Before either of them could resume the conversation
they were interrupted by Victor shouting from a window of the parsonage to fetch the canoe.

A few minutes later they were again on their way.

CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE.

BRINGS THINGS TO A POINT.

While Tony was being received at the old home, as already related, and Michel Rollin and Winklemann
were rescuing their mothers, and Ian Macdonald was busy transplanting his father's house, Mr
Samuel Ravenshaw was sitting disconsolate on the Little Mountain. 

The latest events, initially had the meaning of the children. "You have to honor thy name Make
for the helpless and persecuted you have to use up forever. Who is the Wiseli? " Do you remember?
"

But before the memories were discussed further, the old Trina put her head on Door in and shouted:
"The carpenter Andres would like to make like the Baroness, a report if he did not mind. "These
innocent words caused great confusion in society. The mother put the serving spoon with which she
would just meet his uncle, aside and said hurriedly: "Excuse me!" She quickly went out. Otto
jumped up so stormy, that he knocked over his chair and then crashed about it himself, as
he wanted to run away.

Seriously, I must go. "

"Where are you, Pussy?"

"To the carpenter Andres. Let go fast! Help me, Dad."

"If you tell me what you want from a carpenter Andres, so I let go of you."

"The sheep has only two legs and no tail, and only Andrew the carpenter he can . Help Just
let it go. "Well stormed away and the pussycats. The men looked at each other on, and Uncle
Max burst into laughter and exclaimed: "Who is Andrew the carpenter to to your whole family
seems to rip? "And certainly would break everything the House could lose that support. Andrew
the carpenter is counsel, comfort, healing and Help in distress.

Will my wife have a Hausgeraet from which not even she knows It should look like and what you
need it - Andrew the carpenter invents and manufactures at it.

Makes my son a very stupid prank that brings everything back Andrew
Schreiner in order. in two, throwing my daughter all Hausgeraet, Andrew
the carpenter glues it back together.

Andres said the carpenter is the supporting pillar of my house, and
if they would collapse, so we all went to pieces.

"

"Laugh it only! Only laughed her!" said the mother. "I know what I like the carpenter Andres did.
"

"And I, too," his father remarked with a smile.

"And I too!" claimed the Pussy heartily.

"And I too!" Otto said with a sigh, nor that of the ankle of his fall over the chair back hurt.

"Now
we all agree," said the mother, "Now the children can be at peace go to bed. "

This indicator towards the peace threatened the same incident.

But it did not help, the old Trina was already at the door and saw to it that the house rules
is not exceeded.

"Finally," the colonel said as a sigh of relief when he had a hard battle behind him. "See you,
Max, until my wife heard the carpenter Andres, then their children
and then her husband, if something uebrigbleibt.

"

"And you see, Max," the mother said, laughing, "if my husband still laughs so - he likes our Andres
good carpenter just as much as we all do. Confess only, Otto! I have just added Andres for you
too even handed over a task, he brought his yearly total and asks for your help. "

"That's true," said the colonel, "an orderly, diligent and hard, reliable man I do not know.
Which I would wife and child and belongings, and everything like
no trust other.

Then he said: "Now you have me all vorerzaehlt so much of your miracle man I really want to know where
he came from and how it looks. I have him as yet not seen here? "

"Oh, yes you have it known so well, Max," replied his sister. "You have to have remember the Andres,
with whom we went to school. Do you not because of how two Brothers together in the same class
were you? The older boy was already a right Good for Nothing. He was not stupid, but did nothing
and remained so stuck and then came to the much younger brother in a class together, where
you were, too.

You must certainly remember, he was said Joerg and had very black,
stiff hair.

He threw us where he could with anything, with immature apples and pears, and then with snowballs,
and shouted to us everywhere for 'aristocratic breeding' "

"Oh, that!" cried Uncle Max, laughing, "so, now I know everything at once. True," aristocrats
Brood he shouted after us constantly. I want to know how he got the word to mind. He was a
disgusting guy. Then I saw him once a much younger child very ruthless . Durchpruegeln But
which I helped, but he called me after at least twelve times: '! Aristocrats Brood Ah, now I
know at one time who was the other. That was the thin, small Andres, his brother, that's certainly
your Andres. And then this is also another with the violet, is not it, Marie? Oh, now I understand
the fat friend. "Uncle Max laughed anew on.

"What kind of violets? That I need to know," interrupted the Colonel.

"Oh, the story happened to me at once in mind when they would be yesterday," said the Uncle very
inspired by his memories. "The story I have you, Otto. You know perhaps your wife, that we here
in the village in those happy times of our childhood an old school teachers had, who found that
all the deficiencies of school children out of them- and all abilities and good qualities could
be hineingepruegelt into it. In that moment was my little sister, who had recently occurred
in the school and had not yet settled so well into the prevailing customs, suddenly up from her
seat in the front pew.

They hurried to the door. The teacher paused with his work and called to her: 'Where are you're running'
Marie turned around. The bright Tears ran down her cheeks, and she said, quite sincerely: 'I
want to go home and tell the dad. " "Wait, I will!" cried the teacher surprised and fell Andres
away from the little Marie going on. But the tears that my sister for the Andres had shed,
and their intervention against the tyrants were not forgotten.

She said, laughing: "Strawberries and violets bloom your view through to the year, Max, this is not quite
so.

He had lost his parents and was all alone, but as a hard worker. He had his eyes on the little
house with the neat little Garden then directed below the church could not buy it because the
seller immediately wanted to have money and Andres first had to earn something. But we knew him
and his work. My husband bought the small estate on his behalf, and he has a moment had to repent.
"

"No, certainly not," interrupted the colonel. "The Good Andres has full length of his property paid
off, and since then he brings me every year around this time a very
handsome sum, the Winning his years of work.

I put it to good. He is now a wealthy Man, and now his property shall
annually quite.

He may be still a little house large house, make the good Andres.

It's just a pity that he lives like a hermit and therefore enjoy
his well-earned do not.

"

"Has he no wife and no family? And where is the bitter Joerg finally got there?" "inquired Uncle
Max.

"No, he has no one," replied the nurse. "He lives completely alone, really like a hermit. He
has had a long, sad story I've seen and he has certainly taken all desire to look for each
woman. Joerg is the brother some years herumgestrolcht.

He has never worked, but hoped by terrible abuse to all those who were not rags like him, but still
at last to make his fortune. And when he did not succeed, even the good Andres last he had nothing
of his debts and could help out all evil and no longer wanted because
he is gone.

Where, You can never know right.

"But Otto," remarked the Colonel's Wife, "I told you this experience probably already six times."

"So?" calmly replied the Colonel. "I like the way it seems."

"So begin!" encouraged the uncle.

"You have to still can remember the child, Max," began his sister, "of which I spoken this
evening already have that lived in our neighborhood. It belonged to the pale, thin linen weavers,
we are always out Weberschifflein hearkened-tossing and when we stood in our garden. The child
looked soft and nice and had great, funny bright eyes and such beautiful
brown hair.

It was said Aloise. "

"In my life I have known no Aloise," put in Uncle Max. Do not you know remember how many times you
yourself said, if we were at the piano singing songs with Mom and so quiet TONE: 'Man must get
the Wisi, otherwise it is not'? "

Now the memory suddenly rose up in Uncle Max's memory. He laughed and said: "Oh, that's the
Wisi, yes, certainly, the Wisi I know. But I have never known how the Wisi whose real name
was. "

"Of course you have known this," said the sister, "because every time the mom said that it
was a barbarity to make the beautiful name Aloise a Wisi.

"

"I did well every time ueberhoert" said Uncle Max "But where is the Wisi gone?" And then, when
court was held about these crimes, it was all on a regular basis Andres the sitting. Not that
he was accused by someone, but he himself said the same softly, he thought he had crushed the windshield.
And he also believe he had at the plum tree shaken, and he got the penalty. We children always
knew very well how it was. But we let go that way. We were so used to it that it was so, and
then we all had Wisi the funny so much that we always begrudged it
to him when it got away unpunished.

And Apples and pears and nuts Wisi always had all the bags full, all came from Andres. What he
had only been able to obtain and which he put all the Wisi in the school bag. It was probably
always friendly to him, but he did the same with the others.

The Baroness looked smilingly on.

"When we got together in the religious education went as Wisi came regularly on Sunday evening
over here to us, and we sang together at the Piano hymns. It was now a big girl now and looked
pretty good.

His funny It had eyes, and although it never looked as strong as the Bauernmaedchen in the village,
it had but a blooming complexion and was nicer than any of them.

At that time the Andres still in town as an apprentice, but he always came home over Sunday.
Then came He also always with us to the parsonage, and preferably then he always spoke with
me about the last days of school. And then we kept coming soon to speak of the Wisi. The was
so in context, and finally we talked then only by him. Andres was the throughout the heart
and the mouth on these memories, and while all the world's longest Wisi never had so named
differently so he called it the unchangeable 'Wiseli'. And that was then so tenderly in their
own way out.

Then came a Sunday when the Wisi and I not yet eighteen years old.

Towards evening He came in today and looked quite rosy. You could get married because he is a
good Have lower employment in the factory, and so because they had
already fixed all that they could come together in the same twelve
days.

I was so surprised and so sad that I could not say a word. For a time the mother said nothing,
she looked very distressed from. And finally she asked the urgent if not everything still be reversed
or at least a good time can be postponed. There may be with his father To keep it still so young.

But
the thing had made me very sad.

I had a very definite feeling that the poor Wisi his happy days now behind him, and then I did
think other like the Andres sorry. "I could not but foresee that your friend is now even more
versatile the immutability had on him. But Wisi narrative, more of
him.

I really hope The funny Wisi has not become unhappy, it would do me harm. "

"I notice, Max," the nurse said, "that you are secretly Supports with
the Wisi and have no pity for the faithful Andres, which has yet abgedrueckt
almost heartbroken that the Wisi was lost for him.

"

"No, no," assured the uncle, "I can feel him how unhappy he was. But further, as we went with the
Wisi? It has not yet stained his merry eyes? "

"But, I think so," continued the nurse. "I have Wisi not often seen It had much to do. I think
the man was not exactly evil, but he had something raw, could he
be so rude and unfriendly, even with his small children.

Wisi had certainly little joy.

It had several nice children, but they were all very tender, it lost them back one by one.
Five had buried it must, it is only a single remained a fine, delicate little creature, a little
Wiseli. There is not much bigger older than our puss and yet is just over three years. Wisis health
had by all suffered so that you could clearly see what was coming. And now it's there, a rapid
depletion tightened up their lives. I'm afraid there is no hope. "

"No!" cried Uncle Max in terror. "This can not be true, is it really true? Can you not do anything
about, Marie?

We want to see it the same, perhaps even to help. "

"Oh no, is no longer here to help," the nurse said sadly. "There was not at all to help more. Then
he could no longer work.

He has not a very patient patient have been. Wisi it had now to cater more for everything else.
He died approximately Six months after the accident. Since then Wisi lives alone with the child.
"

"And from everything remained as nothing left but a small Wiseli What you do with it? But no,
that's sad, but will not have to come. The Wisi can still be healthy and everything will come,
as it could have been from the beginning. "

"No, no, it is too late," said the sister very determined. "The poor Wisi has its recklessness
had to suffer severely. But now it's getting late. "And almost frightened she got up, because
the conversation was about voruebergegangen the midnight hour.

For some time the colonel had become very still, he had in his armchair back and had fallen asleep.
Uncle Max was of not sleeping, because with the Tale of the poor were Wisi him has gone up
all childhood memories so vivid that he still wanted to discuss a lot of things and personalities.
But his sister was adamant, she held the lamp in his hand and urged to leave.

It was all for nothing.

The withdrawal was then carried out, and soon the house was on the Height very quiet in the
moonlight there.

And bottom of the mountain was one, as it should soon be still.

3. Chapter (even at home)

About the same time when the children went home after the Supreme, ran the small Wiseli down the
mountain with all their might. Because it knew that it was stayed away longer than the mother
was expecting and it did not otherwise have. But now his luck had been so great, that it had
forgotten for a moment the going home. Now it was the faster and would be almost ran into it in
a man who just stepped out of the door of the cottage, as it hineinstuermen
wanted.

He, however, went quietly out of the way and Wiseli jumped forward into the room in and to the
mother, on a small chair by the window and sat Wiseli surprise had lighted no light.

"Mother, you're evil, that I have stayed away so long?" she cried and hugged her. As it then with
his story was finished and the mother still sat there so still, it
was only one that they would otherwise not do so.

It asked in surprise: "But why did you not have the light, Mother?

"I'm so tired tonight, Wiseli," she said.

"I could not get up and light . Make The light to get in and bring me a drink of water, I have
such great Thirst. "

"I do not know," said the child, "it was on the kitchen table, see
how it sparkles."

The mother took the bottle in your hand and sniffed it. "Oh, how refreshing," she said and handed the
empty glass to the child. "Put it away, Wiseli, but not much. I feel I could drink up everything,
so I'm thirsty. Who has brought this bottle for me?

"No." Have you not heard? "

The mother was very quiet for a while, then said: "I've heard that someone quietly opened the
Kuechentuer. At first I thought you are praised, and - it is true, only afterwards I heard you
run in.. She said as if to himself: "Then it was the other, he knew, what I could do so well. "

"Now I find it a bit more, mother," cried suddenly Wiseli attracted
from all over.

"Now I certainly know who has ever made the big pot of honey in the kitchen, from which you eaten
so much to have and a few days, the apple pie.

You know, mother, you wanted thank the Trine leave when she brought
you some soup, and she said she knew of all of nothing.

That certainly has all the carpenter Andres made secretly in the kitchen. "

"I think so too," said his mother, wiped his eyes.

"There is nothing sad," said Wiseli a little shocked when she was
the mother always again about wiping his eyes saw.

"You have to again thank him, Wiseli, I can not. Let him say it again,
I thank him for all the best. He has meant so well with me. And as
she had desired, said it now devoutly to be little verse. It lay maeuschenstill
up to her, and It soon fell asleep too tightly. She opened the door
a little and asked, "What have you Wiseli? If the mother has become
ill? "You have no one else, and it must be someone take care of everything.
Run, I will wait until you come back. "For now it was him becoming
more aware that the mother would not wake. It was then and ran on,
but stop crying, it could not, because his heart was in the jammer
getting bigger.

Located on the beech grove, a mile from the church,
stood the house of his uncle, where Wiseli now just arrived and was
crying at the door. The aunt was standing in the kitchen and asked
short: "What about you?"

Wiseli muttered between sobs, the neighbor
had sent it, the uncle may quickly come to the mother.

The aunt looked
at the child, they might think it's bad with the mother. For less
sullen, as she spoke otherwise, she explained, "I will tell him, just
go back home, he is not there now. "

Since Wiseli returned to again
and ran back. The neighbor was standing in front of the door, inside
was they do not want to wait, it was too scary. But slipped into it
and sat Wiseli situated very close to the mother, as it had been sitting
next to her at night. Since it was sitting very still and wept, and
from time to time, it said in a low voice: "Mother!"

She gave no
answer. Since bent Wiseli to her and said, "Mother, you hear me, if
you're already in heaven and I hear you can not. "

Wiseli was sitting
still next to his mother and held her, as already past noon was. As
the uncle came into the little room, looked a little to it and then
called the Neighbor start. "You have to make the woman deal here,
you know, I think," he said, "so that everything is ready to be carried
off. Then you take the key itself, . That there will not come off
"Then he turned to Wiseli and said," Where are your clothes, Small?
Search them together and pack them into a bundle, then we go. "

Wiseli
startled. Rain go to the book and it should be at home since. It had
always been had a great fear of his aunt and waiting each time for
a while before the door, if it's uncle had something to report, for
fear, my aunt would scold him. "You have to fear you, kid" said the
uncle friendly. "Although there are more people in our house than
here, but that is all the more fun for you. "

Wiseli still put his
things together in a cloth and buttoned two crosswise end of it each
other. Then she tied his handkerchief around his head and stood ready.

"So,"
said the uncle, "now let's go." He walked to the door.

Suddenly Wiseli
sobbed aloud. "Then the Mother to be all alone." It was again executed
to run it and held it.

The uncle was a little amazed at there. He
did not quite know how he explain to the child should, as it was with
his mother if it is not understood by itself. Only once did there
back and said very softly: "God keep thee, mother!"

Then it moved
with his bundle on his arm from the small house where it had been
at home. Just as the two walked together across the country, came
down from above the Trine, a covered basket on her arm.  It
must be added, however, that the old people live on good terms, and that Mrs Winklemann frequently
visits Daddy, and smokes with him.  The offshoot on the left, built by Michel, is a stable,
and an excrescence beyond is a cow-house.  There, are fowls in front of the hut, and flour,
sugar, pork, and tea within, so it may be concluded that the families are now in comfort.

When the improvements just mentioned were completed, Michel Rollin, unable to settle down,
had arranged with Peegwish and Wildcat to go off on a fishing expedition.

Before starting he entered the hut, and said to Winklemann, who was filling his "moder's" pipe
for her--

"You vill be here ven I come back?  You vill not leave the ol' peepil?"

"No; I vill stope till you retoorns.  Be sure I vill take care of zee old vons.  But dere is
not much fear of anodor flood joost now."

"What says he, Liz?" asked old Daddy, with a hand to his ear.  "Speak oot."

"Oh, he's jist haverin' aboot the flood.  He says there's nae fear o' anither flood, an' I
think he's aboot right."

"I'm no sae sure o' that," returned Daddy, whose memory for the past was much stronger than
for current events.  "It's been said, on the best authority, that there was a seemilar flood
i' the year seeventeen hunner an' seeventy-sax, anither in seeventeen ninety, an' anither in
aughteen hunner an' nine."

"Hoots! haud yer gab.  What div ye ken aboot floods?"

Daddy, hearing nothing, and believing from the pleasant expression of Liz's countenance that
she appreciated his remarks, nodded to Mrs Winklemann cheerily, and smiled.

"Ha!" laughed her son; "you is von stranch being, old Liz--ver stranch."

Having finished the filling of his "moder's" pipe and lighted it for her, Herr Winklemann arose
and followed his friend Michel out of the hut.

Let us look at another picture.

It is a pair of cottages close to each other, and about a stone's cast from the farm at Willow
Creek.  The buildings are new, and much alike in form and size.  There are well-tilled fields
around, and fat cattle and a few sheep.  The insides of these mansions have not much to boast
of in the way of ornament, but there is enough to display the influence, the good taste, and
the refinement of woman.

Immediately after the abating of the waters Ian Macdonald and Louis Lambert set to work to
build these houses, and you may be sure they were not long about it, for the tyrannical old
father-in-law elect not only compelled them to take down the barn on the lawn before the weddings,
but also to build houses for their brides.

And after the knots were tied and the dance on the lawn at Willow Creek was over, and the happy
couples were fairly established in their own homes, they kept open house for a long time, and
interchanged innumerable visits between Bearclaw Cottage, (that was Ian's), and Hunter's Lodge,
(that was Lambert's), and the Ark on Ararat, (that was the house of Angus), and Willow Creek,
insomuch that Tony was heard one day to inform Miss Trim confidentially that he found it difficult
to tell where he lived, or which was his proper home--and Miss Trim confessed that she was
in much the same condition of mind.

"What an amazing time we have passed through!" said Miss Trim, referring to the flood, at one
of their social gatherings.

"Yes," said Victor hastily, for he knew that Miss Trim was on the point of delivering one of
her parenthetical and pointless orations, "it was indeed an amazing time!  Such boating on
the plains, and such camping out!  To say nothing of tumbling into the water and being half
drowned."

"By the way," asked Ian, "was not poor John Flett nearly drowned about the beginning of the flood?"

"Of course he was," said Mr Ravenshaw, "and if it had not been for your father he and his family
would have been lost altogether.  Is not that so, Angus?"

"Well, it iss droont he would have been in all probabeelity," said Angus, "for he was on the
wrong road when I met him, an' he couldn't find the right wan, whatever.  Shon Flett iss a
good man, but he iss also foolish.  You see, when the watter came on him so strong that his
hoose began to slup away, he took two of his oxen an' he tied them together wi' ropes, an'
put planks on their backs, which he also tied; ay! an' so he made a sort of livin' stage, on
which he sat his wife and four children; two of them wass poys and the other two wass girls,
whatever.  The frightened craters went about the best way they could, sometimes wadin' an'
sometimes sweemin', an' Shon, he wass leadin' them wi' a line roond their horns, an' he wass
wadin' an' sweemin' also.  I came across them wi' my post an' took them in.  That was just
pefore we saw the hoose on fire floatin' down the river."

"The house on fire!" exclaimed Cora; "I did not hear of that."

"No wonder," said Lambert.  "There have been so many strange incidents and hairbreadth escapes
during the flood that we won't likely hear about them all for many a day to come."

"But what about the house on fire?" asked Victor; "was any one in it?"

"No, it was only a house that had been left somewhat hastily by its owners, who must have forgot
to put out the fire or capsized something over it.  At all events the house was seen floating
down stream at night, and a splendid sight it was, burning furiously, with the flames glittering
in the water that swept it away."

"How sad!" said Elsie, whose mind dwelt on the evil rather than on the picturesque aspect of
the incident.

"I can't imagine what ever was the cause of the flood," remarked Mrs Ravenshaw.

"Well, my dear," said her husband, in a somewhat oracular tone, "no one can certainly tell
what caused it, but my own opinion is that it was caused by the unusual wetness of the fall.
You remember how it rained; well, when the lakes and rivers were as full as they could hold,
and the ground was soaking like a full sponge, the winter came on us suddenly and set all fast,
thus preventing the water getting away.  Then came the snow, also unusually heavy.  Then came
a late spring with a sudden burst of warm weather, and a south wind for several days in succession,
turning all this accumulation into water.  Red Lake, Otter-tail Lake, and Lake Travers overflowed,
as you know; the Red River ice burst up and jammed against the solid ice of Lake Winnipeg,
which stopped the current, and thus caused the overflow.  That's my notion about the flood.
Whether it's right or no, who can tell?"

"Your observations, sir, are fery goot, whatever," said Angus, taking an unusually long draw
at his pipe.

Turn we now to look upon one more picture.  It is on the shores of the great lake--Lake Winnipeg.
There among a tangled but picturesque mass of reeds and bushes, a canoe is resting on the reeds,
and, not far from it, a rude structure of boughs and bark has been set up.  It is open in front,
and before it burns a large fire, whose light, however, is paled by the effulgence of the glorious
sun as it dips into the lake.

Petawanaquat is there, seated with a book on his knee, and a dignified, yet slightly perplexed
expression on his face. I only fate had in any great Hot area to live, I wanted
every morning diet of grandeur suck her, as a lovely valley, patience and calmness. At the end
of the canyon, I got down and returned only a portion back. I have developed a deep feeling,
by which the Pleasure to a high degree for the observant mind is increased. One guesses in
the dark the birth and life of these strange creatures. It may be done as and when it would, so
have these masses, according to the seriousness and similarity of their parts, large and easily
assembled. As for revolution, they later moved, separated, split have, so these are but some
had tremors, and even the thought such a vast movement is a great feeling of eternal strength.
Time has also bound by the eternal laws, sometimes more, sometimes less cast on them.

They seem to be inside of a yellowish color; Change customer only
the weather and the air the surface in gray-blue, that only here and
there into strips and fresh in the first column Color is visible.

Slowly, the stone weathered and even rounded off the corners are softer
spots weggezehrt, so there's even been neatly swept caves and holes
which, when they with sharp edges and points come together, strangely
draw.

The vegetation claims their right, to take any advantage, Area and splitting spruce roots, moss
and herbs line the rocks. You feel deeply, here is not arbitrary, everything here seems a slowly
moving eternal law, and only the hand of man is the convenient way from the MAN by sneaking through
the strange places.

Geneva, 27 October.

The great mountain chain which is from Basel to Geneva, Switzerland
and France eliminated, as you known is called the law.

The maximum height of which extend over Lausanne to approximately about the role and Nyon.
  All things shall be put under Him. When that time comes all things
shall be good.  At present good and evil are mixed." From there, the path leads to some very colorful rocks,
again against the Arve.

If you think about it is gone, it ascends a hill, the crowds are
getting bigger here, Nature has started to put here with gentle hand
the monstrous.  In good time he
shall know all." The president was still there for some while and was not master of his thoughts.
Whom do they cheat? he thought with sorrow, self, or the people or God?

For a long time for the first time Clark was again quiet sleep.  Gradually the camp-fire lost its ruddy glow; the
evening breeze died slowly down; one by one the stars came out, and the soft curtain of night,
descending like a gentle spirit on the wilderness, hid the red man and his comrades from mortal
eyes, and wrapped them in profound repose.

THE END.

