What man's beginning or primitive form is in the womb after conception no one can know, because
it cannot be seen; moreover, it is made up of spiritual substance, which is not visible by
natural light. Now because there are some in the world who are eager to investigate even the
primitive form of man, which is seed from the father, from which conception is effected, and
because many of these have fallen into the error of thinking that man is in his fullness from
his first, which is the rudiment, and is afterwards perfected by growth, it has been disclosed
to me what that rudiment or first is in its form. It has been disclosed to me by angels, to
whom it was revealed by the Lord; and because they had made it a part of their wisdom, and
it is the joy of their wisdom to communicate to others what they know, permission having been
granted, they presented before my eyes in the light of heaven a type of man's initial form,
which was as follows: There appeared as it were a tiny image of a brain with a delicate delineation
of something like a face in front, with no appendage. For this, it was supposed that the Portuguese suffered from
  hunger and the people scattered into the mountains, looking eagerly
  to eat palm hearts and hunt tiger or some other wild animal. The
  others rushed off and they mutually killed. This kill had ended
  64.51.

  
  In the interlude, the field workers of San Juan and some kind and cruel
  captains came and they offered their assistance and returned
  afterward to gather their people. The
convex part, which was a type of the brain in least forms, was also divided into two beds,
as it were, just as the brain in its larger form is divided into hemispheres. It was told me
that the right bed was the receptacle of love, and the left the receptacle of wisdom; and that
by wonderful interweavings these were like consorts and partners. It was further shown in the
light of heaven, which fell brightly on it, that the structure of this little brain within,
as to position and movement, was in the order and form of heaven, and that its outer structure
was in direct opposition to that order and form. After these things were seen and pointed out,
the angels said that the two interior degrees, which were in the order and form of heaven,
were the receptacles of love and wisdom from the Lord; and that the exterior degree, which
was in direct opposition to the order and form of heaven, was the receptacle of hellish love
and insanity; for the reason that man, by hereditary corruption, is born into evils of every
kind, and these evils reside there in the outermosts; and that this corruption is not removed
unless the higher degrees are opened, which, as was said, are the receptacles of love and wisdom
from the Lord. And as love and wisdom are very man, for love and wisdom in their essence are
the Lord, and this primitive form of man is a receptacle, it follows that in that primitive
form there is a continual effort towards the human form, which also it gradually assumes.