The financiers looked on wondering, and their astonishment grew when they were conducted into
the rock-cut store-rooms beneath, where they saw metallic ingots glowing like gigantic opals
in the light which Dr. Syx turned on. They were piled in rows along the walls as high as a
man could reach. A very brief inspection sufficed to convince the visitors that Dr. Syx was
able to perform all that he promised. Although they had not penetrated the secret of his process
of reducing the ore, yet they had seen the metal flowing from the furnace, and the piles of
ingots proved conclusively that he had uttered no vain boast when he said he could give the
world a new coinage.

But President Boon, being himself a metallurgist, desired to inspect the mysterious ore a little
more closely. Possibly he was thinking that if another mine was destined to be discovered he
might as well be the discoverer as anybody. Dr. Syx attempted no concealment, but his smile
became more than usually scornful as he stopped a laden car and invited the visitors to help
themselves.

"I think," he said, "that I have struck the only lode of this ore in the Teton, or possibly
in this part of the world, but I don't know for certain. There may be plenty of it only waiting
to be found. That, however, doesn't trouble me. The great point is that nobody except myself
knows how to extract the metal."

Mr. Boon closely examined the chunk of rock which he had taken from the car. Then he pulled
a lens from his pocket, with a deprecatory glance at Dr. Syx.

"Oh, that's all right," said the latter, with a laugh, the first that these gentlemen had ever
heard from his lips, and it almost made them shudder; "put it to every test, examine it with
the microscope, with fire, with electricity, with the spectroscope--in every way you can think
of! I assure you it is worth your while!"

Again Dr. Syx uttered his freezing laugh, passing into the familiar smile, which had now become
an undisguised mock.

"Upon my word," said Mr. Boon, taking his eye from the lens, "I see no sign of any metal here!"

"Look at the green specks!" cried the doctor, snatching the specimen from the president's hand.
"That's it! That's artemisium! But it's of no use unless you can get it out and purify it,
which is my secret!"

For the third time Dr. Syx laughed, and his merriment affected the visitors so disagreeably
that they showed impatience to be gone. Immediately he changed his manner.

"Come into my office," he said, with a return to the graciousness which had characterized him
ever since the party started from New York.

When they were all seated, and the doctor had handed round a box of cigars, he resumed the
conversation in his most amiable manner.

"You see, gentlemen," he said, turning a piece of ore in his fingers, "artemisium is like aluminum.
It can only be obtained in the metallic form by a special process. While these greenish particles,
which you may perhaps mistake for chrysolite, or some similar unisilicate, really contain the
precious metal, they are not entirely composed of it. The process by which I separate out the
metallic element while the ore is passing through the furnace is, in truth, quite simple, and
its very simplicity guards my secret. Make your minds easy as to over-production. A man is
as likely to jump over the moon as to find me out."

"But," he continued, again changing his manner, "we have had business enough for one day; now
for a little recreation." While speaking the doctor pressed a button on his desk, and the room,
which was illuminated by electric lamps--for there were no windows in the building--suddenly
became dark, except part of one wall, where a broad area of light appeared. Dr. Syx's voice
had become very soothing when next he spoke: "I am fond of amusing myself with a peculiar form
of the magic-lantern, which I invented some years ago, and which I have never exhibited except
for the entertainment of my friends. The pictures will appear upon the wall, the apparatus
being concealed."

He had hardly ceased speaking when the illuminated space seemed to melt away, leaving a great
opening, through which the spectators looked as if into another world on the opposite side
of the wall. For a minute or two they could not clearly discern what was presented; then, gradually,
the flitting scenes and figures became more distinct until the lifelikeness of the spectacle
absorbed their whole attention.

Before them passed, in panoramic review, a sunny land, filled with brilliant-hued vegetation,
and dotted with villages and cities which were bright with light-colored buildings. People
appeared moving through the scenes, as in a cinematograph exhibition, but with infinitely more
semblance of reality. In fact, the pictures, blending one into another, seemed to be life itself.
Yet it was not an earth-like scene. The colors of the passing landscape were such as no man
in the room had ever beheld; and the people, tall, round-limbed, with florid complexion, golden
hair, and brilliant eyes and lips, were indescribably beautiful and graceful in all their movements.

From the land the view passed out to sea, and bright blue waves, edged with creaming foam,
ran swiftly under the spectator's eyes, and occasionally, driven before light winds, appeared
fleets of daintily shaped vessels, which reminded the beholder, by their flashing wings, of
the feigned "ship of pearl."

After the fairy ships and breezy sea views came a long, curving line of coast, brilliant with
coral sands, and indented by frequent bays, along whose enchanting shores lay pleasant towns,
the landscapes behind them splendid with groves, meadows, and streams.

Presently the shifting photographic tape, or whatever the mechanism may have been, appeared
to have settled upon a chosen scene, and there it rested. A broad champaign reached away to
distant sapphire mountains, while the foreground was occupied by a magnificent house, resembling
a large country villa, fronted with a garden, shaded by bowers and festoons of huge, brilliant
flowers. Birds of radiant plumage flitted among the trees and blossoms, and then appeared a
company of gayly attired people, including many young girls, who joined hands and danced in
a ring, apparently with shouts of laughter, while a group of musicians standing near thrummed
and blew upon curiously shaped instruments.

Suddenly the shadow of a dense cloud flitted across the scene; whereupon the brilliant birds
flew away with screams of terror which almost seemed to reach the ears of the onlookers through
the wall. An expression of horror came over the faces of the people. The children broke from
their merry circle and ran for protection to their elders. The utmost confusing and whelming
terror were evidenced for a moment--then the ground split asunder, and the house and the garden,
with all their living occupants were swallowed by an awful chasm which opened just where they
had stood. The great rent ran in a widening line across the sunlit landscape until it reached
the horizon, when the distant mountains crumbled, clouds poured in from all sides at once,
and billows of flame burst through them as they veiled the scene.

But in another instant the commotion was over, and the world whose curious spectacles had been
enacted as if on the other side of a window, seemed to retreat swiftly into space, until at
last, emerging from a fleecy cloud, it reappeared in the form of the full moon hanging in the
sky, but larger than is its wont, with its dry ocean-beds, its keen-spired peaks, its ragged
mountain ranges, its gaping chasms, its immense crater rings, and Tycho, the chief of them
all, shooting raylike streaks across the scarred face of the abandoned lunar globe.  The show
was ended, and Dr. Syx, turning on only a partial illumination in the room, rose slowly to
his feet, his tall form appearing strangely magnified in the gloom, and invited his bewildered
guests to accompany him to his house, outside the mill, where he said dinner awaited them.
As they emerged into daylight they acted like persons just aroused from an opiate dream.

V

WONDERS OF THE NEW METAL

Within a twelvemonth after the visit of President Boon and his fellow financiers to the mine
in the Grand Teton a railway had been constructed from Jackson's Hole, connecting with one
of the Pacific lines, and the distribution of the new metal was begun. All of Dr. Syx's terms
had been accepted. United States troops occupied a permanent encampment on the upper waters
of the Snake River, to afford protection, and as the consignments of precious ingots were hurried
east and west on guarded trains, the mints all over the world resumed their activity. Once
more a common monetary standard prevailed, and commerce revived as if touched by a magic wand.

Artemisium quickly won its way in popular favor. Its matchless beauty alone was enough. Not
only was it gladly accepted in the form of money, but its success was instantaneous in the
arts. Dr. Syx and the inspectors representing the various nations found it difficult to limit
the output to the agreed upon amount. The demand was incessant.

Goldsmiths and jewellers continually discovered new excellences in the wonderful metal. Its
properties of translucence and refraction enabled skilful artists to perform marvels. By suitable
management a chain of artemisium could be made to resemble a string of vari-colored gems, each
separate link having a tint of its own, while, as the wearer moved, delicate complementary
colors chased one another, in rapid undulation, from end to end.

A fresh charm was added by the new metal to the personal adornment of women, and an enhanced
splendor to the pageants of society. Gold in its palmiest days had never enjoyed such a vogue.
A crowded reception room or a dinner party where artemisium abounded possessed an indescribable
atmosphere of luxury and richness, refined in quality, yet captivating to every sense. Imaginative
persons went so far as to aver that the sight and presence of the metal exercised a strangely
soothing and dreamy power over the mind, like the influence of moonlight streaming through
the tree-tops on a still, balmy night.

The public curiosity in regard to the origin of artemisium was boundless. The various nations
published official bulletins in which the general facts--omitting, of course, such incidents
as the singular exhibition seen by the visiting financiers on the wall of Dr. Syx's office--were
detailed to gratify the universal desire for information.

President Boon not only submitted the specimens of ore-bearing rock which he had brought from
the mine to careful analysis, but also appealed to several of the greatest living chemists
and mineralogists to aid him; but they were all equally mystified. The green substance contained
in the ore, although differing slightly from ordinary chrysolite, answered all the known tests
of that mineral. It was remembered, however, that Dr. Syx had said that they would be likely
to mistake the substance for chrysolite, and the result of their experiments justified his
prediction. Evidently the doctor had gone a stone's-cast beyond the chemistry of the day, and,
just as evidently, he did not mean to reveal his discovery for the benefit of science, nor
for the benefit of any pockets except his own.

