The said reconnaissance I did not attend, knowing exactly what it would be. I mounted a hill,
to get warm and to make sure, and it was exactly what I knew it would be. Our guns fired at
the Boer guns till they were silent; and then the Boer dismounted men fired at our dismounted
men; then we came home. We had one wounded, but they say they discovered the Boer strength
on Bluebank, outside Range Post, to be 500 or 600. I doubt if it is as much; but, in any case,
I think two men and a boy could have found out all that three batteries and three regiments
did. With a little dash, they could have taken the Boer guns on Bluebank; but of dash there
was not even a little.

Nov. 15.--I wake at 12.25 this morning, apparently dreaming of shell-fire.

"Fool," says I to myself, and turn over, when--swish-h! pop-p!--by the piper, it is shell-fire!
Thud--thud--thud--ten or a dozen, I should say, counting the ones that woke me. What in the
name of gunpowder is it all about? But there is no rifle-fire that I can hear, and there are
no more shells now: I sleep again.

In the morning they asked the Director of Military Intelligence what the shelling was; he replied,
"What shelling?" Nobody knew what it was, and nobody knows yet. They had a pretty fable that
the Boers, in a false alarm, fired on each other: if they did, it was very lucky for them that
the shells all hit Ladysmith. My own notion is that they only did it to annoy--in which they
failed. They were reported in the morning, as usual, searching for bodies with white flags;
but I think that is their way of reconnoitring. Exhausted with this effort, the Boers--heigho!--did
nothing all day. Level downpour all the afternoon, and Ladysmith a lake of mud.

Nov. 16.--Five civilians and two natives hit by a shrapnel at the railway station; a railway
guard and a native died. Languid shelling during morning.

Nov. 17.--During morning, languid shelling. Afternoon, raining--Ladysmith wallowing deeper
than ever.

And that--heigh-h-ho!--makes a week of it. Relieve us, in Heaven's name, good countrymen, or
we die of dulness!

November 26, 1899.

I was going to give you another dose of the dull diary. But I haven't the heart. It would weary
you, and I cannot say how horribly it would weary me.

I am sick of it. Everybody is sick of it. They said the force which would open the line and
set us going against the enemy would begin to land at Durban on the 11th, and get into touch
with us by the 16th. Now it is the 26th; the force, they tell us, has landed, and is somewhere
on the line between Maritzburg and Estcourt; but of advance not a sign.

Buller, they tell us one day, is at Bloemfontein; next day he is coming round to Durban; the
next he is a prisoner in Pretoria.

The only thing certain is that, whatever is happening, we are out of it. We know nothing of
the outside; and of the inside there is nothing to know.

Weary, stale, flat, unprofitable, the whole thing. At first, to be besieged and bombarded was
a thrill; then it was a joke; now it is nothing but a weary, weary, weary bore. We do nothing
but eat and drink and sleep--just exist dismally. We have forgotten when the siege began; and
now we are beginning not to care when it ends.

For my part, I feel it will never end.

It will go on just as now, languid fighting, languid cessation, for ever and ever. We shall
drop off one by one, and listlessly die of old age.

And in the year 2099 the New Zealander antiquarian, digging among the buried cities of Natal,
will come upon the forgotten town of Ladysmith. And he will find a handful of Rip Van Winkle
Boers with white beards down to their knees, behind quaint, antique guns shelling a cactus-grown
ruin. Inside, sheltering in holes, he will find a few decrepit creatures, very, very old, the
children born during the bombardment. He will take these links with the past home to New Zealand.
But they will be afraid at the silence and security of peace. Having never known anything but
bombardment, they will die of terror without it.

So be it. I shall not be there to see. But I shall wrap these lines up in a Red Cross flag
and bury them among the ruins of Mulberry Grove, that, after the excavations, the unnumbered
readers of the 'Daily Mail' may in the enlightened year 2100 know what a siege and a bombardment
were like.

Sometimes I think the siege would be just as bad without the bombardment.

In some ways it would be even worse; for the bombardment is something to notice and talk of,
albeit languidly. But the siege is an unredeemed curse. Sieges are out of date. In the days
of Troy, to be besieged or besieger was the natural lot of man; to give ten years at a stretch
to it was all in a life's work; there was nothing else to do. In the days when a great victory
was gained one year, and a fast frigate arrived with the news the next, a man still had leisure
in his life for a year's siege now and again.

But to the man of 1899--or, by'r Lady, inclining to 1900--with five editions of the evening
papers every day, a siege is a thousand-fold a hardship. We make it a grievance nowadays if
we are a day behind the news--news that concerns us nothing.

And here are we with the enemy all round us, splashing melinite among us in most hours of the
day, and for the best part of a month we have not even had any definite news about the men
for whom we must wait to get out of it. We wait and wonder, first expectant, presently apathetic,
and feel ourselves grow old.

Furthermore, we are in prison. We know now what Dartmoor feels like. The practised vagabond
tires in a fortnight of a European capital; of Ladysmith he sickens in three hours.

Even when we could ride out ten or a dozen miles into the country, there was little that was
new, nothing that was interesting. Now we lie in the bottom of the saucer, and stare up at
the pitiless ring of hills that bark death. Always the same stiff, naked ridges, flat-capped
with our intrenchments--always, always the same. As morning hardens to the brutal clearness
of South African mid-day, they march in on you till Bulwan seems to tower over your very heads.
There it is close over you, shady, and of wide prospect; and if you try to go up you are a
dead man.

Beyond is the world--war and love. Clery marching on Colenso, and all that a man holds dear
in a little island under the north star. But you sit here to be idly shot at. You are of it,
but not in it--clean out of the world. To your world and to yourself you are every bit as good
as dead--except that dead men have no time to fill in.

I know now how a monk without a vocation feels. I know how a fly in a beer-bottle feels.

I know how it tastes, too.

And with it all there is the melinite and the shrapnel. To be sure they give us the only pin-prick
of interest to be had in Ladysmith. It is something novel to live in this town turned inside out.

Where people should be, the long, long day from dawn to daylight shows only a dead blank.

Where business should be, the sleepy shop-blinds droop. But where no business should be--along
the crumbling ruts that lead no whither--clatters waggon after waggon, with curling whip-lashes
and piles of bread and hay.

Where no people should be--in the clefts at the river-bank, in bald patches of veldt ringed
with rocks, in overgrown ditches--all these you find alive with men and beasts.

The place that a month ago was only fit to pitch empty meat-tins into is now priceless stable-room;
two squadrons of troop-horses pack flank to flank inside its shelter. A scrub-entangled hole,
which perhaps nobody save runaway Kaffirs ever set foot in before, is now the envied habitation
of the balloon. The most worthless rock-heap below a perpendicular slope is now the choicest
of town lots.

