After a weary journey the loyalist party emerged among the populous western villages of the
Iroquois confederacy. There, at Ontario, south of the lake of that name, was held a great assembly,
and fifteen hundred warriors listened to the messengers of the king. In reply the chiefs of
the assembled throng expressed their willingness to 'assist his Majesty's troops in their operations.'
Johnson and Brant then went on to Oswego, on the margin of the lake, where an even larger body
heard their plea. Johnson prepared for the redskins a typical repast, and 'invited them to
feast on a Bostonian.' The Indians avowed their willingness to fight for the king. Then, while
the summer days were long, a flotilla of canoes, in which were many of the most renowned chiefs
of the Six Nations, set out eastward for Montreal over the sparkling waters of Lake Ontario.
In one of the slender craft knelt Joseph Brant, paddle in hand, thoughtful and yet rejoicing.
He was but thirty-three years old, and yet, by shrewdness in council and by courage on the
field of battle, he already occupied a prominent place among the chiefs of the confederacy.
Moreover, great days were ahead. Soon the canoes entered the broad St Lawrence and were gliding
swiftly among its islets. With steady motion they followed its majestic course as it moved
towards the sea.

CHAPTER V

ACROSS THE SEA

Before many suns had set, this company of dusky warriors had brought their canoes to shore
near the swift rapids which run by Montreal. The news of their coming was received with enthusiasm
by the officers stationed at this place. Every friendly addition to the British ranks was of
value now that war had begun. Sir Guy Carleton, the governor of Canada, was especially delighted
that these bronzed stalwarts had made their appearance. He prized the abilities of the Indians
in border warfare, and their arrival now might be of importance, since the local Canadian militia
had not responded to the call to arms. The French seigneurs and clergy were favourable to the
king's cause, but the habitants on the whole were not interested in the war, and Carleton's
regular troops consisted of only eight hundred men of the Seventh and Twenty-Sixth regiments.

No time was lost by the governor in summoning the redskins to an interview. Chief Brant, it
appears, was the leading spokesman for the Indians on this occasion, and a sentence or two
of the speech made by Carleton has been preserved by Brant himself. 'I exhort you,' was Carleton's
earnest request of the Indians, 'to continue your adherence to the King, and not to break the
solemn agreement made by your forefathers, for your own welfare is intimately connected with
your continuing the allies of his Majesty.' In reply the Indians asserted once more their ancient
pledges. 'We acknowledged,' said Brant, 'that it would certainly be the best in the end for
our families and ourselves to remain under the King's protection, whatever difficulties we
might have to contend with.'

In order that he might render due service to the army, Brant was put under military discipline,
and was given a captain's commission in the king's forces. He was in Montreal when Ethan Allen,
a colonial adventurer, made an unauthorized attempt (Sept. 24, 1775) to surprise and capture
the city. Carleton had been apprised of Allen's project; the plan miscarried, and Allen, along
with other members of his band, was sent to England as a prisoner of war. Meanwhile General
Montgomery had been advancing from the south, and, in September, he laid siege to Fort St John,
the English stronghold on the Richelieu river. This post was stoutly defended by Major Preston
with a force of regulars until Fort Chambly, near by, fell into the enemy's hands, and further
resistance was useless. Whether Brant's services were employed in or about either of these
forts cannot be ascertained, but we know that he had left the neighbourhood and was on his
way to England before Montreal capitulated on November 17.

Brant's visit to Montreal had no doubt an important influence on his career. This was perhaps
the first time he had ever seen a sea-port. [Footnote: It is thought possible that he had gone
down the St Lawrence as far as Montreal with Sir William Johnson in 1760.] At this time Montreal
had some five or six thousand inhabitants and was a walled town of growing commercial importance.
It had several commodious religious houses, some large, well-built churches, and a number of
handsome residences. As Brant stood on the river's bank, he saw a medley of craft afloat in
the current: ships of the fur traders laden with peltry; transports coming and going with food
for the garrisons, or new men for the service; sloops-of-war, lying at anchor with their complement
of guns, grim and menacing.

All this gripped as with an iron hand the imaginative nature of the Mohawk chief. The spirit
of romance was aglow within him, and he had a wondering desire to see the lands that lay beyond
the ocean. He would sail upon the high seas; he would stand in the presence of the Great King.
How beautiful was this land called England! and how powerful were its army and navy! Doubtless
Guy Johnson and other officers at Montreal encouraged Brant to undertake the journey which
he fain would make. It may be that it was they who first showed him how such a journey was
possible. At any rate, before the ice had begun to lock the green waters of the St Lawrence,
in the year 1775, he had passed through the Gulf and was tossing on the billows of the deep
Atlantic. Towards the end of the year he arrived, along with Captain Tice, in the English metropolis.
London had altered greatly since the days of Queen Anne more than half a century before, when
his grandfather had been there. It had become a greater market for trade, and the common people
had been elbowing their way to the parts where only fine residences had once stood. Two kings
of the House of Hanover had in the meantime reigned and died, and now King George III, another
of that line, sat upon the throne.

On reaching London Chief Brant was escorted to a small hostel of not very imposing appearance
called 'The Swan with Two Necks.' It was intended that he should soon be taken to other lodgings
that would be more in keeping with his rank; but the innkeeper and others were so kind to him
that he was loth to leave, and could not be coaxed to other quarters during his whole stay
in London. In the streets he was accustomed to dress like the Europeans of the day, but on
state occasions he wore a gala costume, his head crowned with waving plumes and his body decked
with those fancy ornaments that pleased the proud Indian. On the burnished tomahawk that glistened
in his belt was traced the initial 'J,' followed by his Indian title, 'Thayendanegea.'

Brant appeared at court and had audience with the king, for whose person he felt a sacred reverence.
He loved freedom, but at the same time he always had a great respect for authority. A story
is told of the pointed answer he made to his old instructor, Dr Wheelock, who, thinking to
draw Brant over to the side of the colonists, or at least to keep him neutral, had written
him a long and earnest appeal. The Mohawk chief replied in a kindly fashion, referring to the
pleasant hours he had spent at the school. He remembered especially the prayers that were said
in the household, and one prayer in particular that had been repeated over and over again;
as they bent their heads in entreaty before the Maker of all things, the request had ever been
'that they might be able to live as good subjects, to fear God and honour the King.'

Not only did high officials in London treat Brant with consideration, but men of learning,
as well as of social position, vied with one another to make his visit interesting and pleasant.
Among those who entertained him was James Boswell, who knew all the gossip of London society
and was a man of rare talents. He took a peculiar liking to the bronzed chief of the Six Nations
and persuaded him to sit for his portrait. The Earl of Warwick also wished to have Brant's
picture, and the result was that he sat for George Romney, one of the most famous artists of
the day. This portrait was probably painted at the artist's house in Cavendish Square, and
we may accept it as a good likeness of Brant as he appeared at this time. With head erect,
the strong-knit figure of the chief stands at repose. The eyes are mild and wide-set and about
the lips a smile is playing. In the portrait we see, too, the resolute heart, the thoughtful
mind, and the restless energy that made Joseph Brant a ruler of the native races.

On being asked as to the help he might render to the English arms in the New World, Brant asserted
strongly that he and his people were loyal. He said that, as War Chief, he would lead three
thousand of his warriors into the struggle, and that they would fight manfully as subjects
of the king. He knew full well how desperate the contest was going to be, and wishing to have
some article on his body that would identify him in case of death, he bought from a London
goldsmith a ring, in which he had his full name engraved. This he wore through the vicissitudes
of many a long year.

Before the winter was over Brant was anxious to return to his tribes, for he knew that when
the hatchet was whirling the wigwam was more fitting for him that the palaces of London. Accordingly,
in the spring of 1776, he set out for his western home.

CHAPTER VI

BRANT MEETS HERKIMER

When the ship on which Brant was a passenger touched the shores of America, he was landed secretly
somewhere near New York city. He was now face to face with the difficulty of reaching his friends--a
task that called forth all his alertness. He was in a hostile country, a long way from the
forests of the Mohawk valley lying above Albany. But he was a wily redskin, too clever to be
caught, and after adroitly evading many dangers he eventually reached the border country and
crossed over safely into Canada.

In July 1776, several weeks before his arrival, the colonists had declared their independence.
The language of the Declaration of Independence was confident, but soon after it was uttered
the colonists suffered a series of defeats. Arnold was beaten by Carleton on Lake Champlain
and Washington was forced to retreat until he had crossed the Delaware. It has been said that
Brant took part in the Battle of the Cedars, where, on the north bank of the St Lawrence, Captain
Forster overpowered a body of four hundred Americans; but this occurred in May 1776, and since
Brant's ship did not arrive until July he could not have been one of the combatants in this
engagement. What Brant was doing during the greater part of the year following his arrival
in Canada has not been recorded. In the spring of 1777 we are able to pick up his trail again.
While the armies were preparing for another summer campaign, Brant returned once more to his
old haunts near the frontier of the colony of New York, taking up his position at a place called
Oquaga on the Susquehanna river, south of the Mohawk valley. This was a favourite resort of
the Indians, and Brant was well aware that from this point he could carry on to advantage a
guerrilla warfare against the rebels and their sympathizers.

