"No wonder she was cheated," she said, "out of sight of her own interest, when it was to wait
on pretty Miss Alice. All your honour's gold should never have tempted me, but that I knew
she was but a dead castaway, poor innocent, if she were taken away from my lady or me.--And
so this is the end on't!--up early, and down late--and this is all my thanks!--But your honour
had better take care what you do--she has the short cough yet sometimes--and should take physic,
spring and fall."

"Peace, chattering fool!" said her master, so soon as her failing breath gave him an opportunity
to strike in, "thinkest thou I knew not of this young gentleman's visits to the Black Fort,
and that, if they had displeased me, I would not have known how to stop them?"

"Did I know that your honour knew of his visits!" exclaimed Deborah, in a triumphant tone,--for,
like most of her condition, she never sought farther for her defence than a lie, however inconsistent
and improbable--"Did I know that your honour knew of it!--Why, how should I have permitted
his visits else? I wonder what your honour takes me for! Had I not been sure it was the thing
in this world that your honour most desired would I have presumed to lend it a hand forward?
I trust I know my duty better. Hear if I ever asked another youngster into the house, save
himself--for I knew your honour was wise, and quarrels cannot last for ever, and love begins
where hatred ends; and, to be sure, they love as if they were born one for the other--and then,
the estates of Moultrassie and Martindale suit each other like sheath and knife."

"Parrot of a woman, hold your tongue!" said Bridgenorth, his patience almost completely exhausted;
"or, if you will prate, let it be to your playfellows in the kitchen, and bid them get ready
some dinner presently, for Master Peveril is far from home."

"That I will, and with all my heart," said Deborah; "and if there are a pair of fatter fowls
in Man than shall clap their wings on the table presently, your honour shall call me goose
as well as parrot." She then left the apartment.

"It is to such a woman as that," said Bridgenorth, looking after her significantly, "that you
conceived me to have abandoned the charge of my only child! But enough of this subject--we
will walk abroad, if you will, while she is engaged in a province fitter for her understanding."

So saying, he left the house, accompanied by Julian Peveril, and they were soon walking side
by side, as if they had been old acquaintances.

It may have happened to many of our readers, as it has done to ourselves, to be thrown by accident
into society with some individual whose claims to what is called a serious character stand
considerably higher than our own, and with whom, therefore, we have conceived ourselves likely
to spend our time in a very stiff and constrained manner; while, on the other hand, our destined
companion may have apprehended some disgust from the supposed levity and thoughtless gaiety
of a disposition that when we, with that urbanity and good-humour which is our principal characteristic,
have accommodated ourself to our companion, by throwing as much seriousness into our conversation
as our habits will admit, he, on the other hand, moved by our liberal example, hath divested
his manners of part of their austerity; and our conversation has, in consequence, been of that
pleasant texture, betwixt the useful and agreeable, which best resembles "the fairy-web of
night and day," usually called in prose the twilight. It is probable both parties may, on such
occasions, have been the better for their encounter, even if it went no farther than to establish
for the time a community of feeling between men, who, separated more perhaps by temper than
by principle, are too apt to charge each other with profane frivolity on the one hand, or fanaticism
on the other.

It fared thus in Peveril's walk with Bridgenorth, and in the conversation which he held with him.

Carefully avoiding the subject on which he had already spoken, Major Bridgenorth turned his
conversation chiefly on foreign travel, and on the wonders he had seen in distant countries,
and which he appeared to have marked with a curious and observant eye. This discourse made
the time fly light away; for although the anecdotes and observations thus communicated were
all tinged with the serious and almost gloomy spirit of the narrator, they yet contained traits
of interest and of wonder, such as are usually interesting to a youthful ear, and were particularly
so to Julian, who had, in his disposition, some cast of the romantic and adventurous.

It appeared that Bridgenorth knew the south of France, and could tell many stories of the French
Huguenots, who already began to sustain those vexations which a few years afterwards were summed
up by the revocation of the Edict of Nantz. He had even been in Hungary, for he spoke as from
personal knowledge of the character of several of the heads of the great Protestant insurrection,
which at this time had taken place under the celebrated Tekeli; and laid down solid reasons
why they were entitled to make common cause with the Great Turk, rather than submit to the
Pope of Rome. He talked also of Savoy, where those of the reformed religion still suffered
a cruel persecution; and he mentioned with a swelling spirit, the protection which Oliver had
afforded to the oppressed Protestant Churches; "therein showing himself," he added, "more fit
to wield the supreme power, than those who, claiming it by right of inheritance, use it only
for their own vain and voluptuous pursuits."

"I did not expect," said Peveril modestly, "to have heard Oliver's panegyric from you, Master
Bridgenorth."

"I do not panegyrise him," answered Bridgenorth; "I speak but truth of that extraordinary man,
now being dead, whom, when alive, I feared not to withstand to his face. It is the fault of
the present unhappy King, if he make us look back with regret to the days when the nation was
respected abroad, and when devotion and sobriety were practised at home.--But I mean not to
vex your spirit by controversy. You have lived amongst those who find it more easy and more
pleasant to be the pensioners of France than her controllers--to spend the money which she
doles out to themselves, than to check the tyranny with which she oppresses our poor brethren
of the religion. When the scales shall fall from thine eyes, all this thou shalt see; and seeing,
shalt learn to detest and despise it."

By this time they had completed their walk, and were returned to the Black Fort, by a different
path from that which had led them up the valley. The exercise and the general tone of conversation
had removed, in some degree, the shyness and embarrassment which Peveril originally felt in
Bridgenorth's presence and which the tenor of his first remarks had rather increased than diminished.
Deborah's promised banquet was soon on the board; and in simplicity as well as neatness and
good order, answered the character she had claimed for it. In one respect alone, there seemed
some inconsistency, perhaps a little affectation. Most of the dishes were of silver, and the
plates were of the same metal; instead of the trenchers and pewter which Peveril had usually
seen employed on similar occasions at the Black Fort.

Presently, with the feeling of one who walks in a pleasant dream from which he fears to awake,
and whose delight is mingled with wonder and with uncertainty, Julian Peveril found himself
seated between Alice Bridgenorth and her father--the being he most loved on earth, and the
person whom he had ever considered as the great obstacle to their intercourse. The confusion
of his mind was such, that he could scarcely reply to the importunate civilities of Dame Deborah;
who, seated with them at table in her quality of governante, now dispensed the good things
which had been prepared under her own eye.

As for Alice she seemed to have found a resolution to play the mute; for she answered not,
excepting briefly, to the questions of Dame Debbitch; nay, even when her father, which happened
once or twice, attempted to bring her forward in the conversation, she made no further reply
than respect for him rendered absolutely necessary.

Upon Bridgenorth himself, then, devolved the task of entertaining the company; and contrary
to his ordinary habits, he did not seem to shrink from it. His discourse was not only easy,
but almost cheerful, though ever and anon crossed by some expressions indicative of natural
and habitual melancholy, or prophetic of future misfortune and woe. Flashes of enthusiasm,
too, shot along his conversation, gleaming like the sheet-lightening of an autumn eve, which
throws a strong, though momentary illumination, across the sober twilight, and all the surrounding
objects, which, touched by it, assume a wilder and more striking character. In general, however,
Bridgenorth's remarks were plain and sensible; and as he aimed at no graces of language, any
ornament which they received arose out of the interest with which they were impressed on his
hearers. For example, when Deborah, in the pride and vulgarity of her heart, called Julian's
attention to the plate from which they had been eating, Bridgenorth seemed to think an apology
necessary for such superfluous expense.

"It was a symptom," he said, "of approaching danger, when such men, as were not usually influenced
by the vanities of life employed much money in ornaments composed of the precious metals. It
was a sign that the merchant could not obtain a profit for the capital, which, for the sake
of security, he invested in this inert form. It was a proof that the noblemen or gentlemen
feared the rapacity of power, when they put their wealth into forms the most portable and the
most capable of being hidden; and it showed the uncertainty of credit, when a man of judgment
preferred the actual possession of a mass of a silver to the convenience of a goldsmith's or
a banker's receipt. While a shadow of liberty remained," he said, "domestic rights were last
invaded; and, therefore, men disposed upon their cupboards and tables the wealth which in these
places would remain longest, though not perhaps finally, sacred from the grasp of a tyrannical
government. But let there be a demand for capital to support a profitable commerce, and the
mass is at once consigned to the furnace, and, ceasing to be a vain and cumbrous ornament of
the banquet, becomes a potent and active agent for furthering the prosperity of the country."

"In war, too," said Peveril, "plate has been found a ready resource."

"But too much so," answered Bridgenorth. "In the late times, the plate of the nobles and gentry,
with that of the colleges, and the sale of the crown-jewels, enabled the King to make his unhappy
stand, which prevented matters returning to a state of peace and good order, until the sword
had attained an undue superiority both over King and Parliament."

He looked at Julian as he spoke, much as he who proves a horse offers some object suddenly
to his eyes, then watches to see if he starts or blenches from it. But Julian's thoughts were
too much bent on other topics to manifest any alarm. His answer referred to a previous part
of Bridgenorth's discourse, and was not returned till after a brief pause. "War, then," he
said, "war, the grand impoverisher, is also a creator of wealth which it wastes and devours?"

