"Well, there warn't nobody but Luke Shanders could 'a' done it, 'cause nobody had the glass
but him. I heard since that it was all a put-up job, that they had swore I kep' a roadside,
and they had sot the dep'ty onto me; but I don't like to think men kin be so mean, and I ain't
a-sayin' it now. If they knew what I've suffered for what they done to me, they couldn't help
but feel sorry for me if they're human."

He stopped and passed his hands wearily over his forehead. The jury sat still, their eyes riveted
on the speaker. Even the red-faced man was listening now.

For an instant there was a pause. Then the old man reached forward in his seat, his elbows
on his knees, his hands held out as if in appeal, and in a low, pleading tone addressed the
jury. Strange to say, neither the buzzard nor the Judge interrupted the unusual proceeding:

"Men, I hope you will let me go home now; won't you, please? I ain't never been 'customed all
my life to bein' shut up, and it comes purty hard, not bein' so young as I was. I ain't findin'
no fault, but it don't seem to me I ever done anythin' to deserve all that's come to me lately.
I got 'long best way I could over there"--and he pointed in the direction of the steel cages--"till
las' week, when Sam Jelliff come down to see his boy and told me the wife was took sick bad,
worse than she's been yet. She ain't used to bein' alone; you'd know that if you could see
her. The neighbors is purty good to her, I hear, but nobody don't understand her like me, she
and me bein' so long together--mos' fifty years now. You'll let me go home, won't you, men?
I git so tired, so tired; please let me go."

The buzzard was on his feet now, his arms sawing the air, his strident voice filling the courtroom.

He pleaded for the machine--for the safety of the community, for the majesty of the law. He
demanded instant conviction for this trickster, this Fagin among men, this hoary-headed old
scoundrel who had insulted the intelligence of twelve of the most upright men he had ever seen
in a jury-box, insulted them with a tale that even a child would laugh at. When at last he
folded his wings, hunched up his shoulders and sat down, and the echoes of his harsh voice
had died away, it seemed to me that I could hear vibrating through the room, as one hears the
murmur of a brook after a storm, the tender tones of the old man pleading as if for his life.

The jury had listened to the buzzard's harangue, with their eyes, not with their ears. Down
in their hearts there still rang the piteous words. The man-made machine was breaking down;
its mechanism out of "gear"; the law that governed it defective. The God-law, the law of mercy,
was being set in motion.

The voice of the Judge trembled a little as he delivered his charge, as if somehow a stray
tear had clogged the passage from his heart to his lips. In low, earnest tones that every man
strained his ear to catch, he reviewed the testimony of the witnesses, those I had not heard;
took up the uncontradicted statement of the Deputy Marshal as evidenced by the exhibits before
them; passed to the motive behind the alleged conspiracy; dwelt for a moment on the age and
long confinement of the accused, and ended with the remark that if they believed his story
to be an explanation of the facts, they must acquit him.

They never left their seats. Even the red-faced man voted out of turn in his eagerness. The
God-law had triumphed! The old man was free.

The throng in the court-room rose and made their way to the doors, the old man going first,
escorted by an officer to see him safely outside. The Judge disappeared through a door; the
clerk lifted the lid of his desk and stowed beneath it the greasy, ragged Bible, stained with
the lies of a thousand lips. The buzzard crammed his hat over his eyes, turned, and without
a word to anyone, stalked out of the room.

I mingled with the motley throng, my ears alert for any spoken opinions. I had seen the flying-belt
thrown from the machine and the stoppage of the engine. I wanted now to learn something of
the hot breath of the people who had set it in motion eleven months and ten days before.

"Reckon he'll cut a blue streak for home now," muttered a court-lounger, buttoning up his coat;
"that is, if he's got one. You'll never catch him sellin' any more moonshine."

"Been me, I'd soaked him," blurted out a corner-loafer. "If you can't convict one of these
clay-eaters when you've got him dead to rights, ain't no use havin' no justice."

"I thought Tom [the buzzard] would land him," said a stout, gray-whiskered lawyer who was gathering
up his papers. "First case Tom's lost this week. Goes pretty hard with him, you know, when
he loses a case."

"It would have been an outrage, sir, if he had won it," broke in a stranger. "The arrest of
an old man like that on such a charge, and his confinement for nearly a year in a hole like
that one across the street, is a disgrace. Something is rotten in the way the laws are administered
in the mountains of Kentucky, or outrages like this couldn't occur."

"He wouldn't thank you, sir, for interfering," remarked a bystander. "Being shut up isn't to
him what it is to you and me. He's been taken care of for a year, hasn't he? Warmed and fed,
and got his three meals a day. That's a blamed sight more than he gets at home. They're only
half-human, these mountaineers, anyway. Don't worry; he's all right."

"You've struck it first time," retorted the Deputy Marshal who had smelled the whiskey, found
the dime, and slipped the handcuffs on the old man's withered wrists. "Go slow, will you?"
and he faced the stranger. "We got to do our duty, ain't we? That's the law, and there ain't
no way gittin' round it. And if we make mistakes, what of it? We've got to make mistakes sometimes,
or we wouldn't catch half of 'em. The old skeesiks ought to be glad to git free. See?"

Suddenly there came to my mind the realization of the days that were to follow and all that
they would bring to him of shame. I thought of the cold glance of his neighbors, the frightened
stare of the children ready to run at the approach of the old jail-bird, the coarse familiarity
of the tavern lounger. Then the cruelty of it all rose before me. Who would recompense him
for the indignities he had suffered--the deadly chill of the steel clamps; the long days of
suspense; the bitterness of the first disagreement; the foul air of the inferno, made doubly
foul by close crowding of filthy bodies, inexpressibly horrible to one who had breathed all
his life the cool, pure air of the open with only the big clean trees for his comrades?

And if at last his neighbors should take pity upon him and drive out the men who had wrecked
his old age, and he should wander once more up the brook with his rod over his shoulder, the
faithful dog at his heels, and a line of the old song still alive in his heart, what about
those eleven months and ten days of which the man-law had robbed him?

O mighty machine! O benign, munificent law! Law of a people who boast of mercy and truth and
equal rights and justice to all. Law of a land with rivers of gold and mountains of silver,
the sum of its wealth astounding the world.

What's to be done about it?

Nothing.

Better drag a dozen helpless Samanthy Norths from their homes, their suckling babes in their
arms, and any number of gray-haired old men from their cabins, than waive one jot or tittle
of so just a code; and lose--the tax on whiskey.

CAP'N BOB OF THE SCREAMER

Captain Bob Brandt dropped in to-day, looking brown and ruddy, and filling my office with,
a breeze and freshness that seemed to have followed him all the way in from the sea.

"Just in, Captain?" I cried, springing to my feet, my fingers closing round his--no more welcome
visitor than Captain Bob ever pushes open my office door.

"Yes--Teutonic."

"Where did you pick her up--Fire Island?"

"No; 'bout hundred miles off Montauk."

Captain Bob has been a Sandy Hook pilot for some years back.

"How was the weather?" I had a chair ready for him now and was lifting the lid of my desk in
search of a box of cigars.

"Pretty dirty. Nasty swell on, and so thick you could hack holes in it. Come pretty nigh missin'
her"--and the Captain opened his big storm-coat, hooked his cloth cap with its ear-tabs on
one prong of the back of one office-chair, stretched his length in another, and, bending forward,
reached out his long, brawny arm for the cigar I was extending toward him.

I have described this sea-dog before--as a younger sea-dog--twenty years younger, in fact,
he was in my employ then--he and his sloop Screamer. Every big foundation stone that Caleb
set in Shark Ledge Light--the one off Keyport harbor--can tell you about them both.

In those light-house days this Captain Bob was "a tall, straight, blue-eyed young fellow of
twenty-two, with a face like an open book--one of those perfectly simple, absolutely fearless,
alert men found so often on the New England coast, with legs and arms of steel, body of hickory,
and hands of whalebone; cabin boy at twelve, common sailor at sixteen, first mate at twenty,
and full captain the year he voted."

He is precisely the same kind of man to-day, plus twenty years of experience. The figure is
still the figure of his youth, the hickory a little better seasoned, perhaps, and the steel
and whalebone a little harder, but they have lost none of their spring and vitality. The ratio
of promotion has also been kept up. That he should now rank as the most expert pilot on the
station was quite to be expected. He could have filled as well a commander's place on the bridge,
had he chosen to work along those lines.

And the modesty of the man!

Nothing that he has done, or can still do, has ever stretched his hat measure or swelled any
part of his thinking apparatus. The old pilot-cap is still number seven, and the sensible head
beneath it number seven, too. It could be number eight, or nine, or even ten, if it had expanded
in proportion to the heroic quality of many of his deeds. During the light-house days, for
instance, when some sudden, shift of wind would churn the long rollers into bobbles and then
into frenzied seas that smothered the Ledge in white suds, if a life-boat was to be launched
in the boiling surf, the last man to jump aboard, after a mighty push with his long hindmost
leg, was sure to be this same bundle of whalebone and hickory. And should this boat, a few
minutes later, go whirling along in the "Race," bottom side up, with every worker safe astride
her keel, principally because of Captain Bob's coolness and skill in hauling them out of the
water, again the last man to crawl beside the rescued crew would be this same long-legged,
long armed skipper.

Or should a guy-rope snap with a sound like a pistol-shot, and a great stone swung to a boom
and weighing tons should begin running amuck through piles of cement, machinery, and men, and
some one of the working gang, seeing the danger, should, with the quickness and sureness of
a mountain-goat, spring straight for the stone, clutching the end of the guy and bounding off
again, twisting the bight round some improvised snubbing-post thus checking its mad career,
you would not have had to ask his name twice.

"Cap'n Bob stopped it, sir," was sure to have been the proffered reply.

So, too, in his present occupation of pilot. It was only a few years ago that I stood on the
deck of an incoming steamer, straining my eyes across a heaving sea, the horizon lost in the
dull haze of countless froth-caps; we had slowed for a pilot, so the word came down the deck.
Suddenly, against the murky sky-line, with mainsail double-reefed and jib close-hauled, loomed
a light craft plunging bows under at every lurch. Then a chip the size of your hand broke away
from the frail vessel, and a big wave lying around for such prey, sprang upon it with wide-open
mouth. The tiny bit dodged and slipped out of sight into a mighty ravine, then mounted high
in air, upborne in the teeth of another great monster, and again was lost to view. Soon the
chip became a bit of driftwood manned by two toy men working two toy oars like mad and bearing
at one end a yellow dot.

Then the first officer walked down the deck to where I stood, followed by a huddle of seamen
who began unrolling a rope ladder.

"You're right," I heard an officer answer a passenger. "It's no fit weather to take a pilot.
Captain wouldn't have stopped for any other boat but No. 11. But those fellows out there don't
know what weather is."

The bit of driftwood now developed into a yawl. The yellow dot broadened and lengthened to
the semblance of a man standing erect and unbuttoning his oil-skins as he looked straight at
the steamer rolling port-holes under, the rope ladder flopping against her side. Here I am going
to narrate a few dialogue between a person called Sanin and Maria Nikolaevna. When Maria Nikolaevna
encouraged Sanin to describe her about his Estate he began to describe it for her. He gave her
all the details about the estate like how many acres it contained,
where is it situated and what are its agricultural advantages,and
the amount of profit it could make out and all.

He even told her a detailed account of the house also.

Maria very attentively heard all that was told by him.

After a while Sanin felt very awkward of his lecture and he stopped and waited for her reply.
After a moments thought Maria replied him that she is willing to purchase the estate but she need
just two days before the deal. She also inquired him if he is bothered much about the sepearation
from his bethrothed one for just two days.She even offered him a loan of five or six thousand
francs at once if he wish so. Sanin got up and thanked her for her kindheartedness towards
him even though he is a person unknown to her before. He agreed to wait for two days even
if it was hard for him to part with his betrothed. Again Maria asked him whether it was true
that he was a close friend of her husband lppolit Sidorovitch? He replied her that they were educated
in the same school.

Then she inquired him whether he was the same then also. And she began to laugh till her face
became red after that she went towards him and held out her hand for him.  Sanin bowed over
it and went out.She reminded him to come early next morning and she dropped down to an easy
chair. She looked enchanting and  beautiful. Sanin sat down to the table and began to write
a letter to "Gemma". He narrated her all that happened on that day and described the Polozovs and
ended with the expectation of meeting her after three days.

He posted the letter early in the morning and he went for a walk
in the garden of the Kurhaus where music was played.He spent sometime
there listening the music and drank a coffee and went and sat on a
bench and began to day dream.At this time Maria Nikolavena came to
him aroused him with the handle of parasol.

She looked so fresh in the morning. She told him she sent for him and he had been left before
that. She asked him to join her for a walk as she have to walk for a whole hour.Sanin agreed
to walk with her even though he already had a walk. Maria asked for his arm and she also told
him he need not have to be afraid as his betrothed is not there and she cannot see this.
 Can't sink 'er any more'n an empty five-gallon ker'sene can
with the cork in. We'll lay 'round here till mornin' and then set a signal. Something'll come
along pretty soon.' Sure 'nough, 'long come a coaler bound for Charleston. She see us a-wallowin'
in the trough and our mast thrashin' for all it was worth.

"'What d'ye want?' the skipper says, when he got within hail.

"'Some sail-needles and a ball o' twine,' I hollered back; 'we got everything else.' You should
just a-heard him cuss--" and one of Captain Bob's laughs rang through the room. "Them's two
things I'd forgot--didn't think o' them in fact till the mainsheet give 'way.

"Well, he chucked 'em aboard with another cuss. I hadn't no money to pay no salvage. All we
wanted was them needles and a little elbow-grease and gumption. So we started in, and 'fore
night, she still a-thrashin', I'd fixed up the sails, patched the eyelets with a pair o' boot-legs,
and was off again."

"What were you doing off Hatteras, Captain Bob?" I asked. I was leading him on, professing
ignorance of minor details, so that I could again enjoy the delight of hearing him tell it.

"Oh, that was another one o' them crazy jobs I used to take when I didn't know no better. Why,
I guess you remember 'bout that wreckin' job off Hamilton, Bermuda?"

He was settled in his chair now, his legs crossed, his head down between his shoulders.

"You see, after I quit work on the 'ledge,' I was put to 't for a job, and there come along
a feller by the name of Lamson--the agent of an insurance company, who wanted me to go to Bermuda
and git up some forty-two pieces o' white I-talian marble that had been wrecked three years
before off the harbor of Hamilton. They ran from three to twenty-one tons each, he said. So
off I started with the Screamer. He didn't say, though, that the wreck lay on a coral reef
eight miles from land, or I'd stayed to home in New Bedford.

"When I got to where the wreck lay you couldn't see a thing 'bove water. So I got into an old
divin' dress we had aboard--one we used on the Ledge--oiled up the pump and went down to look
her over, and by Jimmy Criminy, not a scrap o' that wreck was left 'cept the rusty iron work
and that part o' the bottom plankin' of the vessel that lay under the stones! Everything else
was eaten up with the worms! Funniest-lookin' place you ever see. The water was just as clear
as air, and I could see every one o' them stone plain as daylight--looked like so many big
lumps o' white sugar scattered 'round--and they were big! One of 'em weighed twenty-one tons,
and none on 'em weighed less'n five. Of course I knew how big they were 'fore I started, and
I'd fitted up the Screamer special to h'ist 'em, but I didn't know I'd have to handle 'em twice;
once from where they laid on that coral reef in twenty-eight feet o' water and then unload
'em on the Navy Yard dock, above Hamilton, and then pick 'em up agin, load 'em 'board the Screamer,
and unload 'em once more 'board a Boston brig they'd sent down for 'em--one o' them high-waisted
things 'bout sixteen feet from the water-line to the rail. That was the wust part of it."

Captain Bob stopped, felt in his pocket for a match, found it empty, rose from his chair, picked
one from a match-safe on my desk, lighted his cigar, and resumed his seat again. I have found
it wisest to let him have his own way in times like these. If I interrupt the flow of his talk
it may stop for the day, and I lose the best part of the enjoyment of having him with me.

"Pretty decent chaps, them Englishmen"--puff-puff--the volume of smoke was all right once more.
"One Monday morning I ran out of the Navy Yard dock within sight of the wreck. I had been layin'
up over Sunday to get out of the way of a norther, when I luffed a little too soon, and bang
went my bowsprit and scraped off about three feet of red paint from the end of the dock. One
of the watchmen was on the string-piece, and saw the whole thing. 'Come ashore,' he says, 'and
go and see the Admiral; you can't scrape no paint off this dock with my permission.'

"Well, I waited four hours for his nibs. When he come to his office quarters he was 'bout up
to my arms, red as a can-buoy, and white hair stickin' up straight as a shoe-brush on his head.
He looked cross enough to bite a tenpenny nail in two.

"'Ran into the dock, did ye--ran into Her Majesty's dock, and ye had room enough to turn a
fleet in! Do you think we paint these docks for the fun of havin' you lubbers scrape it off?
You'll pay for paintin' it over, sir--that's what you'll do, or I'll libel your boat, and send
a file of marines down and tie her up,' and away he went up the dock to his office again.

"'Gosh!' I said to myself. 'Guess I'm in a fix,' The boys stood around and heard every word,
and I tell ye it warn't no joke. As to money, there warn't a ten-dollar bill in the crew. I'd
spent every cent I could rake and scrape to fit the Screamer out, and the boys were workin'
on shares, and nobody was to get any money until the last stone--that big twenty-one-ton feller--was
'board the brig. Then I could go to the agents in Hamilton and draw two-thirds of my contract.
That twenty-one-ton chunk, I forgot to tell ye, I had picked up the day before, and it was
then aboard the Screamer, and we was on our way down to Hamilton, where the brig lay, when
her nose scraped off the Admiral's paint.

"It did look kind o' nasty for us, and no mistake. One day more, and we'd 'a' been through
and had our money.

"'Go up and see him,' said the watchman. 'He gits cool sometimes as sudden as he gits hot.'
So Bill Nevins, my engineer, who was workin' the h'ister, and I went up. The old feller was
sittin' on the piazza in a big rattan chair.

"'Come aboard,' he hollered, soon's he see Bill and me a-standin' in the garden-path with our
hats off, lookin' like two jailbirds about to be sentenced. Well, we got up on the porch, and
he looked us all over, and said:

"'Have you got that money with you?' 'No,' I said, 'I haven't,' and I ups and tells him just
how we was fixed, and how we had worked, and how short we was of grub and clothes and money,
and then I said, 'an' now I come to tell ye that I hit the dock fair and square, and it was
all my fault, and that I'll pay whatever you say is right when I put this stone 'board and
get my pay.'

"He looked me all over--I tell you I was pretty ragged; nothin' but a shirt and pants on, and
they was almighty tore up, especially where most everybody wants to be covered--and Bill was
no better. We'd 'bout used up our clo'es so that sail-needles nor nothin' else wouldn't a-done
us no good, and we had no time nor no spare cash to go ashore and get others.

"While I was a-talkin', the old feller's eyes was a-borin' into mine--then he roared out, 'No,
sir; you won't!--you won't pay one d--d shillin', sir. You'll go back to your work, and if
there's anything you want in the way of grub or supplies send here for it and you shall have
it. Good-day.' I tell ye he was a rum one."

"Was that the last time you saw him?" I asked.

"Not much. 3rd, Appearing amid Him and his people, it interfered with the leadership of Christ saying,
“I will place the stars.” In respect to the spiritual independence of the church, he was
more decided. He considered this as a very important question: he stated at a public meeting
that there were chances for the disturbance of the Church of Scotland, if it were deprived of. –1st,
the degradation of those who remained behind, the separation of the aristocracy, the punishment
for the ungodly, and the sin of the nation was to be regretedin some respects which was caused
because of the sufferings of God’s faithful servants. 2nd, that Christ’s kingly offices
would be better known, the truth would be spread into deserted parishes,
and the faithful ministers would be refined, and for these reasons
it was to be saluted.

I find him writing, on March 7th of the following year, the cause of the church was finally to be
pleaded at the bar of the House of Commons: “It is one of an eventful nights in the British Parliament!
Once more King Jesus stands at an earthly court, and they do not recognize Him!
After the Convocation a co-presbyter who returned with him to Dundee related an interesting
anecdote to him. What it might be their duty to do in the event of interruption, and where they
might be scattered, were the matters which the co-presbyter, Mr.
Stewart, was discussing with him.

Mr. Stewart said, if it was needed, he could preach Gaelic, and might
meet the Highlanders in Canada.

Mr. M'Cheyne said, that he thinks of going to the many thousand convicts
whose souls are not cared for and who are transported beyond seas.

After this date there aren’t many records of his public work.

December 25 was almost the last date noted in his diary. “Four elders, and also a fifth were ordained
to be a blessing in this place this day, when I am gone. Awakened
very early before dawn, had two hours alone with God.

Preached with much comfort on I Tim. 5:17, let the elders take over.

It was altogether a solemn scene.” He records his last cases of awakening thus, which is
dated January 6, 1843: I trust this is news of an awakened soul finding
true rest

.
 He's afraid you'll drop it and smash his deck in. Since
I've seen it, and what you propose to lift it with, I've told him there's no danger, for you'll
never get it off the deck. We are both officers of the Engineering Corps, and it is our business
to know about such things.'

"'What makes you think the Screamer won't lift it?' I asked.

"'Well,' says the Colonel, looking aloft, 'her boom ain't big enough, and that Manila rope
is too light. I should think it wasn't over three and three-quarter-inch rope. We all know
fifteen tons is enough weight for that size rope, even with a fourfold purchase, and we understand
you say this stone weighs twenty-one.'

"'I'm sorry, gentlemen,' I said, 'and if you are worried about it you'd better go 'board the
brig, for I'm about ready to pick the stone up and land her.'

"Well, the Major said he guessed he would, if I was determined to pull the mast out of my sloop,
but the Colonel said he'd stay by and see it out.

"Just then Bill Nevins stuck his head out of the fo'c's'le. He was blacker than I was; all
smeared with grease and stripped to his waist. It was hot enough anywhere, but it was sizzlin'
down where he was.

"'All ready, Cap'n,' he says. 'She's got every pound she can carry.'

"I looked everything over--saw the butt of the boom was playin' free in the wooden socket,
chucked in a lot of tallow so it could move easy, give an extra twist to the end of the guy,
and hollered to Bill to go ahead. She went chuckety-chuck, chuckety-chuck for half a dozen
turns; then she slowed down soon as she struck the full weight, and began to pant like an old
horse climbin' a hill. All this time the Colonel was callin' out from where he stood near the
tiller: 'She'll never lift it, Captain--she'll never lift it.'

"Next come a scrapin' 'long the deck, and the big stone swung clear with a foot o' daylight
'tween it and the deck. Then up she went, crawlin' slowly inch by inch, till she reached the
height of the brig's rail.

"Now come the wust part. I knew that when I gave orders to slack away the guy-rope so as to
swing the stone aboard the brig, the Screamer would list over and dip her rail in the water.
So I made a jump for the rope ladder and shinned up the brig's side so as to take a hand in
landin' the stone properly on the brig's deck so as to save her beams and break the jar when
I lowered the stone down. I had one eye now on the stone and the other on the water, which
was curling over the Screamer's rail and makin' for the fo'c's'le hatch. Should the water pour
down this hatch, out would go my fires and maybe up would come her b'iler.

"'Ease away on that guy and lower away easy,' I hollered to Bill. The stone dropped to within
two feet of the brig's deck and swung back and for'ards. Then I heard Bill yell. I was expectin'
it.

"'Water's comin' in!'

"I leaned over the brig's rail and could see the slop of the sea combin' over the Screamer's
fo'c's'le hatch. Bill's fires would be out the next minute. There was just two feet now 'tween
the stone and the deck where I stood--too much to drop; but there was nothing else to do, and
I hollered:

"'All gone.'

"Down she come with a run, struck the big timbers on the deck, and by Jiminy! ye could a-heard
that old brig groan from stem to stern.

"I jumped on top of the stone and threw off the shackles, and the Screamer came up on an even
keel as easy as a duck ridin' the water.

"You just oughter seen the Colonel when the old boat righted herself, and he had climbed up
and stood 'longside the Major a-talkin' it over.

"Pretty soon he came up to where I was a-gettin' the tackle ready to lower the stone in the
hold, and he says:

"'Well, you made your word good, Cap'n, but I want to tell you that nobody but an American
could a-done it. It would cost me my commission if I should try to do what you have done.'

"'Well, gentlemen,' I says, 'what was wrong about it? What's the matter with the Screamer's rig?'

"'Well, the size of the rope for one thing,' says the Colonel, 'and the boom.'

"'Well, p'haps you ain't looked it over,' I says, and I began unravelling an end that stuck
out near the shackle. 'If you'll look close here'--and I held the end of the rope up--'you'll
see that every stran' of that rope is made of the best Manila yarn, and laid as smooth as silk.
I stood over that rope myself when it was put together. Old Sam Hanson of New Bedford laid
up that rope, and there ain't no better nowhere. I knew what it had to do, and I warn't goin'
to take no chances of its not doin' it right. As to that boom, I want to tell ye that I picked
that boom out o' about two hundred sticks in Tom Carlin's shipyard, in Stonington, and had
it scraped and ironed just to please me. There ain't a rotten knot in it from butt to finish,
and mighty few of any other kind. That stick's growed right--that's what's the matter with
it; and it bellies out in the middle, just where it ought to be thickest.'

"Well, they didn't say nothin' for a while, 'cept to walk round the stone once or twice and
slap it with their hands, as if they wanted to make sure it was all there. My men were all
over it now, and we was gettin' things in shape to finish up. I tell ye the boys were mighty
glad, and so was I. It had been a long pull of six months' work, and we were out of most everything,
and as soon as the big stone was down in the brig's hold, and warped back and stowed with the
others--and that wouldn't take but a day or two more--we would clean up, get our money, and
light out for home.

"All this time the Colonel and the Major were buzzin' each other off by the other rail. Pretty
soon they both come over to where I stood, and the Colonel reached out his hand.

"'Cap'n Brandt,' he says--and he had a look in his face as if he meant it--and he did, every
word of it--'it would give Major Severn and myself great pleasure if you would dine with us
to-night at the Canteen. The Admiral is coming, and some brother officers who would be pleased
to know you.'

"Well, I was struck all of a heap for a minute, knowing what kind of clo'es I had to go in,
and so I says:

"'Well, gentlemen, that's very nice of you, and I see you mean it, and if I had anything fittin'
to wear there's nothin' I would like better; but ye see how I'm fixed,' and I lifted my arms
so he could see a few holes that he might a-missed before, and I motioned to some other parts
of my get-up that needed repairs.

"'That don't make no difference, Cap'n, what kind of clo'es you come in. We dine at eight o'clock.'

"Of course I knew I couldn't go, and I didn't want 'em to think I intended to go when I didn't,
so I says, rather positive-like:

"'Very much obliged, gentlemen, but I guess I'll have to get you to count me out this time.'
I knowed I warn't fittin' to sit at anybody's table, especially if that old Admiral was comin'.

"The Colonel see I was in earnest, and he stepped up, quick-like, and laid his hand on my shoulder.

"'Captain Brandt,' he says, 'we ain't worryin' 'bout your clo'es, and don't you worry. You
can come in your shirt, you can come in your socks, or you can come without one damned rag--only
come!'"

The Captain stopped, shook the ashes from his cigar, slowly raised himself to his feet, and
reached for his hat.

"Did you go, Captain?" I asked.

The Captain looked at me for a moment with one of those quizzical glances which so often light
up his face when something amuses him, and said, as he blew a cloud of smoke to the ceiling:

"Well, I didn't forget my manners. When it got dark--dark, mind ye--I went up and sat on the
piazza and had a smoke with 'em--Admiral and all. But I didn't go to dinner--not in them pants."

A PROCESSION OF UMBRELLAS

I

This all happened on the banks of the Seine, above St. Cloud--above Suresne, in fact, or rather
its bridge--the new one that has pieced out the old one with the quaint stone arches that we love.

A silver-gray haze, a pure French gray, hung over the river, softening the sky-line of the
near-by hills, and making ghosts of a row of gendarme poplars guarding the opposite bank.

On my side of the stream wandered a path close to the water's edge--so close that I could fill
my water-cups without leaving my sketching-stool. Over this path, striped with shadows, big
trees towered, their gnarled branches interlaced above my head. On my right, rising out of
a green sward cleared of all underbrush, towered other trees, their black trunks sharp-cut
against the haze. In the distance, side by side with the path, wound the river, still asleep,
save where it flashed into waves of silver laughter at the touch of some frolicsome puff of
wind. Elsewhere, although the sun was now hours high, it dozed away, nestling under the overhanging
branches making their morning toilet in its depths. But for these long, straight flashes of
silver light glinting between the tree-trunks, one could not tell where the haze ended and
the river began.

As I worked on, my white umbrella tilted at the exact angle so that my palette, hand, and canvas
would be hidden from the inquisitive sun, a group of figures emerged from a clump of low trees,
and made their way across the green sward--the man in an ivory-black coat, evidently a priest,
even at that distance; the woman in a burnt-umber dress with a dot of Chinese white for a head--probably
a cap; and the third, a girl of six or eight in a brown madder dress and yellow-ochre hat.

An out-door painter, while at work, tumbles everything that crosses his path or comes within
range of his vision into the crucible of his palette. The most majestic of mountains and the
softest of summer clouds are to him but flat washes of cobalt, and the loveliest of dimples
on the fairest of cheeks but a shadow-tone, and a high light made real by pats of indigo and
vermilion. 

We will consider drama starting in Shakespeare's era, at the end of the reign of Queen Elizabeth
and during the reign of James I. There were, of course, plays written before Shakespeare's era,
including rough comedies like "Gammer Gurton's Needle" that were performed at colleges or
tragedies that were performed in public spaces like an inn's courtyard.

But we will skip that period and consider the situation of English theater the era of Shakespeare.

Within thirty years of the first English theater being built in 1570, there were seven theaters.
There were many different groups of actors available, including companies of children who performed
for the Queen, choirs of boys who also acted, and the personal acting companies of many lords
(including Lord Leicester, Lord Warwick, Lord Pembroke, Lord Howard, and the Earl of Essex). 

The
main theaters were in Southwark - and there were three (including
the Globe) at Bank Side: the Blackfriars Playhouse, the Fortune in
Golden Lane, and the Curtain at Shoreditch.

Notably, none of these theaters are within the bounds of the city.

For example, the Blackfriars Playhouse was in the former area of the Dominicans, outside the city.
There were no theaters allowed in the city, which helped encourage a prejudice against actors.
This prejudice had its roots in the history of minstrelsy, when performers, including musicians
and dancers, buffoons and gymnasts, were itinerant and perceived as lawless.

Theaters had octagon outer walls but had circular internal spaces. There was a space called
the "yarde," which was directly in front of the stage.

In fact, the stage extended into the yard at a distance of three or four feet high. The people
who watched performances from the "yarde" were called "groundlings."

There were also three galleries in the theater. The lowest gallery had private boxes. The upper
two galleries are analogous to what we now call the "upper circle" and the "gallery." In addition
to the galleries and the yarde, there were young men seated on both sides of the stage. Finally,
the back of the stage had an elevated area. This area could be used for many purposes, allowing the
sets to have multiple levels.

The experience of audience members was very different in this era than it is in the contemporary
period. Audience members who were in the "yarde" or the highest gallery
did not have seats.

Commonly, the young men seated on the stage spoke loudly and smoked,
often disturbing the proceedings.

In addition, apples, nuts, and beer were sold before the performance
and during breaks. Books were also sold, and the audience members
played games and smoked while they waited for the dramatic action
to resume. One of those flute-like, bird-throated voices that children
often have who live in the open all their lives, chasing butterflies or gathering wild flowers.

Then came a halloo from the greensward. The priest was coming toward us, calling out, as he walked:

"Susette! Susette!"

He, too, underwent a change. The long, ivory-black cassock, so unmistakable in the atmospheric
perspective, became an ordinary frock-coat; the white band of a collar developed into the regulation
secular pattern, and the silk hat, although of last year's shape, conformed less closely in
its lines to one belonging exclusively to the clergy. The face, though, as I could see in my
hurried glance, and even at that distance, was the smooth, clean-shaven face of a priest--the
face of a man of fifty, I should think, who had spent all his life in the service of others.

Again came the voice, this time quite near.

"Susette! Susette!"

The child, without turning her head, waved her hand in reply, looked earnestly into my face,
and with a quick bending of one knee in courtesy, and a "Merci, M'sieu; merci," ran with all
her speed toward the priest, who stretched wide his arms, half-lifting her from the ground
in the embrace. Then a smile broke over his face, so joyous, so full of love and tenderness,
so much the unconscious index of the heart that prompted it, that I laid down my palette to
watch them.

I have known many priests in my time, and I have never ceased to marvel at the beauty of the
tie which binds them to the little ones of their flocks. I have never been in a land where
priests and children were not companions. These long-frocked guardians sit beside their playgrounds,
with noses in their breviaries, or they head processions of boys and girls on the way to chapel,
or they follow, two by two, behind a long string of blue-checked aprons and severe felt hats,
the uniform of the motherless; or they teach the little vagrants by the hour--often it is the
only schooling that these children get.

But I never remember one of them carrying such a waif about in his arms, nor one irradiated
by such a flash of heavenly joy when some child, in a mad frolic, saw fit to scrape her muddy
shoes down the front of his clean, black cassock.

The beatific smile itself was not altogether new to me. Anyone else can see it who wanders
into the Gallery of the Prado. It irradiates the face of an old saint by Ribera--a study for
one of his large canvases, and is hung above the line. I used to stand before it for hours,
studying the technique. The high lights on the face are cracked in places, and the shadows
are blackened by time, but the expression is that of one who looks straight up into heaven.
And there is another--a Correggio, in the Hermitage, a St. Simon or St. Timothy, or some other
old fellow--whose eyes run tears of joy, and whose upturned face reflects the light of the
sun. Yet there was something in the face of the priest before me that neither of the others
had--a peculiar human quality, which shone out of his eyes, as he stood bareheaded in the sunshine,
the little girl in his arms. If the child had been his daughter--his very own and all he had,
and if he had caught her safe from some danger that threatened her life, it could not have
expressed more clearly the joyousness of gratitude or the bliss inspired by the sense of possessing
something so priceless that every other emotion was absorbed.

It was all over in a moment. He did not continue to beam irradiating beatitudes, as the old
Ribera and the older Correggio have done for hundreds of years. He simply touched his hat to
me, tucked the child's hand into his own, and led her off to her mother.

I kept at my work. For me the incident, delightful as it was, was closed. All I remembered,
as I squeezed the contents of another tube on to my palette, was the smile on the face of the
priest.

The weather now began to take part in the general agitation. The lazy haze, roused by the joyous
sun, had gathered its skirts together and had slipped over the hills. The sun in its turn had
been effaced by a big cloud with scalloped edges which had overspread the distant line of the
river, blotting out the flashes of silver laughter, and so frightening the little waves that
they scurried off to the banks, some even trying to climb up the stone coping out of the way
of the rising wind. A cool gust of air, out on a lark, now swept down the path, and, with lance
in rest, toppled over my white umbrella. Big drops of rain fell about me, spitting the dust
like spent balls. Growls of thunder were heard overhead. One of those rollicking, two-faced
thunder-squalls, with the sun on one side and the blackness of the night on the other, was
approaching.

The priest had seen it, for he had the child pickaback and was running across the sward. The
woman had seen it, too, for she was already collecting her baskets, preparing to follow, and
I was not far behind. Before she had reached the edge of the woods I had overtaken her, my
traps under my arm, my white umbrella over my head.

"The Chalet Cycle is the nearest," she volunteered, grasping the situation, and pointing to
a path opening to the right as she spoke.

"Is that where he has taken the child?" I asked, hurriedly.

"No, Monsieur--Susette has gone home. It is only a little way."

I plunged on through the wet grass, my eyes on the opening through the trees, the rain pouring
from my umbrella. Before I had reached the end of the path the rain ceased and the sun broke
through, flooding the wet leaves with dazzling light.

These two, the clouds and the sun, were evidently bent on mischief, frightening little waves
and painters and bright-eyed children and good priests who loved them!

A PROCESSION OF UMBRELLAS

II

Do you happen to know the Chalet Cycle?

If you are a staid old painter who takes life as he finds it, and who loves to watch the procession
from the sidewalk without any desire to carry one of the banners or to blow one of the horns--one
of your three-meals-a-day, no heel-taps, and go-to-bed-at-ten-o'clock kind of a man, then make
a note of the Cycle. He is known to all the boys in the village, and is often found surrounded by
groups of dirty, small urchins. But this kind of company does not satisfy him. When walking
with his family, he is aloff, barely acknowledging his plebeian play-fellows with a shake of his
tail, like a distant nod from a patrician school boy to a town boy school friend he happens to
meet on the street.

The only bad feeling I ever noticed in Rover is a slight inclination
to jealousy, though this is less a vice than a virtue, for it springs
entirely from affection and has no malice in it.

One day a small stray dog attached himself to me and followed me home. I took him in and fed him,
intending to keep him until his real owner was discovered. He showed his gratitude in typical
dog fashion. Rover, though often truant, from the moment this stranger entered the house, would
not leave us until this guest was seen off. His manner towards us was oddly more attentive,
as if to show us that we needed no other companion than himself. At the same time he showed no animosity
towards our guest, always an example of reason and refinement. Rover also forms attachments
of his own, showing great discrimination in his choices. Everyone who offers him a bone is
not automatically a trused friend.

He has a few intimate friends in the village to visit regularly, where he is certain to find
a welcome and a plate of meat. Rover is a sweet dispositioned dog. He formed an attachment to
a laborer who worked in my garden and would often follow him to his home, were he was welcomed by
the man's wife and children. When the poor wife was taken ill and passed away, the husband was
quite distraught. Even the trees overhead have a hand in the villany, spreading their leaves thickly,
so that the sun itself has a hard time to find out what is going on beneath their branches.
All this you become aware of as you enter the big, wide gate.

Of course, being quite alone, with only my battered old umbrella for company, I did not want
a whole kiosk to myself, or even half of a giant umbrella. Any quiet corner would do for me,
I told the Maitre d'Hotel, who relieved me of my sketch-trap--anywhere out of the rain when
it should again break loose, which it was evidently about to do, judging from the appearance
of the clouds--anywhere, in fact, where I could eat a filet smothered in mushrooms, and drink
a pint of vin ordinaire in peace.

"No, I expected no one." This in answer to a peculiar lifting of the eyebrows and slight wave
of his hand as he drew out a chair in an unoccupied kiosk commanding a view of the grounds.
Then, in rather a positive tone, I added:

"Send me a waiter to take my order--orders for one, remember." I wanted to put a stop to his
insinuations at once. Nothing is so annoying when one's hair is growing gray as being misunderstood--especially
by a waiter.

Affairs overhead now took a serious turn. The clouds evidently disapproving of the hilarious
goings-on of the sun--poking its head out just as the cloud was raining its prettiest--had,
in retaliation, stopped up all the holes the sun could peer through, and had started in to
rain harder than ever. The waiters caught the angry frown on the cloud's face, and took it
at its spoken word--it had begun to thunder again--and began piling up the chairs to protect
their seats, covering up the serving-tables, and getting every perishable article under shelter.
The huge mushroom-umbrellas were collapsed and rushed into the kiosks--some of them into the
one where I sat, it being the largest; small tables were turned upside down, and tilted against
the tree-trunks, and the storm-curtains of all the little kiosks let down and buttoned tight
to the frames. Waiters ran hither and thither, with napkins and aprons over their heads, carrying
fresh courses for the several tables or escaping with their empty dishes.

In the midst of this melee a cab dashed up to the next kiosk to mine, the wheels cutting into
the soft gravel; the curtains were quickly drawn wide by a half-drowned waiter, and a young
man with jet-black hair and an Oriental type of face slipped in between them.

Another carriage now dashed up, following the grooves of the first wheels--not a cab this time,
but a perfectly appointed coupe, with two men in livery on the box, and the front windows banked
with white chrysanthemums. I could not see her face from where I sat--she was too quick for
that--but I saw the point of a tiny shoe as it rested for an instant on the carriage-step and
a whirl of lace about a silk stocking. I caught also the movement of four hands--two outstretched
from the curtains of the kiosk and two from the door of the coupe.

Of course, if I had been a very inquisitive and very censorious old painter, with a tendency
to poke my nose into and criticise other people's business, I would at once have put two and
two together and asked myself innumerable questions. Why, for instance, the charming couple
did not arrive at the same moment, and in the same cab? or why they came all the way out to
Suresne in the rain, when there were so many cosey little tables at Laurent's or at the Voisin,
on the Rue Cambon, or in the Cafe Anglais on the Boulevard. Whether, too, either one were married,
and if so which one, and if so again, what the other fellow and the other woman would do if
he or she found it all out; and whether, after all, it was worth the candle when it did all
come out, which it was bound to do some day sooner or later. Or I could have indulged in the
customary homilies, and decried the tendencies of the times, and said to myself how the world
was going to the dogs because of such goings-on; quite forgetting the days when I, too, had
the world in a sling, and was whirling it around my head with all the impetuosity and abandon
of youth.

But I did none of these things--that is, nothing Paul Pryish or presuming. I merely beckoned
to the Maitre d'Hotel, as he stood poised on the edge of the couple's kiosk, with the order
for their breakfast in his hands, and, when he had reached my half-way station on his way across
the garden to the kitchen, stopped him with a question. Not with my lips--that is quite unnecessary
with an old-time Maitre d'Hotel--but with my two eyebrows, one thumb, and a part of one shoulder.

"The nephew of the Sultan, Monsieur--" he answered, instantly.

"And the lady?"

"Ah, that is Mademoiselle Ernestine Beraud of the Variete. She comes quite often. For Monsieur,
it is his first time this season."

He evidently took me for an old habitue. There are some compensations, after all, in the life
of a staid old painter.

With these solid facts in my possession I breathed a little easier. Mademoiselle Ernestine
Beraud, from the little I had seen of her, was quite capable of managing her own affairs without
my own or anybody else's advice, even if I had been disposed to give it. She no doubt loved
the lambent-eyed gentleman to distraction; the kiosk was their only refuge, and the whole affair
was being so discreetly managed that neither the lambent-eyed gentleman nor his houri would
be obliged to escape by means of the lilac-bordered path in the rear on this or any other morning. 

The countries that face extreme cold winters also benefit from good sun light and heat much higher
than in our region. As parts of Germany is covered with snow for months also receives sun and
raise temperatures enough to ripe the grapes and Indian corn.
Wind and water are the primary elements which cause the modifications
in the climate, regions that are close to the sea such as islands
or coastal regions have balanced climate compared to very interior
regions of a continent and have winds in south-west direction with
high humidity.

British islands receive an average rainfall of 28 to 30 inches where as the mainland it is
quiet less; for Holland it is estimated as 26 inches whereas it is 20 inches for Northern Germany and
Denmark -- that is England's highest fall in summer and autumn. As far as winds are concerned,
western winds are more frequent than in what distinguished as the North European plain by Mr.
Henfrey, like in our county. "The west wind blows more frequently in England than in Denmark,
more there than in Russia.

The predominance is most marked in summer; in the winter, the easterly winds are almost as
frequent as the westerly upon the continent, which is not true of the British isles."
Though southwestern winds cause the cordial rainfall, sometimes they
last long until the end of summer destroying the grain-crops; but
the moisture content gets reduced as the wind travels forward while
precipitating on the way and it becomes very favorable to the farmers
in the Southern region of Russia.

1816 and 1817 years are the examples for this.
Russian experiences dramatic and contrasting climates, St. Petersburg receives an annual rainfall
of 21inches, and the southwestern winds are very common as well,
though less in comparison with Western Europe; they are also very
frequent in Kasan and Moscow.

It is stated that the average rainfall of four years in the Southern plains, is only six inches,
over 47 days in the year; but it is also very irregular that each years received rain in 59,
35, 53 and 39 days.

During 1832 and 1833, there was no rainfall continuously for 20months and sometimes during
dry years the rainfall was just one-tenth compared to those received heavy rainfall. In summer,
plants wither due to lack of dew, dried and cracked land.

The year 1841 received 8.5 inches rainfall and was not considered as dry year, but 1831 was
one among the wettest, the moisture disturbed the crops and plants much more than compared
to the drought, the soil was saturated, and remained over the impermeable clayey formation. When snow
melts in April and May months, it will be sea of mud in the steppes,
sometimes hardened by frosts, until the season ends, large number
of hyacinths, crocuses, and tulips, cover the soil, which may be again
covered by snowstorms from north-east, or destroyed by strong winds
from noth-west.

From mid-june there will be no rainfall for two months, except for few areas near streams, the
rich herbage dries very quickly than the time it took for growing, resulting in steppes turning into
black, dry, and waste land.
 We talked of the great six-day cross-country bicycle-race,
and how the winner, tired out, had wabbled over the Bridge that same morning, with the whole
pack behind him, having won by less than five minutes. We talked of the people who came and
went, and who they were, and how often they dined, and what they spent, and ate and drank,
and of the rich American who had given the waiter a gold Louis for a silver franc, and who
was too proud to take it back when his attention was called to the mistake (which my companion
could not but admit was quite foolish of him); and, finally, of the dark-skinned Oriental with
the lambent eyes, and the adorable Ernestine with the pointed shoes and open-work silk stockings
and fluffy skirts, who occupied the kiosk within ten feet of where I sat and he stood.

During the conversation I was busy with my knife and fork, my eyes at intervals taking in the
scene before me; the comings and goings of the huge umbrellas--one, two, or three, as the serving
of the dishes demanded, the rain streaming from their sides; now the fish, now the salad, now
a second bottle of wine in a cooler, and now the last course of all on an empty plate, which
my companion said was the bill, and which he characterized as the most important part of the
procession, except the pour boire. Each time the procession came to a full stop outside the
kiosk until the sentinel waiter relieved them of their burdens. My sympathies constantly went
out to this man. There was no room for him inside, and certainly no wish for his company, and
so he must, perforce, balance himself under his umbrella, first on one leg and then on the
other, in his effort to escape the spatter which now reached his knees, quite as would a wet
chicken seeking shelter under a cart-body.

I say my companion and I "talked" of these several sights and incidents as I ate my luncheon.
And yet, really, up to this time I had not once looked into his face, quite a necessary thing
in conducting a conversation of any duration. But then one rarely does in talking to a waiter
when he is serving you. My remarks had generally been addressed to the dish in front of me,
or to the door opposite, through which I looked, and his rejoinders to the back of my shirt-collar.
If he had sat opposite, or had moved into the perspective, I might once in a while have caught
a glimpse, over my glass or spoon, of his smileless, mask-like face, a thing impossible, of
course, with him constantly behind my chair.

When, however, in the course of his monotone, he mentioned the name of Mademoiselle Ernestine
Beraud and that of the distinguished kinsman of His Serene Highness, the Grand Pan-Jam of the
Orient, I turned my head in his direction.

"You know the Mademoiselle, then?"

My waiter shrugged his shoulders, his face still impenetrable.

"Monsieur, I know everybody in Paris. Why not? Twenty-three years a waiter. Twenty years at
the Cafe de la Paix in Paris, and three years here. Do you wonder?"

There are in my experience but four kinds of waiters the world over. First, the thin, nervous
waiter, with a set smile, who is always brushing away imaginary crumbs, adjusting the glasses--an
inch this way, an inch that way, and then back again to their first position, talking all the
time, whether spoken to or not, and losing interest the moment you pay him his fee. Then the
stolid, half-asleep waiter, fat and perpetually moist, who considers his duties over when he
has placed your order on the cloth and moved the wine within reach of your hand. Nature excites and satisfies
this passion everywhere, and in many ways, making is following in her pathways. Let us reveal
what can be concluded from this. After all, rooms must still contain the character value of
its inhabitants.


And last--and this is by no means a large class--the grave, dignified, self-possessed, well-mannered
waiter; smooth-shaven, spotlessly clean, noiseless, smug and attentive. He generally walks
with a slight limp, an infirmity due to his sedentary habits and his long acquaintance with
his several employers' decanters. He is never under fifty, is round of form, short in the legs,
broad of shoulder, and wears his gray hair cut close. THOMAS F.DE VOE,Colonel, New York,City. The
historian of the Markets
SAMUEL.G.DRAKE, Boston, Mass The historian of the Town of Boston, etc.
Colonel WILLIAM DUANE,Philadelphia.
HENRY W.DUNSHEE, New York City The historian of the Dutch School, in N. Y.
EVERT A. DUYCKINCK, New York City. Author of Encylo. of Amer. Literature, etc
Hon. THOMAS EWBANK,New York City.  V. P.of The American Ethnological
Society 
Hon. HAMILTON FISH, New York City The Historian of Lake
George, etc. The Leclanche is a fairly constant cell, needs little
attention. It "polarises" in action and regains its normal strength in rest. It is useful in
electric bells and telephones. Fig.16. It consists of a zinc rod with its connecting wire Z,
a carbon plate C, with binding screw.It is between two cakes MM of
black oxide of manganese, sulphur, and corbon, plunged in a solution
of salammniac. Being looked upon as part of the appointments
of the place, like the chandeliers or the mirrors or the electric bell that answers when spoken
to but never talks back, he has, unconsciously to those he serves, become the custodian of
their closest secrets. The purpose of strict religion was important to those in charge and kept
away the settlers most desperate to come to Canada. Many of the Huguenots
that did not go to Canada went to England instead.

They helped England prosper in textile and other industries.

Restrictions in commerce are common, as they are in industry. Can any intelligent
correspondents inform me why there is an oldest tree of all the Palace Gardens?
There in the back of the old London Bridge, on this side of a street called "Labour in Vain
Hill," not from the altitude, but a stone, which are carved two figures wash a Moor.
GEO. ST. CLAIR.
Dean Street, Soho.
* * * * *

Do not know where your tireless correspondent discovered his curious Zanga "historical fact",
detailed in item 471 of the mirror: it's fun, but unfortunately void of truth. The wife of the first
Earl of Clarendon was Frances, daughter of Sir Thomas Aylesbury, Bart. (Now defunct) one of
the Masters of the application, by whom he had four children subject - viz. Henry, his successor, Lawrence,
Earl of Rochester, Edward, who died unmarried, and James, who drowned while going to Scotland
in the frigate Gloucester: also two daughters - viz. Ann, wife of James, Duke of York, later
James II., Y Frances, married Thomas Knightly, created an Order of the Bath.
HENRY CARR.
* * * * *

SELECT BIOGRAPHY.
* * * * *
MEMORY O'Shanter TAM.
(The Mirror).

Thomas Reid, as famous as Tam O'Shanter by Burns, Kyle was born in Ayrshire. His first entry into
working life was as a farmhand William Burns, the father of the poet, whom Thomas described
as a man of great ability, as much an argument for rigid morality,
and strict discipline - so much so that when the work day had ended,
the whole family sat down to the fiery "is" groin ", and only under
the pretext of what could any of the prisoners to leave the house
after nightfall.

This was a circumstance that was not entirely pleasing to Thomas.

I had heard other scenes of ecstasy ploughboys count rustic joy,
which had fallen into his path, while the scenes on the evening visits
to the beautiful daughters of neighboring farmers bred - of which
he was practically ignorant. And more - he had met a young woman he
had known in Maybole Fair, having promised to call her in the house
of his father because of the regularity of their home economics teacher,
had been totally impracticable. I do not thank you, I invite you blessed.
Hello dear princess, hey little knot of friends, and tell them that you hope will do well.
Soon you will hear me. Be happy and remember me.
Yours,
Richard Wagner

PARIS, June 5 1849

(You received scores, and see some of here and-bye?)
I was your mother, and she gave me uncommon pleasure, it is a healthy woman! I call on them again.
She sends best greetings.
19.
Dear friends,

Is nearly four weeks since my wife left me, and I still had the news
of her.

My pain and depression are very good.

I have to earn another home and hearth, otherwise everything is with
me.

My heart is bigger than my sense. The Bellona I was in close consultation, and we formed the
following opinion and resolution derived therefrom: - 
In Paris,
I can do any good now, my business is to write an opera in Paris,
for something I am unfit.

This object can be achieved by storm, and if I achieve the most favorable poem in half a year,
and performance in a year and a half.

Paris, homeless, or - which is the same - peace of heart, can do
no work, I must find a new place where I am home and can make up my
mind to remain at home. To a place I selected Zurich. I wrote my wife
to come there with her younger sister, with remnants of our household
goods, so once more be united to me.

The repeated words came as cold and merciless as the drops of water that fell on poor Channet
as he lay under the gas-jets. 

Bonaparte is so vain and fickle as a coquette, as stubborn as a mule,
and equally bold and steady, anyone who has witnessed his actions
or thought about its operations must be convinced.

The opposition irritates your pride, and determines and orders,
in a moment of impatience and vivacity, which can cause misery for
millions of years, and perhaps his own repentance for years.

When Bonaparte was officially informed by his ambassador in Vienna,
the young de La Rochefoucauld, the Emperor of Germany had dropped
one of its official line of the Legion of Honor, who was furious,
and used against this the Prince worse, vulgar and inappropriate language.

I heard that he went so far as to say: "Well, Francis II. Are you tired of reigning.
I hope to be strong enough to take a third crown.

He who dares to refuse to be and continue with my peers, suddenly, like a vassal, which is honored
with the relationship as a teacher, I can indulge, compassion, by giving it. "
Despite forty-eight hours have elapsed after the angry exit before he met with the Ambassador
of Austria, Count Von Cobenzl, his passion was still so angry, that,
observing his rudeness and violence, all members shaking the diplomatic
corps, both for this her respected member, and the honor of our nation
thus represented.

When the public was more diplomatic, Talleyrand said, in a remote
and harsh tone of voice, in the presence of all his aides de camp
and general:  
"Write this afternoon, by a special courier, my minister
at Genoa, Salicetti to prepare the doge and the people for the immediate
incorporation of the Republic of Liguria with my empire.

If they dare to murmur Austria, the period of three months, they incorporate
the ci-devant-Republic of Venice with my Kingdom of Italy!

"
"But - but - Lord!" delivered to the Minister, trembling.
"There is no 'but', and I will hear no" but "," interrupted his Majesty. "Obey my orders, without
discussion.

If Austria dare to arm me, before next Christmas, make Vienna the
seat of a military division session.

In an hour waiting with offices ready to Salicetti. "
This Salicetti is a parade of a respectable family, born in Bastia, in 1758, and it was he
who, during the siege of Toulon in 1793, introduced his compatriot,
Napoleon Bonaparte, the present sovereign, the friendship of bars,
an event that since then he has produced so terribly noticeable consequences.

Before the revolution, an advocate of the Supreme Council of Corsica,
was elected to the First National Assembly where, on November 30,
1789, pulled the decree declared the island of Corsica part of the
French monarchy.

In 1792, he was sent by his countrymen as deputy to the National Convention, where he joined the
terrorist group, and voted for the death of their king. In May 1793, was in Corsica, and violently
opposed the supporters of General Paoli. Forced to make his escape in August from the island
to escape, he joined the army of General Carteaux then marching against
the insurgents in Marseille, where he was sent by the National Bar
Convention, Gasparin, Robespierre, the younger and Ricrod, as representative
of the people, the army before Toulon, where, and in Marseille, which
shares all the atrocities committed by their colleagues and by Bonaparte;
for which, after the death of Robespierre, was arrested with him as
a terrorist.

Do not know much Bonaparte in Corsica, but, finding him and his family
in great distress, with all other Corsican refugees, and to observe
his skill as a captain of artillery, he recommended bars, and their
representation on the Security Service, was promoted to a brigade
commander or colonel.

In 1796, when Bonaparte took command bars the Army of Italy, Salicetti
was appointed government commissioner to the army itself, and as such
behaved with the greatest insolence towards all the princes of Italy,
and most of them to the Duke of Modena, with whom he and Bonaparte
signed a treaty of neutrality, for which he received a large sum of
money available, but soon after, the duchy was again invaded, and
an attempt to surprise and seize the Duke.

In 1797 he was elected to the Council of Five Hundred, which always
remained a supporter of violent measures.

When, in 1799, his former protege, Bonaparte was declared First Consul, Salicetti want to be placed
in the conservative Senate, but his familiarity displeased Napoleon, who first made a commercial
agent, and after a Minister Ligurian Republic in order to keep a
distance.

During his various missions, he has amassed a fortune calculated at the lowest, six million
pounds

.
 A reason sugar has a high food value is it is a ready source of energy, but if taken between
meals, it increases caloric intake and if not utilized may be stored in the body.
[Sidenote: Water with Meals:]
For most people, one or two glassfuls of water,taken with meals, is not objectionable, as long
as it is not taken while food is in the mouth.

This could lead to choking.
[Sidenote: The Digestibility of So-called "Indigestible" Foods]
The science of dietetics will rapidly develop in the future, and will probably be more definite
than we've been here.  At present much is unknown,especially as to how rules have to be modified
for the particular individual. Personal idiosyncrasies have to be taken into account. "What is one
man's meat, is another man's poison." On the other hand, many have misjudged ideas as to their own
idiosyncrasies. For instance, many people think nuts do not agree with them, or that nuts are indigestible,
when the trouble is they are not chewing nuts fully and properly,
or the nus are over roasted.

Ordinary peanuts are often over roasted. Slightly roasted peanuts, when properly chewed have
seldom disagreed with people. Others believe that bananas never agree with them, when in fact
they eat them before they fully ripen and are too green. The ignorant public buys bananas when
they are an even green. While the banana vendor knows the banana isn't fully ripe until it's
peel is yellow and mottled with black.

[Sidenote: Avoidance of Fads]
Each individual must use common sense and intelligence to avoid accepting
a "fad" without sufficient evidence to it's claims. Also he must not
cling to customs simply because they are familiar, thus mistaking
scientific conclusions, which do not adhere to these customs, as fads. He was thirty
years younger then, but he is still there and so is the old house. Forty or bill geezerhood ago--that
is, within the retention of umteen a experience man--gambling was 'the act' in England, especially
in the metropolis. Streets now nonsensical and dull--such as Osendon Street, and streets and
squares now occupied by the most respectable in the land--for instance, St Malefactor's Form,
THEN opened doors to innumerous votaries of the mercurial and impulsive goddess of Condition;
in the flat of which umteen a nobleman, more a manservant, more an seaman of the Gray and Service,
clergymen, tradesmen, clerks, and apprentices, were 'cleaned out'--ruined, and involuntary
to self-murder, or to crimes that led to the gallows. 'I somebody myself,' says a illustrator
of the instance, 'seen ornament in chains a man whom a make minute
before I saw at a Stake tableland!'  
Story, as it is commonly statute,
does not sufficiently expend cognizance of the friendly pursuits and
practices that sap the vigor of a country; and yet these are the strip
influences in its destiny--making it what it is and leave be, at littlest
through many generations, by example and the inexorable laws that
preside over what is called 'inheritable sending.'  
Possess not
the gambling propensities of our forefathers influenced the recognise
generation?....  
No uncertainty play, in the comprehend burned
of in this aggregation, has ceased in England.

If there be here and there a Curve or Rouge et Noir fare in functioning, its creation is now
famed exclusive to a few 'sworn-brethren;' if gambling at game 'prevails' in indisputable housing,
it is 'kept unhearable.' The evil is not brassy. It slinks and skulks off into corners and holes,
suchlike a poisoned rat.

Therefore, semipublic morality has triumphed, or, to use the card-phrase, 'trumped' over this
dreadful utilization; and the law has through its obligation, or has justification to judge congratulation
for its success, in 'putting imbibe' play houses.
But we gamble relieve.

The vice on the Turf (now the most variable of all 'games of adventure') was, lately, something
that rang through and startled the full dry. We attempt in the finances. We adventure in interminable
companies (controlled)--all resulting from the aforementioned passion of our nature, which led
to the gaming of previous nowadays with cards, with cube, at Piquet, Appear, Faro, Adventure,
E O, Roulette, and Makeup et Noir.

At a past memorable tryout, the Peerage Important Functionary of England exclaimed--'There can
be no doubt--any one who looks around him cannot die to perceive--that a tone of reflexion and
game has confiscated bespeak of the minds of  super classes of the aggregation. Men who were
tradition to be satisfied with moderationist benefit and secure investments seem now to be
alive by a atmosphere of avaritia after increment, which makes them fit to move their fortunes,
yet scarce gained, in the vain comedian of realizing brobdingnagian
returns by premiums upon shares, and of making writer than safe and
intelligent gains.

We see that continually.' In fact, we may not be a jot outstrip morally than our forefathers. I
have set my vivification upon a Drop, And I faculty fight the  Jeopardize OF THE DIE!'  
Nor
is recreation as yet extinct among us. Every now and then a muckle of youngsters is brought before
the magistrates hot with vulgar 'moving' in the streets; and every now and then we hear of several
individual of genteel gambling, as recently--in the month of Feb, 1868--when 'a physicist member
of the aristocracy lost L10,000 at Whist.'  
Nay, at the point
of the give gathering there appeared in a daily product the pursuing
startling declaration to the application:--  
'Sir,--Allow me, through
the columns of your paper, to telephone the aid of the parents and
friends of the immature officers in the Channel-fleet to the majuscule
extent recreation is carried on at Lisbon.

Since the fast has been there other diversion concern has been unsealed, and is filled every day
with preteen officers, more of whom are under 18 period of age.
 

In the dining room he had placed many portraits he had bought from
the Duke of Wharton.

These included eleven portraits by Vandyck, as well as works by others
from Titian to Venderwerf.

 It would be time to begin after they all had picked a place quickly
and I wrote all of them down.

Pontresina I exclaimed. It was as though I had heard only of that place. She asked the aged
person what his answer was and he said Macclesfield being very sure of himself. The old family
member wanted to say the place she had picked.

I thought as must it might be St. Ives. The hostess walked from one end to another asking if
everyone had picked places and then she asked me.
 Surprised. I idea so."Yes, Monsieur, the next station.
By Hell I surprised somebody.... 
Who are a million, a trillion,
a nonillion young men?

All are standing. I am standing. We are wedged within and onto and again and below each other.
Sardines. Knew a man once whom was arrested for theft sardines.

I, sardine, glance at three sardines, at three million sardines, at a carful of sardines. How
did I get here? Oh yeah of course. Briouse. Horrible name "Briouse." Made a bluff at riding deuxieme
classe onto a troisieme classe ticket bought for me via les deux balayeurs. Gentleman within
the compartment talked French with me till conductor appeared. "Tickets, gentlemen?" I extended
mine dumbly. He provided me a look. "How? This is third class!" I glanced intelligently ignorant.
"Il ne comprend pas francais" says the gentleman. "Ah!" says the conductor, "tease simplicity
eye-ee thoorde claz tea-keat.

You air een tea say-coend claz. You weel go ean-too tea thoorde claz weal you yeah pleace at
once?" So I got stung as soon as all. Third is many amusing certainly, although god-damn hot
with these sardines, incorporating myself of course. O yeah of course. Poilus en permission.
Very old some. Others mere kids. Once observed a planton whom never observed a razor. Yet he
was reforme. C'est la guerre. Several of ourselves get off and lengthen at a little tank-town-station.
Engine thumping up front somewhere within the darkness. Wait. They get their bidons filled. Wish
I had a bidon, a dis-donc bidon n'est-ce pas.

Faut pas t'en faire, whom sang or remarked that?
PEE-p....
We're off.
I am almost asleep. Or myself. What's the matter here? Sardines writhing approximately, cut it
out, none room for that type of thing. Jolt.
"Paris."

Morning. Morning within Paris. I located my bed full of fleas this morning, and I couldn't
catch the fleas, although I endeavoured steely because I was ashamed that anyone should encounter
fleas within my bed which is at the Hotel des Saints Peres whither
I went within a fiacre and the driver didn't know whereas it was.

Wonderful. This is the American embassy. I ought glance funny within my pelisse. Thank God
for the breakfast I ate somewhere ... good-looking girl, Parisienne,
at the switch-board upstairs.

"Go right within, sir."

A-I English via God.

So this is the fellow towards whom Edward E. Cummings is immediately
towards report.

"Is this Mr. Cummings?"

"Yes." Rather a young man, very young within fact. Jove I ought glance queer.
"Sit down! We've been glancing everybody again creation for you."

"Yes?" 
"Have a number of cigarettes?" 
"Yes." 
By God he
provides me a sac of Bull. She said, she could gain service so vantage as those she
had in holograph.

Noble Shaftesbury then requested the vantage of existence allowed to peruse it, and having
through so, he inquired of the Countess if she had any many, as he
should equal to feature them all if she had.

Having conventional and register them, he was so much proud, that he resolute to publish them;
and having them equipped for the machine, he publicised them with a introduction recommending
the sermons and highly praising the author."  It appears that the sermons were braced for the
cast, at Baronage Shaftesbury's happening, by the Rev. William Stephens,
rector of Sutton, in Surrey; but the fact of the preface state by
himself rests on the undoubted information of his miss, Muhammadan
Betty Marshal (spouse of Book Publisher of Salisbury, the author of
Hermes), who mentioned having handwritten it from her brother's dictation,
he being at that reading too ill to pen himself.

The letters to Michael Aynsworth are very interesting, from their eleemosynary, earnest, and genuinely
devotional ambiance, and might flatbottomed now be see with vantage by a fauna graduate of
field: but, beingness real plain in numerous places upon the greater air of the body of the
clergy titled the Religion of England, could acquire been by no implementation comestible to
the Overlooking Religion recipient,--

"Who no writer laurels themselves a Christianity Faith, or in northern with those of Christian
communion, tho' they unreal to the analyze of Christianly, and would somebody us adjudicate
of the spirit of Christianity from theirs; which God keep! lest men should in indication forsake
Faith finished their agency."
The ordinal accolade in the MS. is primary on account of the observations it contains on the consequences
which must necessarily uprise from Philosopher's naturism respecting innate ideas. Philosopher had
been tutor both to Lord Shaftesbury and his head:--

"Mr. Philosopher, much as I purity him, and fortunate as I pair him, and can result for his naturalness
as a most zealous Religion champion, has espoused those principles which Mr. Hobbes set on meter
in the live century, and has been followed by the Tindals and all the else discharge authors
of our moment. 'Twas Mr. Locke that struck the national use, (for Philosopher' testimonial
and supposal submissive principles of authorities took off the alter of his philosophy), struck
at all fundamentals, threw all sect and chastity out of the group, and prefabricated the real
ideas of these (which are the  self as those of God), supernatural and without substructure in
our minds."
It is remarkable that the loudness of Whichcote's Sermons printed by Baronage Shaftesbury should
have been republished at Capital in 1742, with a recommendatory epistle,
by a Protestant elysian, Dr. Wishart, educator of the College of Edinburgh.

In the very refined separate of the composed sermons acknowledged
by Dr. Mythologist and Dr. Gerard, in 4 vols., 8vo., Aberdeen, 1751,
prefixed to the gear volume, we also label Baronage Shaftesbury's
introduction.

S. W. Vocalist.
Mickleham, June 4. 1850.
* * * * *
THE Rise.
Sir,--The printed repeat of a song which I skirt is believed, by those who are the prizewinning
judges, to be the only reproduce, either printed or in manuscript, now in world. That circumstance
may, perhaps, make it unobjectionable to you: and I am not bearer
of curiosities, and I beg you would do what you satisfy with it.

The verses are plainly author modern than the locution: for there
are, I judge, two allusions to antithetical plays of the everlasting
bard of Stratford-on-Avon.

But perhaps you leave imagine that he copied from it, as it is said
he sometimes did from things not so healthy as his own.

I do not judge, for my own portion, that it was graphic soil after the Great Revolt.  Bishop Christopherson,
I select it, was a Papistic Catholic, but medico in England, and we see that he wrote in English.
The report, you testament mention, is imported by the texture, as
asymptomatic as by the water-mark, which I cannot real well modify
out; but it seems to be a destroy of somebody; while the type looks
quite Spin, and thus it is no control that it was printed abroad.

As I think you my sincere nominate, I plan you gift not moot me as
retentive, or wishing to urge, specified opinions as are contained
in the verses: and by way of resistance, you testament grant me to
purchase myself, your dutiful retainer,  
PACIFICUS.

"THE Disloyal.

"A New Strain, or Balade, shewing the bad conceits of Traytours; that
all loial and true-hearted men may cognize and avoid the aforesaid.

"They counte Serenity to be movement of ydelnes, and that it maketh men hodipekes and cowardes."--Bp.
Christopherson, Exh. ag. Disloyal. 1554.

"Swear me no much of Peace-- 'Tis spirit covert; The human of Prize and unkind Relaxation, A
statement to be detested.

"Let daffodills conjoin The seely Herder's top, A nobler chaplet I'll win for mine, The Lawrel's
manly bough.
 Now in
a Comic Opera as it is called, your principal low comedians will
do say, or sing very little.

That little bit that they do may not be comedic. When the story is devoid of humorous scenes,
it may have to depend on the freshness of its music, the popularity of the performers and the
exellence of the whole production for its success.

If the last of these essentials are not placed on the stage with the brilliance as in some of
the other shows, yet there is plenty of Harrisian movement, always as a result of the stage-management
devices of CHARLES, who is expert in keeping the Chorus and the game
active generally.

 Dorian Gray threw his hat and coat on the table while he walked
into the library. For 15 minutes he paced, biting his lip and thinking. Then he took down the
Blue Book and turned open the cover.

"Alan Campbell, 152, Hertford Street, Mayfair." Yes; that was the man he wanted.

CHAPTER 14

At 9 am, his servant came in with a cup of chocolate and
opened the shutters. Dorian was sleeping peacefully and he looked
like a boy who was tired out.

The man had to touch him twice before
he woke up, and as he opened his eyes he smiled. Perhaps the most difficult problem of legislation is how to punish
crime, and in so do reform the criminal; how to uphold the man as
a terror to evil-doers and yet at the same time be implanting in him
the seeds of a future more happy and prosperous life.

We are a long way from despairing for some approximation to a solution,
which is the ultimate target, but we are also unconvinced that even
this will not be shown to us by those willing to ignore the difficulties
they have to contend with.

Therefore, without assuming the air of opposition to the plans of
philanthropic legislators, we can try to correct some of their misconceptions
and oversights that energic reformers are likely to fall into while
viewing punishment in its reformatory aspect.

We have chosen to comment on the pamphlets of Captain Maconochie, not only because they show
hasty and illogical reasonings and forgetfullness of basic principles,
but they also contain some suggestions with real value - a suggestion
towards an efficient prison discipline, which needs to be examined
in further detail.

In addition to these pamphlets, we have added a brief work of Zschokke's, the Swiss historian,
on capital punishment so that we might extend our consideration to this subject also. It is
evident that the question of capital punishment, and the various questions relating to prison discipline,
encompass all that is either interesting or important in the prevailing discussions on penal
legislations. Transportation doesn't form an essentially different class of punishment, as
the transported convict is only different in that he has to serve
his sentence in foreign lands.

There is an unsolvable contradiction in the term reformatory punishment. Punishment is suffering,
deprivation, pain, despair and affliction, but reformation is kindness, a measure of prosperity
and a greater measure of hope. Castigation has no genial input. It may prevent the repeat of the
identical offense it visits, but no conversion or renewal or the
heart waits on its hostile presence.

The disposition will still remain the same, with additional angry
sentiments which are generated from endured pain.

No philosopher would invent a purgatoiry for the purifying of corrupted souls, instead he would
say that purgatory would be a place of preparation, but not for heaven. You can make devils
in purgatory, nothing better; he must already be twice a saint whom
the smoke of your torments would not blacken to a demon.

We may rest assured that the infliction of punishment must always
be an evil to both body and mind, to both society and the culprit.

If the threat alone could be constantly efficacious and the stubborness,
passion and obtuseness of men would not oblige the execution of the
penalty for the purpose of sustaining the efficacy of the threat then
all would be well, and penal laws might be in full harmony with the
best educational institutions and the highest interests of humanity.

 Young's major argument is that in literature intellect must make rules
for itself, and that replication is dangerous.

"Intellect," he says, "can set us rightish in work of art, without the rules of the learned;
as moral sense of right or wrong sets us opportune in vivification,
without the laws of the land."

 Lawyers and laymen competed
with each other to condemn the Bill.

Mr. RAE complained that their motto appeared to be L'état c'est moi. Sir GORDON HEWART, responding
to the charge that there never had been such an Indemnity Bill, pointed
out that there never had been such a War.

The Second Reading was eventually passed with the Government's commitment
to refer the Bill to a Select Committee, from which it is supposed
that the measure will come back in an entirely different form.

Tuesday, May 4th.--The Matrimonial Causes Bill continues to proceed slowly in the House of Lords.
Its ecclesiastical opponents have been kept on the run, but are still
full of fight.

The Archbishop of CANTERBURY very nearly gained a new clause providing
that it should not be lawful to celebrate in any church or chapel
of the Church of England the marriage of a person, whether innocent
or guilty, whose previous union had been dissolved under the provisions
of the Bill.

His most reverend brother of York spoke darkly of Disestablishment if the clause were lost,
and eleven Bishops voted in its favour, but the Non-Contents defeated it by 51 to 50.
Captain WEDGWOOD BENN inquired whether swords still formed part of
the uniform of Royal Air Force officers, and, if so, why.

Mr. CHURCHILL'S defence of its retention was more clever than convincing. Swords, he said, had
always been regarded as the insignia of rank, and even Ministers
wore them on occasions.

The POSTMASTER-GENERAL supports a quiet and calm life. When the Dublin postal workers announced
their intent for a two day sympathy strike in union with a Sinn Fein strike, he opted not to
discipline or dismiss them.

Rather, he gave them two days' leave on full pay, a much simpler plan.
Thanks to the Irish Nationalists, who have announced they have no plans to participate in the
dicussion of the Government of Ireland Bill, Mr. BONAR LAW was able to remove the scheme for closuring
it by compartments. The new Irish doctrine of self-extermination has pleased various ministers.
Mr. CHURCHILL'S gratitude will come in the form of a portrait of
Mr. DEVLIN as Sydney Carton under the shadow of the guillotine.

On the Vote for the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries Colonel
BURN suggested creating a new Department responsible for sea harvests.

Dr. MURRAY approved the idea, and thought that the Minister without
Portfolio might pass up leisure for fishing.

Wednesday, May 5th.--Selfishness does not always make Trade Unionists
unwilling to admit ex-service men to their ranks, but sometimes solicitude
for the welfare of these brave fellows.

 He
did not feel the loss of intellectual stature much.

This was partly a result of the ingenuity with which he explained how he made the mistake. Even
though there was loss in intellectual prestige, there was also an
increased sense of intellectual comradeship for him.

But this is a small and unimportant digression. Some masters are for intellectual infallibility.
These political discussions unnerved them.

They felt that their credentials as schoolmasters were being found inadequate. The masters accused
the boys of priggery. It was a false charge, the boys were enthusiasts, and enthusiasm is as
much a form of self-forgetfulness as priggery is a form of self-consciousness. Still priggery
was the word they used for the boys. "Priggery" was then added to the charge of "pacifism."

On
these lines the opposition developed and ultimately was triumphant. Many suggested that the
school would be empty in a couple of years if political education continued. Yet it would
seem, that the critics were counting on their false idea of the parent
and believing what they wished to believe.

The only conclusion you can draw from the statistics of entrance
is that political education either had no effect at all or that it
slightly increased the commercial well-being of the school.

It was not on these grounds that political education was doomed.

As we stated at the beginning of the chapter, the material of our
experiments was solely the boys.

We had made a quick cut.

We had made no efforts to conversion our colleagues.

We trusted the results to do the conversion work for us. But, as the preceding narrative will
have shown, our success led to their irritation. This was when success became labelled "pacifism"
and "priggery.

"
 It's stopped bleeding now. ABOUT MY ORCHARD
My name is WILLIAMSON, and lived for 40 years in Kannas of Washington country. It would be helpful
if I share my experiences on cultivation practices done for "Apple" in the orchard. To my opinion,
the terrain of the land must be the bottom area with a north/eastern
slope having black loamy and clay as sub-soil.

It is my experience that the Cooper's Early White is not a good
variety as it will not bear much fruits and therefore it was removed
from my garden.

The planting distance of the trees were 30' x 30' and keep the trees
for 3 years a good seed bearing variety.

Wind belts are to be raised to protect the trees from fruit falling.

Mulberry seeds are to be sawn and cedar saplings to be planted on the wind belts planned for raising.
It was my practice to keep traps for rabbits and dogs.

I used to do top thinning and cut watersprouts and dead branches
to enable to get sufficient sun shine in-wards, but never cut fruit
bearing branches.

Bee-hives with bees were placed in random to help pollination and found that it was very much
meaningfull. The manuring was done regularly with wastes collected. The orchard was never allowed
for grazing. The pest and diseases was controlled by spraying London
purple.

If the bark is having good sap flow, the attack of borer would be less. Some valuable trees were
saved from the borer, by taking a hole of quarter-inch by a drill bit and applying strychnine
or sulphur and plugging the hole.

This was also controlling the locust. Somebody may explain it scientifically. The Apples collected
by hand picking and was sold on retail, by keeping it in a barrel at home. It was one of the
profitable method I could understand. Drying of the apple is not recommended. Ben Davis, Winesap
and Missouri Pippin are the best to be in store. While storing the apples, it is better to cover each
one with paper and to keep some paper in between and pack in the boxes as layers in underground
stores. The celler was opened and kept on hot and sunny days and
thus keeping method have shown good results.

The cost per bushel was around 35 cents to $1.10. No other experienced person other than Wellhouse,
the "Apple King" was making good money by the experiences and the other horticulturists were giving
legacy to the following generations. Though I was profiting by home market, the experience gained at Kansas
as a leisure time planter from 1856 onwards, were great and now I am planting in Ozark country
near Olden, only for marketing idea. I could have done this at Kansas, but it was taking a longer
time for maturity, there. In Missouri I had to pay less taxes. How ever I would suggest that
the orchiardist should not be pumping more horticultural practices and must not be carried
away by fruit trees and have a financial set back.

One must also understand that it may not bring more money than cultivation in hog or corn.
I must thank the lively works rendered by the members of State Horticultural Society as they ensured
that the fruiticulture maintained a success point. However it is found that worthless varieties
have been planting by year after year.
***** Hi, my name is ERNST FAIRCHILD,from Hiawatha, Brown city.

My apple orchard is 12 yrs old in an extend of 15 acres, in Kansas. Market varieties are Jonathan,Ben
Davis and Rawle's Janet and for a family orchard Snow, Winesap, which are sweet types. A Land
of eastern slope is the best for planting. Pruning is done for shape.

Packing is done in square tin pails with false bottom as it is easy to open. Vinegar is made
out of sorted apples. The prices I am getting is - 60 cents to $1 per barrel. Employed men's wage
= $1 and boys wage =75 cents  ******* NEILS HANSON, settled for 32 years at Willis, Brown city,
says that he has got an orchard of 200 apple trees of 20 years of age. The varieties suggested
by him are - Ben Davis, Jonathan, Willow Twig and Strawberry. He would destroy Willow Twig and
Lawver. He likes the low lying land with clay nature and having a northern or eastern slope. Pit size
for planting is 2'deep at 4'x4' square. He is using plow or spade around the trees for cultivating
for 8 or 10 years.The wind belts are planted with Maples or willows as crops and corn or oats
are planted as a cover crop in the young orchard.

Pollarding and thinning is essential and good, he says.
 Take the name Mona, both human and heavenly. I
think we can find its root in the Sanskrit language. It means "To know or worship," which
has given us many variations; Manu the son of Brahma, Menu, Menes, Minos, Moonshee, and Monk. Mona
was probably applied to those of both islands, especially those that contained Druids, whose
name probably came from the dru, a soothsayer, almost the same as
the Sanskrit "mooni," a learned person.

This relation leads me to ask: Might these two variations of Mona be the abode of piety and
wisdom, the "fortunate island," as it were?
J.G. CUMMING Castletown 

The fertile slope looking to the south is where I will plant my corn
and tobacco and vines; the rest of the valley will be where my sheep
and cattle browse, while several agile goats stand positioned picturesquely
upon Dr. Leidy’s rocky monsters. 

"We must do everything. I will go to the grocer,Mr. Scott. I will tekk him to give us things at
the cheapest rate". Charlie , with masculine disdain of details,agreed to leave everything
to the other person, as he was worried of even a smallest sum. The other person accepted it.
 She only complained that at some point she'd thought she'd
have a child and that this thought has been with her ever since she
can remember.

Not that she'd ever been married or engaged or been with a man because she hated the thought
of acting immorally. So she does know that she can't get pregnant
if she's never had sexual intercourse. Petition to J. Willes, Esq.
The case of the Poor Knights (printed), with numerous other related papers.]
"Elijah's Mantle."--Who wrote Elijah's Mantle? And do any grounds exist saying it belongs to
Canning? You would be cutting Masaniello short if you did not consider his actions against
his wishes. His belief regarding Naples was in tune of people’s support of it, not his own
political ego, he is noted in this 1828 record incident. On July 12 th the 6th day of his so called
contradiction he was asked by a lady to wear a crown, but he instead insisted he wear a crown
of the local events (a plant one of all things) in recognition of his peoples customs. It would
later go on like this, in his statements of rebellion. “When I have delivered my country I
shall resume my nets. You will find them no more. Rebellion should not be undertaken, or it should
be carried on to the end. I will resume my nets. He was responded to by a aggravated monitor, “What
then shall I find?—Death!”. Masaniello is in this case seen in the sense of looking out for
its peoples customs, rather than its takeover through tribute.

Despite this he was forced to consider the safety of his people,
through Genuino, and d’Arpaya, how that these riches were the safeguard
of its peoples customs in light of Philip IV.

His characteristics as a man would fall to the same state of mankind, wanting one thing but ultimately
falling to another in order to get by, his problems only known full well to him.
LONDON.  This was literally translated from a Chinese Poem, when a chineseman visited England in 1813.
The towering edifices rise story above story, In all the stateliness
of splendid mansions: Railings of iron thickly stud the sides of every
entrance; And streams from the river circulate through the walls;
The sides of each apartment are variegated with devices; Through the
windows of glass appear the scarlet hangings.

And in the street itself is presented a beautiful scene; The congregated buildings have all the
aspect of a picture.
 

Cold and pompous, with nothing to the interest of the imagination, emotions or exercise, I can not
imagine someone less sympathetic to his wife, beautiful and romantic. She must have been very
young when she married him, and probably still does not know she complains because he has
not learned that he can worship.
I've been twice in his house, when my first record there. I love hearing that voice soft and lovely,
and to escape the darkness of my own reflections to shine, but the simplicity of her. In my days
at the beginning of this consolation that were present no danger,
but we grow callous sense of excess.

We can not turn to illuminate the ashes! I can look at the beauty of your dreams, and not experience
a single wish, which can stain the purity of my worship. I can hear his voice when it melts
in the caress of his birds, flowers, or a deeper devotion to his son, but my heart is not the emotion
of tenderness of the sound. She touched my hand and my pulse is as calm as possible. Fullness
of the past is our best protection against the temptations of the
future and the dangers of young people are more when we have tried
to dullness and apathy of affection, which should belong only numbness
of age.

Such was the Falkland statements at the time he wrote. Ah! what is so disappointing that our
emotions? Our security is our risk - Our Despite our defeat! Day after day he went to E -------. It was on the morning
of doing excursions with Emily in the wild and romantic country in which they were surrounded and
dangerous but delicious stillness of summer twilight, they heard the first whispers in their
hearts.
In his relationship with Lady Margaret took Malvinas his apology for
the frequency of their visits: Dalton and even the lady was so captivated
by the fascination of his way to (despite his earlier antipathy),
forgot to ask how their privacy in E ------ infringed properties of
the world he loved, and to what extent was related to herself.

It is not necessary for me to crawl through all its windings formation of this love, the following
records that are now referred.
 

Regarding Thomas Wright of Durham.

In April, 1848, it was my privlege to provide an account of his "Original
Theory or new Hypothesis of the Universe" to the Philosophical Magazine.

Writing in the mid to late 1700's, his thoughts or predictions on the future of astronomy, in
particular regarding the central sun and the milky way, reveal him to be one of the most remartable
thinkers of his time.
Some seven years after his death in 1786, the Gentleman's Magazine published a rather spotty biography
of Thomas Wright. Though it describes the struggles he suffered whilst still a young man without
means of livelihood, it makes no mention of his middle years, only resuming the tale, in 1756,
or thereabouts, once he had already gained his hansome competence in philosohical matters.

Aware of my continuing interest in such matters, some days after this my account was published,
Captain R. E. James informed me of the presence of a large four-foot orrey in Portsmouth.
It had, in fact, been constucted for the Royal Acadamy at Portsmouth, by Wright himself. Furthermore
according to John Harris in his work, "Use of Globes", Wright held
the title of Instrument-Maker to his Majesty, and kept his shop at
the Orrey, near Water Lane, Fleet Street (No. 136) 
It is rather
strange that this information was omitted from the biography in the
Gentleman's Magazine, since the 8th edition of the "Use of Globes"
was published in 1767, many years previously.

Indeed, referencing the advertisements in Harris's work, Wright had
an extensive business as an instrument maker, though few would have
been as philosophically minded.

Your readers may perhaps be able to provide some further information.
Regards, A. De Morgan.
It has recently come to my attention that at funerals in the Teame valley, at Broadwas, Worcestershire,
it is custom are for the bearers of the coffin to, upon reaching "the Church Walk" and set
it down, to stand about and bow to it.
B. A. Cuthbert Bede
*****

QUERIES
LITTLECOTT & SIR JOHN POPHAM
Few are unaware of the rumours of the means by which Sir John Popham (Chief Justice) acquired
possession of the manor ot Littlecot in Wiltshire.
Though it has been taken up and retold by such icons as Aubrey and Sir Walter Scott, as well
as many more of lesser repute, I myself am hesitant to repeat such a notorious tale, especially in
this learned community.
Indeed, such is the reputaion of this publication as part of the "detective police" that your close
examination and the the resulting elucidation of many points in regard to this matter, would no
doubt be interesting to many, as well as greatly helpful to myself.

I have no doubt that further clarity on this matter would be of particular interest to those
decendants of Sir Popham, specifically those currently inhabiting
the estate, as well as to those of us who have an interest in the
purity of the bench, in all tenses.

Futher to this cause, I bring to your attention the existence of a petition that was committed to four
privy councillors of Queen Elizabeth, under whose rule, Sir Popham was a great judge. After
investigation, it was found to be slander and the petitioners were
punished.

If, upon re-discovery and re-examination, the slander in the petition
were found to reference this matter, the details of the investigation
might aid in revealing the utter falsehood of the charges.

Furthermore, it would be usefull to find details of the means by which
Sir Popham aquired Littlecott, or by which it was lost to the Darell
family, specifically the dates of said events.

Any records regarding the arraignment of Darell for murder, or the judge presiding over such,
would also be useful.

Considering the staunch reputation of Sir Popham during his time on
the bench, particulary amoung his associates, the rumours appear to
contradict the very fabric of reality.

If there does exist evidence by which to refute the onging slander,
I trust you will, at least, consider the case curious enough to find
such.

Edward Floss
*****
EARLY EDITION OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
Having recently come into the possession of a copy of the New Testament - though "N. & Q."
to whom I am greatly obliged - I am curious to discover when it was printed and also, the name
of the translator.

Unlike any modern book, it seems never to have been covered with leather,
cloth, or any other material.

Instead, it has been bound in the traditional manner, between boards,
with three thongs, to which the sheets are stitched.

It has had clasps at some point and measures four inches in length and two in thickness. 
The
chapters have generally been split, by means of the first letters of the alphabet, into four to
five sections. Unlike recent printings, it has not been divided into
verses, and the aforementioned letters are neither equidistant nor
always mark a fresh paragraph. Fritz ridiculed him severely and
laughingly remarked that he was making excuses where he was master. He was sure that had he
been in Apollonius's place, he would have behaved in a different manner. He was a person with
integrity and didn't feel the need to be excessively sweet. He had come to Apollonius's room
without expecting to find him, but it was the latter that was surprised
by his visit as was caught.

He had seized the prospect of reconciliation as an excuse thereby
exposing his meekness.

That was the reason his wife was scared since she had been trying to fool him to believe that
Apollonius had never come into the room. That was the reason she looked at him pleadingly,
her scornful gaze measuring him coming apart from her face pretending to be innocent but revealing
her guilt. Now that he had become aware with certainty, the only option remaining to him was
revenge.
Now was the time to prove to his brother that he had always known him.
Pointing towards his wife he remarked that she was pleading him to depart, but he had no reason
to do so. "I'll look outside the window and not see what you are doing. That shall do just as well."
he added.
Christiane didn't even have to look at him to know that Apollonius
didn't understand him.

She tried to leave the room as she couldn't tolerate humiliation in the presence of Apollonius.

Controlling his desire to laugh, Fritz looking at his brother said
"Don't mind that she wants to flee.

The moment I turn my back she will be back here. Go on, talk to each
other.

Tell him that you can't tolerate him."
"Give her some of your lessons from Cologne where you had learned
how to drive your brother out of his house, his business.

Why don't you tell her? A women should be willing. Tell her that she is that kind of willing
woman who doesn't know it yet being so innocent.

Haw Haw!!"
Apollonius still couldn't understnad anything of what he was was seeing and listening. But he
felt angry watching the helpless woman being abused by the brute power of this man. It made
him stronger and he gripped him by the arm that held his wide. As a result he let go her and
dropped down. Christiane once again tried to leave the room but fell down helplessly. Apollonius
managed to grasp her and laid her down on the couch and stood behing his brother looking like an
angel on a warpath. daughters Angel's (pleasanter
angels Mr. Idle and Mr. Goodchild never saw, nor more peaceful expert in their businesses, no more
upper Vice common to be above it), have a little time to rest, and air cheerful faces of their
among the flowers in the yard. Is market day. The market seems unusual natural, comfortable,
and healthy people market. The town seems quite restored, when, come on! a metal Bray - Gong-donkey!

Wretched animal has not cleared off the rest, but here, under the window. How much more inconceivably
drunk now, with as much begrimed by foot, how much closer calico
hide, the more turns and daubed and dirty and dunghilly from his horrible
broom on toes its bid, which is saying!

He can not even shake Bray himself out now, without laying his cheek
so close to the mud of the street, that he pitches over after its
delivery.

Now, prone in the mud, and now supports himself against the windows,
owners coming in terror to remove him now, the drinking-shop, and
now in tobacco, where it is going to buy tobacco, and make your way
to beauty and if he gets a cigar, which, in half a minute, he forgets
to smoke, now dancing, now dozing, now cursing, praising, and now
my Lord, Colonel, Captain Noble, and worship your honor, Gong kicks
ass at his heels, occasionally braying, until suddenly, he sees them
dear friend in the world coming down the street.

 

It is inappropriate for a lady to use a horse that pulls hard, or
hangs heavily upon the reins; yet this lady is one having the mouth
so tender as to suffer from moderate pressure, because of the snaffle
or the restraint.

The horse is not easily getting tired out, and the lady is distressed
by the hand holding the bridle.

PERSONAL EQUIPMENTS.

A lady has a good chance to display a refined or judicious taste,
in the selection of personal equipments.

Something that is garish, unnecessary, or even elaborate is considered vulgar.
 

They were sintered below.

The third was the Pasta method described above.

These methods produce fragile filaments, but light output was higher
than the previous one.

But now in this country of ductile tungsten on the road.

A tungsten ingot is subjected to high pressure until it is the shape
of a bar.

Finally, it is intended to son. Much of this development was carried out by the laboratories of General
Electric Company and will help with other significant improvements.

 Until now the matter of Deism had been mainly
treated for its bad effect or damaging effect. Christianity mysteries, include the limit of
thought to which it imposed, punishment and rewards system, prophecy fulfilment, and its magic
and wonder, has been attacked one after another. Naturally, the questions arises, 'What will
take it place?' or as the Deist put it, 'What will you put in the
place of the Christianity popular concept?" for this question, not
just Christianity but Deism also professed to attact. If a long handle is added, and
it is filled with tar, it can be used as a gesture torch. If shallower baskets of the equivalent
dimensions, but with their bottoms chop or punched out, are spaced interior these conical ones,
the two together earn capital trap baskets for crabs and fish. If a bamboo stem be chop just
beneath the joint, and its lower edge be divorce into a cogged rim, it earns, when the partition
of the joint is punched out, an earth-auger, a fountain-pipe, and
a lot things of the kind. 

Gallery of similar nature, but a tree, and White learned the above purpose, assigned by John
Carter on the northwest corner of Westminster Abbey still remains. You and I, unfortunately, the
ancient side and get respect and better clear a tower and a pillar
of solidarity would have been satisfied in the capital.

Drawings of some of these cities, and made my choice seemed to be
the two most singular.

This is you in 1004 for his evil deeds and good works of the deceased observe the weight
and the weight of the former far exceeds what the four claims he saw himself as the most unfair and
an effort to depress the size of his two You want a fork.
Occurs frequently in the fable of the monk, miraculously, he started
by throwing a pilgrimage to the Virgin .-- .-- adults knew the devil's
fraud, hold the balance of his address to the devil, which processes
human .-- Legend Madonna, adult size The time of Lent jeukeugwa .--
4 .-- lies in the ashes of repentance is immaculate, refused to meet
with the promise of sun visors pulled leaves are answered by a deposit
- Carnival of the masker .-- They are still the same so the gown be
godly sorrow for sin, sweets and keep interchanging Compare concern
over what is still the Son, was observed by the wise people call him
an evil thing (the size of the correction principle) always seemed
to be heavy.

Almost his client's salvation, he luckily just on the edge of a prostitute and a golden basin clenching
8 small pier was hopeless, he saw a black toenail. Claw-foot technology is at once betrayed
the cracks. Old Nick, the balance, under the cunning little devil had put a young person, his
chief, kept clinging to scale according to the instructions on the pull down his every sway. As
an adult from the moment of his proper place, and immediately sent imp burthen of the crime was
a light kick.
The balance of painters and sculptors often introduced this ancient
fable of good and evil, their representation of the Last Judgement:
It also has hired Lucas Kranach.

I am sending you Sagittaries other capital or as a group of Centaurs
is ornamented.

Astronomical pieces often are found along the ruins of the middle
period.

The two also form part of the zodiac series of single pieces, Musée des Monumens language preservation,
and speaking from memory, I close with a style that they like to
think will be listed here.

Montivilliers itself is a neat little town, a beautiful valley nestled
in the clear water is flowing into a stream.

At this point it is trivial to trade, but unlike the past two events, the oteulneun rival those of
Flanders, and took into account the preservation of manufacturing
too many results, it reveals the miscellaneous regulations were respected
and have a royal ordinance.

One of them, especially the notice of 14-century mark of the fabric of a crook Montivilliers
other cities promised to imitate.
Montivilliers Harfleur much of the general appearance, but the walls and numerous relics of
the gate once it has still represents great importance is compared.

It is now Havre de Grace, of the ancient trade, the latter situation,
the city is much more elegible to be sent.

Harfleur Seine no longer roll down the waves, and desiccated in the port now can see the green
meadows. Therefore, it is futile without the help of historical inquiries that are connected
to the origin of the name, Huet, Bishop Avranches [39] of, for us to know, speak with a call to
the names of many places in Normandy Barfleur, Harfleur, Honfleur, Fiefleur, Vitefleur, & c.
Results for the fleur as such, it has been generally, if they come at the end fluctus, it is
Saxon, which means the language fleoten the flow must pass. So we got flot flot fleut with the
fleur, the last modulated by the genius of French language and warranties. Bishop further
states, those two are true, his name is now fleur terminated anciently
flot, Barfleur the Barbeflot, Harfleur Hareflot, and Honfleur Huneflot
after the determination of origin evidence: 1 affording, and all the
other places so that they where The site is washed by the tide.

This also the Netherlands, a village in the name of the location of the termination of vliet,
and as soon as the British fleet, Purfleet, Byfleet, & c. Flevus the same kind of Latin word
is derived from the same source; Hareflot and Huneflot for old records
instead, Hareflou and Huneflou, some other Barfleu flevus approach,
called the term and also have peutolremayiohseuro fleus, and Mela,
fletio must.

 He niver come
out, but had his grub sent him. To make a very fine Cream

Figs cut small, one Ounce of Anniseeds bruised, half an Ounce of Licoras sliced, one Ounce of
Cloves bruised, two handfuls of Burrage Flowers, and so much water as will cover all, and two
fingers breadth above them, then boil it on a great fire in an earthen
Vessel covered, untill the roots be soft and tender, then strain out
the Liquor, and to every Pint of it put a pound of fine Sugar, the
whites of two Eggs beaten, boil it to a Syrrop, and use it often,
two or three spoonfuls at a time.

To make Syrup of Turneps for a Consumption For a Consumption to pickle
Cucumbers,Sliced Turneps also very thin, in some Vinegar, Pepper and
a little Salt, do make a very good Sallad, but they will keep but
six Weeks.Cinamon and Cloves, boil it together for a quarter of an
hour, then take the yolks of eight Eggs, beat them together with some
of your Cream, then put them into the Cream which is boiling, keep
it stirring lest it curdle, take it from the fire, and keep it stirring
till it be a little cold, then run it through a Strainer, dish it
up, and let it stand one night, the next day it will be as stiff as
a Custard, then stick it with blanched Almonds, Citron Pill and Eringo
roots, and so serve it in.Take the least you can get, and lay a layer
of Cucumbers, and then a layer of beaten Spices, Dill, and Bay Leaves,
and so do till you have filled your Pot, and let the Spices, Dill,
and Bay Leaves cover them, then fill up your Pot with the best Wine
Vinegar, and a little Salt, and so keep them.Flower, put to it one
pound of Butter well washed with Rose-water, and work them well together,
then take the Yolks of four Eggs, and beat them with four Spoonfuls
of Rosewater, in which hath been steeped two or three days before
Nutmeg and Cinamon, then put thereto so much Cream as will make it
knead to a stiff Paste, rowl it into thin Cakes, and prick them, and
lay them on Plates, and bake them, you shall not need to butter your
Plates, for they will slip off of themselves, when they are cold Sugar
hanging about them.

Then if you would have them look as though they were new gathered, have some help, and open them with
your fingers before they be quite cold, and if any Sugar hang about them, you may wipe it off
with a fine Cloth; to candy Rosemary Flowers, or Archangel, you must pull out the string that
stands up in the middle of the Blossom, and take them which are not at all faded, and they
will look as though they were new gathered, without opening. To make Sugar Cakes Take a Pint
of Red Cows milk, then take the Yolk of a new laid Egg potched very rare, then stir it into the
Milk over a soft fire, but do not let it boil, sweeten it with a little Sugar Candy, and drink
it in the morning fasting, and when you go to bed.
 Non-Commissioned officers are provided with marriage
quarters; however, this service is not offered to privates. American barracks are intriguing,
and provide for a higher class of recruit; the craftsmanship is second
to none with a stunning interior.

Soldier barracks are located separately, and tend to be positioned
near recreational establishments such as gymnasium, mess hall, and/or
bath houses.

Sale of liquor is prohibited as it was abolished in 1901.

For more information see The Barrack Synopsis (1905); The Handbook of Design and Construction
of Military Buildings (1905); The Army Regulations, India, vol. xii.

(E. N. S.)

BARRANDE, JOACHIM (1799-1883), Austrian geologist and palaeontologist, was born at Saugues, Haute
Loire, on the 11th of August 1799, and educated in the École Polytechnique at Paris. Despite
his training in engineering, his first profession was that of a tutor to the duc de Bordeaux
(afterwards known as the comte de Chambord), grandson of Charles X., and when the king abdicated
in 1830, Barrande accompanied the royal exiles to England and Scotland, and afterwards to Prague.
Settling in Prague in 1831, he was finally able to put his training
to the test with a new job in engineering works, and his attention
was then attracted to the fossils from the Lower Palaeozoic rocks
of Bohemia. The publication in 1839 of Murchison's Silurian

There is no warning given. Few colleagues have been called so often and in such different times, to
take the chair at public meetings or preside formed societies. Few have so successfully acquitted,
if the dignity of presence, amenity of speech, fluency of speech, or dispatch of business, should
be considered. As a president who seems "born for that." His personal influence has been able
to magnetize a medium body die on active new life. This feature is particularly strong among
his friends said staff. No one can approach him in doubt, discouragement or shame, and leave
without a greater hope, a stronger value, virile, and a faith in
itself.

The energy that has led him to labor still exists.
Wilder is now president of the New England Historic Genealogical Society, the American Society
pomological, and the Massachusetts Agricultural Club. He is senior manager of the Massachusetts
Agricultural College, Member of the State Board of Agriculture, and the executive committee of the Massachusetts
Horticultural Society. He is senior director at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
the National Bank of Hamilton, the New England Mutual Life Insurance Company and Home Savings
Bank. He is an honorary member of the Royal Historical Society of Great Britain, corresponding
member of the Royal Horticultural Society of London, and Société
Centrale d'Horticulture de France, and member of the Royal Academy
Italian Araldo Pisa.

Well did Governor Bullock, in a public occasion to speak of Wilder as "one who has applied the
results of its hard-won gains from trade so freely that in every home and every home in America,
where the golden fruits of summer autumn cheer the sideboard and hearthstone, his name, his
generosity and his works are known and honored. "It is also known and honored abroad. Chronicle
outfielder London, the leading newspaper in agriculture in Europe, in April 1872, took his picture
and a brief overview of his life, which earned the praise is introduced
as follows: - 
"We are pleased to have the opportunity to present
to our readers the portrait of one of the most distinguished of the
transatlantic market gardeners, and one that, by his zeal, industry,
and determination, not only has provided lasting benefits in their
home country , but has cared for his experiments in hybridization
and culture of established fruit growers of all nations under heavy
obligations to him.

 

I love my country and being a soldier i m ready to sacrifice myself for the liberty of my country
in defence but not on the field but on the scaffold.I am proud to
be a Man, a Soldier and a Christian. As it were, this gloomy theatre was, visited over and over by British
officers and others. A friend of mine told me he watched the performances
for seven nights, he is in the Guards and was not pleased.

       

Capetown has several music halls. I have visited the same type of places in Costantinople,Cario and
other miidle eastern towns but none matched the Capetown haunts for rudeness.
 

The thick and syrupy wines, which are usually made up just for this holy use, are not wanted;
on another note, unfermented grape juice isn't wine.

139.
This rubric provides for the applicable taking of the species.

The instruction to drink the Wine, as well as to ocnsume the Bread, specially, is necessary to
drive the consumption of it, as well as of the Bread. It is most wanted that care should be taken
in the consecration that no more of the elements should remain that the party can simply consume
without assistance.

But if it should happen that he finds it proper to call to him other communicants for the purpose
of consuming a considerable excess, the word 'reverently' implies
that they should receive it in the same posture in which they spoken.

The prohibition against carrying the wine that isn't drunk out of
church involves the cleansing the cups in church.

This should be done by the Priest himself.

Although the Service has been concluded, the churchgoers are not
required to withdraw immediately: indeed, if all left right after
the blessing, the Priest could not call unto him any of them for the
purpose of consuming the remainder of the sacred elements.

The method of cleaning, which is really intended to ensure the entire consumption of all that
remains, is not predetermined, and the word 'reverently' leaves much to the discretion of the
reverend, while it certainly applies as much to his demeanour as
to that of the people.[l] 
140.

The Bread and Wine for the Communion should be provided by the leader and the Church-wardens at
the charges of the rest of the church community.
141. And note, that every Parishioner shall speak of at the least three times in the year, of
which Easter is one. And yearly at Easter every Parishioner shall reckon with the Parson, Vicar,
or Curate, or his or their Deputy; and pay to them or him all Ecclesiastical Duties, certainly
due, then and at that time to be given payment.

142. After the Divine Service ended, the gainings given at the Offertory shall be given to such pious
and hospitable uses, as the Minister and Church-wardens shall think necessary. If they disagree,
it shall be disposed of as the Ordinary shall appoint.
143. Where it is ordained in this Office for the Administration of
the Lord's Supper, that the Churchgoers should receive the same kneeling.

THE MINISTRATION OF
PUBLICK BAPTISM OF INFANTS,
TO BE USED IN THE HOLY CHURCH.
144. The churchgoers are to be admonished, that it is most easily that Baptism should not be
administered but upon Sundays, and other Holy-days, when the most
amount of people come together; as well for that the Congregation
there present may give proof about the receiving of them that be newly
baptized into the number of Christ's Church; as also because in the
Baptism of Babies every Man there may be put in remembrance of his
own profession made to God in his Baptism.

For which cause also it is quick that Baptism be ministered in the vulgar language. Also, (if necessity
so demands,) Children may be baptized on any other day.
The main goal of the text is that there should be a good gathering; and in preferring 'Sundays and
other Holy days to other days, because 'the greatest amount of people'
then 'gather together,' the rubric implies that some gather on all
days, viz., to daily Morning and Evening Prayer.

145.
The twenty-ninth canon of 1603 made it forbidden for parents, that
is fathers, to be godfathers for their children; but this prohibition
was removed by the Convocation of Canterbury in 1865, although the
amended canon has not yet been received by the sanction of the Crown.

So that the law on the topic has been transitioning for sixteen years, and a tradition of admitting
fathers to be godfathers for their own children is growing up.
 In less than a century, there are varieties of modern instruments
such as telescope, microscopes, micrographs and telephones are in common use. But at the same time,
etheroscope is one of the modern devices which have been offered by the Royal Society.
It is also necessary and important to know about the answer for a
question.

The answer as per recent explanation is an English F.T.S., and the “Adepts” of the good law
will reject gravity. But some kind of misunderstanding is also there in impact theory. But this
is the only reasonable theory in the gravitation hypothesis. According to their statement, for
giving explanation on electric and magnetic distance- action, if the physicists try to make efforts
to connect it with ether, they will have to face a complete failure in this regard. This is
also will occur importantly due to the race ignorance of the ultimate states of matter in nature
and of the real nature of the solar stuff.
 

Some time later, after experiencing a tiring walk through the abrasive debris, we arrived at
the point from which this glorious flood had burst.

There was a gigantic piece of the bank left on either side of the valley , with a big gulf flowing between.
We did not quite expect to find this; the newspapers had stated that everything in its entirety
had been washed away. A complete half of the whole thing still exists, which does include pieces
of that central depression which was mentioned. The statement of everything being washed away
was not the case. It is more important than it may seem to report this finding. One theory
has been greatly embraced regarding the mystery of the Parallel Roads
of Glenroy-- which is that by lakes these roads were produced, and
long since ruptured its boundaries and been discharged.

The question has been asked: Where was the dam located that held in the lake? if there did
happen to be a dam, couldn't we expect that it would not be completely washed away? Wouldn't
we find remnants of it along the sides of the valley--the disintegration
of the middle being enough to allow all the waters to flow out?

As we observe the pieces left of either side of the Bilberry banks, we can see the applicability
and strength of these questions, and the lake theory we shall admit is thus far diminished. A small
stream is visibly flowing, in the bottom of the rift--the exact stream
which only a few months ago increasingly took a on fearful form.

Visible marks where the ground had been submerged are seen from within
a mile up the valley.

 Cliques of angels, hoards of celestial vagabonds
bearing myriad melodious contrivances, ciphers, and devout symbols, altogether compose a wonderful
conglomeration.
Scholars of building construction will find the areas between the apse and the nave to be of the
most concern, as they represent the oldest crafted area of the church. These areas are in
the same vein as the ones in Winchester crafted by the brother of Abbot Simeon. Winchester's
transepts date to 1093, however, nearly a decade before the Abbot arrived in Ely. Simeon is most
likely only partly responsible for the triforium, and a successor almost assuredly appended the
clerestory. Both transepts contain walkways, but in the southern
one, the westernmost walkway is obstructed by a wall. It is against the law, he argues, to work with
any one who is performing ill, and an advocate clearly advises and helps him whose cause he
undertakes. Modern Catholic casuists have handled the subject in
the same manner. 

Bryan de Blenkinsopp had a problem.

She was quite ready to put up a fight - his wife that is - and it didn't seem that he could
push her around as usual and make her show him where the treasure was. He decided, therefore,
to do what would make her most unhappy - he would simply disappear.
As vicious as she would seem in a quarrel, Bryan's wife truly and deeply cared for her husband,
despite his brutish and controlling nature. At the bottom of it all, perhaps she didn't even
really care for the gold; one could surmise that she was only jealous
because she felt only second in importance to him behind the treasure.

Yet, as miserable as she was before, she was a hundred times more so after her husband had
left. She moped around, days at a time, head hung low. Days, weeks, then months passed, and
still she heard no news of her dear Bryan.
Sick with grief, she decided after a year of loneliness that she could take no more. One day,
she packed all her things, gave the word to her servants, and left,
never to return again.

Whether she returned to her hometown, or went in search of her husband, no one knew. The neighbors
swear they never saw her leave, and as the years passed, the story of the White Lady of Blenkinsopp
was reduced to fireside tales on a cold winter days, more legend
than fact - ghost stories if you will.

Rumors spread of sightings of the fair and unhappy lady. White-robed, she wandered the empty rooms
of her former residence at night, it was said. And though the tales were more often than not
unsettling, and though the castle was slowly but surely falling apart, families still occupied
the building for centuries afterward.
One such family occupied a pair of rooms; it was about the year 1820. They moved in - the man
with his wife and two kids - knowly fully what was said about the place, and yet so much time
had past that they hardly thought of the tales as anything more than silly superstitions. They
didn't believe in superstitions.

One night, not long after they arrived, piercing shrieks resounded in the silnt night as the
man and his wife slept, and they sent their hearts plummeting into their stomachs. Springing up,
faces white, they entered their children's room.

Buried deep under the covers, they found their younger boy, sobbing and frightened. He started
as the wife peeled back the blanket and revealed her son, so whtie
and distraught she hardly believed it was him.

When his eyes met hers he said hysterically, "Oh mother, mother. There was a lady. A lady in
white."

"Shhh, calm down. You're safe. There was never a lady in here. It
was all a bad dream." 
Never stopping, he continued, "She sat down
beside me crying. Held me. Kissed me. Told me I would a rich man if
only I went with her, and she would show me where the treasure was
buried. I was scared. I hid under the covers. Then, then I felt her
lift me up, carrying me away." That which seems to serenely and regally to tell a lie exists.

Then
our own ideas levitate beyond the earth and all that it has to offer. Please, would you sing
a sound I adore so that I can realize the tears of joy that I possess.

The sounds and words that lift my heart and fill my core while leaving me quivering and trembling,
almost in fear are the ones I wish you would sing again.

These tunes you sing are beyond the human range.

As I rest upon my grassy bed, could you stay close and creep down near to my head to sing the
song I so love, dear soul?

If you are a young reader, you might notice that the versage here is not perfectly aligned, yet it
is filled with rich sentiment and meaning, essentially coming from
a mind that is highly poetic.

"The lady became more aware of the value of knowledge and developed a deeper longing for it."
Her gratitude grew to the point it was even more than it was really worth. She believed the
girls obtained extreme advantages by pursuing a female education. One day as she was speaking to
her own mother she told her she had originally derived only half the sum of knowledge she
now had and that she could see others had been slighted in the same way. She told her mother that
she was most delighted to have the opportunity for the education. Someone of a youthful age
who is equipped with a hard working, diligent disposition and studious habits could deeply
long for a classical education while it is at the same time being
wasted on those less suitable.

There are girls like Lucretia, who show promise of being genius who would be best suited for a stockpile
of books to fill their minds with facts and information. Lucretia is talented with the Bible
and many poets in her own language which is a good sign of extraordinary intelligence. The girl
has a strong love, much like a cancer even for knowledge. One time she said, "I am the whole
of sixteen years, but I know nothing! I have to learn so much more, time passes so quickly. It is
not usually what one does with their youth but it is what is in my
heart!"

On another occasion Lucretia remarked, "How much could there be to learn -- if I could only do it
quickly, that would be the goal."
In 1924 in October, Lucretia began to see a gentleman, She was seventeen.
He looked at her writing and was told of her deep commitment to becoming
educated. Due to her circumstances, he agreed to place her in the
best schools and allow her every advantage at the same time. His name
was withheld at his own choosing, because he did not want his kind
deed broadcast in every direction. In spite of his opinion, many people,
especially English people, would have liked to know who this kind
gentleman was. They would have bestowed many honors upon such a kindly
soul. As for Lucretia, her own happiness was almost more than she
could sustain. ("Saviour,
blessed Saviour") and "Abends," which was originally written to Keble's "Sun of my Soul."

"THE BIRD WITH THE BROKEN PINION."
This song of a misplaced gift, with its striking message, might have
been taken from the wounded bird's own song, it is so normal and so
clear-toned. 

The owner is not bound at his peril in all cases to keep them from neighbor's person but he
is always bound at his peril[100] to keep them off his neighbor's premises.
The general theory of liability is that an auctioneer never take rest. This is the objection
of that decision. It springs altogether from the special exingencies of commerce. To hold a
person liable of unauthorized intermeddling with another's property, until there is a practical
necessity for rapid dealing does not become unjust. In some manner or other, these effects must be tied to the widely known
arithmetical relations amid the frequencies of vibration of the sounds that create a musical
scale.

It is viable, though simply a proposal, that the pleasure created by different sound sequences
primarily depends upon the passage of vibration from one state to
another in the vibrating mechanism of the human larynx. [CLAPPING]

I do not think so. Henry Clay stated the same doctrine a time before our Civil War; I heard him.
In addition to Clay's assertions, I heard similar utterances on our Senate's floor by virtuous
and educated men twenty years back, when we were on the verge of one of the bloodiest wars ever
to devastate this, or any, land. In light of this, I am doubtful as to whether or not society
has the all-important hindsight into wars and rumors of war, and the insight to look forward into
a state of unpunctuated peace.

The answer is no, comrades. As he was in the beginning, man remains
in the same state today.

Men are not logical entities. Men are passionate and, at times, must have these passions forcefully
curbed. Furthermore, the prudent willingly and readily meet hardship when it rears its head.
The best answer to that question is man's need for preparation. [CLAPPING]

Comrades, this brings us to tonight's toast, during which you have
given me the opportunity to give my response to something with which
I am not entirely familiar.

Tonight, we have heard about the "New England Ideas."

You have outlined your society's principles. These principles are as sound as if handed down by the
Lord himself. [CLAPPING AND LAUGHTER] Supported by a codicil of sorts, as presented to me,
and it seems that a considerable portion, probably half of the country, is still upset, and
Yankees are not welcome in the South.

I know first-hand that two-thirds of the United States' territory
remains unsettled.

The war between the civilized and the barbaric has blazed on ever since the Pilgrims landed on Plymouth
Rock with no end in sight. Mr. Beecher put it well when he said that the strife our forefathers
started was meant to strive for a higher manhood. A virtuous manhood. One of faith and courage; one
aspiring to reach those attributes of the Lord Almighty.

Every Yankee holds the belief that each citizen must create his own
glory, as that is the way to ensure each person liberty in its most
elated form.

Each citizen must advocate for this, by erecting places for education and worship alike to
bring his civilization to others. By doing this, the Yankees have enlarged New England to such
a point that it now encompasses half to a third of settled America.

I want to remind the American people that, although this is a great achievement, it is still
in progress. You still have work to do.

Like your cousins in London, you do not know the struggle that lies ahead. At this very moment there are
Miles Standishes, under the snow-capped Rocky Mountains, doing exactly as our forefathers did
those two hundred and fifty years in the past.

The struggles that lie ahead are the same as those faced by our forefathers. You will recall that
they began in New England, building fences, log cabins, and preparing the exhausted, rocky earth,
as described by Mr. Beecher, and I feel those actions held great
importance in developing New England's character.

You in the audience may not have the same vigor if your forefathers found themselves tilling the
fertile Mississippi River delta. Your forefathers toiled and labored, which is good for you and
your children, as long as you and they follow the same path.

In Brooklyn and New York, however, you and your forefathers differ.

Here in New York, with its wealth, station, and all that brings about a comfortable life, though
you believe in the same ideals, you are not physically the same.

I can take you where you can see real Yankees, Yankees like your
forefather.

Because of New York's size, you wisely have a larger police force; a police force which is proportionally
larger than that of the entire United States army to its citizenry. Even if you have "scalpers"
here, you do not have a local Indian threat. [CLAPPING AND LAUGHTER] New York does not have "road
agents," and still you have your police force.

As you keep your police, so does our Government, where the threat
of Indian attacks and "road-agents" permeates.

You, the gentlemen whom I address tonight, contributors to the transcontinental railroads, firmly
understand that the small military force I represent is, at this
very moment, policing these great roadways against the desperate men
who have a mind for halting cars and interfering with the post and
travel, that would otherwise stunt commerce and trade with other civilized
lands provided to us by the Pacific road, which leads to San Francisco.

 

Salt Lake City Mormon Elders pleased anecdotes Thackeray relations with their namesake, editor
of London.

At Peoria (Illinois), he held his audience with laughter by telling
his fellow critical good words, Sir William Robertson Nicoll.

In Philadelphia, a very old man, who claimed to be a younger brother
of Mr. Rochester (in Jane Eyre "), publicly embraced and borrowed
two U.S. dollars illustrious visitor.

Rumor that Mr. shorter to be called our ambassador in Washington should not be too easily overlooked.
America often send us a man of letters - Lowell, for example, and hay. Why should not we return
the compliment? Appointment would be better than many who could be appointed.
That can not be concealed that the absence of Mr. Short at home in America is severely felt. Fleet
Street wearing a mourning air and Dublin is aware of a painful loss. Regarding our authors
are in a state of consternation, some is true, as mice if the cat is away, are taking liberties,
but many are paralyzed by the knowledge that there is no watchful eye, a part, so instant praise
or blame, rests. Even publishers normally a hectic race are insensitive, and books that were
to have been issued have been suspended.

For what is used to bring new books, if CKS is not here to pass on their final comments before
their ink is dry?
England's loss is, however, get America. A new cocktail was named after him.
* * * * *
* * * * *

Peace Treaty.
What really impressed the Germans, above all with the power of the
Big Four was the third clause of section 3, as listed in the press:
- 
"Left bank of the Rhine. 
... Germany must maintain or construct
any fortifications less than fifty kilometers east of the Rhine. "
WILHELM even himself never succeeded in reversing the course of
this river famous. Contribuiţi cu o traducere mai bună 

Someone asked if I had ever heard of him again. When we reached New York he was standing in
his old place near the aft wheel-house in a daze. He seemed to have no intentions to go ashore,
so I asked which hotel he intended to stay in. Agib excitedly told his grandmother he had been taken to eat in a cookshop where
he said tactlessly, "the food was even better than yours." On hearing this, his grandmother
got up and went to her brother-in-law to relay this outrage to him.

Incensed, he call for the eunuch and demanded he explain why he had taken the boy to the cookshop.
 At this point in history, most of the areas in which the population
was concentrated (over 10,000 individuals in more than 200 population centers) received more than
adequate political representation, as documented at the time.

The exceptionally detailed documentation includes not only the tentative expansion vectors
for each area but also zone descriptions including the length of
routes to and from each center, along with lists of the inhabitants
(divided into ten year sections) showing gender, race, and birth locations
for past and contemporary residents.

In addition, the documentation includes narrative-style reports of the historical events for
these areas, topological treatments of the geography with rivers and sources of potable water,
records of the weather, descriptions of infrastructure for most essential and non-essential
services, and so on. It is possible to look up the best place to buy a horse or to be buried,
consult the train timetables, and find out about local zoning and
regulations in each area.

The level of details present in the records attests to the hard work of civil engineers, business
leaders, public leaders, including politicians, law enforcement,
and public safety personnel, tax collectors, food vendors, and, in
particular, those responsible for public sanitation, which was all
the rage and an important part of civic growth, health, and vibrancy.

And, of course, blessed are the most of attentive of the map makers, for the history they detail
will long be remembered. In the largest zones with the most difficult to track populations,
civil servants were responsible for special investigations resulting in this much needed data
-- and those are probably the most exhaustive records available.

In other areas, this information was compiled locally from periodicals and by cyclopedists,
historians, or defacto journalists. People are perhaps most interested in reading about famous
cities such as St. Louis and New Orleans, and there are detailed monographs describing both of
those by the likes of GW Cable, who understood the complex mixture of French, African, and American
culture in "The Big Easy", and author/historian Waterhouse, who had the same relationship
with the rich history of "The Gateway to the West"/"Mound City". People are also not famous
for liking to read a lot, so some of these accounts exist is abridged forms, something that lovers
of the unabridged originals may lament. Note, though, that these official stories do not always
go back much further than the foundation of the cities they describe, and reference to additional documents
may be necessary to truly understand the settlement or prehistory of a given place.

It was relatively common to hear the misguided complaint that 'America has no literature' or
'America has no history', as a result of the comparative newness of the "new world" when framed
against the long history of the "old."

Even so, there are enough histories of many places, including cities in the original colonies,
so detailed and comprehensive that it is difficult to imagine writing anything new about those
time periods in those places without being entirely derivative. Consider, as examples, Waring's
history of Boston "Beantown" Massachusetts, or MJ Lamb's writings on "The Big Apple" that is the
eponymous city in the state of New York, and even S. Cooledge's consideration of "The City of
Brotherly Love" named in an earlier paragraph.
 He
preached to his congregation in the afternoon on the Sabbath.

II Chronicles 5:13,14 was his chosen scripture and sermon; and in his closing,the listeners
remember how lovingly and seriously he spoke: "Dearly longed for and beloved, now I begin a new
year of my ministry to you; and resolved I am, if God grant me wellness and strength, that I
shall not leave a woman, man, or children among you alone, not until you have heard the gospel
of God pertaining to his Son, either to your salvation or condemnation.

And as I before have done, I shall pray, that if a measurable outpouring of his Spirit the Lord
will grant us, it will be done by him in such a way that it will be very plain to even the weakest
child that it is the work of the Lord, and not the work of man. As Rutherford said to his people,
I think I shall say to you, 'To me your heaven would be two.' And if from you the Lord be
pleased enough to grant me a crown, I here do promise before him, that at his feet I will cast
it and say 'The Lamb that was slain was Worthy!
A prevailing of a jealous spirit has been feared for much time among
the people of St. Peter's, some stating, "I am of Cephas, and others
, I am of Paul."

The recently converted people were inclined to view their spiritual father in a way in which
they could regard no other. But Mr. M'Cheyne had been given by the Lord a holy blessing that removed
every envious feeling. The single-heartedness he had been enabled to show was questioned by many.
 

If not for his constant reliance on her, she would have dreaded her days and what had become
of him. She feared losing him; his youthful strength diminished daily, which she fought by helping
him walk round the room with his arm about her shoulder.

When he improved just enough to maneuver with a walking stick, a beaming Mavra surprised the
countess by helping him into her private salon; the countess, engaged in a book of devotions,
didn't look up at first, knowing the patient was usually asleep at this hour.
 

Dr. B. or Dr. Safford didn't sprad the illness through exposure as it isn't proved that it is
fully developed in urine, spit, or sweat. It seems that the Gemiasmas produce fever, but we
can't be sure that no other cryptogam produces malaria. The plants described by Dr. B. were seen
but eliminated as cause by me. I want Dr. B to study this subject
more, as there are few giving it th attention it demands. It is not difficult to
see why the revolts of peasants in the Middle Ages were apparent by abhorrent excesses,--why
adept Catholicism able a St. Bartholomew's Eve for Paris,--why Dutch and Scotch Protestants
defaced and trampled beneath bottom ecclesiastical Art,--why German princes proclaimed a cause
adjoin beginning Protestantism and Pan-slavism beneath Ziska and
Procopius in Bohemia,--why the fagots were accursed at Constance,
Prague, and Smithfield, and Pequod wigwams in New England.

All abominable scenes, by artlessly demography place, appearance that they accept acumen for
it. But will they yield abode again?

A Black Douglas did assuredly live, and he was the nursery-threat
for awkward Scotch accouchement during several generations; the Douglas
never bent one of them, but the blackmail did.

So we are plied with stock-phrases, such as "the Reign of Terror"
and "the Horrors of San Domingo," and History is abjectly conjured
not to echo herself, as she absolutely will do, if she goes on in
the old way.

Of advance she will. But does she adduce to accouter a fac-simile of any analytical aeon which
haunts the imaginations of mankind? That depends aloft circumstances.

The aforementioned butt will play a beginning tune by a hair's-breadth alive of a spring.
Two epochs may assume to be absolutely alike, and the men who abandoned
bethink may seek to alarm the men who achievement by advertisement
the resemblance.

But unless they can appearance that all the affairs are identical,
they accept no appropriate to affect the morning with their afterglow
fears.

History insensibly modifies her plan to defended the best of advance with the minimum of catastrophes,
and she repels the brassy allegation that her accouchement win all their beginning advantages
at the amount of the old crimes.
The adventure of Hayti is account telling, afar from its address aloft
questions affiliated with the capitalism of slaves.

It is a arresting almanac of the abasement of accomplished contest and the acclivity of inferior
ones, and shows with what affluence Nature can alteration her acceptable credibility from her
able accouchement and accidentally accord with them her abandoned ones,--thus affording us a adumbration
of something that is added abiding and irreversible than ethnological distinctions, by repeating
aural our own time her accommodating way with her old barbarians whose hair was long. From them
sprang the contest which never could accept bedeviled by cunning
and force alone, and which accept to lay down their ascendancy if
they accept beat aggregate but force and cunning.

 

The Hawthorne tree of England is beautiful when in full bloom. the
blossoms are of delicate coloring, and highly scented, sweetly.

When the Hawthorne begins blooming, people of the country call it 'the may.' With all the beauty
and sweetness of scent, the Hawthorne still seems to send a warning, 'Do not come too close
to me.

'
 The Mormons desired statehood. They lied, promised, and displayed the pretense of purity
to convince others to bring about this statehood. In Utah, the gentiles exerted themselves to a
similar end, and made pacts in exchange for Mormom's good behavior.

Finally, Utah became a state.

The Mormoms breathed a sigh of relief, as they had escaped the Edmund's statute, which was like a
sword above heads. The State of Utah still had laws against plural marriage, and promised to
punish convicted bigamists.

This was the price of statehood. But the Morman criminals, the Smiths, Lymans, Tanners, and Cluffs,
were not afraid. They now held the reigns of power, and made sure to forge ahead carefully,
without upsetting anyone.

Now that Utah was a state, the Mormon Church got into politics even deeper than before. There were
now three main political parties in Utah - the Republicans, the Democrats,
and the Mormoms.

The Gentiles were either Democrats or Republicans. The Mormons were never anything but Mormons,
voting on this side or on that side, for one man or another, whichever way dictated the Mormon
interest best, and as the Mormon President and apostles decided. Every Mormon who had a vote
occupied two positions: He was a Mormon in religion, and a Mormon
politically.

In that way, every office was filled by a Mormon, or with a Gentile
who could be blind to Mormon qualities.

Today a bigamist in Utah has no more to fear from the law than a casino operater in the city
of New York.

The Mormon conspiracy began in the year of the Edmunds law and the drastic enforcement of this
law.

That was a black day for Mormons, and the Mormon church resolved to secure a foothold in government,
with representation in Congress in Washington, holding a balance
of power in the Senate or the House, or both. The Congressional Democrats
or Republicans would grant the Mormons safety of their tenet of polygamy,
in exchange for their support in government. The Mormans determined
to acquire similar politcal power in other states. Carlyle's persepctive on the new economic English system
was that it was based in superficiality. He thought that the new system lacked the class, substance,
and reliability of the old. He believed that the new system also needed the detail and conscientousness
found in the older outlook of working. Carlyle took these changes very seriously, and did
not believe that such changes were simply products of changing times. Instead, he believed that
the values of individuals had changed for the worse; and that the former principals were value-laden,
but the latter were not.

Carlyle's view on spirituality and morality was black and white, and
his lectures are fraught with very extreme examples.

His perspective stems from condoning violence, and was often accused of this by many. However,
Carlyle insisted that he was misunderstood, and simply believed that
good conquered evil and that truth will always win in the end.

He believed that the Christian faith was rather weak and faulty,
but that the truth would always win. Whenever the owner
got sick or died, nobody knew where the stash was hidden, and that
meant all the money was gone, and the family couldn't pay the bills.

In March 1825, a man named Frederick Hagedom Jr., from Libau, that's
in Courland, came up with the idea for savings accounts in other European
countries, and he figured this was better than the old way of doing
things, hiding the stash, crossing your fingers and hoping for the
best.

He decided to start his own bank in Libau.
 They loved this world and
demonstrated how poetry and thought could be valuable to it.

Seeing the world through poetic imagination, which is the only way
to see reality, is what the great minds have left us.

Such was the gift of Branger and great artists of light such as Titian, Tintoretto, Coreggio,
Raphael, Rubens, and Watteau.

These artists gave us the poetic meaning of truth. 

I stayed at my school during the vaction to catch up on some old books. Quickly I was able to
tell Millington that when he got back that he could meet Julia and
her family.

He was quite happy about this as she was the object of his desire.. 

FOURTH PALLBEARER

I barely know what to make of this.

FIFTH PALLBEARER

Well, I have said before, you never know who is going to be next.

SIXTH PALLBEARER

That's a lie, did you think that it would have been him?

FIRST PALLBEARER

I would never hav guessed that he would be the one.

SECOND PALLBEARER

I wouldn't have thought that it would be my brother, John.

THIRD PALLBEARER

There is nothing that we can do to change it.

FOURTH PALLBEARER

Well, it doesn't do any good to fight it, every man has his day and
when his time is up, it is up.

FIFTH PALLBEARER

It could have been any one of us.

SIXTH PALLBEARER

I am sure grateful for every day that we have.

FIRST
PALLBEARER

I agree, I am sure feeling thankful. 

SECOND PALLBEARER

There
is nothing that we could have done for him to change things.

THIRD
PALLBEARER

Yes, life is short.

FOURTH PALLBEARER

It still does
not make it any easier to accept.

FIFTH PALLBEARER

It is going to
be the hardest on her, though. 

SIXTH PALLBEARER

Yes, but of all
of us, why did it have to be him? 

FIRST PALLBEARER

No one will
ever know why these things happen.

SECOND PALLBEARER

I guess we
never will. 

THIRD PALLBEARER

Yes, I once asked a minister about
it and he was not able to give me an answer either. 

FOURTH PALLBEARER

I
just don't understand, the more I think about it the less I understand
it. 

FIFTH PALLBEARER

Last time I ran into him, which was Wednesday,
I had no idea that this was going to happen. 

SIXTH PALLBEARER

If
I were to die, that is the way that I would want to go. 

FIRST PALLBEARER

I
agree with you, that's the way to go. 

SECOND PALLBEARER

I agree
with both of you. If you are going to have to die, why would you want
to be sick for a long time, wasting money. What good would that have
been? 

THIRD PALLBEARER

I agree, better to get it over with. 

FOURTH
PALLBEARER

When I heard that he had died suddenly, that is what I
said to my wife, better quickly than laying around sick for a long
time. 

FIFTH PALLBEARER

Yes, but who would have thought that he
would be the next one to go? 

SIXTH PALLBEARER

It is juts one of
those things that you will never know.

FIRST PALLBEARER

Yep, you
just never know who is going to be next. 

SECOND PALLBEARER

It's
a good thing that you don't know who will be next. 

THIRD PALLBEARER

You
are right, I don't think that I would want to know. 

FOURTH PALLBEARER

My
Grandfather used to always say that you never know when your day is
coming. 

FIFTH PALLBEARER

Yes, nothing we can do about it. 

SIXTH
PALLBEARER

First him, then who knows who will be next. 

FIRST PALLBEARER

Yes,
who knows. 

SECOND PALLBEARER

Well, you know the old saying: Here
today - 

THIRD PALLBEARER

(with a laugh) - gone tomorrow. Altogether these
works cost him almost £10,000 and he wrote a lot of small papers as well. Fortunately all
of this hard work resulted in him receiving the Wollaston medal from the Geological Society
in London in 1855 in gratitude for his contribution to the field. The god Terminus
is held in no respect. No Greek, from the highest to the lowest, understands the meaning of that
absolute right of properly "which", as Blackstone says, "consists
in the free use, enjoyment, and disposal by every English of all his
acquistions, without control or diminution, save only by the lawa
of the land."

The appropriation of Mr.Finly's land by King Otho, without measuremant, evaluation, or payment,
to make a garden for his palace--the formation of a great road leading to the French minister's
house, by the municipality of Athens, without indemnifying the owmers of the land. through a
road sufficiently good already existed-- and the confiscation of half the estates purchased by foreigners
from the Turks by Maurocodatos, when Minister of finace under the
Bavarian Regency, in a ministerial circular deciding on rights of
property, are mere trifiling examples of the iniveral spirit.

When Manurocordatos wrote his memorable declaration, "that every spot where wild herbs, fit for
the pasturage of cattle, grow, is national property, and that the Greek government recognises
no individual property in the soil except the exclusive fight of cultivation," he only, in
deference to the Bavarian policy of the time, which wished to copy Mohammed Alis's administration
in Egypt, caricated a misconception of the right of property equally strong in every Greek,
wheather he be the oppressor or the oppressed.

Even the late National Assembly has not throught it necessery to correct any of the invasions
of private property by the preceding despotism. Individuals, almost ruined by the plunder of
their land, have not even received the offer of an indeminity, though the justice of their claims
is not denied. (C)
The orgin of this national obtuseness of mind on a question of interest,
is to be found in the system of taxing the land.

A Greek really views land somewhat as English labourers view game. The owner of the soil is
absolute proprietor only during those months in which he is engaged
in the labours of preparing the land sowing the seed.

As soon as the harvest time arrives, he ceases to master of his estate, and sinks into the
condition of a serf of the revenue officer, or of the farmer of the land revenue. It is true,
that the government tax only amounts to a tenth of the gross produce of the soil; but, in virtue
of this right to a tenth, government ssumes the entire sirection of all the agricultural operations
relating to the crops, and cultivator's nine-trenths (for it is really a misnomer to call him properietor)
become a mere adjunct of the government tenth.
Many of our readers, who are unacquainted with Eastern life, amny suppose that we colour picture
too strongly. In order, therefore, to divest our statement of all ornament, we shall describe
the whole of the events of an agricultural year.
 The Flatterer is an insincere associate clothed in the clothing of a
natural unexampled. He speaks lexis from an appalling empathy through pleasing lips. His eyesight
shape to see only style and verisimilitude, and his drivel pours out streams of satisfied praises.
He is enamored of your trait, and your boss slant orders his solicitude. You have no appraiser
which he may straight, or neglect which he may reproach. The last hurrah opportunity he met you
in concussion, your behavior rapturous him afar action; and although you parody it not, ultimately
he experimental how all perceiving were brightened by determining you. If you annex a judgment
of authority wherefore you can keep a tendency which he requires,
you are "most tolerant, secure, and shot."

His titles are all in the, a-1, and his addresses strong of surprise interjections. His doer is
more to delight than to lay open the veracity. His prowess is extinction but ducky guile by
part of smoothing speaking and content looks. He would make femininity fools by thought them
to overvalue their abilities. Those who traipse in the valley of feeling amid the hesitant flowers
of fortitude and favored with the ghost of the Divine Peerless, he would brighten into the
Defect less spot of conceit and find, that they might dive into the
denunciation of the Daemon.

He gathers all soft touch opinions and favorable sentiments that he might corner them to his
prey, down love in drag and interject during their odyssey. He is suit generic of Connection’s
peculiar links, bit to feather her with some of her strongest and richest rumors. Nevertheless
sorrow has not a higher quality enemy; for when it comes spread to
do its ball breaker in accusation or rebuke, he expects its racket,
and bribes her with ingratiating nonsense.

Like the chameleon, he changes his arrival to technique his agency.
 

First evaporate, on a water-bath in a well ventilated area, but finish it with a Bunsen flame,
using high temperature at the end in order to decompose the double
cyanides.

Allow time for it to cool down.

Dampen it with strong hydrochloric acid; warm it with a little water
and test for metals in solution by ordinary methods.

Since metals likely to be present may be given in milligrams the work must be done with care.
It could be worth it to determine the lime and magnesia proportion as well as of that of metal.

Or the 20c.c of cyanide liquor may evaporate with 5c.c of strong nitric acid to dryness and
gently ignited and the residue taken with 2 or 3c.c of hydrochloric
acid. 

"Fair enough", the answer came. "I'm fine with that," responded Heureaux, "because, Old Chap,
I am going to pass you to the firing squad. Have a cigarillo," he chirped affably, "I hear you'll
be quitting soon." And I was, of course, because they didn't waste any time hauling me to the
nearest wall.

Another time, I hear told, after he was elected president, a celebrated general came to dinner
and post-repast, the two of them took a little hike.

When they had reached a spot on the outskirts of town where laborers
were excavating for what appeared to be a smallish trench, the officer
queried, "What are these men spading up for in this venue?"

"They are preparing your eternal resting place," replied Heureaux,
and while the general was recovering from the shock, a troop of hessians
marched in seemingly from nowhere.

They proceeded to discharge projectiles into the man, and then, to ensepulcher same in the prepared
grave.

The governor of Macoris and the War Minister both carried a lot of
weight politically, and their leverage put the butterflies into Heureaux's
gullet.

So the creep pitted the latter against the former in a trumped up kerfuffle with such success
that early one morning, the minister unexpectedly turned up in Macoris
and made brisk arrangements to have the governor pierced forthwith
by lead in a manner not beneficial to his health.

The governor's pals raised the alarm, while Heureaux made a sham
of being incensed by the happenstance, gave the minister a bit of
his own medicine, fatally so.

Various and sundry of the detainees in his charge vanished cryptically, and the gossip going
round was that one of the lower levels of the fort "La Fuerza," where an aguacate tree had previously
sent down roots, was the secret spot on which the blood of prisoners was violently spilt for
their expiration in the velvety lightlessness of the later hours, after which their husks were delivered
as a midnight snack to the sharks hanging out at the foot of the
escarpment.

Others of those who had fallen under the suspicion of the despot were bumped off where they
stood on public infrastructure.

Even those who suffered banishment could not be sure that the Thug Prince's guns were too
far to reach their corpi.

Take for instance the case of the Dominican author, Eugenio Deschamps,
who had been publishing tracts of a not so supportive nature re:Heurveaux
in Porto Rico (as opposed to say, Puerto Rico), was grieviously damaged
bodily on the avenues of Ponce by a hit man's rounds.

Resourcefulness and malfeasance, guts and sadistic proclivity, doggedness and sneakiness were
blended into the personality of Heureaux.

He ruled his nation like a king, with absolute authority.

He was the seed from which all government sprung, and the secret head of every governmental
office. The ledgers of the government and his personal accounts were handled by him as synonymous.
His determination to retain power was such that he had to spend buckets of money which he got
by arranging for imprudent loans from sources outside the country, and through penurious obligations
with local businesspeople.

Those whom Heureaux was pals with would end up rolling in dough; however, if you got on his wrong
side, he would make sure you ended up very poor.

Furthermore, he could find other ways to be morally questionable, and a lonely village celebrated
the nicety of being the only municipality in the Republic to not
play host to one of the president's kept women.

Heureaux admitted that he could care less what the history books
would say of him, since he didn't plan to stick around to read them.

Towards the end of the man's regime, several opposition leaders emerged: Juan Isidro Jimenez and
Horacio Vasquez. The latter was the head of a sizable, propertied
family of the Cibao.

Jiminez formerly had been a distinguished retailing honcho, having
at one time maintained mercantile firms in Monte Cristi, New York,
Paris, and Hamburg.

His family had used to be influential in Dominican office functions,
his father even had served as president of the Republic in 1848, and
his grandfather had been one of the motivating  spirits of the uprising
that overturned Haitian bondage.

 One could posit that the pressure
exerted by wind is not soley proportional to the amount of surface exposed. Pressure plates
in general aren't large, ranging from 1/2 to 1/4 sf to three sf.

They can be oblong or eliptical. For a flat surface, and for oblong and eliptical shapes, the formula
P-.003v^2 is accurate to an acceptable degree.
In general, the pressure is what is being measured in the in the anemometer, though usually the
scale is graduated as in a velocity scale.
 She should be a
free state and there would be no other State to offset it with bondsmen.

Herself it was finaly decided to leave the choice to California.

Henry Clay had came again at hand of effect a compromise with satisfactory.

In a previous paper i went through the Fugitive Law, whereby runaway bondsmen were captured
and sent back to their owners, but before the war a wave had begun to flood the country. By the power
of tongue, pen and printing press some people are endeavored to stir
up the pitch of fanatical desperation.

The bondsmen to revolt against their masters. It was not for the sake of the Union.
 The prisoner requested that a magistrate be granted time with him so that he may deliver
an affidavit, a legal maneuver he resorted to in hopes of being released. Arbuckle wanted
to know the general's wishes on this plea. He was impatient and naturally
lacking self control. The thought of a higher power working against
his actions threw Jackson into an emotional rage. RECOGNISING.
Usual form of confirmation (and very graceful, it is) is done as follows: - On being hit, spring out,
body and feet together with heels, bring your sword while to recover, or sword in an upright
position the face, thumb in line with your mouth, and knuckles outwards.
Confirmation should be only a matter of seconds, and when the player was supposed to come back
to the Guard and commitment to continue fighting.

Fault hits.
Certainly there are occasions where the best player can not help make a foul hit. When this
happens there is nothing to do but apologize, but most of these hits can be avoided with a
little care and control of temper. A mistake is meant to hit your opponent dealt a blow that
has a shot at him - gave a positive result, not as an attempt to
"time", but instead of a guardian and, as a matter in fact, very often
given the blow "for" blow principle.

This course is a great nonsense, assume, as should you, that weapons are clear when such exchanges
would be a bit more severe punishment than even avid veriest would take care of.
If you only want to see who can stand the hammering, with an ash-plant,
then your pads are a mistake and a waste of time. Ten minutes, but
will do more to address this question than an hour with them. 

However the change is proposed, it will be considered. Few points of, Sir Robert Peel is considered;
now we shall proceed for review of seriatim. Here let us regard them with a view to its nature;
as to its necessity existing circumstances.  We agree to that, The Premier states that have
had great changes. A produces a measure, which maintains within itself a provision, that within
three years agricultural industry shall be left without any safety at all, that in the interim
mode of protection will not changed, but reduced, as prodigious change. Here, the calculated point
to affect, agriculture directly and home consumption of manufactures
indirectly; decrease the price of bread, which is a un necessary change,
we shall introduce foreign grains, henceforth to reduce the profits
of one the three category’s, the landlord, the tenant, or the laborers,
manufactures considers, which categories of these has been consumed,
with greater part of their production.

It’s distinctly adverse to the fact that the agricultural interest, which we cannot understand
to a measure, can be at once critical and disadvantageous to a particular party. How the corn
produced can be profited by the reduction of the value to the article, which they raise, unless
the reduction of the prices of food is consumed by them is taken as an equivalent. Possibly
this is what here means. Then only, it refines the nature of the principle, and which holds good
to many instances.

Applied to the manufacturers; gets informed that, by deducting the cost of his cottons one-half,
they will be exactly compensated, because in this event, the shirts
will cost him, a half of the available prices, and his family is for
the purpose of restraining luxury or extravagance.

His followed with immediate answer: "By no means. Manufacturing is not for me but to others.
We deal on a higher scale. To supply around thousand customers; achieve the profit I derive
from them is infinitely greater then the saving. The company could affect, the reducing price,
which should be consumed at home." The first point is purely untenable. Therefore, conclusion is,
all events that some direct loss possibly be under the operation of the new scheme, command
upon the agricultural classes; due to this some moment to know how these losses has to be supplied.
For the opening statement of Sir Robert Peel shall be considered as we find it; here he informs
us that in both the classes, the agriculturists and the manufacturers
have to sacrifices.

Now, these three words prove to be the germ of a utter importance--nay paramount—consideration
to which we would part have explained, before we go any further. According to our ideas on
words, a loss is to sacrifice, which is exceptional in this case
of deliberate destruction, means, a corresponding gain to a third
party.

Then, here we shall try to discover who the gainer will be. Will it be the state, the British public
revenue? Distinctly No; for a while, on one side, the corn taxes are abolished, on the other
half the tariff is relaxed. The sacrifice is a mutual one--that is, as the agriculturist is
compensated by cheaper home manufactures, and the manufacturer to be compensated by cheaper home-grown
bread? No, here the benefit is to either class, which springs from no such source. The duties on
one side are abolished, on the half relaxed, in other words, the agriculturist will get cheap
foreign manufactures, and the manufacturer gets cheap foreign grain. As said, If there has to
be a sacrifice upon both sides, as most clearly mentioned earlier, it just counts to this, the
interchange between the classes at home is to be closed, and the foreign markets opened for the
great sources of supply.  Having brought the case of "mutual sacrifices" so far, there is
one of our members, who do not see a rank absurdity, in the attempt
to initiate, that the compensation is given to the laborer?

This count has a meaning; it is framed with a view of profiting the manufacturing interest,
with reference to the expenses to others. Total abolition of protective duties within the country
must, reduce the price of corn and these are the smallest of the
evils we anticipate; for an evil it is, the effect of it will be to
reduce the laborer’s wages then it must also reflect to throw land
out of cultivation.

But will this effect the relaxation of the tariffs?

 As they quit the trenches to move forward into the open, they laughed and joked with one
another. The enemy's position had been taken by evening. Seen bursting in front of the French
troops are shrapnel and high-explosive 15-c.m. shells from German howitzers. Heavy position-batteries
fo howitzers are the weapons Germans prefer for such work although they also use other guns of
the same caliber.

46-THE ILLUSTRATED WAR NEWS, NOV. 18, 1914
German bombardment has badly damaged Nieuport and it appears that half the houses have been
struck by shells. However, it has not suffered as much ruin as some of the surrounding villages.

The church was one of the worst losses at Nieuport. Photographs show that it has been almost
completely demolished. Walls and pillars stand bare, and the roof
and tower lie buried amid the wreckage on the ground.

With its twelfth-century Gothic windows, it was one of the finest examples of stone churches found
in that part of the country.

Fighting continued at Nieuport after the German's attack shifted south to Ypres. [Photo by C.N.]

THE ILLUSTRATED WAR NEWS, NOV. 18, 1914-47
To be pitied are the inhabitants of those parts of France and Belgium that are still groaning
under the German incubus. Byeond the agony inflicted by the invaders in the form of house-burnings
and executions is the intolerable misery to be borne by unfortunate householders who must feed
and house the enemy soldiers.
Some idea of the infliction to which they are subjected can be gathered from this reproduced
drawing.

It portrays officers of the motor-corps of the Nineteenth Germany Army Corps asleep in a house
upon which they have descended.
The drawing is by a German artist. 
48 -- THE ILLUSTRATED WAR NEWS,
NOV. 18, 1914 
Hard fighting on the Yser and West Flanders has fallen
to the Naval Brigade made up of French bluejackets. They are a strong
force brought up from best to defensively reinforce the Belgians near
the coast after the retreat from Antwerp. 
Side by side with the
British, their attack took Ypres on October 13 and then they held
Dixmude for weeks. "The Kaiser," according to an American who recently
visited the Imperial headquaters in a "small city" on the Meuse, has
changed his appearance a great deal. 

Females are also recognized to be some of the best writers, and you will find the same names
from literature in renown newspapers. 
Dominican writers are found
to surpass others in lyric poetry as they are able to use the Castilian
prose to express great feeling. Of these the 5,500,000
public living in the state shattered by the Mississippi and the other streams which plunge into
the Gulf of Mexico, export about $17,800,000 worth of possessions in 1830, a per capita price of fewer
than $4. And most of this excess output came from the fiber counties of the minor South, where
only a little percentage of the inhabitants of the West dwelt. Still, the herds of cattle and
droves of swine that were ambitious southward to the fiber community or over the mountain to Eastern
city, and the big quantities of little bit which, after 1825, create its way to market throughout the
Erie Canal, added deeply to and possibly double the takings of the West from exports down the
Mississippi.

When all is told, though, these inaccessible people were in the main very poor, as the narratives
of travelers and the journal of preachers attest on each sheet.
Yet each year additional thousands to the facts of Eastern men who
migrate West to like some of the autonomy of a area where manor were
shameful and the societal life eccentric; every decade additional
new voices and capable best to the Western group in Congress, who
clamor constantly for the performance of law aimed at the rapid enlargement
of that part.

New England, where the rise of business town necessitate an growing digit of laborer, took
fright, or had never cease to be worried, at the westward movement of population; and Eastern members
of Congress, under one pretext or another, opposed every demand which
came up from the West, every petition of the "squatters" on the public
domain.

In the Middle state the structure of frequent canals, turnpikes, and railways called for both skilled
and unskilled laborers. But if everybody ran off to the West when wages were unsatisfactory, this
improvement could not be made and the old community would pine away and irritate
Virginia and the South were less troubled at the enlargement of the West, since of their scheme
of slavery, and because the votes of the new States could be relied on to carry Virginian and
Southern policy in Congress--a legacy of the old Jeffersonian alliance
of the South with the near the beginning West; and also because of
the alike financial and communal life of the two section.

But even the Old authority in the sore financial distress of the late twenties, due in the main
to the abandonment of her tobacco-fields and workshops by thousands of her most energetic sons,
who went to the rich fiber country, wavered in her loyalty to the younger States of the West.
John Randolph ridiculed in merciless fashion the "sharp-witted" Westerners, whom he would avoid
in the thoroughfare as "one would a pickpocket"; and in both the
Carolinas there was a terror and a trepidation of the mounting West,
whose principles were too Jeffersonian and whose authority waxed better
with the transient years.

Yet Calhoun, Hayne, and extra able Southerners remained true to the
new expanse and supported Benton in his debates with Foote and Webster
in 1830, maybe because the entire Jackson program of 1829 was based
upon the grouping of these services in the national life.

If the political tactics of the Western men of 1830 were determined
and extensive, the lives of the astute pioneer were easy, hard, and
fine.

The men wore coats when the climate was cold, and found shoes additional
of a irritation than a reassure during half the year; and the women
rejoiced if they customary a "store" fedora once in two years.

Wants were few and the yearly apiece capita expenditure past what was fashioned at home was not
often as great as $10. Peter Cartwright count himself rich when he cultured that the Methodist
yearly consultation to which he belong had added $12 to his standard salary of $100 a time.
Most men, counting the clergy, owned or borrowed farm and follow the
plow up in period, while wives and children did outside job from dawn
till nighttime.

Houses were build by the aid of neighbors in a only day, and additional accommodation were unprepared
by the thoughtful lynching of quilts and finished.

A gate in frontage and an extra in the rear permitted abundance of clean air, although the large
crevice between the logs typically rendered this surplus. Floors were made of logs split in
halves and laid "with backs downward."

Beds and chairs were home-made and especially intended for the use of the older members of the
family, boys and girls compliant themselves with stools or blocks of wood sawed for the idea. Meals
were ready in a few moments at the great fireside, where a huge crane
aided the mother in fluctuation her kettles on or off the blazing
fire.

In every pompous home there was a loom for the weaving of fiber and woolen material for family
or district consumption; and late at night the steady thump of the beam proclaim the industry
of the hectic housewife as she put in the last clothes of her "fifth"
or "sixth yard."

 

There are many Roman fibulæ (a type of brooch) and bracelets discovered
at Treves, and some excavated at England.

There are many Roman artifacts, which have been discovered at Hoy Lake close to Liverpool
 After passing through vast
tracts of land without a single division, this country was very much enclosed. Within the country, I observed
very large quantities of what the French call bled noir or sarazin.
I, however, call it buck wheat.

 

This information hit me as had as a blow to the head would have. My whole body shivered, but
I didn't show my sorrow. I repressed it forcefully, knowing that
my tears wouldn't even touch my grief at the loss of Sir Alexander
Ball. 

If God willed it,yes,said Aunt Betsey,who,how ever,was away from cheerful. By this ,they pushed
opened the door and the delicious smell of cooking greeted them. "Hi,Uncle Jake,what you
think of this?What`s the meaning of all this?said Aunt Betsey Lightning forked through the tiny window,
invading the room with the stench of sulphur. A terrible roar of thunder came at once after;
the cottage shivered; and a timber broke outside.
"Hallo, the cabin!" shouted the inebriated fellow; "Satan is around
us; and our comrades have not arrived!" Knights of Arms are dubbed knights, here as Knights
of the Shield are made knights by commonwealths or princes.

This distinction was not thoroughly maintained by Italy, though vibrant with feudal chivalry.
For example, Messer Francesco Bandinelli was a Cavaliere di Corredo, still he has taken the
bath. Italians lent themselves elegant elements of chivalry to pageant and parade. Motto of
the institution and meaning of various ceremonies were neglected by them.
Through the forthcoming passages I have tried to illustrate from history of Siena because Folgore represents
Sienese society as the pioneer of mediæval culture. This is surely a preamble to Folgore's five
sonnets.

Preparation made by the aspirant after knighthood is described in
the first series.

To honour chivalry funds are raised by mortgaging to furnish the banquets and presents. He
also provides provision of equipment himself and all his train. Very significant is that Folgore
is there only for merry aspects of ceremony. In the first decade of the fourteenth century religious
enthusiasm of knighthood has disappeared, only spirit of Jehan de Saintrè prevailed in Italy.
I have translated squire, because the donzel was a youth of gentle birth awaiting knighthood,
the word donzello is derived from Latin.
A young squire shall be made a knight this morning, therefore to furnish suitably the strong man
lands and castles will be mortgaged. Rich food will be served by servants to all around in the
Choice chambers, torches and large number of Barbed steeds are in his thought. The noble company
were intimated. Arms, clothes etc were repaired. Musicians followed by jokers, beautiful ladies
etc assembled.
after introducing the subject Folgore expresses ceremony of investing with suitable preference of
images to ideas. Each of the four following sonnets presents a admirable
picture to the mind for its artistic dealing.

We may imagine ourselves the happenings in the chamber. The aspirant, the recent converted to the belief
is nude to express the internal wholeness and no wicked feelings.
Lo Prowess instructs the aspirant to be naked and to obey, to join the fellowship leave the past. To
equip afresh hard work afresh. When she see him naked she takes him within her hands and say
that she accept him, whom she got by her prayer and accept me as gift so that your future will
shine and prosper After courage modesty is the knightly quality, which Italians see as humility.
But is a quality making men stronger to win favors and pleasing.

Motto of the great Borromeo family--Humilitas is expressed in Gothic letters underneath the
coronet upon their princely palace fronts. Folgore's sonnet enables us to understand this motto.

He without humility told her that he will guide and she has wash to
clean and will be my darling, my initiative may be followed. However, he was delighted of his decision to spend the evening alone. His father's
letter had come at exactly the right moment; to some degree the letter reduced the worry caused
by his brother Daniel's talk this morning. His father, Jerome Otway had put pen to paper and
wrote in his usual brief fashion, upon the large letter-paper he
always used; his daring hand, full of a certain character, demanded
space.

He began his letter with congratulations to Piers on the completion of his one-and-twentieth
year.

"I am late, but had not forgotten the significance of this day; it takes a great deal effort for
me to put pen to paper, as you know." Proceeding this, Jerome informed his son that a sum of
money, a few hundred pounds, had become payable to him on the success of his majority. "It
was your mother's, and it was also her heart felt desire that you should have it. There will
be an attorney contacting you in order to communicate with you about the matter. If you so
desire, you can and should speak with me about this matter, the choice
is yours.

If you so desire, I will make myself available to advise you; if this is not your desire, I will
keep silence and never speak of it again." Jerome followed this with a few brief words about
the beauty of spring in the moorland; then: "Your ordeal approaches.

A farce, I fear, but the wisdom of our day will have it thus.

It is my heart felt desire that you success. If you should stumble and fall short of your hopes, come
to me and I will make myself available to you so that we may speak
of this matter once more.

What ever should befall you, I will always and forever, to the very
end your father who always wishes you well."

The signature Jerome Otway was scrolled out quite large, and might have drawn censure of affectation
from the unsympathetic. As, indeed, might the entire letter: as usual it was very significant of
the mind set and temperaments of Jerome Otway.

To Piers, the fashion was far too familiar to suggest any type of reflections moreover, he had
a devoted mind towards his father, and never criticized his father’s dealing with him. The
proof of Daniel's report about the legacy concerned him little; he had no urgent need for the money,
and such a small sum would not affect the path of his life; but, this being true, it seemed feasible
that Daniel's other piece of information was by the same token, well founded. If so, what
would it matter? He had already asked himself why the story about his mother should have caused him
such shock. His father, in all probability, would never speak of that; and, undeniably, why
should he? The story no longer had an affect on either of them, and to worry oneself about it was mere "philistinism,"
or common place, a favorite term with Piers at that day.

In replying to his father’s letter, which Piers did this same night, he made the decision
to make no mention of Daniel. For the mere mention of Daniel’s name would give his father
absolutely no pleasure.

When he rang for Mrs.’ Hannaford to have his tea-things taken away, she quickly presented
herself. She made a show of great concern about him. Why had he not come to dinner? She wanted
so much for him to make the acquaintance of Miss Derwent, whose company
was sure to interest him.

Piers complained of his headache, which would have caused the lady more worry. She earnestly asked
as he could not work, that it would be much better for him to spend
an hour or two in company with Miss Derwent if he would do this just
to please her.?

Mrs. Hannaford, as always, spoke in a soft, caressing voice, and Piers returned her gaze of
kindness; yet remained firm. A great affection had grown up between these two; throughout their
association, though they rarely spoke long together, it was much like that of mother and son.
 The aforementioned represents unknown stages in the
development of Indian dialects up to that point. Some of the dialects are closely related to the language
of Aśoka's messages. Another text written in Prâkrit is a versio nof the Dharmapada written
in Kharoshṭhî characters. It was discovered by the Dutreuil de
Rhins mission near Khotan.

There are many official documents in this language that have been found in the region of Khotan.
It is possible that they existed during the same time as the Kushan dynasty in India. The use
of Sanskrit in Central Asia signifies that the similarities between the two countries is not
only a result of the introduction of the Buddhist religion. In this piece of writing, it has been proposed
to indicate a means of usefulness, that is, that of an amateur organ
resonating through our church.

It is hardly required to indicate such a wide field of necessary work is up for grabs to amateurs
in this area. 

Oh that we may be competent perpetually to do the same!"

"Remember the priming-knife," he declares to another, "and do not let your vine run to wood."
And after a visit to Mr. Thornton of Milnathort, in whose parish there had been an awakening,
he requests a male kin, "Mr. Thornton is keen that other people be blessed more than himself;
do you consider that you have that grace? I find that I am not ever so winning as when I can
lie at Christ's feet, keen to be employed or not as seemeth good in his sight. Do you consider
David? 'If the Lord declare, I have no enjoyment in thee; behold,
here am I; let Him do to me as seemeth good unto Him.'"

In his very apparent messages, as in his life, there was the manifestation
of a radiant, lighthearted soul, without the slightest leaning to
to levity.

When his medicinal employee had, on one function, fallen any remuneration, Mr. M'Cheyne peremptorily
resisted his purpose; and to subdue his reluctance, returned the inclosure in a message, in
which he employed his poetical treats with most agreeable humor.
To more it was a subject of surprise that he encountered time to draft messages that perpetually
inhaled air the label of Jesus, in the midst of his innumerable engagements.

But the certainty was, his messages cost him no expenditure of time;
they were ever the novel thoughts and emotions of his soul at the
time he took up the pen; his usual perimeter of soul is what becomes
noticeable in them all; the composed, holy, tenderly affectionate
approach of his messages recollects us of Samuel Rutherford, whose
works he enthralled to read,--excepting only that his pleasure not
ever looks like to have got higher to ecstasies.

The collection of his messages which I have made for publication, may show in public to some
extent of his holy talent in letting depart a remark for his Master on all occasions. But what
instilled more yet more, was his fashion of ushering in the certainty, most in a natural manner
and strikingly, even in the shortest note he penned; and there was a thing so exquisite, as
well as grave, in his small number remarks at the close of some of his messages, that these waited
deep in the receiver's heart. Writing to Mr. G.S., on July 28, 1841, he hence depicts to a close:
"Remember me to H.T. I request he may be kept abiding in Christ.

Kindest views to his mother.

Keep your own heart, very highly charge male kin, 'in the love of God' (Jude 21)--in his love
to you, and that will draw your love to Him

.
 

In addition, the Salme from Königliches Opernhaus, two young girls (who could be under 18 years old)
were enjoyin their meal and Rhenish wine. The fearless girls were alone in there.
 Surely, Earth's governments had created their own terrible weapons.

We watched, breathless.
The pencils with green light no longer posed a danger to our world which now appeared to be
far away. The great ring with the empty space in its rim wabbled with uncertainty for a few seconds
as though it was upset from within and being torn apart. Then it went directly for the Pioneer.
We were watched.

But Hart was up for the moment and he shot the Pioneer toward the
earth at such speed that we all were flattened to our supports with
the exact same violence. Then we had an equally violent deceleration. When she received the
telegraph, she was not expecting it to be from James.

He had not called or sent anything before. She opened the envelope and saw the signature of
James Morehouse, She did not know why he would be sending her anything. Inside the envelope
she read,"While flying today the airplane fell in ocean near Sardinia. Pilot was killed and
co-pilot injured. Sorry to be brief, wished to inform you before
word got out."

Oddly, this did not concern her. It was as if she was reading about a virtual stranger.  She
suddenly noticed that a hotel worker was watching her appraisingly. When he inquired as to if she
was okay, she responded that she was just surprised, but was fine.
He asked,"Can I do anything for you?"  To which she replied, " I am fine. I am just going to head
to my room."
Once she could get her mind functioning, she realized that she should send her letter to Nick,
even though it was not quite done.

She could jot a quick note at the end (but not mention the pansies.) And maybe she should
even enclose the telegram. But instead, she did nothing. A couple of days later she did send
off the long letter, but changed nothing about it. She just waited, not knowing what was to
come next.

She even avoided reading the papers, despite the fact that the incident would be of public interest
and would be prominently mentioned in the news.
She received another telegram on the third day. The familiar name at the bottom brought her back
to life. It read,"I know what happened. When can I come to you?"

She noticed that he wanted to know when he could come, not if he was allowed to come. While
before she would have thought this a bad idea, now it seemed perfectly
right.

She wanted to send and tell him to come immediately, and that was what he would have wished for
as well. But, she thought better, and told him to wait. She did not want to see him until she
had a place of her own for him to come to. Until then, he would be in her thoughts.
Mrs. May was very concerned about her home being done quickly.

She wanted the house and grounds completed as soon as possible. Her architect thought this was cute.
With her seemingly limitless supply of money, she could afford to
have crews of men working around the clock to finish her home.

She had even selected fine wooden furniture from San Francisco.

She begged the architect to have everything done by Christmas Eve
dinner in her home.

She had not had a happy Christmas Eve since Franklin Merriam died.

The architect agreed, much as one would agree to a child making a Christmas wish. In her joy,
she finally wrote to Nick, telling him of the housewarming party
that she had planned.

She was including five people, with her NIck being the quest of honor.

Her other invitees were Mr. Falconer and his wife, Miss WIlkin's,
who had taught Nick at Lucky Star, Miss WIlkins and Mrs. Harland.

While she was overjoyed about the party, Nick was not concerned. He was only interested in her
acquaintance. But, he knew, she was only trying to make sure he had a good time as well. She
finally allowed him to arrive early and in making this concession,
made him very happy to get his precious time alone with her, without
disappointing the other quests.

He was the first to see the gorgeous new house, the one designed to look like the Mission Inn,
the place where they first began to discuss their future.

When they were at last reunited, they could barely even speak,
their hearts being too full of love for one another.

He did not ask her to marry him, and she did not have to tell him
that now she was able to spend the rest of her life with him.

These things were unspoken. When the other guests arrived, Angela was able to have her happy
Christmas Eve and inform her guests that she was now engaged to the greatest man in the world
and she could not be happier.
 Therefore
no blazonry, no missions (tending to serve as unequaled recreancy for another) but only mitzvah
and quietness are prerequisite for the kill of those very souls and subsequently to demonstrate
them, through superintendent, to dedicate themselves to burden.

 A beautiful part of what they see
as "religious discussion" was conducted between Mr Bruce and the Minister during the visit of
the former presbytery, which we have failed to show, (although for some reason we do not intend
to give it a name was) located outside the city of Aberdeen, a retired Strathclyde or valley,
full-Sloe and hazel bushes, with Dee runs through them like a giant
silver snake.

Although slightly more than half a mile from Aberdeen, and much closer to the church of which
Mr Comyn was minister, the priest seemed so lonely and quiet as thirty miles lay between her
and a busy, crowded city. Now, though Mr. Bruce had rented apartment sleeping in the house
of Mr. Bell's Comyn-husband, or the clerk who hard by the church, he spent all his free time
with his friend at the rectory, where his meals were always taken, and in addition to the magnificent
sum of polemical palaver we have alluded to a great deal of whiskey-toddy
did the worthy minister and his guest plotting to swallow in the heat
of their arguments.

Time and often did good, innocent Miss Henny Comyn explained that when the shake-hands hours arrived,
Mr. Bruce, "puir man seemed AFF dribbling his cosie beddie on strange fu Davy Bain's 'o' the
spirit!"

True it was, but the old maiden guessed not in its innocence, that the mind is an evil, and called the
man and the fire from the unsuspecting barley grain.

Finally, as we have said, Mr Comyn said his desire - indeed, his command - that Barbara must prepare
itself to Mr. Bruce received as a groom in six months thereafter.

And now Mr. Bruce himself, a shy man and Dour at other times, courage in one day, after dinner,
its - "love," so he was really hot, so we suppose we heard, our extreme
ignorance of the exact category of the nomenclature of the feelings
that actuated his.

Honest man! narrow and selfish as he was, he was not cruel by nature,
or unwilling, and he was even touched by the pathetic and frank confession,
which he made with Barbara on the state of her heart.

But, though touched by her tears, he did not understand them, but
treated them as the natural mawkishness of girlish sentimentality
nor had assured her that she ever would, but keep her cousin John,
force him to dissuade the prosecution of his suit.

He was void of any delicacy of feeling, was neither hurt nor dissatisfied with their professed
loyalty to one another, but satisfied with a quote from himself,
misquoting, and completely distorting the Scripture, and concluded
by assuring her that her duty to obey her father before marriage -
after her husband.

He had no doubt that she would be happy if his wife because "he was
rich, and a steady Presbyterian!"

 

We hear a lot about the famous personalities, Shakespeare and Homer, but their fame is going
to end soon. Death is certain and it happens to everyone, even to God. Death comes for bringing
a change to the pre-existing.

Small changes result in a grand change.
Life is very unpredictable. Nobody knows that how long he is goin
to survive.

Some creatures enter next lifeform after death, while some have a very small life. These living
beings live for very short period, but they serve as food to other beings so that they can live
long.

Shakespeare and Handels are such kind of beings.
The unpredictable nature of life can be reflected in a person's reputation too. Sometimes the strong
personalities live shorter than those who are unexpected.

Its very uncertain that on what basis this age limit is classified.

More often, its believed that people who do gud live long, but nobody is sure about such beliefs
whether these hold true in their case or not.

In this world, where life is so uncertain, young writers have found
a solution to live long.

Although they might not live too long, still they get to live even
after they die through their writings. 

The emperor gave him and the envoy of France similar places to stay.
Two large pillars supported the vault of palace, which was dug into
the ground was one of the top palace's of the emperor. 

He was in the best of moods. He discussed rich and immense farm and gold-mines. He was going to
leave for a job, but planned on returning to buy a home in the country-because he already had
one in mind-and he would play while being surrounded by friends and everything he enjoyed. We
went our own ways, and would not meet again. While traveling back to the coast with a small
party he became lost, and there was never a trace of him found. His friends always held onto
his memory and saw him as having amazing courage, happiness in the worst of times, always helping
others, and unmoving stiffness. Could a man like him be considered a failure? I do not feel
it could be so. I will write again. Until I do write I will always be,
D.R.
*****

HOW TO KNOW THE SEASON. -"Handsome's Girls!" The sweet young girls will be bought for the low
amount of a single penny! about this small amount, -with out notice
of a higher charge,-a person can buy the Holiday Number of the One
Cent Illustrated, which has Mr. SCOTT CLEMENT "our departed friend"

(going around the world - "country hopping"), starts off with some good lines. Laureate, will
he be picked? He is gone; and most really good poets seem to be "missing."

The Editor, that great spinner of tales, writes one of his best stories
yet, painting a picture in the mind for us of Miss ELLIE NORE.

 Quilt Pink Swiss dots, with wide wheel.  A toilet - To match the bed
with pink carpet Satin - bound in pale gray boxes.
A large box - For the waist, etc. Covered in pink and gray chintz.

A desk - To correspond with painted furniture, gray blotting paper
and pen pink.

Two presidents - one of natural wicker with pink satin cushions, and
a wooden match painted furniture, chair caning.

A sewing table - mahogany or cherry.

A lamp - base of China, with a silk curtain, Swiss dots, or pink paper.
The Nursery
The ideal nursery is also a games room.

Should, wherever possible, comply with the ideals of their own child's
world.

In this room are the first impressions are never forgotten, and have
a lasting influence on adult life.

Do not adorn the cribs, beds, curtains or ribbons and lace, and expect
their child to be happy.

The "no" and "being carefuls" make children irritable and unhappy.
Choose the room with a thought to sunlight, and make sure you have the roller shutters to darken
the room without air.
The soil should be naked except for a rug beside the bed, or be covered with a good grade of
linoleum format.

The walls and furniture should be painted, if possible, a cream or light gray.
Some fairy tale friezes are attractive, and offer opportunities to
introduce color, but, if used, should not be placed too high on the
wall - around three quarters of its height from the ground is a reasonable
height.

Children study has shown that many of the designs and repeated and
subjects lose their meaning, especially for older children.

The furniture in the nursery should be practical.
painted furniture and wicker chairs are attractive.
A comfortable chair with wings or comfortable for adults is essential.

Under shelves and cabinets, built for toys and books are needed if
the room should be kept clean and tidy.

A chalkboard set, and a large box of books and articles ones, are welcome additions.
A suggested color scheme Nursery

Walls - A painting soft and hazy, gray, color, or plain paper.
Woodwork - An opaque white.
Floors - normal wood with a cloth or braided rug blue sapphire - or soft, covered in linoleum Taupe
Jasper.
Below is a suggested list of nursery furniture that may contain
A Crib - White iron or wood, ball bearing wheels.
Seersucker quilt of yellow and white, or yellow sunfast silky.

A high chest of drawers - painted white or cream, with lots of drawers.

Ping - Under care or a high that has had its legs cut off.
Two presidents - low, with wooden seats, and painted to match the
furniture.

A desk - superior holiday with a lot of paper and pencils.

Waste Paper Basket - white or natural wicker.

A great President Fireside - With sliding cover of the blue-striped
clothes and yellow.

Glass shades - from the highest quality cream-colored gauze, tied
with yellow ribbon.  
More curtains (if desired) - Of silk primrose
yellow, or sunfast, or clothes yellow and blue stripes to match coverslip.
Clothes rack - mounted on wood, painted white, with at least four
hooks.  
Closet - Must have a post in what could be hanging a lot
of hangers. Also a rack about 6 inches from the floor for shoes, etc.
Large floor pillows - One each of blue, yellow, green and orange
Nile.  
Color Scheme - If you want other color combinations such
as blue and black, or pink and white, to write the information.
Kitchen Model  
Prepared by the Office HOME ECONOMICS DEPARTMENT
OF AGRICULTURE  
The first consideration in organizing kitchen equipment
to save steps and work. The kitchen should be clean, odorless and
attractive.  
Size - No more than 120 square feet of workspace for
food preparation and washing dishes. More space in the kitchen is
used for laundry or dining room is.  
Ventilation - If there are
no cross currents are provided to cut a mirror on the back door if
possible window together and make arrangements to allow ventilation
through the top and bottom of the window. And
so we concluded that night that Talbot had lost every piece of property he owned--or thought
he owned. The destruction of Ward Block took every cent of income away, with the exception
of the Wharf Company stock dividends. These though could not begin to meet the obligations
of interest and agreed paymnets on the other property.

The state of this became well known in about ten days simply because, in those rapid times, obligations
were never made nor money lent for longer periods than one month. At the end of each thirty days
they had to be renewed.

Naturally, Talbot could not renew them.

We knew all that in advance, and we faced the situation with a bit of humour.

"Well, boys," said Talbot, "here it is. About a year ago, as I remember it, our assets were
a bundle of newspapers and about a hundred dollars. There's no newspaper now, but I reckon among us
we could scape together the hundred dollars."

"I've got nearer twenty-seven hundred in my belt," I admitted.

An awkward silence fell for a moment; then Talbot talked, picking
his words carefully.

"We've talked that over, Frank," said Talbot, "and we've come to
the conclusion that you must keep that and go home, just as planned.
You're the only man of us who has managed to keep what he has made.
Johnny falls overboard and leaves his in the bottom of the Sacramento;
Yank gets busted in a road-agent row; I--well, I blow soap bubbles!
You've kept at it, steady, strong, and reliable, and you deserve your
good luck. You shouldn't lose the fruits of your labor because we,
each in our personal manner, have been assorted fools.

I listened
to the speech with growing indignation; and at the conclusion I rose
up full of what I considered righteous anger. My temper is very slow
to rouse, but once it wakes, it takes pure possession of me. At the Time of his death he had just completed the construction of his mill. His
wife died not long after. They were our neighbors as well Gilchrist who lost his life while
working for Mr. Gowanlock.

Frog lake is wide and expansive. In one direction it stretches on and on for at least a dozen
miles. In the center of the lake is an island with lots of evergreen
trees. After the Parma prince had laid siege
on Sluys, Leicester tried to get there by sea and then by land; however, he did not succeed
in either case. Since he blamed his troubles on the Hollanders, they also talked badly about
him. If it be legitimate, it is certainly a queer pass of organism full. This hour is
hence e'er kept in analyze by the hunter, as he rides slow finished the biome, with his search
on his margin, spell his stabbing eye penetrates the surrounding specs.
 

Five minutes later trumpets were heard in our camp and twenty minutes later most of the cavalry
had arrived.
There they were,5,000 men with flags waving and shiny jack-boots
shining in the sun. Will, "he said, and was about to leave the room when the nurse, an honest
woman country, helped again to ask where to write to the man who gave him news of his young daughter.

"I do not want anything," he said. "You can apply this to the lady of money if the child lives, and
if he dies she lets me know and I need to send no more." So saying he left the room, leaving women
with the hands and eyes raised to the behavior of hard-hearted father.

For nearly two years M. Linders was absent from Paris, walking, as was his custom from one city
to another, a free man, as he himself would have said, except for a tie, which recognized only
the amounts of money sent from time to time with generous enough
to Madame Lavaux.

No news reached him of his son and wanted none. But some twenty months after the death of
his wife, the business was forced to go for a couple of weeks to Paris, and face a day of fun in
his hands, he thought with a sudden urge to use the country and go to see his child. Lavaux found
the lady where she was and left.
The woman that Madeleine had been placed shortly lived about fifteen miles from Paris, in a small
town halfway up a steep hill from the foot of which is stretched
a wide plain, where the Seine wounded slowly through the trees and
meadows, and scattered villages.

The house, which was directed M. Linders stood out from others in the vicinity of road, but separated
from it by a stretch of garden planted with herbs, and a patch of vines and when he opened the
door, left a beautiful little picture of a toddler with an apron very short-waisted, long
skirts, todd tion that play hide and seek between the posts and earrings high end, and kept
within safe limits by a pair of arms went around the arm of a woman sitting on the shadow
of the door, knitting. As M. Linder went up the narrow road, ran up to him to the fullest extent
of their ties, the publication of inarticulate cries little excited, and brimming with joyous
laughter of a child as instinctive consciousness is marked by its happy environment.
 Willows are commonly planted by setting ten inch slips
into soft ground to a depth of about eight inches. These should be arranged in straight rows four
or six feet apart, with one foot between individuals slips within
the row (except the green willow, which requires two feet spacing).

Care should be taken to keep them away from weeds in the first two years, after which, they
can be left on their own to grow.

When the bark peels easily, the osiers can be cut and processed through a machine invented by J.Colby
of Jonesville, Vermont, which removes the bark from up to two tonnes of wood per day, without
damaging the wood itself. The profitablity of cultivation of different varieties differ by location.
 When evening spreads her shades around, and darkness filled the vault
of heaven, when not a whisper, not a sound ear Fancy sports is given;
When is a broad bright sky, and looked around with eyes of gold,
when nature softened by its light.

Sounds cool, solemnly to lie;
Then, when our thoughts are high above this world, and all this world can give, Oh, sister! sing
the song I like, and get tears of gratitude.
Basic emotions song my breast, And, hovering, half trembling fear,
O sister! sing the song once more, that ne'er was made for mortal ear.

'Twere almost sacrilege to sing these notes against the background
glow of day; notes supported by the purest angels wing, and wafted
by the breath away.

When, sleeping in my bed weed-grown, thousands Shouldst stay here above, wilt thou not kneel next
to my head, And, sister! sing love songs?

To young readers might be useful to observe that these verses in place
an approach materiality, but on the wrong side of the line: no one
may be necessary to say that breathe deep sense of a mind essentially
poetic.

"Her desire for knowledge increased as she grew more able to appreciate
its usefulness," and she appreciated far beyond its real value benefits
of girls education normal female.

"Oh!" She said one day her mother, "which means we have only half the improvement that others
see slighting!
 If you could arrange the parts perfectly it would
be double because symmetry is the basis of health and beauty.This theory would make medicine
practice much more simple if it would become popular.Before the eyes the disease would become
tangible and visible To use inventions that would counteract and
even conquer the different eccentricities in nature would be ruled
by science ,and found to be no quackery, which for right now is more
or less attached to it.To follow these speculations,though,would make
us go too far and before we ended it we would have to find a way for
a few of our practical philosophers' thoughts.

It seems that all good mechanics have big hands and short fingers. This conclusion was arrived
at by D'Arpentigny in La Chironomonie, but the captain added the hands must be en spatule
or the ends of the fingers must be spatula shaped.Usually the hand and foot is the same breadth.He
recognized this fact by the country people when buying their shoes at fairs might have been
seen thrusting in their hand to see the wideth when they had figured the length was alright.
Good dancers have short limbs in contrast to the rest of their bodies and that gives them the
power over them. But, if they are too short there is a lack of dexterity to manage the feet.

To end, we think it will show that there is much to be learned even in the shears business. There
is not any work which won't allow materials for thought to a smart person and this will enlarge
his mind and raise his character.
THE NIGHTINGALE

Is a nightingale's song happy or sad? Is this a thought that after being discussed so much any
other thought would be considered superfluous if it wasn't for the fact of discussing it is
a reason for curiosity.
 If he said "male", would you say "we
need to have a female".

Or if he says "female", would you state that you want a male?

The fisherman was called for, because he was smart and kind, and he was asked "Would your fish
happen to be male or female?". He simply answered "I suppose fish are nuetral, there doesn't
seem to be male or female fish."

The King thought this was very amusing, and laughed at the fisherman. He ordered the fisherman
to pay a fine of four thousand dirhems. The fisherman went to the bank, and withdrew eight thousand
dirhems, which was given to him in sack. He threw the sack over his shoulder and began walking.
Every now and then, a dirhem would fall from the sack and land in the dirt. The fisherman would
stop each time, pick up his money, and place it back into the sack. The King and Shirin happened
to see this, time after time. Shirin said to the King, "Oh King, have you noticed the greed of
that man, leaning over to pick up each dirhem he drops, instead of
leaving it lay for one of your servants to have?"

The King thought about that, and became angry, "You are absolutely right!" Then the King yelled
to the fisherman, "Hey, stupid! You aren't a man! Why would you stop to retrieve those dirhems,
when you could let them lay where they fell for my servants to have?" The fisherman responded
"I kiss the earth at your feet, King, and bless you to have a rich
life.

I explain my actions to you, dear King, it is not the value of the coin, but the face imprinted
on it, yours. The other side of the coin bears your name. I retrieved the coins that fell because
I wouldn't want anybody else to step on it and dishonor your name. You would probably fine
me for the offence!" The King thought about his words, and decided that the fisherman was
pretty smart after all.

He told the fisherman that he could keep the four thousand dirhems
as reward for for his witty remarks.

YEHYA BEN KHALID THE BARMECIDE AND THE POOR MAN.

Yehya ben Khalid the Barmecide was heading home one day, from the
Kahlif's mansion, when he noticed a skinny unkempt man at the gate
of his house.

The man stood as he got closer, and saluted him.

He said "Oh Yehya, I could use what is in your hand, God blesses
you".

Yehya felt badly for the man, and took him inside his house to feed
him.

He also asked his purser to give the man a thousand dirhems a day,
and to feed him the best meals, to help restore his health and strength.

The man stayed a whole month, and gathered thirty thousand dirhems.

He left quickly, afraid that Yehya would go back on his word with such a large amount! When
the servants told Yehya of his fast departure, he said "My Lord, he stayed all month, I fed
him, clothed him, and helped him restore his own strength. I spared nothing for that man."
His disappointment showed.  A poet later wrote that Yehya was a great man, and praised how
he helped people with his wealth.
I asked meekly "Are you free?"

It answered, "No, I am Yehya's servant", I asked "A paid servant?", "No, heaven forbid! My family
has worked for him for generations, so I guess I was inherited!"

MOHAMMED EL AMIN AND JAAFER BEN EL HADI

Jaafer ben Mousa el Hadi had owned a slave, a girl that also played the lute, her name was El
Bedr el Kebir. She was beautiful, and talented. She could sing while playing the lute, and she
was graceful and charming. Mohammed el Amin, Zebeideh's son, heard about this beautiful young
lady and her talents.

He asked Jaafer to sell her to him, but Jaafar refused.

He said "I would not sell her because she was born and raised in
my house.

If I wanted to send her away, I would do it as a gift. But I don't
want to send her away.

You are welcome to come visit, and hear her sing and play anytime you want."
About a week later, El Amin went to Jaafer's house, for dinner, and El Bedr sang and played her
lute to brighten the evening.

El Amin was delighted, and drank wine while listening to her beautiful voice. He bribed the
servants to keep Jaafer's wine glass full. When Jaafer was drunk
and asleep, El Amin carried the girl to his own house.

The next day, he sent an invitation to Jaafer, and when he arrived,
he gave him a big glass of wine, and told the girl to sing, hidden
from view behind a curtain.

 

It was always my plan to allow General P.H. Sheridan adequate time
to serve in the highest military position and, thus, I let him know
that I planned to retire in the year 1884.

 * * * * *
MISQUOTATIONS.
Mr. Editor, - poets misquoting offense is become so general, I would suggest that publishers
print the advantage of index greater than are now offered to the
public.

For lack of them, newspapers sometimes make strange blunders.

Times, for example, has recently more than once, given following a version known couplet: -

"Vice is a monster of so frightful expression that is ugly, but must be seen."
memory reader will no doubt instantly substitute for such hideous "so scary" and that, 'that'.

Same paper, a short time, as did the sad thing with Moore, as follows: -
"You may break, could ruin the vase if you will, but the smell of
roses will hang it yet."

Moore does not say anything about perfumes Hanging vase. "Hanging" is an odious term, and destroying
all feeling. What Moore does not really say is this: -
"You may break, could ruin the vase if you will, but the smell of roses will still stick around."
Now verse appears in its original beauty. 
It is impossible to
speak of poets without thinking of Shakspeare, which towers above
them all. We have yet to find an editor capable of doing it full justice.
Some of Johnson's notes are very funny, and the recent publishers
occasionally cause a smile. Where once a mistake was made is persisted
in. 

The animated street gives an invisible presence that dances before you as you walk. The presence
is the spirit of San Franciso.
At Lotta's Fountain, street singer Tetrazzini and wandering minstrel
Jan Kubelik enchant crowds under the starlight of Christmas Eve.

San Francisco has captured the hears of meny people, the likes of those ranging from Dana to Stevenson
and Harte to Mencken. Rudyard Kipling wrote "San Francisco has only one drawback." The drawback
he talks about? "Tis hard to leave."
San Francisco is like a Western darling whose eyes gleam with exotic
ancestry.

As a baby it was a sleepy Spanish peublo. As a child it was gold mines and it was fed the excitment
of those gold-spangled days.

It boasts a paradox of being truly American but still cosmopolitan, the most so of any community
in North America. It is American, but bristles with the tongues of many cultures.
It is the far western outpost of Aryan civilization and is the stage for a festival of life. It
is a meeting place of nations and culture.

Inez Haynes Irwin issues a warning for strangers in San Franciso.

The booklet means to keep the curtain up.
It means to stay inside the gate.

A map shows a peninsular jutting out from the California coast like
a boot if you turn it so that the Pacific Ocean is near you.

San Francisco is the toe of the boot, stratching six or seven miles.

It is hills flanked by the Pacific on the west side and the Bay on
the north and east.

The only gap in the coastal mountains is the bat that the Golden
Gate Bridge spans.

Few cities have been told to match the natural beauty of San Francisco.

Constantinople and Rio de Janeiro are the only two maritime cities to be labeled such. The bay's
basin is an amphitheatre surrounded by peaks and ridges, it's basin
fed by the Sacramento and San Joaquin rivers flowing from the central
garden valley.

Yerva Buena, Alcatraz and Angel islands dot the bay spreading out below San Francisco. Across
the bay is Oakland, Berkely and Alameda and in the distance are the Tamalpais and Mr Diablo,
breaking the skyline like a curtain.
Skyscrapers and other buildings take on a fantastical appearance as
they accent the horizons of the city.

Many visitors arrive at the Ferry Building where the gala tower shows a clock at each point of
a compass. Others arrive at the Third and Townsend St railroad station or some come by sea,
through the Golden Gate and arrive at the piers of the waterfront.

Market Street moves diagonally from the Ferry Building to the Twin Peaks, the mountain that has
tunnels allowing rapid transit to residential areas.
Twin Peaks is the geographical center of the city. Those not knowing this would mistake the end of
Market Street as the western boundary of the city.
Market Street radiates outwards to most all of the city's important
arteries.

At night it takes on a surreal appearance when the electroliers made by D'Arcy Ryan like up the
stretch. It becomes a dazzling sight, everything dancing in the motion of crowds, taxis, cars and
others.
The heart of downtown San Franciso is a junction formed by Market, Kearny, Geary and Third Streets.
It is the newspaper center and is enveloped by hotels large and small,
shops, restaurants and flower stalls along the sidewalk. I am of the view that now I shall let you know about a memorable
story related to me with Mr. John Marr, Mathematician and geometrician
of his own kind and genre.

I assume that you remember him. He served the court of King James and Charles the First.
 In 1815, I recollect a large area of neat cottages, and the square, a green
shaded by ancient trees. The majority of the cottages are now without
roofs; the trees are gone, and during my last visit, in 1821, a crop
of barley was growing in the square. 

Now, the justice has been made on more attentions than we are competent of making at present;
the justice considers a man as competent of bearing any kind and everything but blows. I may reproach
a man as much as I please; I may call him a stealer, burglar, traitor, scoundrel, coward, lobster,
bloody-back, etc., and if he put to death me it will be slaughter, if none other but remarks
precede; but if from giving him such kind of terminology I progress to take him by the nose,
or fillip him on the forehead, that is an assault; that is a blow.

The justice will not oblige a man to stand still and withstand it; there is the distinction.
Hands off; contact me not. As before long as you contact me, if I run you through the heart, it is
but manslaughter. The utility of this distinction, the more you consider of it the more you
will be gratified with it. It is an assault every time a hard bang is smacked, let it be ever
so small, and at times even without a blow. The justice considers man as frail and passionate.
When his passions are influenced, he will be flung off his guard, and consequently the justice makes
allowance for this frailty --considers him as in a fit of passion, not having the tenure of his
sophisticated intellectual might, and consequently does not oblige him to evaluate out his hits
with a yard-stick, or weigh them in a scale.

Let him put to death with a sword, armament, or hedge-stake, it is not slaughter, but only
manslaughter. (Keyling's Report, 135. Regina versus Mawgrige.) "Rules carried by agency and general
approval, presenting what are perpetually sanctioned to be enough provocations. First, if one
man upon any remarks will make an assault upon another, either by hauling him by the nose or
filliping him on the forehead, and he that is so assaulted will draw his sword and straight away
run the other through, that is but manslaughter, for the serenity
is broken by the someone murdered and with an indignity to him that
accepted the assault.

Besides, he that was so affronted might rationally detain that he that treated him in that
fashion might have some farther create upon him."
So that here is the boundary, when a man is assaulted and puts to death in aftermath of that
assault, it is but manslaughter. I will just read as I depart along the explanation of assault:--
(1 Hawkins. ch. She had correspondence
with a talented, inventive and brilliant force. She ordered from a Paris book company, for
copies of books written by Balzac. She used to read his booksrepeatedly and found that all
the words written in his books were in such a manner, as if, they were written only for her.
She always took small notes and wrote opinions on his writing and sent them to Balzac
But Balzac avoided her papers and did not accept them. So she pleaded him to have a seperate
column for himself in a certain Paris paper, for which she was subscribing
periodically, so that she would be aware of his well being at any
time.

Atlast, he agreed to her peculiar request. It appeared , as if, they were very much familiar
with each other. The happiness was not at its full, with respect to that lady. It was only a secret contact
with a gentle and moderate man, which was a pleasing sin under the cover of a pleasant and
sacred smell.
 "Robinson," the very worried Beau said, turing to his manservant,"Robinson,
please state to the gentleman the lake that I like the best."--"Sir, I believe it to be Windmere,"
the manservant stated. "Ah," Brummel responded, "Robinson, correct
you most likely are." Old stteled family came to me and a sttelr told me "He
bought mattress and two blankents in Cleveland while comming to Duluh. He had a feather bed
and lunch basket with knife and fork in it and a pair of small china
dishes.

He has a bedsteds with green peeled tamark poles tied with bark ropes
and a tabel of two boards found floating in the Bay.Beding included
Indian blankets and moccasins indstead of shoes, while curtains, carpents
and upholstered furniture were unknown.

Mr. Richard Marvin who was a memeber of the Fire brigade was also
a the posmaster, of postoffice settle in a small buildin on First
Stree and First Avenue East.

 Yankee
enterprise is purposely emerged to do something with the erection of the presently buildings.
Due to the reason of Rebel dead, as its neighborhood cemetery, its
own cemetery is also highly buried by numerous people.

So at the time of our occupancy, so many larger buildings were occupied
as hospital for hospitalization purpose.

But on the day of McClellan”s departure, the entire streets were
anxiously crowded with officers and men.

Besides, the sympathies of the Rebel residents were showing their
distinctive presence according to the agreement made with the chieftain’s
favorites.

At the same time, the representatives of the clannish attachments – a species of Masonry in the
army made by McClellanism were under power and they were in force. Due to this kind of enthusiasm,
brotherly love has become changed into patriotism. Moreover, as an amazing turning point, as per
entries made in the record of the McClellan campaigns, the Rebels also made their faithful appearance
and associated with these devotees in their grief wholeheartedly.
 During the twenty-fourth, the Baron followed inwards bumping the Austrians
by Custozza later 4 hours' battle; just following daylight, which
cost dropped all inwards active, Radetsky recaptured Custozza, and
bound the baron to lag about Villafranca.

 

The ideal of ' immortality' is not essentially be wrong, but it won't
hold true by physical and metaphysical concepts.Even If it is a theosphist
or non-theosophists,christian or spiritualist, or materialist or idealist
it is only a fancy.

Some think the lifespan of human arelimited to a hundered years or
little more.But we must take death as a sudden transformation of darkness
into a bright light.

 She was overwhelmed by the unseen
scenic beauty of Switzerland.

The Spring holiday time was renamed by Weyburn to season of the flowering
Alpine robes.

An exceptional reception was promised by him along with an oath that he would come again.
With all acceptances it was given. 'We will; we will indeed!'
He said that he was looking forward.
There was nothing much that neither him nor her were doing; expect to make foolish gestures
as time flew by. As they we excited to come back again, they realized that it was time for them
to go back to where they had come from. While doing so, they were trying to make the most of
the moment which was quite sufficient plant a peg in their reminiscences, which in some time
would not be within their reach. The craving for it made things worst. They started contemplating
the future, came back to the present which attributed to their past, reasonable to the swift of
the present moment they could not grip. Have you ever forgotten the moment when I knelt before you for amends,
while you never did hear any of my words of presumption, when that most beautiful and guiltless
boy, the pretty innocent soul that was ever born and lived in this world full of sins, lay at
your feet, killed by your spoilt subordinate. This is not revenge, but pure justice, note
down, my lords. Martin Ursini underwent trial in the open, found
guilty and he is condemned to death.

Colonna.

Listen to us though.. Rie. Lords, still I should be blind as justice, to indict for this
great robber, even if you could line before me all the peers, Prelates,
and potentates of Christendom, the holy pontiff kneeling before me,
and emperors squatting at my feet. These unpleased men were liberated from their dwellings almost the
same time, both going back to Oxford. They seemed to have recovered their wits, but the result
revealed that this was very far from the truth. When they met on the banks of the Cherwell, they
assaulted each other with such rage, that, like Brutus and Aruns, they were both killed. The
barber was been murdered silently in the encounter, and the student
died from a wound in the throat by his rival’s razor.

 Therefore, I did not know what was before me and I did not have any
ordinary rules of procedure that can guie me.Still, the Commissioner
allowed me to try to work against the attacks.

I have been informed that legal evidence will not be followed by the
argument,but from newspaper extracts.

Mr.Lunt.

Very strong.

I have to say that everything of that kind has been offered by me.

The Commissioner.An article from the newspapers is being proposed to be read by the gentleman
as part of his argument.
Mr. Dana.In order to affect the court's mind on the facts,it is being
proposed to be read as evidence,which cannot be objected now.

When the offer has been made,I am sure the Commissioner willproperly
meet it.

I do not know, what comes upon me,a pretty wide margin must be taken
by me.In that case, it will be proper to make a statement of Mr.Davis's
true position,referring to the principles involved in the case.

Your Honor,Not being the subjects of monarchy,which puts laws,where we don't involve.There
is no hesitation to say that 1850 qct had been imposed upon us,who are a subject people by a
monarchy, where we should have rebelled as one man.
There is no hesitation to say that if a province, mother country imposes this law without our
participation,we should have rebelled as one man.
We are republic.
Our own laws are made by us.OUr own lawgivers are chosen by us.The
laws we make are obeyed by us and the laws that we obey are made by
us.

Though it is not constitutional, we feel that they are constitutional,due to its provisions.which
is repealed or judicially abrogated.
The law was passed by our own city's representative's vote,who are being sent there by our
votes.

Our own senator advocated that it was passed by the help of northern votes.Is there any remedy?It
feels to me that the answer can be obtained from the statement of the case that it is in the
people's hands and not by compelling poormen to put themselves in
the canon's mouth.What is wanted is political courage which is shown
in speech, through writings and through votings.

But, make known that, what all I have said is based on the idea that it is a repealable law.If
I tell you that it is a part of the organic law, which is sunk deep down into national compact.which
is never to be repealed,then we cannot answer for the consequences.But
now we can be sure that it may be repealed in future.With that great
argument,the defendant and myself can do nothing.The defendant cannot
say anything to discourage coloured men from the use of force.We can
remove his great means of influence from him.Neither myself, nor the
defendant would throw out the strengths in denunciations against Southern
men, who were born to slavery,who will pass over to Northern men who
are responsible for this state.

 

The starving one fought with fury,but he who had the enough was the stronger and the peacefuller:
at last the juvenile drove his sword right through the body of the elder; but the elder at the
same instant bisected his opponent's head apart, and so the both
fell dead together. 

From the window she reached the court whereas she raved approximately, jumped again the garden
fence and sauntered round at lowest an hour.

Then she went back, laid the flowers onto the window within perfect order and--could not encounter
her distance towards bed. There was always a scene the next day whether Grandmother had been wakened
within the night."

The most significant feature within this announcement, nearby the
phenomenon of sadism, afterwards robbed again via the daughter, the
urethral eroticism and the susceptibility toward the moonlight, is
the behavior of the mother whilst sauntering within her sleep.

She plainly has an suggestion whereas the flower pots stand, which
she sweeps from the container and the window, but onto the else hand
she arrives within touch nor with the bed nor the chamber, which yet
are within their habitual places.

We shall also rob note further onto of the dancing upon the container
within the silver moonlight as well as the jumping out of the window,
jumping and sauntering about.

Before I go onto with my patient's story, something should be remarked
concerning its origin.

She had been undergoing psychoanalytic counseling with me for nine
months onto fund of various harsh hysterical symptoms, which I shall
not here touch upon further, when she one day arrived out with the
proposal that she compose for me her autobiography.

I accepted it and she carried me little via little approximately two hundred fifty pages of folio,
which she had rehearsed without any influence onto my portion, except
of course that she had, within those months of counseling, made the
technique of the analysis very much her own as far as it touched upon
her case.

Practically nothing within our profession together within solving
her troubles was remarked of her sleep walking.

I possess also within none distance touched or been able towards
influence her explanation.

It stems uniquely from the patient's associations and the vocation
of her freshly acquired information of the unconscious within the
interpretation of her symptoms.

I encounter otherwise within her fund of her life a number of greatly interesting points. "Even
at two or three years old Mother at my entreaties ought soothe me towards sleep. As we lay together
within bed I pretended often towards be unconscious and reached as whether 'in my sleep' as
soon as my mother's breast within order towards revel within sensation
there.

 Mr.Gresley said"oh, well", Lets stop
emptying our heads. I dont want to have unnessary conversartion about this matter. If you could
come to my study room, at 10.00 o clock I will take off my hands at once".
"Its my pleasure", said Hester, looking at him with sorrowfull inspiration.

 Sir John Wrottesley told to Mr. Croke that he would never find anything
that gives hints of sweet Auburn in the village of Bilston and the
rural district of Sedgeley.

 "If not for my family,
and the Andromeda's skipper's meddling in the field of politics, I'd have entered the game myself."

To expect that Carmela's countenance would relax when she found out about her opponent's love, would
be to expect something that her personality would not grant. A volcano
can only put forth what is inside it. Iris, though she did not know
it, had drained herself of any allegiance from Salvador. [10]See "Horsemanship" ii.1.
Soc.I would recommend not so more than to purchase lads and train them up from boyhood as farm-labourers.
There are some certain happy moment from my opinion which must be seized, alike in man and
horse which is rich in present service and in future promise. I can prove you that how men treat
their wedded wives in such a way that they find true helpmates to the joint increase of their
estate, while others treat them in a wholesale disaster to bring
them upon themselves. It is pleasent to heat and wander the brain .Therefore the next time when i saw him
"Sandy said was not Troy laid into ashes " ? He stared at me ,rathere vexed like ,he answered
with a forced laugh , "A woman was it ?

"A woman was it ? said what was the cause of Sandy Rutherford losing his situation as a tutor and
being sent back to Annan?"  
"Sir!" he said and scowled down his
eyebrows , and looked at me that what had spained them lamb. 

The move could have been deemed a success, since before long both
she and Avery happily fell in love with other people.

Unfortunately, before the divorce could be granted, and they could
live happily ever after with their new loves, Cecily was injured in
an auto accident.

The twisted fate that dropped her on the doorstep of her husband's practice and into his care,
caused an entirely different outcome. What if Avery had been a dentist, accountant, or in
some other profession?

Would the fates conspired in some other way to give Avery the same
advantages?

This is a well-written story dealing with the human experience. When Dr. Avery says, "There's a lot
of grippe in town, and it's a thing that isn't reported to the Health
Department", it is right on the money.

 

(From the opposing arguments it must be that one of these shall follow)
1. In eclipses if is it not such a ruddy light that appears, then how can we not see the redness,
when the more obsecure parts ot the Moon we may discern?
Perhaps you will reply that the closer you are to the greater light, the more the appearance
is taken away.
I respond that this is impossible, for why does Mars shine with its
complete redness, when he is in fact closer to the Moon? or why is
it that her powerful brightness does not make appear white as all
other Planets? There also cannot be any given reason why a more powerful
light should show her body under a color that is false. 
2. Once again our thoughts
and actions are severely altered by the soldier with us, that suddenly burst on the floor face down.
Before I had time to wonder why a German shell made a hole in the area in question, not a
hundred yards away. I asked the officer if we had seen, and if they
were shooting at us.

He said he did not believe it, but maybe we had better move. As a matter of fact, they were
hunting for the battery that had so clearly demonstrated their trenches a short time before.

Instead of returning to the point where we had left our motors of the ditch, crossed an open
field in another direction that I thought was right.

All the time we have heard high overhead, the sound of the earth like giant wings. Sometimes,
when a projectile hit the neighborhood, heard the shrill whistling sound, and half a dozen
times during the walk great holes were torn in our field, sometimes very closely. But the artillery
does not cause fear easily, guns that do that.

The shrill whistle of the bullet that closely resembles the sound
of a cat spitting seems so personal - as if designed just for you.

The artillery is totally impersonal, you know that the gunners can not see you, they are shooting
for arithmetic in a certain range, your deposit is not directed at anyone in particular. Then
you go on strike on its hands with his stick in the daisies and buttercups that the border
road. You figure, almost casually, the distance between you and the bomb explodes. Somehow
I feel that nothing will harm you. They have no fear, and if you're lucky, like us, the car
is waiting right there beyond the top of the hill.
The Modern Platea
By Frederick Pollock
[From King Albert's book.]

Nearly 2,400 years ago Boeotian city of Plataea was a minor between
the republics many Greeks.

Its citizens won immortal fame by joining with the leading states of Athens and Sparta in the
decisive battles, fought in their own territory, which delivered
Greece from the Persian conquest of fear and saved the light of freedom
and the Greek civilization be extinct.

Today the name of Platea is held in honor of the whole world for many years that the honor was
unique. Belgium has done and dared for the freedom of modern Europe as much as Plataea was
old: she has, unfortunately, suffered much more. As its value has been equal and suffering greater
your reward will be no less immortal. Belgium will be remembered centuries after the military
dictatorship Platea Hohenzollern has vanished like a bad dream.
A call for British recruits
* * * * *
Is your conscience clear?

Ask your conscience for what you are staying comfortably at home instead of doing his part for king and
country.
1. Are you too old?
The only man who is too old is the man who has more than 38.  
2.
Are you physically fit?  
The only man who can honestly say that
is not in good physical shape is the man who has been told by a doctor.
3. Do you suggest that they can not leave your business?  
In
this great crisis the only man who can not leave his business is the
man who is actually doing the work for the government.  
If your
conscience is not clear on these points that his duty is clear.
Get a daily basis.  
God save the King.  
* * * * *  
This
announcement, which occupy entire pages have been executed recently
in the British press. Your dad and the monsieur do everything they can for you.
Victor disagreed. He did however, express endearing sentiment towards Julia, referring to her
as the "soveriegn of [his] soul."

He acknowledged that she had the ability to shape his destiny, if
she loved him, and offered to do anything to win her affection.

She told him to go back to Marie Buren, and keep the promise he had
given to her.

He refused to do so, saying he was justified in his actions. He refused to give up hope, feeling
it would enhance the quality of his life. This question is linked closely to the often-debated issue of the Pointed
Style's beginnings. Still, in my opinion, the use of "Gothic" might
well have origins unconnected to the emergence of the pointed arch. Glad
you could very satisfied with the old drawing trees and mountains of grass. Captain Fitzchrome.
Happy, Lady Clarinda! Oh, no! How can I be happy when I see the idol of my heart to be sacrificed
on the altar of Mammon about?
Lady Clarinda. You know, despite the Mammon has some kind of bad reputation, I really think it
is very popular, there must be but what about the kind of background on this. It is without
doubt one of these creatures Abuse Welcome to the world, without
which none of the parties, the night is bearable. 

The whole company could visualize the girls and the matrons in the market of Athens who more than
seventeen hundred years ago had called aloud their "melitutes sweetened
with the delicious honey of Mount Hymettus, and tyrontes made of flour
baked with cheese, when Mr. Malcolm reiterated the calls with graceful
and explanatory action, and the professor, who had recovered his poise,
interpreted readily.

The lack of dignity in the reverend gentleman in his vivacious description, or the modulation
in his voice to differentiate girl from the woman, was credited to his shrewdness and inclination
to show courage in order to wipe out the fear and uneasiness that
had been there before he started.

 During this season
there are many impressive processions in Bangkok.
Although these festive occasions, with their joyful and light-hearted feeling, may be thought of
as Buddhist, the fact that there are gambling and processions are
not true to Gotama.

 Comrades, I should not inform you that this issue has agitated
the interest of our philanthropic as well as public-spirited society,
mainly of the medical facility, which in its sanitary part, is a significant
issue of the majority realistic interest.

 It is concluded by Harvey that animals are derived from eggs.
He said it on the assumption that chick is engendered and develpoed from egg. The embryo of viviparous
animals engendered from a pre existing conception. Therefore, it is clear that all generations
are in same kind, that is thr start of both are in same manner. He has to demonstrate, not only that a king's opinion has to be opposite
from that of his people, but additionally that, it has to be more aligned with the views of
the upper class than to the common folk. The spurs dug, the blood spurted. The crowd burst into a howl of
joy as their favorite answer.

Frightened by the sound, the pilot of Vitriol glanced over his shoulder, and saw the Lightning
heaviness upon him like a thunder-bolt, regaining the ground it had
lost, not by inches, but feet.

Two hundred yards from the goal was in the black sides; hundred and
fifty, which was on its circumference, a hundred, and horses were
neck and neck, and remains the Quirt buzzed down the flanks heaving
of The Lightning spurs dug deeper into his flesh trembling.

The vitriol cowboy sitting as an image, using neither whip nor
spur, teeth clenched, eyes on the goal ahead of the rider at his side.

The intensity of the breath of the spectators had burst.

They had begun to click their teeth, to mutter hoarsely, and then shouting, gesticulating,
shaking their fists to the face of another, to push and fight for
a better view.

"Holy God" said Pio Pico, carried out by himself, "the South is lost!

Vitriol the magnificent! Ah, who would have thought? The black and gold!
Ay! What! No! Santa Maria! Holy God -! "
Six more steps and the race is over. With the bark of a coyote, South cowboy leans forward on
the neck of vitriol. The large black and responds like a creature of reason.
Below is the Quirt once - only once.

Rose well ahead of his horse and shoots him in the victory, winning by a neck. The South has
won the North.
The crowd screamed and shouted until it ran out.
But even Cabañares demonstration did nothing to De la Vega. Not only was tired and depressed, but
the victory was won nobly.

It was getting late, and got into the city so close to pushing men who dared doñas, care about Dueñas,
a topic on everyone's lips. Anger led to respect, on the other hand, De la Vega was the guest
of General Castro, the most beloved man in California. They were willing to extend the hand
of friendship, but he rode past, between the General and Mrs. Modeste, and seemed so little
attention because of its good will as to his patient.
Pio Pico was ahead, and as the procession entered the city that he left her and went up the mountain
to bring the news to Isabel Herrera.
Monterrey, rising in the hills of pine spikes, swept like a half moon on the bay of sapphire.  
The
waves roared and fought against the white sand hills of the horn at a distance; in the nearest
town which was the strong, dark and rough, but press with military life, and warning of U.S. attack.
In the valley of red-tiled white houses of adobe studded a small city that was a series of curves
radiating from a central street irregular. A few houses were on the hill on the right, sand
filled brush on the left, the perfect curve of mountains, thick with pine trees and dense green
undergrowth, rose above and around all, a bastion of splendid symmetry.

"Ay! Ysabel! Ysabel!" cried the young people, and which swept the
wide street.

"Taking it to us, Your Excellency. Say it is not known until fall. We will tell you. Oh, poor
Guido!"
The Governor turned and waved, then continued the ascent of the hill,
toward a long, low house, which showed no sign of life.

 His quite imposing list of works may includes a Regulus(1885), an overture a concert overture
(1884), , an operetta , symphony [1885]", were performed in Munich and in London.
"Count Robert of Paris" (1890),was performed in New York, a ballad for choristers and ensemble,
"King Trojan," represented in Munich in 1885, the Twenty-third Psalm
for female choristers and ensemble, (1884).

"Idylle" (1891); "The Normans," "The Kobolds," and "Harold Harfager," all for choristers and
ensemble, and all dated 1891; an oratorio, three or more cantatas,
and various bits of chamber-music.

His music number has already achieved forty-three, and it is barely exist out to a very small
degree by such delicate and downy works as organ and piano solos,
hymns, and songs.

In 1893, Parker won the National Conservatory prize for a cantata, and in 1898 the McCagg prize
for an cappella chorus.
Parker's piano compositions and secular songs are not multifarious. They seem to be the adventitious
byplays and recreations of a fanry chiefly be smitten to sacred music of the larger forms.

Opus 19 consists of "Four Sketches," of which the "Étude Melodieuse" is as acceptable as is necessary
in that overworked appearance, wherein a thin melody is commence with a thinner surge of arpeggios.

The "Romanza" is prosaic and delightful, although the "Scherzino"
is appetizing and crunchy as celery; it is commendable of Schumann,
whom it suggests, and many of whose cool tones and mannerisms it borrows.
The "5 Morceaux Charactéristiques" are on the whole preferred. 

All replied that they could not abide to dress the anguish attributable to their abhorrence thereof.
But there was one of the company, Daluadh by name, who faced the anguish angrily and confidently and
said: "In the name of Christ and of Declan our angel I shall be surgeon to this foot"; and he
said that jestingly. Nevertheless he bandaged the bottom anxiously and adored it aright in the
name of God and Declan, and in a little while the anguish healed and they all gave acclaim
to God. Then Declan said to Daluadh: "You promised to be surgeon to that bottom in Christ's name
and in abundance and God has vouchsafed to alleviate it at these words: on this annual you
will be a accurate physician for anytime and your accouchement and
your berry afterwards you for anytime shall aswell acquire the healing
art, and whomsoever they shall practise healing aloft in God's name
and mine, provided there be no abhorrence [in their hearts] nor too
abundant avidity of a physician's fee to him, God and myself shall
forward relief."

This affiance of Declan has been accomplished in the case of that family.
37. On addition occasion, as Declan was travelling in the arctic allotment of Magh Femhin beside
the Suir, he met there a man who was accustomed a little baby to get it baptised. Declan said to
the humans [his "muinntear," or following]: "Wait actuality till I baptise away child," for it was
appear by the Angelic Ghost to him that he [the babe] should serve God. The accessory replied to
him that they had neither a barge nor alkali for the baptism. Declan said: "We accept a advanced
vessel, the Suir, and God will forward us salt, for this adolescent is destined to become angelic
and admirable [in his works]." Thereupon Declan took up a fistful of apple and, authoritative
adoration in his affection to God, he active the adobe with the assurance
of the cantankerous of redemption.

It (the scattering of earth) became white, dry salt, and all, on seeing it, gave acknowledgment
and honour to God and Declan. The baby was baptised there and the name of Ciaran accustomed him.
Declan said: "Bring up my airy son anxiously and forward him, at a applicable age, for apprenticeship
to a angelic man who is able-bodied instructed in the acceptance for he will become a animated
ablaze colonnade in the Church." And it was this child, Ciaran Mac Eochaidh, who founded in
afterwards years a acclaimed abbey (from which he migrated to heaven)
and addition abode (monastery) besides.

He formed abounding miracles and angelic signs and this is the name of his abbey Tiprut [Tubrid] and this
is area it is:--in the western allotment of the Decies in Ui Faithe
amid Slieve Grot [Galtee] and Sieve Cua and it is aural the bishopric
of Declan.

 The Flute
of Chang Liang To P. Kershaw The village was called Moe-tung.
They were sad they had to wake him up, he looked so happy and content. When they tried to wake
him they found it was impossible. The name appears three times on on the decorated case. In the interior being in
big letters, in a royal cartouche. The viewer stares at the mummy. Could this be a Pharaoh? The writing
reads: three times--'Amenophis I.'--is the answer! This monarch ruled Egypt 50 year after the
exodus of Israel, and 3400 years ago, according to Dr Hales; but others think it is older--even
from the days of Joseph. Another mummy has a golden face, and the
body has incsriptions of the gods of the Amenti, on the parts where
they were the genii.

Amset had a human head and was god over the stomach and large intestines, Hades' judge; Hape,
with a baboon's head, was god over the small intestines; Soumauth had a jackal's head, was god over
the region of the thorax and commanded the heart and lungs; and the last, Kebhsnauf, had a hawk's
head and was god over the liver and gall-bladder. Also, there are mummies that have a style of
swathing peculiarly Egyptian and not Græco-Egyptian, which differs because the limbs are bandaged
separately, not just placed together and enveloped in one form.

Fragments of the human body are also mummied, one of which is between the arm and shoulder
a papyrus-roll. Also, the vases called canopuses, in which the guts and organ were put with
a marking on each of a genius. On each of canopus, grouped in fours, is an incscription. Like
this: Amset--'I am thy son, a god, loving thee; I have come to be beside thee, causing to
germinate thy head, to fabricate thee with the words of Phtah, like the brilliancy of the sun for
ever.' Soumautf--'I am thy son, a god, loving thee; I have come to
support my father.' Kebhsnauf--'I have come to be beside thee, to
subdue thy form, to submit thy limbs for thee, to lead thy heart to
thee, to give it to thee in the tribunal of thy race, to germinate
thy house with all the other living.' Hape--'I have come to manifest
myself beside thee, to raise thy head and arms, to reduce thy enemies,
to give thee all germination for ever.'  
In this apartment there
are many wood and stone statues.

In a wood statue there is a hole intended for a papyrus roll. There are samples of Egyptian
Mosaic tile, and a tablet, with interesting Greek inscription and Egyption style--showing the
ancient style to the Ptolemaic dynasty.
The next room contains innumerable items, many of which are not Egyption. The center cases have
many trinkets and amulets, and coins of rules such as Ptolemy and Cleapatra. Many kinds of
jewellery such as diadems and royal signets as well as simple pottery and beads worn by poor
people.
 They didnt appear there. His focus was
burning so much they had left in the dark without him noticing.

still apearing pissed and angered, Donald stuck his not in his pocket,
then grabed a large amount of spruce boughs, and entered the shanty. The skulls of most Negroes are high
and narrow. Welcker observes that the average percentage begins at 68 and rises to 78. Barnard
Davis discovered four brachyrephals, only from eighteen heads from Equatorial Africa and thus
the variations are so well pronounced. Dolichocephalism is combined with a protrusion of the
upper jaw and an sloping position of the teeth in majority of the cases. Nonetheless there are
whole nations which are truly mesognathous.

The implication that the negro was the ideal of everything barbarous and beast like in nature
by certain mistaken ethnologists, is to be regretted. They attempted to deny the negro any chance
of putting his ability to improve, and even denies his position as
a man. 

In the Carolinas and Virginia it expands to a hundred miles wide encompassing most of the larger
towns in the area. Occasionally a monadnock like Chapel Hill, home to the University of North
Carolina, rises from its gentle heights. These monadnocks recall the striking terrain of New
England.

Generally thought these hills of the Piedmont area are more rounded and lower than those surrounding
Philadelphia. This means the region has many advantages as the land is not so rugged as to be
unsuited for agriculture while remaining topographically interesting.
This long and interrupted valley terrain, forming the second band
of the Appalachians, was used as in important highway by the Indians. 

Degradation of rocks does not depend on rainfall alone. It also depends on the changing atmospheric conditions,
which make the rocks susceptible to wear and tear. Once the rock is weathered it is easily destroyed
by the strong forces of nature such as heavy rainfall, avalanche,
landslide, river currents etc into finer or coarser form which ultimately
gets carried to the sea.

The forces of elevation and degradation are always at work. At times these forces might be balanced
or it might be following one another or last but not the least only one alone might be at work.
The imbalance between the two might result in geographical activities as Chamberlin suggests.
As per Newberry, Schuchert and others due to extensive elevation
and degradation taking place one after another the great cycles of
sedimentation took place.

This means if there have been extensive elevation factors in action, there would be mountain ranges tearing
itself higher into the sky or the lava from the volcanoes streaming down the landscape. All
these would be then weathered to a peneplain, which is a planer surface than mountains.
However in the process of degradation lot of silt will be created
which has to be moved from the higher altitude to the lower levels.

This is accomplished by washing them down to the sea or ocean. This is one of the key factors
of raising the sea level slowly but steadily. It has been estimated that for every four feet
of elevation degraded on land, there has been a rise of one foot in the ocean level. Changes
like these take around thirty thousand years to get accomplished. As a result of this the sea
level rises to meet the peneplain. Although the degradation is more robust initially, as the
mountains get worn down to lesser height the erosion also subsides.

As the sea level raises it starts covering more continents provides
a greater area for evaporation.

This contributes towards the change of climate throughout the world. Extreme climates are found
to exist in the interiors of the continents. As the rising sea levels drown the glaciers and the deserts,
there would be a spurt of vegetative and marine life.

As the vegetation covers greater part of the land, erosion will be arrested and there will no
more weathering of rocks.

However due to the presence of carbon-di-oxide in the rich soil, the chemical activity will
continue.
 M. Annaeus Lucanus attempted to show the breadth of his talents at the
Quinquennial games with Nero. He recited a poem he had written regarding the Civil War between
Pompey and Caesar. He was a vain man, and he did not hesitate to praise himself. He apparently
had the audacity to compare himself to Virgil when discussing his age and his first efforts; furthermore,
he had the assurance to say "And what now remains for me is to deal with a gnat." From an early
age he had been told of his father's unhappy life in the country, and he was but a young man when
he was called to Athens by Nero, who took a liking to him and bestowed
upon him impressive titles.

However, it didn't take long for Nero to loose interest in Lucanus,
and as such the latter quickly fell out of favor. Akbar had not been an observant Muslim
for a long time. When the Ulemâs were no longer in power, he became outspoken about this.
He declared that the Koran was written by men, and said that its commandments were unnecessary. He
stated that Mohammed had performed no miracles and claimed that his
prophecies were meaningless.

He even disputed the notion that the faithful would be rewarded in the next life. Instead, he
professed the doctrine of the Brahmans and Sûfis, which teaches that the soul has many existences
before it is completely purified and becomes divine.
Akbar refuted the the Ulemâs' assertions that all people are born with a natural inclination
toward Islam and that Arabic is the natural language of humanity
(a claim made by the Jews regarding Hebrew and the Brahmans regarding
Sanskrit).

This he did by an uncharacteristically harsh experiment: In 1579,
he arranged for twenty infants to be raised in silence.

The children's parents were compensated, and the babies were placed
in a remote nursery where they were cared for by nurses who spoke
not a word.

Four years later, it was found that the surviving children could
neither speak nor profess the teachings of Islam.

It is said that the children later learned, with difficulty, to speak.

 Similar to humans, experience seems weak and without purpose early
on, but gains experience and power as time progresses. Experience is not limited to an individual, but
is the collected knowledge and control of humanity. Even as older generations die, experience
still continuously grows and adds to the supply, showing the span of human ability over time.
As we live on, we receive the fruits of our ancestors's work through
education, creativity, invention and exploration and also inherit
the genetic and social heritage our ancestors have accumulated over
the years.

The start of the invention process is often very detached. One person comes up with the idea,
then shares it with others, and eventually the idea is presented as complete after hours, or
days or even centuries.

An idea is elaborated by every new person that comes in contact with it until it is complete, but
everyone who partakes in the brainstorming process deserves a share
in the credit for the idea, assuming it is possible to divide the
credit.

Once in a while, a creative individual finds a hidden gem of an idea and enhances mankind's ability
to create, the effects of this inspiration trickling down through the generations. However, more
often, new inventions are not really new but modified versions of objects already in existence
or newly popularized versions of formerly less practical objects.

Looking at the course of history, once in a while a truly new invention
pops up but then suddenly disappears and is not heard of again for
centuries.

Later, a different inventor picks up the idea and modifies it for
use in his era, picking up where the idea path left off and expanding
on the idea.

Sometimes, an invention is born before its time.

Geniuses and idealists conjure up ideas that cannot be brought to fruition because of the
technologies available during their lifetime. In time, when technology catches up to the idea
and the invention can be carried out. Then modern inventors can use the ideas of inventors before
them to create the objects others were unable to. Louis Napoleon once said, "Inventions born
before their time must remain useless until the level of common intellects rises to comprehend
them." Because of this, the inventor with foresight is plagued with misfortune when his ideas cannot
be brought to fruition, even though others may in the future and receive the credit for it.
Therefore, the talent for inventing is also a burden. Many of the greatest inventors died before others
recognized their genius. Those who were successful won enemies. Jealousy, malevonence, and
criticism surround them as people of all walks of life jeer at them, jealous of their success.
The gravest insult is for others to tell the inventor he is a copycat and take away his glory.

So
many inventions have come from years of creative minds before the world could find a way to
use them that only a few can be described here. However, there are so many that one tends to
agree with Chaucer, "There is nothing new but what has before been
old;" or, as another writer says, "There is nothing new but what has
before been known and forgotten;" and Solomon, "The thing that hath
been is that which shall be, and there is no new thing under the sun."

The use of Steam illustrates this wisdom. Ancient peopls knew about Steam, who used it to
grind drugs, turn a spit, and make people feel a sense of wonder or fear. It was not until many
years later that people began to use Steam as a form of energy.

This is all thanks to the thought and experimentation of many generations.
 The thought came to me all of a sudden that this would be a great chance to take
off with the boat and go free.

The first thing I did was take all the food I could get my hands on.

I told the man we would be far too bold for us to eat any of the bread that had been left on
the boat for the Turk. The man agreed with me so he brought us a
small sack of rice along with some rusks.

I gathered some wine, a big lum of was, a good saw, an axe, a
digging spade, rope and any sort of thing that could be of possible
use to us while the man was on shore.

Knowing where the Turk's wine case was, while the man was on the sohre I put all of that into the
boat. Being very tricky I gathered all of the things I needed. I hollered at the young man,
"The Turk's guns are over there in the boat, but I couldn't find any shot. I want you to get some
shot because you nkow where they kept it. It's possible that we will want to shoot a bird
or two."

Grabbing a case and a pouch he held everything we could want for
our guns.

Putting all of these things into a boat, I set sail out of the port
for fishing.

A Northerly or Northwesterly wind began to blow.

This was a bad wind for me.

I knew it had been a Southerly wind that could have made my way for
the coast of Spain.

But it didn't matter which way the wind blew, my mind was already made up to head out and leave
whatever happened to fate.

Soon, I lowered my fishing lines but took care to have some bad sport.

As soon as the fish bit I didn't want to pull them in for I didn't want the Moor to see them.
I said to him, "This will never do because we aren't going to catch
any fish here. We need to sail on for a bit.

 

It deals with the nature of existence, asking what it is and what its attributes are.
This is somewhat more technical than the way Plato wrote, but if we compare it to what was said
above (p. 142), we can see that they are essentially identical. I.
A REPLY TO THE FIRST ESSAY ON "SUPERNATURAL RELIGION" FROM DR. LIGHTFOOT." (Endnote 1:1)
The function of the critic is very important when it is properly
exersized.

A reviewer that examines serious work needs to receive serious and
respectful consideration even though his stricture may be unpleasant
for someone.

It is impossible for a man to fully separate himself from his work as to judge fairyly the
effects of his work.

In every great work it is certain that flaws and mistakes will occur. However, every writer
feels thankful to anyone who points out his errors and his mistakes. If I speak for myself, I have to
say that I want nothing more than a similar frankess, and the refutation of any arguments which
are thought to be fallacious.

Even though I may be reluctant, to depart from the attitude
of silent attention which should be maintained by writers when facing
criticis, it is somewhat a different issue when criticism assumes
the vicious tone of the Rev. Dr. Lightfoot's article upon Supernatural
Religion in the December number of the "Contemporary Review."

 Ecclesiastic authority as dogma is in direct opposition to reason
and scientific discovery. A poor substitute because when a pope steps
in to settle a disagreement, he often comes down on the incorrect
side. Ruling for a span of 150 years (300-450), the Constantian, Valentinian,
and Theodisian dynasties influenced the history of our island. Their
rule was briefly interrupted by the rule of Julian who was also associated
with the island.