To make the breadth of our life measure up in fulness, we must look with wide open eyes at
everything and everyone in life, and take it at its own point of unfoldment. Not in every life
is found true wisdom of thought and expression, but if we know the truth we will see past all
the undeveloped things within, to the beautiful God-self it is becoming and with wisdom and
power and love include it in our own consciousness, waiting patiently for its development.

To have breadth we must open our ears and our life to the call of the world voice and live
to answer it. We must hear it socially, ethically, individually, financially, politically,
religiously, spiritually, mentally and physically not only in our own way, but in every way
can that one find God within himself before he can find it through humanity; but when measured
by the golden reed for the building of the new self, we must find God or Good in and through
every living creature.

All people love themselves and most people love their own families; and this is right and good
that it is so, but the breadth and height and depth must be equal and that means inclusion
of the universal as well as the personal self. Jesus again told this when he said to the man
who asked him "What shall I do that I may have eternal life?" And He said unto him: "Keep the
commandments" and, "Thou shalt not bear false witness:" "And the young man saith unto Him,
'All these things have I kept from my youth up; what lack I yet?'" So when Jesus measured him
by the reed of breadth and deeper inclusion, he followed him no more, for the height, the breadth
and the depth were not equal.

To give to ourselves and to our own, or to those who seem to have a claim on us for anything,
is good, but, to give to those who have not claim or kinship nor power over us is greatness.
To include them in our own world, not by might or force, but through recognition of union with
the one life--this is consciousness of breadth that remains immortal.

Again, the depth of a life must be equal, and how do we lack in this? There are thousands today
who flit along on the crest of the wave of life's current, butterfly-like; they never really
have a conscious thought. If "it only does not affect me" is their watchword, and freedom from
anything serious is their only really serious problem. They know in an indifferent way that
hearts break, that tears fall, that there are prayers that stagger upward through life's storm,
but the froth and foam of life is in their eyes; they look out on the rim of a life where they
see only self-indulgence, and when now and then they are hushed long enough to listen to the
world cry, they turn away quickly for fear they will actually touch lives with the common people.

So long as they keep afloat they are content, their lack of depth does not disturb them, but
often after they have wasted their all in riotous living, and the realities of life fall upon
them, they cry out from the depth of their own self-made despair; their life was like a palace
built on sand which the first fierce flood tide could destroy; it had no root, no place in
consciousness when measured by the golden reed--the height, the breadth and the depth were unequal.

Unless the soul has root in soil divine, it cannot face earth's overwhelming expressions of
the working out of the human laws which it sets in motion in the round of human living.

The life that would build sublime and lasting things to stand the test of time, must drop its
consciousness into the Absolute, and sink the string of thought into the fathomless!

Lights and shadows are strangely blended all along the human pathway; so from the very center
of the deeps of life the incense of our illumined selves must still send up a faint sweet breath
outward and onward,--then the breadth as touched by the golden reed is equal.

Again, the height of the perfect self is also measured. No house so low but it must have a
window opening to the sky.

Again, there are many lives that touch the golden reed as it measures outward, downward, but
are insensible of upward power.

Above the surge and din of life, amid its sorrows and its strife, the soul that comes under
the glory of the golden reed, must lift itself to the hills of specialized wisdom greater then
the common consciousness.

We can find many noble, moral, natural lives equal in length and breadth and depth, but the
height is lacking. Within many minds is lack of great sublime ideals, ideals that should be
born in the illumined centers of the self. There are many who have no communion with their
source; they are kind, sociable, natural, humanitarian, but lacking in that great wonderful
psychological essence which makes the human half divine; the height of their life is unfinished,
the golden reed is broken; they walk on superior in their knowledge until in some supreme hour
of human grief, their soul is forced through some Gethsemane and opens its eyes to the need
of a strength beyond their own. Death, the grave and love teach them to look up, and hope higher
than the earthly kingdom.

And once more the measure of our soul goes on, and we find that often all is equal, but the
height is over-reached; there are many forgetting breadth and length and depth who measure
into the very hill-tops of illumination, making their whole expression a dream of no value
to themselves or others. They are pure children of spirit; they live in a world peopled with
the dream-children of their mind and everything they produce is vapid and useless in the world
in which they live and have being; everything seems to pass away from them and their productions
are as nothing under the crush and strain of life around.

Use is the world's great test of anything; unless it can be utilized by some one it is valueless
to aid humanity; everything that comes forth into form from any state of consciousness must
prove its own power to persist, or it vanishes and is forgotten.

Nothing too high, nothing too low, nothing too wide, nothing too narrow, too shallow, but all
perfectly adjusted--this is the measure of self, and when we know this the illumined life works
out its own unfoldment, passing at will to any degree of consciousness.

This is the finished product of the life that knows how to specialize in consciousness and
it is made possible through deeper illumination. It gives to everyone the glorious physical,
a depth of perception, radiant with a refined energy and alive with all the latent power of
instinct and harmony, and with this the brilliant mind with its breadth of unanswerable logic,
its fine facts, science of order and laws of physical adjustment. And added to both these we
find the dream vision of the psychic, with the poet's soul of inspiration, sublime ideality
and the gentle tender heart, alive with all the common human emotions; and at last, blended
and transmuted and made vibrant by that great spiritual insight born on the heights of human
revelation we find ourselves whole, grand, developed, humanly divine creatures, walking in
glad comradeship with God.

This is the "Holy Grail" of selfhood and in the light of our higher understanding we look downward
and outward and upward, and the length and the breadth and the height are equal.

Perfect Liberty

"No man liveth to himself and no man dieth to himself."

The more we look at humanity and study its expressions, the more we become convinced of the
truth of these words. It is not hard to see that our human ties are closely knit with everything
and everyone, but it is not always easy to understand how they have come to their sometimes
almost hopeless tangle.

We are a part of everything in the universe, seen and unseen, and as we have within us a response
to every emotion, hope dream, impulse of any kind known or recognized by the human race. As
we study and understand our relationship to people, things and expressions, we cannot help
but grow deeper and deeper into the clearness of the great truth, namely, the universal and
abiding one-ness of man and God.

Some of our relationships in this one-ness are very indistinct and obscure, while some are
very distinct and painfully objectified.

The first Truth for us to take up is this--we have and express in our being and our environment
just these things with which we have related ourselves, either through inherited or acquired
lines of thinking; no one gives to us but ourselves, no one takes away from us but ourselves,
no one is to blame but ourselves whatever we have or have not; we, and we alone, are the architects
of our own fortune or misfortune.

We get everything in life by the law of conscious or unconscious relationship with it through
the simple act of thinking; our thoughts are lines of transference over which may pass to us
not only the things which we desire, but also those which our fear brings down upon us and
which we do not desire.

Unconscious relationship differs from conscious relationship and brings us the things with
which we have connected through the law of omission; conscious relationship is union, and brings
everything into expression under the law of commission.

Both of these lines are constant and their results undeniable, but one brings us the whole,
the constructive, while the other opens our life for the control of the destructive, the limited.

When thinking passes into a fixed power in our life, it may be used to perfect or destroy the
whole mechanism of our present and our future. Long lines of conscious and unconscious thinking
bring about certain expressions, and these expressions in time become a part of our very existence,
and our environment, good or bad, bears witness to this relationship.

One day upon the streets of Boston I saw an old woman selling newspapers; her hair was gray,
her skin brown and wrinkled, her clothing shabby and only half sufficient for the chill of
the hour; she was simply poverty-stricken, and her old, thin, piping voice trembled as she
called her papers in an effort to compete with the crowds of newsboys around her. Many bought
her papers, drawn to her through pity, and her evident need. I felt sorry that with her gray
hair so near the grave life should have only this to offer her, and I sought a reason for it.
I asked her to tell her story.

She was the daughter of a minister; her mother had been the proverbially meek little woman
of history, perfectly fitted to be her father's wife. Her grandfathers on both sides of the
parental tree had been ministers; she gave me a graphic sketch of the long line of concentration
which she had been born into and in which she continued.

There was a long line for concentration and relationship with lowliness of spirit, for grace,
for the utter sinking of self; lack of demand for place or power; lack of self-righteousness,
absolute submission sown through generations, sown for her in her own life. It had to bring
forth its fruit and it did bring it forth in the form of that gray-haired, beautiful, ragged
old woman, who, in the days of her declining years, gathered her harvest on the cold streets
of a rich city, underfed, poor and alone.

She was still true to her inherited concentration, for while I questioned her she said, "Health,
money and happiness were not for her," and that "her family had borne the cross of poverty
and sickness all their lives and borne it nobly, and some day the Father would give them their
reward." Don't you see that the mind that is poised where her mind was, and where her family's
mind had been for generations, could not escape the law which they had built for themselves.

Here was an example of unconscious relationship; can't you see how unwittingly she hourly and
daily made anew her relations with the very things which must by their very nature divorce
her from the things which she never sensed belonged to her. The fixed thinking handed down
to her from the past, bound her like a galley-slave and kept her life held against the law
which was daily destroying her; she was unconsciously related and she remained unconsciously
related to the laws which made for loss and lack in her life, unable to see the paths where
she turned aside from her Father's house, and His universal abundance; blind to her power of
new creating.

When we begin to study our lines of unconscious relationship we find that we are appalled almost
at the ten thousand little tendrils which bind us to our old relationships; we think ourselves
"good easy man" this moment, and the next moment sees us opening the door of our life to thought
forms which if entertained, will certainly become for us a poor relation, and demand our support
for ages. We daily open our lives to endless tramp thoughts which dwell with us and in the
end beggar us.

We need hourly to set a guard on our field of unconsciousness, and absolutely refuse to admit
into our daily mind any thoughts less than those which distinctly relate us with all the beautiful
things of life, and we must never forget the truth of the power of our own personal creations.
We can be what we will to be; we can be related to whatever we choose to be related to; we
can choose this day whom we will serve and start the hour of our rebuilding.

Whatever we have or have not is a positive picture of our relationship and tells to every passer-by
the story of just how well we know how to control, and direct our own thoughts, and whether
we are living unconsciously or consciously.

The way to get the Perfect Liberty for ourselves is to understand fully the secret of relating
ourselves with it through the power of conscious thinking.

The moment that a life desires anything, be it health, wealth or love, it becomes related with
that thing, and the thought establishes a line of direct transference; desire is the first
out-reaching for the things which are necessary to fully develop our life. It is the God-push
within us trying to get our consciousness into expression.

In the past, the educators often called this power of conscious relationship, "persistency";
have you not seen people whom the world called "hobby riders" or "freaks"? These people are
only perverted in the expression of conscious relationship; they hold their relationship to
one thing to the exclusion of every other thing in their life.

It is just as much a form of misdirected energy to sink everything in life to one idea; to
sacrifice health, friends, position, peace, everything, in order to gain one thing, as it is
to have a diverse, indefinite, faltering idea of relationships and purposes. The true position
is between them: ALL things work together for the final good of man, and union with all things,
not one thing, is the law of universal development.

Once we have decided what we want to be related with we can afford to let everything take its
own appointed time and place in our life, bringing everything up in its appointed place. All
that we have to do is to keep our fixed point of attachment with it and this attachment is
made through power thoughts.

Substance is always changing and so is our position to it under the common law, but under the
conscious law of creation we change our position over and over again, but we keep the same
hope until in some expected hour we stand face to face with our hope manifested in form.

There is no use running after anything; no use straining after it! We gain liberty not by resistance,
denial or renunciation, but through union; under the old law we worked on the plane of competition;
in the perfected imaging or thinking we are living under the law of divine attraction, and
whatever we relate ourselves with in thought must come and join us.

When we are under this law thousands of unseen hands reach out to lift us into peace-crowned
heights, and into relation with what we desire.

When sickness has taken the place of health in our life, when disease has crowded out our ease
and comfort, we can know that by a long line of perverted thinking, perhaps both inherited
and acquired, we have become related with those things which are under the law of pain, destruction
and disintegration. We may have done all this thinking unconsciously in the past, but there
is now no excuse for us to go on with this old relationship; it is senseless to again fill
up our field of consciousness with the old thought concepts.

When we know the truth of this transference into form through thought relationship, we have
perfect liberty; we look at ourselves in a new light, and begin to then and there pass this
simple act of thinking into lines which will connect us with just these things which we desire;
we quit forever our thought relationship with conditions which speak for lack or loss or limitations.

We fill our field of consciousness with thoughts of the strong, and the health of life; we
shut out the diseased, the dwarfed, the imperfect. We force the pictures of hospitals and sanatoriums
out of our mind; we look at our bodies no matter how they look, or how much of disease they
are then expressing, and we see only the whole, the new, the complete. We force ourselves to
know nothing but the great ALL HEALTH thoughts; we go back again and again to our relation
with the abundance of health; we make ourselves deaf and blind and dumb to the absence of wholeness
and our body slowly swings into line, and begins to express for us the nature of our conscious
thinking.

We cease to consider ourselves related to anything that we do not want. Disease, pain, lack
of health may have its place in the lesser relationships of the human plane, but it is not
found in the kingdom of consciousness--the all-health within us; it cannot exist in this new
world of spiritual chemicalization with which we have taken up our relations.

When we want this perfect law of liberty, we do not recognize the existence of the old, we
simply occupy our whole thought time with the new things with which we wish to make union.

Every condition of life that we consider desirable for ourselves we convince ourselves is already
ours, we reach out and lay hold of it, and give it a line of transference into our life. This
is not castle building, this is Divine Relationship--the Perfect Law of Liberty!

We see the truth that the strong, the healthy, the happy, the powerful are living in the same
world, in the same universal energy that obtains for the diseased, the weak, the sick, the
unhappy; there is no reason why they may not have every good and perfect gift.

There are almost as many healthy as there are sick in every hospital--the doctors, nurses,
porters, cooks, and servants, all hale and hearty, putting in their whole time caring for those
who are half dead with disease. What makes the difference? Just the difference of relationship.
They have not accepted mentally the same conditions, and even surrounded as they are with the
sick and diseased, they refuse to be bound by the laws which these patients have endowed with
power over themselves.

They have learned the two great truths: There is nothing in all the world that has any power
over us except that with which we endow it, and there is nothing in all the world of which
we need be afraid. Disease and sickness are signals of great negative conditions of mind which
we have recognized in thought, and exalted to the king chair in our life and endowed with power
to hold us in bondage.

