An April rain of loving tears silenced the girl's voice, as she looked out of the carriage
window, and saw Major Hardwicke riding after them. "Tell me no more, now, Darling Alixe," murmured
Nadine, "I must have peace--even in this moment of happiness!" Her thoughts went back to the
day when Harry Hardwicke had ridden "Garibaldi" straight to the rescue, in her moment of deadly
peril, and his saber had fended off the huge cobra. And so, they journeyed on silently-linked
in love, dreaming tender dreams.

In the western skies, the sun was sinking over the purpled sea, as they drove down to Edgemere,
and the glow of the dying day lingered upon the beautiful hills of Jersey. For the wild storm
was quieted and the sea shone as a sapphire zone. Golden gleams lit up stern old Mount Orgueil
and gray Fort Regent, and tenderly tinted the rugged outlines of the moss-grown Elizabeth Castle.
All nature dreamed in the peaceful, even fall. On the sea, white sails were flitting afar,
and the swift steamers passed grandly on toward their distant havens. There was a group gathered
in the splendid gardens of Edgemere as General Wragge gallantly advanced.

The silver-haired veteran graciously surrendered his command, as he aided his guests to alight.
"This is to be 'Bride's Hall,' and not a 'place of arms'! You are now joint commanders, and
so make the best use of your three days liberty! I give up my sword!"

That night, while Nadine Johnstone sat in a heart exchange of confidence with Justine Delande
and the fair woman--no longer Berthe Louison--while Flossie Murray was playing hostess with
Mrs. Wragge, General Wragge, Major Hardwicke, Captain Anstruther, and the now full-fledged
Benedict, Eric Murray, gave some pithy parting counsels to Jack Blunt, "Gentleman Jack," of
the London Swell Mob. "Only a mere fluke, and, our desire to save a family needless pain, protects
you," said Hardwicke. "These five hundred pounds will enable you to reach America. I venture
to advise you to avoid landing on English soil hereafter! You certainly owe something to your
plucky, dead comrade, who generously lied, even in death, to save you from transportation!"
With a sullen brow, Jack Blunt departed the next morning on the Granville steamer, and, only
when in the safe hiding of Etienne Garcin's Cor d'Abondance did he dare to breathe freely.
There were two sorely wounded lodgers already lying there, who cursed the unerring aim of the
vivacious and eccentric Alaric Hobbs of Waukesha. They had told the landlord their tales over
cognac and absinthe, and Jack Blunt vainly tried to comfort the sloe-eyed Angelique, who mourned
for the unreturning visitor who had sprung over the easily-stormed battlements of her mobile
heart. "Il etait bien beau, cet homme la! Il m'aimait beaucoup! Je le regretterai toujours!
C'etait un vrai gaillard!"

Which heartfelt tribute from a nameless wanton served for epitaph to the man lying in an unmarked
grave in the soldiers plot at Fort Regent. With gnashing of teeth did Garcin and Jack Blunt
discover that H. R. M.'s Consul had officially aided Justine Delande to remove the valuable
deposits of the dead adventurer.

"The whole thing was a dead plant on us. Luck turned against him at last!" growled Blunt, as
they counted up the cost of the bootless cruise of the Hirondelle. And only Justine Delande's
bitter tears flowed in silence to lament the bold adventurer who had lost the game of life!

It was at Rosebank that the three brides were assembled for a sweet review after the quiet
double marriage at Edgemere, which caused General Wragge's rugged face to wreathe in honest
smiles of delight.

And there was no rice left in the General's military supplies, "when the bridal parties drove
away in great state to the Stella."

A curious congratulatory visit from Professor Alaric Hobbs led to the extending of an invitation
by Captain Anstruther for the lanky American scientist to visit him in India.

"We owe you a debt of gratitude," laughed Anstruther, "for you helped Hardwicke to his wife.
She helped me to mine, and I will see that the Indian Government gives you an official safe
conduct to Thibet, where you can see the real line of the Dalai-lamas, and I'll furnish you
a veritable 'Moonshee' free of charge. You shall be the very 'Moses' of Yankee investigators!
You deserve it!"

"Now you talk horse sense," said the alert Yankee. "I'm going out to 'square things' with old
Andrew Fraser's son. Don't ever kick a man when he's down! The old boy has had a very 'rough
deal.' That 'fake' about Thibet nearly broke him up. And I've a commission from the Buggin's
Literary Syndicate, of Chicago, to 'write up India.' I shall take a hack at Egypt on my way
home, and perhaps ride over to Persia, then get into Merv and Tashkend, and come back by Astrakhan
into 'darkest' Russia, and return home. I shall also write some spicy letters to the Chicago
Howler and the New York Whorl. I tell you, Cap," said Alaric Hobbes, slapping Anstruther familiarly
on the back, "you three military men have certainly fitted yourselves out with tiptop wives!
I am going to make a pretty good money haul myself on this trip. I'll look you up later in
Calcutta. Would like to see the Viceroy. He was a 'brick' when he was Governor-General of Canada.
So I'll get young Douglas Fraser fixed up all in good trim, and when I get home and have published
my books, settle down and marry a little woman I've had my eye on for some time. I will go
in for a family life, you bet!"

"Look out that you don't lose her," laughed Hardwicke.

"I will not get left, you bet!" cried Hobbes. "Now, I'm going to vamoose the ranch. I think
that I may have killed one or two of that gang, and I don't fancy the 'monotonous regularity'
and 'salubrious hygiene' of your English prisons."

And so, "his feet were beautiful on the mountains," as he went out on his queer life pathway.

After the week of quiet at Rosebank, Captain Eric Murray was hugely delighted to receive his
orders to take charge of all Anstruther's confidential work, in England, until the Viceroy
should be pleased to otherwise direct. "I think that a garrison life here, with Miss Mildred
as commander, will just suit you and Madame Flossie?" laughed the kindly conspiring aide-de-camp,
anxious to be away on his road to Jitomir, "personally conducted" by the brilliant Alixe.

The Horse Guards were "pleased to intimate" that Major Harry Hardwicke, Royal Engineers, should
be allowed "such length of leave" as he chose to apply for, and a secret compliment upon his
"gift to the Crown" of the recovered property was supplemented by a request to name any future
station "agreeable at present" to the young Benedict. And the solicitors had now deftly arranged
the complete machinery of the care of the great estate, until the orphan claimed her own.

While Jules Victor and Marie prepared Madame Anstruther for her state visit of triumph to Volhynia,
Hardwicke and Anstruther soon closed up all their reports to Calcutta. With due cordiality,
the unsuspicious Douglas Fraser had wired his congratulations to his gentle cousin; and General
Willoughby, and His Excellency, the Viceroy, were also heard from, in the same way. It was
the gallant General Abercromby who spread the news of Anstruther's marriage in the club. "Ah!"
he enthusiastically cried, "A monstrous fine woman--came near marrying her myself!" which was
a gigantic "whopper!"

