He was justified by the event; for the footpath soon after appeared a little wider and more
worn, and the tinkle of a small bell gave the knight to understand that he was in the vicinity
of some chapel or hermitage.

Accordingly, he soon reached an open plat of turf, on the opposite side of which, a rock, rising
abruptly from a gently sloping plain, offered its grey and weatherbeaten front to the traveller.
Ivy mantled its sides in some places, and in others oaks and holly bushes, whose roots found
nourishment in the cliffs of the crag, waved over the precipices below, like the plumage of
the warrior over his steel helmet, giving grace to that whose chief expression was terror.
At the bottom of the rock, and leaning, as it were, against it, was constructed a rude hut,
built chiefly of the trunks of trees felled in the neighbouring forest, and secured against
the weather by having its crevices stuffed with moss mingled with clay. The stem of a young
fir-tree lopped of its branches, with a piece of wood tied across near the top, was planted
upright by the door, as a rude emblem of the holy cross. At a little distance on the right
hand, a fountain of the purest water trickled out of the rock, and was received in a hollow
stone, which labour had formed into a rustic basin. Escaping from thence, the stream murmured
down the descent by a channel which its course had long worn, and so wandered through the little
plain to lose itself in the neighbouring wood.

Beside this fountain were the ruins of a very small chapel, of which the roof had partly fallen
in. The building, when entire, had never been above sixteen feet long by twelve feet in breadth,
and the roof, low in proportion, rested upon four concentric arches which sprung from the four
corners of the building, each supported upon a short and heavy pillar. The ribs of two of these
arches remained, though the roof had fallen down betwixt them; over the others it remained
entire. The entrance to this ancient place of devotion was under a very low round arch, ornamented
by several courses of that zig-zag moulding, resembling shark's teeth, which appears so often
in the more ancient Saxon architecture. A belfry rose above the porch on four small pillars,
within which hung the green and weatherbeaten bell, the feeble sounds of which had been some
time before heard by the Black Knight.

The whole peaceful and quiet scene lay glimmering in twilight before the eyes of the traveller,
giving him good assurance of lodging for the night; since it was a special duty of those hermits
who dwelt in the woods, to exercise hospitality towards benighted or bewildered passengers.

Accordingly, the knight took no time to consider minutely the particulars which we have detailed,
but thanking Saint Julian (the patron of travellers) who had sent him good harbourage, he leaped
from his horse and assailed the door of the hermitage with the butt of his lance, in order
to arouse attention and gain admittance.

It was some time before he obtained any answer, and the reply, when made, was unpropitious.

"Pass on, whosoever thou art," was the answer given by a deep hoarse voice from within the
hut, "and disturb not the servant of God and St Dunstan in his evening devotions."

"Worthy father," answered the knight, "here is a poor wanderer bewildered in these woods, who
gives thee the opportunity of exercising thy charity and hospitality."

"Good brother," replied the inhabitant of the hermitage, "it has pleased Our Lady and St Dunstan
to destine me for the object of those virtues, instead of the exercise thereof. I have no provisions
here which even a dog would share with me, and a horse of any tenderness of nurture would despise
my couch--pass therefore on thy way, and God speed thee."

"But how," replied the knight, "is it possible for me to find my way through such a wood as
this, when darkness is coming on? I pray you, reverend father as you are a Christian, to undo
your door, and at least point out to me my road."

"And I pray you, good Christian brother," replied the anchorite, "to disturb me no more. You
have already interrupted one 'pater', two 'aves', and a 'credo', which I, miserable sinner
that I am, should, according to my vow, have said before moonrise."

"The road--the road!" vociferated the knight, "give me directions for the road, if I am to
expect no more from thee."

"The road," replied the hermit, "is easy to hit. The path from the wood leads to a morass,
and from thence to a ford, which, as the rains have abated, may now be passable. When thou
hast crossed the ford, thou wilt take care of thy footing up the left bank, as it is somewhat
precipitous; and the path, which hangs over the river, has lately, as I learn, (for I seldom
leave the duties of my chapel,) given way in sundry places. Thou wilt then keep straight forward---"

"A broken path--a precipice--a ford, and a morass!" said the knight interrupting him,--"Sir
Hermit, if you were the holiest that ever wore beard or told bead, you shall scarce prevail
on me to hold this road to-night. I tell thee, that thou, who livest by the charity of the
country--ill deserved, as I doubt it is--hast no right to refuse shelter to the wayfarer when
in distress. Either open the door quickly, or, by the rood, I will beat it down and make entry
for myself."

"Friend wayfarer," replied the hermit, "be not importunate; if thou puttest me to use the carnal
weapon in mine own defence, it will be e'en the worse for you."

At this moment a distant noise of barking and growling, which the traveller had for some time
heard, became extremely loud and furious, and made the knight suppose that the hermit, alarmed
by his threat of making forcible entry, had called the dogs who made this clamour to aid him
in his defence, out of some inner recess in which they had been kennelled. Incensed at this
preparation on the hermit's part for making good his inhospitable purpose, the knight struck
the door so furiously with his foot, that posts as well as staples shook with violence.

The anchorite, not caring again to expose his door to a similar shock, now called out aloud,
"Patience, patience--spare thy strength, good traveller, and I will presently undo the door,
though, it may be, my doing so will be little to thy pleasure."

The door accordingly was opened; and the hermit, a large, strong-built man, in his sackcloth
gown and hood, girt with a rope of rushes, stood before the knight. He had in one hand a lighted
torch, or link, and in the other a baton of crab-tree, so thick and heavy, that it might well
be termed a club. Two large shaggy dogs, half greyhound half mastiff, stood ready to rush upon
the traveller as soon as the door should be opened. But when the torch glanced upon the lofty
crest and golden spurs of the knight, who stood without, the hermit, altering probably his
original intentions, repressed the rage of his auxiliaries, and, changing his tone to a sort
of churlish courtesy, invited the knight to enter his hut, making excuse for his unwillingness
to open his lodge after sunset, by alleging the multitude of robbers and outlaws who were abroad,
and who gave no honour to Our Lady or St Dunstan, nor to those holy men who spent life in their
service.

"The poverty of your cell, good father," said the knight, looking around him, and seeing nothing
but a bed of leaves, a crucifix rudely carved in oak, a missal, with a rough-hewn table and
two stools, and one or two clumsy articles of furniture--"the poverty of your cell should seem
a sufficient defence against any risk of thieves, not to mention the aid of two trusty dogs,
large and strong enough, I think, to pull down a stag, and of course, to match with most men."

"The good keeper of the forest," said the hermit, "hath allowed me the use of these animals,
to protect my solitude until the times shall mend."

Having said this, he fixed his torch in a twisted branch of iron which served for a candlestick;
and, placing the oaken trivet before the embers of the fire, which he refreshed with some dry
wood, he placed a stool upon one side of the table, and beckoned to the knight to do the same
upon the other.

They sat down, and gazed with great gravity at each other, each thinking in his heart that
he had seldom seen a stronger or more athletic figure than was placed opposite to him.

"Reverend hermit," said the knight, after looking long and fixedly at his host, "were it not
to interrupt your devout meditations, I would pray to know three things of your holiness; first,
where I am to put my horse?--secondly, what I can have for supper?--thirdly, where I am to
take up my couch for the night?"

"I will reply to you," said the hermit, "with my finger, it being against my rule to speak
by words where signs can answer the purpose." So saying, he pointed successively to two corners
of the hut. "Your stable," said he, "is there--your bed there; and," reaching down a platter
with two handfuls of parched pease upon it from the neighbouring shelf, and placing it upon
the table, he added, "your supper is here."

The knight shrugged his shoulders, and leaving the hut, brought in his horse, (which in the
interim he had fastened to a tree,) unsaddled him with much attention, and spread upon the
steed's weary back his own mantle.

The hermit was apparently somewhat moved to compassion by the anxiety as well as address which
the stranger displayed in tending his horse; for, muttering something about provender left
for the keeper's palfrey, he dragged out of a recess a bundle of forage, which he spread before
the knight's charger, and immediately afterwards shook down a quantity of dried fern in the
corner which he had assigned for the rider's couch. The knight returned him thanks for his
courtesy; and, this duty done, both resumed their seats by the table, whereon stood the trencher
of pease placed between them. The hermit, after a long grace, which had once been Latin, but
of which original language few traces remained, excepting here and there the long rolling termination
of some word or phrase, set example to his guest, by modestly putting into a very large mouth,
furnished with teeth which might have ranked with those of a boar both in sharpness and whiteness,
some three or four dried pease, a miserable grist as it seemed for so large and able a mill.

The knight, in order to follow so laudable an example, laid aside his helmet, his corslet,
and the greater part of his armour, and showed to the hermit a head thick-curled with yellow
hair, high features, blue eyes, remarkably bright and sparkling, a mouth well formed, having
an upper lip clothed with mustachoes darker than his hair, and bearing altogether the look
of a bold, daring, and enterprising man, with which his strong form well corresponded.

The hermit, as if wishing to answer to the confidence of his guest, threw back his cowl, and
showed a round bullet head belonging to a man in the prime of life. His close-shaven crown,
surrounded by a circle of stiff curled black hair, had something the appearance of a parish
pinfold begirt by its high hedge. The features expressed nothing of monastic austerity, or
of ascetic privations; on the contrary, it was a bold bluff countenance, with broad black eyebrows,
a well-turned forehead, and cheeks as round and vermilion as those of a trumpeter, from which
descended a long and curly black beard. Such a visage, joined to the brawny form of the holy
man, spoke rather of sirloins and haunches, than of pease and pulse. This incongruity did not
escape the guest. After he had with great difficulty accomplished the mastication of a mouthful
of the dried pease, he found it absolutely necessary to request his pious entertainer to furnish
him with some liquor; who replied to his request by placing before him a large can of the purest
water from the fountain.

"It is from the well of St Dunstan," said he, "in which, betwixt sun and sun, he baptized five
hundred heathen Danes and Britons--blessed be his name!" And applying his black beard to the
pitcher, he took a draught much more moderate in quantity than his encomium seemed to warrant.

"It seems to me, reverend father," said the knight, "that the small morsels which you eat,
together with this holy, but somewhat thin beverage, have thriven with you marvellously. You
appear a man more fit to win the ram at a wrestling match, or the ring at a bout at quarter-staff,
or the bucklers at a sword-play, than to linger out your time in this desolate wilderness,
saying masses, and living upon parched pease and cold water."

"Sir Knight," answered the hermit, "your thoughts, like those of the ignorant laity, are according
to the flesh. It has pleased Our Lady and my patron saint to bless the pittance to which I
restrain myself, even as the pulse and water was blessed to the children Shadrach, Meshech,
and Abednego, who drank the same rather than defile themselves with the wine and meats which
were appointed them by the King of the Saracens."

"Holy father," said the knight, "upon whose countenance it hath pleased Heaven to work such
a miracle, permit a sinful layman to crave thy name?"

"Thou mayst call me," answered the hermit, "the Clerk of Copmanhurst, for so I am termed in
these parts--They add, it is true, the epithet holy, but I stand not upon that, as being unworthy
of such addition.--And now, valiant knight, may I pray ye for the name of my honourable guest?"

"Truly," said the knight, "Holy Clerk of Copmanhurst, men call me in these parts the Black
Knight,--many, sir, add to it the epithet of Sluggard, whereby I am no way ambitious to be
distinguished."

The hermit could scarcely forbear from smiling at his guest's reply.

"I see," said he, "Sir Sluggish Knight, that thou art a man of prudence and of counsel; and
moreover, I see that my poor monastic fare likes thee not, accustomed, perhaps, as thou hast
been, to the license of courts and of camps, and the luxuries of cities; and now I bethink
me, Sir Sluggard, that when the charitable keeper of this forest-walk left those dogs for my
protection, and also those bundles of forage, he left me also some food, which, being unfit
for my use, the very recollection of it had escaped me amid my more weighty meditations."

"I dare be sworn he did so," said the knight; "I was convinced that there was better food in
the cell, Holy Clerk, since you first doffed your cowl.--Your keeper is ever a jovial fellow;
and none who beheld thy grinders contending with these pease, and thy throat flooded with this
ungenial element, could see thee doomed to such horse-provender and horse-beverage," (pointing
to the provisions upon the table,) "and refrain from mending thy cheer. Let us see the keeper's
bounty, therefore, without delay."

The hermit cast a wistful look upon the knight, in which there was a sort of comic expression
of hesitation, as if uncertain how far he should act prudently in trusting his guest. There
was, however, as much of bold frankness in the knight's countenance as was possible to be expressed
by features. His smile, too, had something in it irresistibly comic, and gave an assurance
of faith and loyalty, with which his host could not refrain from sympathizing.

After exchanging a mute glance or two, the hermit went to the further side of the hut, and
opened a hutch, which was concealed with great care and some ingenuity. Out of the recesses
of a dark closet, into which this aperture gave admittance, he brought a large pasty, baked
in a pewter platter of unusual dimensions. This mighty dish he placed before his guest, who,
using his poniard to cut it open, lost no time in making himself acquainted with its contents.

"How long is it since the good keeper has been here?" said the knight to his host, after having
swallowed several hasty morsels of this reinforcement to the hermit's good cheer.

"About two months," answered the father hastily.

"By the true Lord," answered the knight, "every thing in your hermitage is miraculous, Holy
Clerk! for I would have been sworn that the fat buck which furnished this venison had been
running on foot within the week."

The hermit was somewhat discountenanced by this observation; and, moreover, he made but a poor
figure while gazing on the diminution of the pasty, on which his guest was making desperate
inroads; a warfare in which his previous profession of abstinence left him no pretext for joining.

"I have been in Palestine, Sir Clerk," said the knight, stopping short of a sudden, "and I
bethink me it is a custom there that every host who entertains a guest shall assure him of
the wholesomeness of his food, by partaking of it along with him. Far be it from me to suspect
so holy a man of aught inhospitable; nevertheless I will be highly bound to you would you comply
with this Eastern custom."

"To ease your unnecessary scruples, Sir Knight, I will for once depart from my rule," replied
the hermit. And as there were no forks in those days, his clutches were instantly in the bowels
of the pasty.

The ice of ceremony being once broken, it seemed matter of rivalry between the guest and the
entertainer which should display the best appetite; and although the former had probably fasted
longest, yet the hermit fairly surpassed him.

"Holy Clerk," said the knight, when his hunger was appeased, "I would gage my good horse yonder
against a zecchin, that that same honest keeper to whom we are obliged for the venison has
left thee a stoup of wine, or a runlet of canary, or some such trifle, by way of ally to this
noble pasty. This would be a circumstance, doubtless, totally unworthy to dwell in the memory
of so rigid an anchorite; yet, I think, were you to search yonder crypt once more, you would
find that I am right in my conjecture."

The hermit only replied by a grin; and returning to the hutch, he produced a leathern bottle,
which might contain about four quarts. He also brought forth two large drinking cups, made
out of the horn of the urus, and hooped with silver. Having made this goodly provision for
washing down the supper, he seemed to think no farther ceremonious scruple necessary on his
part; but filling both cups, and saying, in the Saxon fashion, "'Waes hael', Sir Sluggish Knight!"
he emptied his own at a draught.

"'Drink hael', Holy Clerk of Copmanhurst!" answered the warrior, and did his host reason in
a similar brimmer.

"Holy Clerk," said the stranger, after the first cup was thus swallowed, "I cannot but marvel
that a man possessed of such thews and sinews as thine, and who therewithal shows the talent
of so goodly a trencher-man, should think of abiding by himself in this wilderness. In my judgment,
you are fitter to keep a castle or a fort, eating of the fat and drinking of the strong, than
to live here upon pulse and water, or even upon the charity of the keeper. At least, were I
as thou, I should find myself both disport and plenty out of the king's deer. There is many
a goodly herd in these forests, and a buck will never be missed that goes to the use of Saint
Dunstan's chaplain."

"Sir Sluggish Knight," replied the Clerk, "these are dangerous words, and I pray you to forbear
them. I am true hermit to the king and law, and were I to spoil my liege's game, I should be
sure of the prison, and, an my gown saved me not, were in some peril of hanging."

"Nevertheless, were I as thou," said the knight, "I would take my walk by moonlight, when foresters
and keepers were warm in bed, and ever and anon,--as I pattered my prayers,--I would let fly
a shaft among the herds of dun deer that feed in the glades--Resolve me, Holy Clerk, hast thou
never practised such a pastime?"

"Friend Sluggard," answered the hermit, "thou hast seen all that can concern thee of my housekeeping,
and something more than he deserves who takes up his quarters by violence. Credit me, it is
better to enjoy the good which God sends thee, than to be impertinently curious how it comes.
Fill thy cup, and welcome; and do not, I pray thee, by further impertinent enquiries, put me
to show that thou couldst hardly have made good thy lodging had I been earnest to oppose thee."

"By my faith," said the knight, "thou makest me more curious than ever! Thou art the most mysterious
hermit I ever met; and I will know more of thee ere we part. As for thy threats, know, holy
man, thou speakest to one whose trade it is to find out danger wherever it is to be met with."

"Sir Sluggish Knight, I drink to thee," said the hermit; "respecting thy valour much, but deeming
wondrous slightly of thy discretion. If thou wilt take equal arms with me, I will give thee,
in all friendship and brotherly love, such sufficing penance and complete absolution, that
thou shalt not for the next twelve months sin the sin of excess of curiosity."

The knight pledged him, and desired him to name his weapons.

"There is none," replied the hermit, "from the scissors of Delilah, and the tenpenny nail of
Jael, to the scimitar of Goliath, at which I am not a match for thee--But, if I am to make
the election, what sayst thou, good friend, to these trinkets?"

Thus speaking, he opened another hutch, and took out from it a couple of broadswords and bucklers,
such as were used by the yeomanry of the period. The knight, who watched his motions, observed
that this second place of concealment was furnished with two or three good long-bows, a cross-bow,
a bundle of bolts for the latter, and half-a-dozen sheaves of arrows for the former. A harp,
and other matters of a very uncanonical appearance, were also visible when this dark recess
was opened.

"I promise thee, brother Clerk," said he, "I will ask thee no more offensive questions. The
contents of that cupboard are an answer to all my enquiries; and I see a weapon there" (here
he stooped and took out the harp) "on which I would more gladly prove my skill with thee, than
at the sword and buckler."

"I hope, Sir Knight," said the hermit, "thou hast given no good reason for thy surname of the
Sluggard. I do promise thee I suspect thee grievously. Nevertheless, thou art my guest, and
I will not put thy manhood to the proof without thine own free will. Sit thee down, then, and
fill thy cup; let us drink, sing, and be merry. If thou knowest ever a good lay, thou shalt
be welcome to a nook of pasty at Copmanhurst so long as I serve the chapel of St Dunstan, which,
please God, shall be till I change my grey covering for one of green turf. But come, fill a
flagon, for it will crave some time to tune the harp; and nought pitches the voice and sharpens
the ear like a cup of wine. For my part, I love to feel the grape at my very finger-ends before
they make the harp-strings tinkle." [22]

CHAPTER XVII

     At eve, within yon studious nook,
     I ope my brass-embossed book,
     Portray'd with many a holy deed
     Of martyrs crown'd with heavenly meed;
     Then, as my taper waxes dim,
     Chant, ere I sleep, my measured hymn.
     * * * * *
     Who but would cast his pomp away,
     To take my staff and amice grey,
     And to the world's tumultuous stage,
     Prefer the peaceful Hermitage?
     --Warton

Notwithstanding the prescription of the genial hermit, with which his guest willingly complied,
he found it no easy matter to bring the harp to harmony.

"Methinks, holy father," said he, "the instrument wants one string, and the rest have been
somewhat misused."

"Ay, mark'st thou that?" replied the hermit; "that shows thee a master of the craft. Wine and
wassail," he added, gravely casting up his eyes--"all the fault of wine and wassail!--I told
Allan-a-Dale, the northern minstrel, that he would damage the harp if he touched it after the
seventh cup, but he would not be controlled--Friend, I drink to thy successful performance."

So saying, he took off his cup with much gravity, at the same time shaking his head at the
intemperance of the Scottish harper.

The knight in the meantime, had brought the strings into some order, and after a short prelude,
asked his host whether he would choose a "sirvente" in the language of "oc", or a "lai" in
the language of "oui", or a "virelai", or a ballad in the vulgar English. [23]

"A ballad, a ballad," said the hermit, "against all the 'ocs' and 'ouis' of France. Downright
English am I, Sir Knight, and downright English was my patron St Dunstan, and scorned 'oc'
and 'oui', as he would have scorned the parings of the devil's hoof--downright English alone
shall be sung in this cell."

"I will assay, then," said the knight, "a ballad composed by a Saxon glee-man, whom I knew
in Holy Land."

It speedily appeared, that if the knight was not a complete master of the minstrel art, his
taste for it had at least been cultivated under the best instructors. Art had taught him to
soften the faults of a voice which had little compass, and was naturally rough rather than
mellow, and, in short, had done all that culture can do in supplying natural deficiencies.
His performance, therefore, might have been termed very respectable by abler judges than the
hermit, especially as the knight threw into the notes now a degree of spirit, and now of plaintive
enthusiasm, which gave force and energy to the verses which he sung.

     THE CRUSADER'S RETURN.

     1.

     High deeds achieved of knightly fame,
     From Palestine the champion came;
     The cross upon his shoulders borne,
     Battle and blast had dimm'd and torn.
     Each dint upon his batter'd shield
     Was token of a foughten field;
     And thus, beneath his lady's bower,
     He sung as fell the twilight hour:--

     2.

     "Joy to the fair!--thy knight behold,
     Return'd from yonder land of gold;
     No wealth he brings, nor wealth can need,
     Save his good arms and battle-steed
     His spurs, to dash against a foe,
     His lance and sword to lay him low;
     Such all the trophies of his toil,
     Such--and the hope of Tekla's smile!

     3.

     "Joy to the fair! whose constant knight
     Her favour fired to feats of might;
     Unnoted shall she not remain,
     Where meet the bright and noble train;
     Minstrel shall sing and herald tell--
     'Mark yonder maid of beauty well,
     'Tis she for whose bright eyes were won
     The listed field at Askalon!

     4.

     "'Note well her smile!--it edged the blade
     Which fifty wives to widows made,
     When, vain his strength and Mahound's spell,
     Iconium's turban'd Soldan fell.
     Seest thou her locks, whose sunny glow
     Half shows, half shades, her neck of snow?
     Twines not of them one golden thread,
     But for its sake a Paynim bled.'

     5.

     "Joy to the fair!--my name unknown,
     Each deed, and all its praise thine own
     Then, oh! unbar this churlish gate,
     The night dew falls, the hour is late.
     Inured to Syria's glowing breath,
     I feel the north breeze chill as death;
     Let grateful love quell maiden shame,
     And grant him bliss who brings thee fame."

During this performance, the hermit demeaned himself much like a first-rate critic of the present
day at a new opera. It was the first warning. If before the third had not killed the
bull, it would be returned to the yard, leaving the sword under the
weight of the greater disgrace.

Gallardo, as if awakened from their sleepwalking, terrified by this
threat, he horizontal the sword and threw himself on the bull.

A lunge again, that did not penetrate into the body much of the beast.

The left sword hang their arms in despair. But this bug was immortal ... Lunges did not cause a
dent. It seemed that it would not fall anymore.

The futility of the last coup angered the public. Everyone stood up. The whistles were deafening,
forcing women to cover their ears. Many brewing, throwing his body Later, as if to throw into
the square. Oranges fell in the sand, crusts pan, seat cushions, such as fast projectiles for the
killer. The lines of stentorian voices sun came out, roaring like
that of a steam whistle, which seemed impossible were the product
of a human throat.

Occasionally sounded a loud bell with a touch of alarm. Near the bullpen, a large choir sang
the dirge of the dead.

Many volvíanse to the presidency. When will the second warning? The cleanup Gallardo sweat with
a handkerchief, looking all around, as if surprised at the injustice
of the public, and being responsible for the bull that happened.

At this time the stage was set for Dona Sol This turned his back to avoid seeing the ring, you
may be pitied, perhaps I was ashamed of her condescension in the past.

Again he threw himself to kill, and very few could see what he did, because he concealed layers
open incessantly about him ... Fell the bull, throwing a pipe through the mouth with blood.

At last!

... The audience quieted down, ceasing to slapping, but continued shouting and whistling. The animal
was topped by the nailer, you pulled the sword, was engaged by the forehead to throw mules and dragged
across the arena, leaving a wide strip of land packed, and trails of blood that hits the waiters
deleted with rake and baskets Sandy.

Gallardo was hidden between the barriers, fleeing the offensive protest to raise his presence.
He remained there, tired and panting, with a sore leg, feeling of
disappointment among the satisfaction of being free from danger.

Did not die on the horns of the beast ... but I owed it to his discretion. Ah, the public!
Crowd of murderers who crave death a man, as if only they love life and have a family! ...

The output of the square was sad, when through the crowd that occupied the area around the circus
of carriages and cars, long lines of trams.

Gallardo's car rolled with slow pace, not to run over spectators groups leaving the plaza. They
departed to the mules, but he recognized the sword seemed sorry for
your kindness.

Gallardo sensed the movement of his lips tremendous injuries. Passed by the car other carriages occupied
by beautiful women with white blankets. Some turned their heads, as not to see the bullfighter,
others looked at him with eyes of pity heartbreaking.

The achicábase sword as if to go unnoticed, was behind the bulk the
National, frowning and silent.

A group of boys began to whistle along the carriage.

Many who were standing sidewalk imitated them, believing their revenge
and poverty that had forced them to stay an afternoon outside the
square hoping to see something.

The news of the failure of Gallardo had circulated among them, and insulted him, happy to humiliate
a man who earned enormous wealth.

The protest took the sword from his resigned silence.

- Cursed be! ... But why Sirba? "Han is perhaps in the running? ...
Do you have Costao the money?

...

A stone smashed into a car wheel. The vagabonds shouting along to the bracket, but came Two
guards on horseback and rid the demonstration, then escorted in style of the famous Calle de
Alcala Juan Gallardo ... "The man in the world."

X

Crews had just come out into the arena, when sounded loud knocks on the door Stables.

An employee of the square came to her crying with temper. Not coming through there, should find
another door. But a voice answered from out strongly and opened.

Came a man and a woman with white hat he Cordoba, she dressed in black
and mantilla.

The man shook hands with the employee, leaving in it something that humanized his fierce gesture.

-
I conose Nah, you, do not ?...-- said the newcomer -.

What I do not see cones? ... I Gallardo wedge, and this lady is his wife.

Carmen looked around at the abandoned courtyard. In the distance, behind the stout walls brick, hear
the music and could feel the breath of the crowd, cut screams Rumors
of enthusiasm and curiosity.

Crews were paraded before the president.

- Where is it? - Nervously asked Carmen.

- Where have you in this, woman? - Said the brother rudely -. In fulfilling its obligasión PLASA ... It's
crazy to have come, a nonsense.

This character so weak that I have!

Carmen continued to look around her, but with some hesitation, as have repented got there. What
would I do? ...

The employee, moved by the handshake Antonio and the relationship of those two People with a famous
matador, showed himself obliging.

If he wanted to await the completion lady the party could rely on the caretaker's house. If you
wanted to see the race, he would know put in a good place but do not carry cash.

Carmen shuddered with this proposition. Does watching the race? ... No. He had come to the square
with an effort of will, and he regretted it. He could not withstanding her husband in the ring.
She had never seen bullfighting.

He would wait there until it could more.

- Take Dio! - Said with resignation the saddler -. We quearemos, I do not know what to paint
here in front of the riding center.

Since the day before Encarnacion's husband was behind her sister,
suffering shocks and tears of an excited nervous fear.

On Saturday at noon, Carmen had spoken in the office of teacher. It
is going to Madrid!

Was committed to this journey. I could not live in Seville. Took about a week of insomnia, seeing
horrific scenes in their imagination. Her feminine instinct seemed
to tell a great danger.

Needed to run alongside John. I did not know for what purpose or what I could get on the trip,
but longed to be with Gallardo, with the loving desire to create
standing lessen the danger about your loved one.

That was not live. Had learned from the newspapers of the great failure of John on Sunday earlier
in the plaza in Madrid. Professional pride knew bullfighter guess
not tolerated with resignation this setback.

Going to do crazy things to win back the applause the public. The last letter he had received
from the vaguely implied.

- No, no - he said briskly to his brother -. I'm going to Madrid this afternoon. If you quies
me accompany, if not wishing to come, I'll go alone.

On too, not a word to Don Jose: I would clog the journey ... This does not know more than the mummy.

The
leather agreed. A free trip to Madrid, though it was in sad company! ... During Along the way,
Carmen gave shape to their desires. Strongly speak to her husband. Why continue toreando? Did
not they have enough to live? ... Should retire, but immediately, otherwise it would perish.
It was necessary that this run was the last ... Even this seemed too much. Madrid came in time
to prevent her husband torease afternoon. He said the heart their presence was to prevent a
disaster.

But the brother protested with great fanfare at this.

- What barbarism!

What you are women! It puts you one thing cabesa, and that has to be. Do you think there is
no authority, no laws or rules of place, and that it was sufficient
to woman comes to mind embrace the fear tené mario, pa to suspend
ran and quee the public a parm Naris?

... You say what you want John, but will aluego of the running.

The author does not play, we would go to the Carsel toos.

And the saddler imagined the most dramatic consequences if he persisted
in his foolish Carmen idea presented to the husband, preventing it
torease.

The worn them all. He looked already in prison as an accomplice to this act, which in its simplicity
considered a crime.

When they arrived in Madrid had to make new efforts to prevent their
partners are at the hotel where her husband was.

What was going to get through this?

...

- What are you going to chance your presensia, and go to the plaza aluego bad smoke, no serenity,
and if you argo happens, you will have the CURP.

This reflection tamed Carmen, causing them to surrender to the direction of his brother. Was allowed
lead to a hotel that he chose, and there was all the morning, lying on a sofa in his room,
crying, as if by some misfortune give.

The leather, be happy in Madrid, improperly installed, indignant against this despair, which
seemed ridiculous.

- Vamo, man! ... What you are women! One would think that you are a widow, and you Mario is breezed
this time as preparation for the running, Gen and healthy as Roger
himself Flor.

What tontunas!

Carmen just had lunch, deaf to the praise that taxed his brother the
chef the establishment.

In the afternoon, his resignation became to fade.

The hotel was located near the Puerta del Sol, and reached her noise and movement of people going
to the race. No, I could not stay in this strange room while her husband risked his life. Needed
to see. He lacked the courage to bear the sight the show, but I wanted to feel close to him:
he wanted to go to the plaza. Where would plaza? ... I had never seen. If he could not enter
it, wander around.

The important thing was to feel close, believing that this approach could influence the fate
of Gallardo.

The leather protested. For life ...! He had intended to attend the race; had left the hotel
to buy a ticket, and now Carmen aguaba the party with its commitment go to the plaza.

- But what are you doing there, baby? What are you going to remedy your presensia? ... Imagine,
if Juaniyo yega to see you.

Discussed at length, but the woman objected to all your reasons the same answer persistent:

- Do not come with me ... I'll go alone.

He finished his brother to surrender, and a rental car went to the square, entering it Stables
in the door. The leather is remembered much of the circus and its dependencies after Gallardo accompanied
one of his trips to Madrid for the spring run.

He and the staff showed themselves undecided and cranky woman with red eyes and sunken cheeks, still
planted in the yard not knowing what to do ... The two men they felt attracted by the sound
of the crowd and the music played on the square. Would they be there
all afternoon, without seeing the run?

...

The employee had a brainstorm.

- If the lady wants to go to the chapel ...

He had finished the parade
of the crews.

On the door leading into the arena again some trotting horses. Were the picks that did not round
and withdrew from the arena to replace their colleagues when they reached the turn. Tied to
a ring the wall were lined up six jacos saddled the first they had to leave the arena to replace
casualties. Behind them, the waiting choppers entertained by evolving their horses. A manager
of the stables, riding a skittish horse and brave, made her gallop
around the corral to fatigue, then delivering it to the boobies.

Coceaban the jacos, martyred by flies, pulling the ring as if he guessed
the nearby danger.

The other horses trotted, inflamed by the spurs of the cavalry.

Carmen and her husband had to take shelter under the arcades, and
finally accepted the wife of the bullfighter the invitation to go
to chapel.

It was a safe and quiet, and there could do something of benefit to her husband.

When he was in the holy part of a dense atmosphere by respiration of the public who had witnessed
the prayer of the bullfighters, Carmen fixed his eyes on the poverty of the altar. Burning four lights
at the Virgen de la Paloma, but she seemed to mean this tax.

She opened her purse to take a drive to the employee. Could not bring
more candles?

... The man scratched a temple. "Candles? "Candles? ... In the personal property of the square did
not think to find them.

But suddenly remembered the sisters of a matador, who brought candles where he was fighting.
Latest had just consumed, and should be stored in some corner of
the chapel.

After long gleanings found them. Candlesticks were missing, but the employee, human resources,
brought a couple empty bottles, and entering in your neck of the candles, lit them, placing them
next the other lights.

Carmen was kneeling, and the two men took advantage of her immobility
to run the square, eager to witness the first sets of the race.

He was curious women in contemplation of the blur, red by the lights.

No Madonna knew this, but should be sweet and kind as that of Seville, to which many Sometimes
he begged. It was also the Virgin of the bullfighters, which listened to their prayers Last time, when
danger was near the rough men pious sincerity. On that ground was kneeling her husband many times.
This thought was enough to who felt drawn to the picture, contemplating with religious trust,
which if known since childhood.

Moviéronse his lips repeating sentences with speed automatic, but
his thought fled Prayer, as drawn by the noise of the crowd that came
to her.

Oh, that intermittent roar of the volcano, that roar of distant waves, cut off from time to
time by breaks of tragic silence!

... Carmen is imagined to be witnessing the corrida invisible. Guessed by the various intonations
of the sounds of the square during the tragedy developed in the ring.

Sometimes it was a burst of angry shouting, accompanied whistling, others, thousands and thousands
of voices shouting unintelligible words.

Suddenly sounded like a scream of terror, long, loud, seemed up to the sky, a exclamation frightened
and panting, I did see thousands of heads stretched and pale with
emotion following the bull run fast, I was going to reach a man ...
until instantly cut the cry, restoring calm.

The danger had passed.

Extendíanse long periods of silence, a silence, the silence of the void, that sounded enlarged
the buzzing of flies outputs of the stables, as if the huge circus
was deserted, as if they had remained motionless and breathless fourteen
thousand people sitting in the stands and Carmen were the only living
thing that survived in her womb.

Suddenly he encouraged this silence with a loud crash and infinite,
as if all the bricks of the square is release from its interlocking,
giving each other.

It was a standing ovation that shook the circus. In the courtyard immediately to the chapel
sounded caning on skin of the wretched horses, cursing, hoofs and voices clash. "Who's playing?"
New choppers were called to the plaza.

These noises uniéronse others closer.

Steps in the rooms sounded immediate doors were opened with a bang: the voices could be heard
wheezing and several men march as if burdened by heavy weight.

- It's nothing ... a bump on the head. You do not have blood. Before the end of the run will be
biting.

And a hoarse voice, weakened by pain, as if it came from deep in the lungs, groaning, sighing,
with an accent reminiscent of Carmen their land:

- Virgen de la Solea! ... I think I've broken argo.

Look closely, Doctor ... Oh, my children!

Carmen shuddered with horror. He raised his eyes to the Virgin, deceived
by fear.

His nose seemed sharpened with emotion between the sunken cheeks and pale. He felt sick; feared
collapse on the pavement with a syncope of terror. Tried to pray again, isolated in prayer, not
to hear the sounds outside, transmitted through the walls with a sound desperate. But despite
these purposes, came to his ear a dark water splash and the voices of some men, which should
be physicians and nurses, encouraging the chopper.

This was complaining with a roughness of ranger rider, trying to hide at the same time, pride
virile, the pain of broken bones.

- Virgen de la Solea! My children! ... What will they eat the poor churumbeles if their partner does
not can sting? ...

Carmen rose. Oh, I could not anymore! Would fall if he was still slumped in that dark place moved by
the echoes of pain. I needed air, seeing the sun.

I thought felt in his bones the same punishment that the man was moaning unknown.

Went into the yard. Blood everywhere, blood on the floor near a vat, where the water mingled with
the red liquid.

Retirábanse the picks of the ring. They made the sign for the fate of flags, and coming riders
on their horses for blood, the skin torn and hanging their bellies the nasty Bandullos from the
bowels into the air.

Desmontábanse riders, talking with animation of the incidents of the
race.

Carmen was to stew alight with all the weight of his vigorous humanity, releasing a string of
curses the "wise monkeys" who helped him awkwardly on his descent. Seemed hampered by his hidden
iron legs and the pain of several bump. We had a hand in the back to scratch with painful stretches,
but he smiled, showing his yellow teeth of a horse.

- Have you seen ustés that has estao Juan Bueno? - Told everyone around him -. Today is Bueno
really.

When repairing the only woman in the courtyard and recognize, showed
no surprise.

- Nah, you here, Sena Carmen! Both Bueno! ...

And he
spoke quietly, as if he, in the drowsy you ever had wine and bestiality
itself, could not surprise you anything.

- Nah, you've seen Juan
?...-- continued -. It has been lie down on the floor, Elante the
bull, in hosicos themselves. What hase hase that bowed not anyone
... Peek a veil, which is now mu Guen.

They called from a door, which
was nursing. His partner wanted the chopper speak before he moved
to the hospital.

- Adio, Sena Carmen. I'll see what that probesito
Quie. One fell to fratura, according to design. This toa non-biting
in the season.

Carmen took shelter under the arcades, trying to close
their eyes to the disgusting spectacle the yard, but at the same time
he felt drawn to the dizzying red blood. 

The "wise monkeys' led
by the bridle the horses injured, who dragged their guts on the ground,
while dropping below the tail with diarrhea of ​​fright.

Seeing them,
a manager of the blocks began to move his hands and feet, agitated
by a fever activity.

- Force !...-- brave young men shouted, addressing
the stables -. Hard! Drive there!

A stable boy, moving cautiously
along the horse, coceante of pain, deprived him the chair, throwing
her legs after the bonds of the stiff straps, joining the four limbs
and bringing down the animal to the ground.

- There, brave! ... Hard!
Hard on him! - Still screaming in charge of the stables, while moving
the hands and feet.

And the young men, rolled up, inclinábanse on
the open belly of the beast, that scattered around pools of blood
and urine, struggling to introduce a handful in the tragic rift heavy
guts hanging out of it.

Another held the reins of the animal and
pressed down on the floor putting the sad head one foot on it. Twitched
his nose in a gesture of pain clashed long and yellow teeth with a
shiver of martyrdom, lost in the dust the neighing, suffocated by
pressure foot. Fought the bloody hands of the healers to return to
the open cavity the flabby belly, but the heavy breathing of the victim's
swell, making them out of their confinement and scattering again as
packed scraps. A huge bladder inflated in the wreckage, hindering
the settlement.

- The comic, courageous !...-- shouted the director
-. Hard on the comic!

And the bladder, with all his heart attached,
finally disappearing into the depths of the belly, while two young
men, with the agility of custom, sewing the skin.

When the horse
was "fixed" with barbaric quickly, he threw a bucket of water head,
freedom legs of interlocking straps and gave him a caning to be put
in place. Some, barely walked two steps, hung round, spilling gush
of blood from the wound sewn with twine. It was instant death to recover
the belly position. Discover the secrets manteníanse strong force
animal resources, and the servants, after the "settlement", they carried
the "barnizaje" flooding their legs and bellies violent ablutions
with water buckets. The white or brown color of the animals was bright,
his hair dripping with pink liquid mixture of water and blood.

Mending
the horses as if they were old shoes, exploiting his weakness to the
last time, prolonging their agony and death. Were on the floor pieces
of intestines, cut to facilitate the operation of the "settlement."
Other pieces of his heart were in the ring covered with sand, until
the bull died and the boys could collect these scraps in their baskets.
Many times, the tragic emptiness of lost organs remediábanlo barbarians
healers with handfuls of rags placed on the belly.

The important
thing was to keep these animals stand a few minutes more, until picks
get back out on the square: the bull is in charge of finishing his
work ... And jacos dying suffered without protest the grim transfiguration.
Those who were resuscitated limping with loud strokes of the cane,
they trembled from the legs to the ears. A horse meek, in despair
of his misfortune, tried to bite the "wise monkeys' approaching. Still
kept his teeth and hair flaps of skin cells. To feel the tear of horns
on its belly, the wretched animal had bitten the bull's neck of lamb
with a fury rabid. 

Sadly injured horses neighing, lifting the tail
with noisy exhaust gases; stench of blood and feces scattered around
the patio plant, the blood was between stones, blackening on drying.

Until
there came the sound of the invisible crowd. There were exclamations
of concern; a "ay! Ay! "Launched by thousands of mouths, I did guess
the leak harassed banderillero closely by the bull. Then silence.
The man turned to the beast, and burst the thunderous applause greeted
a couple of flags in place. Then the trumpets sounded announcing the
kill, and repeated applause.

Carmen wanted to leave. Virgen de la
Esperanza! What was he doing there? ... Ignored the order would to
continue the slaughter in their work. Perhaps that touch marked the
moment when her husband would stand in front of the beast. And she
there, a few steps away, and without him! ... I wanted to escape to
escape this torment. It may be added, that in travelling thus late through the forest,
Cedric and Athelstane relied on their descent and character, as well as their courage. The
outlaws, whom the severity of the forest laws had reduced to this roving and desperate mode
of life, were chiefly peasants and yeomen of Saxon descent, and were generally supposed to
respect the persons and property of their countrymen.

As the travellers journeyed on their way, they were alarmed by repeated cries for assistance;
and when they rode up to the place from whence they came, they were surprised to find a horse-litter
placed upon the ground, beside which sat a young woman, richly dressed in the Jewish fashion,
while an old man, whose yellow cap proclaimed him to belong to the same nation, walked up and
down with gestures expressive of the deepest despair, and wrung his hands, as if affected by
some strange disaster.

To the enquiries of Athelstane and Cedric, the old Jew could for some time only answer by invoking
the protection of all the patriarchs of the Old Testament successively against the sons of
Ishmael, who were coming to smite them, hip and thigh, with the edge of the sword. When he
began to come to himself out of this agony of terror, Isaac of York (for it was our old friend)
was at length able to explain, that he had hired a body-guard of six men at Ashby, together
with mules for carrying the litter of a sick friend. This party had undertaken to escort him
as far as Doncaster. They had come thus far in safety; but having received information from
a wood-cutter that there was a strong band of outlaws lying in wait in the woods before them,
Isaac's mercenaries had not only taken flight, but had carried off with them the horses which
bore the litter and left the Jew and his daughter without the means either of defence or of
retreat, to be plundered, and probably murdered, by the banditti, who they expected every moment
would bring down upon them. "Would it but please your valours," added Isaac, in a tone of deep
humiliation, "to permit the poor Jews to travel under your safeguard, I swear by the tables
of our law, that never has favour been conferred upon a child of Israel since the days of our
captivity, which shall be more gratefully acknowledged."

"Dog of a Jew!" said Athelstane, whose memory was of that petty kind which stores up trifles
of all kinds, but particularly trifling offences, "dost not remember how thou didst beard us
in the gallery at the tilt-yard? Fight or flee, or compound with the outlaws as thou dost list,
ask neither aid nor company from us; and if they rob only such as thee, who rob all the world,
I, for mine own share, shall hold them right honest folk."

Cedric did not assent to the severe proposal of his companion. "We shall do better," said he,
"to leave them two of our attendants and two horses to convey them back to the next village.
It will diminish our strength but little; and with your good sword, noble Athelstane, and the
aid of those who remain, it will be light work for us to face twenty of those runagates."

Rowena, somewhat alarmed by the mention of outlaws in force, and so near them, strongly seconded
the proposal of her guardian. But Rebecca suddenly quitting her dejected posture, and making
her way through the attendants to the palfrey of the Saxon lady, knelt down, and, after the
Oriental fashion in addressing superiors, kissed the hem of Rowena's garment. Then rising,
and throwing back her veil, she implored her in the great name of the God whom they both worshipped,
and by that revelation of the Law upon Mount Sinai, in which they both believed, that she would
have compassion upon them, and suffer them to go forward under their safeguard. "It is not
for myself that I pray this favour," said Rebecca; "nor is it even for that poor old man. I
know that to wrong and to spoil our nation is a light fault, if not a merit, with the Christians;
and what is it to us whether it be done in the city, in the desert, or in the field? But it
is in the name of one dear to many, and dear even to you, that I beseech you to let this sick
person be transported with care and tenderness under your protection. For, if evil chance him,
the last moment of your life would be embittered with regret for denying that which I ask of you."

The noble and solemn air with which Rebecca made this appeal, gave it double weight with the
fair Saxon.

"The man is old and feeble," she said to her guardian, "the maiden young and beautiful, their
friend sick and in peril of his life--Jews though they be, we cannot as Christians leave them
in this extremity. Let them unload two of the sumpter-mules, and put the baggage behind two
of the serfs. The mules may transport the litter, and we have led horses for the old man and
his daughter."

Cedric readily assented to what she proposed, and Athelstane only added the condition, "that
they should travel in the rear of the whole party, where Wamba," he said, "might attend them
with his shield of boar's brawn."

"I have left my shield in the tilt-yard," answered the Jester, "as has been the fate of many
a better knight than myself."

Athelstane coloured deeply, for such had been his own fate on the last day of the tournament;
while Rowena, who was pleased in the same proportion, as if to make amends for the brutal jest
of her unfeeling suitor, requested Rebecca to ride by her side.

"It were not fit I should do so," answered Rebecca, with proud humility, "where my society
might be held a disgrace to my protectress."

By this time the change of baggage was hastily achieved; for the single word "outlaws" rendered
every one sufficiently alert, and the approach of twilight made the sound yet more impressive.
Amid the bustle, Gurth was taken from horseback, in the course of which removal he prevailed
upon the Jester to slack the cord with which his arms were bound. It was so negligently refastened,
perhaps intentionally, on the part of Wamba, that Gurth found no difficulty in freeing his
arms altogether from bondage, and then, gliding into the thicket, he made his escape from the
party.

The bustle had been considerable, and it was some time before Gurth was missed; for, as he
was to be placed for the rest of the journey behind a servant, every one supposed that some
other of his companions had him under his custody, and when it began to be whispered among
them that Gurth had actually disappeared, they were under such immediate expectation of an
attack from the outlaws, that it was not held convenient to pay much attention to the circumstance.

The path upon which the party travelled was now so narrow, as not to admit, with any sort of
convenience, above two riders abreast, and began to descend into a dingle, traversed by a brook
whose banks were broken, swampy, and overgrown with dwarf willows. Cedric and Athelstane, who
were at the head of their retinue, saw the risk of being attacked at this pass; but neither
of them having had much practice in war, no better mode of preventing the danger occurred to
them than that they should hasten through the defile as fast as possible. Advancing, therefore,
without much order, they had just crossed the brook with a part of their followers, when they
were assailed in front, flank, and rear at once, with an impetuosity to which, in their confused
and ill-prepared condition, it was impossible to offer effectual resistance. The shout of "A
white dragon!--a white dragon!--Saint George for merry England!" war-cries adopted by the assailants,
as belonging to their assumed character of Saxon outlaws, was heard on every side, and on every
side enemies appeared with a rapidity of advance and attack which seemed to multiply their numbers.

Both the Saxon chiefs were made prisoners at the same moment, and each under circumstances
expressive of his character. Cedric, the instant that an enemy appeared, launched at him his
remaining javelin, which, taking better effect than that which he had hurled at Fangs, nailed
the man against an oak-tree that happened to be close behind him. Thus far successful, Cedric
spurred his horse against a second, drawing his sword at the same time, and striking with such
inconsiderate fury, that his weapon encountered a thick branch which hung over him, and he
was disarmed by the violence of his own blow. He was instantly made prisoner, and pulled from
his horse by two or three of the banditti who crowded around him. Athelstane shared his captivity,
his bridle having been seized, and he himself forcibly dismounted, long before he could draw
his weapon, or assume any posture of effectual defence.

The attendants, embarrassed with baggage, surprised and terrified at the fate of their masters,
fell an easy prey to the assailants; while the Lady Rowena, in the centre of the cavalcade,
and the Jew and his daughter in the rear, experienced the same misfortune.

Of all the train none escaped except Wamba, who showed upon the occasion much more courage
than those who pretended to greater sense. He possessed himself of a sword belonging to one
of the domestics, who was just drawing it with a tardy and irresolute hand, laid it about him
like a lion, drove back several who approached him, and made a brave though ineffectual attempt
to succour his master. Finding himself overpowered, the Jester at length threw himself from
his horse, plunged into the thicket, and, favoured by the general confusion, escaped from the
scene of action. Yet the valiant Jester, as soon as he found himself safe, hesitated more than
once whether he should not turn back and share the captivity of a master to whom he was sincerely
attached.

"I have heard men talk of the blessings of freedom," he said to himself, "but I wish any wise
man would teach me what use to make of it now that I have it."

As he pronounced these words aloud, a voice very near him called out in a low and cautious
tone, "Wamba!" and, at the same time, a dog, which he recognised to be Fangs, jumped up and
fawned upon him. "Gurth!" answered Wamba, with the same caution, and the swineherd immediately
stood before him.

"What is the matter?" said he eagerly; "what mean these cries, and that clashing of swords?"

"Only a trick of the times," said Wamba; "they are all prisoners."

"Who are prisoners?" exclaimed Gurth, impatiently.

"My lord, and my lady, and Athelstane, and Hundibert, and Oswald."

"In the name of God!" said Gurth, "how came they prisoners?--and to whom?"

"Our master was too ready to fight," said the Jester; "and Athelstane was not ready enough,
and no other person was ready at all. And they are prisoners to green cassocks, and black visors.
And they lie all tumbled about on the green, like the crab-apples that you shake down to your
swine. And I would laugh at it," said the honest Jester, "if I could for weeping." And he shed
tears of unfeigned sorrow.

Gurth's countenance kindled--"Wamba," he said, "thou hast a weapon, and thy heart was ever
stronger than thy brain,--we are only two--but a sudden attack from men of resolution will
do much--follow me!"

"Whither?--and for what purpose?" said the Jester.

"To rescue Cedric."

"But you have renounced his service but now," said Wamba.

"That," said Gurth, "was but while he was fortunate--follow me!"

As the Jester was about to obey, a third person suddenly made his appearance, and commanded
them both to halt. From his dress and arms, Wamba would have conjectured him to be one of those
outlaws who had just assailed his master; but, besides that he wore no mask, the glittering
baldric across his shoulder, with the rich bugle-horn which it supported, as well as the calm
and commanding expression of his voice and manner, made him, notwithstanding the twilight,
recognise Locksley the yeoman, who had been victorious, under such disadvantageous circumstances,
in the contest for the prize of archery.

"What is the meaning of all this," said he, "or who is it that rifle, and ransom, and make
prisoners, in these forests?"

"You may look at their cassocks close by," said Wamba, "and see whether they be thy children's
coats or no--for they are as like thine own, as one green pea-cod is to another."

"I will learn that presently," answered Locksley; "and I charge ye, on peril of your lives,
not to stir from the place where ye stand, until I have returned. Obey me, and it shall be
the better for you and your masters.--Yet stay, I must render myself as like these men as possible."

So saying he unbuckled his baldric with the bugle, took a feather from his cap, and gave them
to Wamba; then drew a vizard from his pouch, and, repeating his charges to them to stand fast,
went to execute his purposes of reconnoitring.

"Shall we stand fast, Gurth?" said Wamba; "or shall we e'en give him leg-bail? In my foolish
mind, he had all the equipage of a thief too much in readiness, to be himself a true man."

"Let him be the devil," said Gurth, "an he will. We can be no worse of waiting his return.
If he belong to that party, he must already have given them the alarm, and it will avail nothing
either to fight or fly. Besides, I have late experience, that errant thieves are not the worst
men in the world to have to deal with."

The yeoman returned in the course of a few minutes.

"Friend Gurth," he said, "I have mingled among yon men, and have learnt to whom they belong,
and whither they are bound. There is, I think, no chance that they will proceed to any actual
violence against their prisoners. For three men to attempt them at this moment, were little
else than madness; for they are good men of war, and have, as such, placed sentinels to give
the alarm when any one approaches. But I trust soon to gather such a force, as may act in defiance
of all their precautions; you are both servants, and, as I think, faithful servants, of Cedric
the Saxon, the friend of the rights of Englishmen. He shall not want English hands to help
him in this extremity. Come then with me, until I gather more aid."

So saying, he walked through the wood at a great pace, followed by the jester and the swineherd.
It was not consistent with Wamba's humour to travel long in silence.

"I think," said he, looking at the baldric and bugle which he still carried, "that I saw the
arrow shot which won this gay prize, and that not so long since as Christmas."

"And I," said Gurth, "could take it on my halidome, that I have heard the voice of the good
yeoman who won it, by night as well as by day, and that the moon is not three days older since
I did so."

"Mine honest friends," replied the yeoman, "who, or what I am, is little to the present purpose;
should I free your master, you will have reason to think me the best friend you have ever had
in your lives. And whether I am known by one name or another--or whether I can draw a bow as
well or better than a cow-keeper, or whether it is my pleasure to walk in sunshine or by moonlight,
are matters, which, as they do not concern you, so neither need ye busy yourselves respecting
them."

"Our heads are in the lion's mouth," said Wamba, in a whisper to Gurth, "get them out how we can."

"Hush--be silent," said Gurth. "Offend him not by thy folly, and I trust sincerely that all
will go well."

CHAPTER XX

     When autumn nights were long and drear,
     And forest walks were dark and dim,
     How sweetly on the pilgrim's ear
     Was wont to steal the hermit's hymn

     Devotion borrows Music's tone,
     And Music took Devotion's wing;
     And, like the bird that hails the sun,
     They soar to heaven, and soaring sing.
     The Hermit of St Clement's Well

It was after three hours' good walking that the servants of Cedric, with their mysterious guide,
arrived at a small opening in the forest, in the centre of which grew an oak-tree of enormous
magnitude, throwing its twisted branches in every direction. Beneath this tree four or five
yeomen lay stretched on the ground, while another, as sentinel, walked to and fro in the moonlight
shade.

Upon hearing the sound of feet approaching, the watch instantly gave the alarm, and the sleepers
as suddenly started up and bent their bows. Six arrows placed on the string were pointed towards
the quarter from which the travellers approached, when their guide, being recognised, was welcomed
with every token of respect and attachment, and all signs and fears of a rough reception at
once subsided.

"Where is the Miller?" was his first question.

"On the road towards Rotherham."

"With how many?" demanded the leader, for such he seemed to be.

"With six men, and good hope of booty, if it please St Nicholas."

"Devoutly spoken," said Locksley; "and where is Allan-a-Dale?"

"Walked up towards the Watling-street, to watch for the Prior of Jorvaulx."

"That is well thought on also," replied the Captain;--"and where is the Friar?"

"In his cell."

"Thither will I go," said Locksley. "Disperse and seek your companions. Collect what force
you can, for there's game afoot that must be hunted hard, and will turn to bay. Meet me here
by daybreak.--And stay," he added, "I have forgotten what is most necessary of the whole--Two
of you take the road quickly towards Torquilstone, the Castle of Front-de-Boeuf. A set of gallants,
who have been masquerading in such guise as our own, are carrying a band of prisoners thither--Watch
them closely, for even if they reach the castle before we collect our force, our honour is
concerned to punish them, and we will find means to do so. Keep a close watch on them therefore;
and dispatch one of your comrades, the lightest of foot, to bring the news of the yeomen thereabout."

They promised implicit obedience, and departed with alacrity on their different errands. In
the meanwhile, their leader and his two companions, who now looked upon him with great respect,
as well as some fear, pursued their way to the Chapel of Copmanhurst.

When they had reached the little moonlight glade, having in front the reverend, though ruinous
chapel, and the rude hermitage, so well suited to ascetic devotion, Wamba whispered to Gurth,
"If this be the habitation of a thief, it makes good the old proverb, The nearer the church
the farther from God.--And by my coxcomb," he added, "I think it be even so--Hearken but to
the black sanctus which they are singing in the hermitage!"

In fact the anchorite and his guest were performing, at the full extent of their very powerful
lungs, an old drinking song, of which this was the burden:--

     "Come, trowl the brown bowl to me,
     Bully boy, bully boy,
     Come, trowl the brown bowl to me:
     Ho! jolly Jenkin, I spy a knave in drinking,
     Come, trowl the brown bowl to me."

"Now, that is not ill sung," said Wamba, who had thrown in a few of his own flourishes to help
out the chorus. "But who, in the saint's name, ever expected to have heard such a jolly chant
come from out a hermit's cell at midnight!"

"Marry, that should I," said Gurth, "for the jolly Clerk of Copmanhurst is a known man, and
kills half the deer that are stolen in this walk. Men say that the keeper has complained to
his official, and that he will be stripped of his cowl and cope altogether, if he keeps not
better order."

While they were thus speaking, Locksley's loud and repeated knocks had at length disturbed
the anchorite and his guest. "By my beads," said the hermit, stopping short in a grand flourish,
"here come more benighted guests. I would not for my cowl that they found us in this goodly
exercise. All men have their enemies, good Sir Sluggard; and there be those malignant enough
to construe the hospitable refreshment which I have been offering to you, a weary traveller,
for the matter of three short hours, into sheer drunkenness and debauchery, vices alike alien
to my profession and my disposition."

"Base calumniators!" replied the knight; "I would I had the chastising of them. Nevertheless,
Holy Clerk, it is true that all have their enemies; and there be those in this very land whom
I would rather speak to through the bars of my helmet than barefaced."

"Get thine iron pot on thy head then, friend Sluggard, as quickly as thy nature will permit,"
said the hermit, "while I remove these pewter flagons, whose late contents run strangely in
mine own pate; and to drown the clatter--for, in faith, I feel somewhat unsteady--strike into
the tune which thou hearest me sing; it is no matter for the words--I scarce know them myself."

So saying, he struck up a thundering "De profundis clamavi", under cover of which he removed
the apparatus of their banquet: while the knight, laughing heartily, and arming himself all
the while, assisted his host with his voice from time to time as his mirth permitted.

"What devil's matins are you after at this hour?" said a voice from without.

"Heaven forgive you, Sir Traveller!" said the hermit, whose own noise, and perhaps his nocturnal
potations, prevented from recognising accents which were tolerably familiar to him--"Wend on
your way, in the name of God and Saint Dunstan, and disturb not the devotions of me and my
holy brother."

"Mad priest," answered the voice from without, "open to Locksley!"

"All's safe--all's right," said the hermit to his companion.

"But who is he?" said the Black Knight; "it imports me much to know."

"Who is he?" answered the hermit; "I tell thee he is a friend."

"But what friend?" answered the knight; "for he may be friend to thee and none of mine?"

"What friend?" replied the hermit; "that, now, is one of the questions that is more easily
asked than answered. What friend?--why, he is, now that I bethink me a little, the very same
honest keeper I told thee of a while since."

"Ay, as honest a keeper as thou art a pious hermit," replied the knight, "I doubt it not. But
undo the door to him before he beat it from its hinges."

The dogs, in the meantime, which had made a dreadful baying at the commencement of the disturbance,
seemed now to recognise the voice of him who stood without; for, totally changing their manner,
they scratched and whined at the door, as if interceding for his admission. The hermit speedily
unbolted his portal, and admitted Locksley, with his two companions.

"Why, hermit," was the yeoman's first question as soon as he beheld the knight, "what boon
companion hast thou here?"

"A brother of our order," replied the friar, shaking his head; "we have been at our orisons
all night."

"He is a monk of the church militant, I think," answered Locksley; "and there be more of them
abroad. I tell thee, friar, thou must lay down the rosary and take up the quarter-staff; we
shall need every one of our merry men, whether clerk or layman.--But," he added, taking him
a step aside, "art thou mad? to give admittance to a knight thou dost not know? Hast thou forgot
our articles?"

"Not know him!" replied the friar, boldly, "I know him as well as the beggar knows his dish."

"And what is his name, then?" demanded Locksley.

"His name," said the hermit--"his name is Sir Anthony of Scrabelstone--as if I would drink
with a man, and did not know his name!"

"Thou hast been drinking more than enough, friar," said the woodsman, "and, I fear, prating
more than enough too."

"Good yeoman," said the knight, coming forward, "be not wroth with my merry host. He did but
afford me the hospitality which I would have compelled from him if he had refused it."

"Thou compel!" said the friar; "wait but till have changed this grey gown for a green cassock,
and if I make not a quarter-staff ring twelve upon thy pate, I am neither true clerk nor good
woodsman."

While he spoke thus, he stript off his gown, and appeared in a close black buckram doublet
and drawers, over which he speedily did on a cassock of green, and hose of the same colour.
"I pray thee truss my points," said he to Wamba, "and thou shalt have a cup of sack for thy
labour."

"Gramercy for thy sack," said Wamba; "but think'st thou it is lawful for me to aid you to transmew
thyself from a holy hermit into a sinful forester?"

"Never fear," said the hermit; "I will but confess the sins of my green cloak to my greyfriar's
frock, and all shall be well again."

"Amen!" answered the Jester; "a broadcloth penitent should have a sackcloth confessor, and
your frock may absolve my motley doublet into the bargain."

So saying, he accommodated the friar with his assistance in tying the endless number of points,
as the laces which attached the hose to the doublet were then termed.

While they were thus employed, Locksley led the knight a little apart, and addressed him thus:--"Deny
it not, Sir Knight--you are he who decided the victory to the advantage of the English against
the strangers on the second day of the tournament at Ashby."

"And what follows if you guess truly, good yeoman?" replied the knight.

"I should in that case hold you," replied the yeoman, "a friend to the weaker party."

"Such is the duty of a true knight at least," replied the Black Champion; "and I would not
willingly that there were reason to think otherwise of me."

"But for my purpose," said the yeoman, "thou shouldst be as well a good Englishman as a good
knight; for that, which I have to speak of, concerns, indeed, the duty of every honest man,
but is more especially that of a true-born native of England."

"You can speak to no one," replied the knight, "to whom England, and the life of every Englishman,
can be dearer than to me."

"I would willingly believe so," said the woodsman, "for never had this country such need to
be supported by those who love her. Hear me, and I will tell thee of an enterprise, in which,
if thou be'st really that which thou seemest, thou mayst take an honourable part. A band of
villains, in the disguise of better men than themselves, have made themselves master of the
person of a noble Englishman, called Cedric the Saxon, together with his ward, and his friend
Athelstane of Coningsburgh, and have transported them to a castle in this forest, called Torquilstone.
I ask of thee, as a good knight and a good Englishman, wilt thou aid in their rescue?"

"I am bound by my vow to do so," replied the knight; "but I would willingly know who you are,
who request my assistance in their behalf?"

"I am," said the forester, "a nameless man; but I am the friend of my country, and of my country's
friends--With this account of me you must for the present remain satisfied, the more especially
since you yourself desire to continue unknown. Believe, however, that my word, when pledged,
is as inviolate as if I wore golden spurs."

"I willingly believe it," said the knight; "I have been accustomed to study men's countenances,
and I can read in thine honesty and resolution. I will, therefore, ask thee no further questions,
but aid thee in setting at freedom these oppressed captives; which done, I trust we shall part
better acquainted, and well satisfied with each other."

"So," said Wamba to Gurth,--for the friar being now fully equipped, the Jester, having approached
to the other side of the hut, had heard the conclusion of the conversation,--"So we have got
a new ally?--l trust the valour of the knight will be truer metal than the religion of the
hermit, or the honesty of the yeoman; for this Locksley looks like a born deer-stealer, and
the priest like a lusty hypocrite."

"Hold thy peace, Wamba," said Gurth; "it may all be as thou dost guess; but were the horned
devil to rise and proffer me his assistance to set at liberty Cedric and the Lady Rowena, I
fear I should hardly have religion enough to refuse the foul fiend's offer, and bid him get
behind me."

The friar was now completely accoutred as a yeoman, with sword and buckler, bow, and quiver,
and a strong partisan over his shoulder. He left his cell at the head of the party, and, having
carefully locked the door, deposited the key under the threshold.

"Art thou in condition to do good service, friar," said Locksley, "or does the brown bowl still
run in thy head?"

"Not more than a drought of St Dunstan's fountain will allay," answered the priest; "something
there is of a whizzing in my brain, and of instability in my legs, but you shall presently
see both pass away."

So saying, he stepped to the stone basin, in which the waters of the fountain as they fell
formed bubbles which danced in the white moonlight, and took so long a drought as if he had
meant to exhaust the spring.

"When didst thou drink as deep a drought of water before, Holy Clerk of Copmanhurst?" said
the Black Knight.

"Never since my wine-butt leaked, and let out its liquor by an illegal vent," replied the friar,
"and so left me nothing to drink but my patron's bounty here."

Then plunging his hands and head into the fountain, he washed from them all marks of the midnight
revel.

Thus refreshed and sobered, the jolly priest twirled his heavy partisan round his head with
three fingers, as if he had been balancing a reed, exclaiming at the same time, "Where be those
false ravishers, who carry off wenches against their will? May the foul fiend fly off with
me, if I am not man enough for a dozen of them."

"Swearest thou, Holy Clerk?" said the Black Knight.

"Clerk me no Clerks," replied the transformed priest; "by Saint George and the Dragon, I am
no longer a shaveling than while my frock is on my back--When I am cased in my green cassock,
I will drink, swear, and woo a lass, with any blithe forester in the West Riding."

"Come on, Jack Priest," said Locksley, "and be silent; thou art as noisy as a whole convent
on a holy eve, when the Father Abbot has gone to bed.--Come on you, too, my masters, tarry
not to talk of it--I say, come on, we must collect all our forces, and few enough we shall
have, if we are to storm the Castle of Reginald Front-de-Boeuf."

"What! is it Front-de-Boeuf," said the Black Knight, "who has stopt on the king's highway the
king's liege subjects?--Is he turned thief and oppressor?"

"Oppressor he ever was," said Locksley.

"And for thief," said the priest, "I doubt if ever he were even half so honest a man as many
a thief of my acquaintance."

"Move on, priest, and be silent," said the yeoman; "it were better you led the way to the place
of rendezvous, than say what should be left unsaid, both in decency and prudence."

CHAPTER XXI

     Alas, how many hours and years have past,
     Since human forms have round this table sate,
     Or lamp, or taper, on its surface gleam'd!
     Methinks, I hear the sound of time long pass'd
     Still murmuring o'er us, in the lofty void
     Of these dark arches, like the ling'ring voices
     Of those who long within their graves have slept.
     Orra, a Tragedy

While these measures were taking in behalf of Cedric and his companions, the armed men by whom
the latter had been seized, hurried their captives along towards the place of security, where
they intended to imprison them. But darkness came on fast, and the paths of the wood seemed
but imperfectly known to the marauders. They were compelled to make several long halts, and
once or twice to return on their road to resume the direction which they wished to pursue.
The summer morn had dawned upon them ere they could travel in full assurance that they held
the right path. But confidence returned with light, and the cavalcade now moved rapidly forward.
Meanwhile, the following dialogue took place between the two leaders of the banditti.

"It is time thou shouldst leave us, Sir Maurice," said the Templar to De Bracy, "in order to
prepare the second part of thy mystery. Thou art next, thou knowest, to act the Knight Deliverer."

"I have thought better of it," said De Bracy; "I will not leave thee till the prize is fairly
deposited in Front-de-Boeuf's castle. There will I appear before the Lady Rowena in mine own
shape, and trust that she will set down to the vehemence of my passion the violence of which
I have been guilty."

"And what has made thee change thy plan, De Bracy?" replied the Knight Templar.

"That concerns thee nothing," answered his companion.

"I would hope, however, Sir Knight," said the Templar, "that this alteration of measures arises
from no suspicion of my honourable meaning, such as Fitzurse endeavoured to instil into thee?"

"My thoughts are my own," answered De Bracy; "the fiend laughs, they say, when one thief robs
another; and we know, that were he to spit fire and brimstone instead, it would never prevent
a Templar from following his bent."

"Or the leader of a Free Company," answered the Templar, "from dreading at the hands of a comrade
and friend, the injustice he does to all mankind."

"This is unprofitable and perilous recrimination," answered De Bracy; "suffice it to say, I
know the morals of the Temple-Order, and I will not give thee the power of cheating me out
of the fair prey for which I have run such risks."

"Psha," replied the Templar, "what hast thou to fear?--Thou knowest the vows of our order."

"Right well," said De Bracy, "and also how they are kept. Come, Sir Templar, the laws of gallantry
have a liberal interpretation in Palestine, and this is a case in which I will trust nothing
to your conscience."

"Hear the truth, then," said the Templar; "I care not for your blue-eyed beauty. There is in
that train one who will make me a better mate."

"What! wouldst thou stoop to the waiting damsel?" said De Bracy.

"No, Sir Knight," said the Templar, haughtily. "To the waiting-woman will I not stoop. I have
a prize among the captives as lovely as thine own."

"By the mass, thou meanest the fair Jewess!" said De Bracy.

"And if I do," said Bois-Guilbert, "who shall gainsay me?"

"No one that I know," said De Bracy, "unless it be your vow of celibacy, or a cheek of conscience
for an intrigue with a Jewess."

"For my vow," said the Templar, "our Grand Master hath granted me a dispensation. And for my
conscience, a man that has slain three hundred Saracens, need not reckon up every little failing,
like a village girl at her first confession upon Good Friday eve."

"Thou knowest best thine own privileges," said De Bracy. "Yet, I would have sworn thy thought
had been more on the old usurer's money bags, than on the black eyes of the daughter."

"I can admire both," answered the Templar; "besides, the old Jew is but half-prize. I must
share his spoils with Front-de-Boeuf, who will not lend us the use of his castle for nothing.
I must have something that I can term exclusively my own by this foray of ours, and I have
fixed on the lovely Jewess as my peculiar prize. But, now thou knowest my drift, thou wilt
resume thine own original plan, wilt thou not?--Thou hast nothing, thou seest, to fear from
my interference."

"No," replied De Bracy, "I will remain beside my prize. What thou sayst is passing true, but
I like not the privileges acquired by the dispensation of the Grand Master, and the merit acquired
by the slaughter of three hundred Saracens. You have too good a right to a free pardon, to
render you very scrupulous about peccadilloes."

While this dialogue was proceeding, Cedric was endeavouring to wring out of those who guarded
him an avowal of their character and purpose. "You should be Englishmen," said he; "and yet,
sacred Heaven! you prey upon your countrymen as if you were very Normans. You should be my
neighbours, and, if so, my friends; for which of my English neighbours have reason to be otherwise?
I tell ye, yeomen, that even those among ye who have been branded with outlawry have had from
me protection; for I have pitied their miseries, and curst the oppression of their tyrannic
nobles. What, then, would you have of me? or in what can this violence serve ye?--Ye are worse
than brute beasts in your actions, and will you imitate them in their very dumbness?"

It was in vain that Cedric expostulated with his guards, who had too many good reasons for
their silence to be induced to break it either by his wrath or his expostulations. They continued
to hurry him along, travelling at a very rapid rate, until, at the end of an avenue of huge
trees, arose Torquilstone, now the hoary and ancient castle of Reginald Front-de-Boeuf. It
was a fortress of no great size, consisting of a donjon, or large and high square tower, surrounded
by buildings of inferior height, which were encircled by an inner court-yard. Around the exterior
wall was a deep moat, supplied with water from a neighbouring rivulet. Front-de-Boeuf, whose
character placed him often at feud with his enemies, had made considerable additions to the
strength of his castle, by building towers upon the outward wall, so as to flank it at every
angle. The access, as usual in castles of the period, lay through an arched barbican, or outwork,
which was terminated and defended by a small turret at each corner.

Cedric no sooner saw the turrets of Front-de-Boeuf's castle raise their grey and moss-grown
battlements, glimmering in the morning sun above the wood by which they were surrounded, than
he instantly augured more truly concerning the cause of his misfortune.

"I did injustice," he said, "to the thieves and outlaws of these woods, when I supposed such
banditti to belong to their bands; I might as justly have confounded the foxes of these brakes
with the ravening wolves of France. Tell me, dogs--is it my life or my wealth that your master
aims at? Is it too much that two Saxons, myself and the noble Athelstane, should hold land
in the country which was once the patrimony of our race?--Put us then to death, and complete
your tyranny by taking our lives, as you began with our liberties. If the Saxon Cedric cannot
rescue England, he is willing to die for her. Tell your tyrannical master, I do only beseech
him to dismiss the Lady Rowena in honour and safety. She is a woman, and he need not dread
her; and with us will die all who dare fight in her cause."

The attendants remained as mute to this address as to the former, and they now stood before
the gate of the castle. De Bracy winded his horn three times, and the archers and cross-bow
men, who had manned the wall upon seeing their approach, hastened to lower the drawbridge,
and admit them. The prisoners were compelled by their guards to alight, and were conducted
to an apartment where a hasty repast was offered them, of which none but Athelstane felt any
inclination to partake. Neither had the descendant of the Confessor much time to do justice
to the good cheer placed before them, for their guards gave him and Cedric to understand that
they were to be imprisoned in a chamber apart from Rowena. Resistance was vain; and they were
compelled to follow to a large room, which, rising on clumsy Saxon pillars, resembled those
refectories and chapter-houses which may be still seen in the most ancient parts of our most
ancient monasteries.

The Lady Rowena was next separated from her train, and conducted, with courtesy, indeed, but
still without consulting her inclination, to a distant apartment. The same alarming distinction
was conferred on Rebecca, in spite of her father's entreaties, who offered even money, in this
extremity of distress, that she might be permitted to abide with him. "Base unbeliever," answered
one of his guards, "when thou hast seen thy lair, thou wilt not wish thy daughter to partake
it." And, without farther discussion, the old Jew was forcibly dragged off in a different direction
from the other prisoners. The domestics, after being carefully searched and disarmed, were
confined in another part of the castle; and Rowena was refused even the comfort she might have
derived from the attendance of her handmaiden Elgitha.

The apartment in which the Saxon chiefs were confined, for to them we turn our first attention,
although at present used as a sort of guard-room, had formerly been the great hall of the castle.
It was now abandoned to meaner purposes, because the present lord, among other additions to
the convenience, security, and beauty of his baronial residence, had erected a new and noble
hall, whose vaulted roof was supported by lighter and more elegant pillars, and fitted up with
that higher degree of ornament, which the Normans had already introduced into architecture.

Cedric paced the apartment, filled with indignant reflections on the past and on the present,
while the apathy of his companion served, instead of patience and philosophy, to defend him
against every thing save the inconvenience of the present moment; and so little did he feel
even this last, that he was only from time to time roused to a reply by Cedric's animated and
impassioned appeal to him.

"Yes," said Cedric, half speaking to himself, and half addressing himself to Athelstane, "it
was in this very hall that my father feasted with Torquil Wolfganger, when he entertained the
valiant and unfortunate Harold, then advancing against the Norwegians, who had united themselves
to the rebel Tosti. It was in this hall that Harold returned the magnanimous answer to the
ambassador of his rebel brother. Oft have I heard my father kindle as he told the tale. The
envoy of Tosti was admitted, when this ample room could scarce contain the crowd of noble Saxon
leaders, who were quaffing the blood-red wine around their monarch."

"I hope," said Athelstane, somewhat moved by this part of his friend's discourse, "they will
not forget to send us some wine and refactions at noon--we had scarce a breathing-space allowed
to break our fast, and I never have the benefit of my food when I eat immediately after dismounting
from horseback, though the leeches recommend that practice."

Cedric went on with his story without noticing this interjectional observation of his friend.

"The envoy of Tosti," he said, "moved up the hall, undismayed by the frowning countenances
of all around him, until he made his obeisance before the throne of King Harold.

"'What terms,' he said, 'Lord King, hath thy brother Tosti to hope, if he should lay down his
arms, and crave peace at thy hands?'

"'A brother's love,' cried the generous Harold, 'and the fair earldom of Northumberland.'

"'But should Tosti accept these terms,' continued the envoy, 'what lands shall be assigned
to his faithful ally, Hardrada, King of Norway?'

"'Seven feet of English ground,' answered Harold, fiercely, 'or, as Hardrada is said to be
a giant, perhaps we may allow him twelve inches more.'

"The hall rung with acclamations, and cup and horn was filled to the Norwegian, who should
be speedily in possession of his English territory."

"I could have pledged him with all my soul," said Athelstane, "for my tongue cleaves to my palate."

"The baffled envoy," continued Cedric, pursuing with animation his tale, though it interested
not the listener, "retreated, to carry to Tosti and his ally the ominous answer of his injured
brother. It was then that the distant towers of York, and the bloody streams of the Derwent,
[26] beheld that direful conflict, in which, after displaying the most undaunted valour, the
King of Norway, and Tosti, both fell, with ten thousand of their bravest followers. Who would
have thought that upon the proud day when this battle was won, the very gale which waved the
Saxon banners in triumph, was filling the Norman sails, and impelling them to the fatal shores
of Sussex?--Who would have thought that Harold, within a few brief days, would himself possess
no more of his kingdom, than the share which he allotted in his wrath to the Norwegian invader?--Who
would have thought that you, noble Athelstane--that you, descended of Harold's blood, and that
I, whose father was not the worst defender of the Saxon crown, should be prisoners to a vile
Norman, in the very hall in which our ancestors held such high festival?"

"It is sad enough," replied Athelstane; "but I trust they will hold us to a moderate ransom--At
any rate it cannot be their purpose to starve us outright; and yet, although it is high noon,
I see no preparations for serving dinner. Look up at the window, noble Cedric, and judge by
the sunbeams if it is not on the verge of noon."

"It may be so," answered Cedric; "but I cannot look on that stained lattice without its awakening
other reflections than those which concern the passing moment, or its privations. When that
window was wrought, my noble friend, our hardy fathers knew not the art of making glass, or
of staining it--The pride of Wolfganger's father brought an artist from Normandy to adorn his
hall with this new species of emblazonment, that breaks the golden light of God's blessed day
into so many fantastic hues. The foreigner came here poor, beggarly, cringing, and subservient,
ready to doff his cap to the meanest native of the household. He returned pampered and proud,
to tell his rapacious countrymen of the wealth and the simplicity of the Saxon nobles--a folly,
oh, Athelstane, foreboded of old, as well as foreseen, by those descendants of Hengist and
his hardy tribes, who retained the simplicity of their manners. We made these strangers our
bosom friends, our confidential servants; we borrowed their artists and their arts, and despised
the honest simplicity and hardihood with which our brave ancestors supported themselves, and
we became enervated by Norman arts long ere we fell under Norman arms. Far better was our homely
diet, eaten in peace and liberty, than the luxurious dainties, the love of which hath delivered
us as bondsmen to the foreign conqueror!"

"I should," replied Athelstane, "hold very humble diet a luxury at present; and it astonishes
me, noble Cedric, that you can bear so truly in mind the memory of past deeds, when it appeareth
you forget the very hour of dinner."

"It is time lost," muttered Cedric apart and impatiently, "to speak to him of aught else but
that which concerns his appetite! The soul of Hardicanute hath taken possession of him, and
he hath no pleasure save to fill, to swill, and to call for more.--Alas!" said he, looking
at Athelstane with compassion, "that so dull a spirit should be lodged in so goodly a form!
Alas! that such an enterprise as the regeneration of England should turn on a hinge so imperfect!
Wedded to Rowena, indeed, her nobler and more generous soul may yet awake the better nature
which is torpid within him. Yet how should this be, while Rowena, Athelstane, and I myself,
remain the prisoners of this brutal marauder and have been made so perhaps from a sense of
the dangers which our liberty might bring to the usurped power of his nation?"

While the Saxon was plunged in these painful reflections, the door of their prison opened,
and gave entrance to a sewer, holding his white rod of office. This important person advanced
into the chamber with a grave pace, followed by four attendants, bearing in a table covered
with dishes, the sight and smell of which seemed to be an instant compensation to Athelstane
for all the inconvenience he had undergone. The persons who attended on the feast were masked
and cloaked.

"What mummery is this?" said Cedric; "think you that we are ignorant whose prisoners we are,
when we are in the castle of your master? Tell him," he continued, willing to use this opportunity
to open a negotiation for his freedom,--"Tell your master, Reginald Front-de-Boeuf, that we
know no reason he can have for withholding our liberty, excepting his unlawful desire to enrich
himself at our expense. Tell him that we yield to his rapacity, as in similar circumstances
we should do to that of a literal robber. Let him name the ransom at which he rates our liberty,
and it shall be paid, providing the exaction is suited to our means." The sewer made no answer,
but bowed his head.

"And tell Sir Reginald Front-de-Boeuf," said Athelstane, "that I send him my mortal defiance,
and challenge him to combat with me, on foot or horseback, at any secure place, within eight
days after our liberation; which, if he be a true knight, he will not, under these circumstances,
venture to refuse or to delay."

"I shall deliver to the knight your defiance," answered the sewer; "meanwhile I leave you to
your food."

The challenge of Athelstane was delivered with no good grace; for a large mouthful, which required
the exercise of both jaws at once, added to a natural hesitation, considerably damped the effect
of the bold defiance it contained. The first female in the world! - good
woman running unwrinkle frowning and laughing, as he undressed and ran as if a sick child.

This was his only vice. Poor thing! ... Women and gambling, or signal. His egoism, which was
well dressed, as the family walked in rags, and the unequal allocation work products, compensábalos
with generic. Mrs Angus remember with pride the great feast days, when John was put on the
shawl of Manila, wedding blanket, and taking the children marched ahead to his side, with white Cordovan
hat and silver-headed cane, strolling by the Delicias, with the same air of a merchant family
Sierpes Street. The days of the flights bulls regaled course before going to the plaza, offering
her a beer of chamomile Bell or a coffee in the Plaza Nueva. This happy time was no longer anything
but a faint and pleasant remembrance in memory of the poor woman.

Mr. Juan ill with consumption, and for two years the wife had to attend
to their care, further exaggerating their industries to compensate
for the lack of the peseta which betrayed him before the husband.

He eventually died in the hospital, resigned to his fate, convinced that the existence no good
without chamomile and no fights, and his last look of love and gratitude was for his wife, as
if you scream with his eyes: "Olé! World's first female !...»

When left alone Mrs. Angustias not worsened her situation, but rather,
we considered with more disengage movements, free of the man who in
the past two years weighed more about it than the rest of the family.

Energetic woman and prompt decisions, marked once a path to their children. Encarnacion, who
was already seventeen years, went to Tobacco Factory, where his mother was able to enter through
their relationships with certain friends Youth arrivals teachers. Juanillo, that boy had spent
the day in the portal Fair district of watching his father work, going to be a shoemaker by
the will of Mrs. Troubles. Him out of school, where she learned the wrong read, and twelve years
came apprenticed to one of the best shoemakers in Seville.

Here began the martyrdom of the poor woman.

Oh, that boy! Son of parents so honored!

... Almost every day, instead of entering shop teacher, was going to the slaughter with some crooks
who have their meeting point on a bench in the Alameda de Hercules, and to the delight of shepherds
and butchers, dared to take a cloak to steers being flipped and kicked most of the time. Mrs
Angus, that needle in hand watched many nights the child was decentito the workshop, with clean
clothes, I was at the door of your home, afraid to enter and worthless at the same time to
flee the bondage of hunger, with ripped jeans, dirty jacket and bumps and scratches on his face.

For
the traitor ox bruises uníanse slaps and mother's broom, but the Slaughterhouse hero went through
everything so they do not need the pittance.

"Pega, but give me that eat. "And with the appetite aroused by the violent exercise, swallowed
hard bread, beans damaged, rotten cod, all food waste that the industrious woman sought in stores
to support the family with little money.

Busy all day scrubbing floors in the homes of others, only now and
then could deal his son, going to the shop teacher to learn about
the progress of the apprentice.

When snorted back of the shoe store of courage, proposing the most wonderful punishments corrected
the rascal.

Most of the days did not show up at the store.

Spent the morning in the slaughterhouse, and in the evening was the group at the entrance
to the street with other homeless Sierpes, admire about the bullfighters without contracts that
came together in La Campana, dressed again with brand new hats, but no more than a quarter in his
pocket and talking everyone from their own exploits.

Juanillo regarded them as beings of astonishing superiority, envying their good poise and freshness
that compliments to women. The idea that all they had at home a silk dress embroidered with
gold, and placed in him before the crowd marched to the sound of music producíale a shiver of respect.

The
son of Mrs. Angus was known for his ragged Zapaterin between friends
and showed himself satisfied to have a nickname, like almost all great
men that go to ring.

For a start. He wore a red scarf around his neck that was stolen from her sister, and below
the cap salíale hair piled on the ears in thick clumps, which smoothed with saliva. Queríalas
denim blouses to the waist, with numerous folds. Pants, old remains of his father's clothes off by
Ms. Anguish, exigíalos high waist with wide legs and hips well reflected, crying humiliation
when the mother did not want to adhere to these requirements.

A cape! Having a layer of hard work, not having to beg other loan happier the coveted cloth
for a few minutes! ... In a small room of the house lay forgotten
an old mattress with flabby gut.

Tell them the wool sold in days Mrs. Anguish of trouble. The Zapaterin spent a week locked in
the room, taking advantage of the absence of his mother, who worked that day as a maid in the house
of a canon. With the ingenuity of the shipwrecked sailor, delivered its initiatives, you have to make
all on a desert island, cut off a cloak of fighting in the wet and frayed fabric. Then boiled
in a pot a handful of red aniline purchased at a drugstore, and plunged into the dye the old canvas.
Juanillo admired his work. A cloak the most vivid scarlet, which was to arouse much envy in capeas
of the people! ... All that remained was to dry up, and put clothes in the sun from white neighbors.
Wind, to rock the rag dripping, staining the pieces was immediate, and a concert of curses and
threats, fists clenched and mouths that uttered the ugliest words against him and his mother,
Zapaterin forced to pick up his mantle of glory and leave by foot, covered with red face and hands,
as if he had to commit murder.

Mrs Angus, strong female, obese and whiskered, who feared and inspired men respect women for
their strong resolutions, showed himself to disheartened and loose
your child.

What to do! ... His hands habíanse tested in all parts of the body of a child; broom broke no
avail. He was cursed, she said, dog meat. Accustomed away the tremendous headers of the calves,
the cow kicked cruel, sticks to the shepherds and butchers, who were seeking the rascals mercilessly
bullfighting, the beating of the mother seemed to him a natural fact, a continuation of the outer
life, which dragged inside your home, and accept no purpose of amendment, as a cleavage had to
pay in exchange for sustenance, chewing stale bread with ravenous delight, while Maternal curses
and punches rained down on their backs.

Just sated their hunger fled from the house, using the freedom in which he left Mrs. Anxieties
leave for their work.

In The Hood, agora venerable of bullfighting, which circulate the
biggest news of the fans received notice of their colleagues who produce
shivers of excitement.

- Zapaterin, morning run.

The people of the province celebrating the patron saint fiestas with
bull capeas corridos, and there marched the young fighters, in the
hope of being able to say they had turned tended the cape in glorious
places Aznalcollar, Bullullos or Mairena.

Undertook the up at night, with the layer to shoulder if it was summer and wrapped it in the winter,
empty stomach continuously talking bull.

If the march was several days, camping in the open or were admitted for charity in the haystack
of a sale. Woe to the grapes, melons and figs that were to step in
the right time!

... His only concern was that another group, another "gang", had had the same thought and is present
in the village, establishing tough competition.

When they reached the end of his journey, eyebrows and mouth full
of dust, loose and dismissals by the way, were presented to the mayor,
and the most shameless, filling the roles director, spoke of the merits
of his people happy by giving everyone for generosity The chambers
in the municipal block from the inn, giving them over with a pot,
which was clean a few moments.

In the square of the area, closed to cars and tables, soltábanse old bulls, real castles of meat, full
of scabs and scars, horns splintered and large, animals that had many years of being bullfights
at all parties in the province; Revered animals who "knew Latin", such was their malice, and
accustomed to a steady bullfighting were in the secret of fighting skills.

The young men prodded the people to the beasts from a safe place, and people looking for reason fun,
more so than in the bull in the "bullfighters" came from Seville. They tended their coats shaky
legs and encouragement comforted by the weight of the stomach. Tumble, and large uproar in the
audience.

When one, with sudden terror, took refuge in the stockade, peasant barbarism welcomed him with
insults, blows to the hands gripping the wood, giving caned on the legs to jump to the square.
"Gee, you rascal! To give face the bull, a liar !...»

Have you ever taken out of the square to one of the "skilled" between four companions, pale
whiteness of paper, glazed eyes, his head down, his chest like a broken bellows. Came the
farrier, reassuring all seeing no blood.

It was a concussion suffered by the boy to be fired a few yards away, falling to the ground
like a sack of clothes. Other Sometimes it was the anguish of having been trampled by a beast of
enormous grief. He threw a bucket of water over his head, and then, regaining their senses, with
a large obsequiábanle Cazalla drink of brandy from the Sierra. Not a prince could be better care.

In
the square again. And when the pastor did not fit bulls and the approaching release evening,
two of the crew caught the best cape of society, and supported by the tips table in table ranged
from asking for a reward.

Rained down on the red cloth coins copper according to the taste which had given the residents
the exploits of outsiders, and finished undertook the run around the city, knowing that the inn had
exhausted their credit. Often quarreled on the way for the distribution of the coins stored in knotted
handkerchief.

Then in the rest of the week, recalled his exploits in the eyes of the cronies absorbed that
were not the issue.

They spoke of Veronica in the Garrobo, their Navarre Lora, or a terrible caught in El Pedroso, imitating
the air and the real attitudes professionals within walking distance of them comforted their
lack of contracts with every arrogance and lies.

Once, Ms. Angus was more than a week without knowing of his son.

Finally had vague word that he had been injured in an amateur bullfight in the town of bacon.
My God! Where would those people? How to get to him? ... Gave his son died, I cried, wished, however,
go there, and when the trip was available to reach Juanillo, pale, weak, but talking to manly joy
of his accident.

It was nothing: a puntazo in a buttock, a wound several inches deep. And the shamelessness of
the triumph, I wanted to show it to the neighbors, claiming that she got into a finger without
reaching the end. He felt proud of the stench of iodoform that was spreading in its wake, and
spoke of the care with which he had been treated in that town, it was for him the best Spain. Wealthier
neighbors, as it were the aristocracy, were interested in their fate; the mayor had come to him,
after paying the return trip. Still kept in his pocket three dollars, that he gave his mother with
a generosity of a great man. And as much glory to fourteen! Your satisfaction was even greater
when in La Campana, some bullfighters - but real bullfighters - turned their attention to the boy,
asking how its going to hurt.

After this accident did not return to the tent of his master. Knew what they were bulls; his
wound had served to increase his boldness. Torero, torero nothing but! Mrs. Anxieties abandoned
any intention of correcting, judging useless. It was realized that there was his son. When
present in home at night, when the mother and Sister ate together, they did so dish silent,
trying to overwhelm him with contempt. But this in no way altered his chewing. If you arrive
late, do not bore or a crust, and had to turn to the street as he
had come.

Night-walker was in the Alameda de Hercules with vicious eyes other boys, mix Learner confusing criminal
and bullfighter. The neighbors found him sometimes the streets talking to gentlemen whose presence
made women laugh, or with serious gentlemen slander those who gave feminine nicknames. Some
seasons he sold newspapers, and the great feasts of Easter offering to the ladies sitting in the
plaza of San Francisco trays of sweets.

At fair time wandering in the vicinity of the hotel waiting an 'English', since for him all
the passengers were British, hoping to serve as a guide.

- Milord!

... I torero! - Said to see an exotic figure, as if his professional a recommendation was indisputable
for foreigners.

And to certify their identity took off his hat, throwing back the
queue, a lock of a fourth that had stretched out on the top of the
head.

His misery was mate Chiripa, boy the same age, small body and eyes
malicious, without father or mother, who wandered through Seville
since I can remember and exercised on Juanillo the domain of experience.

He had a cut cheek and the scar of a goring, and this signal considerábala the Zapaterin as something
far beyond its invisible injury.

When the door of a hotel, some avid traveler of "local color" with
small talk bullfighters, admiring her pigtails and the story of his
wounds, to stop giving them money, Chiripa sentimental tone said:

-
Nah, you do not give to the practitioners which mare, and I'm alone
in the world er.

Tié mare who does not know what you have!

And Zapaterin, with a sad regret, allowing the other to seize all money, muttering:

- It's true ... is green.

This tenderness did not prevent their continued existence Juanillo abnormal, appearing in Madame
Angustias very from time to time and taking trips away from Sevilla.

Fluke was a master of the wandering life. The days of racing we stated in his will the purpose
of entering into the bullring with his comrade, appealing to it to the stratagems climbing
the walls, sliding or soften the crowd with humble employees pleas.

A bullfight without that they saw them, they were of the profession! ... When capea had not
in the villages of the province, would take his rag to the bulls in the meadow Tablada, but
all these attractions of life in Seville not enough to satisfy his ambition.

Chiripa had run the world, and spoke to his companion of the great
things seen by him in distant provinces.

He was skilled in the art of free travel, surreptitiously sneaking in trains. The Zapaterin
listened with rapt descriptions of Madrid, a city dream with its Plaza de Toros was by way
of a cathedral of bullfighting.

A gentleman, by laughing at them and said to the door of a cafe on the street Sierpes Bilbao
win that much money because there are not many bullfighters in Seville, and the two boys started to
go, clean pocket and no other team that its layers, layers 'real', which had been bullfighters
cartel, miserable wastes acquired real in a few ropavejería.

Introducíanse cautiously on trains and hid under the seats, but hunger and other needs required them to
report their presence to travelers, who eventually sympathize with these adventures, laughing
at their strange shapes, their pigtails and capes, aided with the remains of their lunches.
When an employee gave hunting seasons, running from car to car or attempting to climb the roof
to wait crouched on the train launched. Often surprised them, and grabbing the ears, accompanied
slapped and kicked, left in the lonely station platform as the train
moved away as a forlorn hope.

Awaiting the passage of another, bivouacking outdoors, and if they were closely monitored, undertook
immediate progress towards the station through the deserted fields, certain to be more fortunate.
Just arrived in Madrid after several days of long and eventful journey to the accompaniment
stops strokes. In the streets of Seville and the Puerta del Sol admired groups of fighters without
Contractual higher authorities, who dared to seek, without success,
a charity to continue trip.

A boy from the Plaza de Toros, who was in Seville, took pity on them and let them sleep in
the blocks, providing them the delight of witnessing a run of steers the famous circus, which seemed
less important than its land.

Afraid of their audacity and seeing more and more distant the end of the excursion, undertaken return
to Sevilla as they had come, but since then took a taste for travel sneaking onto the railway. Dirigíanse
minor villages in different provinces when they heard vague news Andalusian holiday with their
capeas.

Just arrived Mancha and Extremadura to, and if the chances of bad luck requiring them to march
foot, seeking refuge in the homes of peasants, gullible people and smiling, which is missed
of its few years of their boldness and deceitful talk, taking them for real tenderers.

This wandering life made them easy ways of primitive man used to meet their needs. In the vicinity
of the cottages on the belly arrastrábanse, stealing vegetables without being seen. They waited for
hours to come near a lone hen to them, and twisting the neck will go on, to light a wood fire
dry in the middle of the day and swallow the poor charred and medium rare animal with a voracious
of little savages. They feared the dogs of the field rather than
the bulls.

It was difficult beasts for the fight, running towards them showing their fangs, as if the anger
his exotic look and sniff in their persons enemies of the property.

Many times when sleeping outdoors near a station, waiting for the passage of a train we got them a couple
of Civil Guards. When you see the red wrappings which served Pillow these vagrants, soldiers
tranquilizábanse order. I gently removed caps, and to find the furry appendage of the queue, they
walked away giggling over inquiries. They were not thieves: they were fans who went to the amateur
bullfight. And in this tolerance was a mixture of sympathy for the national holiday and respect before
the darkness of the future. Who would know if any of these boys ragged, crusty misery, would
be the future an "art star" a great man who sires a toast to kings, live like a prince, whose exploits
and those reproducing the papers! ...

One afternoon, the Zapaterin left alone in a village in Extremadura. For more awe the public
rustic applauding the famous bullfighters' come on purpose of Seville ", the boys wanted flags
nailed to a bully and an old bull. Juanillo put their sticks to the fierce and stayed with a
boardwalk, enjoying receive popular acclaim in the form of slaps and offers tremendous sips
of wine.

An exclamation of horror him out of the intoxication of glory.

Fluke was no longer on the floor of the plaza. Only the flags were in it rolling in the dust a
shoe and cap. She moved the bull as irritated at an obstacle, being engaged one of its horns
a bundle of clothes like a puppet. With the violent headbutts The report was released horn
package, expelling a jet red, but before reaching the soil was achieved by the opposite pole,
which in turn shook him a long time.

At last the sad package fell headlong, and lay there, limp and lifeless, releasing liquid such
as a skin pierced expelling the jets came.

The pastor, with his oxen, took the bull pen, because no one dared approach him, and poor Chiripa
was conducted on a pallet to a small room that served as City Hall imprisonment. Her partner
was with a white face as if it were cast, eyes dull and blood-red body, but it could contain
the vinegar and water wipes it applied in the absence of anything
better.

- Adio, Zapaterin! - Sigh -. Adio, Juaniyo!

And he said
no more. The companion of the dead began returning to Sevilla terrified,
seeing his eyes glassy, ​​hearing his whining goodbyes. I was scared.
A gentle cow coming out the way you had been run. He thought of his
mother and the wisdom of his advice. Was it not better engage shoemaker
and live peacefully? ... But these purposes only lasted while he was
alone.

Arriving in Sevilla felt the influence of environment. The
friends ran to him to know in full detail the death of poor Chiripa.
Professional bullfighters was asked La Campana, remembering with shame
to that urchin cut face that many times they ran errands. Juan, emboldened
by such tokens of regard, giving vent to its power imaginative, describing
how he had thrown on the bull to see his poor caught companion how
he had caught the bug in the queue, and other prodigious feats, despite
which the other had left the world. This had been settled in a council held by Front-de-Boeuf,
De Bracy, and the Templar, in which, after a long and warm debate concerning the several advantages
which each insisted upon deriving from his peculiar share in this audacious enterprise, they
had at length determined the fate of their unhappy prisoners.

It was about the hour of noon, therefore, when De Bracy, for whose advantage the expedition
had been first planned, appeared to prosecute his views upon the hand and possessions of the
Lady Rowena.

The interval had not entirely been bestowed in holding council with his confederates, for De
Bracy had found leisure to decorate his person with all the foppery of the times. His green
cassock and vizard were now flung aside. His long luxuriant hair was trained to flow in quaint
tresses down his richly furred cloak. His beard was closely shaved, his doublet reached to
the middle of his leg, and the girdle which secured it, and at the same time supported his
ponderous sword, was embroidered and embossed with gold work. We have already noticed the extravagant
fashion of the shoes at this period, and the points of Maurice de Bracy's might have challenged
the prize of extravagance with the gayest, being turned up and twisted like the horns of a
ram. Such was the dress of a gallant of the period; and, in the present instance, that effect
was aided by the handsome person and good demeanour of the wearer, whose manners partook alike
of the grace of a courtier, and the frankness of a soldier.

He saluted Rowena by doffing his velvet bonnet, garnished with a golden broach, representing
St Michael trampling down the Prince of Evil. With this, he gently motioned the lady to a seat;
and, as she still retained her standing posture, the knight ungloved his right hand, and motioned
to conduct her thither. But Rowena declined, by her gesture, the proffered compliment, and
replied, "If I be in the presence of my jailor, Sir Knight--nor will circumstances allow me
to think otherwise--it best becomes his prisoner to remain standing till she learns her doom."

"Alas! fair Rowena," returned De Bracy, "you are in presence of your captive, not your jailor;
and it is from your fair eyes that De Bracy must receive that doom which you fondly expect
from him."

"I know you not, sir," said the lady, drawing herself up with all the pride of offended rank
and beauty; "I know you not--and the insolent familiarity with which you apply to me the jargon
of a troubadour, forms no apology for the violence of a robber."

"To thyself, fair maid," answered De Bracy, in his former tone--"to thine own charms be ascribed
whate'er I have done which passed the respect due to her, whom I have chosen queen of my heart,
and lodestar of my eyes."

"I repeat to you, Sir Knight, that I know you not, and that no man wearing chain and spurs
ought thus to intrude himself upon the presence of an unprotected lady."

"That I am unknown to you," said De Bracy, "is indeed my misfortune; yet let me hope that De
Bracy's name has not been always unspoken, when minstrels or heralds have praised deeds of
chivalry, whether in the lists or in the battle-field."

"To heralds and to minstrels, then, leave thy praise, Sir Knight," replied Rowena, "more suiting
for their mouths than for thine own; and tell me which of them shall record in song, or in
book of tourney, the memorable conquest of this night, a conquest obtained over an old man,
followed by a few timid hinds; and its booty, an unfortunate maiden, transported against her
will to the castle of a robber?"

"You are unjust, Lady Rowena," said the knight, biting his lips in some confusion, and speaking
in a tone more natural to him than that of affected gallantry, which he had at first adopted;
"yourself free from passion, you can allow no excuse for the frenzy of another, although caused
by your own beauty."

"I pray you, Sir Knight," said Rowena, "to cease a language so commonly used by strolling minstrels,
that it becomes not the mouth of knights or nobles. Certes, you constrain me to sit down, since
you enter upon such commonplace terms, of which each vile crowder hath a stock that might last
from hence to Christmas."

"Proud damsel," said De Bracy, incensed at finding his gallant style procured him nothing but
contempt--"proud damsel, thou shalt be as proudly encountered. Know then, that I have supported
my pretensions to your hand in the way that best suited thy character. It is meeter for thy
humour to be wooed with bow and bill, than in set terms, and in courtly language."

"Courtesy of tongue," said Rowena, "when it is used to veil churlishness of deed, is but a
knight's girdle around the breast of a base clown. I wonder not that the restraint appears
to gall you--more it were for your honour to have retained the dress and language of an outlaw,
than to veil the deeds of one under an affectation of gentle language and demeanour."

"You counsel well, lady," said the Norman; "and in the bold language which best justifies bold
action I tell thee, thou shalt never leave this castle, or thou shalt leave it as Maurice de
Bracy's wife. I am not wont to be baffled in my enterprises, nor needs a Norman noble scrupulously
to vindicate his conduct to the Saxon maiden whom he distinguishes by the offer of his hand.
Thou art proud, Rowena, and thou art the fitter to be my wife. By what other means couldst
thou be raised to high honour and to princely place, saving by my alliance? How else wouldst
thou escape from the mean precincts of a country grange, where Saxons herd with the swine which
form their wealth, to take thy seat, honoured as thou shouldst be, and shalt be, amid all in
England that is distinguished by beauty, or dignified by power?"

"Sir Knight," replied Rowena, "the grange which you contemn hath been my shelter from infancy;
and, trust me, when I leave it--should that day ever arrive--it shall be with one who has not
learnt to despise the dwelling and manners in which I have been brought up."

"I guess your meaning, lady," said De Bracy, "though you may think it lies too obscure for
my apprehension. But dream not, that Richard Coeur de Lion will ever resume his throne, far
less that Wilfred of Ivanhoe, his minion, will ever lead thee to his footstool, to be there
welcomed as the bride of a favourite. Another suitor might feel jealousy while he touched this
string; but my firm purpose cannot be changed by a passion so childish and so hopeless. Know,
lady, that this rival is in my power, and that it rests but with me to betray the secret of
his being within the castle to Front-de-Boeuf, whose jealousy will be more fatal than mine."

"Wilfred here?" said Rowena, in disdain; "that is as true as that Front-de-Boeuf is his rival."

De Bracy looked at her steadily for an instant.

"Wert thou really ignorant of this?" said he; "didst thou not know that Wilfred of Ivanhoe
travelled in the litter of the Jew?--a meet conveyance for the crusader, whose doughty arm
was to reconquer the Holy Sepulchre!" And he laughed scornfully.

"And if he is here," said Rowena, compelling herself to a tone of indifference, though trembling
with an agony of apprehension which she could not suppress, "in what is he the rival of Front-de-Boeuf?
or what has he to fear beyond a short imprisonment, and an honourable ransom, according to
the use of chivalry?"

"Rowena," said De Bracy, "art thou, too, deceived by the common error of thy sex, who think
there can be no rivalry but that respecting their own charms? Knowest thou not there is a jealousy
of ambition and of wealth, as well as of love; and that this our host, Front-de-Boeuf, will
push from his road him who opposes his claim to the fair barony of Ivanhoe, as readily, eagerly,
and unscrupulously, as if he were preferred to him by some blue-eyed damsel? But smile on my
suit, lady, and the wounded champion shall have nothing to fear from Front-de-Boeuf, whom else
thou mayst mourn for, as in the hands of one who has never shown compassion."

"Save him, for the love of Heaven!" said Rowena, her firmness giving way under terror for her
lover's impending fate.

"I can--I will--it is my purpose," said De Bracy; "for, when Rowena consents to be the bride
of De Bracy, who is it shall dare to put forth a violent hand upon her kinsman--the son of
her guardian--the companion of her youth? But it is thy love must buy his protection. I am
not romantic fool enough to further the fortune, or avert the fate, of one who is likely to
be a successful obstacle between me and my wishes. Use thine influence with me in his behalf,
and he is safe,--refuse to employ it, Wilfred dies, and thou thyself art not the nearer to
freedom."

"Thy language," answered Rowena, "hath in its indifferent bluntness something which cannot
be reconciled with the horrors it seems to express. I believe not that thy purpose is so wicked,
or thy power so great."

"Flatter thyself, then, with that belief," said De Bracy, "until time shall prove it false.
Thy lover lies wounded in this castle--thy preferred lover. He is a bar betwixt Front-de-Boeuf
and that which Front-de-Boeuf loves better than either ambition or beauty. What will it cost
beyond the blow of a poniard, or the thrust of a javelin, to silence his opposition for ever?
Nay, were Front-de-Boeuf afraid to justify a deed so open, let the leech but give his patient
a wrong draught--let the chamberlain, or the nurse who tends him, but pluck the pillow from
his head, and Wilfred in his present condition, is sped without the effusion of blood. Cedric
also--"

"And Cedric also," said Rowena, repeating his words; "my noble--my generous guardian! I deserved
the evil I have encountered, for forgetting his fate even in that of his son!"

"Cedric's fate also depends upon thy determination," said De Bracy; "and I leave thee to form it."

Hitherto, Rowena had sustained her part in this trying scene with undismayed courage, but it
was because she had not considered the danger as serious and imminent. Her disposition was
naturally that which physiognomists consider as proper to fair complexions, mild, timid, and
gentle; but it had been tempered, and, as it were, hardened, by the circumstances of her education.
Accustomed to see the will of all, even of Cedric himself, (sufficiently arbitrary with others,)
give way before her wishes, she had acquired that sort of courage and self-confidence which
arises from the habitual and constant deference of the circle in which we move. She could scarce
conceive the possibility of her will being opposed, far less that of its being treated with
total disregard.

Her haughtiness and habit of domination was, therefore, a fictitious character, induced over
that which was natural to her, and it deserted her when her eyes were opened to the extent
of her own danger, as well as that of her lover and her guardian; and when she found her will,
the slightest expression of which was wont to command respect and attention, now placed in
opposition to that of a man of a strong, fierce, and determined mind, who possessed the advantage
over her, and was resolved to use it, she quailed before him.

After casting her eyes around, as if to look for the aid which was nowhere to be found, and
after a few broken interjections, she raised her hands to heaven, and burst into a passion
of uncontrolled vexation and sorrow. It was impossible to see so beautiful a creature in such
extremity without feeling for her, and De Bracy was not unmoved, though he was yet more embarrassed
than touched. He had, in truth, gone too far to recede; and yet, in Rowena's present condition,
she could not be acted on either by argument or threats. He paced the apartment to and fro,
now vainly exhorting the terrified maiden to compose herself, now hesitating concerning his
own line of conduct.

If, thought he, I should be moved by the tears and sorrow of this disconsolate damsel, what
should I reap but the loss of these fair hopes for which I have encountered so much risk, and
the ridicule of Prince John and his jovial comrades? "And yet," he said to himself, "I feel
myself ill framed for the part which I am playing. I cannot look on so fair a face while it
is disturbed with agony, or on those eyes when they are drowned in tears. I would she had retained
her original haughtiness of disposition, or that I had a larger share of Front-de-Boeuf's thrice-tempered
hardness of heart!"

Agitated by these thoughts, he could only bid the unfortunate Rowena be comforted, and assure
her, that as yet she had no reason for the excess of despair to which she was now giving way.
But in this task of consolation De Bracy was interrupted by the horn, "hoarse-winded blowing
far and keen," which had at the same time alarmed the other inmates of the castle, and interrupted
their several plans of avarice and of license. Of them all, perhaps, De Bracy least regretted
the interruption; for his conference with the Lady Rowena had arrived at a point, where he
found it equally difficult to prosecute or to resign his enterprise.

And here we cannot but think it necessary to offer some better proof than the incidents of
an idle tale, to vindicate the melancholy representation of manners which has been just laid
before the reader. It is grievous to think that those valiant barons, to whose stand against
the crown the liberties of England were indebted for their existence, should themselves have
been such dreadful oppressors, and capable of excesses contrary not only to the laws of England,
but to those of nature and humanity. But, alas! we have only to extract from the industrious
Henry one of those numerous passages which he has collected from contemporary historians, to
prove that fiction itself can hardly reach the dark reality of the horrors of the period.

The description given by the author of the Saxon Chronicle of the cruelties exercised in the
reign of King Stephen by the great barons and lords of castles, who were all Normans, affords
a strong proof of the excesses of which they were capable when their passions were inflamed.
"They grievously oppressed the poor people by building castles; and when they were built, they
filled them with wicked men, or rather devils, who seized both men and women who they imagined
had any money, threw them into prison, and put them to more cruel tortures than the martyrs
ever endured. They suffocated some in mud, and suspended others by the feet, or the head, or
the thumbs, kindling fires below them. They squeezed the heads of some with knotted cords till
they pierced their brains, while they threw others into dungeons swarming with serpents, snakes,
and toads." But it would be cruel to put the reader to the pain of perusing the remainder of
this description. [29]

As another instance of these bitter fruits of conquest, and perhaps the strongest that can
be quoted, we may mention, that the Princess Matilda, though a daughter of the King of Scotland,
and afterwards both Queen of England, niece to Edgar Atheling, and mother to the Empress of
Germany, the daughter, the wife, and the mother of monarchs, was obliged, during her early
residence for education in England, to assume the veil of a nun, as the only means of escaping
the licentious pursuit of the Norman nobles. This excuse she stated before a great council
of the clergy of England, as the sole reason for her having taken the religious habit. The
assembled clergy admitted the validity of the plea, and the notoriety of the circumstances
upon which it was founded; giving thus an indubitable and most remarkable testimony to the
existence of that disgraceful license by which that age was stained. It was a matter of public
knowledge, they said, that after the conquest of King William, his Norman followers, elated
by so great a victory, acknowledged no law but their own wicked pleasure, and not only despoiled
the conquered Saxons of their lands and their goods, but invaded the honour of their wives
and of their daughters with the most unbridled license; and hence it was then common for matrons
and maidens of noble families to assume the veil, and take shelter in convents, not as called
thither by the vocation of God, but solely to preserve their honour from the unbridled wickedness
of man.

Such and so licentious were the times, as announced by the public declaration of the assembled
clergy, recorded by Eadmer; and we need add nothing more to vindicate the probability of the
scenes which we have detailed, and are about to detail, upon the more apocryphal authority
of the Wardour MS.

CHAPTER XXIV

     I'll woo her as the lion woos his bride.
     --Douglas

While the scenes we have described were passing in other parts of the castle, the Jewess Rebecca
awaited her fate in a distant and sequestered turret. Hither she had been led by two of her
disguised ravishers, and on being thrust into the little cell, she found herself in the presence
of an old sibyl, who kept murmuring to herself a Saxon rhyme, as if to beat time to the revolving
dance which her spindle was performing upon the floor. The hag raised her head as Rebecca entered,
and scowled at the fair Jewess with the malignant envy with which old age and ugliness, when
united with evil conditions, are apt to look upon youth and beauty.

"Thou must up and away, old house-cricket," said one of the men; "our noble master commands
it--Thou must e'en leave this chamber to a fairer guest."

"Ay," grumbled the hag, "even thus is service requited. I have known when my bare word would
have cast the best man-at-arms among ye out of saddle and out of service; and now must I up
and away at the command of every groom such as thou."

"Good Dame Urfried," said the other man, "stand not to reason on it, but up and away. Lords'
hests must be listened to with a quick ear. Thou hast had thy day, old dame, but thy sun has
long been set. Thou art now the very emblem of an old war-horse turned out on the barren heath--thou
hast had thy paces in thy time, but now a broken amble is the best of them--Come, amble off
with thee."

"Ill omens dog ye both!" said the old woman; "and a kennel be your burying-place! May the evil
demon Zernebock tear me limb from limb, if I leave my own cell ere I have spun out the hemp
on my distaff!"

"Answer it to our lord, then, old housefiend," said the man, and retired; leaving Rebecca in
company with the old woman, upon whose presence she had been thus unwillingly forced.

"What devil's deed have they now in the wind?" said the old hag, murmuring to herself, yet
from time to time casting a sidelong and malignant glance at Rebecca; "but it is easy to guess--Bright
eyes, black locks, and a skin like paper, ere the priest stains it with his black unguent--Ay,
it is easy to guess why they send her to this lone turret, whence a shriek could no more be
heard than at the depth of five hundred fathoms beneath the earth.--Thou wilt have owls for
thy neighbours, fair one; and their screams will be heard as far, and as much regarded, as
thine own. Outlandish, too," she said, marking the dress and turban of Rebecca--"What country
art thou of?--a Saracen? or an Egyptian?--Why dost not answer?--thou canst weep, canst thou
not speak?"

"Be not angry, good mother," said Rebecca.

"Thou needst say no more," replied Urfried "men know a fox by the train, and a Jewess by her
tongue."

"For the sake of mercy," said Rebecca, "tell me what I am to expect as the conclusion of the
violence which hath dragged me hither! Is it my life they seek, to atone for my religion? I
will lay it down cheerfully."

"Thy life, minion?" answered the sibyl; "what would taking thy life pleasure them?--Trust me,
thy life is in no peril. Such usage shalt thou have as was once thought good enough for a noble
Saxon maiden. And shall a Jewess, like thee, repine because she hath no better? Look at me--I
was as young and twice as fair as thou, when Front-de-Boeuf, father of this Reginald, and his
Normans, stormed this castle. My father and his seven sons defended their inheritance from
story to story, from chamber to chamber--There was not a room, not a step of the stair, that
was not slippery with their blood. They died--they died every man; and ere their bodies were
cold, and ere their blood was dried, I had become the prey and the scorn of the conqueror!"

"Is there no help?--Are there no means of escape?" said Rebecca--"Richly, richly would I requite
thine aid."

"Think not of it," said the hag; "from hence there is no escape but through the gates of death;
and it is late, late," she added, shaking her grey head, "ere these open to us--Yet it is comfort
to think that we leave behind us on earth those who shall be wretched as ourselves. Fare thee
well, Jewess!--Jew or Gentile, thy fate would be the same; for thou hast to do with them that
have neither scruple nor pity. Fare thee well, I say. My thread is spun out--thy task is yet
to begin."

"Stay! stay! for Heaven's sake!" said Rebecca; "stay, though it be to curse and to revile me--thy
presence is yet some protection."

"The presence of the mother of God were no protection," answered the old woman. "There she
stands," pointing to a rude image of the Virgin Mary, "see if she can avert the fate that awaits
thee."

She left the room as she spoke, her features writhed into a sort of sneering laugh, which made
them seem even more hideous than their habitual frown. She locked the door behind her, and
Rebecca might hear her curse every step for its steepness, as slowly and with difficulty she
descended the turret-stair.

Rebecca was now to expect a fate even more dreadful than that of Rowena; for what probability
was there that either softness or ceremony would be used towards one of her oppressed race,
whatever shadow of these might be preserved towards a Saxon heiress? Yet had the Jewess this
advantage, that she was better prepared by habits of thought, and by natural strength of mind,
to encounter the dangers to which she was exposed. Of a strong and observing character, even
from her earliest years, the pomp and wealth which her father displayed within his walls, or
which she witnessed in the houses of other wealthy Hebrews, had not been able to blind her
to the precarious circumstances under which they were enjoyed. Like Damocles at his celebrated
banquet, Rebecca perpetually beheld, amid that gorgeous display, the sword which was suspended
over the heads of her people by a single hair. These reflections had tamed and brought down
to a pitch of sounder judgment a temper, which, under other circumstances, might have waxed
haughty, supercilious, and obstinate.

From her father's example and injunctions, Rebecca had learnt to bear herself courteously towards
all who approached her. She could not indeed imitate his excess of subservience, because she
was a stranger to the meanness of mind, and to the constant state of timid apprehension, by
which it was dictated; but she bore herself with a proud humility, as if submitting to the
evil circumstances in which she was placed as the daughter of a despised race, while she felt
in her mind the consciousness that she was entitled to hold a higher rank from her merit, than
the arbitrary despotism of religious prejudice permitted her to aspire to.

Thus prepared to expect adverse circumstances, she had acquired the firmness necessary for
acting under them. Her present situation required all her presence of mind, and she summoned
it up accordingly.

Her first care was to inspect the apartment; but it afforded few hopes either of escape or
protection. It contained neither secret passage nor trap-door, and unless where the door by
which she had entered joined the main building, seemed to be circumscribed by the round exterior
wall of the turret. The door had no inside bolt or bar. The single window opened upon an embattled
space surmounting the turret, which gave Rebecca, at first sight, some hopes of escaping; but
she soon found it had no communication with any other part of the battlements, being an isolated
bartisan, or balcony, secured, as usual, by a parapet, with embrasures, at which a few archers
might be stationed for defending the turret, and flanking with their shot the wall of the castle
on that side.

There was therefore no hope but in passive fortitude, and in that strong reliance on Heaven
natural to great and generous characters. Rebecca, however erroneously taught to interpret
the promises of Scripture to the chosen people of Heaven, did not err in supposing the present
to be their hour of trial, or in trusting that the children of Zion would be one day called
in with the fulness of the Gentiles. In the meanwhile, all around her showed that their present
state was that of punishment and probation, and that it was their especial duty to suffer without
sinning. Thus prepared to consider herself as the victim of misfortune, Rebecca had early reflected
upon her own state, and schooled her mind to meet the dangers which she had probably to encounter.

The prisoner trembled, however, and changed colour, when a step was heard on the stair, and
the door of the turret-chamber slowly opened, and a tall man, dressed as one of those banditti
to whom they owed their misfortune, slowly entered, and shut the door behind him; his cap,
pulled down upon his brows, concealed the upper part of his face, and he held his mantle in
such a manner as to muffle the rest. In this guise, as if prepared for the execution of some
deed, at the thought of which he was himself ashamed, he stood before the affrighted prisoner;
yet, ruffian as his dress bespoke him, he seemed at a loss to express what purpose had brought
him thither, so that Rebecca, making an effort upon herself, had time to anticipate his explanation.
She had already unclasped two costly bracelets and a collar, which she hastened to proffer
to the supposed outlaw, concluding naturally that to gratify his avarice was to bespeak his favour.

"Take these," she said, "good friend, and for God's sake be merciful to me and my aged father!
These ornaments are of value, yet are they trifling to what he would bestow to obtain our dismissal
from this castle, free and uninjured."

"Fair flower of Palestine," replied the outlaw, "these pearls are orient, but they yield in
whiteness to your teeth; the diamonds are brilliant, but they cannot match your eyes; and ever
since I have taken up this wild trade, I have made a vow to prefer beauty to wealth."

"Do not do yourself such wrong," said Rebecca; "take ransom, and have mercy!--Gold will purchase
you pleasure,--to misuse us, could only bring thee remorse. My father will willingly satiate
thy utmost wishes; and if thou wilt act wisely, thou mayst purchase with our spoils thy restoration
to civil society--mayst obtain pardon for past errors, and be placed beyond the necessity of
committing more."

"It is well spoken," replied the outlaw in French, finding it difficult probably to sustain,
in Saxon, a conversation which Rebecca had opened in that language; "but know, bright lily
of the vale of Baca! that thy father is already in the hands of a powerful alchemist, who knows
how to convert into gold and silver even the rusty bars of a dungeon grate. The venerable Isaac
is subjected to an alembic, which will distil from him all he holds dear, without any assistance
from my requests or thy entreaty. The ransom must be paid by love and beauty, and in no other
coin will I accept it."

"Thou art no outlaw," said Rebecca, in the same language in which he addressed her; "no outlaw
had refused such offers. No outlaw in this land uses the dialect in which thou hast spoken.
Thou art no outlaw, but a Norman--a Norman, noble perhaps in birth--O, be so in thy actions,
and cast off this fearful mask of outrage and violence!"

"And thou, who canst guess so truly," said Brian de Bois-Guilbert, dropping the mantle from
his face, "art no true daughter of Israel, but in all, save youth and beauty, a very witch
of Endor. I am not an outlaw, then, fair rose of Sharon. And I am one who will be more prompt
to hang thy neck and arms with pearls and diamonds, which so well become them, than to deprive
thee of these ornaments."

"What wouldst thou have of me," said Rebecca, "if not my wealth?--We can have nought in common
between us--you are a Christian--I am a Jewess.--Our union were contrary to the laws, alike
of the church and the synagogue."

"It were so, indeed," replied the Templar, laughing; "wed with a Jewess? 'Despardieux!'--Not
if she were the Queen of Sheba! And know, besides, sweet daughter of Zion, that were the most
Christian king to offer me his most Christian daughter, with Languedoc for a dowery, I could
not wed her. It is against my vow to love any maiden, otherwise than 'par amours', as I will
love thee. I am a Templar. Behold the cross of my Holy Order."

"Darest thou appeal to it," said Rebecca, "on an occasion like the present?"

"And if I do so," said the Templar, "it concerns not thee, who art no believer in the blessed
sign of our salvation."

"I believe as my fathers taught," said Rebecca; "and may God forgive my belief if erroneous!
But you, Sir Knight, what is yours, when you appeal without scruple to that which you deem
most holy, even while you are about to transgress the most solemn of your vows as a knight,
and as a man of religion?"

"It is gravely and well preached, O daughter of Sirach!" answered the Templar; "but, gentle
Ecclesiastics, thy narrow Jewish prejudices make thee blind to our high privilege. Marriage
were an enduring crime on the part of a Templar; but what lesser folly I may practise, I shall
speedily be absolved from at the next Preceptory of our Order. Not the wisest of monarchs,
not his father, whose examples you must needs allow are weighty, claimed wider privileges than
we poor soldiers of the Temple of Zion have won by our zeal in its defence. The protectors
of Solomon's Temple may claim license by the example of Solomon."

"If thou readest the Scripture," said the Jewess, "and the lives of the saints, only to justify
thine own license and profligacy, thy crime is like that of him who extracts poison from the
most healthful and necessary herbs."

The eyes of the Templar flashed fire at this reproof--"Hearken," he said, "Rebecca; I have
hitherto spoken mildly to thee, but now my language shall be that of a conqueror. Thou art
the captive of my bow and spear--subject to my will by the laws of all nations; nor will I
abate an inch of my right, or abstain from taking by violence what thou refusest to entreaty
or necessity."

"Stand back," said Rebecca--"stand back, and hear me ere thou offerest to commit a sin so deadly!
My strength thou mayst indeed overpower for God made women weak, and trusted their defence
to man's generosity. But I will proclaim thy villainy, Templar, from one end of Europe to the
other. I will owe to the superstition of thy brethren what their compassion might refuse me,
Each Preceptory--each Chapter of thy Order, shall learn, that, like a heretic, thou hast sinned
with a Jewess. Those who tremble not at thy crime, will hold thee accursed for having so far
dishonoured the cross thou wearest, as to follow a daughter of my people."

"Thou art keen-witted, Jewess," replied the Templar, well aware of the truth of what she spoke,
and that the rules of his Order condemned in the most positive manner, and under high penalties,
such intrigues as he now prosecuted, and that, in some instances, even degradation had followed
upon it--"thou art sharp-witted," he said; "but loud must be thy voice of complaint, if it
is heard beyond the iron walls of this castle; within these, murmurs, laments, appeals to justice,
and screams for help, die alike silent away. One thing only can save thee, Rebecca. Submit
to thy fate--embrace our religion, and thou shalt go forth in such state, that many a Norman
lady shall yield as well in pomp as in beauty to the favourite of the best lance among the
defenders of the Temple."

"Submit to my fate!" said Rebecca--"and, sacred Heaven! to what fate?--embrace thy religion!
and what religion can it be that harbours such a villain?--THOU the best lance of the Templars!--Craven
knight!--forsworn priest! I spit at thee, and I defy thee.--The God of Abraham's promise hath
opened an escape to his daughter--even from this abyss of infamy!"

As she spoke, she threw open the latticed window which led to the bartisan, and in an instant
after, stood on the very verge of the parapet, with not the slightest screen between her and
the tremendous depth below. Unprepared for such a desperate effort, for she had hitherto stood
perfectly motionless, Bois-Guilbert had neither time to intercept nor to stop her. As he offered
to advance, she exclaimed, "Remain where thou art, proud Templar, or at thy choice advance!--one
foot nearer, and I plunge myself from the precipice; my body shall be crushed out of the very
form of humanity upon the stones of that court-yard, ere it become the victim of thy brutality!"

As she spoke this, she clasped her hands and extended them towards heaven, as if imploring
mercy on her soul before she made the final plunge. The Templar hesitated, and a resolution
which had never yielded to pity or distress, gave way to his admiration of her fortitude. "Come
down," he said, "rash girl!--I swear by earth, and sea, and sky, I will offer thee no offence."

"I will not trust thee, Templar," said Rebecca; "thou hast taught me better how to estimate
the virtues of thine Order. The next Preceptory would grant thee absolution for an oath, the
keeping of which concerned nought but the honour or the dishonour of a miserable Jewish maiden."

"You do me injustice," exclaimed the Templar fervently; "I swear to you by the name which I
bear--by the cross on my bosom--by the sword on my side--by the ancient crest of my fathers
do I swear, I will do thee no injury whatsoever! If not for thyself, yet for thy father's sake
forbear! I will be his friend, and in this castle he will need a powerful one."

"Alas!" said Rebecca, "I know it but too well--dare I trust thee?"

"May my arms be reversed, and my name dishonoured," said Brian de Bois-Guilbert, "if thou shalt
have reason to complain of me! Many a law, many a commandment have I broken, but my word never."

"I will then trust thee," said Rebecca, "thus far;" and she descended from the verge of the
battlement, but remained standing close by one of the embrasures, or "machicolles", as they
were then called.--"Here," she said, "I take my stand. Remain where thou art, and if thou shalt
attempt to diminish by one step the distance now between us, thou shalt see that the Jewish
maiden will rather trust her soul with God, than her honour to the Templar!"

While Rebecca spoke thus, her high and firm resolve, which corresponded so well with the expressive
beauty of her countenance, gave to her looks, air, and manner, a dignity that seemed more than
mortal. Her glance quailed not, her cheek blanched not, for the fear of a fate so instant and
so horrible; on the contrary, the thought that she had her fate at her command, and could escape
at will from infamy to death, gave a yet deeper colour of carnation to her complexion, and
a yet more brilliant fire to her eye. Bois-Guilbert, proud himself and high-spirited, thought
he had never beheld beauty so animated and so commanding.

"Let there be peace between us, Rebecca," he said.

"Peace, if thou wilt," answered Rebecca--"Peace--but with this space between."

"Thou needst no longer fear me," said Bois-Guilbert.

"I fear thee not," replied she; "thanks to him that reared this dizzy tower so high, that nought
could fall from it and live--thanks to him, and to the God of Israel!--I fear thee not."

"Thou dost me injustice," said the Templar; "by earth, sea, and sky, thou dost me injustice!
I am not naturally that which you have seen me, hard, selfish, and relentless. It was woman
that taught me cruelty, and on woman therefore I have exercised it; but not upon such as thou.
Hear me, Rebecca--Never did knight take lance in his hand with a heart more devoted to the
lady of his love than Brian de Bois-Guilbert. She, the daughter of a petty baron, who boasted
for all his domains but a ruinous tower, and an unproductive vineyard, and some few leagues
of the barren Landes of Bourdeaux, her name was known wherever deeds of arms were done, known
wider than that of many a lady's that had a county for a dowery.--Yes," he continued, pacing
up and down the little platform, with an animation in which he seemed to lose all consciousness
of Rebecca's presence--"Yes, my deeds, my danger, my blood, made the name of Adelaide de Montemare
known from the court of Castile to that of Byzantium. And how was I requited?--When I returned
with my dear-bought honours, purchased by toil and blood, I found her wedded to a Gascon squire,
whose name was never heard beyond the limits of his own paltry domain! Truly did I love her,
and bitterly did I revenge me of her broken faith! But my vengeance has recoiled on myself.
Since that day I have separated myself from life and its ties--My manhood must know no domestic
home--must be soothed by no affectionate wife--My age must know no kindly hearth--My grave
must be solitary, and no offspring must outlive me, to bear the ancient name of Bois-Guilbert.
At the feet of my Superior I have laid down the right of self-action--the privilege of independence.
The Templar, a serf in all but the name, can possess neither lands nor goods, and lives, moves,
and breathes, but at the will and pleasure of another."

"Alas!" said Rebecca, "what advantages could compensate for such an absolute sacrifice?"

"The power of vengeance, Rebecca," replied the Templar, "and the prospects of ambition."

"An evil recompense," said Rebecca, "for the surrender of the rights which are dearest to humanity."

"Say not so, maiden," answered the Templar; "revenge is a feast for the gods! And if they have
reserved it, as priests tell us, to themselves, it is because they hold it an enjoyment too
precious for the possession of mere mortals.--And ambition? it is a temptation which could
disturb even the bliss of heaven itself."--He paused a moment, and then added, "Rebecca! she
who could prefer death to dishonour, must have a proud and a powerful soul. Mine thou must
be!--Nay, start not," he added, "it must be with thine own consent, and on thine own terms.
Thou must consent to share with me hopes more extended than can be viewed from the throne of
a monarch!--Hear me ere you answer and judge ere you refuse.--The Templar loses, as thou hast
said, his social rights, his power of free agency, but he becomes a member and a limb of a
mighty body, before which thrones already tremble,--even as the single drop of rain which mixes
with the sea becomes an individual part of that resistless ocean, which undermines rocks and
ingulfs royal armadas. Such a swelling flood is that powerful league. Of this mighty Order
I am no mean member, but already one of the Chief Commanders, and may well aspire one day to
hold the batoon of Grand Master. The poor soldiers of the Temple will not alone place their
foot upon the necks of kings--a hemp-sandall'd monk can do that. Our mailed step shall ascend
their throne--our gauntlet shall wrench the sceptre from their gripe. Not the reign of your
vainly-expected Messiah offers such power to your dispersed tribes as my ambition may aim at.
I have sought but a kindred spirit to share it, and I have found such in thee."

"Sayest thou this to one of my people?" answered Rebecca. "Bethink thee--"

"Answer me not," said the Templar, "by urging the difference of our creeds; within our secret
conclaves we hold these nursery tales in derision. Think not we long remained blind to the
idiotical folly of our founders, who forswore every delight of life for the pleasure of dying
martyrs by hunger, by thirst, and by pestilence, and by the swords of savages, while they vainly
strove to defend a barren desert, valuable only in the eyes of superstition. Our Order soon
adopted bolder and wider views, and found out a better indemnification for our sacrifices.
Our immense possessions in every kingdom of Europe, our high military fame, which brings within
our circle the flower of chivalry from every Christian clime--these are dedicated to ends of
which our pious founders little dreamed, and which are equally concealed from such weak spirits
as embrace our Order on the ancient principles, and whose superstition makes them our passive
tools. But I will not further withdraw the veil of our mysteries. That bugle-sound announces
something which may require my presence. Think on what I have said.--Farewell!--I do not say
forgive me the violence I have threatened, for it was necessary to the display of thy character.
Gold can be only known by the application of the touchstone. I will soon return, and hold further
conference with thee."

He re-entered the turret-chamber, and descended the stair, leaving Rebecca scarcely more terrified
at the prospect of the death to which she had been so lately exposed, than at the furious ambition
of the bold bad man in whose power she found herself so unhappily placed. When she entered
the turret-chamber, her first duty was to return thanks to the God of Jacob for the protection
which he had afforded her, and to implore its continuance for her and for her father. Another
name glided into her petition--it was that of the wounded Christian, whom fate had placed in
the hands of bloodthirsty men, his avowed enemies. Her heart indeed checked her, as if, even
in communing with the Deity in prayer, she mingled in her devotions the recollection of one
with whose fate hers could have no alliance--a Nazarene, and an enemy to her faith. But the
petition was already breathed, nor could all the narrow prejudices of her sect induce Rebecca
to wish it recalled.

CHAPTER XXV

  A damn'd cramp piece of penmanship as ever I saw in my life!
  --She Stoops to Conquer

When the Templar reached the hall of the castle, he found De Bracy already there. "Your love-suit,"
said De Bracy, "hath, I suppose, been disturbed, like mine, by this obstreperous summons. But
you have come later and more reluctantly, and therefore I presume your interview has proved
more agreeable than mine."

"Has your suit, then, been unsuccessfully paid to the Saxon heiress?" said the Templar.

"By the bones of Thomas a Becket," answered De Bracy, "the Lady Rowena must have heard that
I cannot endure the sight of women's tears."

"Away!" said the Templar; "thou a leader of a Free Company, and regard a woman's tears! A few
drops sprinkled on the torch of love, make the flame blaze the brighter."

"Gramercy for the few drops of thy sprinkling," replied De Bracy; "but this damsel hath wept
enough to extinguish a beacon-light. Never was such wringing of hands and such overflowing
of eyes, since the days of St Niobe, of whom Prior Aymer told us. [30] A water-fiend hath possessed
the fair Saxon."

"A legion of fiends have occupied the bosom of the Jewess," replied the Templar; "for, I think
no single one, not even Apollyon himself, could have inspired such indomitable pride and resolution.--But
where is Front-de-Boeuf? That horn is sounded more and more clamorously."

"He is negotiating with the Jew, I suppose," replied De Bracy, coolly; "probably the howls
of Isaac have drowned the blast of the bugle. Thou mayst know, by experience, Sir Brian, that
a Jew parting with his treasures on such terms as our friend Front-de-Boeuf is like to offer,
will raise a clamour loud enough to be heard over twenty horns and trumpets to boot. But we
will make the vassals call him."

They were soon after joined by Front-de-Boeuf, who had been disturbed in his tyrannic cruelty
in the manner with which the reader is acquainted, and had only tarried to give some necessary
directions.

"Let us see the cause of this cursed clamour," said Front-de-Boeuf--"here is a letter, and,
if I mistake not, it is in Saxon."

He looked at it, turning it round and round as if he had had really some hopes of coming at
the meaning by inverting the position of the paper, and then handed it to De Bracy.

"It may be magic spells for aught I know," said De Bracy, who possessed his full proportion
of the ignorance which characterised the chivalry of the period. "Our chaplain attempted to
teach me to write," he said, "but all my letters were formed like spear-heads and sword-blades,
and so the old shaveling gave up the task."

"Give it me," said the Templar. "We have that of the priestly character, that we have some
knowledge to enlighten our valour."

"Let us profit by your most reverend knowledge, then," said De Bracy; "what says the scroll?"

"It is a formal letter of defiance," answered the Templar; "but, by our Lady of Bethlehem,
if it be not a foolish jest, it is the most extraordinary cartel that ever was sent across
the drawbridge of a baronial castle."

"Jest!" said Front-de-Boeuf, "I would gladly know who dares jest with me in such a matter!--Read
it, Sir Brian."

The Templar accordingly read it as follows:--"I, Wamba, the son of Witless, Jester to a noble
and free-born man, Cedric of Rotherwood, called the Saxon,--And I, Gurth, the son of Beowulph,
the swineherd---"

"Thou art mad," said Front-de-Boeuf, interrupting the reader.

"By St Luke, it is so set down," answered the Templar. Then resuming his task, he went on,--"I,
Gurth, the son of Beowulph, swineherd unto the said Cedric, with the assistance of our allies
and confederates, who make common cause with us in this our feud, namely, the good knight,
called for the present 'Le Noir Faineant', and the stout yeoman, Robert Locksley, called Cleave-the-Wand.
Do you, Reginald Front de-Boeuf, and your allies and accomplices whomsoever, to wit, that whereas
you have, without cause given or feud declared, wrongfully and by mastery seized upon the person
of our lord and master the said Cedric; also upon the person of a noble and freeborn damsel,
the Lady Rowena of Hargottstandstede; also upon the person of a noble and freeborn man, Athelstane
of Coningsburgh; also upon the persons of certain freeborn men, their 'cnichts'; also upon
certain serfs, their born bondsmen; also upon a certain Jew, named Isaac of York, together
with his daughter, a Jewess, and certain horses and mules: Which noble persons, with their
'cnichts' and slaves, and also with the horses and mules, Jew and Jewess beforesaid, were all
in peace with his majesty, and travelling as liege subjects upon the king's highway; therefore
we require and demand that the said noble persons, namely, Cedric of Rotherwood, Rowena of
Hargottstandstede, Athelstane of Coningsburgh, with their servants, 'cnichts', and followers,
also the horses and mules, Jew and Jewess aforesaid, together with all goods and chattels to
them pertaining, be, within an hour after the delivery hereof, delivered to us, or to those
whom we shall appoint to receive the same, and that untouched and unharmed in body and goods.
Failing of which, we do pronounce to you, that we hold ye as robbers and traitors, and will
wager our bodies against ye in battle, siege, or otherwise, and do our utmost to your annoyance
and destruction. Wherefore may God have you in his keeping.--Signed by us upon the eve of St
Withold's day, under the great trysting oak in the Hart-hill Walk, the above being written
by a holy man, Clerk to God, our Lady, and St Dunstan, in the Chapel of Copmanhurst."

At the bottom of this document was scrawled, in the first place, a rude sketch of a cock's
head and comb, with a legend expressing this hieroglyphic to be the sign-manual of Wamba, son
of Witless. Under this respectable emblem stood a cross, stated to be the mark of Gurth, the
son of Beowulph. Then was written, in rough bold characters, the words, "Le Noir Faineant".
And, to conclude the whole, an arrow, neatly enough drawn, was described as the mark of the
yeoman Locksley.

The knights heard this uncommon document read from end to end, and then gazed upon each other
in silent amazement, as being utterly at a loss to know what it could portend. De Bracy was
the first to break silence by an uncontrollable fit of laughter, wherein he was joined, though
with more moderation, by the Templar. Front-de-Boeuf, on the contrary, seemed impatient of
their ill-timed jocularity.

"I give you plain warning," he said, "fair sirs, that you had better consult how to bear yourselves
under these circumstances, than give way to such misplaced merriment."

"Front-de-Boeuf has not recovered his temper since his late overthrow," said De Bracy to the
Templar; "he is cowed at the very idea of a cartel, though it come but from a fool and a swineherd."

"By St Michael," answered Front-de-Boeuf, "I would thou couldst stand the whole brunt of this
adventure thyself, De Bracy. These fellows dared not have acted with such inconceivable impudence,
had they not been supported by some strong bands. There are enough of outlaws in this forest
to resent my protecting the deer. I did but tie one fellow, who was taken redhanded and in
the fact, to the horns of a wild stag, which gored him to death in five minutes, and I had
as many arrows shot at me as there were launched against yonder target at Ashby.--Here, fellow,"
he added, to one of his attendants, "hast thou sent out to see by what force this precious
challenge is to be supported?"

"There are at least two hundred men assembled in the woods," answered a squire who was in attendance.

"Here is a proper matter!" said Front-de-Boeuf, "this comes of lending you the use of my castle,
that cannot manage your undertaking quietly, but you must bring this nest of hornets about
my ears!"

"Of hornets?" said De Bracy; "of stingless drones rather; a band of lazy knaves, who take to
the wood, and destroy the venison rather than labour for their maintenance."

"Stingless!" replied Front-de-Boeuf; "fork-headed shafts of a cloth-yard in length, and these
shot within the breadth of a French crown, are sting enough."

"For shame, Sir Knight!" said the Templar. "Let us summon our people, and sally forth upon
them. One knight--ay, one man-at-arms, were enough for twenty such peasants."

"Enough, and too much," said De Bracy; "I should only be ashamed to couch lance against them."

"True," answered Front-de-Boeuf; "were they black Turks or Moors, Sir Templar, or the craven
peasants of France, most valiant De Bracy; but these are English yeomen, over whom we shall
have no advantage, save what we may derive from our arms and horses, which will avail us little
in the glades of the forest. Sally, saidst thou? we have scarce men enough to defend the castle.
The best of mine are at York; so is all your band, De Bracy; and we have scarcely twenty, besides
the handful that were engaged in this mad business."

"Thou dost not fear," said the Templar, "that they can assemble in force sufficient to attempt
the castle?"

"Not so, Sir Brian," answered Front-de-Boeuf. "These outlaws have indeed a daring captain;
but without machines, scaling ladders, and experienced leaders, my castle may defy them."

"Send to thy neighbours," said the Templar, "let them assemble their people, and come to the
rescue of three knights, besieged by a jester and a swineherd in the baronial castle of Reginald
Front-de-Boeuf!"

"You jest, Sir Knight," answered the baron; "but to whom should I send?--Malvoisin is by this
time at York with his retainers, and so are my other allies; and so should I have been, but
for this infernal enterprise."

"Then send to York, and recall our people," said De Bracy. "If they abide the shaking of my
standard, or the sight of my Free Companions, I will give them credit for the boldest outlaws
ever bent bow in green-wood."

"And who shall bear such a message?" said Front-de-Boeuf; "they will beset every path, and
rip the errand out of his bosom.--I have it," he added, after pausing for a moment--"Sir Templar,
thou canst write as well as read, and if we can but find the writing materials of my chaplain,
who died a twelvemonth since in the midst of his Christmas carousals--"

"So please ye," said the squire, who was still in attendance, "I think old Urfried has them
somewhere in keeping, for love of the confessor. He was the last man, I have heard her tell,
who ever said aught to her, which man ought in courtesy to address to maid or matron."

"Go, search them out, Engelred," said Front-de-Boeuf; "and then, Sir Templar, thou shalt return
an answer to this bold challenge."

"I would rather do it at the sword's point than at that of the pen," said Bois-Guilbert; "but
be it as you will."

He sat down accordingly, and indited, in the French language, an epistle of the following tenor:--"Sir
Reginald Front-de-Boeuf, with his noble and knightly allies and confederates, receive no defiances
at the hands of slaves, bondsmen, or fugitives. If the person calling himself the Black Knight
have indeed a claim to the honours of chivalry, he ought to know that he stands degraded by
his present association, and has no right to ask reckoning at the hands of good men of noble
blood. Touching the prisoners we have made, we do in Christian charity require you to send
a man of religion, to receive their confession, and reconcile them with God; since it is our
fixed intention to execute them this morning before noon, so that their heads being placed
on the battlements, shall show to all men how lightly we esteem those who have bestirred themselves
in their rescue. Wherefore, as above, we require you to send a priest to reconcile them to
God, in doing which you shall render them the last earthly service."

This letter being folded, was delivered to the squire, and by him to the messenger who waited
without, as the answer to that which he had brought.

The yeoman having thus accomplished his mission, returned to the head-quarters of the allies,
which were for the present established under a venerable oak-tree, about three arrow-flights
distant from the castle. Here Wamba and Gurth, with their allies the Black Knight and Locksley,
and the jovial hermit, awaited with impatience an answer to their summons. Around, and at a
distance from them, were seen many a bold yeoman, whose silvan dress and weatherbeaten countenances
showed the ordinary nature of their occupation. More than two hundred had already assembled,
and others were fast coming in. Those whom they obeyed as leaders were only distinguished from
the others by a feather in the cap, their dress, arms, and equipments being in all other respects
the same.

Besides these bands, a less orderly and a worse armed force, consisting of the Saxon inhabitants
of the neighbouring township, as well as many bondsmen and servants from Cedric's extensive
estate, had already arrived, for the purpose of assisting in his rescue. Few of these were
armed otherwise than with such rustic weapons as necessity sometimes converts to military purposes.
Boar-spears, scythes, flails, and the like, were their chief arms; for the Normans, with the
usual policy of conquerors, were jealous of permitting to the vanquished Saxons the possession
or the use of swords and spears. These circumstances rendered the assistance of the Saxons
far from being so formidable to the besieged, as the strength of the men themselves, their
superior numbers, and the animation inspired by a just cause, might otherwise well have made
them. It was to the leaders of this motley army that the letter of the Templar was now delivered.

Reference was at first made to the chaplain for an exposition of its contents.

"By the crook of St Dunstan," said that worthy ecclesiastic, "which hath brought more sheep
within the sheepfold than the crook of e'er another saint in Paradise, I swear that I cannot
expound unto you this jargon, which, whether it be French or Arabic, is beyond my guess."

He then gave the letter to Gurth, who shook his head gruffly, and passed it to Wamba. The Jester
looked at each of the four corners of the paper with such a grin of affected intelligence as
a monkey is apt to assume upon similar occasions, then cut a caper, and gave the letter to
Locksley.

"If the long letters were bows, and the short letters broad arrows, I might know something
of the matter," said the brave yeoman; "but as the matter stands, the meaning is as safe, for
me, as the stag that's at twelve miles distance."

"I must be clerk, then," said the Black Knight; and taking the letter from Locksley, he first
read it over to himself, and then explained the meaning in Saxon to his confederates.

"Execute the noble Cedric!" exclaimed Wamba; "by the rood, thou must be mistaken, Sir Knight."

"Not I, my worthy friend," replied the knight, "I have explained the words as they are here
set down."

"Then, by St Thomas of Canterbury," replied Gurth, "we will have the castle, should we tear
it down with our hands!"

"We have nothing else to tear it with," replied Wamba; "but mine are scarce fit to make mammocks
of freestone and mortar."

"'Tis but a contrivance to gain time," said Locksley; "they dare not do a deed for which I
could exact a fearful penalty."

"I would," said the Black Knight, "there were some one among us who could obtain admission
into the castle, and discover how the case stands with the besieged. Methinks, as they require
a confessor to be sent, this holy hermit might at once exercise his pious vocation, and procure
us the information we desire."

"A plague on thee, and thy advice!" said the pious hermit; "I tell thee, Sir Slothful Knight,
that when I doff my friar's frock, my priesthood, my sanctity, my very Latin, are put off along
with it; and when in my green jerkin, I can better kill twenty deer than confess one Christian."

"I fear," said the Black Knight, "I fear greatly, there is no one here that is qualified to
take upon him, for the nonce, this same character of father confessor?"

All looked on each other, and were silent.

"I see," said Wamba, after a short pause, "that the fool must be still the fool, and put his
neck in the venture which wise men shrink from. You must know, my dear cousins and countrymen,
that I wore russet before I wore motley, and was bred to be a friar, until a brain-fever came
upon me and left me just wit enough to be a fool. I trust, with the assistance of the good
hermit's frock, together with the priesthood, sanctity, and learning which are stitched into
the cowl of it, I shall be found qualified to administer both worldly and ghostly comfort to
our worthy master Cedric, and his companions in adversity."

"Hath he sense enough, thinkst thou?" said the Black Knight, addressing Gurth.

"I know not," said Gurth; "but if he hath not, it will be the first time he hath wanted wit
to turn his folly to account."

"On with the frock, then, good fellow," quoth the Knight, "and let thy master send us an account
of their situation within the castle. Their numbers must be few, and it is five to one they
may be accessible by a sudden and bold attack. Time wears--away with thee."

"And, in the meantime," said Locksley, "we will beset the place so closely, that not so much
as a fly shall carry news from thence. So that, my good friend," he continued, addressing Wamba,
"thou mayst assure these tyrants, that whatever violence they exercise on the persons of their
prisoners, shall be most severely repaid upon their own."

"Pax vobiscum," said Wamba, who was now muffled in his religious disguise.

And so saying he imitated the solemn and stately deportment of a friar, and departed to execute
his mission.

CHAPTER XXVI

     The hottest horse will oft be cool,
     The dullest will show fire;
     The friar will often play the fool,
     The fool will play the friar.
     --Old Song

When the Jester, arrayed in the cowl and frock of the hermit, and having his knotted cord twisted
round his middle, stood before the portal of the castle of Front-de-Boeuf, the warder demanded
of him his name and errand.

"Pax vobiscum," answered the Jester, "I am a poor brother of the Order of St Francis, who come
hither to do my office to certain unhappy prisoners now secured within this castle."

"Thou art a bold friar," said the warder, "to come hither, where, saving our own drunken confessor,
a cock of thy feather hath not crowed these twenty years."

"Yet I pray thee, do mine errand to the lord of the castle," answered the pretended friar;
"trust me it will find good acceptance with him, and the cock shall crow, that the whole castle
shall hear him."

"Gramercy," said the warder; "but if I come to shame for leaving my post upon thine errand,
I will try whether a friar's grey gown be proof against a grey-goose shaft."

With this threat he left his turret, and carried to the hall of the castle his unwonted intelligence,
that a holy friar stood before the gate and demanded instant admission. With no small wonder
he received his master's commands to admit the holy man immediately; and, having previously
manned the entrance to guard against surprise, he obeyed, without further scruple, the commands
which he had received. The harebrained self-conceit which had emboldened Wamba to undertake
this dangerous office, was scarce sufficient to support him when he found himself in the presence
of a man so dreadful, and so much dreaded, as Reginald Front-de-Boeuf, and he brought out his
"pax vobiscum", to which he, in a good measure, trusted for supporting his character, with
more anxiety and hesitation than had hitherto accompanied it. But Front-de-Boeuf was accustomed
to see men of all ranks tremble in his presence, so that the timidity of the supposed father
did not give him any cause of suspicion.

"Who and whence art thou, priest?" said he.

"'Pax vobiscum'," reiterated the Jester, "I am a poor servant of St Francis, who, travelling
through this wilderness, have fallen among thieves, (as Scripture hath it,) 'quidam viator
incidit in latrones', which thieves have sent me unto this castle in order to do my ghostly
office on two persons condemned by your honourable justice."

"Ay, right," answered Front-de-Boeuf; "and canst thou tell me, holy father, the number of those
banditti?"

"Gallant sir," answered the Jester, "'nomen illis legio', their name is legion."

"Tell me in plain terms what numbers there are, or, priest, thy cloak and cord will ill protect
thee."

"Alas!" said the supposed friar, "'cor meum eructavit', that is to say, I was like to burst
with fear! but I conceive they may be--what of yeomen--what of commons, at least five hundred men."

"What!" said the Templar, who came into the hall that moment, "muster the wasps so thick here?
it is time to stifle such a mischievous brood." Then taking Front-de-Boeuf aside "Knowest thou
the priest?"

"He is a stranger from a distant convent," said Front-de-Boeuf; "I know him not."

"Then trust him not with thy purpose in words," answered the Templar. "Let him carry a written
order to De Bracy's company of Free Companions, to repair instantly to their master's aid.
In the meantime, and that the shaveling may suspect nothing, permit him to go freely about
his task of preparing these Saxon hogs for the slaughter-house."

"It shall be so," said Front-de-Boeuf. And he forthwith appointed a domestic to conduct Wamba
to the apartment where Cedric and Athelstane were confined.

The impatience of Cedric had been rather enhanced than diminished by his confinement. He walked
from one end of the hall to the other, with the attitude of one who advances to charge an enemy,
or to storm the breach of a beleaguered place, sometimes ejaculating to himself, sometimes
addressing Athelstane, who stoutly and stoically awaited the issue of the adventure, digesting,
in the meantime, with great composure, the liberal meal which he had made at noon, and not
greatly interesting himself about the duration of his captivity, which he concluded, would,
like all earthly evils, find an end in Heaven's good time.

"'Pax vobiscum'," said the Jester, entering the apartment; "the blessing of St Dunstan, St
Dennis, St Duthoc, and all other saints whatsoever, be upon ye and about ye."

"Enter freely," answered Cedric to the supposed friar; "with what intent art thou come hither?"

"To bid you prepare yourselves for death," answered the Jester.

"It is impossible!" replied Cedric, starting. "Fearless and wicked as they are, they dare not
attempt such open and gratuitous cruelty!"

"Alas!" said the Jester, "to restrain them by their sense of humanity, is the same as to stop
a runaway horse with a bridle of silk thread. Bethink thee, therefore, noble Cedric, and you
also, gallant Athelstane, what crimes you have committed in the flesh; for this very day will
ye be called to answer at a higher tribunal."

"Hearest thou this, Athelstane?" said Cedric; "we must rouse up our hearts to this last action,
since better it is we should die like men, than live like slaves."

"I am ready," answered Athelstane, "to stand the worst of their malice, and shall walk to my
death with as much composure as ever I did to my dinner."

"Let us then unto our holy gear, father," said Cedric.

"Wait yet a moment, good uncle," said the Jester, in his natural tone; "better look long before
you leap in the dark."

"By my faith," said Cedric, "I should know that voice!"

"It is that of your trusty slave and jester," answered Wamba, throwing back his cowl. "Had
you taken a fool's advice formerly, you would not have been here at all. Take a fool's advice
now, and you will not be here long."

"How mean'st thou, knave?" answered the Saxon.

"Even thus," replied Wamba; "take thou this frock and cord, which are all the orders I ever
had, and march quietly out of the castle, leaving me your cloak and girdle to take the long
leap in thy stead."

"Leave thee in my stead!" said Cedric, astonished at the proposal; "why, they would hang thee,
my poor knave."

"E'en let them do as they are permitted," said Wamba; "I trust--no disparagement to your birth--that
the son of Witless may hang in a chain with as much gravity as the chain hung upon his ancestor
the alderman."

"Well, Wamba," answered Cedric, "for one thing will I grant thy request. And that is, if thou
wilt make the exchange of garments with Lord Athelstane instead of me."

"No, by St Dunstan," answered Wamba; "there were little reason in that. Good right there is,
that the son of Witless should suffer to save the son of Hereward; but little wisdom there
were in his dying for the benefit of one whose fathers were strangers to his."

"Villain," said Cedric, "the fathers of Athelstane were monarchs of England!"

"They might be whomsoever they pleased," replied Wamba; "but my neck stands too straight upon
my shoulders to have it twisted for their sake. Wherefore, good my master, either take my proffer
yourself, or suffer me to leave this dungeon as free as I entered."

"Let the old tree wither," continued Cedric, "so the stately hope of the forest be preserved.
Save the noble Athelstane, my trusty Wamba! it is the duty of each who has Saxon blood in his
veins. Thou and I will abide together the utmost rage of our injurious oppressors, while he,
free and safe, shall arouse the awakened spirits of our countrymen to avenge us."

"Not so, father Cedric," said Athelstane, grasping his hand,--for, when roused to think or
act, his deeds and sentiments were not unbecoming his high race--"Not so," he continued; "I
would rather remain in this hall a week without food save the prisoner's stinted loaf, or drink
save the prisoner's measure of water, than embrace the opportunity to escape which the slave's
untaught kindness has purveyed for his master."

"You are called wise men, sirs," said the Jester, "and I a crazed fool; but, uncle Cedric,
and cousin Athelstane, the fool shall decide this controversy for ye, and save ye the trouble
of straining courtesies any farther. I am like John-a-Duck's mare, that will let no man mount
her but John-a-Duck. I came to save my master, and if he will not consent--basta--I can but
go away home again. Kind service cannot be chucked from hand to hand like a shuttlecock or
stool-ball. I'll hang for no man but my own born master."

"Go, then, noble Cedric," said Athelstane, "neglect not this opportunity. Your presence without
may encourage friends to our rescue--your remaining here would ruin us all."

"And is there any prospect, then, of rescue from without?" said Cedric, looking to the Jester.

"Prospect, indeed!" echoed Wamba; "let me tell you, when you fill my cloak, you are wrapped
in a general's cassock. Diplomas in colorful charities
titles bull reminded that Gallardo had fought for free for the poor. Countless portraits of right, standing,
sitting, lying or the layer going to kill you, testified to the care with which the newspapers
reproduced the gestures and various attitudes of the great man. Over the door stood a portrait of
Carmen fantastic blanket white, which further brought out the blackness of his eyes, and with
a stroke of carnations on the Dark hair.


The last word came out with a sort of double expression, betwixt jest and earnest. The tears
stood in Cedric's eyes.

"Thy memory shall be preserved," he said, "while fidelity and affection have honour upon earth!
But that I trust I shall find the means of saving Rowena, and thee, Athelstane, and thee, also,
my poor Wamba, thou shouldst not overbear me in this matter."

The exchange of dress was now accomplished, when a sudden doubt struck Cedric.

"I know no language," he said, "but my own, and a few words of their mincing Norman. How shall
I bear myself like a reverend brother?"

"The spell lies in two words," replied Wamba--"'Pax vobiscum' will answer all queries. If you
go or come, eat or drink, bless or ban, 'Pax vobiscum' carries you through it all. It is as
useful to a friar as a broomstick to a witch, or a wand to a conjurer. Speak it but thus, in
a deep grave tone,--'Pax vobiscum!'--it is irresistible--Watch and ward, knight and squire,
foot and horse, it acts as a charm upon them all. I think, if they bring me out to be hanged
to-morrow, as is much to be doubted they may, I will try its weight upon the finisher of the
sentence."

"If such prove the case," said the master, "my religious orders are soon taken--'Pax vobiscum'.
I trust I shall remember the pass-word.--Noble Athelstane, farewell; and farewell, my poor
boy, whose heart might make amends for a weaker head--I will save you, or return and die with
you. The royal blood of our Saxon kings shall not be spilt while mine beats in my veins; nor
shall one hair fall from the head of the kind knave who risked himself for his master, if Cedric's
peril can prevent it.--Farewell."

"Farewell, noble Cedric," said Athelstane; "remember it is the true part of a friar to accept
refreshment, if you are offered any."

"Farewell, uncle," added Wamba; "and remember 'Pax vobiscum'."

Thus exhorted, Cedric sallied forth upon his expedition; and it was not long ere he had occasion
to try the force of that spell which his Jester had recommended as omnipotent. In a low-arched
and dusky passage, by which he endeavoured to work his way to the hall of the castle, he was
interrupted by a female form.

"'Pax vobiscum!'" said the pseudo friar, and was endeavouring to hurry past, when a soft voice
replied, "'Et vobis--quaso, domine reverendissime, pro misericordia vestra'."

"I am somewhat deaf," replied Cedric, in good Saxon, and at the same time muttered to himself,
"A curse on the fool and his 'Pax vobiscum!' I have lost my javelin at the first cast."

It was, however, no unusual thing for a priest of those days to be deaf of his Latin ear, and
this the person who now addressed Cedric knew full well.

"I pray you of dear love, reverend father," she replied in his own language, "that you will
deign to visit with your ghostly comfort a wounded prisoner of this castle, and have such compassion
upon him and us as thy holy office teaches--Never shall good deed so highly advantage thy convent."

"Daughter," answered Cedric, much embarrassed, "my time in this castle will not permit me to
exercise the duties of mine office--I must presently forth--there is life and death upon my speed."

"Yet, father, let me entreat you by the vow you have taken on you," replied the suppliant,
"not to leave the oppressed and endangered without counsel or succour."

"May the fiend fly away with me, and leave me in Ifrin with the souls of Odin and of Thor!"
answered Cedric impatiently, and would probably have proceeded in the same tone of total departure
from his spiritual character, when the colloquy was interrupted by the harsh voice of Urfried,
the old crone of the turret.

"How, minion," said she to the female speaker, "is this the manner in which you requite the
kindness which permitted thee to leave thy prison-cell yonder?--Puttest thou the reverend man
to use ungracious language to free himself from the importunities of a Jewess?"

"A Jewess!" said Cedric, availing himself of the information to get clear of their interruption,--"Let
me pass, woman! stop me not at your peril. I am fresh from my holy office, and would avoid
pollution."

"Come this way, father," said the old hag, "thou art a stranger in this castle, and canst not
leave it without a guide. Come hither, for I would speak with thee.--And you, daughter of an
accursed race, go to the sick man's chamber, and tend him until my return; and woe betide you
if you again quit it without my permission!"

Rebecca retreated. Her importunities had prevailed upon Urfried to suffer her to quit the turret,
and Urfried had employed her services where she herself would most gladly have paid them, by
the bedside of the wounded Ivanhoe. With an understanding awake to their dangerous situation,
and prompt to avail herself of each means of safety which occurred, Rebecca had hoped something
from the presence of a man of religion, who, she learned from Urfried, had penetrated into
this godless castle. She watched the return of the supposed ecclesiastic, with the purpose
of addressing him, and interesting him in favour of the prisoners; with what imperfect success
the reader has been just acquainted.

CHAPTER XXVII

     Fond wretch! and what canst thou relate,
     But deeds of sorrow, shame, and sin?
     Thy deeds are proved--thou know'st thy fate;
     But come, thy tale--begin--begin.
     * * * * *
     But I have griefs of other kind,
     Troubles and sorrows more severe;
     Give me to ease my tortured mind,
     Lend to my woes a patient ear;
     And let me, if I may not find
     A friend to help--find one to hear.
     --Crabbe's Hall of Justice

When Urfried had with clamours and menaces driven Rebecca back to the apartment from which
she had sallied, she proceeded to conduct the unwilling Cedric into a small apartment, the
door of which she heedfully secured. Then fetching from a cupboard a stoup of wine and two
flagons, she placed them on the table, and said in a tone rather asserting a fact than asking
a question, "Thou art Saxon, father--Deny it not," she continued, observing that Cedric hastened
not to reply; "the sounds of my native language are sweet to mine ears, though seldom heard
save from the tongues of the wretched and degraded serfs on whom the proud Normans impose the
meanest drudgery of this dwelling. Thou art a Saxon, father--a Saxon, and, save as thou art
a servant of God, a freeman.--Thine accents are sweet in mine ear."

"Do not Saxon priests visit this castle, then?" replied Cedric; "it were, methinks, their duty
to comfort the outcast and oppressed children of the soil."

"They come not--or if they come, they better love to revel at the boards of their conquerors,"
answered Urfried, "than to hear the groans of their countrymen--so, at least, report speaks
of them--of myself I can say little. This castle, for ten years, has opened to no priest save
the debauched Norman chaplain who partook the nightly revels of Front-de-Boeuf, and he has
been long gone to render an account of his stewardship.--But thou art a Saxon--a Saxon priest,
and I have one question to ask of thee."

"I am a Saxon," answered Cedric, "but unworthy, surely, of the name of priest. Let me begone
on my way--I swear I will return, or send one of our fathers more worthy to hear your confession." Everyone thought the same, terrible casting glances at enthusiasts: "But when will leave
these guys 'lateral'? Cursed be their weapon !...»

At last, the matador was fixed on them, "Pueen ustés retire." And the crew came pushing, freedom
for school while the teacher kept hearing the praise of 'Smart',
forgetting Doodle, waiting silently when undressing.

In the days of rest, master, free from the excitement of danger and
glory, his memory back to Seville.

From time to time came for him one of those little letters scented short congratulating his triumphs.
Oh, if I were with him to Dona Sol! ...

In this continuous run of an audience to another, adored by fans, who were eager to make pleasant life
in the population, women knew and went to sprees organized in his
honor.

In this holiday season always left with the thought troubled by the wine and a fierce sadness he was intractable.
I felt cruel desire to mistreat females.

It was an irresistible impulse revenge on the aggressiveness and the whims of the other in persons
of the same sex.

There were times that he must trust his sadness at the National with
irresistible momentum confession of all those who carry excess weight
thinking.

In addition, the flagman inspired him away from Sevilla, a greater affection, tenderness reflected.
Sebastian knew his love affair with Dona Sol, I had seen, even from afar, and she had laughed
often heard him relate the originality of the flagman.

This welcomed with a wave of austerity the confidences of the teacher.

- What you should do, John, is orviarte of this lady.

Mia that peace is worth family that too for er world that we are exposed to unnecessary pa
gorver home forever. Mia Carmen knows more than you think. He now knows too. I myself have
sortao indiretas of yours with the niece of the Marquis ... The pobresita! It Pecao that make
her suffer! ... She has a temper, and if fortune I will give you an upset.

But Gallardo, away from family, his thoughts dominated by the memory of Dona Sol seemed not to
understand the dangers of speaking to him the National, and shrugged his shoulders before
sentimental scruples. Needed to act out their memories to share with the friend of his past
happiness, a shameless lover satisfied you want to be admired in
his happiness.

- Is that you do not know what that woman! You, Sebastian,
you're so unhappy that conoses is Guen. You see women together Seviya
toas? For na. Do you see those people toos where we have this? Na
either. There is but Dona Zol. When conose a lady like that, pa quean
not want more ... Conosieses If like me, porridge! The women of our
arm smell the meat clean, white clothes. But this, Sebastian, this!
... Imagine roses together toas the gardens of Alcazar ... No, it's
somethin 'better, is jasmine, madreserva, perfume enreaeras as they
would in the garden of Paradise, and these odors come from AEntry
Bueno as if not put them as if they were of his own blood. And aemás
is not a panoli of that view is now seen once too.

"In lawless hands, indeed, but not in those of love!" answered the hag; "love will sooner visit
the regions of eternal doom, than those unhallowed vaults.--No, with that at least I cannot
reproach myself--hatred to Front-de-Boeuf and his race governed my soul most deeply, even in
the hour of his guilty endearments."

"You hated him, and yet you lived," replied Cedric; "wretch! was there no poniard--no knife--no
bodkin!--Well was it for thee, since thou didst prize such an existence, that the secrets of
a Norman castle are like those of the grave. For had I but dreamed of the daughter of Torquil
living in foul communion with the murderer of her father, the sword of a true Saxon had found
thee out even in the arms of thy paramour!"

"Wouldst thou indeed have done this justice to the name of Torquil?" said Ulrica, for we may
now lay aside her assumed name of Urfried; "thou art then the true Saxon report speaks thee!
for even within these accursed walls, where, as thou well sayest, guilt shrouds itself in inscrutable
mystery, even there has the name of Cedric been sounded--and I, wretched and degraded, have
rejoiced to think that there yet breathed an avenger of our unhappy nation.--I also have had
my hours of vengeance--I have fomented the quarrels of our foes, and heated drunken revelry
into murderous broil--I have seen their blood flow--I have heard their dying groans!--Look
on me, Cedric--are there not still left on this foul and faded face some traces of the features
of Torquil?"

"Ask me not of them, Ulrica," replied Cedric, in a tone of grief mixed with abhorrence; "these
traces form such a resemblance as arises from the graves of the dead, when a fiend has animated
the lifeless corpse."

"Be it so," answered Ulrica; "yet wore these fiendish features the mask of a spirit of light
when they were able to set at variance the elder Front-de-Boeuf and his son Reginald! The darkness
of hell should hide what followed, but revenge must lift the veil, and darkly intimate what
it would raise the dead to speak aloud. Long had the smouldering fire of discord glowed between
the tyrant father and his savage son--long had I nursed, in secret, the unnatural hatred--it
blazed forth in an hour of drunken wassail, and at his own board fell my oppressor by the hand
of his own son--such are the secrets these vaults conceal!--Rend asunder, ye accursed arches,"
she added, looking up towards the roof, "and bury in your fall all who are conscious of the
hideous mystery!"

"And thou, creature of guilt and misery," said Cedric, "what became thy lot on the death of
thy ravisher?"

"Guess it, but ask it not.--Here--here I dwelt, till age, premature age, has stamped its ghastly
features on my countenance--scorned and insulted where I was once obeyed, and compelled to
bound the revenge which had once such ample scope, to the efforts of petty malice of a discontented
menial, or the vain or unheeded curses of an impotent hag--condemned to hear from my lonely
turret the sounds of revelry in which I once partook, or the shrieks and groans of new victims
of oppression."

"Ulrica," said Cedric, "with a heart which still, I fear, regrets the lost reward of thy crimes,
as much as the deeds by which thou didst acquire that meed, how didst thou dare to address
thee to one who wears this robe? Consider, unhappy woman, what could the sainted Edward himself
do for thee, were he here in bodily presence? Go down to Sevilla, get into the square, away from the mountains
and deserts, where it was easy to defend, without the help of her two companions, jackfruit and
the rifle, killing him and all for bulls! ... Of the two, was the brave man.

Further thought on his farm, which was at the mercy of Plumitas in country life, which only was
possible that keeping good relations with extraordinary character.

For it should be the bull.

He smiled at the robber, who was watching him with placid face, took
off his hat, and shouted addressing the crowd stirred, but with eyes
fixed on Plumitas.

- Take ustés!

He threw his cap to lying, and hands rushed against each other, struggling
to catch the sacred deposit.

Gallardo made a sign to the National to bring a timely cape the bull
to him.

He extended his crutch the sword, the beast rushed with loud snort,
passing under the cloth red.

"Olé!" Roared the crowd, already familiar with his old idol and willing
to find admirable everything did.

He continued to pass the bull, amidst the acclamations of the people who was a few steps seeing
him and gave him advice about.

Care, Gallardo! The bull was very large. No should come between him and the barrier. Convention
that are open to departure.

Other, more enthusiastic, excited his boldness with bold advice.

- Suértale one of yours ... Zas! Stock, and I'll get in borsiyo er.

Was too large and suspicious of the animal for which it could put
in your pocket. Excited the neighborhood of the dead horse, had a
tendency to return to it, as if drunk the stench of his belly.

In
one of the trends, the bull, tired of the crutch, stood on its feet.
Gallardo had behind him the dead horse. It was a bad situation, but
had worse emerged victorious.

Wanted to take the position of the
beast. The audience was aroused by it. Among men they stood up in
the contrabarrera, his body thrown forward to keep a detail the decisive
moment, acknowledged that many fans began to depart popular of now
returned to him and applaud him, moved by his show of consideration
for the "people."

- Benefit, Gen boy! ... Vamo to see the truth!
... Drop indeed!

"Ulrica," said Cedric, softened by this appeal, "hast thou borne up and endured to live through
so much guilt and so much misery, and wilt thou now yield to despair when thine eyes are opened
to thy crimes, and when repentance were thy fitter occupation?"

"Cedric," answered Ulrica, "thou little knowest the human heart. To act as I have acted, to
think as I have thought, requires the maddening love of pleasure, mingled with the keen appetite
of revenge, the proud consciousness of power; droughts too intoxicating for the human heart
to bear, and yet retain the power to prevent. Their force has long passed away--Age has no
pleasures, wrinkles have no influence, revenge itself dies away in impotent curses. Then comes
remorse, with all its vipers, mixed with vain regrets for the past, and despair for the future!--Then,
when all other strong impulses have ceased, we become like the fiends in hell, who may feel
remorse, but never repentance.--But thy words have awakened a new soul within me--Well hast
thou said, all is possible for those who dare to die!--Thou hast shown me the means of revenge,
and be assured I will embrace them. It has hitherto shared this wasted bosom with other and
with rival passions--henceforward it shall possess me wholly, and thou thyself shalt say, that,
whatever was the life of Ulrica, her death well became the daughter of the noble Torquil. There
is a force without beleaguering this accursed castle--hasten to lead them to the attack, and
when thou shalt see a red flag wave from the turret on the eastern angle of the donjon, press
the Normans hard--they will then have enough to do within, and you may win the wall in spite
both of bow and mangonel.--Begone, I pray thee--follow thine own fate, and leave me to mine."

Cedric would have enquired farther into the purpose which she thus darkly announced, but the
stern voice of Front-de-Boeuf was heard, exclaiming, "Where tarries this loitering priest?
By the scallop-shell of Compostella, I will make a martyr of him, if he loiters here to hatch
treason among my domestics!"

"What a true prophet," said Ulrica, "is an evil conscience! But heed him not--out and to thy
people--Cry your Saxon onslaught, and let them sing their war-song of Rollo, if they will;
vengeance shall bear a burden to it."

As she thus spoke, she vanished through a private door, and Reginald Front-de-Boeuf entered
the apartment. Cedric, with some difficulty, compelled himself to make obeisance to the haughty
Baron, who returned his courtesy with a slight inclination of the head.

"Thy penitents, father, have made a long shrift--it is the better for them, since it is the
last they shall ever make. Hast thou prepared them for death?"

"I found them," said Cedric, in such French as he could command, "expecting the worst, from
the moment they knew into whose power they had fallen."

"How now, Sir Friar," replied Front-de-Boeuf, "thy speech, methinks, smacks of a Saxon tongue?"

"I was bred in the convent of St Withold of Burton," answered Cedric.

"Ay?" said the Baron; "it had been better for thee to have been a Norman, and better for my
purpose too; but need has no choice of messengers. That St Withold's of Burton is an owlet's
nest worth the harrying. The day will soon come that the frock shall protect the Saxon as little
as the mail-coat."

"God's will be done," said Cedric, in a voice tremulous with passion, which Front-de-Boeuf
imputed to fear.

"I see," said he, "thou dreamest already that our men-at-arms are in thy refectory and thy
ale-vaults. But do me one cast of thy holy office, and, come what list of others, thou shalt
sleep as safe in thy cell as a snail within his shell of proof."

"Speak your commands," said Cedric, with suppressed emotion.

"Follow me through this passage, then, that I may dismiss thee by the postern."

And as he strode on his way before the supposed friar, Front-de-Boeuf thus schooled him in
the part which he desired he should act.

"Thou seest, Sir Friar, yon herd of Saxon swine, who have dared to environ this castle of Torquilstone--Tell
them whatever thou hast a mind of the weakness of this fortalice, or aught else that can detain
them before it for twenty-four hours. Meantime bear thou this scroll--But soft--canst read,
Sir Priest?"

"Not a jot I," answered Cedric, "save on my breviary; and then I know the characters, because
I have the holy service by heart, praised be Our Lady and St Withold!"

"The fitter messenger for my purpose.--Carry thou this scroll to the castle of Philip de Malvoisin;
say it cometh from me, and is written by the Templar Brian de Bois-Guilbert, and that I pray
him to send it to York with all the speed man and horse can make. Meanwhile, tell him to doubt
nothing, he shall find us whole and sound behind our battlement--Shame on it, that we should
be compelled to hide thus by a pack of runagates, who are wont to fly even at the flash of
our pennons and the tramp of our horses! I say to thee, priest, contrive some cast of thine
art to keep the knaves where they are, until our friends bring up their lances. My vengeance
is awake, and she is a falcon that slumbers not till she has been gorged."

"By my patron saint," said Cedric, with deeper energy than became his character, "and by every
saint who has lived and died in England, your commands shall be obeyed! Not a Saxon shall stir
from before these walls, if I have art and influence to detain them there."

"Ha!" said Front-de-Boeuf, "thou changest thy tone, Sir Priest, and speakest brief and bold,
as if thy heart were in the slaughter of the Saxon herd; and yet thou art thyself of kindred
to the swine?"

Cedric was no ready practiser of the art of dissimulation, and would at this moment have been
much the better of a hint from Wamba's more fertile brain. But necessity, according to the
ancient proverb, sharpens invention, and he muttered something under his cowl concerning the
men in question being excommunicated outlaws both to church and to kingdom.

"'Despardieux'," answered Front-de-Boeuf, "thou hast spoken the very truth--I forgot that the
knaves can strip a fat abbot, as well as if they had been born south of yonder salt channel. Digging the soil bull with its
front legs, down the forehead to undertake the bold figurine was threatening with the spear. A simple
gored, and disappeared. But at the same moment, a ferocious roar distracted attention from
some red bull and passed before his eyes like a flame of fire.

It was Gallardo, who had thrown down the horse, leaving the pole to
catch the coat bearing on the pommel of the saddle.

- Uh!

... Sign!

"I am indeed bound to vengeance," murmured Cedric; "Saint Withold knows my heart."

Front-de-Boeuf, in the meanwhile, led the way to a postern, where, passing the moat on a single
plank, they reached a small barbican, or exterior defence, which communicated with the open
field by a well-fortified sallyport.

"Begone, then; and if thou wilt do mine errand, and if thou return hither when it is done,
thou shalt see Saxon flesh cheap as ever was hog's in the shambles of Sheffield. And, hark
thee, thou seemest to be a jolly confessor--come hither after the onslaught, and thou shalt
have as much Malvoisie as would drench thy whole convent."

"Assuredly we shall meet again," answered Cedric.

"Something in hand the whilst," continued the Norman; and, as they parted at the postern door,
he thrust into Cedric's reluctant hand a gold byzant, adding, "Remember, I will fly off both
cowl and skin, if thou failest in thy purpose."

"And full leave will I give thee to do both," answered Cedric, leaving the postern, and striding
forth over the free field with a joyful step, "if, when we meet next, I deserve not better
at thine hand."--Turning then back towards the castle, he threw the piece of gold towards the
donor, exclaiming at the same time, "False Norman, thy money perish with thee!"

