Such an experience of Eternity, the attainment of that intuitive awareness, that meek and simple
self-mergence, which the mystics call sometimes, according to its degree and special circumstances,
the Quiet, the Desert of God, the Divine Dark, represents the utmost that human consciousness
can do of itself towards the achievement of union with Reality. To some it brings joy and peace,
to others fear: to all a paradoxical sense of the lowliness and greatness of the soul, which
now at last can measure itself by the august standards of the Infinite. Though the trained
and diligent will of the contemplative can, if control of the attention be really established,
recapture this state of awareness, retreat into the Quiet again and again, yet it is of necessity
a fleeting experience; for man is immersed in duration, subject to it. Its demands upon his
attention can only cease with the cessation of physical life--perhaps not then. Perpetual absorption
in the Transcendent is a human impossibility, and the effort to achieve it is both unsocial
and silly. But this experience, this "ascent to the Nought," changes for ever the proportions
of the life that once has known it; gives to it depth and height, and prepares the way for
those further experiences, that great transfiguration of existence which comes when the personal
activity of the finite will gives place to the great and compelling action of another Power.

CHAPTER IX

THE THIRD FORM OF CONTEMPLATION

The hard separation which some mystical writers insist upon making between "natural" and "supernatural"
contemplation, has been on the whole productive of confusion rather than clearness: for the
word "supernatural" has many unfortunate associations for the mind of the plain man. It at
once suggests to him visions and ecstasies, superstitious beliefs, ghosts, and other disagreeable
interferences with the order which he calls "natural"; and inclines him to his old attitude
of suspicion in respect of all mystical things. But some word we must have, to indicate the
real cleavage which exists between the second and third stages in the development of the contemplative
consciousness: the real change which, if you would go further on these interior paths, must
now take place in the manner of your apprehension of Reality. Hitherto, all that you have attained
has been--or at least has seemed to you--the direct result of your own hard work. A difficult
self-discipline, the slowly achieved control of your vagrant thoughts and desires, the steady
daily practice of recollection, a diligent pushing out of your consciousness from the superficial
to the fundamental, an unselfish loving attention; all this has been rewarded by the gradual
broadening and deepening of your perceptions, by an initiation into the movements of a larger
life, You have been a knocker, a seeker, an asker: have beat upon the Cloud of Unknowing "with
a sharp dart of longing love." A perpetual effort of the will has characterised your inner
development. Your contemplation, in fact, as the specialists would say, has been "active,"
not "infused."

But now, having achieved an awareness--obscure and indescribable indeed, yet actual--of the
enfolding presence of Reality, under those two forms which the theologians call the "immanence"
and the "transcendence" of the Divine, a change is to take place in the relation between your
finite human spirit and the Infinite Life in which at last it knows itself to dwell. All that
will now come to you--and much perhaps will come--will happen as it seems without effort on
your own part: though really it will be the direct result of that long stress and discipline
which has gone before, and has made it possible for you to feel the subtle contact of deeper
realities. It will depend also on the steady continuance--often perhaps through long periods
of darkness and boredom--of that poise to which you have been trained: the stretching-out of
the loving and surrendered will into the dimness and silence, the continued trustful habitation
of the soul in the atmosphere of the Essential World. You are like a traveller arrived in a
new country. The journey has been a long one; and the hardships and obstacles involved in it,
the effort, the perpetual conscious pressing forward, have at last come to seem the chief features
of your inner life. Now, with their cessation, you feel curiously lost; as if the chief object
of your existence had been taken away. No need to push on any further: yet, though there is
no more that you can do of yourself, there is much that may and must be done to you. The place
that you have come to seems strange and bewildering, for it lies far beyond the horizons of
human thought. She
may well have learned the most authentic & accurate recipe for cooking these empanadas. I bet she did
not if she does not live in my province. To those who have not eaten such empanadas, the recipe
will seem strange consisting of anchovies or sardines stuffed with picadillo tomatoes & onions.
The pies are made with chocolate. That's the truth & they are good
although it seems odd.

This art of baking & pastry making is not new & it's growing within Cordoba. According to a reliable
written source; little has been reprinted and released about the true story of Lozana Andaluza.
This art flourished as early as the sixteenth century. The famous Cordoba woman made almost
all of this with remarkable perfection. The author suggests that you run without stopping much as we do
in Cordoba tradition. Mothers & daughters have passed down this knowledge to date by means of tradition.
So any native of Cordoba may boast of the day as Lozana did more than three centuries ago. Speaking
frankly with regard to proper cooking I wish to boast about the bakery. In the province of Cordoba
this art is more liberal and less likely to be produced by mercenary hands. It is hardly noble
but swanky and lazy.

His white right hand made the adobo seasoning & the sausage dressing. A woman would often come
home in the days of slaughter or in the preceeding night & make a thousand sweets. Or she
would arrive during harvest just before easter to make the syrup & porridge wine, pancakes, fritters,
& Piñonate gajorros. An adept woman would make three or four for each plate. The cook would take
the lead in everything, but very rarely the Mrs. relies on this woman completely and removes all responsibility
from herself. This woman is nothing but a helper, an alter ego. The woman who is truly in charge
is the housekeeper.

Her job is to give direction & share the responsibility of the divided
empire when it so happens that she is an inspired genious with vocation
& mission unique to such matters. This was the case in my home with a
woman named Juana la Larga. She has passed away already, and it is
certain that she has left an heiress daughter of arcane procedures.
But genious is not inherited, & the daughter of Juana la Larga is recoginzed
as competent by those who have met her.

In the kitchen with the daily meals it is a very different proceeding. A careful woman who is at home will
have what is wise, go to the pantry, give orders, but the actual cooking is left entirely to
the care of the cook.
 "None," says Ruysbroeck, putting this same experience,
this meek outstreaming of the bewildered spirit, into other language, "is sure of Eternal Life,
unless he has died with his own attributes wholly into God."

It is unlikely that agreeable emotions will accompany this utter self-surrender; for everything
will now seem to be taken from you, nothing given in exchange. But if you are able to make
it, a mighty transformation will result. From the transitional plane of darkness, you will
be reborn into another "world," another stage of realisation: and find yourself, literally,
to be other than you were before. Ascetic writers tell us that the essence of the change now
effected consists in the fact that "God's action takes the place of man's activity"--that the
surrendered self "does not act, but receives." By this they mean to describe, as well as our
concrete language will permit, the new and vivid consciousness which now invades the contemplative;
the sense which he has of being as it were helpless in the grasp of another Power, so utterly
part of him, so completely different from him--so rich and various, so transfused with life
and feeling, so urgent and so all-transcending--that he can only think of it as God. It is
for this that the dimness and steadily increasing passivity of the stage of Quiet has been
preparing him; and it is out of this willing quietude and ever-deepening obscurity that the
new experiences come.

This sense, this conviction, which may be translated by the imagination into many different
forms, is the substance of the greatest experiences and highest joys of the mystical saints.
The intensity with which it is realised will depend upon the ardour, purity, and humility of
the experiencing soul: but even those who feel it faintly are convinced by it for evermore.
In some great and generous spirits, able to endure the terrific onslaught of Reality, it may
even reach a vividness by which all other things are obliterated; and the self, utterly helpless
under the inundations of this transcendent life-force, passes into that simple state of consciousness
which is called Ecstasy.

But you are not to be frightened by these special manifestations; or to suppose that here the
road is barred against you. Though these great spirits have as it were a genius for Reality,
a susceptibility to supernal impressions, so far beyond your own small talent that there seems
no link between you: yet you have, since you are human, a capacity for the Infinite too. With
less intensity, less splendour, but with a certitude which no arguments will ever shake, this
sense of the Living Fact, and of its mysterious contacts with and invasions of the human spirit,
may assuredly be realised by you. This realisation--sometimes felt under the symbols of personality,
sometimes under those of an impersonal but life-giving Force, Light, Energy, or Heat--is the
ruling character of the third phase of contemplation; and the reward of that meek passivity,
that "busy idleness" as the mystics sometimes call it, which you have been striving to attain.
Sooner or later, if you are patient, it will come to you through the darkness: a mysterious
contact, a clear certitude of intercourse and of possession--perhaps so gradual in its approach
that the break, the change from the ever-deepening stillness and peace of the second phase,
is hardly felt by you; perhaps, if your nature be ardent and unstable, with a sudden shattering
violence, in a "storm of love."

In either case, the advent of this experience is incalculable, and completely outside your
own control. So far, to use St. Teresa's well-known image, you have been watering the garden
of your spirit by hand; a poor and laborious method, yet one in which there is a definite relation
between effort and result. But now the watering-can is taken from you, and you must depend
upon the rain: more generous, more fruitful, than anything which your own efforts could manage,
but, in its incalculable visitations, utterly beyond your control. Here all one can say is
this: that if you acquiesce in the heroic demands which the spiritual life now makes upon you,
if you let yourself go, eradicate the last traces of self-interest even of the most spiritual
kind--then, you have established conditions under which the forces of the spiritual world can
work on you, heightening your susceptibilities, deepening and purifying your attention, so
that you are able to taste and feel more and more of the inexhaustible riches of Reality.

Thus dying to your own will, waiting for what is given, infused, you will presently find that
a change in your apprehension has indeed taken place: and that those who said self-loss was
the only way to realisation taught no pious fiction but the truth. The highest contemplative
experience to which you have yet attained has seemed above all else a still awareness. The
cessation of your own striving, a resting upon and within the Absolute World-- these were its
main characteristics for your consciousness. But now, this Ocean of Being is no longer felt
by you as an emptiness, a solitude without bourne. Suddenly you know it to be instinct with
a movement and life too great for you to apprehend. You are thrilled by a mighty energy, uncontrolled
by you, unsolicited by you: its higher vitality is poured into your soul. You enter upon an
experience for which all the terms of power, thought, motion, even of love, are inadequate:
yet which contains within itself the only complete expression of all these things. Your strength
is now literally made perfect in weakness: because of the completeness of your dependence,
a fresh life is infused into you, such as your old separate existence never knew. Moreover,
to that diffused and impersonal sense of the Infinite, in which you have dipped yourself, and
which swallows up and completes all the ideas your mind has ever built up with the help of
the categories of time and space, is now added the consciousness of a Living Fact which includes,
transcends, completes all that you mean by the categories of personality and of life. Those
ineffective, half-conscious attempts towards free action, clear apprehension, true union, which
we dignify by the names of will, thought, and love are now seen matched by an Absolute Will,
Thought, and Love; instantly recognised by the contemplating spirit as the highest reality
it yet has known, and evoking in it a passionate and a humble joy.

This unmistakable experience has been achieved by the mystics of every religion; and when we
read their statements, we know that all are speaking of the same thing. None who have had it
have ever been able to doubt its validity. It has always become for them the central fact,
by which all other realities must be tested and graduated. It has brought to them the deep
consciousness of sources of abundant life now made accessible to man; of the impact of a mighty
energy, gentle, passionate, self-giving, creative, which they can only call Absolute Love.
Sometimes they feel this strange life moving and stirring within them. Sometimes it seems to
pursue, entice, and besiege them. In every case, they are the passive objects upon which it
works. It is now another Power which seeks the separated spirit and demands it; which knocks
at the closed door of the narrow personality; which penetrates the contemplative consciousness
through and through, speaking, stirring, compelling it; which sometimes, by its secret irresistible
pressure, wins even the most recalcitrant in spite of themselves. The
verses in which Schiller praised his countrywomen, could a fortiori apply to mine. German is not
that described by the great poet is the mother of my province or my place

      Him in the kingdom that sends prudent;
    Restrain the child and the child instructed,
    Never for laborious hand, Whose
    ordered tino In rich
    flow increased reflows.

How is busy! How from the dawn of the barn is the winery, and cellar
to the pantry! But we must remember that when they make this
declaration, they are speaking from a plane of consciousness far above the ideas and images
of popular religion; and from a place which is beyond the judiciously adjusted horizon of philosophy.
They mean by this word, not a notion, however august; but an experienced Fact so vivid, that
against it the so-called facts of daily life look shadowy and insecure. They say that this
Fact is "immanent"; dwelling in, transfusing, and discoverable through every aspect of the
universe, every movement of the game of life--as you have found in the first stage of contemplation.
There you may hear its melody and discern its form. And further, that It is "transcendent";
in essence exceeding and including the sum of those glimpses and contacts which we obtain by
self-mergence in life, and in Its simplest manifestations above and beyond anything to which
reason can attain--"the Nameless Being, of Whom nought can be said." This you discovered to
be true in the second stage. But in addition to this, they say also, that this all-pervasive,
all-changing, and yet changeless One, Whose melody is heard in all movement, and within Whose
Being "the worlds are being told like beads," calls the human spirit to an immediate intercourse,
a unity, a fruition, a divine give-and-take, for which the contradictory symbols of feeding,
of touching, of marriage, of immersion, are all too poor; and which evokes in the fully conscious
soul a passionate and a humble love. I
have noticed that the maid has not swept away a cobweb in the corner. Since she can't seem to
follow my instructions I show her how. I also have to demonstrate how to dust everything. Then,
in the closet, we find clean and comfortable bed and table linen
from which comes the smell of lavender perfume. Suffice it to say that the thousand or so gardens look like a paradise, my friend.
If this were mythology, we might even say that he put his throne Pomona, and extended, without the
slightest exaggeration, to Palestine, with its throne in the chapels. Ceres worked in the fields
which extend between Baena and Valenzuela, and Bacchus in his Moriles created wine that surpassed
everything in Jerez.

The Cordoba looked down upon all of this, because it is common, and
does not bring in money, or treat spiritualism delicately. "How delicately Thou
teachest love tome!" cries St. John of the Cross; and here indeed we find all the ardours of
all earthly lovers justified by an imperishable Objective, which reveals Itself in all things
that we truly love, and beyond all these things both seeks us and compels us, "giving more
than we can take and asking more than we can pay."

