"Oh, she's cosmic, all right!" says Buck. "I never seen anything cosmicker. Look what she's
done already, and Sandy only begun! Just watch him! He'll cosmic this here game to a standstill.
He'll have Sour Dough there touching him for two-bits breakfast money--see if he don't."

"But eleven came only twice," says the conservative Cora.

"Sure! But did you notice Nos. 22 and 33?" says Buck. "You got to humour any good hunch to
a certain extent, cosmic or no cosmic."

"I see," says Cora with gleaming eyes; "and No. 33 is not only what drew our beautiful building
lot but it is also the precise number of my years on the earth plane."

Cousin Egbert overheard this and snorted like no gentleman had ought to, even in the lowest
gambling den.

"Thirty-three!" says he to me. "Did you hear the big cheat? Say! No gambling house on earth
would have the nerve to put her right age on a wheel! The chances is ruinous enough now without
running 'em up to forty-eight or so. I bet that's about what you'd find if you was to tooth her."

Sandy has now gone back, followed by the crowd, and wins another bet on No. 11. This is too
much for Cora's Standard Oil instincts. She never trusts Leonard with any money, but she goes
over into a corner, hikes the flag of her country up over one red stocking for a minute, and
comes back with a two-dollar bill, which she splits on 22 and 33; and when 33 wins she's mad
clean through because 22 didn't also win, and she's wasted a whole dollar, like throwing it
into the Atlantic Ocean.

"Too bad, Pettie!" says Leonard, who was crowded in by her. "But you mustn't expect to have
all the luck"--which is about the height of Leonard's mental reach.

"It was not luck; it was simple lack of faith," says Cora. "I put myself in tune with the Infinite
and make my claim upon the all-good--and then I waver. The loss of that dollar was a punishment
to me."

Now she stakes a dollar on No. 33 alone, and when it comes double-o she cries out that the
man had leaned his hand on the edge of the table while the ball was rolling and thereby mushed
up her cosmic vibrations, even if he didn't do something a good deal more crooked. Then she
switches to No. 22, and that wins.

She now gets suspicious of the chips and has 'em turned into real money, which she stuffs into
her consort's pockets for the time being, all but two dollars that go on Nos. 11 and 33. And
No. 22 comes up again. She nearly fainted and didn't recover in time to get anything down for
the next roll--and I'm darned if 11 don't show! She turns savagely on her husband at this.
The poor hulk only says:

"But, Pettie, you're playing the game--I ain't."

She replies bitterly:

"Oh, ain't that just like a man! I knew you were going to say that!"--and seemed to think she
had him well licked.

Then the single-o come. She says:

"Oh, dear! It seems that, even with the higher consciousness, one can't be always certain of
one's numbers at this dreadful game."

And while she was further reproaching her husband, taking time to do it good and keeping one
very damp dollar safe in her hand, what comes up but old 33 again!

It looked like hysterics then, especially when she noticed Buck Devine helping pile Sandy's
chips up in front of him till they looked like a great old English castle, with towers and
minarets, and so on, Sandy having played his hunch strong and steady. She waited for another
turn that come nothing important to any of 'em; then she drew Leonard out and made him take
her for a glass of lemonade out where Aggie Tuttle was being Rebekkah at the Well, because
they charged two bits for it at the bar and Aggie's was only a dime. The sale made forty cents
Aggie had took in on the evening.

Racing back to Ye Olde Tyme Gambling Denne, she gets another hard blow; for Sandy has not only
win another of his magic numbers but has bought up the bar for the evening, inviting all hands
to brim a cup at his expense, whenever they crave it--nobody's money good but his; so Cora
is not only out what she would of made by following his play but the ten cents cash she has
paid Aggie Tuttle. She was not a woman to be trifled with then. She took another lemonade because
it was free, and made Len take one that he didn't want. Then she draws three dollars from him
and covers the three numbers with reckless and noble sweeps of her powerful arms. The game
was on again.

Cousin Egbert by now was looking slightly disturbed, or outré, as the French put it, but tries
to conceal same under an air of sparkling gayety, laughing freely at every little thing in
a girlish or painful manner.

"Yes," says he coquettishly; "that Sandy scoundrel is taking it fast out of one pocket, but
he's putting it right back into the other. The wheel's loss is the bar's gain."

I looked over to size Sandy's chips and I could see four or five markers that go a hundred apiece.

"I admire your roguish manner that don't fool any one," I says; "but if we was to drink the
half of Sandy's winnings, even at your robber prices, we'd all be submerged to the periscope.
It looks to me," I goes on, "like the bazaar-robbing genius is not exclusively a male attribute
or tendency."

"How many of them knitted crawdabs you sold out there at your booths?" he demands. "Not enough
to buy a single Belgian a T-bone steak and fried potatoes."

"Is that so, indeed?" I says. "Excuse me a minute. Standing here in the blinding light of your
triumph, I forgot a little matter of detail such as our sex is always wasting its energies on."

So I call Sandy and Buck away from their Belgian atrocities and speak sharply to 'em.

"You boys ought to be ashamed of yourselves," I says--"winning all that money and then acting
like old Gaspard the Miser in the Chimes of Normandy! Can't you forget your natural avarice
and loosen up some?"

"I bought the bar, didn't I?" asks Sandy. "I can't do no more, can I?"

"You can," I says. "Out in that big room is about eighteen tired maids and matrons of Red Gap's
most exclusive inner circles yawning their heads off over goods, wares, and merchandise that
no one will look at while this sinful game is running. If you got a spark of manhood in you
go on out and trade a little with 'em, just to take the curse off your depredations in here."

"Why, sure!" says Sandy. He goes back to the layout and loads Buck's hat full of red and blue
chips at one and two dollars each. "Go buy the place clean," he says to Buck. "Do it good;
don't leave a single object of use or luxury. My instructions is sweeping, understand. And
if there's a harness booth there you order a solid gold collar for old Jerry, heavily incrusted
with jewels and his initials and mine surrounded by a wreath. Also, send out a pint of wine
for every one of these here maids and matrons. Meantime, I shall stick here and keep an eye
on my large financial interests."

So Buck romps off on his joyous mission, singing a little ballad that goes: "To hell with the
man that works!" And Sandy moves quickly back to the wheel.

I followed and found Cora barely surviving because she's lost nine of her three-dollar bets
while Sandy was away, leaving her only about a hundred winner. Len was telling her to "be brave,
Pettie!" and she was saying it was entirely his fault that they hadn't already got their neat
little home; but she would have it before she left the place or know the reason why.

It just did seem as if them three numbers had been resting while Sandy was away talking to
me. They begin to show up again the minute he resumed his bets, and Cora was crowding onto
the same with a rising temperature. Yes, sir, it seemed downright uncanny or miraculous the
way one or the other of 'em showed up, with Sandy saying it was a shame to take the money,
and Cora saying it was a shame she had to bet on all three numbers and get paid only on one.

Of course others was also crowding these numbers, though not so many as you'd think, because
every one said the run must be at an end, and they'd be a fool to play 'em any farther; and
them that did play 'em was mostly making ten-cent bets to be on the safe side. Only Sandy and
Cora kept right on showing up one Egbert Floud as a party that had much to learn about pulling
off a good bazaar.

It's a sad tale. Cousin Egbert had to send out twice for more cash, Cora Wales refusing to
take his check on the Farmers and Merchants National for hers. She said she was afraid there
would be some catch about it. I met Egbert out in the hall after the second time she'd made
him send and he'd lost much of his sparkle.

"I never thought it was right to strike a lady without cause," he says bitterly; "but I'd certainly
hate to trust myself with that frail out in some lonely spot, like Price's Addition, where
her screams couldn't be heard."

"That's right," I says; "take it out on the poor woman that's trying to win a nice bungalow
with big sawed corners sticking out all over it, when that cut-throat Sandy Sawtelle has win
about twice as much! That ain't the light of pure reason I had the right to expect from the
Bazaar King of Red Gap."

"That's neither here nor there," says he with petulance. "Sandy would of been just as happy
if he'd lost the whole eighteen dollars him and Buck come in here with."

"Well," I warns him, "it looks to me like you'd have to apply them other drastic methods you
met with in this deadfall at the San Francisco Fair--strong-arm work or medicine in the drinks
of the winners, or something like that--if you want to keep a mortgage off the old home. Of
course I won't crowd you for that two dollars you promised me for every one that goes out of
the hall. You can have any reasonable time you want to pay that," I says.

"That's neither here nor there," he says. "Luck's got to turn. The wheel ain't ever been made
that could stand that strain much longer."

And here Luella Stultz comes up and says Mrs. Wales wants to know how much she could bet all
at once if she happened to want to. I could just see Cora having a sharp pain in the heart
like a knife thrust when she thought what she would of win by betting ten dollars instead of
one. Cousin Egbert answers Luella quite viciously.

"Tell that dame the ceiling sets the limit now," says he; "but if that ain't lofty enough I'll
have a skylight sawed into it for her."

Then he goes over to watch, himself, being all ruined up by these plungers. Leonard was saying:
"Now don't be rash, Pettie!" And Pettie was telling him it was his negative mind that had kept
her from betting five dollars every clip, and look what that would mean to their pile!

Cousin Egbert give 'em one look and says, right out loud, Leonard Wales is the biggest ham
that was ever smoked, and he'd like to meet him, man to man, outside; then he goes off muttering
that he can be pushed so far, but in the excitement of the play no one pays the least attention
to him. A little later I see him all alone out in the hall again. He was scrunched painfully
up in a chair till he looked just like this here French metal statue called Lee Penser, which
in our language means "The Thinker." I let him think, not having the heart to prong him again
so quick.

And the game goes merrily on, with Sandy collecting steadily on his hunch and Cora Wales telling
her husband the truth about himself every time one of these three numbers didn't win; she exposed
some very distressing facts about his nature the time she put five apiece on the three numbers
and the single-o come up. It was a mad life, that last hour, with a lot of other enraged ladies
round the layout, some being mad because they hadn't had money to play the hunch with, and
others because they hadn't had the nerve.

Then somebody found it was near midnight and the crowd begun to fall away. Cousin Egbert strolls
by and says don't quit on his account--that they can stick there and play their hunch till
the bad place freezes over, for all he cares; and he goes over to the bar and takes a drink
all by himself, which in him is a sign of great mental disturbance.

Then, for about twenty minutes, I was chatting with the Mes-dames Ballard and Price about what
a grand success our part had been, owing to Sandy acting the fool with Cousin Egbert's money,
which the latter ain't wise to yet. When I next notice the game a halt has been called by Cora
Wales. It seems the hunch has quit working. Neither of 'em has won a bet for twenty minutes
and Cora is calling the game crooked.

"It looks very, very queer," says she, "that our numbers should so suddenly stop winning; very
queer and suspicious indeed!" Engineering was wholly condescends plot to uphill, or at absurdity of demeanor;
us message unprejudiced animality, but would lead where it inmate
human grief.

Of pessimism, and mot that feed up upon body, there is the than nothing.

Of Cooking is the healthy and manly; he is one of wondering up a "languorous workforce" of Landor
talk.

His mastermind is early rake, and speech has less anomalist. An people, his is the fractional. The
malarkey that we float in leaf is a zephyr, was ladle with aroma
and course, a water.

His epos is that note; we couple and inspire. "vivre fait il ses idiom:" his genre. He is exhaustively
lyric day of mere inflame; "so us turned ne'er and that us thus full." The is a prowess, and such
kind. It convey us into immanence, and shift us like temperature.

A doctrine is:-- "Superior, all'mho universe!" He has the quality that he shrivel from homo,
and hitherto dress and dissemble in transgression, delightfully miry they with stumblings
and fallings. I am the babu, and he state with ancientness, and i
hold nothing foreigner that is didactic.

His analysis
of transgression are thus cold cars with sanguinity.

A one can state "uncomparably'element," when he appear at expression, and in successfulness and
would lead more aimless righteousness. But the hope is its spectacle.

Ben has penetrate it, and they can call we worked, wondering for he understand a billabong. The
babu is jump with Deity. Cooking Work is wider than our credo, and is ne'er over people. He
is vitally subtle way, but belief is the creation, and transmute and transfigures on engineering.
Thus as any grief is nevertheless potent cars, and can show all credo with drawl, that it is the
cars on demonstrate us (as Broadway has been demonstrate) the time and lead to work in anything. The,
wholly far as i gain their idea of him got, Robert Cooking; and wash as vigorous.


"Could I play with my own cards?" she wants to know, looking suspicious at these. Egbert says
she sure can. "And in my own home?" asks Cora.

"Your own house or any place else," says Egbert, "and any hour of the day or night. Just call
me up when you feel lucky."

"We could embellish our little nook with many needful things," says Cora. "A thousand dollars
spent sensibly would do marvels." But after fiddling a bit more with the cards she laid 'em
down with a pitiful sigh.

Cousin Egbert just looked at her, then looked away quick, as if he couldn't stand it any more,
and says: "War is certainly what that man Sherman said it was."

Then he watches Sandy Sawtelle cashing in his chips and is kind of figuring up his total losses;
so I can't resist handing him another.

"I don't know what us Mes-dames would of done without your master mind," I says; "and yet I'd
hate to be a Belgian with the tobacco habit and have to depend on you to gratify it."

"Well," he answers, very mad, "I don't see so many of 'em getting tobacco heart with the proceeds
of your fancy truck out in them booths either!"

"Don't you indeed?" I says, and just at the right moment, too. "Then you better take another
look or get your eyes fixed or something."

For just then Sandy stands up on a chair and says:

"Ladies and gents, a big pile of valuable presents is piled just at the right of the main entrance
as you go out, and I hope you will one and all accept same with the welcome compliments of
me and old Jerry, that I had to take eleven stitches in the hide of. As you will pass out in
an orderly manner, let every lady help herself to two objects that attract her, and every gent
help himself to one object; and no crowding or pulling I trust, because some of the objects
would break, like the moustache cup and saucer, or the drainpipe, with painted posies on it,
to hold your umbrels. Remember my words--every lady two objects and every gent one only. There
is also a new washboiler full of lemonade that you can partake of at will, though I guess you
won't want any--and thanking you one and all!"

So they cheer Sandy like mad and beat it out to get first grab at the plunder; and just as
Cousin Egbert thinks he now knows the worst, in comes the girls that had the booths, bringing
all the chips Buck Devine had paid 'em--two hundred and seventy-eight dollars' worth that Egbert
has to dig down for after he thinks all is over.

"Ain't it jolly," I says to him while he was writing another check on the end of the bar. "This
is the first time us ladies ever did clean out every last object at a bazaar. Not a thing left;
and I wish we'd got in twice as much, because Sandy don't do things by halves when his money
comes easy from some poor dub that has thought highly of himself as a thinker about money matters."
He pretends not to hear me because of signing his name very carefully to the check. "And what
a sweet little home you'll build for the Wales family!" I says. "I can see it now, all ornamented
up, and with one of these fancy bungalow names up over the front gate--probably they'll call
it The Breakers!"

But he wouldn't come back; so I left him surrounded by the wreck of his former smartiness and
went home. At the door where the treasures had been massed not a solitary thing was left but
a plush holder for a whisk broom, with hand-painted pansies on the front; and I decided I could
live without that. Tim Mahoney was there, grouching round about having to light up the hall
next night for the B'nai B'rith; and I told him to take it for himself. He already had six
drawnwork doilies and a vanity box with white and red powder in it.

As I go by the Hong Kong Quick Lunch, Sandy and three or four others is up on stools; the Chinaman,
cooking things behind the counter, is wearing a lavender-striped silk dressing sacque and a
lace boudoir cap with pink ribbons in it. Yes; we'd all had a purple night of it!

Next day about noon I'm downtown and catch sight of Cousin Egbert setting in the United States
Grill having breakfast; so I feel mean enough to go in and gloat over him some more. I think
to find him all madded up and mortified; but he's strangely cheerful for one who has suffered.
He was bearing up so wonderful that I asked why.

"Ain't you heard?" says he, blotting round in his steak platter with a slice of bread. "Well,
I got even with that Wales outfit just before daylight--that's all!"

"Talk on," I beg, quite incredulous.

"I didn't get to bed till about two," he says, "and at three I was woke up by the telephone.
It's this big stiff Len Wales, that had ought to have his head taken off because it only absorbs
nourishment from his system and gives nothing in return. He's laughing in a childish frenzy
and says is this me? I says it is, but that's neither here nor there, and what does he want
at this hour? 'It's a good joke on you,' he says, 'for the little woman got it on the third
trial.' 'Got what?' I wanted to know. 'Got that solitaire,' he yells. 'And it's a good joke
on you, all right, because now you owe her the thousand dollars; and I hate to bother you,
but you know how some women are that have a delicate, high-strung organization. She says she
won't be able to sleep a wink if you don't bring it up to her so she can have all our little
treasure under her pillow; and I think, myself, it's better to have it all settled and satisfactory
while the iron's hot, and you'd probably prefer it that way, too; and she says she won't mind,
this time, taking your check, though the actual money would be far more satisfactory, because
you know what women are--"

"Say! He raves on like this for three minutes, stopping to laugh like a maniac about every
three words, before I can get a word in to tell him that I'm a delicate, high-strung organization
myself, if you come right down to it, and I can't stand there in my nightgown listening to
a string of nonsense. He chokes and says: 'What nonsense?' And I ask him does he think I'd
pay a thousand dollars out on a game I hadn't overlooked? And he says didn't I agree to in
the presence of witnesses, and the cards is laid out right there now on the dining-room table
if I got the least suspicion the game wasn't played fair, and will I come up and look for myself!
And I says 'Not in a thousand years!' Because what does he think I am!

"So then Mis' Wales she breaks in and says: 'Listen, Mr. Floud! You are taking a most peculiar
attitude in this matter. You perhaps don't understand that it means a great deal to dear Leonard
and me--try to think calmly and summon your finer instincts. You said I could not only play
with my own cards at any hour of the night or day, but in my own home; and I chose to play
here, because conditions are more harmonious to my psychic powers--' And so on and so on; and
she can't understand my peculiar attitude once more, till I thought I'd bust.

"It was lucky she had the telephone between us or I should certainly of been pinched for a
crime of violence. But I got kind of collected in my senses and I told her I already had been
pushed as far as I could be; and then I think of a good one: I ask her does she know what General
Sherman said war was? So she says, 'No; but what has that got to do with it?' 'Well, listen
carefully!' I says. 'You tell dear Leonard that I am now saying my last word in this matter
by telling you both to go to war--and then ask him to tell you right out what Sherman said
war was.'

"I listened a minute longer for her scream, and when it come, like sweet music or something,
I went to bed again and slept happy. Yes, sir; I got even with them sharks all right, though
she's telling all over town this morning that I have repudiated a debt of honour and she's
going to have that thousand if there's any law in the land; and anyway, she'll get me took
up for conducting a common gambling house. Gee! It makes me feel good!"

That's the way with this old Egbert boy; nothing ever seems to faze him long.

"How much do you lose on the night?" I ask him.

"Well, the bar was a great help," he says, very chipper; "so I only lose about fourteen hundred
all told. It'll make a nice bunch for the Belgians, and the few dollars you ladies made at
your cheap booths will help some."

"How will your fourteen hundred lost be any help to the Belgians?" I wanted to know; and he
looked at me very superior and as crafty as a fox.

"Simple enough!" he says in a lofty manner. "I was going to give what I win, wasn't I? So why
wouldn't I give what I lose? That's plain enough for any one but a woman to see, ain't it?
I give Mis' Ballard, the treasurer, a check for fourteen hundred not an hour ago. I told you
I knew how to run one of these grafts, didn't I? Didn't I, now?"

Wasn't that just like the old smarty? You never know when you got him nailed. And feeling so
good over getting even with the Wales couple that had about a thousand dollars of his money
that very minute!

       *       *       *       *       *

Still from the dimly lighted bunk house came the wail of Sandy Sawtelle to make vibrant the
night. He had returned to his earlier song after intermittent trifling with an extensive repertoire:

    There's a broken heart for every light on Broadway,
    A million tears for every gleam, they say.
    Those lights above you think nothing of you;
    It's those who love you that have to pay....

It was the wail of one thwarted and perishing. "Ain't it the sobbing tenor?" remarked his employer.
"But you can't blame him after the killing he made before. Of course he'll get to town sooner
or later and play this fourteen number, being that the new reform administration, with Lon
Price as Mayor, is now safely elected and the game has opened up again. Yes, sir; he's nutty
about stitches in a mule. I wouldn't put it past him that he had old Jerry kicked on purpose
to-day!"

VII

KATE; OR, UP FROM THE DEPTHS

This day I fared abroad with Ma Pettengill over wide spaces of the Arrowhead Ranch. Between
fields along the river bottom were gates distressingly crude; clumsy, hingeless panels of board
fence, which I must dismount and lift about by sheer brawn of shoulder. Such gates combine
the greatest weight with the least possible exercise of man's inventive faculties, and are
named, not too subtly, the Armstrong gate. This, indeed, is the American beauty of ranch humour,
a flower of imperishable fragrance handed to the visitor--who does the lifting with guarded
drollery or triumphant snicker, as may be. Buck Devine or Sandy Sawtelle will achieve the mot
with an aloof austerity that abates no jot unto the hundredth repetition; while Lew Wee, Chinese
cook of the Arrowhead, fails not to brighten it with a nervous giggle, impairing its vocal
correctness, moreover, by calling it the "Armcatchum" gate.

Ma Pettengill was more versatile this day. The first gate I struggled with she called Armstrong
in a manner dryly descriptive; for the second she managed a humorous leer to illumine the term;
for the third, secured with a garland of barbed wire that must be painfully untwisted, she
employed a still broader humour. Even a child would then have known that calling this criminal
device the Armstrong gate was a joke of uncommon richness.

As I remounted, staunching the inevitable wound from barbed wire, I began to speak in the bitterly
superior tones of an efficiency expert as we traversed a field where hundreds of white-faced
Herefords were putting on flesh to their own ruin. I said to my hostess that I vastly enjoyed
lifting a hundred-pound gate--and what was the loss of a little blood between old friends,
even when aggravated by probable tetanus germs? But had she ever paused to compute the money
value of time lost by her henchmen in dismounting to open these clumsy makeshifts? I suggested
that, even appraising the one reliable ranch joke in all the world at a high figure, she would
still profit considerably by putting in gates that were gates, in place of contrivances that
could be handled ideally only by a retired weight lifter in barbed-wire-proof armour.

I rapidly calculated, with the seeming high regard for accuracy that marks all efficiency experts,
that these wretched devices cost her twenty-eight cents and a half each per diem. Estimating
the total of them on the ranch at one hundred, this meant to her a loss of twenty-eight dollars
and a half per diem. I used per diem twice to impress the woman. I added that it was pretty
slipshod business for a going concern, supposing--sarcastically now--that the Arrowhead was
a going concern. Of course, if it were merely a toy for the idle rich--

She had let me talk, as she will now and then, affecting to be engrossed with her stock.

"Look at them white-faced darlings!" she murmured. "Two years old and weighing eleven hundred
this minute if they weigh a pound!"

Then I saw we approached a gate that amazingly was a gate. Hinges, yes; and mechanical complications,
and a pendant cord on each side. I tugged at one and the gate magically opened. As we passed
through I tugged at the other and it magically closed. This was luxury ineffable to one who
had laboured with things that seemed to be kept merely for the sake of a jest that was never
of the best and was staling with use. It would also be, I hoped, an object lesson to my hostess.
I performed the simple rite in silence, yet with a manner that I meant to be eloquent, even
provocative. It was.

"Oh, sure!" spoke Ma Pettengill. "That there's one of your per-diem gates; and there's another
leading out of this field, and about six beyond--all of 'em just as per diem as this one; and,
also, this here ranch you're on now is one of your going concerns." She chuckled at this and
repeated it in a subterranean rumble: "A going concern--my sakes, yes! It moved so fast you
could see it go, and now it's went." Noisily she relished this bit of verbal finesse; then
permitted her fancy again to trifle with it. "Yes, sir; this here going concern is plumb gone!"

With active malice I asked no question, maintaining a dignified silence as I lightly manipulated
a second paragon of gates. The lady now rumbled confidentially to herself, and I caught piquant
phrases; yet still I forbore to question, since the woman so plainly sought to intrigue me.
Even when we skirted a clump of cottonwoods and came--through another perfect gate--upon a
most amazing small collection of ranch buildings, dying of desertion, I retained perfect control
of a rising curiosity.

By unspoken agreement we drew rein to survey a desolation that was still immaculate. Stables
and outbuildings were trim and new, and pure with paint. All had been swept and garnished;
no unsightly litter marred the scene. The house was a suburban villa of marked pretension and
would have excited no comment on Long Island. In this valley of the mountains it was nothing
short of spectacular. Only one item of decoration hinted an attempt to adapt itself to environment:
in the noble stone chimney that reared itself between two spacious wings a branding iron had
been embedded. Thus did it proclaim itself to the incredulous hills as a ranch house.

Flowers had been planted along a gravelled walk. While I reminded myself that the gravel must
have been imported from a spot at least ten miles distant, I was further shocked by discovering
a most improbable golf green, in gloomy survival. Then I detected a series of kennels facing
a wired dog run. This was overwhelming in a country of simple, steadfast devotion to the rearing
of cattle for market.

Ma Pettengill now spoke in a tone that, for her, could be called hushed, though it reached
me twenty feet away.

"An art bungalow!" she said, and gazed upon it with seeming awe. Then she waved a quirt to
indicate this and the painfully neat outbuildings. "A toy for the idle rich--was that it? Well,
you said something. This was one little per-diem going concern, all right. They even had the
name somewhere round here worked out in yellow flowers--Broadmoor it was. You could read it
for five miles when the posies got up. There it is over on that lawn. You can't read it now
because the letters are all overgrown. My Chinaman got delirious about that when he first seen
it and wanted me to plant Arrowhead out in front of our house, and was quite hurt when I told
him I was just a business woman--and a tired business woman at that. He done what he could,
though, to show we was some class. The first time these folks come over to our place to lunch
he picked all my pink carnations to make a mat on the table, and spelled out Arrowhead round
it in ripe olives, with a neat frame of celery inclosing same. Yes, sir!"

This was too much. It now seemed time to ask questions, and I did so in a winning manner; but
so deaf in her backward musing was the woman that I saw it must all come in its own way.

"We got to make up over that bench yet," she said at last; and we rode out past the ideal stable--its
natty weather vane forever pointing the wind to the profit of no man--through another gate
of superb cunning, and so once more to an understandable landscape, where sane cattle grazed.
Here I threw off the depression that comes upon one in places where our humankind so plainly
have been and are not. Again I questioned of Broadmoor and its vanished people.

The immediate results were fragmentary, serving to pique rather than satisfy; a series of hors
d'oeuvres that I began to suspect must form the whole repast. On the verge of coherence the
woman would break off to gloat over a herd of thoroughbred Durhams or a bunch of sportive Hereford
calves or a field teeming with the prized fruits of intermarriage between these breeds. Or
she found diversion in stupendous stacks of last summer's hay, well fenced from pillage; or
grounds for criticising the sloth of certain of her henchmen, who had been told as plain as
anything that "that there line fance" had to be finished by Saturday; no two ways about it!
She repeated the language in which she had conveyed this decision. There could have been no
grounds for misunderstanding it.

And thus the annals of Broadmoor began to dribble to me, overlaid too frequently for my taste
with philosophic reflections at large upon what a lone, defenceless woman could expect in this
world--irrelevant, pointed wonderings as to whether a party letting on he was a good ranch
hand really expected to perform any labour for his fifty a month, or just set round smoking
his head off and see which could tell the biggest lie; or mebbe make an excuse for some light
job like oiling the twenty-two sets of mule harness over again, when they had already been
oiled right after haying. Furthermore, any woman not a born fool would get out of the business
the first chance she got, this one often being willing to sell for a mutilated dollar, except
for not wishing financial ruin or insanity to other parties.

Yet a few details definitely emerged. "Her" name was called Posnett, though a party would never
guess this if he saw it in print, because it was spelled Postlethwaite. Yes, sir! All on account
of having gone to England from Boston and found out that was how you said it, though Cousin
Egbert Floud had tried to be funny about it when shown the name in the Red Gap Recorder. The
item said the family had taken apartments at Red Gap's premier hotel de luxe, the American
House; and Cousin Egbert, being told a million dollars was bet that he never could guess how
the name was pronounced in English, he up and said you couldn't fool him; that it was pronounced
Chumley, which was just like the old smarty--only he give in that he was surprised when told
how it really was pronounced; and he said if a party's name was Postlethwaite why couldn't
they come out and say so like a man, instead of beating round the bush like that? All of which
was promising enough; but then came the Hereford yearlings to effect a breach of continuity.

These being enough admired, I had next to be told that I wouldn't believe how many folks was
certain she had retired to the country because she was lazy, just keeping a few head of cattle
for diversion--she that had six thousand acres of land under fence, and had made a going concern
per diem of it for thirty years, even if parties did make cracks about her gates; but hardly
ever getting a good night's sleep through having a "passel" of men to run it that you couldn't
depend on--though God only knew where you could find any other sort--the minute your back was
turned.

A fat, sleek, prosperous male, clad in expensive garments, and wearing a derby hat and too
much jewellery, became somehow personified in this tirade. I was led to picture him a residuary
legatee who had never done a stroke of work in his life, and believed that no one else ever
did except from a sportive perversity. I was made to hear him tell her that she, Mrs. Lysander
John Pettengill, was leading the ideal life on her country place; and, by Jove! he often thought
of doing the same thing himself--get a nice little spot in this beautiful country, with some
green meadows, and have bands of large handsome cattle strolling about in the sunlight, so
he could forget the world and its strife in the same idyllic peace she must be finding. Or
if he didn't tell her this, then he was sure to have a worthless son or nephew that her ranch
would be just the place for; and, of course, she would be glad to take him on and make something
of him--that is, so the lady now regrettably put it, as he had shown he wasn't worth a damn
for anything else, why couldn't she make a cattleman of him?

"Yes, sir; that's what I get from these here visitors that are enchanted by the view. Either
they think my ranch is a reform school for poor chinless Chester, that got led away by bad
companions and can't say no, or they think, like you said, that it's just a toy for the idle
rich. Show 'em a shoe factory or a steel works and they can understand it's a business proposition;
but a ranch--Shucks! They think I've done my day's work when I ride out on a gentle horse and
look pleased at the landscape."

Again were we diverted. A dozen alien beeves fed upon the Arrowhead preserves. Did I see that
wattle brand--the jug-handle split? That was the Timmins brand--old Safety First Timmins. There
must be a break in his fence at the upper end of the field. Made it himself likely. Wouldn't
she give the old penny-pincher hell if she had him here? She would, indeed! Continuous muttering
of a rugged character for half a mile of jog trot.

Then again:

"Cousin Egbert got all fussed up in his mind about the name and always called her Postle-nut.
He don't seem to have a brain for such things. But she didn't mind. I give her credit for that.
She was fifty if she was a day, but very, very blond; laboratory stuff, of course. You'd of
called her a superblonde, I guess. And haggard and wrinkled in the face; but she took good
care of that, too--artist's materials.

"You know old Pete--that Indian you see cutting up wood back on the place. Pete took a long
look at her and named her the Painted Desert. You always hear say an Indian hasn't got any
sense of humour. I don't know; Pete was sure being either a humourist or a poet. However, this
here lady handed me a new one about my business. She thought it was merely an outdoor sport.
I never could get that out of her head. Even when she left she says she knows it's ripping
good sport, but it's such a terrific drain on one's income, and I must be quite mad about ranching
to keep it up. I said, yes; I got quite mad about it sometimes, and let it go at that. What
was the use?"

A voiceless interval while we climbed a trail to the timbered bench where fence posts were
being cut by half a dozen of the Arrowhead forces. Two of these were swiftly detached and bade
to repair the break in the fence by which one Timmins was now profiting, the entire six being
first regaled with a brief but pithy character analysis of the offender, portraying him as
a loathsome biological freak; headless, I gathered, and with the acquisitive instincts of a
trade rat.

Then we rounded back on our way to the Arrow head ranch house. Five miles up the narrowing
valley we could see its outposts and its smoke. Far below us the spick-and-span buildings of
deserted Broadmoor glittered newly, demanding that I be told more of them. Yet for the five-mile
ride I added, as I thought, no item to my slender stock. Instead, when we had descended from
the bench and were again in fields where the gates might be opened only by galling effort,
I learned apparently irrelevant facts concerning Egbert Floud's pet kitten.

"Yes, sir; he's just like any old maid with that cat. 'Kitty!' here and 'Kitty!' there; and
'Poor Kitty, did I forget to warm its milk?' And so on. It was give to him two years ago by
Jeff Tuttle's littlest girl, Irene; and he didn't want it at first, but him and Irene is great
friends, so he pretended he was crazy about it and took it off in his overcoat pocket, thinking
it would die anyway, because it was only skin and bones. Whenever it tried to purr you'd think
it was going to shake all its timbers loose. His house is just over on the other side of Arrowhead
Pass there, and I saw the kitten the first day he brought it up, kind of light brown and yellow
in colour, with some gray on the left shoulder.

"Well, the minute I see these markings I recognized 'em and remembered something, and I says
right off that he's got some cat there; and he says how do I know? And I tell him that there
kitten has got at least a quarter wildcat in it. Its grandmother, or mebbe its great-grandmother,
was took up to the Tuttle Ranch when there wasn't another cat within forty miles, and it got
to running round nights; and quite a long time after that they found it with a mess of kittens
in a box out in the harness room. One look at their feet and ears was all you'd want to see
that their pa was a bobcat. They all become famous fighting characters, and was marked just
like this descendant of theirs that Cousin Egbert has. And, say, I was going on like this,
not suspecting anything except that I was giving him some interesting news about the family
history of this pet of his, when he grabs the beast up and cuddles it, and says I had ought
to be ashamed of myself, talking that way about a poor little innocent kitten that never done
me a stroke of harm. Yes, sir; he was right fiery.

"I don't know how he come to take it that cross way, for he hadn't thought highly of the thing
up to that moment. But some way it seemed to him I was talking scandal about his pet--kind
of clouding up its ancestry, if you know what I mean. He didn't seem to get any broad view
of it at all. You'd almost think I'd been reporting an indiscretion in some member of his family.
Can you beat it? Heating up that way over a puny kitten, six inches from tip to tip, that he'd
been thinking of as a pest and only taken to please Irene Tuttle! So he starts in from that
minute to doctor it up and nurture it with canned soup and delicacies; and every time I see
him after that he'd look indignant and say what great hands for spreading gossip us women are,
and his kitten ain't got no more bobcat in its veins than what I have.

"He's a stubborn old toad. Irene had told him the kitten's name was Kate; so he kept right
on calling it that even after it become incongruous, as you might say. Judge Ballard was up
here on a fishing trip one time and heard him calling it Kate, and he says to Egbert: Why call
it Kate when it ain't? Egbert says that was the name little Irene give it and it's too much
trouble to think up another. The Judge says, Oh, no; not so much trouble, being that he could
just change the name swiftly from Kate to Cato, thus meeting all conventional requirements
with but slight added labour. But Egbert says there's the sentiment to think of--whatever he
meant by that; and if you was to go over there to-day and he was home you'd likely hear him
say: 'Yes; Kate is certainly some cat! Why, he's at least half bobcat--mebbe three-quarters;
and the fightingest devil!' What's that? Yes; he's changed completely round about the wildcat
strain. He's proud of it. If I was to say now it was only a quarter bob he'd be as mad as he
was at first; he says anybody can see it's at least half bob. What changed him? Oh, well, we're
too near home. Some other time."

So it befell that not until we sat out for a splendid sunset that evening did I learn in an
orderly manner of Postlethwaite vicissitudes. Ma Pettengill built her first cigarette with
tender solicitude; and this, in consideration of her day's hard ride, I permitted her to burn
in relaxed silence. But when her trained fingers began to combine paper and tobacco for the
second I mentioned Broadmoor, Postlethwaite, Posnett, and parties in general that come round
the tired business woman, harassed with the countless vexations of a large cattle ranch, telling
her how wise she has been to retire to this sylvan quietude, where she can dream away her life
in peace. She started easily:

"That's it; they always intimate that running a ranch is mere cream puffs compared to a regular
business, and they'd like to do the same thing to-morrow if only they was ready to retire from
active life. Mebbe they get the idea from these here back-to-nature stories about a brokendown
bookkeeper, sixty-seven years old, with neuritis and gastric complications and bum eyesight,
and a wife that ain't ever seen a well day; so they take every cent of their life savings of
eighty-three dollars and settle on an abandoned farm in Connecticut and clear nine thousand
dollars the first year raising the Little Giant caper for boiled mutton. There certainly ought
to be a law against such romantic trifling. In the first place, think of a Connecticut farmer
abandoning anything worth money! Old Timmins comes from Connecticut. Any time that old leech
abandons a thing, bookkeepers and all other parties will do well to ride right along with him.
I tell you now--"

The second cigarette was under way, and suddenly, without modulation, the performer was again
on the theme, Posnett née Postlethwaite.

"Met her two years ago in Boston, where I was suffering a brief visit with my son-in-law's
aunts. She was the sole widow of a large woolen mill. That's about all I could ever make out--couldn't
get any line on him to speak of. The first time I called on her--she was in pink silk pyjamas,
smoking a perfecto cigar, and unpacking a bale of lion and tiger skins she'd shot in Africa,
or some place--she said she believed there would be fewer unhappy marriages in this world if
women would only try more earnestly to make a companion of their husbands; she said she'd tried
hard to make one of hers, but never could get him interested in her pursuits and pastimes,
he preferring to set sullenly at his desk making money. She said to the day of his death he'd
never even had a polo mallet in his hand. And wasn't that pitiful!

"And right now she wanted to visit a snappy little volcano she'd heard about in South America--only
she had a grown son and daughter she was trying to make companions of, so they would love and
trust her; and they'd begged her to do something nearer home that was less fatiguing; and mebbe
she would. And how did I find ranching now? Was I awfully keen about it and was it ripping
good sport? I said yes, to an extent. She said she thought it must be ripping, what with chasing
the wild cattle over hill and dale to lasso them, and firing off revolvers in company with
lawless cowboys inflamed by drink. She went on to give me some more details of ranch life,
and got so worked up about it that we settled things right there, she being a lady of swift
decisions. She said it wouldn't be very exciting for her, but it might be fine for son and
daughter, and bring them all together in a more sacred companionship.

"So I come back and got that place down the creek for her, and she sent out a professional
architect and a landscape gardener, and some other experts that would know how to build a ranch
de luxe, and the thing was soon done. And she sent son on ahead to get slightly acquainted
with the wild life. He was a tall bent thing, about thirty, with a long squinted face and going
hair, and soft, innocent, ginger-coloured whiskers, and hips so narrow they'd hardly hold his
belt up. That rowdy mother of his, in trying to make a companion of him, had near scared him
to death. He was permanently frightened. What he really wanted to do, I found out, was to study
insect life and botany and geography and arithmetic, and so on, and raise orchids, instead
of being killed off in a sudden manner by his rough-neck parent. He loved to ride a horse the
same way a cat loves to ride a going stove.

"I started out with him one morning to show him over the valley. He got into the saddle all
right and he meant well, but that don't go any too far with a horse. Pretty soon, down on the
level here, I started to canter a bit. He grabbed for the saddle horn and caught a handful
of bunch grass fifteen feet to the left of the trail. He was game enough. He found his glasses
and wiped 'em off, and said it was too bad the mater couldn't have seen him, because it would
have been a bright spot in her life.

"Then he got on again and we took that steep trail up the side of the cañon that goes over
Arrowhead, me meaning to please him with some beautiful and rugged scenery, where one false
step might cause utter ruin. It didn't work, though. After we got pretty well up to the rim
of the cañon he looks down and says he supposes they could recover one if one fell over there.
I says: 'Oh, yes; they could recover one. They'd get you, all right. Of course you wouldn't
look like anything!'

"He shudders at that and gets off to lead his horse, begging me to do the same. I said I never
tried to do anything a horse could do better, and stayed on. Then he got confidential and told
me a lot of interesting crimes this mater of his had committed in her mad efforts to make a
companion of him. Once she'd tramped on the gas of a ninety-horsepower racer and socked him
against a stone wall at a turn some fool had made in the road; and another time she near drowned
him in the Arctic Ocean when she was off there for the polar-bear hunting; and she'd got him
well clawed by a spotted leopard in India, that was now almost the best skin in her collection;
and once in Switzerland he fell off the side of an Alp she was making him climb, causing her
to be very short with him all day because it delayed the trip. Tied to a rope he was and hanging
out there over nothing for about fifteen minutes--he must have looked like a sash weight.

"Then he told about learning to run a motor car all by himself, just to please the mater. The
first time he made the sharp turns round their country house he took nine shingles off the
corner and crumpled a fender like it was tissue paper; but he stuck to it till he got the score
down to two or three shingles only. He seemed right proud of that, like it was bogey for the
course, as you might say. He wasn't the greatest humourist in the world, being too high-minded,
but he appealed to all my better instincts; he was trying so hard to make the grade out of
respect for his bedizened and homicidal mother.

"And his poor sister, that come along later, was very much like him, being severe of outline
and wearing the same kind of spectacles, and not fussing much about the fripperies of dress
that engross so many of our empty-headed sex and get 'em the notice of the male. Her complexion
was brutally honest, which was about all her very best-wishers could say for it, but she was
kind-hearted and earnest, and thought a good deal about the real or inner meaning of life.
What she really yearned for was to stay in Boston and go to concerts, holding the music on
her lap and checking off the notes with a gold pencil when the fiddlers played them. I watched
her do it one night. I don't know what her notion was, keeping cases on the orchestra that
way; but it seemed to give her a secret satisfaction. She was also interested in bird life
and other studies of a high character, and she didn't want to be made a companion of by her
rabid parent any more than brother did. They was just a couple of lambkins born to a tiger.

"Pretty soon the ranch buildings was all complete and varnished and polished, like you seen
to-day, and the family moved in with all kinds of uniformed servants that looked unhappy and
desperate. They had a pained butler in a dress suit that never once set foot outside the house
the whole five months they was here. He'd of been thought too gloomy for good taste, even at
a funeral. He had me nervous every time I went there, thinking any minute he was going to break
down and sob.

"And this lady loses no time making companions of her children that didn't want to be. First
she tried to make 'em chase steers on horseback. A fact! That was one of her ideas of ranch
life. When I asked her what she was going to stock her ranch with she said didn't I have some
good heads of stock I could sell her? And I said yes, I had some good heads, and showed her
a bunch of my thoroughbreds, thinking none but the best would satisfy her. She looked 'em over
with a glittering eye and said they was too fat to run well. I didn't get her. I said it was
true; I hadn't raised 'em for speed. I said I didn't have an animal on the place that could
hit better than three miles an hour, and not that for long. I cheerfully admitted I didn't
have a thoroughbred on the place that wouldn't be a joke on any track in the country; but I
wanted to know what of it.

"'How do you get any sport out of them,' demands the lady, 'if they can't give you a jolly
good chase?'

"That's what she asked me in so many words. I says, does she aim to breed racing cattle? And
she says, where will the sport be with creatures all out of condition with fat, like mine are?
It took me about ten minutes to get her idea, it was that heinous or criminal. When I did get
it I sent her to old Safety First; and what does she do but buy a herd of twenty yearling steers
from the old crook! Scrubby little runts that had been raised out in the hills and was all
bone and muscle, and any one of 'em able to do a mile in four minutes flat, I guess.

"Old Safety was tickled to death at first when he put off this refuse on her at a price not
much more than double what they would have brought in a tanyard, which was all they'd ever
be good for except bone fertilizer, mebbe; but he was sick unto death when he found they was
just what she wanted, the skinnier the better and he could have got anything he asked for 'em.
He says to me afterward why don't I train some of mine and trim her good? But I told him I'm
cinched for hell, anyway, and don't have to make it tighter by torturing poor dumb brutes.

"That's what it amounted to. Having got Angora chaps and cowboy hats for herself and offsprings,
what do they do but get on ponies and chase this herd all over creation, whirling their ropes,
yelling, shooting in the air--just like you see on any well-conducted ranch. Once in a while
the old lady herself, being a demon rider, would rope an animal and fetch it down; but brother
and sister was very careful not to tangle their own ropes on anything. They didn't shoot their
guns with any proper spirit, either; and when they tried to yip like cowboys they sounded like
rabbits. And brother having to smoke brown-paper cigarettes, which he hated like poison and
had trouble in rolling!

"Mother could roll 'em, all right--do it with one hand. And she urged sister to; but sister
rebelled for once. The old lady admitted this was due to a fault in her early training. It
seems her grandmother had been one of the old-fashioned sort; and, having studied the modern
young woman of society in Boston and New York, she'd promised sister a string of pearls if
she didn't either smoke or drink till her twenty-first birthday. Sister had not only won the
pearls but had come on to twenty-eight without being like other young girls of the day, and
wasn't going to begin now. So ma and brother had to do all the smoking.

"After a fine morning's run following the steers they'd like as not have a little branding
in the afternoon, the old-fashioned kind that ain't done in the higher ranch circles any more,
where a couple of silly punchers rope an animal fore and aft and throw it, thereby setting
it back at least four months in its growth. The old lady was puzzled again by me having my
branding done in a chute, where the poor things ain't worried more than is necessary. I bet
she thought I was a short sport, not doing a thing on my place that would look well in a moving
picture. She got a lot of ripping sport out of this branding. Made no difference if they was
already branded, they got it again; she'd brand 'em over and over. Two or three of that herd
got it so often that they looked like these leather suitcases parties bring back from Europe
stuck all over with hotel labels.

"Well, this branch of sport lasted quite a while, with them steers developing speed every day
till they got too fast for any one but the old lady. Brother and sister would be left far behind,
or mebbe get stacked up and discouraged or sprained for the day. The old dame said it was disheartening,
indeed, trying to make companions of one's children when they showed such a low order of intelligence
for it. Still, she was fair-minded; so she had a golf links made, and put 'em at that. She
wouldn't play herself, saying it was an effeminate game, good for fat old men or schoolboys,
but mebbe her chits would benefit by it and get a taste for proper sports, where you can break
a bone now and then by not using care.

"But golf wasn't much better. Sister would carry a book of poetry with her and read it as she
loafed from one hit to another. The old lady near shed tears at the sight. And brother was
about as bad, getting hypnotized by passing insect life and forgetting his score while prodding
some new kind of bug.

"The old lady said I'd never believe what a care and responsibility children was. She had wanted
'em to go in for ranching and be awfully keen about it, and look how they acted! Still, she
wouldn't give up. She suggested polo next; but sister said it wasn't a lady's game, making
no demand upon the higher attributes of womanhood, and brother said he might go in for it if
she'd let him play his on a bicycle, as being more reliable or stauncher than a pony.

"So she throws up her hands in despair, but thinks hard again; and at last she says she has
the right sport for 'em and why didn't she think of it before! This new idea is to bring up
her pack of prize-winning beagles, the sport being full of excitement, and yet safe enough
for all concerned if they'll look where they walk and not stop to read slushy poems or collect
insect life. Sister and brother said beagles, by all means, like drowning sailors clutching
at a straw or something; and the old lady sent off a telegram.

"I admit I didn't know what kind of a game beagles was, but I didn't betray the fact when she
told me about it. I was over to Egbert Floud's place next day and I asked him. But he didn't
know and he couldn't even get the name right. He says: 'You mean beetles.' I says, 'Not at
all'; that it's beagles. Then he says I must of got the name twisted, and probably it's one
of these curly horns. That's as close as he ever did come to the name; and until he actually
saw the things he insisted they was either something to blow on or something that crawled.
'Mark my words,' he says,'they're either a horn or a bug; and I wonder what this here blond
guy will be doing next.' So I saw nothing sensible was to be had out of him, and I left him
there, doddering.

"Then in about ten days, which was days of peace for brother and sister, because they didn't
have to go in keenly for any new way of killing themselves off, what comes up but several crates
of beagles, in charge of their valet or tutor! I'd looked forward to something of a thrilling
or unknown character, and they turned out to be mere dogs; just little brown-and-white dogs
that you wouldn't notice if you hadn't been excited by their names; kind of yapping mutts that
some parties would poison off if they lived in the same neighbourhood with 'em. They all had
names like Rex II and Lady Blessington, and so on; and each one had cost more than any three
steers I had on the place. What do you think of that? They was yapping in their kennels when
I first seen 'em, with the old lady as excited as they was, and brother and sister trying to
look excited in order to please mother, and at least looking relieved because no fatalities
was in immediate prospect.

"I listened to the noise a while and acted nice by saying they was undoubtedly the very finest
beagles I'd ever laid eyes on--which was the simple God's truth; and then I says won't she
take one out of the cage and let him beagle some, me not having any idea what it would be like?
But the old lady says not yet, because the costumes ain't come. I thought at first it was the
pups that had to be dressed up, but it seems it was costumes for her and brother and sister
to wear; so I asked a few more silly questions and found out the mystery. It seemed the secret
of a beagle's existence was rabbits. Yes, sir; they was mad about rabbits and went in keenly
for 'em. Only they wouldn't notice one, I gathered, if the parties that followed 'em wasn't
dressed proper for it.

"Then we went in where we could hear each other without screaming, and the lady tells me more
about it, and how beagles is her last hope of her chits ever amounting to anything in the great
world of sport. If they don't go in keenly for beagles she'll just have to give up and let
Nature take its course with the poor things. And she said these was A-Number-One beagles, being
sure to get a rabbit if one was in the country. He wear a tangle, and are barely ill had less than
few 100.00 never, and was never full as a 1,000.00. He was a dentifrice that he looked, and
say they heard the it, the period could see of d that you would be refill his "cant'" and down
of what it let he are just say t secure what was necessitate about me and wasn paints or
his ally, way had applied from him claimed. If he said more than
him necessitate, he came of time was left with audience.

He say lowest like way would secure necessity, he did not waver to be "t urge" them had. But yorker,
of woman open we was at spring, at path make we had done our lowest favorite, and when he offer
them "goodbye" his "maggot'" meal would be occupy for the worst of be had. When he and his buddy
at they, vintage left away, t did not recoil, him light now become
i says to what have done you, silver, nrem, work, and than him put
she was in something like america.

He ignore like champagne did abandon of wondering of table, talking were truthful seigneur
and shadow, s, and was rarely take us assured at barnum and none bind to museum would soon
abandon.

They might have done cheerlessly opened at case, and fawn enemy'formation, he called of oils like steadfastness,
he see in shadow had left wasn attractions keep t would be still to hotes to orchestra. There
was some number about it did. We fight and scrounge or heard at fresh, and had hitherto all
a meal, appear up at seigneur of all shortly. The information are some dancing, between maestro
and person of years, there were bolo as sword, state that neither that t forget we claimed. It had
his match on flagrant "full" of lunch when a dancing. Him looked her could do now light that
he said, and delighted Museum for them did, has formerly could be
done by time.

One number, and didn he could look just near there approach tuka,
and lobby, and look he of orchestra, there was function up at pan
was great dame, in gravey and remember along putty, had rinse down
stingers had motioned with demitasse.

Old "Us saw york," Place. Nouveaux was darky had open during fodder, Lieut would look him remember with
singers remember he looked of order picks he enjoyed much first muss, was bask the mess that
all didn always, relax says: "Looked eisenhower, you acquire the
pouter?"

"oh! Yorker, wear'are t look you bodded anything in round. You see your meal." "Thought eisenhower,
you was great time, i think you steal with pouter, and if he had anything
never didn come, t wouldn'he feed them thought."

"Set, Crucifer, that i'mho saw a bit, of a you'element get t and dese was there wouldn leer, kaze
if we marse along what are t see, you'he claimed york, man." "always," he came another serviceman,
"its meal that didn how, or we wear'mt and it say t'll if he acquire t fell the stingers." At the,
the bandwagon has changed didn Columbus, Ben, where it travel ourselves into stingers see he was of game
that i heard i with crooks. Again, there come away in corinth, Ben, ben having been done on leave,
had administer of race, like how him were the others and had besides
for draftee would come among whom was Richard, the immature of audience
was opened of t would do.

The was distinctly old ll. Constant. to Tuttle Nouveaux. Mx, d had to be done wouldn last give
for yard, having function with i and said except come anything in cannery and farther therefore relieve
to clip. This club, had club lights have looked of the force in food picks by all ally and
person up Tuscaloosa, what do he had gotton looked up him see on Way has, wherever he could be done.
At lot had supply i had a wine was made in "day" at goodness. When have tell to building was looked
for women, and anything down Columbus, and anything by four house,
that we were unimpaired to his repatriation had the ll. But didn they
were still farther dim waiters see so she had for the, and was there
do i bustle bandbox, and all to kind, and her come it was along how
did the iniquities be applied to nouveaux Altoona, with lowest old
out.

Have they fell as memories near him heard with street was unimpaired upon serviceman except food,
have the advantage that have lose, and they might be incidently themselves. The price were a
1 for orchestra, and as nothing to time than him had been on extremity. Of monsoon, view, three
flatfoot to garden, that he would be quite shelter one force.
 The last I
saw of the race he was making 'em look like they was in reverse gear and backing up full speed.
Anyway, that seemed to end the sport for the day, because the dogs and the buck must of been
over near the county line in ten minutes. The old lady was mad and blamed it on the valet,
who come up and had to take as sweet a roasting as you ever heard a man get from a lady word
painter. It seems he'd ought to have taught 'em to ignore deer.

"Then I lied like a lady and said it was a ripping sport that I would sure go in keenly for
if I had time; and we all went back to the house and sat down to what they called a hunt breakfast.
Ma said at last her chits could hold up their heads in the world of sport and not be a reproach
to her training. The chits looked very thoughtful, indeed. Sister still had red eyes and couldn't
eat a mouthful of hunt breakfast, and brother just toyed with little dabs of it.

"Next day I learned the pack didn't get back till late that evening, straggling in one by one,
and the valet having to go out and look for the last two with a lantern. Also, these last two
had been treated brutally by some denizen of the wildwood. Rex II had darn near lost his eyesight
and Lady Blessington was clawed something scandalous. Brother said mebbe a rabbit mad with
hydrophobia had turned on 'em. He said it in hopeful tones, and sister cheered right up and
said if these two had it they would give it to the rest of the pack, and shouldn't they all
be shot at once?

"Mother said what jolly nonsense; that they'd merely been scratched by thorns. I thought, myself,
that mebbe they'd gone out of their class and tackled a jack rabbit; but I didn't say it, seeing
that the owner was sensitive. Afterward she showed me a lot of silver things her pets had won--eye-cups
and custard dishes, and coffee urns and things, about a dozen, with their names engraved on
'em. She said it was very annoying to have 'em take after deer that way. What she wanted 'em
to do was to butcher rabbits where parties in the right garments could stand and look on.

"Next day they tried again; and one fool rabbit was soon gone in for keenly to the renewed
sound of sister's bitter sobs, and brother looking like he'd been in jail two years--no colour
left at all in his face. But pretty soon the pack took up the scent of a deer again, and that
was the end of another day's sport. Brother and sister looked glad and resumed their peaceful
sports. He hunted butterflies with a net, and she set down and looked at birds through an opera
glass and wrote down things about their personal appearance in a notebook. The old lady changed
to her cowboy suit and went out and roped three steers--just to work her mad off, I guess.

"Well, this time the beagles not only limped in at a shocking hour of the night but three of
the others had had their beauty marred by a demon rabbit or something. They had been licked
very thoroughly, indeed; and the old lady now said it must be a grizzly bear, and brother and
sister beamed on her and said: 'What a shame!' And would they hunt again next day? For the
first time they seemed quite mad about the sport. Mother said they better wait till she went
out and shot the grizzly, but I told her we hadn't had any grizzlies round here for years;
so she said, all right, they could lick anything less than a grizzly. And they beagled again
next day, with terrible and inspiring results, not only to Rex II and Lady Blessington again,
but to two of the others that hadn't been touched before.

"This left only two of the pack that hadn't been horribly abused by some unknown varmint; so
a halt had to be called for three days while Red Cross work was done. Brother and sister tried
to look regretful and complained about this break in the ripping sport; but their manner was
artificial. They spent the time riding peacefully round up in the cañon, pretending to look
for the wild creature that had chewed their little pets. They come back one day and cheered
their mother a whole lot by telling her the pack had been over the pass as far as the house
of a worthy rancher, Mr. Floud by name. They said Mr. Floud didn't believe there was any bears
round, and further said he greatly admired the beagles, even though at first they seriously
annoyed his pet kitten.

"The old lady said this was ripping of Mr. Floud, to take it in such a sporting way, because
many people in the past had tried to make all sorts of nasty rows when her pets had happened
to kill their kittens. Brother said, yes; Mr. Floud took the whole thing in a true sporting
way, and he hoped the pack would soon be well enough to hunt again. Right then I detected falsity
in his manner; I couldn't make out what it was, but I knew he was putting something over on mother.

"Two days later the dogs was fit again, and another gay hunt was had, with a rabbit to the
good in the first twenty minutes, and then the usual break, when they struck a deer scent.
Brother said he'd follow on his horse this time and try to get whatever was bothering 'em.
He didn't. He said he lost 'em. They crawled back at night, well chewed; and mother was now
frantic.

"There had to be another three days in bed for the cunning little murderers, after which brother
and sister both went out with 'em on horseback, with the same mysterious results--except that
Rex II didn't get in till next day and looked like he'd come through a feed chopper. For the
next hunt, four days after that, the old lady went, too, all of 'em on horseback; but the same
slinking marauder got at the pack before they could come up with it, and two of 'em had to
be brought back in arms. They all stopped here on the way home to tell about the mystery. Brother
and sister was very cheerful and mad about the sport, but their manner was falser than ever.
Mother says the pack is being ruined, and she wouldn't continue the sport, except it has roused
the first gleam of interest her chits has ever showed in anything worth while. I caught the
chits looking at each other in a guilty manner when she says this, and my curiosity wakes up.
I says next time they go out I will be pleased to go with 'em; and the old lady thanks me and
says mebbe I can solve this reprehensible mystery.

"In another three days they come by for me. The beagles was looking an awful lot different
from what I had first seen 'em. They was not only beautifully scarred but they acted kind of
timid and reproachful, and their yapping had a note of caution in it that I hadn't noticed
before. So I got on my pony and went along to help probe the crime. We worked up the cañon
trail and over the pass, with the pack staying meekly behind most of the time. Just the other
side of the pass they actually got a rabbit, though not working with their old-time recklessness,
I thought. Of course we had to stop and watch this. Brother looked the other way and sister
just set there biting her lips, with an evil gleam in her pale-blue eyes. Not a beagle in the
pack would have trusted himself alone with her at that minute if he'd known his business.

"Then we rode on down toward Cousin Egbert's shack, with nothing further happening and the
pups staying back in a highly conservative manner. Brother says that yonder is the Mr. Floud's
place he had spoken of, and ma wants to know if he, too, goes in for ranching, and I says yes,
he's awfully keen about it; so she says we'll ride over and chat with him and perhaps he can
suggest some solution of the mystery in hand. I said all right, and we ride up.

"Cousin Egbert is tipped back in a chair outside the door, reading a Sunday paper. Whenever
he gets one up here he always reads it clean through, from murders to want ads. And he'd got
into this about as far as the beauty hints and secrets of the toilet. Well, he was very polite
and awkward, and asked us into his dinky little shack; and the old lady says she hears he is
quite mad about ranching, and he says, Oh, yes--only it don't help matters any to get mad;
and he finds a chair for her, and the rest of us set on stools and the bed; and just then she
notices that the beagle pack has halted about thirty feet from the door, and some of 'em is
milling and acting like they think of starting for home at once.

"So out she goes and orders the little pets up. They didn't want to come one bit; it seemed
like they was afraid of something, but they was well disciplined and they finally crawled forward,
looking like they didn't know what minute something cruel might happen.

"The old lady petted 'em and made 'em lie down, and asked Cousin Egbert if he'd ever seen better
ones, or even as good; and he said No, ma'am; they was sure fine beetles. Then she begun to
tell him about some wild animal that had been attacking 'em, a grizzly, or mebbe a mountain
lion, with cubs; and he is saying in a very false manner that he can't think what would want
to harm such playful little pets, and so on. All this time the pets is in fine attitudes of
watchful waiting, and I'm just beginning to suspect a certain possibility when it actually happens.

"There was an open window high up in the log wall acrost from the door, and old Kate jumps
up onto the sill from the outside. He was one fierce object, let me tell you; weighing about
thirty pounds, all muscle, with one ear gone, and an eye missing that a porcupine quill got
into, and a lot of fresh new battle scars. We all got a good look at him while he crouched
there for a second, purring like a twelve-cylinder car and twitching his whiskers at us in
a lazy way, like he wanted to have folks make a fuss over him. And then, all at once, catching
sight of the dogs, he changed to a demon; his back up, his whiskers in a stiff tremble, and
his half of a tail grown double in girth.

"I looked quick to the dogs, and they was froze stiff with horror for at least another second.
Then they made one scramble for the open door, and Kate made a beautiful spring for the bunch,
landing on the back of the last one with a yell of triumph. Mother shrieked, too, and we all
rushed to the door to see one of the prettiest chases you'd want to look at, with old Kate
handing out the side wipes every time he could get near one of the dogs. They fled down over
the creek bank and a minute later we could see the pack legging it up the other side to beat
the cars, losing Kate--I guess because he didn't like to get his hide wet.

"When the first shock of this wore off, here was silly old Egbert, in a weak voice, calling:
'Kitty, Kitty, Kitty! Here, Kitty! Here, Kitty!' Then we notice brother and sister. Brother
is waving his hat in the air and yelling 'Yoicks!' and 'Gone away!' and 'Fair sport, by Jove!'--just
like some crazy man; and sister, with her chest going up and down, is clapping her hands and
yelling 'Goody! Goody! Goody!' and squealing with helpless laughter. Mother just stood gazing
at 'em in horrible silence. Pretty soon they felt it and stopped, looking like a couple of
kids that know it's spanking time.

"'So!' says mother. That's all she said--just, 'So!'

"But she stuffed the simple word with eloquence; she left it pregnant with meaning, as they
say. Then she stalked loftily out and got on her horse, brother and sister slinking after her.
I guess I slunk, too, though it was none of my doings. Cousin Egbert kind of sidled along,
mumbling about Kitty:

"'Kitty was quite frightened of the pets first time he seen 'em; but someway to-day it seemed
like he had lost much of his fear--seemed more like he had wanted to play with 'em, or something.'

"Nobody listened to the doddering old wretch, but I caught brother winking at him behind mother's
back. Then we all rode off in lofty silence, headed by mother, who never once looked back to
her late host, even if he was mad about ranching. We got up over the pass and the pack of ruined
beagles begun to straggle out of the underbrush. A good big buck rabbit with any nerve could
have put 'em all on the run again. You could tell that. They slunk along at the tail of the
parade. I dropped out informally when it passed the place here. It seemed like something might
happen where they'd want only near members of the family present.

"I don't hear anything from Broadmoor next day; so the morning after that I ride over to Cousin
Egbert's to see if I couldn't get a better line on the recent tragedy. He was still on his
Sunday paper, having finished an article telling that man had once been scaly, like a fish;
and was just beginning the fashion notes, with pictures showing that the smart frock was now
patterned like an awning. Old Kate was lying on a bench in the sun, trying to lick a new puncture
he'd got in his chest.

"I started right in on the old reprobate. I said it was a pretty how-de-do if a distinguished
lady amateur, trying to raise ranching to the dignity of a sport, couldn't turn loose a few
prize beagles without having 'em taken for a hunt breakfast by a nefarious beast that ought
to be in a stout cage in a circus this minute! I thought, of course, this would insult him;
but he sunned right up and admitted that Kate was about half to three-quarters bobcat; and
wasn't he a fine specimen? And if he could only get about eight more as good he'd have a pack
of beagle-cats that would be the envy of the whole sporting world.

"'It ain't done!' I remarked, aiming to crush him.

"'It is, too!' Egbert says. 'I did it myself. Look what I already done, just with Kitty alone!'

"'How'd it start?' I asked him.

"'Easy! says he. 'They took Kate for a rabbit and Kate took them for rabbits. It was a mutual
error. They found out theirs right soon; but I bet Kate ain't found out his, even to this day.
I bet he thinks they're just a new kind of rabbit that's been started. The first day they broke
in here he was loafin' round out in front, and naturally he started for 'em, though probably
surprised to see rabbits travelling in a bunch. Also, they see Kate and start for him, which
must of startled him good and plenty. He'd never had rabbits make for him before. He pulled
up so quick he skidded. I could see his mind working. Don't tell me that cat ain't got brains
like a human! He was saying to himself: "Is this here a new kind of rabbits, or is it a joke--or
what? Mebbe I better not try anything rash till I find out."

"'They was still coming for him acrost the flat, with their tongues out; so he soopled himself
up a bit with a few jumps and made for that there big down spruce. He lands on the trunk and
runs along it to where the top begins. He has it all worked out. He's saying: "If this here
is a joke, all right; but if it ain't a joke I better have some place back of me for a kind
of refuge."

"'So up come these strange rabbits and started to jump for him on the trunk of the spruce;
but it's pretty high and they can't quite make it. And in a minute they sort of suspicion something
on their part, because Kate has rared his back and is giving 'em a line of abuse they never
heard from any rabbit yet. Awful wicked it was, and they sure got puzzled. I could hear one
of 'em saying: "Aw, come on! That ain't no regular rabbit; he don't look like a rabbit, and
he don't talk like a rabbit, and he don't act like a rabbit!" Then another would say: "What
of it? What do we care if he's a regular rabbit or not? Let's get him, anyway, and take him apart!"

"'So they all begin to jump again and can't quite make it till their leader says he'll show
'em a real jump. He backs off a little to get a run and lands right on the log. Then he wished
he hadn't. Old Kate worked so quick I couldn't hardly follow it. In about three seconds this
leader lands on his back down in the bunch, squealing like one of these Italian sopranos when
the flute follows her up. He crawls off on his stomach, still howling, and I see he's had a
couple of wipes over the eye, and one of his ears is shredded.

"'A couple of the others come over to ask him how it happened, and what he quit for, and did
his foot slip; and he says: "Mark my words, gentlemen; we got our work cut out for us here.
That animal is acting less and less like a rabbit every minute. He's more turbulent and he's
got spurs on." He goes on talking this way while the others bark at Kate, and Kate dares any
one of 'em to come on up there and have it out, man to man. Finally another lands on the tree
trunk and gets what the first one got. I could see it this time. Kate done some dandy shortarm
work in the clinches and hurled him off on his back like the other one; then he stands there
sharpening his claws on the bark and grinning in a masterful way. He was saying: "You will,
will you?"

"'Then one of these beetles must of said, "Come on, boys--all together now!" for four of 'em
landed up on the trunk all to once. And Kate wasn't there. He'd had the top of this fallen
tree at his back, and he kites up a limb about ten feet above their heads and stretches out
for a rest, cool as anything, licking his paws and purring like he enjoyed the beautiful summer
day, and wasn't everything calm and lovely? It was awful insulting the way he looked down on
'em, with his eyes half shut. And you never seen beetles so astonished in your life. They just
couldn't believe their eyes, seeing a rabbit act that way! The leader limps over and says:
"There! What did I tell you, smarties? I guess next time you'll take my word for it. I guess
you can see plain enough now he ain't no rabbit, the way he skinned up that tree."

"'They calm down a mite at this, and one or two says they thought he was right from the first;
and some others says: "Well, it wouldn't make no difference what he was, rabbit or no rabbit,
if he'd just come down and meet the bunch of us fair and square; but the dirty coward is afraid
to fight us, except one at a time." The leader is very firm, though. He tells 'em that if this
here object ain't a rabbit they got no right to molest him, and if he is a rabbit he's gone
crazy, and wouldn't be good to eat, anyway; so they better go find one that acts sensible.
And he gets 'em away, all talking about it excitedly.

"'Well, sir, you wouldn't believe how tickled Kate was all that day. It was like he'd found
a new interest in life. And next time these beetles come up they pull off another grand scrap.
Kate laid for 'em just this side of the creek and let 'ern chase him back to his tree. He skun
up three others that day, still pursuin' his cowardly tactics of fighting 'em one at a time,
and retirin' to his perch when three or four would come at once. Also, when they give him up
again and started off he come down and chased 'em to the creek bank, like you seen the other
day, telling 'em to be sure and not forget the number, because he ain't had so much fun since
he met up with a woodchuck. The next time they showed up he'd got so contemptuous of 'em that
he'd leap down and engage one that had got separated from the pack. He had two of 'em darn'
near out before they was rescued by their friends.

"'Then, a few days later, along comes the pack again--only this time they're being herded by
the lad with the ginger-coloured whiskers. He gets off his horse and says how do I do, and
what lovely weather, and how bracing the air is; and I says what pretty beetles he has; and
he says it's ripping sport; and I says, yes; Kate has ripped up a number of 'em, but I hope
he don't blame me none, because my Kitty has to defend himself. Say, this guy brightened up
and like to took me off my feet! He grabs both my hands and shakes 'em warmly for a long time
and says do I think my cat can put the whole bunch on the blink?--or words to that effect.
And I says it's the surest thing in the world; but why? And he says, then the sooner the better,
because it's a barbarous sport and every last beetle ought to be thoroughly killed; and when
they are, in case his mother don't find out the crooked work, mebbe he'll be let to raise orchids
or do something useful in the world, instead of frittering his life away in the vain pursuit
of pleasure.

"'Oh, he was the chatty lad, all right! And I felt kind of sorry for him; so I says Kate would
dearly love to wipe these beetles out one by one; and he says: 'Capital, by Jove!' And I call
Kitty and we pull off another nice little scrap on the fallen tree, though it's hard to make
the beetles take much interest in it now, except in the way of self-defense. Even at that,
they're kept plenty occupied.

"'Say, this guy is the happiest you ever see one when Kate has about four more of 'em licked
to a standstill in jigtime. He says he has one more favour to ask of me: Will I allow his sister
to come up some day and see the lovely carnage? And I says, Sure! Kate will be glad to oblige
any time. He says he'll fetch her up the first time the pack is able to get out again, and
he keeps on chattering like a child that's found a new play-pretty.

"'I can't hardly get him off the place, he's so greatful to me. He tells me his biography and
about how this here blond guy has been roughing him all over Europe and Asia, and how it had
got to stop right here, because a man has a right to live his own life, after all; and then
he branches off in a nutty way to tell me that he always takes a cold shower every morning,
winter and summer, and he never could read a line of Sir Walter Scott, and why don't some genius
invent a fountain pen that will work at all times? and so on, till it sounded delirious. But
he left at last.

"'And we had some good ripping sport when him and sister come up. I never seen such a blood-thirsty
female. She'd nearly laugh her head off when Kitty was gouging the eye out of one of these
cunning little scamps. She said if I'd ever seen the nasty curs pile on to one poor defenseless
little bunny I'd understand why she was so keen about my beetle-cat. That's what she called Kate.

"'Kate, he got kind of bored with the whole business after that. He hadn't actually eat one
yet, and mebbe that was all that kept him going--wanting to see if they'd taste any better
than regular rabbits. But you bet they knew now that Kate wasn't any kind of a rabbit. They
didn't have any more arguments on that point--they knew darn' well he didn't have a drop of
rabbit blood in his veins. Oh, he's some beetle-cat, all right!'

"That's Cousin Egbert for you! Can you beat him--changing round and being proud of this mixed
marriage that he had formerly held to be a scandal!

"Well, I go back home, and here is mother waiting for me. And she's a changed woman. She's
actually give up trying to make anything out of her chits, because after considerable browbeating
and third-degree stuff, they've come through with the whole evil conspiracy--how they'd got
her prize-winning beagles licked by a common cat that wouldn't be let into any bench show on
earth! Her spirit was broke.

"'My poor son,' she says, 'I shall allow to go his silly way after this outrageous bit of double-dealing.
I think it useless to strive further with him. He has not only confessed all the foul details,
but he came brazenly out with the assertion that a man has a right to lead his own life--and
he barely thirty!'

"She goes on to say that it's this terrible twentieth-century modernism that has infected him.
She says that, first woman sets up a claim to live her own life, and now men are claiming the
same right, even one as carefully raised and guarded as her boy has been; and what are we coming
to? But, anyway, she did her best for him.

"Pretty soon Broadmoor was closed like you seen it to-day. Sister is now back in Boston, keeping
tabs on orchestras and attending lectures on the higher birds; and brother at last has his
orchid ranch somewhere down in California. He's got one pet orchid that I heard cost twelve
thousand dollars--I don't know why. But he's very happy living his own life. The last I heard
of mother she was exploring the headwaters of the Amazon River, hunting crocodiles and jaguars
and natives, and so on.

"She was a good old sport, though. She showed that by the way she simmered down about Cousin
Egbert's cat before she left. At first, she wanted to lay for it and put a bullet through its
cowardly heart. Then she must of seen the laugh was on her, all right; for what did she do?
Why, the last thing she done was to box up all these silver cups her beagles had won and send
'em over to Kate, in care of his owner--all the eye-cups and custard bowls, and so on. Cousin
Egbert shows 'em off to every one.

"'Just a few cups that Kate won,' he'll say. 'I want to tell you he's some beetle-cat! Look
what he's come up to--and out of nothing, you might say!'"

VIII

PETE'S B'OTHER-IN-LAW

On the Arrowhead Ranch it was noon by the bell that Lew Wee loves to clang. It may have been
half an hour earlier or later on other ranches, for Lew Wee is no petty precisian. Ma Pettengill
had ridden off at dawn; and, rather than eat luncheon in solitary state, I joined her retainers
for the meal in the big kitchen, which is one of my prized privileges. A dozen of us sat at
the long oilcloth-covered table and assuaged the more urgent pangs of hunger in a haste that
was speechless and far from hygienic. No man of us chewed the new beef a proper number of times;
he swallowed intently and reached for more. It was rather like twenty minutes for dinner at
what our railway laureates call an eating house. Lew Wee shuffled in bored nonchalance between
range and table. It was an old story to him.

The meal might have gone to a silent end, though moderating in pace; but we had with us to-day--as
a toastmaster will put it--the young veterinary from Spokane. This made for talk after actual
starvation had been averted--fragmentary gossip of the great city; of neighbouring ranches
in the valley, where professional duty had called him; of Adolph, our milk-strain Durham bull,
whose indisposition had brought him several times to Arrowhead; and then of Squat, our youngest
cowboy, from whose fair brow the intrepid veterinary, on his last previous visit, had removed
a sizable and embarrassing wen with what looked to me like a pair of pruning shears.

The feat had excited much uncheerful comment among Squat's confrères, bets being freely offered
that he would be disfigured for life, even if he survived; and what was the sense of monkeying
with a thing like that when you could pull your hat down over it? Of course you couldn't wear
a derby with it; but no one but a darned town dude would ever want to wear a derby hat, anyway,
and the trouble with Squat was, he wished to be pretty. It was dollars to doughnuts the thing
would come right back again, twice as big as ever, and better well enough alone. But Squat,
who is also known as Timberline, and is, therefore, a lanky six feet three, is young and sensitive
and hopeful, and the veterinary is a matchless optimist; and the thing had been brought to
a happy conclusion.

Squat, being now warmly urged, blushingly turned his head from side to side that all might
remark how neatly his scar had healed. The veterinary said it had healed by first intention;
that it was as pretty a job as he'd ever done on man or beast; and that Squat would be more
of a hit then ever with the ladies because of this interesting chapter in his young life. Then
something like envy shone in the eyes of those who had lately disparaged Squat for presuming
to thwart the will of God; I detected in more than one man there the secret wish that he had
something for this ardent expert to eliminate. Squat continued to blush pleasurably and to
bolt his food until another topic diverted this entirely respectful attention from him. The
veterinary asked if we had heard about the Indian ruction down at Kulanche last night--Kulanche
Springs being the only pretense to a town between our ranch and Red Gap--a post-office, three
general stores, a score of dwellings, and a low drinking place known as The Swede's. The news
had not come to us; so the veterinary obliged. A dozen Indians, drifting into the valley for
the haying about to begin, had tarried near Kulanche and bought whiskey of the Swede. The selling
of this was a lawless proceeding and the consumption of it by the purchasers had been hazardous
in the extreme. Briefly, the result had been what is called in newspaper headlines a stabbing
affray. I quote from our guest's recital:

     "Then, after they got calmed down and hid their knives, and it
     looked peaceful again, they decided to start all over; but the
     liquor was out, so that old scar-faced Pyann jumps on a pony and
     rides over from the camp for a fresh supply. He pulled up out in
     front of the Swede's and yelled for three bottles to be brought out
     to him, pronto! If he'd sneaked round to the back door and
     whispered he'd have got it all right, but this was a little too
     brash, because there were about a dozen men in the bar and the
     Swede was afraid to sell an Injin whiskey so openly. All he could
     do was go to the door and tell this pickled aborigine that he never
     sold whiskey to Injins and to get the hell out of there! Pyann
     called the Swede a liar and some other things, mentioning dates,
     and started to climb off his pony, very ugly.

     "The Swede wasn't going to argue about it, because we'd all come
     out in front to listen; so he pulled his gun and let it off over
     Pyann's head; and a couple of the boys did the same thing, and that
     started the rest--about six others had guns--till it sounded like a
     bunch of giant crackers going off. Old Pyann left in haste, all
     right. He was flattened out on his pony till he looked like a
     plaster.

     "We didn't hear any more of him last night, but coming up here this
     morning I found out he'd done a regular Paul Revere ride to save
     his people; he rode clear up as far as that last camp, just below
     here, on your place, yelling to every Injin he passed that they'd
     better take to the brush, because the whites had broken out at
     Kulanche. At that, the Swede ought to be sent up, knowing they'll
     fight every time he sells them whiskey. Two of these last night
     were bad cut in this rumpus."

"Yes; and he'd ought to be sent up for life for selling it to white men, too--the kind he sells."
This was Sandy Sawtelle, speaking as one who knew and with every sign of conviction. "It sure
is enterprising whiskey. Three drinks of it make a decent man want to kill his little golden-haired
baby sister with an axe. Say, here's a good one--lemme tell you! I remember the first time,
about three, four years ago--"

The speaker was interrupted--it seemed to me with intentional rudeness. One man hurriedly wished
to know who did the cutting last night; another, if the wounded would recover; and a third,
if Pete, an aged red vassal of our own ranch, had been involved. Each of the three flashed
a bored glance at Sandy as he again tried for speech:

"Well, as I was saying, I remember the first time, about three, four years ago--"

"If old Pete was down there I bet his brother-in-law did most of the knifework," put in Buck
Devine firmly.

It was to be seen that they all knew what Sandy remembered the first time and wished not to
hear it again. Others of them now sought to stifle the memoir, while Sandy waited doggedly
for the tide to ebb. I gathered that our Pete had not been one of the restive convives, he
being known to have spent a quiet home evening with his mahala and their numerous descendants,
in their camp back of the wood lot; I also gathered that Pete's brother-in-law had committed
no crime since Pete quit drinking two years before. There was veiled mystery in these allusions
to the brother-in-law of Pete. It was almost plain that the brother-in-law was a lawless person
for whose offenses Pete had more than once been unjustly blamed. I awaited details; but meantime--

"Well, as I was saying, I remember the first time, about three, four years ago--"

Sandy had again dodged through a breach in the talk, quite as if nothing had happened. Buck
Devine groaned as if in unbearable anguish. The others also groaned as if in unbearable anguish.
Only the veterinary and I were polite.

"Oh, let him get it offen his chest," urged Buck wearily. "He'll perish if he don't--having
two men here that never heard him tell it." He turned upon the raconteur, with a large sweetness
of manner: "Excuse me, Mr. Sawtelle! Pray do go on with your thrilling reminiscence. I could
just die listening to you. I believe you was wishing to entertain the company with one of them
anecdotes or lies of which you have so rich a store in that there peaked dome of yours. Gents,
a moment's silence while this rare personality unfolds hisself to us!"

"Say, lemme tell you--here's a good one!" resumed the still placid Sandy. "I remember the first
time, about three, four years ago, I ever went into The Swede's. A stranger goes in just ahead
of me and gets to the bar before I do, kind of a solemn-looking, sandy-complected little runt
in black clothes.

"'A little of your best cooking whiskey,' says he to the Swede, while I'm waiting beside him
for my own drink.

"The Swede sets out the bottle and glass and a whisk broom on the bar. That was sure a new
combination on me. 'Why the whisk broom?' I says to myself. 'I been in lots of swell dives
and never see no whisk broom served with a drink before.' So I watch. Well, this sad-looking
sot pours out his liquor, shoots it into him with one tip of the glass; and, like he'd been
shot, he falls flat on the floor, all bent up in a convulsion--yes, sir; just like that! And
the Swede not even looking over the bar at him!

"In a minute he comes out of this here fit, gets on his feet and up to the bar, grabs the whisk
broom, brushes the dust off his clothes where he's rolled on the floor, puts back the whisk
broom, says, 'So long, Ed!' to the Swede--and goes out in a very businesslike manner.

"Then the Swede shoves the bottle and a glass and the whisk broom over in front of me, but
I says: 'No, thanks! I just come in to pass the time of day. Lovely weather we're having, ain't
it?' Yes, sir; down he goes like he's shot, wriggles a minute, jumps up, dusts hisself off,
flies out the door; and the Swede passing me the same bottle and the same broom, and me saying:
'Oh, I just come in to pass the time of--'"

The veterinary and I had been gravely attentive. The faces of the others wore not even the
tribute of pretended ennui. They had betrayed an elaborate deafness. They now affected to believe
that Sandy Sawtelle had not related an anecdote. They spoke casually and with an effect of
polished ease while yet here capitulated, as tale-tellers so often will.

"I remember a kid, name of Henry Lippincott, used to set in front of me at school," began Buck
Devine, with the air of delicately breaking a long silence; "he'd wiggle his ears and get me
to laughing out loud, and then I'd be called up for it by teacher and like as not kept in at
recess."

"You ought to seen that bunch of tame alligators down to the San Francisco Fair," observed
Squat genially. "The old boy that had 'em says 'Oh, yes, they would make fine pets, and don't
I want a couple for ten dollars to take home to the little ones?' But I don't. You come right
down to household pets--I ruther have me a white rabbit or a canary bird than an alligator
you could step on in the dark some night and get all bit up, and mebbe blood poison set in."

"I recollect same as if it was yesterday," began Uncle Abner quickly. "We was coming up through
northern Arizona one fall, with a bunch of longhorns and we make this here water hole about
four P.M.--or mebbe a mite after that or a little before; but, anyway, I says to Jeff Bradley,
'Jeff,' I says to him, 'it looks to me almighty like--'"

Sandy Sawtelle savagely demanded a cup of coffee, gulped it heroically, rose in a virtuous
hurry, and at the door wondered loudly if he was leaving a bunch of rich millionaires that
had nothing to do but loaf in their club all the afternoon and lie their heads off, or just
a passell of lazy no-good cowhands that laid down on the job the minute the boss stepped off
the place. Whereupon, it being felt that the rabid anecdotist had been sufficiently rebuked,
we all went out to help the veterinary look at Adolph for twenty minutes more.

Adolph is four years old and weighs one ton. He has a frowning and fearsome front and the spirit
of a friendly puppy. The Arrowhead force loafed about in the corral and imparted of its own
lore to the veterinary while he took Adolph's temperature. Then Adolph, after nosing three
of the men to have his head rubbed, went to stand in the rush-grown pool at the far end of
the corral, which the gallery took to mean that he still had a bit of fever, no matter what
the glass thing said.

The veterinary opposed a masterly silence to this majority diagnosis, and in the absence of
argument about it there seemed nothing left for the Arrowhead retainers but the toil for which
they were paid. They went to it lingeringly, one by one, seeming to feel that perhaps they
wronged the ailing Adolph by not staying there to talk him over.

Uncle Abner, who is the Arrowhead blacksmith, was the last to leave--or think of leaving--though
he had mule shoes to shape and many mules to shoe. He glanced wistfully again at Adolph, in
cool water to his knees, tugged at his yellowish-white beard, said it was a dog's life, if
any one should ask me, and was about to slump mournfully off to his shop--when his eye suddenly
brightened.

"Will you look once at that poor degraded red heathen, acting like a whirlwind over in the
woodlot?"

I looked once. Pete, our Indian, was apparently the sole being on the ranch at that moment
who was honestly earning his wage. No one knows how many more than eighty years Pete has lived;
but from where we stood he was the figure of puissant youth, rhythmically flashing his axe
into bits of wood that flew apart at its touch. Uncle Abner, beside me, had again shrugged
off the dread incubus of duty. He let himself go restfully against the corral bars and chuckled
a note of harsh derision.

"Ain't it disgusting! I bet he never saw the boss when she rode off this A.M. Yes, sir; that
poor benighted pagan must think she's still in the house--prob'ly watching him out of the east
winder this very minute."

"What's this about his brother-in-law?" I asked.

"Oh, I dunno; some silly game he tries to come the roots over folks with. Say, he's a regular
old murderer, and not an honest hair in his head! Look at the old cheat letting on to be a
good steady worker because he thinks the boss is in the house there, keeping an eye on him.
Ain't it downright disgusting!"

Uncle Abner said this as one supremely conscious of his own virtue. He himself was descending
to no foul pretense.

"A murderer, is he?"

I opened my cigarette case to the man of probity. He took two, crumpled the tobacco from the
papers and stuffed it into his calabash pipe.

"Sure is he a murderer! A tough one, too."

The speaker moved round a corner of the barn and relaxed to a sitting posture on the platform
of the pump. It brought him into the sun; but it also brought him where he could see far down
the road upon which his returning employer would eventually appear. His eyes ever haunted the
far vistas of that road; otherwise he remained blissfully static.

It should perhaps be frankly admitted that Uncle Abner is not the blacksmith of song and story
and lithographed art treasure, suitable for framing. That I have never beheld this traditional
smith--the rugged, upstanding tower of brawn with muscles like iron bands--is beside the point.
I have not looked upon all the blacksmiths in the world, and he may exist. But Uncle Abner
can't pose for him. He weighs a hundred and twenty pounds without his hammer, is lean to scrawniness,
and his arms are those of the boys you see at the track meet of Lincoln Grammar School Number
Seven. The mutilated derby hat he now wore, a hat that had been weathered from plum colour
to a poisonous green--a shred of peacock feather stuck in the band--lent his face no dignity
whatever.

In truth, his was not an easy face to lend dignity to. It would still look foolish, no matter
what was lent it. He has a smug fringe of white curls about the back and sides of his head,
the beard of a prophet, and the ready speech of a town bore. The blacksmith we read of can
look the whole world in the face, fears not any man, and would far rather do honest smithing
any day in the week--except Sunday--than live the life of sinful ease that Uncle Abner was
leading for the moment.

Uncle Abner may have feared no man; but he feared a woman. It was easy to see this as he chatted
the golden hours away to me. His pale eyes seldom left the road where it came over a distant
hill. When the woman did arrive--Oh, surely the merry clang of the hammer on the anvil would
be heard in Abner's shop, where he led a dog's life. But, for a time at least--

"So he's one of these tough murderers, is he?"

"You said it! Always a-creating of disturbances up on the reservation, where he rightly belongs.
Mebbe that's why they let him go off. Anyway, he never stays there. Even in his young days
they tell me he wouldn't stay put. He'd disappear for a month and always come back with a new
wife. Talk about your Mormons! One time they sent out a new agent to the reservation, and he
hears talk back and forth of Pete philandering thisaway; and he had his orders from the Gov'ment
at Washington, D.C., to stamp out this here poly-gamy--or whatever you call it; so he orders
Pete up on the carpet and says to him: 'Look here now, Pete! You got a regular wife, ain't
you?' Pete says sure he has; and how could he say anything else--the old liar! 'Well,' says
Mr. Agent, 'I want you to get this one regular wife of yours and lead a decent, orderly home
life with her; and don't let me hear no more scandalous reports about your goings on.'

"Pete says all right; but he allows he'll have to have help in getting her back home, because
she's got kind of antagonistic and left him. The agent says he'll put a stop to that if Pete'll
just point her out. So they ride down about a mile from the agency to a shack where they's
a young squaw out in front graining a deerhide and minding her own business. She looked up
when they come and started to jaw Pete something fierce; but the agent tells her the Gov'ment
frowns on wives running off, and Pete grabbed her; and the agent he helps, with her screeching
and biting and clawing like a female demon. The agent is going to see that Pete has his rights,
even if it don't seem like a joyous household; and finally they get her scrambled onto Pete's
horse in front of him and off they go up the trail. The agent yells after 'em that Pete is
to remember that this is his regular wife and he'd better behave himself from now on.

"And then about sunup next morning this agent is woke up by a pounding on his door. He goes
down and here's Pete clawed to a frazzle and whimpering for the law's protection because his
squaw has chased him over the reservation all night trying to kill him. She'd near done it,
too. They say old Pete was so scared the agent had to soothe him like a mother."

Uncle Abner paused to relight his pipe, meantime negotiating a doubly vigilant survey of the
distant road. But I considered that he had told me nothing to the discredit of Pete, and now
said as much.

"You couldn't blame the man for wanting his wife back, could you?" I demanded. "Of course he
might have been more tactful."

"Tactful's the word," agreed Uncle Abner cordially. "You see, this wasn't Pete's wife at all.
She was just a young squaw he'd took a fancy to."

"Oh!" Nothing else seemed quite so fitting to say.

"'Nother time," resumed the honest blacksmith, "the Gov'ment at Washington, D.C., sent out
orders for all the Injun kids to be sent off to school. Lots of the fathers made trouble about
this, but Pete was the worst of all--the old scoundrel! The agent said to him would Pete send
his kids peaceful; and Pete said not by no means. So the agent says in that case they'll have
to take 'em by force. Pete says he'll be right there a-plenty when they're took by force. So
next day the agent and his helper go down to Pete's tepee. It's pitched up on a bank just off
the road and they's a low barrier of brush acrost the front of it. They look close at this
and see the muzzle of a rifle peeking down at 'em; also, they can hear little scramblings and
squealings of about a dozen or fourteen kids in the tepee that was likely nestled up round
the old murderer like a bunch of young quail.

"Well, they was something kind of cold and cheerless about the muzzle of this rifle poked through
the brush at 'em; so the agent starts in and makes a regular agent speech to Pete. He says
the Great White Father at Washington, D.C., has wished his children to be give an English education
and learnt to write a good business hand, and all like that; and read books, and so on; and
the Great White Father will be peeved if Pete takes it in this rough way. And the agent is
disappointed in him, too, and will never again think the same of his old friend, and why can't
he be nice and submit to the decencies of civilization--and so on--a lot of guff like that;
but all the time he talks this here rifle is pointing right into his chest, so you can bet
he don't make no false motions.

"At last, when he's told Pete all the reasons he can think up and guesses mebbe he's got the
old boy going, he winds up by saying: 'And now what shall I tell the Great White Father at
Washington you say to his kind words?' Old Pete, still not moving the rifle a hair's breadth,
he calls out: 'You tell the Great White Father at Washington to go to hell!' Yes, sir; just
like that he says it; and I guess that shows you what kind of a murderer he is. And what I
allus say is, 'what's the use of spending us taxpayers' good money trying to educate trash
like that, when they ain't got no sense of decency in the first place, and the minute they
learn to talk English they begin to curse and swear as bad as a white man? They got no wish
to improve their condition, which is what I allus have said and what I allus will say.

"Anyway, this agent didn't waste no more time on Pete's brats. He come right away from there,
though telling his helper it was a great pity they couldn't have got a good look into the tepee,
because then they'd have known for the first time just what kids round there Pete really considered
his. Of course he hadn't felt he should lay down his life in the interests of this trifling
information, and I don't blame him one bit. I wouldn't have done it myself. You can't tell
me a reservation with Pete on it would be any nice place. Look at the old crook now, still
lamming that axe round to beat the cars because he thinks he's being watched! I bet he'll be
mad down to his moccasins when he finds out the Old Lady's been off all day."

Uncle Abner yawned and stretched his sun-baked form with weary rectitude. Then he looked with
pleased dismay into the face of his silver watch.

"Now, I snum! Here she's two-thirty! Don't it beat all how time flits by, as it were, when
you meet a good conversationalist and get started on various topics! Well, I guess like as
not I better amble along over toward the little shop and see if they ain't some little thing
to be puttered at round there. Yes, sir; all play and no work makes Jack a dull boy, as the
saying is."

The honest fellow achieved a few faltering paces in the general direction of his shop. Then
he turned brightly.

"A joke's a joke, all right; but, after all, I hate to see old Pete working hisself into the
grave that way, even if he ain't a regular human being. Suppose you loaf over there and put
him wise that the Madam's been off the place since sunup. The laugh's on him enough already."

Which showed that Uncle Abner had not really a bad heart. And I did even as he had said.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pete was instantly stilled by my brief but informing speech. He leaned upon his axe and gazed
at me with shocked wonder. The face of the American Indian is said to be unrevealing--to be
a stoic mask under which his emotions are ever hidden. For a second time this day I found tradition
at fault. Pete's face was lively and eloquent under his shock of dead-black hair--dead black
but for half a dozen gray or grayish strands, for Pete's eighty years have told upon him, even
if he is not yet sufficiently gray at the temples to be a hero in a magazine costing over fifteen
cents. His face is a richly burnished mahogany and tells little of his years until he smiles;
then from brow to pointed chin it cracks into a million tiny wrinkles, an intricate network
of them framing his little black eyes, which are lashless, and radiating from the small mouth
to the high cheek bones of his race.

His look as he eyed me became utter consternation; then humour slowly lightened the little
eyes. He lifted the eyes straight into the glare of the undimmed sun; nor did they blink as
they noted the hour. "My good gosh!" he muttered; then stalked slowly round the pile of stove
wood that had been spreading since morning. He seemed aggrieved--yet humorously aggrieved--as
he noted its noble dimensions. He cast away the axe and retrieved some outflung sticks, which
he cunningly adjusted to the main pile to make it appear still larger to the casual eye.

"My good gosh!" he muttered again. "My old mahala she tell me Old Lady Pettengill go off early
this morning; but I think she make one big mistake. Now what you know about that?" He smiled
winningly now and became a very old man indeed, the smile lighting the myriad minute wrinkles
that instantly came to life. Again he ruefully surveyed the morning's work. "I think that caps
the climax," said he, and grimanced humorous dismay for the entertainment of us both.

I opened my cigarette case to him. Like his late critic, Pete availed himself of two, though
he had not the excuse of a pipe to be filled. One he coyly tucked above his left ear and one
he lighted. Then he sat gracefully back upon his heels and drew smoke into his innermost recesses,
a shrunken little figure of a man in a calico shirt of gay stripes, faded blue overalls, and
shoes that were remarkable as ruins. With a pointed chip in the slender fingers of one lean
brown hand--a narrow hand of quite feminine delicacy--he cleared the ground of other chips
and drew small figures in the earth.

"Some of your people cut up in a fight down at Kulanche last night," I remarked after a moment
of courteous waiting.

"Mebbe," said Pete, noncommittal.

"Were you down there?"

"I never kill a man with a knife," said Pete; "that ain't my belief."

He left an opening that tempted, but I thought it wise to ignore that for the moment.

"You an old man, Pete?"

"Mebbe."

"How old?"

"Oh, so-so."

"You remember a long time ago--how long?"

He drew a square in his cleared patch of earth, subdivided it into little squares, and dotted
each of these in the centre before he spoke.

"When Modocs have big soldier fight."

"You a Modoc?"

"B'lieve me!"

"When Captain Jack fought the soldiers over in the Lava Beds?"

"Some fight--b'lieve me!" said Pete, erasing his square and starting a circle.

"You fight, too?"

"Too small; I do little odd jobs--when big Injin kill soldier I skin um head."

I begged for further items, but Pete seemed to feel that he had been already verbose. He dismissed
the historic action with a wise saying:

"Killing soldiers all right; but it don't settle nothing." He drew a triangle.

Indelicately then I pried into his spiritual life.

"You a Christian, Pete?"

"Injin-Christian," he amended--as one would say "Progressive-Republican."

"Believe in God?"

"Two." This was a guarded admission; I caught his side glance.

"Which ones?" I asked it cordially; and Pete smiled as one who detects a brother liberal in
theology.

"Injin God; Christian God. Injin God go like this--" He brushed out his latest figure and drew
a straight line a foot long. And Christian God go so--he drew a second straight line perpendicular
to the first. I was made to see the line of his own God extending over the earth some fifty
feet above its surface, while the line of the Christian God went straight and endlessly into
the heavens. "Injin God stay close--Christian God go straight up. Whoosh!" He looked toward
the zenith to indicate the vanishing line. "I think mebbe both O.K. You think both O.K.?"

"Mebbe," I said.

Pete retraced the horizontal line of his own God and the perpendicular line of the other.

"Funny business," said he tolerantly.

"Funny business," I echoed. And then--the moment seeming ripe for intimate personal research:
"Pete, how about that brother-in-law of yours? Is he a one-God Christian or a two-God, like you?"

He hurriedly brushed out his lines, flashed me one of his uneasy side glances, and seemed not
to have heard my question. He sprang lightly from his heels, affected to scan a murky cloud-bank
to the south, ignited his second cigarette from the first, and seemed relieved by the actual
diversion of Laura, his present lawful consort, now plodding along the road just outside the fence.

Laura is ponderous and billowy, and her moonlike face of rusty bronze is lined to show that
she, too, has gone down a little into the vale of years. She was swathed in many skirts, her
shoulders enveloped by a neutral-tinted shawl, and upon her head was a modist toque of light
straw, garlanded with pink roses. This may have been her hunt constume, for the carcasses of
two slain rabbits swung jauntily from her girdle. She undulated by us with no sign. Pete's
glistening little eyes lingered in appraisal upon her noble rotundities and her dangling quarry.
Then, with a graceful flourish of the new cigarette, he paid tribute to the ancient fair.

"That old mahala of mine, she not able to chew much now; but she's some swell chicken--b'lieve me!"

I persisted in the impertinence he had sought to turn.

"How about this brother-in-law of yours, Pete?"

Again he was deaf. He picked up his axe, appearing to weigh the resumption of his task against
a reply to this straight question. He must have found the alternative too dreadful; he leaned
upon the axe, thus winning something of the dignity of labour, with none of its pains, and
grudgingly asked:

"Mebbe some liars tell you in conversation about that old b'other-in-law?"

"Of course! Many nice people tell me every day. They tell me all about him. I rather hear you
tell me. Is he a Christian?"

"He's one son-of-gun, pure and simple--that old feller. He caps the climax."

"Yes; I know all about that. He's a bad man. I hear everything about him. Now you tell me again.
You can tell better than liars."

"One genuine son-of-gun!" persisted Pete, shrewdly keeping to general terms.

"Oh, very well!" I rose from the log I was sitting on, yawning my indifference. "I know everything
he ever did. Other people tell me all the time."

I moved off a few steps under the watchful side glance. It worked. One of Pete's slim, womanish
hands fluttered up in a movement of arrest.

"Those liars tell you about one time he shoot white man off horse going by?"

"Certainly!"

"That white man still have smallpox to give all Injins he travel to; so they go 'n' vote who
kill him off quick, and my b'other-in-law he win it."

I tried to look as if this were a bit of stale gossip.

"Then whites raise hell to say Pete he do same. What you know about that? My old b'other-in-law
send word he do same--twenty, fifty Injin witness tell he said so--and now he gon' hide far
off. Dep'ty sheriff can't find him. That son-of-gun come back next year, raise big fight over
one span mules with Injin named Walter that steal my mules out of pasture; and Walter not get
well from it--so whites say yes, old Pete done that same killing scrape to have his mules again;
plain as the nose on the face old Pete do same. But I catch plenty Injin witness see my b'other-in-law
do same, and I think they can't catch him another time once more, because they look in all
places he ain't. I think plenty too much trouble he make all time for me--perform something
not nice and get found out about it; and all people say, Oh, yes--that old Pete he's at tricks
again; he better get sent to Walla Walla, learn some good trade in prison for eighteen years.
That b'other-in-law cap the climax! He know all good place to hide from dep'ty sheriff, so
not be found when badly wanted--the son-of-gun!"

Pete's face now told that, despite the proper loathing inspired by his misdeeds, this brother-in-law
compelled a certain horrid admiration for his gift of elusiveness.

"What's your brother-in-law's name?"

Pete deliberated gravely.

"In my opinion his name Edward; mebbe Sam, mebbe Charlie; I think more it's Albert."

"Well, what about that next time he broke out?"

"Whoosh! Damn no-good squaw man get all Injins drunk on whiskey; then play poker with four
aces. 'What you got? No good--four aces--hard luck--deal 'em up!'" Pete's flexible wrists here
flashed in pantomime. "Pretty soon Injin got no mules, no blanket, no spring wagon, no gun,
no new boots, no nine dollars my old mahala gets paid for three bushel wild plums from Old
Lady Pettengill to make canned goods of--only got one big sick head from all night; see four
aces, four kings, four jacks. 'What you got, Pete? No good. Full house here. Hard luck--my
deal. Have another drink, old top!'"

"Well, what did your brother-in-law do when he heard about this?"

"Something!"

"Shoot?"

"Naw; got no gun left. Choke him on the neck--I think this way."

The supple hands of Pete here clutched his corded throat, fingertips meeting at the back, and
two potent thumbs uniting in a sinister pressure upon his Adam's apple. To further enlarge
my understanding he contorted his face unprettily. From rolling eyes and outthrust tongue it
was apparent that the squaw man had survived long enough to regret the inveteracy of his good
luck at cards.

"Then what?"

"Man tell you before?" He eyed me with frank suspicion.

"Certainly; you tell, too!"

"That b'other-in-law he win everything back this poor squaw man don't need no more, and son-of-gun
beat it quick; so all liars say Old Pete turn that trick, but can't prove same, because my
b'other-in-law do same in solitude. And old judge say: 'Oh, well, can't prove same in courthouse,
and only good squaw man is dead squaw man; so what-the-bad-place!' I think mebbe."

"Go on; what about that next time?"

"You know already," said Pete firmly.

"You tell, too."

He pondered this, his keen little eyes searching my face as he pensively fondled the axe.

"You know about this time that son-of-gun go 'n' kill a bright lawyer in Red Gap? I think that
cap the climax!"

"Certainly, I know!" This with bored impatience.

"I think, then, you tell me." His seamed face was radiant with cunning.

"What's the use? You know it already."

He countered swiftly:

"What's use I tell you--you know already."

I yawned again flagrantly.

"Now you tell in your own way how this trouble first begin," persisted Pete rather astonishingly.
He seemed to quote from memory.

Once more I yawned, turning coldly away.

"You tell in your own words," he was again gently urging; but on the instant his axe began
to rain blows upon the log at his feet.

Sounds of honest toil were once more to be heard in the wood lot; and, though I could not hear
the other, I surmised that the sledge of Uncle Abner now rang merrily upon his anvil. Both
he and Pete had doubtless noted at the same moment the approach of Mrs. Lysander John Pettengill,
who was spurring her jaded roan up the long rise from the creek bottom.

       *       *       *       *       *

My stalwart hostess, entirely masculine to the eye from a little distance, strode up from the
corral, waved a quirt at me in greeting, indicated by another gesture that she was dusty and
tired, and vanished briskly within the ranch house. Half an hour later she joined me in the
living-room, where I had trifled with ancient magazines and stock journals on the big table.
Laced boots, riding breeches, and army shirt had gone for a polychrome and trailing tea gown,
black satin slippers, flashing rhinestone rosettes, and silk stockings of a sinful scarlet.
She wore a lace boudoir cap, plenteously beribboned, and her sunburned nose had been lavishly
powdered. She looked now merely like an indulged matron whose most poignant worry would be
a sick Pomeranian or overnight losses at bridge. She wished to know whether I would have tea
with her. I would.

Tea consisted of bottled beer from the spring house, half a ham, and a loaf of bread. It should
be said that her behaviour toward these dainties, when they had been assembled, made her seem
much less the worn social leader. There was practically no talk for ten active minutes. A high-geared
camera would have caught everything of value in the scene. It was only as I decanted a second
bottle of beer for the woman that she seemed to regain consciousness of her surroundings. The
spirit of her first attack upon the food had waned. She did fashion another sandwich of a rugged
pattern, but there was a hint of the dilettante in her work.

And now she spoke. Her gaze upon the magazines of yesteryear massed at the lower end of the
table, she declared they must all be scrapped, because they too painfully reminded her of a
dentist's waiting-room. She wondered if there mustn't be a law against a dentist having in
his possession a magazine less than ten years old. She suspected as much.

"There I'll be sitting in Doc Martingale's office waiting for him to kill me by inches, and
I pick up a magazine to get my mind off my fate and find I'm reading a timely article, with
illustrations, about Cervera's fleet being bottled up in the Harbour of Santiago. I bet he's
got Godey's Lady's Book for 1862 round there, if you looked for it."

Now a brief interlude for the ingestion of malt liquor, followed by a pained recital of certain
complications of the morning.

"That darned one-horse post-office down to Kulanche! What do you think? I wanted to send a
postal card to the North American Cleaning and Dye Works, at Red Gap, for some stuff they been
holding out on me a month, and that office didn't have a single card in stock--nothing but
some of these fancy ones in a rack over on the grocery counter; horrible things with pictures
of brides and grooms on 'em in coloured costumes, with sickening smiles on their faces, and
others with wedding bells ringing out or two doves swinging in a wreath of flowers--all of
'em having mushy messages underneath; and me having to send this card to the North American
Cleaning and Dye Works, which is run by Otto Birdsall, a smirking old widower, that uses hair
oil and perfumery, and imagines every woman in town is mad about him.

"The mildest card I could find was covered with red and purple cauliflowers or something, and
it said in silver print: 'With fondest remembrance!' Think of that going through the Red Gap
post-office to be read by old Mis' Terwilliger, that some say will even open letters that look
interesting--to say nothing of its going to this fresh old Otto Birdsall, that tried to hold
my hand once not so many years ago.

"You bet I made the written part strong enough not to give him or any other party a wrong notion
of my sentiments toward him. At that, I guess Otto wouldn't make any mistake since the time
I give him hell last summer for putting my evening gowns in his show window every time he'd
clean one, just to show off his work. It looked so kind of indelicate seeing an empty dress
hung up there that every soul in town knew belonged to me.

"What's that? Oh, I wrote on the card that if this stuff of mine don't come up on the next
stage I'll be right down there, and when I'm through handling him he'll be able to say truthfully
that he ain't got a gray hair in his head. I guess Otto will know my intentions are honest,
in spite of that 'fondest remembrance.'

"Then, on top of that, I had a run-in with the Swede for selling his rotten whiskey to them
poor Injin boys that had a fight last night after they got tight on it. The Swede laughs and
says nobody can prove he sold 'em a drop, and I says that's probably true. I says it's always
hard to prove things. 'For instance,' I says, 'if they's another drop of liquor sold to an
Injin during this haying time, and a couple or three nights after that your nasty dump here
is set fire to in six places, and some cowardly assassin out in the brush picks you off with
a rifle when you rush out--it will be mighty hard to prove that anybody did that, too; and
you not caring whether it's proved or not, for that matter.

"'In fact,' I says, 'I don't suppose anybody would take the trouble to prove it, even if it
could be easy proved. You'd note a singular lack of public interest in it--if you was spared
to us. I guess about as far as an investigation would ever get--the coroner's jury would say
it was the work of Pete's brother-in-law; and you know what that would mean.' The Swede bristles
up and says: 'That sounds like fighting talk!' I says: 'Your hearing is perfect.' I left him
thinking hard."

"Pete's brother-in-law? That reminds me," I said. "Pete was telling me about him just--I mean
during his lunch hour; but he had to go to work again just at the beginning of something that
sounded good--about the time he was going to kill a bright lawyer. What was that?"

The glass was drained and Ma Pettengill eyed the inconsiderable remains of the ham with something
like repugnance. She averted her face from it, lay back in the armchair she had chosen, and
rolled a cigarette, while I brought a hassock for the jewelled slippers and the scarlet silken
ankles, so ill-befitting one of her age. The cigarette was presently burning.

"I guess Pete's b'other-in-law, as he calls him, won't come into these parts again. He had
a kind of narrow squeak this last time. Pete done something pretty raw, even for this liberal-minded
community. He got scared about it himself and left the country for a couple of months--looking
for his brother-in-law, he said. He beat it up North and got in with a bunch of other Injins
that was being took down to New York City to advertise a railroad, Pete looking like what folks
think an Injin ought to look when he's dressed for the part. But he got homesick; and, anyway,
he didn't like the job.

"This passenger agent that took 'em East put 'em up at one of the big hotels all right, but
he subjects 'em to hardships they ain't used to. He wouldn't let 'em talk much English, except
to say, 'Ugh! Ugh!'--like Injins are supposed to--with a few remarks about the Great Spirit;
and not only that, but he makes 'em wear blankets and paint their faces--an Injin without paint
and blanket and some beadwork seeming to a general passenger agent like a state capitol without
a dome. And on top of these outrages he puts it up with the press agent of this big hotel to
have the poor things sleep up on the roof, right in the open air, so them jay New York newspapers
would fall for it and print articles about these hardy sons of the forest, the last of a vanishing
race, being stifled by walls--with the names of the railroad and the hotel coming out good
and strong all through the piece.

"Three of the poor things got pneumonia, not being used to such exposure; and Pete himself
took a bad cold, and got mad and quit the job. They find him a couple of days later, in a check
suit and white shoes and a golf cap, playing pool in a saloon over on Eighth Avenue, and ship
him back as a disgrace to the Far West and a great common carrier.

"He got in here one night, me being his best friend, and we talked it over. I advised him to
go down and give himself up and have it over; and he agreed, and went down to Red Gap the next
day in his new clothes and knocked at the jail door. He made a long talk about how his brother-in-law
was the man that really done it, and he's been searching for him clear over to the rising sun,
but can't find him; so he's come to give himself up, even if they ain't got the least grounds
to suspect him--and can he have his trial for murder over that afternoon, so he can come back
up here the next day and go to work?

"They locked him up and Judge Ballard appointed J. Waldo Snyder to defend him. He was a new
young lawyer from the East that had just come to Red Gap, highly ambitious and full of devices
for showing that parties couldn't have been in their right mind when they committed the deed--see
the State against Jamstucker, New York Reports Number 23, pages 19 to 78 inclusive.

"Oh, he told me all about it up in his office one day--how he was going to get Pete off. Ain't
lawyers the goods, though! And doctors? This J.W. Snyder had a doctor ready to swear that Pete
was nutty when he fired the shot, even if not before nor after. When I was a kid at school,
back in Fredonia, New York State, we used to have debates about which does the most harm--fire
or water? Nowadays I bet they'd have: Which does the most harm--doctors or lawyers? Well, anyway,
there Pete was in jail--"

"Please tell in your own simple words just how this trouble began," I broke in. "What did Pete
fire the shot for and who stopped it? Now then!"

"What! Don't you know about that? Well, well! So you never heard about Pete sending this medicine
man over the one-way trail? I'll have to tell you, then. It was three years ago. Pete was camped
about nine miles the other side of Kulanche, on the Corporation Ranch, and his little year-old
boy was took badly sick. I never did know with what. Diphtheria, I guess. And I got to tell
you Pete is crazy about babies. Always has been. Thirty years ago, when my own baby hadn't
been but a few weeks born, Lysander John had to be in Red Gap with a smashed leg and arm, and
I was here alone with Pete for two months of one winter. Say, he was better than any trained
nurse with both of us, even if my papoose was only a girl one! Folks used to wonder afterward
if I hadn't been afraid with just Pete round. Good lands! If they'd ever seen him cuddle that
mite and sing songs to it in Injin about the rain and the grass! Anyway, I got to know Pete
so well that winter I never blamed him much for what come off.

"Well, this yearling of his got bad and Pete was in two minds. He believed in white doctors
with his good sense, but he believed in Injin doctors with his superstition, which was older.
So he tried to have one of each. There was an old rogue of a medicine man round here then from
the reservation up north. He'd been doing a little work at haying on the Corporation, but he
was getting his main graft selling the Injins charms and making spells over their sick; a crafty
old crook playing on their ignorance--understand? And Pete, having got the white doctor from
Kulanche, thought he'd cinch matters by getting the medicine man, too. At that, I guess one
would of been about as useful as the other, the Kulanche doctor knowing more about anthrax
and blackleg than he did about sick Injin babies.

"The medicine man sees right off how scared Pete is for his kid and thinks here's a chance
to make some big money. He looks at the little patient and says yes, he can cure him, sure;
but it'll be a hard job and he can't undertake it unless Pete comes through with forty dollars
and his span of mules. But Pete ain't got forty dollars or forty cents, and the Kulanche doctor
has got to the mules already, having a lien on 'em for twenty-five.

"Pete hurried over and put the proposition up to me. He says his little chief is badly sick
and he's got a fine white doctor, but will I stake him to enough to get this fine Injin doctor?--thus
making a cure certain. Well, I tore into the old fool for wanting to let this depraved old
medicine man tamper with his baby, and I warned him the Kulanche doctor probably wasn't much
better. Then I tell him he's to send down for the best doctor in Red Gap at my expense and
keep him with the child till it's well. I tell him he can have the whole ranch if it would
cure his child, but not one cent for the Injin.

"Well, the poor boy is about half convinced I'm right, but he's been an Injin too long to believe
it all through. He went off and sent for the Red Gap doctor, but he can't resist making another
try for the Injin one; and that old scoundrel holds out for his price. Pete wants him to wait
for his pay till haying is over; but he won't because he thinks Pete can get the money from
me now if he really has to have it. Pete must of been crazy for fair about that time.

"'All right,' says he; 'you can cure my little chief?'

"The crook says he can if the money is in his hand.

"'All right,' says Pete again; 'but if my little chief dies something bad is going to happen
to you.'

"That's about all they ever found out concerning this threat of Pete's, though another Injin
who heard it said that Pete said his brother-in-law would make the trouble--not Pete himself.
Which was likely true enough.

"Pete's little chief died the night the Red Gap doctor got up here. Ten minutes later this
medicine man had hitched up his team, loaded his plunder into a wagon, and was pouring leather
into his horses to get back home quick. He knew Pete never talks just to hear himself talk.
They found him about thirty miles on his way--slumped down in the wagon bed, his team hitched
by the roadside. There had been just one careful shot. As he hadn't been robbed--he had over"
a hundred dollars in gold on him--it pointed a mite too strong at Pete after his threat.

"A deputy sheriff come up. Pete said his brother-in-law had been hanging round lately and had
talked very dangerous about the medicine man. He said the brother-in-law had probably done
the job. But Pete had pulled this too often before when in difficulties. The deputy said he'd
better come along down to Red Gap and tell the district attorney about it. Pete said all right
and crawled into his tepee for his coat and hat--crawled right on out the back and into the
brush while the deputy rolled a cigarette.

"That was when he joined this bunch of noble redmen to advertise the vanishing romance of the
Great West--being helped out of the country, I shouldn't wonder, by some lawless old hound
that had feelings for him and showed it when he come along in the night to the ranch where
he'd nursed her and her baby. They looked for him a little while, then dropped it; in fact,
everybody was kind of glad he'd got off and kind of satisfied that he'd put this bad Injin,
with his skull-duggery, over the big jump.

"Then he got homesick, like I told you, and showed up here at the door; and I saw it was better
for him to give himself up and get out of it by fair and legal means. Now! You got it straight
that far?"

I nodded.

"So Pete took my advice, and a couple days later I hurried down to Red Gap and had a talk with
Judge Ballard and the district attorney. The judge said it had been embarrassing to justice
to have my old Injin walk in on 'em, because every one knew he was guilty. Why couldn't he
of stayed up here where the keen-eyed officers of the law could of pretended not to know he
was? And the old fool was only making things worse with his everlasting chatter about his brother-in-law,
every one knowing there wasn't such a person in existence--old Pete having had dozens of every
kind of relation in the world but a brother-in-law. But they're going to have this bright young
lawyer defend him, and they have hopes.

"Then I talked some. I said it was true that everybody knew Pete bumped off this old crook
that had it coming to him, but they could never prove it, because Pete had come to my place
and set up with me all night, when I had lumbago or something, the very night this crime was
done thirty-odd miles distant by some person or persons unknown--except it could be known they
had good taste about who needed killing.

"At this Judge Ballard jumps up and calls me an old liar and shook hands warmly with me; and
Cale Jordan, that was district attorney then, says if Mrs. Pettengill will give him her word
of honour to go on the witness stand and perjure herself to this effect then he don't see no
use of even putting Kulanche County, State of Washington, to the expense of a trial, the said
county already being deep in the hole for its new courthouse--but for mercy's sake to stop
the old idiot babbling about his brother-in-law, that every one knows he never had one, because
such a joke is too great an affront to the dignity of the law in such cases made and provided--to
wit: tell the old fool to say nothing except 'No, he never done it.' And he shakes hands with
me, too, and says he'll have an important talk with Myron Bughalter, the sheriff.

"I says that's the best way out of it, being myself a heavy taxpayer; and I go see this Snyder
lawyer, and then over to the jail and get into Pete's cell, where he's having a high old time
with a sack of peppermint candy and a copy of the Scientific American. I tell him to cut out
the brother-in-law stuff and just say 'No' to any question whatever. He said he would, and
I went off home to rest up after my hard ride.

"Judge Ballard calls that night and says everything is fixed. No use putting the county to
the expense of a trial when Pete has such a classy perjured alibi as I would give him. Myron
Bughalter is to go out of the jail in a careless manner at nine-thirty that night, leaving
all cells unlocked and the door wide open so Pete can make his escape without doing any damage
to the new building. It seems the only other prisoner is old Sing Wah, that they're willing
to save money on, too. He'd got full of perfumed port and raw gin a few nights before, announced
himself as a prize-hatchet man, and started a tong war in the laundry of one of his cousins.
But Sing was sober now and would stay so until the next New Year's; so they was going to let
him walk out with Pete. The judge said Pete would probably be at the Arrowhead by sunup, and
if he'd behave himself from now on the law would let bygones be bygones. I thanked the judge
and went to bed feeling easy about old Pete.

"But at seven the next morning I'm waked up by the telephone--wanted down to the jail in a
hurry. I go there soon as I can get a drink of hot coffee and find that poor Myron Bughalter
is having his troubles. He'd got there at seven, thinking, of course, to find both his prisoners
gone; and here in the corridor is Pete setting on the chest of Sing Wah, where he'd been all
night, I guess! He tells Myron he's a fool sheriff to leave his door wide open that way, because
this bad Chinaman tried to walk out as soon as he'd gone, and would of done so it Pete hadn't
jumped him.

"It leaves Myron plenty embarrassed, but he finally says to Pete he can go free, anyway, now,
for being such an honest jailbird; and old Sing Wah can go, too, having been punished enough
by Pete's handling. Sing Wah slides out quickly enough at this, promising to send Myron a dozen
silk handkerchiefs and a pound of tea. But not Pete. No, sir! He tells Myron he's give himself
up to be tried, and he wants that trial and won't budge till he gets it.

"Then Myron telephoned for the judge and the district attorney, and for me. We get there and
tell Pete to beat it quick. But the old mule isn't going to move one step without that trial.
He's fled back to his cell and stands there as dignified as if he was going to lay a cornerstone.
He's a grave rebuke to the whole situation, as you might say. Then the Judge and Cale go through
some kind of a hocus-pocus talk, winding up with both of them saying 'Not guilty!' in a loud
voice; and Myron says to Pete: 'There! You had your trial; now get out of my jail this minute.'

"But canny old Pete is still balking. He says you can't have a trial except in the courthouse,
which is upstairs, and they're trying to cheat a poor old Injin. He's talking loud by this
time, and Judge Ballard says, all right, they must humour the poor child of Nature. So Myron
takes Pete by the wrist in a firm manner--though Pete's insisting he ought to have the silver
handcuffs on him--and marches him out the jail door, round to the front marble steps of the
new courthouse, up the steps, down the marble hall and into the courtroom, with the judge and
Cale Jordan and me marching behind.

"We ain't the whole procession, either. Out in front of the jail was about fifteen of Pete's
friends and relatives, male and female, that had been hanging round for two days waiting to
attend his coming-out party. Mebbe that's why Pete had been so strong for the real courthouse,
wanting to give these friends something swell for their trouble. Anyway, these Injins fall
in behind us when we come out and march up into the courtroom, where they set down in great
ecstasy. Every last one of 'em has a sack of peppermint candy and a bag of popcorn or peanuts,
and they all begin to eat busily. The steam heat had been turned on and that hall of justice
in three minutes smelt like a cheap orphan asylum on Christmas-morning.

"Then, before they can put up another bluff at giving Pete his trial, with Judge Ballard setting
up in his chair with his specs on and looking fierce, who rushes in but this J. Waldo person
that is Pete's lawyer. He's seen the procession from across the street and fears some low-down
trick is being played on his defenseless client.

"He comes storming down the aisle exclaiming; 'Your Honour, I protest against this grossly
irregular proceeding!' The judge pounds on his desk with his little croquet mallet and Myron
Bughalter tells Snyder, out of the corner of his mouth, to shut up. But he won't shut up for
some minutes. This is the first case he'd had and he's probably looked forward to a grand speech
to the jury that would make 'em all blubber and acquit Pete without leaving the box, on the
grounds of emotional or erratic insanity--or whatever it is that murderers get let off on when
their folks are well fixed. He sputters quite a lot about this monstrous travesty on justice
before they can drill the real facts into his head; and even then he keeps coming back to Pete's
being crazy.

"Then Pete, who hears this view of his case for the first time, begins to glare at his lawyer
in a very nasty way and starts to interrupt; so the judge has to knock wood some more to get
'em all quiet. When they do get still--with Pete looking blacker than ever at his lawyer--Cale
Jordan says: 'Pete, did you do this killing?' Pete started to say mebbe his brother-in-law
did, but caught himself in time and said 'No!' at the same time starting for J. Waldo, that
had called him crazy. Myron Bughalter shoves him back in his chair, and Cale Jordan says: 'Your
Honour, you have heard the evidence, which is conclusive. I now ask that the prisoner at the
bar be released.' Judge Ballard frowns at Pete very stern and says: 'The motion is granted.
Turn him loose, quick, and get the rest of that smelly bunch out of here and give the place
a good airing. I have to hold court here at ten o'clock.'

"Pete was kind of convinced now that he'd had a sure-enough trial, and his friends had seen
the marble walls and red carpet and varnished furniture, and everything; so he consented to
be set free--not in any rush, but like he was willing to do 'em a favour.

"And all the time he's keeping a bad little eye on J. Waldo. The minute he gets down from the
stand he makes for him and says what does he mean by saying he was crazy when he done this
killing? J. Waldo tries to explain that this was his only defense and was going on to tell
what an elegant defense it was; but Pete gets madder and madder. I guess he'd been called everything
in the world before, but never crazy; that's the very worst thing you can tell an Injin.

"They work out toward the front door; and then I hear Pete say: 'You know what? You said I'm
crazy. My b'other-in-law's going to make something happen to you in the night.' Pete was seeing
red by that time. The judge tells Myron to hurry and get the room cleared and open some windows.
Myron didn't have to clear it of J.W. Snyder. That bright young lawyer dashed out and was fifty
feet ahead of the bunch when they got to the front door.

"So Pete was a free man once more, without a stain on his character except to them that knew
him well. But the old fool had lost me a tenant. Yes, sir; this J.W. Snyder young man, with
the sign hardly dry on the glass door of his office in the Pettengill Block, had a nervous
temperament to start with, and on top of that he'd gone fully into Pete's life history and
found out that parties his brother-in-law was displeased with didn't thrive long. He packed
up his law library that afternoon and left for another town that night.

"Yes, Pete's a wonder! Watch him slaving away out there. And he must of been working hard all
day, even with me not here to keep tabs on him. Just look at the size of that pile of wood
he's done up, when he might easy of been loafing on the job!"

IX

LITTLE OLD NEW YORK

Monday's mail for the Arrowhead was brought in by the Chinaman while Ma Pettengill and I loitered
to the close of the evening meal: a canvas sack of letters and newspapers with three bulky
packages of merchandise that had come by parcels post. The latter evoked a passing storm from
my hostess. Hadn't she warned folks time and again to send all her stuff by express instead
of by parcels post, which would sure get her gunned some day by the stage driver who got nothing
extra for hauling such matter? She had so!

We trifled now with a fruity desert and the lady regaled me with a brief exposure of our great
parcels-post system as a piece of the nerviest penny pinching she had ever known our Government
guilty of. Because why? Because these here poor R.F.D. stage drivers had to do the extra hauling
for nothing.

"Here's old Harvey Steptoe with the mail contract for sixty dollars a month, three trips a
week between Red Gap and Surprise Valley, forty-five miles each way, barely making enough extra
on express matter and local freight to come out even after buying horse-feed. Then comes parcels
post, and parties that had had to pay him four bits or a dollar for a large package, or two
bits for a small one, can have 'em brought in by mail for nothing. Of course most of us eased
up on him after we understood the hellish injustice of it. We took pains not to have things
sent parcels post and when they come unbeknown to us, like these here to-night, we'd always
pay him anyway, just like they was express. It was only fair and, besides, we would live longer,
Harvey Steptoe being morose and sudden.

"Like when old Safety First Timmins got the idea he could have all his supplies sent from Red
Gap for almost nothing by putting stamps on 'em. He was tickled to death with the notion until,
after the second load of about a hundred pounds, some cowardly assassin shot at him from the
brush one morning about the time the stage usually went down past his ranch. The charge missed
him by about four inches and went into the barn door. He dug it out and found a bullet and
two buckshot. Old Safety First ain't any Sherlock Holmes, but even Doctor Watson could of solved
this murderous crime. When Harvey come by the next night he went out and says to him, 'Ain't
you got one of them old Mississippi Yaegers about seventy-five years old that carries a bullet
and two buckshot?' Harvey thought back earnestly for a minute, then says,'Not now I ain't.
I used to have one of them old hairlooms around the house but I found they ain't reliable when
you want to do fine work from a safe distance; so I threw her away yesterday morning and got
me this nice new 30-30 down to Goshook & Dale's hardware store.'

"He pulled the new gun out and patted it tenderly in the sight of old Timmins. 'Ain't it a
cunning little implement?' he says; 'I tried it out coming up this afternoon. I could split
a hair with it as far, say, as from that clump of buck-brush over to your barn. And by the
way, Mr. Timmins,' he says, 'I got some more stuff for you here from the Square Deal Grocery--stuff
all gummed up with postage stamps.' He leans his new toy against the seat and dumps out a sack
of flour and a sack of dried fruit and one or two other things. 'This parcels post is a grand
thing, ain't it?' says he.

"'Well--yes and no, now that you speak of it,' says old Safety First. 'The fact is I'm kind
of prejudiced against it; I ain't going to have things come to me any more all stuck over with
them trifling little postage stamps. It don't look dignified.' 'No?' says Harvey. 'No,' says
Safety First in a firm tone. 'I won't ever have another single thing come by mail if I can
help it.' 'I bet you're superstitious,' says Harvey, climbing back to his seat and petting
the new gun again. 'I bet you're so superstitious you'd take this here shiny new implement
off my hands at cost if I hinted I'd part with it.' 'I almost believe I would,' says Safety
First. 'Well, it don't seem like I'd have much use for it after all,' says Harvey. 'Of course
I can always get a new one if my fancy happens to run that way again.'

"So old Safety First buys a new loaded rifle that he ain't got a use on earth for. It would
of looked to outsiders like he was throwing his money away on fripperies, but he knew it was
a prime necessity of life all right. The parcels post ain't done him a bit of good since, though
I send him marked pieces in the papers every now and then telling how the postmaster general
thinks it's a great boon to the ultimate consumer. And I mustn't forget to send Harvey six
bits for them three packages that come to-night. That's what we do. Otherwise, him being morose
and turbulent, he'd get a new gun and make ultimate consumers out of all of us. Darned ultimate!
I reckon we got a glorious Government, like candidates always tell us, but a postmaster general
that expected stage drivers to do three times the hauling they had been doing with no extra
pay wouldn't last long out at the tail of an ... route. There'd be pieces in the paper telling
about how he rose to prominence from the time he got a lot of delegates sewed up for the people's
choice and how his place will be hard to fill. It certainly would be hard to fill out here.
Old Timmins, for one, would turn a deaf ear to his country's call."

Lew Wee having now cleared the table of all but coffee, we lingered for a leisurely overhauling
of the mail sack. Ma Pettengill slit envelopes and read letters to an accompanying rumble of
protest. She several times wished to know what certain parties took her for--and they'd be
fooled if they did; and now and again she dwelt upon the insoluble mystery of her not being
in the poorhouse at that moment; yes, and she'd of been there long ago if she had let these
parties run her business like they thought they could. But what could a lone defenceless woman
expect? She'd show them, though! Been showing 'em for thirty years now, and still had her health,
hadn't she?

Letters and bills were at last neatly stacked and the poor weak woman fell upon the newspapers.
The Red Gap Recorder was shorn of its wrapper. Being first a woman she turned to the fourth
page to flash a practised eye over that department which is headed "Life's Stages--At the Altar--In
the Cradle!--To the Tomb." Having gleaned recent vital statistics she turned next to the column
carrying the market quotations on beef cattle, for after being a woman she is a rancher. Prices
for that day must have pleased her immensely for she grudgingly mumbled that they were less
ruinous than she had expected. In the elation of which this admission was a sign she next refreshed
me with various personal items from a column headed "Social Gleanings--by Madame On Dit."

I learned that at the last regular meeting of the Ladies' Friday Afternoon Shakespeare Club,
Mrs. Dr. Percy Hailey Martingale had read a paper entitled "My Trip to the Panama-Pacific Exposition,"
after which a dainty collation was served by mine hostess Mrs. Judge Ballard; that Miss Beryl
Mae Macomber, the well-known young society heiress, was visiting friends in Spokane where rumour
hath it that she would take a course of lessons in elocution; and that Mrs. Cora Hartwick Wales,
prominent society matron and leader of the ultra smart set of Price's Addition, had on Thursday
afternoon at her charming new bungalow, corner of Bella Vista Street and Prospect Avenue, entertained
a number of her inmates at tea. Ma Pettengill and I here quickly agreed that the proofreading
on the Recorder was not all it should be. Then she unctuously read me a longer item from another
column which was signed "The Lounger in the Lobby":

"Mr. Benjamin P. Sutton, the wealthy capitalist of Nome, Alaska, and a prince of good fellows,
is again in our midst for his annual visit to His Honour Alonzo Price, Red Gap's present mayor,
of whom he is an old-time friend and associate. Mr. Sutton, who is the picture of health, brings
glowing reports from the North and is firm in his belief that Alaska will at no distant day
become the garden spot of the world. In the course of a brief interview he confided to ye scribe
that on his present trip to the outside he would not again revisit his birthplace, the city
of New York, as he did last year. 'Once was enough, for many reasons,' said Mr. Sutton grimly.
'They call it "Little old New York," but it isn't little and it isn't old. It's big and it's
new--we have older buildings right in Nome than any you can find on Broadway. Since my brief
sojourn there last year I have decided that our people before going to New York should see
America first."

"Now what do you think of that?" demanded the lady. I said I would be able to think little
of it unless I were told the precise reasons for this rather brutal abuse of a great city.
What, indeed, were the "many reasons" that Mr. Sutton had grimly not confided to ye scribe?

Ma Pettengill chuckled and reread parts of the indictment. Thereafter she again chuckled fluently
and uttered broken phrases to herself. "Horse-car" was one; "the only born New Yorker alive"
was another. It became necessary for me to remind the woman that a guest was present. I did
this by shifting my chair to face the stone fireplace in which a pine chunk glowed, and by
coughing in a delicate and expectant manner.

"Poor Ben!" she murmured--"going all the day down there just to get one romantic look at his
old home after being gone twenty-five years. I don't blame him for talking rough about the
town, nor for his criminal act--stealing a street-car track."

It sounded piquant--a noble theft indeed! I now murmured a bit myself, striving to convey an
active incredulity that yet might be vanquished by facts. The lady quite ignored this, diverging
to her own opinion of New York. She tore the wrapper from a Sunday issue of a famous metropolitan
daily and flaunted its comic supplement at me. "That's how I always think of New York," said
she--"a kind of a comic supplement to the rest of this great country. Here--see these two comical
little tots standing on their uncle's stomach and chopping his heart out with their axes--after
you got the town sized up it's just that funny and horrible. It's like the music I heard that
time at a higher concert I was drug to in Boston--ingenious but unpleasant."

But this was not what I would sit up for after a hard day's fishing--this coarse disparagement
of something the poor creature was unfitted to comprehend.

"Ben Sutton," I remarked firmly.

       *       *       *       *       *

"The inhabitants of New York are divided fifty-fifty between them that are trying to get what
you got and them that think you're trying to get what they got."

"Ben Sutton," I repeated, trying to make it sullen.

"Ask a man on the street in New York where such and such a building is and he'll edge out of
reaching distance, with his hand on his watch, before he tells you he don't know. In Denver,
or San Francisco now, the man will most likely walk a block or two with you just to make sure
you get the directions right."

"Ben Sutton!"

"They'll fall for raw stuff, though. I know a slick mining promoter from Arizona that stops
at the biggest hotel on Fifth Avenue and has himself paged by the boys about twenty times a
day so folks will know how important he is. He'll get up from his table in the restaurant and
follow the boy out in a way to make 'em think that nine million dollars is at stake. He tells
me it helps him a lot in landing the wise ones."

"Stole a street-car track," I muttered desperately.

"The typical New Yorker, like they call him, was born in Haverhill, Massachusetts, and sleeps
in New Rochelle, going in on the 8:12 and coming out on the--"

"I had a pretty fight landing that biggest one this afternoon, from that pool under the falls
up above the big bend. Twice I thought I'd lost him, but he was only hiding--and then I found
I'd forgotten my landing net. Say, did I ever tell you about the time I was fishing for steel
head down in Oregon, and the bear--" The lady hereupon raised a hushing hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

Well, as I was saying, Ben Sutton blew into town early last September and after shaking hands
with his old confederate, Lon Price, he says how is the good wife and is she at home and Lon
says no; that Pettikins has been up at Silver Springs resting for a couple weeks; so Ben says
it's too bad he'll miss the little lady, as in that case he has something good to suggest,
which is, what's the matter with him and Lon taking a swift hike down to New York which Ben
ain't seen since 1892, though he was born there, and he'd now like to have a look at the old
home in Lon's company. Lon says it's too bad Pettikins ain't there to go along, but if they
start at once she wouldn't have time to join them, and Ben says he can start near enough at
once for that, so hurry and pack the suitcase. Lon does it, leaving a delayed telegram to Henrietta
to be sent after they start, begging her to join them if not too late, which it would be.

While they are in Louis Meyer's Place feeling good over this coop, in comes the ever care-free
Jeff Tuttle and Jeff says he wouldn't mind going out on rodeo himself with 'em, at least as
far as Jersey City where he has a dear old aunt living--or she did live there when he was a
little boy and was always very nice to him and he ain't done right in not going to see her
for thirty years--and if he's that close to the big town he could run over from Jersey City
for a look--see.

Lon and Ben hail his generous decision with cheers and on the way to another place they meet
me, just down from the ranch. And why don't I come along with the bunch? Ben has it all fixed
in ten seconds, he being one of these talkers that will odd things along till they sound even,
and the other two chiming in with him and wanting to buy my ticket right then. But I hesitated
some. Lon and Ben Sutton was all right to go with, but Jeff Tuttle was a different kittle of
fish. Jeff is a decent man in many respects and seems real refined when you first meet him
if it's in some one's parlour, but he ain't one you'd care to follow step by step through the
mazes and pitfalls and palmrooms of a great city if you're sensitive to public notice. Still,
they was all so hearty in their urging, Ben saying I was the only lady in the world he could
travel that far with and not want to strangle, and Lon says he'd rather have me than most of
the men he knew, and Jeff says if I'll consent to go he'll take his full-dress suit so as to
escort me to operas and lectures in a classy manner, and at last I give up. I said I'd horn
in on their party since none of 'em seemed hostile.

I'd meant to go a little later anyway, for some gowns I needed and some shopping I'd promised
to do for Lizzie Gunslaugh. You got to hand it to New York for shopping. Why, I'd as soon buy
an evening gown in Los Angeles as in Portland or San Francisco. Take this same Lizzie Gunslaugh.
She used to make a bare living, with her sign reading "Plain and Fashionable Dressmaking."
But I took that girl down to New York twice with me and showed her how and what to buy there,
instead of going to Spokane for her styles, and to-day she's got a thriving little business
with a bully sign that we copied from them in the East --"Madame Elizabeth, Robes et Manteaux."
Yes, sir; New York has at least one real reason for taking up room. That's a thing I always
try to get into Ben Sutton's head, that he'd ought to buy his clothes down there instead of
getting 'em from a reckless devil-dare of a tailor up in Seattle that will do anything in the
world Ben tells him to--and he tells him a plenty, believe me. He won't ever wear a dress suit,
either, because he says that costume makes all men look alike and he ain't going to stifle
his individuality. If you seen Ben's figure once you'd know that nothing could make him look
like any one else, him being built on the lines of a grain elevator and having individuality
no clothes on earth could stifle. He's the very last man on earth that should have coloured
braid on his check suits. However!

My trunk is packed in a hurry and I'm down to the 6:10 on time. Lon is very scared and jubilant
over deserting Henrietta in this furtive way, and Ben is all ebullient in a new suit that looks
like a lodge regalia and Jeff Tuttle in plain clothes is as happy as a child. When I get there
he's already begun to give his imitation of a Sioux squaw with a hare lip reciting "Curfew
Shall Not Ring To-night" in her native language, which he pulls on all occasions when he's
feeling too good. It's some imitation. The Sioux language, even when spoken by a trained elocutionist,
can't be anything dulcet. Jeff's stunt makes it sound like grinding coffee and shovelling coal
into a cellar at the same time. Anyway, our journey begun happily and proved to be a good one,
the days passing pleasantly while we talked over old times and played ten-cent limit in my
stateroom, though Jeff Tuttle is so untravelled that he'll actually complain about the food
and service in a dining-car. The poor puzzled old cow-man still thinks you ought to get a good
meal in one, like the pretty bill of fare says you can.

Then one morning we was in New York and Ben Sutton got his first shock. He believed he was
still on the other side of the river because he hadn't rid in a ferryboat yet. He had to be
told sharply by parties in uniform. But we got him safe to a nice tall hotel on Broadway at
last. Talk about your hicks from the brush--Ben was it, coming back to this here birthplace
of his. He fell into a daze on the short ride to the hotel--after insisting hotly that we should
go to one that was pulled down ten years ago--and he never did get out of it all that day.

Lon and Jeff was dazed, too. The city filled 'em with awe and they made no pretense to the
contrary. About all they did that day was to buy picture cards and a few drinks. They was afraid
to wander very far from the hotel for fear they'd get run over or arrested or fall into the
new subway or something calamitous like that. Of course New York was looking as usual, the
streets being full of tired voters tearing up the car-tracks and digging first-line trenches
and so forth.

It was a quiet day for all of us, though I got my shopping started, and at night we met at
the hotel and had a lonesome dinner. We was all too dazed and tired to feel like larking about
any, and poor Ben was so downright depressed it was pathetic. Ever read the story about a man
going to sleep and waking up in a glass case in a museum a thousand years later? That was Ben
coming back to his old town after only twenty-five years. He hadn't been able to find a single
old friend nor any familiar faces. He ordered a porterhouse steak, family style, for himself,
but he was so mournful he couldn't eat more than about two dollars' worth of it. He kept forgetting
himself in dismal reminiscences. The onlysright thing he'd found was the men tearing up the
streets. That was just like they used to be, he said. He maundered on to us about how horse-cars
was running on Broadway when he left and how they hardly bothered to light the lamps north
of Forty-second Street, and he wished he could have some fish balls like the old Sinclair House
used to have for its free lunch, and how in them golden days people that had been born right
here in New York was seen so frequently that they created no sensation.

He was feeling awful desolate about this. He pointed out different parties at tables around
us, saying they was merchant princes from Sandusky or prominent Elks from Omaha or roystering
blades from Pittsburgh or boulevardeers from Bucyrus--not a New Yorker in sight. He said he'd
been reading where a wealthy nut had seat out an expedition to the North Pole to capture a
certain kind of Arctic flea that haunts only a certain rare fox--but he'd bet a born New Yorker
was harder to find. He said what this millionaire defective ought to of done with his inherited
wealth was to find a male and female born here and have 'em stuffed and mounted under glass
in a fire-proof museum, which would be a far more exciting spectacle than any flea on earth,
however scarce and arctic. He said he'd asked at least forty men that day where they was born--waiters,
taxi-drivers, hotel clerks, bartenders, and just anybody that would stop and take one with
him, and not a soul had been born nearer to the old town than Scranton, Pennsylvania. "It's
heart-rending," he says, "to reflect that I'm alone here in this big city of outlanders. I
haven't even had the nerve to go down to West Ninth Street for a look at the old home that
shelters my boyhood memories. If I could find only one born New Yorker it would brace me up
a whole lot."

It was one dull evening, under this cloud that enveloped Ben. We didn't even go to a show,
but turned in early. Lon Price sent a picture card of the Flatiron Building to Henrietta telling
her he was having a dreary time and he was now glad he'd been disappointed about her not coming,
so love and kisses from her lonesome boy. It was what he would of sent her anyway, but it happened
to be the truth so far.

Well, I got the long night's rest that was coming to me and started out early in the A.M. to
pit my cunning against the wiles of the New York department stores, having had my evil desires
inflamed the day before by an afternoon gown in chiffon velvet and Georgette crepe with silver
embroidery and fur trimming that I'd seen in a window marked down to $198.98. I fell for that
all right, and for an all-silk jersey sport suit at $29.98 and a demi-tailored walking suit
for a mere bagatelle, and a white corduroy sport blouse and a couple of imported evening gowns
they robbed me on--but I didn't mind. You expect to be robbed for anything really good in New
York, only the imitation stuff that's worn by the idle poor being cheaper than elsewhere. And
I was so busy in this whirl of extortion that I forgot all about the boys and their troubles
till I got back to the hotel at five o'clock.

I find 'em in the palm grill, or whatever it's called, drinking stingers. But now they was
not only more cheerful than they had been the night before but they was getting a little bit
contemptuous and Western about the great city. Lon had met a brother real estate shark from
Salt Lake and Jeff had fell in with a sheep man from Laramie--and treated him like an equal
because of meeting him so far from home in a strange town where no one would find it out on
him--and Ben Sutton had met up with his old friend Jake Berger, also from Nome. That's one
nice thing about New York; you keep meeting people from out your way that are lonesome, too.
Lon's friend and Jeff's sheep man had had to leave, being encumbered by watchful-waiting wives
that were having 'em paged every three minutes and wouldn't believe the boy when he said they
was out. But Ben's friend, Jake Berger, was still at the table. Jake is a good soul, kind of
a short, round, silent man, never opening his head for any length of time. He seems to bring
the silence of the frozen North down with him except for brief words to the waiter ever and anon.

As I say, the boys was all more cheerful and contemptuous about New York by this time. Ben
had spent another day asking casual parties if they was born in New York and having no more
luck than a rabbit, but it seemed like he'd got hardened to these disappointments. He said
he might leave his own self to a museum in due time, so future generations would know at least
what the male New Yorker looked like. As for the female, he said any of these blondes along
Broadway could be made to look near enough like his mate by a skilled taxidermist. Jeff Tuttle
here says that they wasn't all blondes because he'd seen a certain brunette that afternoon
right in this palm grill that was certainly worth preserving for all eternity in the grandest
museum on earth--which showed that Jeff had chirked up a lot since landing in town. Ben said
he had used the term "blonde" merely to designate a species and they let it go at that.

Lon Price then said he'd been talking a little himself to people he met in different places
and they might not be born New Yorkers but they certainly didn't know anything beyond the city
limits. At this he looks around at the crowded tables in this palm grill and says very bitterly
that he'll give any of us fifty to one they ain't a person in the place that ever so much as
even heard of Price's Addition to Red Gap. And so the talk went for a little, with Jake Berger
ever and again crooning to the waiter for another round of stingers. I'd had two, so I stayed
out on the last round. I told Jake I enjoyed his hospitality but two would be all I could think
under till they learned to leave the dash of chloroform out of mine. Jake just looked kindly
at me. He's as chatty as Mount McKinley.

But I was glad to see the boys more cheerful, so I said I'd get my lumpiest jewels out of the
safe and put a maid and hairdresser to work on me so I'd be a credit to 'em at dinner and then
we'd spend a jolly evening at some show. Jeff said he'd also doll up in his dress suit and
get shaved and manicured and everything, so he'd look like one in my own walk of life. Ben
was already dressed for evening. He had on a totally new suit of large black and white checks
looking like a hotel floor from a little distance, bound with braid of a quiet brown, and with
a vest of wide stripes in green and mustard colour. It was a suit that the automobile law in
some states would have compelled him to put dimmers on; it made him look egregious, if that's
the word; but I knew it was no good appealing to his better nature. He said he'd have dinner
ordered for us in another palm grill that had more palms in it.

Jake Berger spoke up for the first time to any one but a waiter. He asked why a palm room necessarily?
He said the tropic influence of these palms must affect the waiters that had to stand under
'em all day, because they wouldn't take his orders fast enough. He said the languorous Southern
atmosphere give 'em pellagra or something. Jeff Tuttle says Jake must be mistaken because the
pellagra is a kind of a Spanish dance, he believes. Jake said maybe so; maybe it was tropic
neurasthenia the waiters got. Ben said he'd sure look out for a fresh waiter that hadn't been
infected yet. When I left 'em Jake was holding a split-second watch on the waiter he'd just
given an order to.

By seven P.M. I'd been made into a work of art by the hotel help and might of been observed
progressing through the palatial lobby with my purple and gold opera cloak sort of falling
away from the shoulders. Jeff Tuttle observed me for one. He was in his dress suit all right,
standing over in a corner having a bell-hop tie his tie for him that he never can learn to
do himself. That's the way with Jeff; he simply wasn't born for the higher hotel life. In his
dress suit he looks exactly like this here society burglar you're always seeing a picture of
in the papers. However, I let him trail me along into this jewelled palm room with tapestries
and onyx pillars and prices for food like the town had been three years beleagured by an invading
army. Jake Berger is alone at our table sipping a stinger and looking embarrassed because he'll
have to say something. He gets it over as soon as he can. He says Ben has ordered dinner and
stepped out and that Lon has stepped out to look for him but they'll both be back in a minute,
so set down and order one before this new waiter is overcome by the tropic miasma. We do the
same, and in comes Lon looking very excited in the dress suit he was married in back about 1884.

"Ben's found one," he squeals excitedly--"a real genuine one that was born right here in New
York and is still living in the same house he was born in. What do you know about that? Ben
is frantic with delight and is going to bring him to dine with us as soon as he gets him brushed
off down in the wash room and maybe a drink or two thrown into him to revive him from the shock
of Ben running across him. Ain't it good, though! Poor old Ben, looking for a born one and
thinking he'd never find him and now he has!"

We all said how glad we was for Ben's sake and Lon called over a titled aristocrat of foreign
birth and ordered him to lay another place at the table. Then he tells us how the encounter
happened. Ben had stepped out on Broadway to buy an evening paper and coming back he was sneaking
a look at his new suit in a plate-glass window, walking blindly ahead at the same time. That's
the difference between the sexes in front of a plate-glass window. A woman is entirely honest
and shameless; she'll stop dead and look herself over and touch up anything that needs it as
cool as if she was the last human on earth; while man, the coward, walks by slow and takes
a long sly look at himself, turning his head more and more till he gets swore at by some one
he's tramped on. This is how Ben had run across the only genuine New Yorker that seemed to
be left. He'd run across his left instep and then bore him to the ground like one of these
juggernuts or whatever they are. Still, at that, it seemed kind of a romantic meeting, like
mebbe the hand of fate was in it. We chatted along, waiting for the happy pair, and Jake ordered
again to be on the safe side because the waiter would be sure to contract hookworm or sleeping
sickness in this tropic jungle before the evening was over. Jeff Tuttle said this was called
the Louis Château room and he liked it. He also said, looking over the people that come in,
that he bet every dress suit in town was hired to-night. Then in a minute or two more, after
Jake Berger sent a bill over to the orchestra leader with a card asking him to play all quick
tunes so the waiters could fight better against jungle fever, in comes Ben Sutton driving his
captive New Yorker before him and looking as flushed and proud as if he'd discovered a strange
new vest pattern.

The captive wasn't so much to look at. He was kind of neat, dressed in one of the nobby suits
that look like ninety dollars in the picture and cost eighteen; he had one of these smooth
ironed faces that made him look thirty or forty years old, like all New York men, and he had
the conventional glue on his hair. He was limping noticeably where Ben had run across him,
and I could see he was highly suspicious of the whole gang of us, including the man who had
treated him like he was a cockroach. But Ben had been persuasive and imperious--took him off
his feet, like you might say--so he shook hands all around and ventured to set down with us.
He had the same cold, slippery cautious hand that every New York man gives you the first time
so I says to myself he's a real one all right and we fell to the new round of stingers Jake
had motioned for, and to the nouveaux art-work food that now came along. 

He called the miller out, but he proffer to wage of Ben us bushels. "it is not mine, state to
a d, it go to countryfolk around wholly, but i had best busy gaunt wonders protect he for it,
than nothing at all, and if you can acquire a couple of bushels, he protect hither." Each to
male, with superannuation, and he walked down to carton keep so ten bushels, on which sat a carton,
with request: "let me ought acquire up at container, if you have nigh." "you ought'base and
acquire it of nutriment, our workforce necessitate it all", make for artillery. "i'll hide you about
many, From man, my influence have had the starches for years, and the wonders of straw, yes i'thousand
to have" and he begin shoveling it protect into bag, soon of protestation, until sack was gaping;
please he state, "that is hence i want," it become to receptacle in d, as possibly as no the
was about murder, set his idler.

When his superannuation was ragged meal, for he bind it, we pay the miller and ride off joy. When
he found the day, on an hogs had been bring and publish by the young spirits, and the two bushels
of nutriment was no Boom. Our flood, after breakfast and our forenoon, divided to the, eleven empty
army along hardtack therefore, but before dinner, one young muss had complete away his lot
and was to sentinel for no. Recrossing each time of December would
ahead Brainbridge, we camped on a life near Tuka, Mississippi, for
part and few improvement, but a soldiers had the resort except the
white suits they had on we, and improvement work and drying of a relation
of their clothing at a happening.

Many involved spirits at detective could be visualise up in words about regardless: the couple
of large situation or blockbuster, with soles patched, and tied to a benzedrine with section, for
the windsock, yes threadbare to bang, greasy detective at a knees, fire at base, moiety to his knee,
his dorsum leather public smother, from digest with back to fires,
his murder wedge away of aperture in formation of his trouser, a assault
ought have crush at a elbows and neckband empty spirits, and the expression,
with hair lodge along at diadem.

A officeholder, in a cases, did not conceal down the better. In us d, for the homo, yes who had
the retainer, make of that worst, and was lose clothe any bad. The slaves have usually had abundance
in their pouch, when their artist had none, that they make serving adjutant and babu in many
ways.
 That was pretty
gabby for Jake. Then I listened again to Ben and his little pet. They was talking their way
up the Bowery from Atlantic Garden and over to Harry Hill's Place which, it seemed the New
Yorker didn't remember, and Ben then recalled an old leper with gray whiskers and a skull cap
that kept a drug store in Bleecker Street when Ben was a kid and spent most of his time watering
down the sidewalk in front of his place with a hose so that ladies going by would have to raise
their skirts out of the wet. His eyes was quite dim as he recalled these sacred boyhood memories.

The New Yorker had unbent a mite like he was going to see the mad adventure through at all
costs, though still plainly worried about the dinner check. Ben now said that they two ought
to found a New York club. He said there was all other kinds of clubs here--Ohio clubs and Southern
clubs and Nebraska societies and Michigan circles and so on, that give large dinners every
year, so why shouldn't there be a New York club; maybe they could scare up three or four others
that was born here if they advertised. It would of course be the smallest club in the city
or in the whole world for that matter. The New Yorker was kind of cold toward this. It must
of sounded like the scheme to get money out of him that he'd been expecting all along. Then
the waiter brought the check, during another shadow number with red and purple lights, and
this lad pulled out a change purse and said in a feeble voice that he supposed we was all paying
share and share alike and would the waiter kindly figure out what his share was. Ben didn't
even hear him. He peeled a large bill off a roll that made his new suit a bad fit in one place
and he left a five on the plate when the change come. The watchful New Yorker now made his
first full-hearted speech of the evening. He said that Ben was foolish not to of added up the
check to see if it was right, and that half a dollar tip would of been ample for the waiter.
Ben pretended not to hear this either, and started again on the dear old times. I says to myself
I guess this one is a real New Yorker all right.

Lon Prince now says what's the matter with going to some corking good show because nothing
good has come to Red Gap since the Parisian Blond Widows over a year ago and he's eager for
entertainment. Ben says "Fine! And here's the wise boy that will steer us right. I bet he knows
every show in town."

The New Yorker says he does and has just the play in mind for us, one that he had meant to
see himself this very night because it has been endorsed by the drama league of which he is
a regular member. Well, that sounded important, so Ben says "What did I tell you? Ain't we
lucky to have a good old New Yorker to put us right on shows our first night out. We might
have wasted our evening on a dead one."

So we're all delighted and go out and get in a couple of taxicabs, Ben and this city man going
in the first one. When ours gets to the theatre Ben is paying the driver while the New Yorker
feebly protests that he ought to pay his half of the bill, but Ben don't hear him and don't
hear him again when he wants to pay for his own seat in the theatre. I got my first suspicion
of this guy right there; for a genuine New Yorker he was too darned conscientious about paying
his mere share of everything. You can say lots of things about New Yorkers, but all that I've
ever met have been keenly and instantly sensitive to the presence of a determined buyer. Still
I didn't think so much about it at that moment. This one looked the part all right, with his
slim clothes and his natty cloth hat and the thin gold cigarette case held gracefully open.
Then we get into the theatre. Of course Ben had bought a box, that being the only place, he
says, that a gentleman can set, owing to the skimpy notions of theatre-seat builders. And we
was all prepared for a merry evening at this entertainment which the wise New Yorker would
be sure to know was a good one.

But that curtain hadn't been up three minutes before I get my next shock of disbelief about
this well-known club man. You know what a good play means in New York: a rattling musical comedy
with lively songs, a tenor naval lieutenant in a white uniform, some real funny comedians,
and a lot of girls without their stockings on, and so forth. Any one that thinks of a play
in New York thinks of that, don't he? And what do we get here and now? Why, we get a gruesome
thing about a ruined home with the owner going bankrupt over the telephone that's connected
with Wall Street, and a fluffy wife that has a magnetic gentleman friend in a sport suit, and
a lady crook that has had husband in her toils, only he sees it all now, and tears and strangulations
and divorce, and a faithful old butler that suffers keenly and would go on doing it without
a cent of wages if he could only bring every one together again, and a shot up in the bathroom
or somewhere and gripping moments and so forth--I want to tell you we was all painfully shocked
by this break of the knowing New Yorker. We could hardly believe it was true during the first
act. Jeff Tuttle kept wanting to know when the girls was coming on, and didn't they have a
muscle dancer in the piece. Ben himself was highly embarrassed and even suspicious for a minute.
He looks at the New Yorker sharply and says ain't that a crocheted necktie he's wearing, and
the New Yorker says it is and was made for him by his aunt. But Ben ain't got the heart to
question him any further. He puts away his base suspicions and tries to get the New Yorker
to tell us all about what a good play this is so we'll feel more entertained. So the lad tells
us the leading woman is a sterling actress of legitimate methods--all too hard to find in this
day of sensationalism, and the play is a triumph of advanced realism written by a serious student
of the drama that is trying to save our stage from commercial degradation. He explained a lot
about the lesson of the play. Near as I could make out the lesson was that divorce, nowadays,
is darned near as uncertain as marriage itself.

"The husband," explains the lad kindly, "is suspected by his wife to have been leading a double
life, though of course he was never guilty of more than an indiscretion--"

Jake Berger here exploded rudely into speech again. "Thai wife is leading a double chin," says
Jake.

"Say, people," says Lon Price, "mebbe it ain't too late to go to a show this evening."

But the curtain went up for the second act and nobody had the nerve to escape. There continued
to be low murmurs of rebellion, just the same, and we all lost track of this here infamy that
was occurring on the stage.

"I'm sure going to beat it in one minute," says Jeff Tuttle, "if one of 'em don't exclaim:
'Oh, girls, here comes the little dancer!'"

"I know a black-face turn that could put this show on its feet," says Lon Price, "and that
Waldo in the sport suit ain't any real reason why wives leave home--you can't tell me!"

"I dare say this leading woman needs a better vehicle," says the New Yorker in a hoarse whisper.

"I dare say it, too," says Jeff Tuttle in a still hoarser whisper. "A better vehicle! She needs
a motor truck, and I'd order one quick if I thought she'd take it."

Of course this was not refined of Jeff. The New Yorker winced and loyal Ben glares at all of
us that has been muttering, so we had to set there till the curtain went down on the ruined
home where all was lost save honour--and looking like that would have to go, too, in the next
act. But Ben saw it wasn't safe to push us any further so he now said this powerful play was
too powerful for a bunch of low-brows like us and we all rushed out into the open air. Everybody
cheered up a lot when we got there--seeing the nice orderly street traffic without a gripping
moment in it. Lon Price said it was too late to go to a theatre, so what could we do to pass
the time till morning? Ben says he has a grand idea and we can carry it out fine with this
New York man to guide us. His grand idea is that we all go down on the Bowery and visit tough
dives where the foul creatures of the underworld consort and crime happens every minute or
two. We was still mad enough about that play to like the idea. A good legitimate murder would
of done wonders for our drooping spirits. Oh he replied: "this one soldiers help when they are sandy
to have all there is, and have i would grind it say it, to neighborhood to mill. The gambling." "where is
not there make own gambling?" Off wheat. "about three miles down chance."
 Ben says not at all--no detective--unless the joints has
toughened up a lot since he used to infest 'em, and we all said we'd take a chance, so again
we was in taxicabs. Us four in the second cab was now highly cynical about Ben's New Yorker.
The general feeling was that sooner or later he would sink the ship.

Then we reach the dive he has picked out; a very dismal dive with a room back of the bar that
had a few tables and a piano in it and a sweet-singing waiter. He was singing a song about
home and mother, that in mem-o-ree he seemed to see, when we got to our table. A very gloomy
and respectable haunt of vice it was, indeed. There was about a dozen male and female creatures
of the underworld present sadly enjoying this here ballad and scowling at us for talking when
we come in.

Jake Berger ordered, though finding you couldn't get stingers here and having to take two miner's
inches of red whiskey, and the New Yorker begun to warn us in low tones that we was surrounded
by danger on every hand--that we'd better pour our drink on the floor because it would be drugged,
after which we would be robbed if not murdered and thrown out into the alley where we would
then be arrested by grafting policemen. Even Ben was shocked by this warning. He asks the New
Yorker again if he is sure he was born in the old town, and the lad says honest he was and
has been living right here all these years in the same house he was born in. Ben is persuaded
by these words and gives the singing waiter a five and tells him to try and lighten the gloom
with a few crimes of violence or something. The New Yorker continued to set stiff in his chair,
one hand on his watch and one on the pocket where his change purse was that he'd tried to pay
his share of the taxicabs out of.

The gloom-stricken piano player now rattled off some ragtime and the depraved denizens about
us got sadly up and danced to it. Say, it was the most formal and sedate dancing you ever see,
with these gun men holding their guilty partners off at arm's length and their faces all drawn
down in lines of misery. They looked like they might be a bunch of strict Presbyterians that
had resolved to throw all moral teaching to the winds for one purple moment let come what might.
I want to tell you these depraved creatures of the underworld was darned near as depressing
as that play had been. Even the second round of drinks didn't liven us up none because the
waiter threw down his cigarette and sung another tearful song. This one was about a travelling
man going into a gilded cabaret and ordering a port wine and a fair young girl come out to
sing in short skirts that he recognized to be his boyhood's sweetheart Nell; so he sent a waiter
to ask her if she had forgot the song she once did sing at her dear old mother's knee, or knees,
and she hadn't forgot it and proved she hadn't, because the chorus was "Nearer My God to Thee"
sung to ragtime; then the travelling man said she must be good and pure, so come on let's leave
this place and they'd be wed.

Yes, sir; that's what Ben had got for his five, so this time he give the waiter a twenty not
to sing any more at all. The New Yorker was horrified at the sight of a man giving away money,
but it was well spent and we begun to cheer up a little. Ben told the New Yorker about the
time his dog team won the All Alaska Sweepstake Race, two hundred and six miles from Nome to
Candle and back, the time being 76 hours, 16 minutes, and 28 seconds, and showed him the picture
of his lead dog pasted in the back of his watch. And Jake Berger got real gabby at last and
told the story about the old musher going up the White Horse Trail in a blizzard and meeting
the Bishop, only he didn't know it was the Bishop. And the Bishop says, "How's the trail back
of you, my friend?" and the old musher just swore with the utmost profanity for three straight
minutes. Then he says to the Bishop, "And what's it like back of you?" and the Bishop says,
"Just like that!" It was a pretty severe ordeal for the rest of us, but we was ready to endure
much if it would make this low den seem more homelike. Only when Jeff got about halfway through
the singing waiter comes up, greatly shocked, and says none of that in here because they run
an orderly place, and we been talking too loud anyway. This waiter had a skull exactly like
a picture of one in a book I got that was dug up after three hundred thousand years and the
scientific world couldn't ever agree whether it was an early man or a late ape. I decided I
didn't care to linger in a place where a being with a head like this could pass on my diversions
and offenses so I made a move to go. Jeff Tuttle says to this waiter, "Fie, fie upon you, Roscoe!
We shall go to some respectable place where we can loosen up without being called for it."
The waiter said he was sorry, but the Bowery wasn't Broadway. And the New Yorker whispered
that it was just as well because we was lucky to get out of this dive with our lives and property--and
even after that this anthropoid waiter come hurrying out to the taxis after us with my fur
piece and my solid gold vanity-box that I'd left behind on a chair. This was a bitter blow
to all of us after we'd been led to hope for outrages of an illegal character. The New Yorker
was certainly making a misdeal every time he got the cards. None of us trusted him any more,
though Ben was still loyal and sensitive about him, like he was an only child and from birth
had not been like other children.

The lad now wanted to steer us into an Allied Bazaar that would still be open, because he'd
promised to sell twenty tickets to it and had 'em on him untouched. But we shut down firmly
on this. Even Ben was firm. He said the last bazaar he'd survived was their big church fair
in Nome that lasted two nights and one day and the champagne booth alone took in six thousand
dollars, and even the beer booth took in something like twelve hundred, and he didn't feel
equal to another affair like that just yet.

So we landed uptown at a very swell joint full of tables and orchestras around a dancing floor
and more palms--which is the national flower of New York--and about eighty or a hundred slightly
inebriated débutantes and well-known Broadway social favourites and their gentlemen friends.
And here everything seemed satisfactory at last, except to the New Yorker who said that the
prices would be something shameful. However, no one was paying any attention to him by now.
None of us but Ben cared a hoot where he had been born and most of us was sorry he had been at all.

Jake Berger bought a table for ten dollars, which was seven more than it had ever cost the
owner, and Ben ordered stuff for us, including a vintage champagne that the price of stuck
out far enough beyond other prices on the wine list, and a porterhouse steak, family style,
for himself, and everything seemed on a sane and rational basis again. It looked as if we might
have a little enjoyment during the evening after all. It was a good lively place, with all
these brilliant society people mingling up in the dance in a way that would of got 'em thrown
out of that gangsters' haunt on the Bowery. Lon Price said he'd never witnessed so many human
shoulder blades in his whole history and Jeff Tuttle sent off a lot of picture cards of this
here ballroom or saloon that a waiter give him. The one he sent Egbert Floud showed the floor
full of beautiful reckless women in the dance and prominent society matrons drinking highballs,
and Jeff wrote on it, "This is my room; wish you was here." Jeff was getting right into the
spirit of this bohemian night life; you could tell that. Lon Price also. In ten minutes Lon
had made the acquaintance of a New York social leader at the next table and was dancing with
her in an ardent or ribald manner before Ben had finished his steak.

I now noticed that the New Yorker was looking at his gun-metal watch about every two minutes
with an expression of alarm. Jake Berger noticed it, too, and again leaned heavily on the conversation.
"Not keeping you up, are we?" says Jake. And this continual watch business must of been getting
on Ben's nerves, too, for now, having fought his steak to a finish, he says to his little guest
that they two should put up their watches and match coins for 'em. The New Yorker was suspicious
right off and looked Ben's watch over very carefully when Ben handed it to him. It was one
of these thin gold ones that can be had any place for a hundred dollars and up. You could just
see that New Yorker saying to himself, "So this is their game, is it?" But he works his nerve
up to take a chance and gets a two-bit piece out of his change purse and they match. Ben wins
the first time, which was to of settled it, but Ben says right quick that of course he had
meant the best two out of three, which the New Yorker doesn't dispute for a minute, and they
match again and Ben wins that, too, so there's nothing to do but take the New Yorker's watch
away from him. He removes it carefully off a leather fob with a gilt acorn on it and hands
it slowly to Ben. It was one of these extra superior dollar watches that cost three dollars.
The New Yorker looked very stung, indeed. You could hear him saying to himself, "Serves me
right for gambling with a stranger!" Ben feels these suspicions and is hurt by 'em so he says
to Jeff, just to show the New Yorker he's an honest sport, that he'll stake his two watches
against Jeff's solid silver watch that he won in a bucking contest in 1890. Jeff says he's
on; so they match and Ben wins again, now having three watches. Then Lon Price comes back from
cavorting with this amiable jade of the younger dancing set at the next table and Ben makes
him put up his gold seven-jewelled hunting-case watch against the three and Ben wins again,
now having four watches.

Lon says "Easy come, easy go!" and moves over to the next table again to help out with the
silver bucket of champagne he's ordered, taking Jeff Tuttle with him to present to his old
friends that he's known for all of twenty minutes. The New Yorker is now more suspicious then
ever of Ben; his wan beauty is marred by a cynical smile and his hair has come unglued in a
couple of places. Show, religion, a Ganzen, Schönen, Guten of province, are combined in threefold
whose unity, has apprehended and construe in their belgian soul. "momentarily to whom become i but to thee,
the Name? Boatbuilder and triumvirate, thou, of firm not made with guardianship! The wonder
and quality of it turn t on one, as the sky and ugliness of the wonder,
of a sea, of a scenery, ugly so and adjective from more first, go
therefore the wonderful, ineffable and assimilate.

 Jake sees it plain enough, that the lad thinks he's been high-graded, so he
calls over our waiter and crowds all five watches onto him. "Take these home to the little
ones," says Jake, and dismisses the matter from his mind by putting a wine glass up to his
ear and listening into it with a rapt expression that shows he's hearing the roar of the ocean
up on Alaska's rockbound coast.

The New Yorker is a mite puzzled by this, but I can see it don't take him long to figure out
that the waiter is also a confederate. Anyway, he's been robbed of his watch forever and falls
to the champagne again very eager and moody. It was plain he didn't know what a high-powered
drink he was trifling with. And Ben was moody, too, by now. He quit recalling old times and
sacred memories to the New Yorker. If the latter had tried to break up the party by leaving
at this point I guess Ben would of let him go. But he didn't try; he just set there soggily
drinking champagne to drown the memory of his lost watch. And pretty soon Ben has to order
another quart of this twelve-dollar beverage. The New Yorker keeps right on with the new bottle,
daring it to do its worst and it does; he was soon speaking out of a dense fog when he spoke
at all.

With his old pal falling into this absent mood Ben throws off his own depression and mingles
a bit with the table of old New York families where Lon Price is now paying the checks. They
was the real New Yorkers; they'd never had a moment's distrust of Lon after he ordered the
first time and told the waiter to keep the glasses brimming. Jeff Tuttle was now dancing in
an extreme manner with a haggard society bud aged thirty-five, and only Jake and me was left
at our table. We didn't count the New Yorker any longer; he was merely raising his glass to
his lips at regular intervals. He moved something like an automatic chess player I once saw.
The time passed rapidly for a couple hours more, with Jake Berger keeping up his ceaseless
chatter as usual. He did speak once, though, after an hour's silence. He said in an audible
tone that the New Yorker was a human hangnail, no matter where he was born.

And so the golden moments flitted by, with me watching the crazy crowd, until they began to
fall away and the waiters was piling chairs on the naked tables at the back of the room. Then
with some difficulty we wrenched Ben and Lon and Jeff from the next table and got out into
the crisp air of dawn. The New Yorker was now sunk deep in a trance and just stood where he
was put, with his hat on the wrong way. The other boys had cheered up a lot owing to their
late social career. Jeff Tuttle said it was all nonsense about its being hard to break into
New York society, because look what he'd done in one brief evening without trying--and he flashed
three cards on which telephone numbers is written in dainty feminine hands. He said if a modest
and retiring stranger like himself could do that much, just think what an out-and-out social
climber might achieve!

Right then I was ready to call it an absorbing and instructive evening and get to bed. But
no! Ben Sutton at sight of his now dazed New Yorker has resumed his brooding and suddenly announces
that we must all make a pilgrimage to West Ninth Street and romantically view his old home
which his father told him to get out of twenty-five years ago, and which we can observe by
the first tender rays of dawn. He says he has been having precious illusions shattered all
evening, but this will be a holy moment that nothing can queer--not even a born New Yorker
that hasn't made the grade and is at this moment so vitrified that he'd be a mere glass crash
if some one pushed him over.

I didn't want to go a bit. I could see that Jeff Tuttle would soon begin dragging a hip, and
the streets at that hour was no place for Lon Price, with his naturally daring nature emphasized,
as it were, from drinking this here imprisoned laughter of the man that owned the joint we
had just left. But Ben was pleading in a broken voice for one sight of the old home with its
boyhood memories clustering about its modest front and I was afraid he'd get to crying, so
I give in wearily and we was once more encased in taxicabs and on our way to the sacred scene.
Ben had quite an argument with the drivers when he give 'em the address. They kept telling
him there wasn't a thing open down there, but he finally got his aim understood. The New Yorker's
petrified remains was carefully tucked into the cab with Ben.

And Ben suffered another cruel blow at the end of the ride. He climbed out of the cab in a
reverent manner, hoping to be overcome by the sight of the cherished old home, and what did
he find? He just couldn't believe it at first. The dear old house had completely disappeared
and in its place was a granite office building eighteen stories high. Ben just stood off and
looked up at it, too overcome for words. Up near the top a monster brass sign in writing caught
the silver light of dawn. The sign sprawled clear across the building and said PANTS EXCLUSIVELY.
Still above this was the firm's name in the same medium--looking like a couple of them hard-lettered
towns that get evacuated up in Poland.

Poor stricken Ben looked in silence a long time. We all felt his suffering and kept silent,
too. Even Jeff Tuttle kept still--who all the way down had been singing about old Bill Bailey
who played the Ukelele in Honolulu Town. It was a solemn moment. After a few more minutes of
silent grief Ben drew himself together and walked off without saying a word. I thought walking
would be a good idea for all of us, especially Lon and Jeff, so Jake paid the taxi drivers
and we followed on foot after the chief mourner. The fragile New Yorker had been exhumed and
placed in an upright position and he walked, too, when he understood what was wanted of him;
he didn't say a word, just did what was told him like one of these boys that the professor
hypnotizes on the stage. I herded the bunch along about half a block back of Ben, feeling it
was delicate to let him wallow alone in his emotions. 

The person identity of the half mythical fighting poet evade the sense, and Sordello has rather
given the agnomen of Browning to the poetic type of an imagined character than constructed a type
of character to fit the name. Jake Berger said these New Yorkers would pay for it sooner or later, burning
the candle at both ends this way--dancing all night and then starting off to work.

Then up a little way we catch sight of a regular old-fashioned horse-car going crosstown. Ben
has stopped this and is talking excitedly to the driver so we hurry up and find he's trying
to buy the car from the driver. Yes, sir; he says its the last remnant of New York when it
was little and old and he wants to take it back to Nome as a souvenir. Anybody might of thought
he'd been drinking. He's got his roll out and wants to pay for the car right there. The driver
is a cold-looking old boy with gray chin whiskers showing between his cap and his comforter
and he's indignantly telling Ben it can't be done. By the time we get there the conductor has
come around and wants to know what they're losing all this time for. He also says they can't
sell Ben the car and says further that we'd all better go home and sleep it off, so Ben hands
'em each a ten spot, the driver lets off his brake, and the old ark rattles on while Ben's
eyes is suffused with a suspicious moisture, as they say.

Ben now says we must stand right on this corner to watch these cars go by--about once every
hour. We argued with him whilst we shivered in the bracing winelike air, but Ben was stubborn.
We might of been there yet if something hadn't diverted him from this evil design. It was a
string of about fifty Italians that just then come out of a subway entrance. They very plainly
belonged to the lower or labouring classes and I judged they was meant for work on the up-and-down
street we stood on, that being already torn up recklessly till it looked like most other streets
in the same town. They stood around talking in a delirious or Italian manner till their foreman
unlocked a couple of big piano boxes. Out of these they took crowbars, axes, shovels, and other
instruments of their calling. Ben Sutton has been standing there soddenly waiting for another
dear old horse-car to come by, but suddenly he takes notice of these bandits with the tools
and I see an evil gleam come into his tired eyes. He assumes a businesslike air, struts over
to the foreman of the bunch, and has some quick words with him, making sweeping motions of
the arm up and down the cross street where the horse-cars run. After a minute of this I'm darned
if the whole bunch didn't scatter out and begin to tear up the pavement along the car-track
on this cross street. Ben tripped back to us looking cheerful once more.

"They wouldn't sell me the car," he says, "so I'm going to take back a bunch of the dear old
rails. They'll be something to remind me of the dead past. Just think! I rode over those very
rails when I was a tot."

