At the sound of Yvon's steps, Gervaise turned her head: "Father!" said she in despair, "if
you bring nothing with you, I shall kill my children to shorten their agony ... and then myself!"

Yvon threw down his bow and took his bag from his shoulders. Gervaise judged from its size
and obvious weight that it was full. She wrenched it from Yvon's hands with savage impatience,
thrust her hand in it, pulled out the chunk of roasted meat and raising it over her head to
show it to the whole family cried out in a quivering voice: "Meat!... Oh, we shall not yet
die! Den-Brao.... Children!... Meat!... Meat!" At these words Den-Brao sat up precipitately;
Nominoe, too feeble to rise, turned on his pallet and stretched out his eager hands to his
mother; little Jeannette eagerly looked up from her cradle; while Julyan, whom his mother was
not now holding, neither heard nor saw aught but was biting into his arms in the delirium of
starvation, unnoticed by either Yvon or any other member of the family. All eyes were fixed
upon Gervaise, who running to a table and taking a knife sliced off the meat crying: "Meat!...
Meat!"

"Give me!... Give me!" cried Den-Brao, stretching out his emaciated arms, and he devoured in
an instant the piece that he received.

"You next, Jeannette!" said Gervaise, throwing a slice to the little girl who uttered a cry
of joy, while her mother herself, yielding to the cravings of starvation bit off mouthfuls
from the slice that she reached out to her oldest son, Nominoe, who, like the rest, pounced
upon the prey, and fell to eating in silent voracity. "And now, you, Julyan," continued Gervaise.
The lad made no answer. His mother stooped down over him: "Julyan, do not bite your arm! Here
is meat, dear boy!" But his elder brother, Nominoe, having swallowed up his own slice, brusquely
seized that which his mother was tendering to Julyan. Seeing that the latter continued motionless,
Gervaise insisted: "My child, take your arm from your teeth!" But hardly had she pronounced
these words than, turning towards Yvon, she cried: "Come here, father.... His arm is icy and
rigid ... so rigid that I cannot withdraw it from his jaws."

Yvon rushed to the pallet where Julyan lay. The little boy had expired in the convulsion of
hunger, although less unfeebled than his brother and sister. "Step aside," Yvon said to Gervaise;
"step aside!" She realized that Julyan was dead, obeyed Yvon's orders and went on to eat. But
her hunger being appeased, she approached her son's corpse and sobbed aloud:

"My poor little Julyan!" she lamented. "Oh, my dear child! You died of hunger!... A few minutes
longer and you would have had something to eat like the others ... at least for to-day!"

"Where did you get this roast, father?" asked Den-Brao.

"I found the tracks of a buck," answered Yvon dropping his eyes; "I followed the animal but
failed to come up to it. In that way I went as far as the tavern of Gregory the Hollow-bellied.
He was at supper.... I shared his repast, and he gave me what you have just eaten."

"Such a gift! and in days of famine, father! in such days when only seigneurs and the clergy
do not suffer of hunger!"

"I made the tavern-keeper sympathize with our distress," Yvon answered brusquely, and, in order
to put an end to the subject he added: "I am worn out with fatigue; I must rest," saying which
he walked into the contiguous room to stretch himself out on his couch, while his son and daughter
remained on their knees near the body of little Julyan. The other two children fell asleep,
still saying they were hungry. After a long and troubled sleep, Yvon woke up. It was day. Gervaise
and her husband still knelt near Julyan. His brother and sister were saying: "Mother, give
us something to eat; we are hungry!"

"Later, dear little ones," answered the unhappy woman to console them; "later you shall have
something to eat."

Den-Brao raised his head and asked: "Where are you going, father?"

"I am going to dig the grave of my little grandson.... I wish to save you the sad task."

"Dig ours also, father," Den-Brao replied with a dejected mien. "We shall all die to-night.
For a moment allayed, our hunger will rise more violent than last night ... dig a wide grave
for us all."

"Despair not, my children. It has stopped snowing. I may be able to find again the traces of
the buck."

Yvon picked up a spade with which to dig Julyan's grave near where the boy's great-grandfather,
Leduecq, lay buried. Near the place was a heap of dead branches that had been gathered shortly
before by the woodsmen serfs to turn into coal. After the grave was dug, Yvon left his spade
near it and as the snow had ceased falling he started anew in pursuit of the buck. It was in
vain. Nowhere were the animal's tracks to be seen. It grew night with the prospect of a long
darkness, seeing the moon would not rise until late. Yvon was reminded by the pangs of hunger,
that began to assail him, that in his hut the sufferings must have returned. A spectacle, even
more distressing than that of the previous night now awaited him--the convulsive cries of starving
children, the moaning of their mother, the woe-begone looks and dejectment of his son who lay
on the floor awaiting death, and reproaching Yvon for having prolonged his own and the sufferings
of his family with their lives. Such was the prostration of these wretched beings that, without
turning their heads to Yvon, or even addressing a single word to him, they let him carry out
the corpse of the deceased child.

An hour later Yvon re-entered his hut. It was pitch dark; the hearth was cold. None had even
the spirit to light a resin torch. Hollow and spasmodic rattlings were heard from the throats
of those within. Suddenly Gervaise jumped up and groped her way in the dark towards Yvon crying:
"I smell roast meat ... just as last night ... we shall not die!... Den-Brao, your father has
brought some more meat!... Come, children, come for your share.... A light quick!"

"No, no! We want no light!" Yvon cried in a tremulous voice. "Take!" said he to Gervaise, who
was tugging at the bag on his shoulders. "Take!... Divide this venison among yourselves, and
eat in the dark!"

The wretched family devoured the meat in the dark; their hunger and feebleness did not allow
them to ask what kind of meat it was. But Yvon fled from the hut almost crazed with horror.
Abomination! His family was again feeding upon human flesh!

CHAPTER VI.

THE FLIGHT TO ANJOU.

Long, aimless, distracted, Yvon wandered about the forest. A severe frost had succeeded the
fall of snow that covered every inch of the ground. The moon shone brilliantly in the crisp
air. The forester felt chilled; in despair he threw himself down at the foot of a tree, determined
there to await death.

The torpor of death by freezing was creeping upon the mind of the heart-broken serf when, suddenly,
the crackling of branches that announce the passage of game fell upon his ears and revived
him with the promise of life. The animal could not be more than fifty paces away. Unfortunately
Yvon had left his bow and arrows in his hut. "It is the buck! Oh, this time I shall kill him!"
he murmured to himself. His revived will-power now dominated the exhaustion of his forces,
and it was strong enough to cause him to lose no time in vain regrets at not having his hunting
arms with him, now when the prey would be certain. The crackling of the branches drew nearer.
Yvon found himself under a clump of large and old oaks, a little distance away was the thick
copse through which the animal was then passing. He rose up and planted himself motionless
close to and along the trunk of the tree at the foot of which he had thrown himself down. Covered
by the tree's thickness and the shadow that it threw, with his neck extended, his eyes and
ears on the alert, the serf took his long forester's knife between his teeth and waited. After
several minutes of mortal suspense--the buck might get the wind of him or come from cover beyond
his reach--Yvon heard the animal approach, then stop an instant close behind the tree against
which he had glued his back. The tree concealed Yvon from the eyes of the animal, but it also
prevented him from seeing the prey that he breathlessly lay in wait for. Presently, six feet
from Yvon and to the right, he saw plainly sketched upon the snow, that the light of the moon
rendered brilliant, the shape of the buck and the wide antlers that crowned his head. Yvon
stopped breathing and remained motionless so long as the shadow stood still. A moment later
the shadow began to steal towards him, and with a prodigious bound Yvon rushed at and seized
the animal by the horns. The buck was large and struggled vigorously; but clambering himself
around the horns with his left arm, Yvon plunged his knife with his right hand into the animal's
throat. The buck rolled over him and expired, while Yvon, with his mouth fastened to the wound,
pumped up and swallowed the blood that flowed in a thick stream.

The warm and healthy blood strengthened and revivified the serf.... He had not eaten since
the previous night.

Yvon rested a few moments; he then bound the hind legs of the buck with a flexible twig and
dragging his booty, not without considerable effort by reason of its weight, he arrived with
it at his hut near the Fountain of the Hinds. His family was now for a long time protected
from hunger. The buck could not yield less than three hundred pounds of meat, which carefully
prepared and smoked after the fashion of foresters, could be preserved for many months.

Two days after these two fateful nights, Yvon learned from a woodsman serf, that one of his
fellows, a forester of the woods of Compiegne like himself, having discovered the next morning
the body of Gregory the Hollow-bellied pierced with an arrow that remained in the wound, and
having identified the weapon as Yvon's by the peculiar manner in which it was feathered, had
denounced him as the murderer. The bailiff of the domain of Compiegne detested Yvon. Although
the latter's crime delivered the neighborhood of a monster who slaughtered the travelers in
order to gorge himself upon them, the bailiff ordered his arrest. Thus notified in time, Yvon
the Forester resolved to flee, leaving his son and family behind. But Den-Brao as well as his
wife insisted upon accompanying him with their children.

The whole family decided to take the road and place their fate in the hands of Providence.
The smoked buck's meat would suffice to sustain them through a long journey. They knew that
whichever way they took, serfdom awaited them. It was a change of serfdom for serfdom; but
they found consolation in the knowledge that the change from the horrors they had undergone
could not but improve their misery. The famine, although general, was not, according to reports,
equally severe everywhere.

The hut near the Fountain of the Hinds was, accordingly, abandoned. Den-Brao and his wife carried
the little Jeannette by turns on their backs. The other child, Nominoe, being older, marched
besides his grandfather. They reached and crossed the borders of the royal domain, and Yvon
felt safe. A few days later the travelers learned from some pilgrims that Anjou suffered less
of the famine than did any other region. Thither they directed their steps, induced thereto
by the further consideration that Anjou bordered on Britanny, the cradle of the family. Yvon
wished eventually to return thither in the hope of finding some of his relatives in Armorica.

The journey to Anjou was made during the first months of the year 1034 and across a thousand
vicissitudes, almost always accompanied by some pilgrims, or by beggars and vagabonds. Everywhere
on their passage the traces were met of the horrible famine and not much less horrible ravages
caused by the private feuds of the seigneurs. Little Jeannette perished on the road.

EPILOGUE.

The narrative of my father, Yvon the Forester, breaks off here. He could not finish it. He
was soon after taken sick and died. Before expiring he made to me the following confession
which he desired inserted in the family's annals:

"I have a horrible confession to make. Near by the grave to which I took the body of Julyan,
lay a large heap of wood that was to be reduced to coal by the woodsmen. My family was starving
in the hut. I saw no way of prolonging their existence. The thought then occurred to me: 'Last
night the abominable food that I carried to my family from Gregory's human charnel house kept
them from dying in the agonies of starvation. My grandson is dead. What should I do? Bury the
body of little Julyan or have it serve to prolong the life of those who gave him life?'

"After long hesitating before such frightful alternatives, the thought of the agonies that
my family were enduring decided me. I lighted the heap of dried wood. I laid upon it the flesh
of my grandson, and by the light cast from the pyre I buried his bones, except a fragment of
his skull, which I preserved as a sad and solemn relic of those accursed days, and on which
I engraved these fateful words in the Gallic tongue: Fin-al-bred--The End of the World. I then
took the broiled pieces of meat to my expiring family!... You all ate in the dark.... You knew
not what you ate.... The ghastly meal saved your lives!"

My father then delivered to me the parchment that contained his narrative, accompanied with
the lettered bone from the skull of my poor little Julyan, and also the iron arrow-head which
accompanied the narrative left by our ancestor Eidiol, the skipper of Paris. Some day, perhaps,
these two narratives may be joined to the chronicle of our family, no doubt held by those of
our relatives who must still be living in Britanny.

My father Yvon died on the 9th of September, 1034.

