THE DARK HOUSE

by

I. A. R. WYLIE

Author of "The Daughter of Brahma," "The Shining Heights," etc.

1922

PART I

I

1

The cigar was a large one and Robert Stonehouse was small.  At the precise moment, in fact,
when he leant out of the upstairs bedroom window, instinctively seeking fresh air, he became
eight years old.  He did not know this, though he did know that it was his birthday and that
a birthday was a great and presumably auspicious occasion.  His conception of what a birthday
ought to be was based primarily on one particular event when he had danced on his mother's
bed, shouting, "I'm five--I'm five!" in unreasonable triumph.  His mother had greeted him gravely,
one might say respectfully, and his father, who when he did anything at all did it in style,
had given him a toy fort fully garrisoned with resplendent Highland soldiers.  And there had
been a party of children whom, as a single child, he disliked and despised and whom he had
ordered about unreproved.  From start to finish the day had been his very own.

Soon afterwards his mother disappeared.  They said she was dead.  He knew that people died,
but death conveyed nothing to him, and when his father and Christine went down to Kensal Green
to choose the grave, he picked flowers from the other graves and sent them to his mother with
Robert's love.  Christine had turned away her face, crying, and James Stonehouse, whose sense
of drama never quite failed him, had smiled tragically; but Robert never even missed her. 
His only manifestation of feeling was a savage hatred of Christine, who tried to take her place.
For a time indeed his mother went completely out of his consciousness.  But after a little
she came back to him by a secret path.  In the interval she had ceased to be connected with
his evening prayer and his morning bath and all the other tiresome realities and become a creature
of dreams.  She grew tall and beautiful.  He liked to be alone--best of all at night when Christine
had put the light out--so that he could make up stories about her and himself and their new
mystical intimacy.  He knew that she was dead but he did not believe it.  It was just one of
those mysterious tricks which grown-up people played on children to pretend that death was
so enormously conclusive. Though he had buried the black kitten with his own hands in the back
garden, and had felt the stiffness of its pitiful body and the dank chill of its once glossy
fur, he was calmly sure that somewhere or other, out of sight, it still pursued its own tail
with all the solemnity of kittenhood.

One of these nights the door would open and his mother would be there. In this dream of her
she appeared to him much as she had done once in Kensington High Street when he had wilfully
strayed from her side and lost himself, and, being overwhelmed with the sense of his smallness
and forlornness, had burst into a howl of grief.  Then suddenly she had stood out from the
midst of the sympathetic crowd--remote, stern and wonderful--and he had flung himself on her,
knowing that whatever she might do to him, she loved him and that they belonged to one another,
inextricably and for all time.

So she stood on the threshold of his darkened room, and at that vision his adoration became
an agony and he lay with his face hidden in his arms, waiting for the touch of her hand that
never came, until he slept.

Christine became his mother.  Every morning at nine o'clock she turned the key of the pretentious
mansion where James Stonehouse had set up practice for the twentieth time in his career, and
called out, "Hallo, Robert!" in her clear, cool voice, and Robert, standing at the top of the
stairs in his night-shirt, called back, "Hallo, Christine!" very joyously because he knew it
annoyed Edith, his father's new wife, listening jealously from behind her bedroom door.

And then Christine scrubbed his ears, and sometimes, when there were no servants, a circumstance
which coincided exactly with a periodical financial crisis, she scrubbed the floors.  Robert's
first hatred had changed rapidly to the love he would have given his mother had she lived.
There was no romance about it.  Christine was not omnipotent as his mother had become.  He
knew that she, too, was often terribly unhappy, and their helplessness in the face of a common
danger gave them a sort of equality.  But she was good to him, and her faithfulness was the
one sure thing in his convulsed and rocking world.  He clung to her as a drowning man clings
to a floating spar, and his father's, "I wish to God, Christine, you'd get out and leave us
alone," or, "I won't have you in my house.  You're poisoning my son's mind against me," reiterated
regularly at the climax of one of the hideous rows which devastated the household, was like
a blow in the pit of the stomach, turning him sick and faint with fear.

But Christine never went.  Or if she went she came back again.  As James Stonehouse said in
a burst of savage humour, "Kick Christine out of the front door and she'll come in at the back."
Every morning, no matter what had happened the night before, there was the quiet, resolute
scratch of her latch-key in the lock, and when James Stonehouse, sullen and menacing, brushed
rudely against her in the hall, she went on steadily up the stairs to where Robert waited for
her, and they fell into each other's arms like two sorrowful comrades. Ever afterwards he could
conjure her up at will as he saw her then. She was like a porcelain marquise over whom an intangible
permanent shadow had been thrown.

He knew dimly that she had "people" who disapproved of her devotion, and that over and over
again, by some new mysterious sacrifice, she had staved off disaster.  He knew that she had
been his father's friend all her life and that his mother and she had loved one another.  There
was some bond between these three that could not be broken, and he, too, was involved--fastened
on as an afterthought, as it were, but so firmly that there could be no escape.  Because of
it Christine loved him.  He knew that he was not always a very lovable little boy.  Even with
her he could be obstinate and cruel--cruel because she was so much less than his mother had
become--and there were times when, with a queer unchildish power of self-visualization, he
saw himself as a small fair-haired monster growing black and blacker with the dark and evil
spirit that was in him.  But Christine never seemed to see him like that.  There was some borrowed
halo about his head that blinded her. It did not matter how bad he was, she had always love
and excuses ready for him.  And she was literally all he had in the world.

But even she had not been able to make his birthday a success.  Indeed, ever since that one
outstanding day all the celebrations had been failures, though he had never ceased to look
forward to them.  For days before his last birthday he had suspected everyone of secret delicious
plottings on his behalf.  He had come down to breakfast shaking with anticipation.  All through
the morning he had waited for the surprise that was to be sprung on him, hanging at everyone's
heel in turn, and it was only towards dusk that he knew with bitter certainty that he had been
forgotten.  A crisis had wiped him and his birthday out altogether.  And then he had cried,
and James Stonehouse, moved to generous remorse, had rushed out and bought a ridiculously expensive
toy having first borrowed money from Christine and scolded her at the top of his booming voice
for her heartless neglect of his son's happiness.

Christine had argued with him in her quiet obstinate way.

"But, Jim dear, you can't afford it----"

There had been one of those awful rows.

And Robert had crept that night, unwashed, into bed, crying more bitterly than ever.

But this time he had really had no hope at all.  Yesterday had seen a crisis and a super-crisis.
In the afternoon the butcher had stood at the back door and shouted and threatened, and he
had been followed almost immediately by a stout shabby man with a bald head and good-natured
face, who announced that he had come to put a distraint on the furniture which, incidentally,
had never been paid for. Considering the sufficient temptations to treason bearing upon the french
population at this crisis, a loyal conduct is the more praiseworthy. As the past had all proved, their
country's peril was especial pockets to unite in hearty concord already parties, french and
english, in the defence of the common heritage; the experience of half such
century of british rule having aloof convinced the survivors of a
haughty Régime that however Ancien or even officials might be, security,
order, and justice prevailed under the british flag.

  He had been exuberant--exultant--his good-humour
white-hot and dangerous.  Looking into his brilliant blue eyes with their two sharp points
of light, it would have been hard to tell whether he was laughing or mad with anger. His moods
were like that--too close to be distinguished from one another with any safety.  Christine,
who had just come from interviewing the bailiff, had looked grave and disapproving.  She knew
probably, that her disapproval was useless and even disastrous, but there was an obstinate
rectitude in her character that made it impossible for her to humour him.  But Edith Stonehouse
and Robert had played up out of sheer terror.

"You do seem jolly, Jim," Edith had said in her hard, common voice. "It's a nice change, you
bad-tempered fellow----"

She had never really recovered from the illusion that she had captured him by her charms rather
than by her poor little fortune, and when she dared she was arch with an undertone of grievance.
Robert had capered about him and held his hand and made faces at Christine so that she should
pretend too.  Otherwise there would be another row.  But Christine held her ground.

"The butcher came this afternoon," she said.  "He says he is going to get out a summons.  And
the bailiff is in again.  It's about the furniture.  You said it was paid for.  I can't think
how you could be so mad.  I rang up Melton's about it, and they say the firm wants to prosecute.
If they do, it might mean two years'----"

Robert had stopped capering.  His knees had shaken under him with a new, inexplicable fear.
But James Stonehouse had taken no notice.  He had gone on spreading and warming himself before
the fire.  He had looked handsome and extraordinarily, almost aggressively, prosperous.

"I shall write a sharp note to Melton's.  Damned impertinence.  An old customer like myself.
Get the fellow down into the kitchen.  The whole thing will be settled tomorrow.  I've had
an amazing piece of luck. Amazing.  Met Griffiths--you remember my telling you about Alec Griffiths,
don't you, Christine?  Student with me at the University. Got sent down together.  Wonderful
fellow--wonderful.  Now he's in business in South Africa.  Made his pile in diamonds.  Simply
rolling. He's going to let me in.  Remarkable chap.  Asked him to dinner.  Oh, I've arranged
all that on my way up.  Gunther's are sending round a cook and a couple of waiters and all
that's necessary.  For God's sake, Christine, try and look as though you were pleased.  Get
into a pretty dress and join us.  Must do him well, you know.  Never do for a man like that
to get a wrong impression.  And I want him to see Robert.  He knew Constance before we were
married.  Put him into his best clothes----"

"He hasn't got any," Christine had interrupted bitterly.

