The death of his father in 1735 made him the head of the family of Montcalm. The next year
he married Angelique Talon du Boulay, a member of a military family, and grand-daughter of
Denis Talon; a kinsman of Jean Talon, the best intendant who ever served New France. For the
next twenty years, from 1736 to 1756, he spent in his ancestral castle of Candiac as much of
his time as he could spare from the army. There he had been born, and there he always hoped
he could live and die among his own people after his wars were over. How often he was to sigh
for one look at his pleasant olive groves when he was far away, upholding the honour of France
against great British odds and, far worse, against secret enemies on the French side in the
dying colony across the sea! But for the present all this was far off. Meanwhile, Candiac was
a very happy home; and Montcalm's wife and his mother made it the happier by living together
under the same roof. In course of time ten children were born, all in the family chateau.

Montcalm's second war was the War of the Austrian Succession, a war in which his younger opponent
Wolfe saw active service for the first time. The two future opponents in Canada never met,
however, on the same battlefields in Europe. In 1741, the year in which Wolfe received his
first commission, Montcalm fought so well in Bohemia that he was made a Knight of St Louis.
Two years later, at the age of thirty-one, he was promoted to the command of a regiment which
he led through three severe campaigns in Italy. During the third campaign, in 1746, there was
a terrific fight against the Austrians under the walls of Placentia. So furious was the Austrian
attack that the French army was almost destroyed. Twice was Montcalm's regiment broken by sheer
weight of numbers. But twice he rallied it and turned to face the enemy again. The third attack
was the worst of all. Montcalm still fought on, though already he had three bullet wounds,
when the Austrian cavalry made a dashing charge and swept the French off the field altogether.
He met them, sword in hand, as dauntless as ever; but he was caught in a whirlwind of sabre-cuts
and was felled to the ground with two great gashes in his head. He was taken prisoner; but
was soon allowed to go home, on giving his word of honour, or 'parole,' that he would take
no further part in the war until some Austrian prisoner, of the same rank as his own, was given
back by the French in exchange. While still on parole he was promoted to be a brigadier, so
that he could command more than a single regiment. In due time, when proper exchange of prisoners
was made, Montcalm went back to Italy, again fought splendidly, and again was badly wounded.
The year 1748 closed with the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle; and seven years of peace followed
before the renewed tumult of the Seven Years' War.

Life went very well with Montcalm at Candiac. He was there as much as possible, and spent his
time between his castle and his olive groves, his study and his family circle. His eldest son
was a young man of much promise, growing immensely tall, devoted to the army, and engaged to
be married. His wife and her mother-in-law were as happy as ever with him and with each other.
Nothing seemed more peaceful than that quiet corner in the pleasant land of southern France.

But the age-long rivalry of French and British could not long be stilled. Even in 1754 there
were rumours of war from the Far East in India and from the Far West in Canada. Next year,
though peace was outwardly kept in Europe, both the great rivals sent fleets and armies to
America, where the clash of arms had already been heard. There were losses on both sides. And,
when the French general, Baron Dieskau, was made prisoner, the minister of War, knowing the
worth of Montcalm, asked him to think over the proposal that he should take command in New France.

On January 26, 1756, the formal offer came in a letter approved by the king. 'The king has
chosen you to command his troops in North America, and will honour you on your departure with
the rank of major-general. But what will please you still more is that His Majesty will put
your son in your place at the head of your present regiment. The applause of the public will
add to your satisfaction.'

On the very day Montcalm received this letter he made up his mind, accepted the command, bade
good-bye to Candiac, and set out for Paris. From Lyons he wrote to his mother: 'I am reading
with much pleasure the History of New France by Father Charlevoix. He gives a pleasant description
of Quebec.' From Paris he wrote to his wife: 'Do not expect any long letter before the 1st
of March. All my pressing work will then be finished, and I shall be able to breathe once more.
Last night I came from Versailles and I am going back to-morrow. My outfit will cost me a thousand
crowns more than the amount I am paid to cover it. But I cannot stop for that.' On March 15
he wrote home: 'Yesterday I presented my son, with whom I am very well pleased, to all the
royal family.' Three days later he wrote to his wife: 'I shall be at Brest on the twenty-first.
My son has been here since yesterday, for me to coach him and also in order to get his uniform
properly made. He will thank the king for his promotion at the same time that I make my adieux
in my embroidered coat. Perhaps I shall leave some debts behind me. I wait impatiently for
the accounts. You have my will. I wish you would have it copied, and would send me the duplicate
before I sail.'

On April 3 Montcalm left Brest in the Licorne, a ship of the little fleet which the French
were hurrying out to Canada before war should be declared in Europe. The passage proved long
and stormy. But Montcalm was lucky in being a much better sailor than his great opponent Wolfe.
Impatient to reach the capital at the earliest possible moment he rowed ashore from below the
island of Orleans, where the Licorne met a contrary wind, and drove up to Quebec, a distance
of twenty-five miles. It was May 13 when he first passed along the Beauport shore between Montmorency
and Quebec. Three years and nine days later he was to come back to that very point, there to
make his last heroic stand.

On the evening of his arrival Bigot the intendant gave a magnificent dinner-party for him.
Forty guests sat down to the banquet. Montcalm had not expected that the poor struggling colony
could boast such a scene as this. In a letter home he said: 'Even a Parisian would have been
astonished at the profusion of good things on the table. Such splendour and good cheer show
how much the intendant's place is worth.' We shall soon hear more of Bigot the intendant.

On the 26th Montcalm arrived at Montreal to see the Marquis of Vaudreuil the governor. The
meeting went off very well. The governor was as full of airs and graces as the intendant, and
said that nothing else in the world could have given him so much pleasure as to greet the general
sent out to take command of the troops from France. We shall soon hear more of Vaudreuil the
governor.

CHAPTER II

MONTCALM IN CANADA 1756

The French colonies in North America consisted of nothing more than two very long and very
thin lines of scattered posts and settlements, running up the St Lawrence and the Mississippi
to meet, in the far interior, at the Great Lakes. Along the whole of these four thousand miles
there were not one hundred thousand people. Only two parts of the country were really settled
at all: one Acadia, the other the shores of the St Lawrence between Bic and Montreal; and both
regions together covered not more than four hundred of the whole four thousand miles. There
were but three considerable towns--Louisbourg, Quebec, and Montreal--and Quebec, which was
much the largest, had only twelve thousand inhabitants.

The territory bordering on the Mississippi was called Louisiana. That in the St Lawrence region
was called New France along the river and Acadia down by the Gulf; though Canada is much the
best word to cover both. Now, Canada had ten times as many people as Louisiana; and Louisiana
by itself seemed helplessly weak. This very weakness made the French particularly anxious about
the country south of the Lakes, where Canada and Louisiana met. For, so long as they held it,
they held the gateways of the West, kept the valleys of the Ohio and Mississippi quite securely,
shut up the British colonies between the Alleghany Mountains and the Atlantic and prevented
them from expanding westward. One other thing was even more vital than this to the French in
America: it was that they should continue to hold the mouth of the St Lawrence. Canada could
live only by getting help from France; and as this help could not come up the Mississippi it
had to come up the St Lawrence.

The general position of the French may be summed up briefly. First, and most important of all,
they had to hold the line of the St Lawrence for a thousand miles in from the sea. Here were
their three chief positions: Louisbourg, Quebec, and Lake Champlain.

Secondly, they had to hold another thousand miles westward, to and across the Lakes; but especially
the country south of Lakes Ontario and Erie, into the valley of the Ohio. Here there were a
few forts, but no settlements worth speaking of.

Thirdly, they had to hold the valley of the Mississippi, two thousand miles from north to south.
Here there were very few forts, very few men, and no settlements of any kind. In fact, they
held the Mississippi only by the merest thread, and chiefly because the British colonies had
not yet grown out in that direction. The Mississippi did not come into the war, though it might
have done so. If Montcalm had survived the battle of the Plains, and if in 1760 the defence
of Canada on the St Lawrence had seemed to him utterly hopeless, his plan would probably then
have been to take his best soldiers from Canada into the interior, and in the end to New Orleans,
there to make a last desperate stand for France among the swamps. But this plan died with him;
and we may leave the valley of the Mississippi out of our reckoning altogether.

Not so the valley of the Ohio, which, as we have seen, was the meeting-place of Canada and
Louisiana, and the chief gateway to the West; and which the French and British rivals were
both most fiercely set on possessing. It was here that the world-wide Seven Years' War first
broke out; here that George Washington first appeared as an American commander; here that Braddock
led the first westbound British army; and here that Montcalm struck his first blow for French
America.

But, as we have also seen, even the valley of the Ohio was less important than the line of
the St Lawrence. The Ohio region was certainly the right arm of French America. But the St
Lawrence was the body, of which the lungs were Louisbourg, and the head and heart Quebec. Montcalm
saw this at once; and he made no single mistake in choosing the proper kind of attack and defence
during the whole of his four campaigns.

The British colonies were different in every way from the French. The French held a long, thin
line of four thousand miles, forming an inland loop from the Gulf of St Lawrence to the Gulf
of Mexico, with only one hundred thousand people sparsely settled in certain spots; the British
filled up the solid inside of this loop with over twelve hundred thousand people, who had an
open seaboard on the Atlantic for two thousand miles, from Nova Scotia down to Florida.

Now, what could have made such a great difference in growth between the French and the British
colonies, when France had begun with all the odds of European force and numbers in her favour?
The answer is two-fold: France had no adequate fleets and her colonies had no adequate freedom.

First, as to fleets. The mere fact that the Old and New Worlds had a sea between them meant
that the power with the best navy would have a great advantage. The Portuguese, Spaniards,
Dutch, and French all tried to build empires across the sea. But they all failed whenever they
came to blows with Britain, simply because no empire can live cut up into separate parts. The
sea divided the other empires, while, strange as it may appear, this same sea united the British.
The French were a nation of landsmen; for one very good reason that they had two land frontiers
to defend. Their kings and statesmen understood armies better than navies, and the French people
themselves liked soldiers better than sailors. The British, on the other hand, since they lived
on an island, had no land frontiers to defend. The people liked sailors better than soldiers.
And their rulers understood navies better than armies, for the sea had always been the people's
second home.

At this period, whenever war broke out, the British navy was soon able to win 'the command
of the sea'; that is, its squadrons soon made the sea a safe road for British ships and a very
unsafe road for the ships of an enemy. In America, at that time, everything used in war, from
the regular fleets and armies themselves down to the powder and shot, cannon and muskets, swords
and bayonets, tools, tents, and so on--all had to be brought across the Atlantic. While this
was well enough for the British, for the French it was always very hard and risky work. In
time of war their ships were watched, chased and taken whenever they appeared on the sea. Even
during peace they had much the worse of it, for they had to spend great sums and much effort
in building vessels to make up for the men of-war and the merchant ships which they had lost
and the British had won. Thus they never quite succeeded in beginning again on even terms with
their triumphant rival.

We must remember, too, that every sort of trade and money-making depended on the command of
the sea, which itself depended on the stronger navy. Even the trade with Indians in America,
two thousand miles inland, depended on defeat or victory at sea. The French might send out
ships full of things to exchange for valuable furs. But if they lost their ships they lost
their goods, and in consequence the trade and even the friendship of the Indians. In the same
way the navy helped or hindered the return trade from America to Europe. The furs and food
from the British colonies crossed over in safety, and the money or other goods in exchange
came safely back. But the French ships were not safe, and French merchants were often ruined
by the capture of their ships or by having the sea closed to them.

To follow out all the causes and effects of the command of the sea would be far too long a
story even to begin here. But the gist of it is quite short and quite plain: no Navy, no Empire.
That is what it meant then, and that is what it means now.

