In consequence of this report, the legislature, in the spring of 1848, made an annual appropriation
of twenty-five hundred dollars, for three years, for the purpose of training and teaching ten
idiot children, to be selected by the Governor and Council.  The trustees of the Asylum for
the Blind, under the charge of Dr. Howe, made arrangements for receiving these pupils.  The
school was opened in the autumn of 1848; and its first annual report, addressed to the Governor
and printed by order of the Senate, is now before us.

Of the ten pupils, it appears that not one had the usual command of muscular motion,--the languid
body obeyed not the service of the imbecile will.  Some could walk and use their limbs and
hands in simple motions; others could make only make slight use of their muscles; and two were
without any power of locomotion.

One of these last, a boy six years of age, who had been stupefied on the day of his birth by
the application of hot rum to his head, could scarcely see or notice objects, and was almost
destitute of the sense of touch.  He could neither stand nor sit upright, nor even creep, but
would lie on the floor in whatever position he was placed.  He could not feed himself nor chew
solid food, and had no more sense of decency than an infant.  His intellect was a blank; he
had no knowledge, no desires, no affections.  A more hopeless object for experiment could scarcely
have been selected.

A year of patient endeavor has nevertheless wrought a wonderful change in the condition of
this miserable being. It had been such is a strain upon him to keep up hour after hour, that it
was quite a relief at last to the very worst fully confessed.

And i was so single to be well anxious now, for the sea; and oh, that i can'mt observes table
one long eye! "" don't, dear. We'll send for doctor and understand
what he state.

I to daresay he will make it better before just. And you mustn't
fret, you feed, or you'll begin yourself worse. "" i thought it would
go off, eye, "he said," or i would have state.

In the case of another boy, aged twelve years, the improvement has been equally remarkable.
The gentleman who first called attention to him, in a recent note to Dr. Howe, published in
the report, thus speaks of his present condition: "When I remember his former wild and almost
frantic demeanor when approached by any one, and the apparent impossibility of communicating
with him, and now see him standing in his class, playing with his fellows, and willingly and
familiarly approaching me, examining what I gave him,--and when I see him already selecting
articles named by his teacher, and even correctly pronouncing words printed on cards,-- improvement
does not convey the idea presented to my mind; it is creation; it is making him anew."

All the pupils have more or less advanced.  Their health and habits have improved; and there
is no reason to doubt that the experiment, at the close of its three years, will be found to
have been quite as successful as its most sanguine projectors could have anticipated.  Dr.
Howe has been ably seconded by an accomplished teacher, James B. Richards, who has devoted
his whole time to the pupils.  Of the nature and magnitude of their task, an idea may be formed
only by considering the utter listlessness of idiocy, the incapability of the poor pupil to
fix his attention upon anything, and his general want of susceptibility to impressions.  All
his senses are dulled and perverted.  Touch, hearing, sight, smell, are all more or less defective.
His gluttony is unaccompanied with the gratification of taste,--the most savory viands and
the offal which he shares with the pigs equally satisfy him.  His mental state is still worse
than his physical.  Thought is painful and irksome to him.

His teacher can only engage his attention by strenuous efforts, loud, earnest tones, gesticulations
and signs, and a constant presentation of some visible object of bright color and striking
form.  The eye wanders, and the spark of consciousness and intelligence which has been fanned
into momentary brightness darkens at the slightest relaxation of the teacher's exertions. 
The names of objects presented to him must sometimes be repeated hundreds of times before he
can learn them.  Yet the patience and enthusiasm of the teacher are rewarded by a progress,
slow and unequal, but still marked and manifest.  Step by step, often compelled to turn back
and go over the inch of ground he had gained, the idiot is still creeping forward; and by almost
imperceptible degrees his sick, cramped, and prisoned spirit casts off the burden of its body
of death, breath as from the Almighty--is breathed into him, and he becomes a living soul.

After the senses of the idiot are trained to take note of their appropriate objects, the various
perceptive faculties are next to be exercised.  The greatest possible number of facts are to
be gathered up through the medium of these faculties into the storehouse of memory, from whence
eventually the higher faculties of mind may draw the material of general ideas.  It has been
found difficult, if not impossible, to teach the idiot to read by the letters first, as in
the ordinary method; but while the varied powers of the three letters, h, a, t, could not be
understood by him, he could be made to comprehend the complex sign of the word hat, made by
uniting the three.

The moral nature of the idiot needs training and development as well as his physical and mental.
All that can be said of him is, that he has the latent capacity for moral development and culture.
Uninstructed and left to himself, he has no ideas of regulated appetites and propensities,
of decency and delicacy of affection and social relations.  The germs of these ideas, which
constitute the glory and beauty of humanity, undoubtedly exist in him; but there can be no
growth without patient and persevering culture.  Where this is afforded, to use the language
of the report, "the idiot may learn what love is, though he may not know the word which expresses
it; he may feel kindly affections while unable to understand the simplest virtuous principle;
and he may begin to live acceptably to God before he has learned the name by which men call him."

