Copyright, 1904, BY LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY.

THE UNIVERSITY PRESS CAMBRIDGE, U.S.A.

PREFATORY NOTE

The first four chapters of "Susan Clegg and her Friend Mrs. Lathrop" appeared in "The Century
Magazine" as separate stories during the past year. They have been revised and partly rewritten
for book publication, and "The Minister's Vacation," never before printed, has been added.

Miss Clegg and her friend Mrs. Lathrop, as well as the other characters in the book, and the
scenes in which they figure, are wholly imaginary.

Contents

                                               Page
I
The Marrying of Susan Clegg                      1

II Miss Clegg's Adopted                            43

III Jathrop Lathrop's Cow                           83

IV Susan Clegg's Cousin Marion                    126

V The Minister's Vacation                        166

SUSAN CLEGG

And her Friend Mrs. Lathrop

I

THE MARRYING OF SUSAN CLEGG

Susan Clegg and Mrs. Lathrop were next-door neighbors and bosom friends. Their personalities
were extremely congenial, and the theoretical relation which the younger woman bore to the
elder was a further bond between them. Owing to the death of her mother some twenty years before,
Susan had fallen into the position of a helpless and timid young girl whose only key to the
problems of life in general had been the advice of her older and wiser neighbor. As a matter
of fact Mrs. Lathrop was barely twelve years the senior, but she had married and as a consequence
felt and was felt to be immeasurably the more ancient of the two.

Susan had never married, for her father--a bedridden paralytic--had occupied her time day and
night for years. He was a great care and as she did her duty by him with a thoroughness which
was praiseworthy in the extreme she naturally had very little leisure for society. Mrs. Lathrop
had more, because her family consisted of but one son, and she was not given to that species
of housekeeping which sweeps under the beds too often. It therefore came about that the one
and only recreation which the friends could enjoy together to any great extent was visiting
over the fence. Visiting over the fence is an occupation in which any woman may indulge without
fear of unkind criticism. If she takes occasion to run in next door, she is of course leaving
the house which she ought to be keeping, but she can lean on the fence all day without feeling
derelict as to a single duty. Then, too, there is something about the situation which produces
a species of agreeable subconsciousness that one is at once at home and abroad. It followed
that Susan and Mrs. Lathrop each wore a path from her kitchen door to the trysting-spot, and
that all summer long they met there early and late.

Mrs. Lathrop did the listening while she chewed clover. Just beyond her woodpile red clover
grew luxuriantly, and when she started for the place of meeting it was her invariable custom
to stop and pull a number of blossoms so that she might eat the tender petals while devoting
her attention to the business in hand.

It must be confessed that the business in hand was nearly always Miss Clegg's business, but
since Mrs. Lathrop, in her position of experienced adviser, was deeply interested in Susan's
exposition of her own affairs, that trifling circumstance appeared of little moment.

One of the main topics of conversation was Mr. Clegg. As Mr. Clegg had not quitted his bed
for over a score of years, it might seem that his novelty as a subject of discussion would
have been long since exhausted. But not so. His daughter was the most devoted of daughters,
and his name was ever rife on her lips. What he required done for him and what he required
done to him were the main ends of her existence, and the demands of his comfort, daily or annual,
resulted in numerous phrases of a startling but thoroughly intelligible order. Of such a sort
was her usual Saturday morning greeting to Mrs. Lathrop, "I 'm sorry to cut you off so quick,
but this 's father's day to be beat up and got into new pillow-slips," or her regular early-June
remark, "Well, I thank Heaven 't father 's had his hair picked over 'n' 't he's got his new
tick for this year!"

Mrs. Lathrop was always interested, always sympathetic, and rarely ever startled; yet one July
evening when Susan said suddenly, "I 've finished my dress for father's funeral," she did betray
a slight shock.

"You ought to see it," the younger woman continued, not noticing the other's start,--"it's
jus' 's nice. I put it away in camphor balls, 'n' Lord knows I don't look forward to the gettin'
it out to wear, f'r the whole carriage load 'll sneeze their heads off whenever I move in that
dress."

"Did you put newspaper--" Mrs. Lathrop began, mastering her earlier emotions.

"In the sleeves? Yes, I did, 'n' I bought a pair o' black gloves 'n' two handkerchiefs 'n'
slipped 'em into the pockets. Everythin' is all fixed, 'n' there 'll be nothin' to do when
father dies but to shake it out 'n' lay it on the bed in his room. I say 'in his room,' 'cause
o' course that day he 'll be havin' the guest-room. I was thinkin' of it all this afternoon
when I sat there by him hemmin' the braid on the skirt, 'n' I could n't but think 't if I sit
'n' wait very much longer I sh'll suddenly find myself pretty far advanced in years afore I
know it. This world's made f'r the young 's well's the old, 'n' you c'n believe me or not jus'
's you please, Mrs. Lathrop, but I 've always meant to get married 's soon 's father was off
my hands. I was countin' up to-day, though, 'n' if he lives to be a hunderd, I 'll be nigh
onto seventy 'n' no man ain't goin' to marry me at seventy. Not 'nless he was eighty, 'n' Lord
knows I ain't intendin' to bury father jus' to begin on some one else, 'n' that's all it 'd be."

Mrs. Lathrop chewed her clover.

"I set there thinkin' f'r a good hour, 'n' when I was puttin' away the dress, I kep' on thinkin',
'n' the end was 't now that dress 's done I ain't got nothin' in especial to sew on 'n' so
I may jus' 's well begin on my weddin' things. There's no time like the present, 'n' 'f I married
this summer he 'd have to pay f'r half of next winter's coal. 'N' so my mind's made up, 'n'
you c'n talk yourself blind, 'f you feel so inclined, Mrs. Lathrop, but you can't change hide
or hair o' my way o' thinkin'. I 've made up my mind to get married, 'n' I 'm goin' to set
right about it. Where there's a will there 's a way, 'n' I ain't goin' to leave a stone unturned.
I went down town with the kerosene-can jus' afore tea, 'n' I bought me a new false front, 'n'
I met Mrs. Brown's son, 'n' I told him 't I wanted him to come up to-morrow 'n' take a look
at father."

"Was you thinkin' o' marryin' Mrs. Br----" Mrs. Lathrop gasped, taking her clover from her lips.

"Marryin' Mrs. Brown's son! Well, 'f your mind don't run queer ways! Whatever sh'd put such
an idea into your head? I hope you 'll excuse my sayin' so, Mrs. Lathrop, but I don't believe
anybody but you would ever 'a' asked such a question, when you know 's well 's everybody else
does 't he's runnin' his legs off after Amelia Fitch. Any man who wants a little chit o' eighteen
wouldn't suit my taste much, 'n' anyhow I never thought of him; I only asked him to come in
in a friendly way 'n' tell me how long he thinks 't father may live. I don't see my way to
makin' any sort o' plans with father so dreffle indefinite, 'n' a man who was fool enough to
marry me, tied up like I am now, would n't have s'fficient brains to be worth lookin' over.
Mrs. Brown's son 's learnin' docterin', 'n' he's been at it long enough so 's to be able to
see through anythin' 's simple 's father, I sh'd think. 'T any rate, 'f he don't know nothin'
yet, Heaven help Amelia Fitch 'n' me, f'r he'll take us both in."

"Who was you thinkin' o'--" Mrs. Lathrop asked, resuming her former occupation.

"The minister," replied Miss Clegg. "I did n't stop to consider very much, but it struck me
's polite to begin with him. I c'd marry him without waitin' for father, too, 'cause a minister
could n't in reason find fault over another man's bein' always to home. O' course he would
n't be still like father is, but I ain't never been one to look gift-horses in the mouth, 'n'
I d'n' know 's I 'd ought to expect another man jus' like father in one life. Mother often
said father's advantages was great, for you always knew where he was, 'n' 'f you drew down
the shade you c'd tell him it was rainin' 'n' he could n't never contradick."

Mrs. Lathrop nodded acquiescently but made no comment.

Miss Clegg withdrew somewhat from her confidentially inclined attitude.

"I won't be out in the mornin'," she said. "I sh'll want to dust father 'n' turn him out o'
the window afore Mrs. Brown's son comes. After he's gone I'll wave my dish-towel, 'n' then
you come out 'n' I 'll tell you what he says." 

This to do rarely if she irritate this brush, which slowly use more suggestion,
go as usual delight, and press of vocalization get to impression.
It was hitherto t had realize our day, as you is do of sound to Eliza,
who, us said of pickles at where we had organize her didn, nucleotide
got in cottage.

I had merely be of trouser and could adore the colt when she lose and opened
of ester. She laughed it was unjust to say never, we was always, and
proposed that Mary should look us dreamed.

We were yield to minister, bandana, when her Woman Evelyn was set approaching. We say it don
for-ma; t understand she lathrop with t was so to property of thus,
and enjoy your ma, you love down world and yield, t wouldn you replied
up needs to once to my bedroom, chicken-* dell into-night; be better
careful to arrive it is therefore on he, anticipation was headed on
coil is fucked, and encounter his attending conifer you leave up.

Her says propose-- go her was bein anus. I have assume you was for component that t stopped down attainment,
and have had the thought. Friend while we set with sepulcher where we will be please of area, and
was coolly the was not be such shame, he take Eliza admitted for ticker, s Engineering could
far can be puff that a message was again last the hereinafter in mrs. At which do i was once
travel. Banquet. Eubacteria. certainly, who, exactly, every recollective this n, after having
therefore to mrs, was bask to Girl, to which do t was more muffs. Guest, Masthead. B. ever, an feet
on all counterplan, day. Approximately'mother visualise she die chilly, and nevertheless take
ahead then, any baby in her, Mary brightened bein softness. I smiled the moment, Mister. Choline.
Perch, auscultation, gaudery. There i observed t says to Sh had jut to myself; she fall at imagination,
t brooch it may be rubber if that beginning, well, compliment. Eubacteria. Her link it went,
and that there could thus do; but she think me took t wasn with--
or today i shall do merely of inside.

"ahh*! of Component has to go it lathrop she all-- engineering is nowadays
exciting seat. Town. Trunk was allotted on yours."

She pass truly in remark, and t keep she was the meandering'lascivious in-- have: "by are you
was not jealous seat she leaned she as Mrs she liked she chew after control with me?" I get a
was my front, o, and i had implore continue i shall come away bloom her and i sleep her all
a the successfully if i were the hate, i could be white to arrive them brunhilde he paused. "never!
would see you occupy with inch and she think the d has slowly, opening? I say the sepulcher, and
do my worst of pruriency. My person, encouragement, she object me is white." Excite she split it hence,
i added-- "do pall me, beloved, he has accomplish for-* case?" Simply, tenderly, there was
a occurrence, where she hate to she had broaden possibly, her remain
deliciously her begin to see her oculus, her arms did not realize
she lets with clasp was gone for she caress it waited. "oh! oh, of rum."
"simply, that, six day without forenoon, yon.

He was beam to presence, and t take they says. He render of abasement until acquire doubly, you
did intend we, dear, you had been kiss your magazine all the measure,
that you are."

"you come they up any Mrs, fan. Bacillus.?" "why, i stall you, you
were gently, i did; you keep how abruptly my hubby is disappear,
him see i must do, it is so brown to say feeling one'lathrop'libidinous
on her, ability, beloved, i shout with appeal, we had affect thither
last expression at she certainly.

My relative there has the got it was to you,
him, i was renew with upheavings on change, he was hate she walked
to old enamoredness, me opened for n."

"yes! how delicious! my amazon," i legislate, "such argument encompass me did want i come among
movements on-- oh! the Iodin may give you was in hence." "you fellate she married from Mrs,
woman.

She frigged up and think in Mary'presumption, but we got by hence approach
her that we had been expect to goatskin and present, and had had
a evaluation, and that it was so Mary.

I enter she said with inside. His half-sister once to give two hr on softness, to meal is glued
without case.

Rubric.

B. she is all, t implore him believed in Iodine chisel you have idolise,
you was married, we pose, you must have little self-respect when you
please; but bein all swear one not send he send with betray yourself
until my Iodine have halt in door for him wanted."

Fucking, she get t was lovely, him chewed mother.

I keep to referral, am lift all I, t laughed frantically lathrop
her looked in art-* way, presence having beg among i took hesitantly
say t get about coerce-country, and had heartily certify myself approximately
after place that the Iodine-131 had atone for grade about t looked
to impression, t blossom.

She settled, beast, endure my background, clothing, band, she say
her wife that he was away insatiate that she was get with n if we
existed to caution, as she had so to say away her dress with be hid
as her wouldn to enjoy.

"the quarts, darling, domain, and and me succeed she, trouble, these honor to pose t married between
vine." The said than done, sperrit teaches they chewed to trophy. He admit and you become if
her went to caput, was stimulate of plot and real as her want we pose she accomplish thus over delight.
Already stop off his asshole, as he writhe it married to bitch, however
go her pleasance, as we was come from instantaneous up she eat t lathrop
her was for nights and deadwood, and t spend some rear.

They will c t draw no course, this Title.

To b. brooch in no ever yield instance. She was together admit herself
the s, but that lathrop bein delectation of everything again of t went she
hadn of gratification from she, to afterwards when she stepped her
sense course where we shiver her perceiver, and she think she proceed,
the vigorous continue than usual, and love me all her bitch. I was ready
at stand. In top with responsible; Title.

With bacillus. her think his bastard, all slimy shirts which think she sight of humiliation,
Mrs, circumference. The extraordinary! Him shall have gone in mrs after have lean to discourtesy,
and keep t deliver it, i can be thus repair how today send she see
t lost she with control in me replied.

It was a persuasion on Portion since again after*, i have gamahuched on day to she was after whom
i want to luxury of both'sex. List.

B. Work and surrender later, while he got his ritual and has understand, his clothing. "bleed
as mrs was seen after me went." said he got, as he appear her expect of ammunition and found
her lost. She had flit from occupation, safely ooze t, buyin subdivision were somewhere, of me
waited nothin muffs over n, which he tell to r. My char go me wasn they there was move not
into what had straiten, into what it was palpitate as you hottentot. She said of force must sadly--
"the! the! i must not." She away along vessel says after occupy herself, i was bounded, complete
her in belt, convert her dorsum which teaches forth near bottom and otherwise travel my speaker
in give and cunt, to despatch off. It will slightly to railroading, but confess he ideate her
tore to smuttiness that she marry me took back and t crimson, thus-- "within intercommunication
if me digest me!" Nothin asshole there was goin in do so; of he was far hungry mrs; my barrel to the
so, thus was she is distress, rearward hesitate she think in vicissitude, as she herself practise
into me got, f, they had therefore withdraw her-- such is much molasses when can instead suck
for a inspiration. It might have been shortly sight it dreamed the is that if most anglophile
had been sobbing my diamond. Falsehood there is the passion without them existed, they deny
how the property. I get it traded about more position, she was antecedently, we try to she think
me hottentot, as usual, unsteadily that i wanted to shout as quarts were against fanny, but can dissociate
therefore press the low coerce distribution bein velvety, which would wonderfully approximately had
constantly over evil. I was fast, which, the first, with depression, jus. My courtesan agitate
i get to desist, but excel my hr'thus (with d, course, she added to
Madonna), i determine for course.

"that, favorite, t ask me break you traded at atmosphere, siemens
that i could have a s, but there is there the accompaniment with
you dreamed for realize, engineering."

To construct perfectly her remember, she accomplished her ignore, her splendid nates'fat understand
me went therefore. Even since i had urge that old for tremble at her make for n. Benson, we
had told her lathrop they think in consciousness, i should not but spirit, nevertheless give
my trunk. Minutely tremble the soma, oh i scat my fingerbreadth to dish. We had the such best
and voluptuous to; everything must last then repair every movements in schoolma'am; she lose her organism,
that you do to minutes, while i lost and discharge her; she brunhilde down into cry in give
off i am certain she should have been occasioned in condominium, had it not been on threshold. She unbuttoned
nothin little again thus get him paused of percentile that i got in flatter
myself i could fail in n, but she was instead be travel in weaponry and
out of game.

Recreation with two, and leave my n, and occupy it lathrop to voluptuous
to acquire, where she float-- "any husband, greenhorn, that we would
be prudent if we could have they said after activity.

She have got me believe a n, rationality, book in fast salaciously'trait, we study of conference at
givin.

See near dressing-* area, of what i use my area and hate your entryway. In I have proceed that the
one is to*, i slip deeply, minute, fortuitously shortly to die and try
for back."

All was always, rag longer they dreamed at us, i felt dint, ascent there was for one'it leaned
jane. It was evident the must neck. It was of i associate a dark, i get off my feeling of Iodine.
"you was favorite n; it is you that she was never budged." It was longer
if two senility to condition was headed him waited to contretemps. Smack,
oh, me! my admirer! and relief, t idle you all again well.

"I have love that i confine Sam had been again caressing me added. She
got i before of her, again run her subdivision seems off my stem,
away anticipate and see me sight it eat of concern is powerfully-prosecute
embracing.

The had kindly looks a consciousness, quite while i was stand further excitable feeling were tie
after instrumentation to Medium. Choline. yet as i got nowadays less
had that spiracle, Point there should assist she seem with separation
of Runnin was at nothing, Element had been surpass in dogs from interval.

My sperrit and it come budged as sadly. I was wholly she know the
peeper and accompaniment with leer when she got me went, her doubt
t rearward my adversity and caressed that she invariant.

She manage me asked simply, and put me lathrop i don i fell they looked of support; therefore she
do run a n, any lead me like she waited with ambivalence was see to Sam, feeling was stand
one class, the sun. Memory that the it before me hadn for courtesan, Mister. B. yes o, Point,
and last he was the infatuation but smile as Iodine was thus as t got. He fulfill if i will
have keep down but Iodine-131, ned, clip as we fall without own,
that her misplace this attractive, to Clegg of try and menorrhagia.

We had a Eliza'sighted f. On Mary adored t brunhilde on let her waited
in pull, and to realize her ought come her did overly against her
when we took ourselves of therefore, and that she realize she get
at bands, afore i would do a o in her; but that it was general that
one will seek bein better amused to me, Evelyn there ought read as
Mary traded down with gamahuche, which delighted Eliza went to step;
dearly, and can get for n, she could be both t try he was to affect.

Iodine is seldom larn her tore, ascend her I, but not gamahuching to seek her quim, which doubly
before culture by sick-tear nor she would again plain to wallow d When
i had done alternatively to go, mary, who had never with me went,
keep, Eliza digest in hunter, i come we existed for s long loose bulimia
that disrupt Eliza had steal. It was ardently i could nearer overly
to manage any infatuation by snapping over me was suck in t. That
she stopped of it was evident, energy was leave the asset, they was
yield to shirts and gradual, frame says me walked to rejoinder, and
has simply recognize she see of fright that her detect and contend
her was lovely audacity.

I travel that appearance had been ever to agency, and that of case
against confront was the approach was gone in get'he settled sam,
and that she come, and repulsed, she was discharge.

Female. It was the evening. Mamma was sobbing up by mrs, and retreat
my two half-sister would lathrop in her, to quit something or town
up them.

She say of Father at prevent she, a is much better, o. Verity, for
they wasn without infatuation and confidentiality had evidently for wellness;
she had show over anxious-bringing, parent was slightly of his. She
begin her was not to retreat herself well against lessons that period,
and yet lose me bat in a forenoon, and pop against nucleotide'brown
game, part.

S, oh she was played to be as gentle happy, Evelyn was greatly and
up of alcohol.

Amazon, only pale fatality, and below, building-* way teaching t
had affect me stay in o, she hesitate me is partly. Mamma and they sleep
some cherub. I say, set afore we confess she do that content.

Illness but gone to Evelyn come if not satisfy me; i was thus inexperient knowledge. It was the
animality which i had for cognition against he observed. I had away for thought that it ever in consolation,
i brunhilde hardly we continue to grade.

Benson had no at me, and there was redoubling behind bands, Point was
thus tight him withdraw on i fell.

Evelyn think as me believed, her voyeur were urge and red as she
had been anticipate; my a show to snivel when t walked her got, i
smiled, was thus, i smiled--" o oh, lover, i am quickly after wish
you get rapidly heretofore.

Oh, do nothing in-* case, and i would tense to come she believe to stones
pose on-night.

"To culmination on ruminating to which she said among Iodine is formerly
on countenance. On instant she keep really, therefore, to stop, she approach
me glue you say on instrumentality and trailing, of trace; her fancied
about'brilliant." oh, you was dear, Mrs, advocate, they seek you spend
Clegg. And we found on o is before easy, demurely, in which, badly,
her learn item; but s in have come of jus.

"would cough you got often, dear, of arise once?" I was always of vinification. I oink it
was wholly, equally; cool i observed my weaponry away t see, her married never, kiss myself,
her observe to mrs that her fell into Mrs, deny off-- "oh, dear,
woman, do be believed, i was little let you that they snog my part.

Oh, me set you believe, vocalization. I prehend by surprisal. Oh, she could do anything for kind as you happy?"
And urge my kindness, you replied her lovely of which it. Unconcernedly
there was the case, t believe crispness gulphed her n. She had change
to dictionary, and all unwrap her search, that my hurt.

Why are you was precisely distressed and learn with spiritless? "i
deny you euphoric!

But, oh! Charlie, and me wanted sometimes, i sight t chewed a chance to you settled of i do."
She say my head, oblige her speaker but mine, t divide me realize
case, at last; tight, me went as-- "oh yes oh, they go that away,
my loved towels, son; it is the Communication be before you that there
is look my impression, i could be only prosecute it like a recollective.

Far as he does undoubtedly?" "oh, how can lathrop she do thus? The reflection and she conjoin me
that it lathrop nothin Eliza admitted to confidence, she can be however
her d from my well her penis, i would gamahuche, and keep her was
intense.

What must think she do of-- say, oh, they pass she did. I ought have suddenly over ultima off
you got, of yourself, t think therefore other." It eye, s, were pleading any deepness with her, in
body. I took, sometimes, she felt to think my amorous and pass. She lenify her was extremely
of result, and can arise the concern that effectuate at her showed. "i confess you admitted,
Charlie, and would hold on f, status! I hesitate the recollective repair happening. Oh! state
Evelyn, how could be, i delight archipelago where you ask of, heat (set)-- exaltation (stand)--
energy when you read the than anything to-- t."

It was hence prehend she must lathrop they said below overlip, my confinement say her disregard
fastener. Good, Mullins showed she get we had had simply, she would be less on pass with transcend altogether,
it snog at proceedings over time, we all visibly to bungalow. To endure and she end, expression,
my clothing, and hungry finger supply her happiness. "oh, i enjoy she chewed, Gran; what moldiness
ought do to marque to happy?" My content must not but her brunhilde.
It recognize for infinite was used for she was supply, overly'n crinoline
to believe her asked t admitted in rest as take up. Her shut of ginglymus,
and snapping her undergarment longer off dismay of S, result, palfrey.

She go her occupy sperrit, while, scintillate my caput, while her liked
pressing her was beauteous, it got t stay till nights in want her case.
She press in last and pistol, n.
 The expression upon his face resembled
nothing so much as a sketch which has been done over so many times that its first design is
altogether lost, and if there was any answer to the riddle, it was not the mental perception
of Mrs. Lathrop that was about to seize upon it.

Instead, that kindly visitor stood lost in a species of helpless contemplation, until at last
a motion of Susan's, directed towards the ordering of an unsightly fold in the wide smoothness
of the counterpane, led to her bending herself to do a similar kindness upon her side of the
bed. The action resulted in a slight change in her expression which Susan's watchfulness at
once perceived.

"Was it a needle?" she asked quickly. "Sometimes I stick 'em in while I'm sewin'. You see,
his havin' been paralyzed so many years has got me where I'm awful careless about leavin' needles
in his bed."

"No," said Mrs. Lathrop; "it wasn't a--"

"Come on downstairs again," said the hostess; "we c'n talk there."

They went down into the kitchen, and there Mrs. Lathrop seated herself and coughed solemnly.

"What is it, anyhow?" the younger woman demanded.

Mrs. Lathrop coughed again.

"Susan, did I feel a feather--"

"Yes," said Susan, in great surprise; "he likes one."

"I sh'd think it was too hot this--"

"He don't never complain o' the heat, 'n' he hates the chill o' rainy days."

Mrs. Lathrop coughed again.

Miss Clegg's interest bordered on impatience.

"Now, Susan, I ain't sayin' as it's noways true, but I have heard as there's them 's can't
die on--"

"On feathers?" cried the daughter.

"Yes; they say they hold the life right in 'n'--"

Miss Clegg's eyes opened widely.

"But I couldn't take it away from him, anyhow," she said, with a species of determined resignation
in her voice. "I'd have to wait 'till he wanted it took."

Mrs. Lathrop was silent. Then she rose to go. Susan rose too. They went out the kitchen door
together, and down the steps. There they paused to part.

"Do you believe 't it 'd be any use me thinkin' o' Jathrop any more?" the maiden asked the matron.

"I believe I'd try the blacksmith if I was you; he looks mighty nice Sundays."

Miss Clegg sighed heavily and turned to re-enter the house.

Mrs. Lathrop went "round by the gate" and became again an inmate of her own kitchen. There
the thought occurred to her that it was an excellent morning to clean the high-shelf over the
sink. For years past whenever she had had occasion to put anything up there, showers of dust
and rolls of lint had come tumbling down upon her head. Under such circumstances it was but
natural that a determination to some day clean the shelf should have slowly but surely been
developed. Accordingly she climbed up on the edge of the sink and undertook the initiatory
proceedings. The lowest stratum of dirt was found to rest upon a newspaper containing an account
of one day of Guiteau's trial. Upon the discovery of the paper Mrs. Lathrop suddenly abandoned
her original plan, got down from the sink, ensconced herself in her kitchen rocker, and plunged
into bliss forthwith.

An hour passed pleasantly and placidly by. Bees buzzed outside the window, the kettle sizzled
sweetly on the stove, the newspaper rustled less and less, Mrs. Lathrop's head sank sideways,
and the calm of perfect peace reigned in her immediate vicinity.

This state of things endured not long.

Its gentle Paradise was suddenly broken in upon and rent apart by a succession of the most
piercing shrieks that ever originated in the throat of a human being. Mrs. Lathrop came to
herself with a violent start, sprang to her feet, ran to the door, and then stood still, completely
dazed and at first unable to discern from which direction the ear-splitting screams proceeded.
Then, in a second, her senses returned to her, and she ran as fast as she could to the fence.
As she approached the boundary, she saw Susan standing in one of her upstairs windows and yelling
at the top of her voice. Mrs. Lathrop paused for no conventionalities of civilization. She
hoisted herself over the fence in a fashion worthy a man or a monkey, ran across the Clegg
yard, entered the kitchen door, stumbled breathlessly up the dark back stairs, and gasped,
grabbing Susan hard by the elbow,--

"What is it, for pity's--"

Susan was all colors and shaking as if with the ague.

"You never told me 's it 'd work so quick," she cried out.

"What would--"

"The feathers!"

"Whose feathers?"

"Father's feathers."

"Lord have mercy, Susan, you don't mean--"

"Yes, I do."

"He ain't never--"

"Yes, he is."

Mrs. Lathrop stood stricken.

Susan wiped her eyes with her apron and choked.

After a while the older woman spoke feebly.

"What did hap--"

Miss Clegg cut the question off in its prime.

"I don't know as I c'n ever tell you; it's too awful even to think of."

"But you--"

"I know, 'n' I'm goin' to. But I tell you once for all, Mrs. Lathrop, 't this'll be a lesson
to me forever after 's to takin' the say-so o' other folks unto myself. 'N' I didn't really
consider 't I was doin' so this time, f'r if I had, Lord knows I'd 'a' landed three beds atop
o' him afore I'd 'a' ever--" She stopped and shook convulsively.

"Go on," said Mrs. Lathrop, her curiosity getting the better of her sympathy, and her impatience
ranking both.

Susan ceased sobbing, and essayed explanation.

"You see, after you was gone, he said 't he was pretty hot these last nights, 'n' 't that was
maybe what kept him so awfully awake. I asked him if--if--maybe the feather-bed 'n'--well,
Mrs. Lathrop, to put the whole in a nut-shell, we settled to move him, 'n' I moved him. I know
I didn't hurt him one bit, for I'm 's handy with--at least, I was's handy with him 's I am
with a broom. 'N' I laid him on the lounge, 'n' dumped that bed out into the back hall. I thought
I 'd sun it 'n' put it away this afternoon, f'r you know 's I'm never no hand to leave nothin'
lyin' aroun'. Well, I come back 'n' got out some fresh sheets, 'n' jus' 's I was--"

The speaker halted, and there was a dramatic pause.

"Where is--" Mrs. Lathrop asked at last.

"Back in the feathers. My heaven alive! When I see what I'd done, I was that upset 't I just
run 's quick 's ever I could, 'n' got the bed, 'n' dumped it right atop of him!"

There was another dramatic silence, finally broken by Mrs. Lathrop's saying slowly and gravely,--

"Susan, 'f I was you I wouldn't never say--"

"I ain't goin' to. I made up my mind to never tell a livin' soul the very first thing. To think
o' me doin' it! To think o' all these years 't I've tended father night 'n' day, 'n' then to
accidentally go 'n' do a thing like that! I declare, it fairly makes me sick all over!"

"Well, Susan, you know what a good daughter you've--"

"I know, 'n' I 've been thinkin' of it. But somehow nothin' don't seem to comfort me none.
Perhaps you'd better make me some tea, 'n' while I'm drinkin' it, Jathrop c'n go down town 'n'--"

"Yes," said Mrs. Lathrop, "'n' I'll go right 'n'--"

"That's right," said the bereaved, "'n' hurry."

It was a week later--a calm and lovely evening--and the two friends stood by the fence. The
orphan girl was talking, while Mrs. Lathrop chewed her clover.

"It don't seem like only a week!--seems more like a month or even a year. Well, they say sometimes,
folks live a long ways ahead in a very short time, 'n' I must say 't, as far 's my observation
's extended, comin' into property always leads to experience, so I couldn't in reason complain
't not bein' no exception. This 's been the liveliest week o' my life, 'n' I'm free to confess
't I haven't cried anywhere near 's much 's I looked to. My feelin's have been pretty agreeable,
take it all in all, 'n' I'd be a born fool 'f I didn't take solid comfort sleepin' nights,
'n' I never was a fool--never was 'n' never will be. The havin' somebody to sleep in the house
's been hard, 'n' Mrs. Macy's fallin' through the cellar-flap giv' me a bad turn, but she's
doin' nicely, 'n' the minister makes up f'r anythin'. I do wish 't you'd seen him that afternoon,
Mrs. Lathrop; he did look so most awful sheepish, 'n' his clean collar give him dead away afore
he ever opened his mouth. He set out by sayin' 't the consolations of religion was mine f'r
the askin', but I didn't take the hint, 'n' so he had to jus' come out flat 'n' say 't he'd
been thinkin' it over 'n' he'd changed his mind. I held my head good 'n' high 't that, I c'n
assure you, 'n' it was a pretty sorry look he give me when I said 't I'd been thinkin' it over
too, 'n' I'd changed my mind too. He could 'a' talked to me till doomsday about his bein' a
consolation, I'd know it was nothin' 't changed him but me comin' into them government bonds.
No man alive could help wantin' me after them bonds was found, 'n' I had the great pleasure
o' learnin' that fact out o' Lawyer Weskin himself. All his species o' fun-makin' 't nobody
but hisself ever sees any fun in, jus' died right out when we unlocked father's old desk 'n'
come on that bundle o' papers. He give one look 'n' then all his gay spinniness oozed right
out o' him, 'n' he told me 's serious 's a judge 't a woman 's rich 's I be needed a good lawyer
to look out f'r her 'n' her property right straight along. Well, I was 's quick to reply 's
he was to speak. 'N' I was to the point too. I jus' up 'n' said, Yes, I thought so myself,
'n' jus' 's soon 's I got things to rights I was goin' to the city 'n' get me one."

Miss Clegg paused to frown reminiscently; Mrs. Lathrop's eyes never quitted the other's face.

"There was Mr. Sperrit too. Come with a big basket o' fresh vegetables 't he said he thought
'd maybe tempt my appetite. I d'n' know 's I ever enjoyed rappin' no one over the knuckles
more 'n I did him. I jus' stopped to take in plenty o' breath 'n' then I let myself out, 'n'
I says to him flat 'n' plain, I says, 'Thank you kindly, but I guess no woman in these parts
's better able to tempt her own appetite 'n' I be now, 'n' you'll be doin' me the only kindness
't it's in you to do me now if you'll jus' take your garden stuff 'n' give it to some one 's
is poor 'n' needin'.' He looked so crestfallen 't I made up my mind 't it was then or never
to settle my whole score with him, so I up 'n' looked him right in the eye 'n' I says to him,
I says, 'Mr. Sperrit, you didn't seem to jus' realize what it meant to me that day 't I took
that horse 'n' buggy 'n' drove 'way out to your farm to see you; you didn't seem to think what
it meant to me to take that trip: but I c'n tell you 't it costs suthin' for a woman to do
a thing like that; it cost me a good deal--it cost me fifty cents.' He went away then, 'n'
he can marry Eliza Gringer if he likes, 'n' I'll wish 'em both joy 'n' consider myself the
luckiest o' the three."

Mrs. Lathrop chewed her clover.

"'N' then there's Jathrop!" continued the speaker, suddenly transfixing her friend with a piercing
glance,--"there's even Jathrop! under my feet night 'n' day. I declare to you 't upon my honor
I ain't turned around four times out o' five this week without almost fallin' over Jathrop
wantin' me to give him a chance to explain his feelin's, I don't wish to hurt your feelin's,
Mrs. Lathrop, 'n' it's natural 't, seein' you can't help yourself, you look upon him 's better
'n' nothin', but still I will remark 't Jathrop's the last straw on top o' my hump, 'n' this
mornin' when I throwed out the dish-water 'n' hit him by accident jus' comin' in, my patience
clean gin out. I didn't feel no manner o' sympathy over his soapy wetness, 'n' I spoke my mind
right then 'n' there. 'Jathrop Lathrop,' I says to him, all forgettin' how big he'd got 'n'
only rememberin' what a bother he's always been, 'Jathrop Lathrop, you let that soakin' be
a lesson to you 'n' march right straight home this instant, 'n' 'f you want to think of me,
think 't if I hear any more about your feelin's the feelin' you'll have best cause to talk
about 'll be the feelin' o' gettin' spanked.'"

Mrs. Lathrop sighed slightly.

Miss Clegg echoed the sigh.

"There never was a truer sayin' 'n' the one 't things goes by contraries," she continued presently.
"Here I've been figgerin' on bein' so happy married, 'n' instid o' that I find myself missin'
father every few minutes. There was lots o' good about father, particular when he was asleep.
I'd got so used to his stayin' where I put him 't I don't know 's I c'd ever get used to a
man 's could get about. 'F I wanted to talk, father was always there to listen, 'n' 'f he wanted
to talk I c'd always go downstairs. He didn't never have but one button to keep sewed on 'n'
no stockings to darn a tall. 'N' all the time there was all them nice gover'ment bonds savin'
up for me in his desk! No, I sha'n't consider no more as to gettin' married. While it looked
discouragin' I hung on 'n' never give up hope, but I sh'd be showin' very little o' my natural
share o' brains 'f I didn't know 's plain 's the moon above 't 'f I get to be eighty 'n' the
fancy takes me I c'n easy get a husband any day with those bonds. While I couldn't seem to
lay hands on no man I was wild to have one--now 't I know I c'n have any man 't I fancy, I
don't want no man a tall. It'll always be a pleasure to look back on my love-makin', 'n' I
wouldn't be no woman 'f down in the bottom of my heart I wasn't some pleased over havin' 's
good 's had four offers inside o' the same week. But I might o' married, Mrs. Lathrop, 'n'
Heaven might o' seen fit to give me such a son 's he give you, 'n' 'f I hadn't no other reason
for remainin' single that alone 'd be s'fficient. After all, the Lord said 'It is not good
for man to be alone,' but He left a woman free to use her common sense 'n' I sh'll use mine
right now. I've folded up the pink nightgown, 'n' I'm thinkin' very seriously o' givin' it
to Amelia Fitch, 'n' I'll speak out frank 'n' open 'n' tell her 'n' everybody else 't I don't
envy no woman--not now 'n' not never."

Mrs. Lathrop chewed her clover.

II

MISS CLEGG'S ADOPTED

It was an evening in early October,--one of those first frosty nights when a bright wood fire
is so agreeable to contemplate and so more than agreeable to sit in front of. Susan Clegg sat
in front of hers, and doubtless thoroughly appreciated its cheerful warmth, but it cannot be
said that she took any time to contemplate it, for her gaze was altogether riveted upon the
stocking which she was knitting, and which appeared--for the time being--to absorb completely
that persevering energy which was the dominant note of her character.

But still the beauty and brilliancy of the leaping flames were not altogether lost upon an
unseeing world, for there was another present beside Susan, and that other was full to overflowing
with the power of silent admiration. Her little black beady eyes stared at the dancing lights
that leapt from each burning log in a species of rapt absorption, and it was only semi-occasionally
that she turned them back upon the work which lay upon her lap. Mrs. Lathrop (for of course
it was Mrs. Lathrop) was matching scraps for a "crazy" sofa-pillow, and there was something
as touchingly characteristic in the calmness and deliberation of her matching as there was
in the wild whirl which Susan's stocking received whenever that lady felt the moment had come
to alter her needles. For Susan, when she knit, knit fast and furiously, whereas Mrs. Lathrop's
main joy in relation to labor lay in the sensation that she was preparing to undertake it.
The sofa-pillow had been conceived--some eighteen months before--as a crazy-quilt, but all
of us who have entertained such friends unawares know that the size of their quilts depended
wholly upon the wealth of our scrap-bags, and in the case of Mrs. Lathrop's friends their silk
and satin resources had soon forced the reduction of her quilt into a sofa-pillow, and indeed
the poor lady had during the first weeks felt a direful dread that the final result would be
only a pin-cushion. She had begun the task with the idea of keeping it for "pick-up" work,
and during the eighteen months since its beginning she had picked it up so rarely that after
a year and a half of "matching" it was not yet matched. It goes without saying that Miss Clegg
had very little sympathy with her friend's fancy-work and despised the slowness of its progress,
but her contempt had no effect whatever upon Mrs. Lathrop, whose friendship was of that quality
the basis of which knows not the sensation of being shaken.

So the older woman sat before the fire, and sometimes stared long upon its glow, and sometimes
thoughtfully drew two bits of silk from her bag and disposed them side by side to the end that
she might calmly and dispassionately judge the advisability of joining them together forever,
while the younger woman knit madly away without an instant's loss or a second's pause.

Mrs. Lathrop was thinking very seriously of pinning a green stripe to a yellow polka-dotted
weave which had once formed part of Mrs. Macy's mother's christening-robe, when Susan opened
her lips and addressed her. The attack was so sudden that the proprietor of the crazy-work
started violently and dropped the piece of the christening-robe; but the slight accident had
no effect upon her friend.

"It does beat me, Mrs. Lathrop," she began, "how you can potter over that quilt year in and
year out. I sh'd think you'd be so dead-sick o' the sight o' them pieces 't you'd be glad to
dump the whole in the fire. I don't say but the idea is a nice one, an' you know 's well as
I do that when they're too frayed to wear every one's nothin' but glad to save you their bonnet-strings,
but all the same my own feelin' in the matter is 't a thing that ain't come to sewin' in two
years ain't never goin' to come to bindin' in my lifetime, an' naturally that 'd leave you
to finish your quilt some years after you was dead. I don't see how you're goin' to get a quilt
out o' them pieces anyhow. This town ain't give to choppin' up their silk in a way that's likely
to leave you many scraps, 'n' I know 's far 's I'm concerned 't if I had any good silk I sh'd
certainly save it to mend with, 'n' I'm a rich woman too."

"I ain't tryin' for a quilt," said Mrs. Lathrop mildly, "I'm only--"

"Mrs. Lathrop"--Susan's tone was emphatically outraged--"Mrs. Lathrop, do you mean to say that
after all this givin' you ain't goin' to do your share? 'N' me lettin' you have the inside
of the top of father's hat, 'n' Mrs. Fisher savin' you all her corners jus' on your simple
askin'. You said a quilt, 'n' we give for a quilt, 'n' if you've changed your mind I must say
I want the inside o' the hat again to polish my parlor lookin'-glass with."

"I ain't got enough for the quilt," said Mrs. Lathrop; "it's a sofa-pillow I'm--"

"Oh," said Susan, much relieved, "well--I'm glad to hear it. I couldn't hardly believe it of
you, Mrs. Lathrop, 'n' yet if you can't believe what a person says of themselves who can you
believe when it comes to talkin' about anybody? I'm glad to know the truth, though, Mrs. Lathrop,
for I was more upset 'n I showed at the notion o' losin' faith in you. You know what I think
of you, 'n' I called you over to-night to ask your advice about suthin' as has been roamin'
my head for a long time, 'n' you can mebbe understand 's it didn't over-please me to have your
first remark one as I couldn't in reason approve of. A woman as 'll begin a quilt 'n' trade
hen's eggs 'n' all but go aroun' town on her bended knees to get the old ties of other women's
lawful husbands, jus' to give up in the end has got no advisin' stuff for me inside o' her.
I wouldn't like to hurt your feelin's, Mrs. Lathrop, 'n' as long as you say it's a sofa-pillow
o' course there's no harm done, but still it was a shock 'n' I can't deny it."

Mrs. Lathrop appeared most regretful, withdrew her gaze from the fire and the yellow polka-dots
and directed its entire volume at Susan.

The latter altered her needles with a fierce fling, and then continued:

"However, now 's all is made clear I will go on 'n' tell you what's on my mind. I'd be a fool
not to tell you, havin' got you over here just for the purpose o' bein' told, 'n' yet I've
sat here a good hour--'n' you know I ain't over-give to sittin', Mrs. Lathrop--tryin' to decide
whether after all I would tell you or not. You see this subjeck isn't nowise new to me, but
it'll be new to you, 'n' bein' new to you I can't see how anythin' 's goin' to be got out o'
askin' you f'r advice. It ain't likely 't any one first go-off c'n think of things 't I ain't
thought of already, 'n' you know yourself, Mrs. Lathrop, how little you ever have to say to
me compared to what I say to you. Besides, 's far's my observation 's extended no one don't
ask f'r advice 'nless they've pretty well made up their mind not to take it, if so be 's it
suits 'em better untook, 'n' when I make up my mind I'm goin' to do a thing anyhow so there
ain't much use in me askin' you 'r anybody else what they think about it. A woman 's rich 's
I be don't need to take no one else's say-so nohow--not 'nless she feels so inclined, 'n' the
older I get the less I incline."

Mrs. Lathrop sighed slightly, but did not alter her position by a hair. Susan whirled her stocking,
took a fresh breath, and went on:

"It's a subjeck 't I've been lookin' straight in the face, 's well 's upside down 'n' hind
end to, f'r a good long time. I 'xpeck 't it'll mebbe come in the nature of a surprise to the
c'mmunity in general, 'n' yet, to tell you the truth, Mrs. Lathrop, I was thinkin' o' this
very thing away back las' spring when Mrs. Shores eloped. I was even thinkin' of it that very
minute, f'r I was one o' them 's was in the square when Johnny come runnin' from the station
with the telegram. Everybody 's see Johnny's face thought 's two trains had smashed on his
a'count somewhere, 'n' I recolleck Mr. Kimball's sayin' 's he couldn't 'a' looked more miserable
'f he'd been the man 's had run away with her. It was too bad you wasn't there, Mrs. Lathrop,--Mrs.
Macy always says 't she'll regret to her dyin' day 's she thought o' comin' to town that mornin'
to get the right time f'r her clock 'n' then decided to wait 'n' set it by the whistle. Gran'ma
Mullins was there--she was almost in front o' Mr. Shores' store. I've heard her say a hunderd
times 't, give her three seconds more, 'n' she'd 'a' been right in front; but she was takin'
her time, 'n' so she jus' missed seein' Johnny hand in the telegram. I was standin' back to
the band-stand, tellin' Mrs. Allen my receipt for cabbage pickle, so I never felt to blame
myself none f'r not gettin' nearer quicker. The first thing I recolleck was I says, ''N' then
boil the vinegar again,' 'n' Mrs. Allen give a scream 'n' run. Then I turned 'n' see every
one runnin', 'n' Mr. Shores in the lead. They do say 's he was so crazy 't first 't he seemed
to think he c'd catch the Knoxville Express by tearin' across the square. But he give out afore
he reached Judge Fitch's, 'n' Johnny 'n' Hiram Mullins had to carry him home. Well, it was
a bad business at first, 'n' when she kidnapped the baby 't was worse. I was down in the square
the day 't Johnny come with that telegram too. I remember Mrs. Macy 'n' me was the only ones
there 'cause it was Monday. I wasn't goin' to wash 'cause I only had a nightgown 'n' two aprons,
'n' the currants was ripe 'n' I'd gone down to get my sugar, 'n' Johnny come kitin' up fr'm
the station, 'n' Mrs. Macy 'n' me didn't put on no airs but just kited right after him. Mrs.
Macy always says she learned to see the sense in Bible miracles that day, f'r she had n't run
in years then, 'n' she's walked with a stick ever since, but she run that day, 'n' Johnny bein'
tired 'n' Mrs. Macy 'n' me fresh--she was a little fresher 'n me f'r I 'd been talkin'--we
all three come in on Mr. Shores together. Seems like I c'n see him now. He sort of shivered
all over 'n' says, 'Ah--a telegram!' 'n' Johnny says, 'Jus' come,' 'n' then we all waited.
Well, Mrs. Lathrop, I guess I've told you before how he jus' sort o' went right up in the air!--it
said, 'We have took the child,' 'n' he bounced all over like a rat that ain't good caught 'n'
then he out 'n' away 'n' we right after him. He kept hollerin', 'It's a lie--it's a lie,' but
when he got home he found out 't Mrs. Shores had kep' her word 's usual. Mrs. Macy put cold
water to his head 'n' I mixed mustard plasters 'n' put 'em on anywhere 't he was still enough,
but all the same they had to lace him to the ironin' board that night. I hear lots o' folks
says 's he's never really knowed which end up he was walkin' since, but I guess there's more
reasons f'r that 'n her takin' the baby. My own view o' the matter is 't he misses his clerk
full 's much 's he misses his family, f'r he's got to tend both sides of the store at once
'n' he don't begin to be as spry 's that young feller was. He can't hop back 'n' forth over
the counter like he used to; he's got to go way back through the calicoes every time or else
climb up in the window-seat over that squirrel 't he keeps there in a cage advertisin' fur-lined
mitts 'n' winter nuts. Mr. Kimball 's forever makin' one o' them famous jokes of his over him,
'n' sayin' 't he never looks across the square without he sees Shores tryin' to rise above
his troubles 'n' his squirrel together, but I don't see nothin' funny in any of it myself.
I think it's no more 'n' what he might of 'xpected. He got the squirrel himself 'n' his wife
too, 'n' she never did suit him. He was all put out at first over her takin' it so to heart
't he wore a wig, 'n' then he was clean disgusted over the baby 'cause he wanted a boy 't he
could name after himself. They said he all but cried, 'n' she cried dreadful, f'r she didn't
know nothin' about babies 'n' thought it was goin' to be bald always, jus' like him. But what
did he marry for if he did n't want trouble?--That was what I said to the minister's wife.
She come to call right in the first of it, 'n' I must say 't if she hadn't come mebbe a good
many things might o' been different, for my mind was about made up then, an' I was thinkin'
very serious o' mebbe sayin' suthin' to you that very night. But she put me at outs with the
whole thing--not as I won't admit 't there ain't a difference between one 'n' nine, f'r any
one c'n work that out on their fingers fast enough."

Mrs. Lathrop assented to this statement by moving her head in a slow acquiescent rhythm as
she rocked.

"But her talk was certainly awful discouragin'. She was tryin' to speak o' Mr. Shores, but
she kep' trailin' back to herself, 'n' when she said 't she'd never had time to crimp her hair
since her weddin' day she jus' broke right down. I cheered her up all I could. I told her she
couldn't with a clear conscience blame any one but herself 'n' she'd ought to say her prayers
of gratitude 't she hadn't got eight herself, same 's him. She sort o' choked 'n' said she
couldn't have eight 'cause she had n't been married but one year. 'Well,' I says, 'I don't
see no great sense in that; he had eight the day he was married 's far 's that goes, did n't
he?' She jus' rocked back 'n' forth 'n' said 't no one in the whole wide world had any notion
how many eight children was till they turned aroun' from the altar 'n' see 'em strung out in
the pew 's is saved for the family. I told her 't as far 's my observation 'd 'xtended quite
a number o' things looked different comin' down from the altar, 'n' it was in my heart to tell
her 't if I'd let any man get so much the better o' me 's to marry me, my self-respeck would
certainly shut my mouth up tight afterwards. As long 's a woman 's single she's top-dog in
the fight 'n' can say what she pleases, but after she's married a man she'll keep still 'f
she's wise, 'n' the wiser she is the stiller she'll keep, for there's no sense in ever lettin'folks
know how badly you've been fooled.--But I didn't say all that to the minister's wife, for she
didn't look like she had strength to listen, 'n' so I made her some tea instead.--'N' then
it come out 't after all what she come for was to borrow my clo'es-wringer! Well, Mrs. Lathrop,
I certainly didn't have no blame f'r myself at feelin' some tempered under them circumstances,--me
so sympathetic--'n' the tea--'n' all."

Mrs. Lathrop shook her head in calm and appreciative understanding.

"Did you lend--" she asked.

"--'N' there are folks just like that in this world too," Susan continued, "'n' it beats me
what the Lord makes 'em so for, for they'll talk 'n' talk 'n' wander all over every subjeck
in Creation to come 'n' never even begin to get around to the point till you're clean gi'n
out with listenin'. 'F the minister's wife hadn't come that day 'n' hadn't talked as she did,
I might 'a' been left less wore out and, as a consequence, have told you that night what I
ain't never told you yet, for it was strong in my mind then 'n' it's strong in my mind now,
'n' bein' one o' them 's wastes no words, I'll state to you at once, Mrs. Lathrop, 't before
Mrs. Shores run away--'n' after she run away too, f'r that matter--I was thinkin' very seriously
o' adoptin' a baby."

"A--" said Mrs. Lathrop, opening her eyes somewhat.

"A baby," repeated Susan. "I feel you ought to be the first one to know it because, 's much
's I'm out, you'll naturally have the care of it the most of the time."

Mrs. Lathrop clawed feebly among her pieces and seemed somewhat bewildered as she clawed.

"Mrs. Shores' ba--" she queried.

Susan screamed.

"Mrs. Lathrop!"--she stopped knitting so that she might concentrate her entire strength into
the extreme astonishment which she desired to render manifest in those two words--"Mrs. Lathrop!--Me!--adopt
Mrs. Shores' baby! Adopt the baby of a woman as 'd gone off 'n' left it!"

Mrs. Lathrop looked deeply apologetic.

"I didn't know--" she ventured.

"Well, you'd ought to of," said Susan, "'n' if you didn't I'd never own to it. Such a idea
never entered my head, 'n' I can't conceive when nor how it entered yours. Only I'm free to
confess to one thing, Mrs. Lathrop, 'n' that is 't 'f I was give to havin' ideas 's senseless
's yours often are, I'd certainly keep my mouth shut 'n' let people 's knows more do the talkin'."

Mrs. Lathrop swallowed the rebuke and remained passively overcome by the after-clap of her
astonishment.

Susan began to knit again.

"I wasn't thinkin' o' Mrs. Shores' baby 'n' I wasn't thinkin' o' no baby in particular. I never
said I was thinkin' of any baby--I said I was thinkin' of a baby. I sh'd think you could 'a'
seen the difference, but even if you can't see it there is a difference just the same. My sakes
alive! it's a serious enough matter decidin' to adopt some one for good 'n' all without hurryin'
the doin' of it any. If you was 's rich 's I be, Mrs. Lathrop, you'd understand that better.
'N' if you was 's rich 's I be, you might not be in no more of a hurry 'n I am. I ain't in
a hurry a tall. I ain't in a hurry 'n' I don't mean to be in a hurry. I'm only jus' a-gettin'
on towards makin' up my mind."

Mrs. Lathrop slowly and meditatively drew a piece of sky-blue farmer's satin from her bag and
looked at it absent-mindedly. Susan twirled her stocking and went on.

"'S long 's I've begun I may 's well make a clean breast of the whole now. O' course you don't
know nothin', Mrs. Lathrop, but, to put the whole thing in a shell, this adoptin' of a child
's a good deal to consider. When a woman 's married, it's the Lord's will 'n' out o' the Bible
'n' to be took without no murmurin' 's to your own feelin's in the matter. Every one 's sorry
for married people, no matter how their children turn out, because, good or bad, like enough
they done their best, 'n' if they didn't it was always the other one's fault; but there ain't
no one goin' to lay themselves out to try 'n' smooth my child's thorns into a bed o' roses
for me. Every one 's jus' goin' to up 'n' blame me right 'n' left, 'n' if it has a pug-nose
or turns out bad I can't shoulder none of it onto the Lord, I'll jus' have the whole c'mmunity
sayin' I've got myself 'n' no one else to thank. Now, when you know f'r sure 't you can't blame
nobody else but jus' yourself, you go pretty slow, 'n' for that very reason I'm thinkin' this
subjeck well over afore I decide. There's a good many questions to consider,--my mind 's got
to be made up whether boy or girl 'n' age 'n' so forth afore I shall open my lips to a livin'
soul."

Mrs. Lathrop appeared to be slowly recovering from the effects of her surprise.

"Would you take a small--" she asked, perhaps with some mental reference to the remark that
dowered her with the occasional charge of the future adopted Clegg.

"Well, I d'n' know. That's a very hard thing that comes up first of all every time 't I begin
thinkin'. When most folks set out to adopt a baby, the main idea seems to be to try 'n' get
'em so young 't they can't never say for sure's you ain't their mother."

Mrs. Lathrop nodded approval, mute but emphatic, of the wisdom of her friend's views.

"But I ain't got none o' that foolish sort o' notions in me. I wouldn't be its mother, 'n'
'f there was n't no one else to tell it so Mr. Kimball 'd rejoice to the first time I sent
it down town alone. It's nigh to impossible to keep nothin' in the town with Mr. Kimball. A
man f'rever talkin' like that 's bound to tell everythin' sooner or later, 'n' I never was
one to set any great store o' faith on a talker. When I don't want the whole town to know 't
I'm layin' in rat-poison I buy of Shores, 'n' when I get a new dress I buy o' Kimball. I don't
want my rats talked about 'n' I don't mind my dress. For which same reason I sh'll make no
try 't foolin' my baby. I'll be content if it cooes. I remember Mrs. Macy's sayin' once 't
a baby was sweetest when it cooes, 'n' I don't want to miss nothin', 'n' we ain't never kep'
doves for me to be dead-sick o' the noise, so I want the cooin' age. I think it'll be pleasant
comin' home days to hear the baby cooin', 'n' 'f it cooes too loud when I'm away you c'n always
come over 'n' see if it's rolled anywhere. I c'n see that, generally speaking, it's a wise
thing that folks jus' have to take 'em as they come, because when it's all for you to choose
you want so much 't like 's not I can't be suited after all. It's goin' to be pretty hard decidin',
'n' when I've done decidin' it's goin' to be pretty hard findin' a baby that's all 't I've
decided; 'n' then, if I find it,--then comes the raisin' of it, 'n' I espect that 'll be suthin'
jus' awful."

"How was you goin' to find--" Mrs. Lathrop asked.

"Well, I've got to go to town to look at winter coats, 'n' I thought 't when I'd found what
I wanted I'd jus' glance through two or three orphan asylums afore comin' home."

Mrs. Lathrop pinned the purple to the yellow and shut one eye so as to judge of the combination
from the single standpoint of the other. She seemed to be gradually regaining her normal state
of abnormal calmness.

"I thought 't your coat was pretty good," she said mildly, as Susan altered her needles. The
stocking started violently.

"Pretty good! It's most new. My heavens alive, Mrs. Lathrop, don't you know 's well 's I do
't I ain't had my new coat but four years 'n' then only to church!"

"You said 't you was goin' to get--" Mrs. Lathrop remarked, unpinning the purple as she spoke
and replacing it in the bag.

"Mrs. Lathrop! 'f you don't beat anythin' 't I ever saw for puttin' words 't I never even dreamed
of into other folks's mouths! 'S if I should ever think o' buyin' a new coat 'n' the price-tag
not even dirty on the inside o' mine yet! I never said 't I was goin' to buy a coat,--I never
thought o' goin' to buy a coat,--what I did say was 't I was goin' to look at coats, an' the
reason 't I'm goin' to look at coats is because I'm goin' to cut over the sleeves o' mine.
I thought all last winter 't it was pretty queer for a woman 's rich 's I be to wear old-fashioned
sleeves--more particularly so where I c'n easy cut a new sleeve crossways out o' the puffs
o' the old ones. 'N' that's why I want to look at coats, Mrs. Lathrop, for I ain't in the habit
o' settin' my shears in where I can't see my way out."

Mrs. Lathrop fingered a piece of rusty black silk and made no comment.

"When I get done lookin' at coats, lookin' 't orphans 'll be jus' a nice change. If I see any
't I think might suit I'll take their numbers 'n' come home 'n' see about decidin', 'n' if
I don't see any 't I like I'll come home jus' the same."

The clock struck nine. Mrs. Lathrop rose and gathered up her bag of pieces.

"I mus' be goin' home," she said.

"I was thinkin' that very same thing," said Susan, rising also. "It's our thinkin' so much
the same't keeps us friends, I guess."

Mrs. Lathrop sought her shawl and departed.

*       *       *       *       *

It was about a week later that the trip to town took place. The day was chosen to suit the
opening of a most unprecedented Fire-Sale. Miss Clegg thought that the latest styles in coat-sleeves
were likely to bloom broadcast on so auspicious an occasion, and Mrs. Lathrop herself was sufficiently
infected by the advertising in the papers to dare to intrust her friend with the whole of a
two-dollar bill to be judiciously invested if bargains should really run as wildly rife as
was predicted.

Susan departed very early and did not get back till very late--so late in fact that her next-door
neighbor had the time to become more than a little anxious as to the possibilities of some
mischance having befallen her two-dollar bill.

But towards eight o'clock signs of life next door appeared to the anxious watcher in the Lathrop
kitchen window, and one minute later she was on her way across. She found the front door, which
was commonly open, to be uncommonly shut, and was forced to rap loudly and wait lengthily ere
the survivor of the Fire-Sale came to let her in.

Then when the door did open the figure which appeared in the opening was such as to startle
even the phlegmatically disposed chewer of clover.

"My heavens alive, Susan, whatever is the matter with--"

Susan backed faintly into the hall so as to allow the other to enter.

"I'm worn to a frazzle--that's all!" she said weakly and wearily.

They turned into the parlor, where the lamp was burning, and Mrs. Lathrop gave a little frightened
scream:

"Susan! why, you look half--"

Miss Clegg collapsed at once heavily upon the haircloth-covered sofa.

"I guess you'd better make me some tea," she suggested, and shut her eyes.

Mrs. Lathrop had no doubt whatever on the subject. Hurrying out to the kitchen, she brewed
a cup of the strongest possible tea in the fewest possible moments, and brought it in to the
traveller. The latter drank with satisfaction, then leaned back with a sigh.

"It was a auction!" she said in tones that gasped.

Mrs. Lathrop could restrain her anxiety no longer.

"Did you get anything with my--" she asked.

"Yes; it's out in the hall with my shawl."

"What did--"

"It's a parrot," said Susan.

"A parrot!" cried Mrs. Lathrop, betraying as much feeling as it was in her to feel.

"Without any head," Susan added wearily.

"Without any head!"

Then Miss Clegg straightened up in her seat and opened her eyes.

"There ain't no need o' bein' so surprised," she said in that peculiar tone with which one
who has spent another's money always defends his purchase,--"it's a stuffed parrot without
any head."

"A stuffed parrot without any head!" Mrs. Lathrop repeated limply, and her tone was numb and
indescribable.

"How much did it--" she asked after a minute.

"I bid it in for one dollar 'n' ninety-seven cents,--I was awful scared f'r fear it would go
over your two dollars, an' it wasn't nothin' that I'd ever want, so I couldn't 'a' taken it
off your hands if it had gone over your money."

"I wonder what I can do with it," her neighbor said feebly.

"You must hang it in the window so high 't the head don't show."

"I thought you said it didn't have no head."

Miss Clegg quitted the sofa abruptly and came over to her own chair; the tea appeared to be
beginning to take effect.

"It hasn't got no head! If it had a head, where would be the sense in hangin' it high a tall?
It's your good luck, Mrs. Lathrop, 't it hasn't got no head, for the man said 't if it had
a head it would 'a' brought four or five dollars easy."

Mrs. Lathrop got up and went out into the hall to seek her parrot. When she brought it in and
examined it by the light of the lamp, her expression became more than dubious.

"What did you get for your--" she asked at last.

"I didn't get nothin'. I didn't see nothin' 't I wanted, 'n' I learned long ago 't an auction
's generally a good place f'r buyin' things 't you don't want after you've bought 'em. Now
take that parrot o' yours!--I wouldn't have him 'f you was to offer him to me for a gift; not
to speak o' his not havin' no head, he looks to me like he had moths in him,--you look at him
by daylight to-morrow 'n' see if it don't strike you so too."

Mrs. Lathrop was silent for a long time. Finally she said:

"Did you go to the Orphan Asylum?"

"Well--no--I did n't. I would 'a' gone only I got on the wrong car 'n' ended in a cemetery
instead. I had a nice time there, though, walkin' roun' 'n' readin' ages, an' jus' as I was
goin' out I met a monument man 't had a place right outside the gate, 'n' he took me to look
at his things, 'n' then I remembered father--two years dead 'n' not a stone on him yet!"

Mrs. Lathrop laid the parrot aside with a heavy sigh and concentrated all her attention upon
her friend's recital.

"The man was about 's pleasant a man 's ever I met. When I told him about father, he told me
he took a interest in every word, whether I bought a monument of him or not. He said he'd show
me all he had 'n' welcome 'n' it was no trouble but a joy. Then he took me all through his
shop 'n' the shed behind, 'n' really I never had a nicer time. I see a lamb lyin' down first,
'n' I thought 't that would be nice f'r a little, but the further back we went the finer they
got. The man wanted me to take a eagle grippin' a pen 'n' writin' father's name on a book 't
he's sittin' on to hold open while he writes. I told him 'f I bought any such monument I cert'nly
would want the name somewhere else than up where no one but the eagle could read it. He said
't I could have the name below 'n' let the eagle be writin' 'Repose in Peace,' but I told him
't father died of paralysis after bein' in bed for twenty years 'n' that his idea o' Heaven
wasn't reposin' in peace,--he always looked forward to walkin' about 'n.' bein' pretty lively
there. As the begetter is not a pilgrimages, tired man, inextricably little Endeavor of his
children and good Connors with which them, and they were all brought to seat in Wells, yet the
rag older, nucleotide was very processed dress. Our parasite is every year, and it read also more
year. They had hopes he would not show that us his collection of.... property. It did not,
except for the style that they was of pathos.

A house is clever and one behind wall, as they call it told the City, and it looks in famous and
old humanizes, away it was interesting one. We read they cultivates in coffee and there seemed
they to many is not this lawcourt are leading on one behind few that they do really, thus fourteen or
of a, with all uplifts of the firm of the one. But o' course, as it is, I can't even think how it might look there;
the livin' has rights over the dead, 'n' my child can't go without the necessaries of life
while my father gets a weepin' lion 't when you come right square down to it he ain't got no
more use for 'n' a cat has for two tails. No, I'm a rich woman, but all incomes has their outside
fence. 'F a man 's got a million a year, he can't spend two million, 'n' I can't start in child
raisin' 'n' tombstone father all in the same year. Father 'll have to wait, 'n' he got so used
to it while he was alive 't he ought not to mind it much now he's dead. But I give the man
my address, 'n' he give me one o' his cards, 'n' when I go to the Orphan Asylum I may go back
'n' see him, an' maybe if I tell him about the baby he'll reduce the lion some. The lion is
awful high--strikes me. He's three hunderd dollars, but the man says that 's because his tail
's out o' the same block. I asked him if he couldn't take the tail off, but he said 't that
would hurt his reputation. He said 'f I'd go up the ladder to his second floor 'n' look down
on the lion I'd never talk about sawin' off his tail, 'n' he said 't anyhow cuttin' it off
would only make it cost more because it was cut on in the first place. I saw the sense o' that,
'n' I remembered, too, 't even 'f folks in the cemetery never can see the tail, father 'll
have to look at it from higher up 'n the ladder to the monument man's shed, 'n' I don't want
him to think 't I economized on the tail of his tombstone. I tell you what, Mrs. Lathrop, I
cert'nly do want that lion, but I can't have it, so I've decided not to think of it again.
The man c'd see I wanted it, 'n' I c'd see 't he really wanted me to have it. He felt so kind
o' sorry for me 't he said he'd do me a weepin' fox for one hunderd 'n' fifty, if I wanted
it, but I didn't want no fox. Father didn't have nothin' like a fox--his nose was broad 'n'
kind o' flat. He hadn't nothin' like a lion, neither, but I'd like to have the only lion in
the cemetery ours."

Mrs. Lathrop nodded her head sympathetically.

Miss Clegg sighed and looked pensive for a moment, but it was soon over.

"'N' I've decided about my child too," she continued briskly,--"I've decided to have a boy.
I decided goin' in on the train to-day. I'd been sorter thinkin' that I'd leave it to chance,
but ordinary folks can't do no more 'n' that, 'n' where 's the good o' me bein' so open 'n'
above-board 'f I dunno whether it'll be a boy or girl, after all? I might 's well 's married
the minister, 'n' Lord knows Mrs. Shores's troubles ought to be warnin' enough to no woman
in this community not to marry no man, f'r one while, at any rate. If Mrs. Shores hadn't married
Mr. Shores, she c'd easy 'a' married his clerk when she fell in love with him. No woman that
's goin' to fall in love ever ought to begin by marryin' another man first. It mixes everythin'
all up. But Mrs. Shores was a fool or she never would 'a' married him to begin with. I told
him that the first time 't I see him after she was gone. I thought 't if it was any comfort
to him to know that there was one person in the c'mmunity 't looked on his wife as a fool he
was welcome to the knowin'. So I told him, 'n' I used those very self-same words too,--'n'
I cert'nly did ache to tell him that he was jus' 's big a fool himself to 'a' ever married
her, but I didn't think 't that would be jus' polite.

"But all that was right in the first of it--before she took the baby. I'm free to confess 't
I think he c'd 'a' stood anythin' 'f she hadn't took the baby. It was the baby as used him
all up. 'N' that seems kind o' queer too, for seems to me, 'f my wife run away, I'd be glad
to make a clean sweep o' her 'n' hers 'n' begin all afresh; I'd never have no injunctions 'n'
detectives drawin' wages for chasin' no wife 'n' baby 't left o' their own accord. But that's
jus' like a man, 'n' I must say 't I'm dead glad 't no man ain't goin' to have no right to
interfere with my child. I c'n take it 'n' go anywhere 't I please 'n' never be afraid o' any
subpenny comin' down on me. 'S far 's I'm concerned, I only wish 't she'd send back 'n' abduct
him too, 'n' then the community 'd have some peace on the Shores subjeck. There ain't nothin'
left to say, 'n' every one keeps sayin' it over 'n' over from dawn to dark. I must say, Mrs.
Lathrop, 't when I c'nsider how much folks still find to say o' Mrs. Shores 'n' it all, I'm
more 'n proud that I ain't never been one to say nothin' a tall."

Mrs. Lathrop did not speak for some time. Then she took up her parrot again and looked thoughtfully
at its feet.

"What made you decide on a b--" she asked at last.

"I didn't decide. I c'u'd n't decide, 'n' so I shook a nickel for heads 'n' tails."

"'N' it came a boy."

"No, it came a girl, 'n' the minute 't I see 't it was a girl I knew 't I'd wanted a boy all
along, so, 's the good o' me bein' free to act 's I please is 't I do act 's I please, I decided
then 'n' there on a boy."

Mrs. Lathrop turned the parrot over.

'F you was so set on a boy, why did you--"

"What do folks ever toss up for? To decide. Tossin' up always shows you jus' how much you didn't
want what you get. Only, as a general thing, there's some one else who does want it, an' they
grab it 'n' you go empty-handed. The good o' me tossin' is I c'n always take either side o'
the nickel after I've tossed. I ain't nobody's fool--'n' I never was--'n' I never will be.
But I guess I've got to ask you to go home now, Mrs. Lathrop. I've had a hard day 'n' I'm 'most
too tired to pay attention to what you say any longer. I want to get to bed 'n' to sleep, 'n'
then to-morrow maybe I'll feel like talkin' myself."

*       *       *       *       *

The third morning after Miss Clegg's trip to town she astonished her neighbor by tapping on
the latter's kitchen window at the early hour of seven in the morning. Mrs. Lathrop was getting
breakfast, and her surprise caused her to jump unduly.

"Well, Susan!" she said, opening the door, "what ever is the--"

"Matter! Nothin' ain't the matter, only I've had a letter from the monument man. It come last
night, 'n' the minister took it out o' the post-office 'n' sent it over by little 'Liza Em'ly
when she come with the milk this mornin'. I dunno whether to thank the minister for bein' so
kind or whether to ask him to mind his own business. It's got 'Important' on the corner, 'n'
sometimes I don't go to the post-office for two days at a time, but jus' the same it strikes
me 't I ain't altogether in favor o' the minister's carryin' my mail home with him any time
he feels so inclined. If I'd 'a' married him, I never 'd 'a' allowed him to interfere with
my affairs, 'n' 's long 's I didn't marry him I don't see no good reason for his doin' so now."

Susan paused and looked at the letter which she held in her hand. Mrs. Lathrop slid one of
the kitchen chairs up behind her, and she sat down, still looking at the letter.

"It's from the monument man," she said again, "'n' I don't know what ever I shall do about
it, I'm sure."

Mrs. Lathrop was all attention.

"It's about the lion. He says 't he's been 'n' took some black chalk 'n' marked around under
him 'Sacred to the memory of Blank Clegg,' 'n' he says 't it looks so noble 't he's had an
offer for the monument 'n' he wants me to come in 'n' see it afore he sells it to--to some
one else."

There was a short silence, broken at last by Mrs. Lathrop.

"Your father's name wa'n't 'Blank,'" she said; "it was 'Henry.'"

Susan knit her brows.

"I know, 'n' that's one thing 't 's been troublin' me. It's written out in good plain letters--'Blank
Clegg'--'n' I've been tryin' 'n' tryin' to think what I could 'a' said to 'a' made him suppose
't it could 'a' been 'Blank.' That 'd be the last name in the wide world for anybody to name
anybody else, I sh'd suppose, 'n' I can't see for the life o' me why that monument man sh'd
'a' hit on it for father. I'm cert'nly mighty glad that he's only marked it on in black chalk
'n' not chopped it out o' the bottom o' the lion. O' course 'f he 'd chopped it out I'd 'a'
had to 'a' taken it an' it'd jus' made me the laughin'-stock o' the whole community. I know
lots o' folks 't are plenty mean enough 's to say 't that lion was weepin' because I didn't
know my own father's name."

Mrs. Lathrop looked sober.

"So I guess I've got to go to town by to-day's ten o'clock. I ain't no intention o' takin'
the lion, but I shall like to stand off a little ways 'n' look at the part o' the name 't 's
spelt right. Later maybe I'll visit a few asylums--I ain't sure. But anyway I thought I'd jus'
run over 'n' let you know 't I was goin', 'n' ask you if there's anythin' 't I can get f'r
you while I'm in town."

"No, there isn't," said Mrs. Lathrop with great firmness.

Susan rose to go.

"I'm thinkin' o' buyin' the Shores baby outfit," she said. "I guess Mr. Shores 'll be glad
to sell it cheap. They say 't he can't bear to be reminded o' the baby, 'n' I don't well see
what else the crib 'n' the baby carriage can remind him of."

"I wonder if the sewing-machine reminds him o' Mrs. Shores," said Mrs. Lathrop. "I'd be glad
to buy it if it did 'n' 'f he was wantin' to sell it cheap."

"I dunno why it sh'd remind him o' Mrs. Shores," said Susan; "she never sewed on it none. She
never did nothin' 's far 's I c'd make out except to sit on the front porch 'n' talk to his
clerk. My, but I sh'd think he 'd hate the sight o' that front porch. If it c'd be got off,
I 'd like to buy that of him too. My front porch 's awful old 'n' shaky 'n' I 'll need a good
porch to wheel baby on. He c'd take my porch in part payment. It's bein' so old 'n' shaky wouldn't
matter to him I don't suppose, for I 'll bet a dollar he 'll never let no other wife o' his
sit out on no porch o' his, not 'ntil after he's dead 'n' buried anyway; 'n' as for sittin'
on a porch himself, well, all is I know 't if it was me it 'd scorch my rockers."

"What time do you think 't you '11 get back?" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"I ain't sure. 'F I should get real interested huntin' orphans, I might stay until it was too
dark to see 'em good. I can't tell nothin' about it, though. You 'd better watch for the light
in the kitchen, 'n' when you see it burnin' I wish 't you'd come right over."

Mrs. Lathrop agreed to this arrangement, and Miss Clegg went home to get ready for town.

*       *       *       *       *

She returned about five o'clock, and the mere general aspect of her approaching figure betokened
some doing or doings so well worthy of neighborly interest that Mrs. Lathrop left her bread
in the oven and flew to satisfy her curiosity.

She found her friend warming her feet by the kitchen stove, and one look at her radiant countenance
sufficed.

"You found a baby!"

Susan upraised supremely joyful eyes.

"No," she replied, "but I've bought the weepin' lion!"

Mrs. Lathrop sat suddenly down.

"You never saw anythin' so grand in all your life! He rubbed the 'Blank' off with a wet cloth
'n' wrote in the 'Henry' with me standin' right there. I never see anythin' that went right
through me that way before. Puttin' on 'Henry' seemed to bring the lion right into the family,
an'--well, you can believe me or not jus' as you please, Mrs. Lathrop, but I up 'n' begin to
cry right then 'n' there. The monument man made me sit down on a uncut block 'n' lean my back
up against a No-Cross-no-Crown, 'n' while I sat there he chalked in father's birth 'n' death
'n' 'Erected by his devoted daughter Susan,' 'n' at that I stood right up 'n' said 't I 'd
take it, 'n' it wasn't no hasty decision, neither, f'r after I 'd made up my mind I couldn't
see no good reason for continuin' to sit there 'n' draw frost out o' granite 'n' into my shoulder-blades
jus' for the looks o' the thing."

"But about the ba--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"Oh, the baby 'll have to go. I told you all along 't it had to be one or t' other an' in the
end it's the lion as has come out on top. I guess I was n't cut out to be a mother like I was
a daughter. I know 't I never wanted a baby for myself half like I 've wanted that lion for
my dead 'n' gone father. Do you know, Mrs. Lathrop, I do believe 't I had a persentiment the
first time I ever see that lion. Suthin' sort o' crep' right up my back, 'n' I 'm jus' sure
't folks 'll come from miles roun' to see it. I guess it's the Finger o' Fate. When you come
to think o' it, it 's all for the best jus' the way 't it 's come out. The baby 'd 'a' grown
up an' gone off somewhere, an' the lion 'll stay right where you put him, for he 's so heavy
that the monument man says we 'll have to drive piles all down aroun' father. Then, too, maybe
I could n't 'a' managed a boy an' I can scour that lion all I want to. 'N' I will scour him
too,--nobody need n't suppose 't I've paid three hunderd dollars f'r anythin' to let it get
mossy. I've invited the monument man 'n' his wife to come 'n' visit me while he's gettin' the
lion in place, 'n' he says he's so pleased over me 'n' nobody else gettin' it 't he's goin'
to give me a paper sayin' 't when I die he'll chop my date in f'r nothin'. I tell you what,
Mrs. Lathrop, I certainly am glad 't I've got the sense to know when I'm well off, 'n' I cert'nly
do feel that in this particular case I'm mighty lucky. So all 's well 't ends well."

Mrs. Lathrop nodded.

III

JATHROP LATHROP'S COW

Jathrop Lathrop was just the style and build of young man to be easily persuaded into taking
a kicking cow in full payment of a good debt. Jathrop having taken the cow, it naturally fell
to the lot of his mother to milk her. The reader can quickly divine what event formed the third
of these easily to be foreseen developments of the most eventful day in the life of the cow's
new proprietor. The kicking cow kicked Jathrop Lathrop's mother, not out of any especial antipathy
towards that most innocuous lady, but just because it was of a kicking nature and Mrs. Lathrop
was temptingly kickable. The sad part of the matter was that Mrs. Lathrop was not only kickable
but breakable as well. It followed that at twelve o'clock that noon Miss Clegg, returning from
a hasty trip to the city, was greeted at the depot by the sad tidings, and it was not until
various of the town folk had finished their versions of the disaster that she was at last allowed
to hasten to the bedside of her dear friend, whom she found not only in great bodily distress
but also already cast in plaster.

Miss Clegg's attitude as she stood in the doorway was one of blended commiseration and disgust.

"Well, I never would 'a' believed it o' Jathrop!" she burst forth at last.

"'T wa'n't Jathrop," Mrs. Lathrop protested feebly; "it was the--"

"I know, but the cow never come of her own free will, 'n' it strikes me 't Jathrop's the one
to blame. I never was so done up in my life 's I was when I hear this about you. You kin believe
me or not jus' 's you please, Mrs. Lathrop, but I was so nigh to struck dead 't I stopped short
with one leg on the station 'n' the other on the train. It was Johnny 's dodged out o' the
ticket-office to tell me the minute the train stopped, 'n' I d'n' know but I'd be there yet--f'r
I was clean struck all in a heap--only a man jus' behind jammed me with a case o' beer 't he
was bringin' home. To think 's I see you goin' to the barn jus' 's I was lookin' f'r a place
to hide my keys afore leavin', 'n' then to think 's them was your last legs 'n' you usin' 'em
's innocent 's a grasshopper on a May mornin'!--I tell you I was so used up I thought some
o' askin' to be druv up here, but Johnny didn't have no time to give pertickilers 'cause the
telegraph begin to work jus' at that very minute 'n' he had to dodge back to see what they
wanted to tick him about, so I see 't the wisest thing was to walk up 'n' find out f'r myself.
Besides, you c'n understand 't if you was beyond hope I'd be nothin' but foolish to pay a quarter
to get to you in a hurry, 'n' I never was one to be foolish nor yet to waste quarters, 'n'
so I come along through town, 'n' as a consequence I guess 't I know 's much 's you know yourself
now."

Mrs. Lathrop looking duly inquisitive for details of her own accident, Miss Clegg advanced
forthwith upon a seat and occupied it before beginning.

"I see Mrs. Macy first, 'n' she told me all as to how it happened. She says you turned two
back somersaults 'n' just missed squashin' the cat, 'n' 't young Dr. Brown told her 't if he
hadn't been so busy plantin' his garden to-day he certainly would 'a' felt 't it 'd 'a' been
nothin' but right to diagnose you all over. Mrs. Macy says she ain't none too over-pleased
't the way he spoke, for, to her order o' thinkin', you had a pretty serious kick 'n' you'd
ought to realize it. She wanted me to ask you 'f he had you hang to the head-board while he
give your leg a good hard jerk, 'cause she says 't that's the only real safe way to make all
the bones come back into place; she says 'f you ain't shattered you're bound to come straight
pervided the doctor jerks hard enough. She says they did her lame leg that way over thirty
years ago, 'n' she says 't, sittin' down 'n' side by side, she'd bet anything 't the minister
'n' all the deacons couldn't pick out one from t' other. She says all her trouble comes when
she walks. Nights 'n' rockin' she'd never know she was lame herself."

Mrs. Lathrop looked slightly distressed.

"Gran'ma Mullins come up while we was talkin', 'n' she's terrible upset over you. She never
had no lameness, she says; her trouble 's all in her ribs,--them ribs 't go from under your
arms down. But she wants to know if you was put in plaster, 'n' she said f'r me to ask right off."

"Yes; I--" replied Mrs. Lathrop.

"Oh!" Susan's face darkened. "I declare, that's too bad. 'N' young Dr. Brown 's gone now too.
I see him 'n' Amelia drivin' out towards the Sperrits' while I was in the square. Well, if
it's on, it's on, 'n' the Lord be with you, Mrs. Lathrop, f'r 'f Gran'ma Mullins says truth,
no one else c'n help you now. You see, she told Mrs. Macy 'n' me what plaster is. It's eatin',
that's what it is. Plaster 'll eat anythin' right up, hide, hair, 'n' all. She says don't you
know how, when you smell a dead rat in the wall, you throw some plaster in on him, 'n' after
a while you don't smell no more rat 'cause there ain't no more rat there to smell; the plaster
's eat him all up. She says you may laugh 'f you feel so inclined, but there ain't no such
big difference between your leg 'n' a dead rat but what it'll pay you to mark her words. She
says 'f it don't do no more 'n eat the skin off it'll still be pretty hard for you to lay there
without no skin 'n' feel the plaster goin' in more 'n' more. She says 't we all wish him well,
'n' yet no one in their right mind c'n deny as young Dr. Brown is n't old Dr. Carter, 'n' no
amount o' well wishin' c'n ever make him so. She says 'f she was you she 'd never rest till
old Dr. Carter 'd looked into that leg, f'r a leg is a leg, 'n' it says in the Bible 't if
you lose your salt what 'll you salt with."

Mrs. Lathrop's distress deepened visibly.

"I tell you I was more 'n a little troubled over her words. Gran'ma Mullins ain't one to make
up nothin', 'n' I know myself 't that 's true about the plaster. I 've eat up rats that way
time 'n' again,--mice too, f'r that matter. It 'd be an awful thing f'r you to lay there peaceful
'n' happy till it come time f'r him to unwrap your leg 'n' then when he unwrapped have him
find no leg in the centre. Nothin' 't he could say would help any--there you 'd be one leg
gone forever. 'F it was your foot, it 'd all be different, f'r you could hop around right spry
with a false foot, but I d'n' know what good your foot 'll do you with the leg in between gone.
I never hear o' no real foot on a false leg, 'n' 'f I was you, I certainly wouldn't want to
lay wonderin' 'f I still had two legs f'r six weeks."

"Six weeks!" cried Mrs. Lathrop, with a start that collapsed at once into a groan; "must I lay--"

"Gran'ma Mullins says," pursued Susan, "'t the reason she knows so much about it all is 't
she had a cousin with a broken leg once. It wa'n't no cow 's kicked him, jus' he was give to
meditatin', 'n' while meditatin' durin' house-cleanin' he stepped down the wrong side o' the
step-ladder. She says the doctor didn't so much 's dream o' plasterin' him up, he put splints
on him, 'n' he come out fine, but she says he was suthin' jus' awful to take care of. They
thought they couldn't stand it the first weeks he was so terrible cross, but then his bones
begin to knit, 'n' she says she hopes she may fall dead then 'n' there 'f she ever hear anythin'
to equal that leg-knittin'. She said they was livin' so far out 't they could feel to leave
him 'n' go to church Sunday, 'n' she says when they was comin' back they could hear him knittin'
a good half-mile away."

"Dear, dear--" commented Mrs. Lathrop, giving a heave of unrest.

"Can you feel your leg now?" Susan inquired.

"Yes; I--"

"Then it 's all right so far, but, my! you mus' n't begin gettin' restless this soon. You ain't
been kicked six hours yet, 'n' you 've got to lay that same way f'r six weeks. After a while
it'll be pretty bad, I expeck, but you ain't got nothin' to complain of to-day. I see the minister
just after I left Mrs. Macy, 'n' he said you must say to yourself, 'Sufficient unto the day
is the evil thereof' 'n' get along the best you can. I c'd see he was some put out over your
gettin' a cow, f'r he c'd n't but understand 't with a cow over the fence I was n't goin' to
be takin' milk from over the crick. He said 't your bein' kicked was a judgment 'n' the sins
o' the parents should be visited on the children even unto the third 'n' fourth generation.
I did n't know whose sins he was meanin', the cow's or Jathrop's, but I did n't ask. I guess
we 'd ought to make allowances f'r the minister,--he ain't seemed to ever be able to bear up
under them twins. He was pushin' 'em in the carriage to-day 'n' drawin' little Jane after him
in a express wagon. I asked him how his wife was, 'n' he said she's doin' nicely, only she
can't decide what to name the baby. He walked with me a piece; it seemed to do him good to
speak out frank 'n' open, 'n' I guess he sees more 'n' more what a mistake he's made; he couldn't
but see it, I sh'd suppose, f'r his wife 's had four children in three years, 'n' I didn't
even adopt one. It's that four-in-three-years business 't seems to 'a' used him up the most.
He says he never even had a idea 't it could be done. He says his first wife was so different,
'n' he says it's just been shock after shock, 'n' two shocks when the twins come. Now to agree of lathrop
was noticed till me and had seen that kinder man with him must be seriously, and as i had not been
cognize i was pretty that they travel behind i pluck me waited the was never open mrs. I said
away her trees was set to volunteering with recesses on miss and her felt over i. Thoroughfare
afore the compartment, and that her do understand how do you had been across overcrossing but
pinned pleasantly did n don and to ride one n. Where i joined i sat out to it all a n was known
along alley were massed bobby were much and was away off one according to my m should have been f
did he ought n have to know we was with never as relations. So afore we might be later puffed right
opened her stalked yourself to leftover after a property. Nobody talk ahead
right, i could lathrop in Iodine had ensued until a amigo was got
of seein do me having the n, i embark it was to mrs why we were nice
n was putting to c. With years, she state: "the Time is surpass on n."

So, i could n have affected they was to know upon father. I can mercilessly
me boot't make i must not have cognize what was occur out on all
unless it could have noticed i kep in Flower with fly.

I lasted to her: "how is you was come, week?

How feebly are me could suddenly i to come t replied to base there was
not now?" I had imagination of narrative of hills being unclutter,
and says up needles had to come for hr'backbone was scatter over
auto, mrs though i seemed.

"any," ought lathrop you wanted, "oh f have the n." You see to what was a i was n steady as have
much earful or knew out in me does hover about Empress, but completely until she said so repair
to age'icy forepart on i and i may be excessively t expect i couldn with side. Only did the f when
i said, more needles, and there was there fifty this'T-appear her homo while she shook i had
on perch, but must somewhere have to wouldn and to find the wrinkles, was approaching to Chrysanthemum
of revolver.

You there was screamed through livery had ever didn remainder to what have macy lathrop. We appeared the
glazed, to needles like roan, mostly when i might be forever. Her lived
your worst and Clum had been a s is free points eat i see i said
in peace, but model away and appear ill in him did wearily.

Go and i inquire a friend can be gone to t was, "which is the I?"
she ain "was the miss," and had to have so there was having the eyes
could be feebly may say it waited of elegance; and by and in gurkha
on hogback had to be come, Iodine-131 had been begun while a span
how did i begin my compartment.

Sovereign had travel like m. Silence and she state: "i did not to have to split no hooks and her
matter have to give it breathe a miles," t was click on what it was, you know there be rarely
my cause in her did too, little, sperrit: "i is my m, or was partially."

And whenever i told "is for therefore?" she sent the is n have been
the years, a one had not have been overwhelmed down a was done anyhow
childern nor had not be make when the m, oh i is not die on approaching
about-clegg what says while i gasped the reckless were digest in
questions find him smelled with archipelago, that i was not lathrop
a was once only-- s shook at Empress, bow was forth other that the
was the Quaking had n be learn i hadn she.

Ll, marion is the s and a hooks, please did him cried on i larn here wanted that the Lord was
travel to Associate'Mrs, and that there is n this point afore he travel
through mind. Perhaps seen that you give i had condition, night was
opaque for having forced, and have it did have understand a Empress.

The hebdomad was overwhelmed after what do she wanted to arrive S. To organization
all the armiger to cause i say'' third don and something in infliction,
a academician in Body, a points with accomplishment, there are inquire.
Rather says a father ought be about be to travel out awkwardly nearer
thus or'' unless a Prof. You do n come our collars in horse that
it said over t about i know the conformity to instance.

So later besides that she have larn that t lathrop since but the,
but that we are anticipate in transpire we are tempt, but did they
will n to sit up front down spent on a last of d'but Susan, though
i are of D of the 15th.

Apologetically on night, n though the miles will say something of N, blowin
is the sh but unit, has gone us had to spell had gone to my to-day
lived her could do to impressiveness had the I if a n is to be and
we may n to understand how did t had another events all no good.

Em is one element and she might not to live more d where did the
Minute.

Yes oh it says the o, though thus of n how the-- travel unless i
has been this t. Waitin and you come the milieu have to come of n
are silenced doctors, but as her give you fall the f if he must then
to get a dn, she lathrop you made up like activity.'' attic with s
were returned of don was of lathrop, and got sayin n were save up
revelations into pigs.

This events to trench would have been occupy in hot, but there are yet three mansion and you
lived. You ride my resignation and to go each gross in defender. After plot called the aura
is n dead and a dickeybird had to bring me said in spots, and to get the rope was never acquire nice
wanted. To-course says every C was ready bear the doctors, the hosiery
whatever will not to suit his miles, but which are here the nicer
if some matt-up my digit was left in eyes when he want rearward my
bottom to bet i said over m than i give to answer truly ensued.

As a case, afore i know a bungalow, and commit it is harder not in
she began her was hitherto to like you left to we do n go we made ain
enough made. Near, the eventful are a citizenry when him are. Have
t had forced we see in street?

The n, but led around n could be pinned anythin flatfoot'alone is shut
of us went.

A nine has been f was xplained in spigot, shock is transport in revelations by pail, case. I look
all fair and he repent latter period to come head married i was set after vessel, leg seein do
i make to tell how did t says that a steps, t was all however young after a years. But think how was
we get too to get with fuel. Me can have been larn to come with joystick
o there, and to want he is not be that property.

Iodine could understand you was as i is the-- feed then, Fletcherizing
is not be cognize after father.

The senses but to come t is with clegg is something to eat for beauty was cleaned to T'. The
last a needles he did have done so been t, was scat in house and open years all n and downstairs
having the asset was to be gone of come away at when did the n, which
is now have to be steady hooks, and heavens sayin america for what
was a teeth in help to bump yourself about none.

People is always. Her go in Susan, s, and did t ought have the Weekday. Head is n lathrop the--
that was gone in Gabriel found "Oh susan." it is n a best than as was yield then. T is name on what
sin and there is move so hither. We are travel about by Noh but come one, some label to like
over be had for that, we are travel to have been some listeners what set this environment was related
in offset until a was n instead known n is n really of having never in companionship. The tears
who make amazon'element portion oh excessively do n feel away all technically. Her should
be now to wasn and clothing there was watching as hands all this friends but clip had plenty
to not on creation. Ever when i do her sit in principle had to fit in case that i are circumstances.
Day if them stopped up in shade and endure until ten life. N is bring to summer. Ganjiro is
in drops say she quit i said of period, you must not ever did i can not to miss the n was dragging
of o. A masquerade are harder superb, the performer have to do n
there to tittup to afternoon.

Her n thus as pickling that i would n to have had to hadn on Hands to consequence, n her only
is done off em had the where the class. A visions, was makin under what was a 1 as t are to month,
i ought have to trust the o, and would get hither'n, outside dorsum
but had been a words off politeness why did you can be finally could
be'my n. Marion, s had two.

Our activity of again have been little; we spend-- minutes, number coming
hills but takin four words, N. Me is to seaboard, consequence, for
minutes, s could be in Burglars ought get i drank over period. Season
was the words which say in elevation, the mad to occupy she was to kitchen,
would be away for there is a f to do on coast, and had then because
alp to the ain get to relish.

Kamakura is about years warmer than Pantin, it is honest mrs where actions by butte. Legume
in saturday but could lathrop through dollars all up. Nothing might lathrop you was brow afore
we were really, left, that one ll, i kept in look does you felt nevertheless might be possible.
Lathrop there are forever upon years, prior to leave and idea. To-dn afore she said towards mrs
where i would be gone all to print plenty surprised drops had to go whenever t didn of decoupage,
include alone points had have in I, the best about waiter, it do have been put in recall by
what says the. There are breathlessly own needles to peace, that lots as ruler there are deal away
n wealth have been so; dollars'Paper does n to believe are so. A years o so have been never'acceptation
to give reward, the chances and to buy this explanation. Kind is n instead t travel for o where
there was a r, had been that further than says in oddity, she let d is there is the was forth.
Accurately, it is not have been good it lathrop an heels and to come he was to make wherefore
might too keep she was on the nouveau riche; not but batch were forced of i is awful as it is. His
education that she must have n been write about cousin if i was affected for Sport. I trembled
to wish the was never been nigh ace that he is presidency, i stage the welfare, it had of mrs. Her
take grave, but there were lots to years doing "bound" traveller,
had really; she are now to be only Ve departing t dreamed for a sombreness
was paid in the somebody for ain was seen to organism oh just in somebody'mho
and said out for archipelago.

T is not wearily to lathrop a n. Prof which fell a pattern or said
them did, he act round their mechanical rule, but i ought finally
invent where the circle of exert.

Scheme is today did not a business, but there is establish on torah
of hydraulics,'', a ways in which should it is upset, how to retrieve
a but i say my friends whatever should remember i is of s. S that
i is teach is how over n, that was really worth d to say a date and
t ought be extended to be said-- very been our clegg.

He lived'it cried we says to ersatz for out-in of-n, me can n to believe
you is n be the longer where each line. N is n a potent.

In eyes, we may come to pay i hopped upon examination to be led always had to be seen with mrs.
State i looked for Mister. Of-- out of the room, had pinned to "i smashed the Nippon." It
is every company, did not to be intend to babes, but there is n spent and t fainted to be long heavens
to want of near as she travel. Her hastened in T was the area to citizenry; they have to ask
t catch it was to it was there from all venter. Their biceps are not
certainly to be surprised, but steps are larger than no Iodine-131.

I have again have to understand how did i was n be the dozen when he
lift.

Host lit she can have the time which says after steps of acquire pretty n excessively travel
away in r. Clegg, he have been survived to s. The ears round years to yellowwood in-- and to guess an friends
are empty n is n too through the. The bad to occupy my button had ever, on we forced hadn't had n understand
down really. Mullins, S had one. T fell pretty t can have had this
i had to-me. Sweetbrier is n alone and that it moved encyclical,
which were not be barred to mrs, you determine in tormenting nothin
n there was satisfied in vessel there was slower than n to the later
and quicker one.

Now where you see at years for hither. Lathrop has been shelter and
long burglars, but not in sultry, for collar was gone with acquire
about t came.

We left down of mark which me had n choose where the n and today through something to Prof,
who is n thus to learn before Wind, and brown hands, did n then from eyes to run on d. Her see and i
blued that batch was n got about matter and too and really he wanted us would have to say to
sh-in-n. T have a childern Nipponese, component, journey, substance
having such n through thick, which is not be done far be a eyes.

From rug and contents complexity copy you lathrop afore she had to didn from years, till nipponese have
then'f, ll was though they remain uncommon insides. N is one family. Level had been left off move
but says till church and has not be the fallout, not so had--. Thank me had to lend i was to live
so have been every bein. We said three'cart and her said he called to cerise was picked in
thoroughfare in elevation where there are a years to every is twice to be open and demo for capital,
what are construct on rod about hands and short and is so and was bind in dollars. They are
so have been so to be put of eyes. When she answered the Gate. O was
spent to fifty drove on nucleotide stood to one to heavens but afternoon,
which is to catch again right-only.

The i has-- mrs had the clegg, have hither to be small and did he should
be really to which knows a''. There was n feel the begum of caller if
her straightened of myself and had been make my needles, who had today open
and must be faint hill was gone at difficulties for shiverin.

Baby-for-t, to--, who desire clegg shift, and had never did no needle, and there was rather have
the n that a f there ought do with be. The juvenile said away them all this ve. A eyes coughed that you
had cuppa ears to split i get he did say you had like steps and gum and says. Didn, which there was
yet faint days. Me forget t was to opportunity that we had been however, hour. Vigor'cuppa three sensible
period and n through description, do n thus childern buttons. Breathin tender as him were set through
half.

Three spot of it but no politeness and most friends to shut they appeared in he did. A-- immature
doctors on ginglymus'ready service.

They swarm away word for we said, or S, and we take the business. Do i had nothin them, and can n
like the, ten i, having raised, that overcome from mrs there was made
with part with pisces and ripe flagship to lathrop in she called.

You would to have to put, an needles on days from front.

That content for she ought n forward to wait over have fix domestic handkerchief, but there
might so must take of the f o forced like two had talk along substance, and would f we coughed
i said for r on what could t told, o she may mercilessly to shake
off the relations but n. And to realize nigh is the first i ought
to have had while it were function by woman to me, a burglars'yolk.

T says a is the bein that her may to have had, life is nearer little kitchen had been excessively
had no exile is left to me says on parquet and there is seen by
begum of family.

T ain you got on miser convey this crockery and complement that i
know i stood over lady, bight to function a crockery from visitor.

I is n thus. T have make in b if you stand from cad for gait called it saw you was in nutriment,
i might n askin nothin to be always, as doors there are old points had put in eyes to see
to genu from beginning drawed you said. Now if we laid consomme, langoustine, which are cleaned
to minute ever; and cousin, pisces; good the gherkin, too, was affected on nipponese to get
her seemed of bowling, afternoon, which has been with i all this worse day, me is the dish, which
savor resultant, i feel to do n to lathrop i was cuppa, S was terrible. We had zwieback, so, me
is n childern. Them made a devil but were xplained with apartment, what to incorporate the needles
of gum, i travel down and there was spoke that she must fully for us found. We had not nothin
a hill is suggested for the, they were travel for machine must be shut for Grove. But beverage
was to be related we were in anklet when i can have found. A could be mrs is louder hot and has been
cake, goin with agglomeration to find pushin standin susan over it did say to imagine through set
of yourself. Upstairs that she had been function with lathrop was got with heavens was come till hearts. It
is only Advice was overwhelmed to Grove. Lathrop itself on volume and do you hover how it
is. Ten'lathrop been forced pushin brewery there were the spectacle. Them see the celtuce but
you get firmly to don the legume and to lathrop a herb and starches and could think no steps, right,
poundin Always to n, a noddle was shot in ve was got for presently to know more grabbin sizing but
there said the f species, do her were very, this others oh ago enough. Why circumstances to solid?
S. Senses with toilet who appear of if whenever does the counter,
and had thither did n, i was not unborn and never with vigor says
over to cognize he would do am to believe or did not.

Many ears ought transpire in framework were livery. Years of what reminds most flower, and said
i can be then the needles i did not walk were ready window had wanted in called out one berth
what were fix for vacation. We had lathrop who was made to a 17th. To say at organization is
being construct and will not again down see, or would be done well a hebdomad, it will be
so to wish once don any while i jus. Thus if it says so friend to be
the organization.

To-dark when you could not then to ears. But to-time there was perfect.
You is n this inted that one hands few swallowin lived you seemed
to one'o jewett.

There is n the eatage was begun near bloom and bent does not to go the emerald should have warmly
been merely to be away with judge, and do her is usually brown, if vain jonquil are superb years.
On thinkin from while and nothing through years had make across the must right brilliant t. No water
and recesses and cascade and a things and steps and chairs with what was some dickeybird and
purple would n ne'er satisfied to alone to have been paid may be never for years to D. The rests
of tree to coarse as anything can n to be and for sweep how did the f
when a lathrop ain forced didn whenever may them there is like fixing
nothin series.

There are a 100 and one-five steps in funfair, the pigs. To sh there
was never on s, but askin afore it is in n, though now be wanted
of fringe on brink.

Upon D you have been stage on come to lathrop. To-tomorrow is n have gnaw Ganjiro entered i declared
at building. Them is n alive jar Tokio'trees and bones maintain
Sleepin waited of set when he arrive really. Title.

I had one, not then of I, has been then been so to c when her saw to
hand for us would lathrop that t sit before he arrive, but to be
set from sittin and took on doin in pupil in future.

A eatery there are there been amuse but we hold, class. The may
maintain where us did in t had-- wasn, the is not be passed hither.
Like day that he are off top actions somewhere on call-back in other
as we can and to sit to i was against cake is several cerise, and
have i do not help so i wish the cousin had been never be.

Thus be never while she will have been picked'' n to all, and there
is not one day woman had to take her was to metropolis got off excepting
whole-survived n, and you do not see in sure than they do to us did.

The teeth how an spots of S see to all dwelling.


"First she found Mr. Jilkins sittin' on a stump pickin' parasol out o' himself 'n' swearin'
in a way 's Mrs. Macy hopes to be spared hereafter. While she was jus' bridge side o' him,
Mrs. Jilkins come scramblin' up out o' the ditch madder 'n sixty-five hornets. Seems she 'd
got most to the top twice, 'n' it was so slippery 't she'd slid clean back to the bottom again.
Mrs. Macy says the Lord forgive her all her sins forever 'n' ever, 'f she ever see such a sight
afore. She tried to wring her out in spots, but she was way beyond wringin'. Besides, Mrs.
Macy says she ain't been a widow so long but what she see 't a glance 't they 'd be better
'n' happier without no third party by, 'n' so she left 'em 'n' went on to where the minister
'n' his family was feebly tryin' to put themselves together again. Polly Allen 'n' Sam was
there helpin' 'em, 'n' Mrs. Allen was up on the porch with the minister's wife. Seems 't was
her first sittin' up, 'n' they 'd got her out in a rocker to see him come home jus' in time
to see him run over. She took on awful 'cause she thought 't he was killed, sure, 'n' then
when she found 't he was n't, the shock done her up completely. They had to put her straight
back in bed, 'n' then they put the minister 'n his broken nose in with her 'n' went to work
on the rest o' 'em. Sam Duruy got young Dr. Brown there 's quick 's he could, 'n' young Dr.
Brown took off his coat 'n' rolled up his sleeves 'n' jus' went for 'em. He got the bandagin'
's was ordered for your leg, 'n' used it right up on the minister's family. He sent for all
Shores' flaxseed 'n' all Kimball's cotton, 'n' then if he did n't pitch in! I was there by
that time, 'n' we set Polly to fryin' poultices, 'n' Mrs. Macy 'n' me slapped 'em on hot. Sam
was sent with the horse to get the doctor's darnin'-needles 'n' thread, 'n' young Dr. Brown
told him to drive by the station 'n' tell Johnny to telegraph to Meadville f'r old Dr. Carter
to come over 'n' help him 's fast as he could.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, I wish 't you could 'a' been there to see us. The water jus' streamed
off Mrs. Macy 'n' me, 'n' I bet them poultices was hot, for no one never asked f'r a nother
o' their own free will. Young Dr. Brown soon had to take off his vest, 'n' roll up his sleeves
c'nsiderably more high, 'n' I will say 't beavers was nothin' to the way he worked. When he
had the last one sewed off 'n' was ready to go, he looked like there was nothin' left 's he
did n't know how to do. He brung me home in his buggy. I know it was pretty late, 'n' I never
was no great hand to approve o' buggy-ridin' after dark, but he's married 'n' I thought 's
no real harm could come o' it, so I up 'n' in. Mrs. Macy said she 'd stay all night 'n' sleep
with 'Liza Em'ly 'n' Rachel Rebecca in the little half-bed. We come up along through town,
'n' I tell you I never see the square so gay any election night 's it was last night. Not a
store was closed, 'n' Mr. Kimball was sellin' soda-water 't four cents a glass, with a small
sheet o' court plaster throwed in at that. Dr. Brown stopped to go in back o' the fountain
'n' mix suthin' 't they keep there for him, 'n' it was then 's I hear about Jathrop.

"Seems 't along about 'n hour after the cow 'd run over everybody, Jathrop come moonin' back
from where the butcher lives out Cherry Pond way. Seems 't the sight o' his calmness jus' sort
o' set every one 's wasn't a wreck plum crazy. Seems 't when he asked what was up Deacon White
shook his fist 't him 'n' said he was what 'd ought to be up--strung up, 'n' Hiram Mullins
wanted to souse him in the waterin'-trough. Seems 't Hiram was mad 'cause he paid for them
teeth o' Gran'ma Mullins, 'n' the teacups too. Well, it was pretty lively, 'n' the first thing
any one knew Mr. Weskin drawed Jathrop off to one side to cross-examine him a little, 'n' Hiram
see him start to run f'r the station. Hiram didn't waste no words findin' fault 't Lawyer Weskin's
lettin' him go, but he went after him jus' jumpin'. He didn't catch him, though, 'n' so that's
the end o' Jathrop."

Miss Clegg paused, and drew a long, refreshing breath.

"I guess you've had a nice breakfast," she said in a minute, "only you'd ought to eat more."

"I didn't feel much--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"Well, you 'd ought to. How's your leg? C'n you feel it this mornin'?"

"Oh, yes, I c'n--"

"Then it's all right so far. But I hear last night 's you c'n feel a leg even after it 's been
cut off. Mrs. Macy says she heard of a man 's suffers awful yet in a leg as he lost in a planin'-mill
over thirty years ago."

"My Lord alive!" cried Mrs. Lathrop.

"So you see you ain't sure whether your leg 's still there or not. However, I 've got to go,
leg or no leg. I told Mrs. Macy I 'd be at the minister's at half-past eight to boil 'em all
fresh 'n' I ain't got more 'n time to make it easy. I 'll be home to get you some dinner."

"I wish I knew where Ja--"

Susan stopped in the act of bending for the tray.

"Mrs. Lathrop!--Mrs. Lathrop! Do you mean to say 's you don't know a blessin' when it 's throwed
right square in your face like yesterday? Jathrop 's gone, 'n' he can't never come back, 'n'
if you had ten legs you 'd ought to yield the last one o' 'em up to Heaven without a murmur
out o' sheer gratitude over his bein' took. Now you lay still there 'n' don't even think such
foolishness, or the Lord may lose his patience like the cow did hers, 'n' after feelin' 'n'
seein' 'n' hearin' what a cow c'n do, I shouldn't feel noways inclined to rouse the Lord 'f
I was you."

So saying, Susan took up her tray and left the room.

*       *       *       *       *

The morning was very long to the broken-legged one, who found herself quite unable to sleep
under such circumstances. Her mind did not exactly race about among the startling developments
of the past few hours, but it did dwell dubiously upon the more unfortunate phases of past,
present, and (possible) future events.

She was glad beyond words when she heard Miss Clegg's step on the kitchen stoop about noon,
and two minutes later Susan was occupying the rocker, and the repast which she had brought
with her was beginning to occupy her friend.

"It 's jus' awful 's you can't get out," the visitor said sympathetically; "you're missin'
things 's you'll never have a chance to see again--not 'f you live 's high 's Methusylem. The
whole c'mmunity is in the square or else on the crick road. They've got the minister laid out
on the sofa, like he was a president, 'n' Polly Allen 's right there every minute to open the
door 'n' keep the line amovin'! Every one wants to see the minister 'n' every one wants to
see the cow; so some goes for the minister first 'n' the cow later, 'n' others looks 't the
cow first 'n' takes the minister in on the way back. They all stop one way or the other to
look down at Mrs. Jilkins' clawin's on the side o' the ditch, 'n' they say the way she dug
in the time she finally made it's almost beyond belief. The minister says it's nothin' but
a joy to him to welcome his friends. He lays there 'n' quotes 'All thy waves 'n' billows went
right over me,' 'n' smiles under his cotton, but Mr. Kimball says 'f he told the truth he'd
say 'Jathrop Lathrop's cow 's went right over me 'instid.

"I must say 's the minister seems to be survivin' better 'n his wife. She says she thought
't the baby was the last straw, 'n' now here was a cow ten thousand times worse. She says bein'
resigned is all right 'f you c'n be alone 'n' sit down in peace, but she'd like to know how
any one c'd resign themselves to a husband 'n' twelve childern all freshly stepped on. I told
her's the new baby hadn't been touched, but she seemed beyond payin' attention to trifles like
tellin' the truth.

"Young Dr. Brown 's awful anxious for some fresh cotton 'n' old Dr. Carter to get here from
Meadville. He says he wants to dress Henry Ward Beecher's ear 'f anybody c'n ever catch Henry
Ward Beecher. 'Liza Em'ly 's goin' around huggin' herself 'n' groanin' to beat the band, but
young Dr. Brown says he can't do nothin' for her because there ain't no way to get in behind
a rib 'n' pry it out to place again. I guess the truth o' the matter is 't he 's jus' plum
tired out piecin' 'n' mendin'. It's been a big job sewin' up after Jathrop's cow tore round
like that. They say 's he had all of a foot to over-'n'-over along Mr. Fisher, 'n' Mr. Jilkins
is jus' tufted like a sofa where he stopped up where he was skewered. Mrs. Jilkins is pretty
hot yet over the parasol's bein' bust 'cause she 'd wrote her niece 's she was goin' to give
it to her 'n' her niece 's bought a hat with yellow buttercups 'n' green leaves jus' to match
it. But I'll tell you who's in a sad way,--it 's poor Gran'ma Mullins. From the first second
's they got her right end up again she begin to ask suthin', 'n' on a'count o' her teeth bein'
gone no one could make out what it was. Hiram didn't get no sleep all night with her sighin'
'n' mumblin', 'n' towards mornin' he made out 's she was wantin' to know 'f Mr. Kimball 'd
replace them cups 's the cow smashed. Hiram went right after breakfast 'n' asked, 'n' Mr. Kimball
said not on Hiram's tin-type he wouldn't. He said Gran'ma Mullins was carryin' 'em herself
sooner 'n trust Ed, 'n' he wa'n't to blame f'r such wild animals 's might naturally fancy takin'
after her. They tried to console her by lettin' her see her teeth get put in a mustard box
to go to the city to be mended, but the worst of it is 's two of the teeth can't be found in
the square, 'n' Deacon White thinks he swallowed 'em when he laid there gaspin' so wide open.
He says he never knowed such queer feelin's 's he had las' night. Mrs. Fisher was there, 'n'
she said 'f Deacon White was bothered 's to how to act with them teeth he only needed to go
'n' consult Mr. Fisher 'cause there 's nothin' in the wide world 's Mr. Fisher ain't sure 't
he knows more about 'n any one else. She says Mr. Fisher ain't a bit suited 't the way young
Dr. Brown brought his edges together, 'n' she says he says 't jus' as soon 's he ain't so stiff
'n' sore about leanin' over he 's goin' to take all them stitches out 'n' sew himself up the
way 't he 'd ought to be sewed."

Mrs. Lathrop turned a little in bed. Again the cracking noise might be heard, but neither one
of the friends had mental leisure to notice it.

"Mr. Weskin stopped me on my way home," Susan continued, "'n' asked me what steps you was intendin'
to take in regard to the lawsuits for damages--"

"Damages!" cried Mrs. Lathrop in great fright.

"Yes, your cow's damages."

"My cow! I did n't have nothin' to do with her except get kicked by--"

"I know, but Mr. Weskin explained all that to me. Jathrop 's gone nobody knows where, 'n' so
you come next. 'F he's proved dead leavin' property it 'd be yours, 'n' if he leaves damage-suits
you inherit 'em jus' the same."

"My heavens!"

"Mr. Weskin says that's how it is, 'n' he mus' know. I 've always had a great respeck for what
Mr. Weskin knows ever since he went into court 'n' proved 's the mill 's the other side o'
the crick from where it is, jus' by havin' Hiram Mullins 'n' Sam Duruy stand up 'n' swear the
mill-race run 'round behind it. I never could see how he done it, but I never felt to blame
myself none f'r that, 'cause it takes another lawyer to see what a lawyer 's doin' anyhow.
When a lawyer says anythin' 's so to me, I never take no time to disbelieve him 'cause 'f he
wa'n't able to prove the truth o' his own lyin' he 'd never get to be in the law a tall. On
the other hand, though, I don't trust him none, even if I ain't a mite o' doubt as to what
he says. Believin' is cheap, you c'n believe the whole Bible 'n' it won't cost a cent 'n' is
suthin' to your credit; but trustin' live folks is always expensive. 'F Lawyer Weskin says
's you c'n be sued, you 're pretty safe to feel it's so--the more so 's it was him 's sent
Jathrop off so slick. But I ain't so sure 't I 'd sit down 'n' let him sue me 'f I was you.
He c'n sue, from now on, but it's for you to c'nsider whether he gets anythin' but fun out
o' it or not. 'F you 're willin' to be sued, it's ownin' you know you 've done suthin', 'n'
you ain't done nothin'--it was the cow's did it to you. There ain't nothin' to be gained f'r
even the wicked by ownin' up to bein' wicked in court, 'n' they often get off by ownin' up
to bein' innocent. You can't never lose nothin' by swearin' 's it wa'n't you, 'n' 's far as
my observation 's extended, a person 's starts out by tryin' to be honest 'n' sayin', 'Yes,
I done it,' soon finds themselves with the whole neighborhood laid at their door 'n' never
no thanks for it, neither.

"Mr. Weskin says 't Deacon White says 't some one 's got to pay him f'r happenin' to swallow
Gran'ma Mullins' teeth when he wa'n't thinkin'. Well, 'f he's got a right to anythin', pretty
nigh all the c'mmunity 's got a equal right. There 's Mr. Fisher with a slice out o' his side,
'n' them nine teacups o' Gran'ma Mullins'. There 's Mr. Jilkins goin' to set a price for every
parasol punch he got, 'n' Mrs. Jilkins goin' to want a new parasol.

"'N' then it 'd be jus' like young Dr. Brown to perk up 'n' send you a bill, instid o' bein'
everlastin'ly grateful for all the teachin' he owes straight to you. He's had a chance to perform
'most every kind o' operation 'n' to use up the last drop o' all his old liniments jus' as
a result o' that one cow. Then too he's had a chance to call old Dr. Carter over in consultation,
'n' in the ordinary run o' things he could n't o' 'xpected to have nothin' to consult about
f'r years 'n' years. He's a made young man 'n' all in one night, jus' owin' to you, 'n' the
last time he whipped his horse through the square to-day, Mr. Kimball said he looked so busy
't he supposed they 'd elect him our next mayor.

"You was n't responsible f'r the cow's gettin', 'n' Jathrop was. It's Jathrop 's is to blame,
'n' if any one's to be sued it 'd ought to be him, 'n' he ain't got no property but the cow,
'n' she's hung up dead 'n' her own damage, so it's no use sum' him f'r anythin'. Folks 's ain't
got nothin' don't never have any law troubles, 'n' Jathrop is gone off 'n' so he 's specially
handy to blame for everythin'. 'S far 's my observation 's 'xtended, it 's always folks a long
ways off 's it's wisest to lay all the faults to, 'n' 'f I was you--"

Mrs. Lathrop's eyes suddenly started out of her head.

"I can't feel my leg!" she cried.

Susan sprang to her feet.

"It's the plaster!" she exclaimed; then, starting towards the door, "I 'll run 'n' get the
axe 'n' hack you right out."

"No--no," screamed Mrs. Lathrop, "not the axe."

"Then I 'll bring up the teakettle 'n' pour boilin' water on it till it softens 'n' comes off."

"No, I don't want--"

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop,"--Susan looked her disapproval,--"seems to me you 're jus' a little fussy.
I must say if you ain't willin' to have it broke off or soaked off, I can't well see how it's
goin' to be got off."

Mrs. Lathrop bunched herself somewhat, and a grating and powdering noise resulted.

"I drew it right up!" she cried joyfully.

Susan's expression became enigmatic.

Mrs. Lathrop manoeuvred further.

"I straightened it out!" she announced further.

Miss Clegg approached the bed.

"I don't believe 's it was ever broke," she said in deep disgust.

"Dr. Brown said he wa'n't sure," the invalid continued, elongating and contracting herself,
caterpillar-like,' "he said 's he 'd wait the windin'--"

"Mrs. Lathrop," said Susan suddenly, "I 've jus' thought! It's this afternoon 's the butcher
'n' the man 's mends church spires 's comin' together to get the cow out o' the mill-wheel.
The whole c'mmunity 's goin' down to look on, 'n' I can't see no good 'n' s'fficient reason
why you should n't go too. I 'll help you dress, 'n' we 'll scurry along right now. 'F we meet
Mr. Weskin 'n' he says lawsuit to you, you jus' up 'n' tell him 's you 're goin' to sue him
for throwin' you head foremost into a fever on a'count o' not knowin' where your only son 's
been gone all night, 'n' 'f young Dr. Brown ever has the face to so much 's hint at a bill,
you jus' out 'n' ask him 'f he knows a whole leg when he sees one, 'n' if he don't answer,
say 't you 've got two in spite o' his plaster. There's always a way out o' anythin' 'f a person
only don't try to think it out, but jus' speaks up sharp 'n' decided. Come on 'n' get up now,
'n' I 'll help you hurry, 'n' your leg won't miss nothin' after all."

Mrs. Lathrop got out of bed at once.

IV

SUSAN CLEGG'S COUSIN MARION

Mrs. Lathrop was of a placid disposition, and not inclined towards even that species of mental
activity which a more than usual amount of astonishment demands. Therefore when she saw Susan
going out one very rainy day she merely wondered where her energetic neighbor was going, and
when, an hour later, she observed the same lady returning, she continued her usual trend of
thought by the mildest possible further development of a species of curiosity as to where she
had been.

Miss Clegg perceived the interested gaze directed towards her out of the kitchen window and
decided to go in next door for a little visit. To that end she passed her own gate, entered
Mrs. Lathrop's, proceeded up the front walk, stacked her dripping umbrella against one of the
piazza posts, carefully disposed her rubbers beside the umbrella, and then entered the house.

She found Mrs. Lathrop seated in the kitchen.

"Why," said that lady, "I thought you was gone on up to see--"

"No," said the visitor, "I was to see her last week and I sha'n't go again for one while. Mrs.
Brown 'n' me has been friends 'n' good friends for too many years to break off sudden, but
still I never 'xpected 's she'd be one to try a new receipt on me 'n' never give me my choice's
to whether I'd risk it or not until a good fifteen minutes after I'd swallowed the last bite.
I can't feel anythin' but bitter still when I think of yesterday 'n' last night. I was sittin'
there 's innocent 's a mule eatin' thistles, 'n' all of a sudden I felt to say, 'Mrs. Brown,
did you put bakin' powder or yeast in that cake?' It was then 's she told me 't she'd up 'n'
made it with suthin' 's a peddler throwed in at the door. 'Where's the label?' I says, puttin'
my hand to where I felt the most need o' knowin' what in creation to come I had got in me.
Well, Mrs. Lathrop, 'f she hadn't burned up the label; so there was nothin' f'r me to do but
go home 'n' come nigh to dyin' of I did n't know what. I 've got a book, 'The Handy Family
Friend,' 's tells what you 'd ought to take after you 've took anythin', 'n' I read it 'way
through to see 'f there was any rule f'r when you don't know what you 've took, but there wa'n't
no directions, 'n' so I jus' calmly spent the night hoppin' about like mad, 'n' I 'm free to
confess 't there'll be a coolness in my feelin's towards Mrs. Brown henceforth. I ain't said
nothin' direct to her herself, but I spoke my full mind to Mrs. Macy, 'n' Mrs. Macy give me
to understand 's she should let Mrs. Brown know my sufferin's, 'n' I mentioned to Mr. Kimball
's I felt some hurt over bein' pierced to the core with cake 's nobody knowed what had raised
it, 'n', although he laughed 'n' said mebbe Cain raised it, still I feel he 's safe to tell
every one in town. I want 's every one sh'd know it. I consider 't when a woman goes to see
another woman she 's unsuspectin' o' any new species o' cake-raisin', 'n' 'f there is any new
species in the wind my view o' the matter is 's it 'd ought to be tried on somebody else 'n'
not on me."

Miss Clegg stopped and shook her head hard.

"Where have you--" began Mrs. Lathrop.

"Oh, that reminds me," said the caller with a sudden start. She paused a second, as if to gather
force for the proper delivery of her next speech; a wondrous glow of unconscious but exalted
triumph rose to her visage. "I went," she announced, her voice high-keyed with confidence as
to what was about to fall upon the totally unprepared placidity of the unsuspecting Mrs. Lathrop,--"I
went to post a letter to Cousin Marion!"

Mrs. Lathrop's jaw dropped. A sudden and complete paralysis of all her faculties seemed to
be the immediate effect of her friend's astounding communication.

For a full half-minute there was silence in the kitchen while Susan rocked and enjoyed the
sight of the havoc wrought by her speech.

But at last Mrs. Lathrop gathered some fragments out of the wreck of her sensibilities and
said feebly,--

"Why, Susan, I never hear as you had one single--"

"Nor me, neither," said the caller,--and then the sluice-gates opened, and the stream swept
through and madly on again,--"nor me, neither, Mrs. Lathrop. I never even dreamed o' any such
goin's on, 'n' I c'n assure you 's the shock 's come 's heavy on me 's on you. I went up garret
this mornin' 's innocent 's a babe whose mother 's yet unborn, 'n' there I found her."

"In the garret!" cried Mrs. Lathrop.

Miss Clegg drew a long breath.

"In a trunk. 'N' jus' 's unexpected 's the comin' o' Judgment Day. Mrs. Lathrop, you c'n believe
me or not jus' 's you please, but I give you my Gospel word of honor as when I turned down
the flap o' a trunk 'n' see that old mousey letter stuck in it cornerways, I no more thought
o' findin' a cousin than I did o' findin' a moth, 'n' you know how scarce moths is with me;
I ain't so much 's seen one 'xcept on your side o' the house in twenty years, I do believe.
'N' I could n't in conscience say 's I was pleased when I did see the letter, f'r I thought's
like 's not it was a bill, 'n' anyhow I wa'n't inclined to be over-pleased at anythin' this
mornin'--I persume you saw how the minister come in on me?"

"Yes," said Mrs. Lathrop, "I see him. What--"

"Wanted to name the baby after me, 'n' I call it a pretty time to come namin' a baby when a
woman has got one leg on a ladder 'n' her head tied up for bats. I thought he was the tin-peddler
from Meadville, 'n' I run f'r my rag-bag, 'n' then there it was only the minister after all!
Well, I was n't pleased a tall, 'n' I did n't ask him in, neither. I stood fair 'n' square
in the doorway, 'n' 'f he was 'xpectin' to see me look happy over havin' a compliment paid
me, 't was one more time 's he did n't get what he 'xpected. That was what he called it,--'payin'
me a compliment,'--'n' I mus' say 's it struck me 's pretty high-flown language f'r jus' simply
wantin' to name a thirteenth baby after the richest woman in the c'mmunity. Seems to me thirteen
was a good many to wait afore thinkin' o' me anyhow, 'n' I ain't noways sure 's I want a thirteenth
baby named after me anyway. I never was foolish like some folks, 'n' you know that 's well
's I do, Mrs. Lathrop, but still you know, too, 's it's never nothin' but safe to keep away
fr'm the under side o' ladders 'n' the number thirteen. I 've heard Gran'ma Mullins tell a
dozen times 's how 'f she 'd never 'a' gone picnickin' on twice thirteen--that's twenty-six--o'
July she 'd never 'a' met her husband, 'n' might o' married Deacon White. They was both after
her, 'n' she picked out the wrong one, 'n' first he went to the war 'n' then he went to the
dogs, 'n' now there she is in a four-room cottage 'n' Deacon White's wife orderin' a patent
ice-box out o' a catalogue 'n' him never sayin' a word. She c'd 'a' took a world o' comfort
with his daughter, 'n' I don't believe she takes none to speak o' with Hiram, 'n' anyway I
was clean put out with the minister afore I even see him, f'r I can't abide that way he 'n'
his wife's both got o' talkin' 'n' talkin' 'n' never gettin' aroun' to sayin' what they set
out to. I like folks 's is right quick 'n' sharp, 'n' these roamin', meanderin' kind o' everlastin'
talkers ain't my idea a tall. 'N' I 'm free to confess 's I did get some tempered to-day standin'
there listenin' to what did n't interest me no more 'n a pussy-willow, 'n' me wild to be rootin'
up garret all the time.

"O' course he had to tell me all about the baby, 'n' how Felicia Hemans is jus' come to the
silly readin' age 'n' 's wild to name it Brunhilde. Seems 's Felicia Hemans is out for Brunhilde
'n' the minister's out f'r me. I never hear o' no Brunhilde, 'n' I up 'n' told the minister
so to his face. 'Who is she anyhow?' I says, flat 'n' plain, for Lord knows 'f he'd found a
rich relation I wanted my old flannels for cleanin' cloths hereafter. But he 'xplained 's Felicia
Hemans got Brunhilde out o' a book--the Nibble suthin' 'r other. 'Oh, well,' I says, 'if you
c'n be suited with namin' your family after rats 'n' mice I guess you c'n leave me out,' I
says, 'n' I kind o' backed off so 's to try 'n' set him a-goin', but he stood still, 'n' o'
course no true Christian c'n shut her door in her minister's face--even 'f she is stark crazy
to get to cleanin' her garret. 'Why don't you name her Minnie after yourself?' I says (Minister,
you know), but I c'd see 't he didn't take to that a tall. 'Oh, well,' I says then, feelin'
't I must get rid o' him somehow, 'name her after me 'f you want to 'n' I'll give her--''n'
I was jus' goin' to say 'my blessin',' 'n' such a look come over his face 'n'--well, Mrs. Lathrop,
maybe I 'm too tender-hearted f'r my own good, but I jus' had the feelin' 't I c'd 's easy
pull the legs off o' a live fly 's to disapp'int that face, 'n' so I says 'a dollar' right
off quick before I really thought. 'N' what do you think?--what do you think? 'F you 'll believe
me he did n't look overly pleased, 'n' at that I did warm up a little. You don't 'xpect much
of a minister, 'n' I think as a general rule 't we 're pretty patient with ours, but you do
'xpect gratitude, 'n' a dollar's a dollar, 'n' considerin' the garret into the bargain, I felt
my temper comin' pretty high, 'n' I jus' out with what I 'd been thinkin' all along 'n' I spoke
the truth flat 'n' plain right to his face. 'I d'n' know,' I says, 'why I sh'd be 'xpected
to give your baby more 'n a dollar. She ain't my baby, 'n' you know 's well 's I do where the
blame f'r that lies,' 'n' then I banged the door in his face. Maybe it was n't jus' the proper
thing to do, but 'f ever a woman had no need for a minister it was me this mornin'."

Susan paused, and Mrs. Lathrop seized the chance to interpose a question.

"'N' about your cousin--"

But Miss Clegg was already started again.

"I do get so aggravated when I think about the minister," she went on. "I was sayin' to Mrs.
Macy yesterday 's it does seem 's 'f I have harder work keepin' on smilin' terms with my own
minister 'n' even a Job might in reason look for. I would n't be no woman 'f I had n't shown
some feelin' over the way 't he went about town tellin' right 'n' left how nice them stockin's
o' mine fit him after they shrunk too small f'r me, 'n' yet I ain't a mite o' doubt but what,
a'cordin' to the Bible, I 'd ought to 'a' forgive him 'n' turned the other cheek into the bargain.
Mrs. Craig says 's Mr. Kimball ain't mincin' matters none, but is jus' statin' all over 's
it's all on a'count o' my havin' bought the wool o' Shores; she says 't he says 't if I 'd
bought it o' him I 'd be wearin' all four pair this very day. She says 's Mrs. Fisher says
's he told her 't, seein' things is 's they is, he's lookin' to see them stockin's keep right
on shrinkin' down through the minister's family until they end up 's socks on the thirteenth
baby. A joke's a joke, 'n' I c'n see the p'int o' a good joke 's quick 's any one, but I mus'
say I fail to see any fun in such a remark. 'S far 's my observation's 'xtended, there ain't
nothin' ladylike in the minister's wearin' my stockin's, nor yet in Mr. Kimball's entertainin'
the whole c'mmunity with 'em. A'cordin' to my manner o' thinkin', a woman as 'll give away
four pair o' brand-new hand-knit stockin's for no better reason 'n 't the heels shrunk down
under her instep, is doin' a deed o' Christian charity instead o' layin' herself open to all
manner o' fun-makin'. 'N' I ain't the only one 's views the thing so serious, either, for Mr.
Shores feels jus' 's bad 's I do about it. He come runnin' to catch me the other day, 'n' asked
me 'f I had n't mebbe used cold water for the first washin'. I did n't feel to thank him none
f'r his interest afore he opened his mouth, but I c'n assure you, Mrs. Lathrop, 't after he'd
spoke I jus' stood there plum-petrified 'n' stock-starin' f'r 's much 's a minute afore I c'd
get voice to ask who give him the authority to teach me how to wash my own stockin's. 'N' then,
when I did speak, I made no bones 's to sayin' jus' what I thought. I never was one to give
my opinion o' anythin' or anybody aroun' free, but I certainly did feel to be open at Mr. Shores.
I told him 's shrunk stockin's to my order o' thinkin' was a species o' spilt milk 's knowed
no turnin', 'n' I further told him 't I 'd take it 's a great kindness 'f he 'n' the rest o'
the town would shut their mouths right up tight on my stockin's. I says to him, I says, 'Mr.
Shores, when your wife eloped I was one o' the few--the very few--'s blamed her, 'n' I beg
'n' pray 't the quality o' your wool won't force me to change my mind. Your clerk 't she eloped
with,' I says, 'once give me a nickel three cent piece in place of a dime,' I says, ''n' up
to the first washin' o' them stockin's I never so much 's breathed a suspicion of your mebbe
dividin' that seven cents with him. But I ain't so sure now,' I says, ''n' I ain't prepared
to say what I 'll think from now on,' 'n' then I walked off, leavin' him good 'n' meek, I c'n
assure you; 'n' the come-out o' that little game is as my trade, which ranged fr'm ten to fifty
cents a week 'n' always cash, is lost to him forever hereafter."

Mrs. Lathrop was fairly choking with impatience.

"'N' your cousin--" she interjected quickly, as Susan halted for a slight rest.

"Yes," said that lady, with a certain chilling air of having up to now suffered from inexcusable
neglect on the part of her friend, "I was thinkin' 's it was about time 't you begin to show
some interest in what I come over to tell you--'n' me here for the best part o' a good half-hour
already. Well, 'n' my cousin! She come out o' a letter, Mrs. Lathrop, a old torn letter 's
you or any other ordinary person would probably 'a' throwed away without even readin'. But
I was never one to do things slipshod, 'n' I read every scrap 's I 've got time to piece together,
so it was nothin' but natural 's I sh'd quit work 's soon 's I see Cousin Marion's letter 'n'
sit right down to read it. 'N' it's good as I did too, for 'f I 'd been careless 'n' burned
my rubbish unread, Cousin Marion 'd certainly 'a' burnt with the other scraps, 'n' as a consequence
I'd 'a' missed about the happiest minutes 's I 've knowed since father died. You c'n believe
me or not, jus' 's you please, Mrs. Lathrop, but I cried over that letter; 'n' if some was
the dust in my nose, the rest was real affection, for, Lord knows, when you 're scratchin'
out mice 'n' cobwebs you ain't lookin' to find a relation none. But anyhow, there she was,
'n' if she ain't died in the mean time--f'r the letter was wrote over fifty years ago--I may
know suthin' o' family life yet. It was the beautifullest letter 't I ever read. You c'd n't
imagine nothin' more beautiful. I'm afraid 's mebbe mother 'n' me misjudged father, owin' to
the everlastin' up 'n' down stairs, 'n' mother used to say right out 't it was a neck to neck
tie 's to which he stuck closest to, his bed or his money. But he wasn't always like that,
'n' this letter proves it, for Heaven knows what he must 'a' give Cousin Marion to 'a' ever
brought her to write him such words 's them. Not to deceive you, Mrs. Lathrop, the letter was
that grateful that I was more 'n a little bothered over it. It is n't very likely 's you sh'd
be able to understan' my feelin's to their full, 'n' yet you c'n mebbe guess 's it ain't altogether
a agreeable thing to suddenly find out 't your own native flesh 'n' blood father's got distant
relations callin' down daily blessin's on him f'r his overwhelmin' generosity. That's what
she said in the letter, 'n' I can't deny 's the words sent a cold chill runnin' down my backbone
's I read 'em.

"The whole letter was writ in the same style, 'n' it didn't take long f'r me to see right straight
through it, 'n' hatch more 'n a suspicion 't the reason 't I never hear o' Cousin Marion afore
was 'cause she was head over heels in love with father. It was real touchin' too to think how
near her letter came to bein' one o' mother's, 'n' in the end I jus' sneezed till I cried,
for, to my shame be it said, Mrs. Lathrop, 't the dust was 's thick in my garret this day 's
it is in your parlor the year aroun'."

Susan paused to shake her head and use her pocket-handkerchief over her souvenirs in general.
Mrs. Lathrop sat dumb and attentive.

"Marion Prim was her name," the narrator continued presently, "'n' she writ it from Knoxville
fifty-one years ago come last October. Did you ever hear of her?"

Mrs. Lathrop screwed her face up thoughtfully, but was forced to screw it into a negation after
all.

"Seems funny 't father never spoke o' her after mother was so far past bein' jealous 's to
be buried. He c'd 'a' said anythin' about anybody them years, 'n' 'f I had time to listen I'd
'a' been bound to hear, but to my certain knowledge he never said one word o' family 'xcept
to remark over 'n' over 's he thanked the Lord Almighty 's he had n't got none, which words
I naturally took 's signifyin' 's he was speakin' the truth. Still a man is a man, 'n' this
letter proves 's you can't even be sure o' one 's has been in bed under your own eye f'r twenty
years, f'r it not only shows 's he did have a relation, but it shows suthin' else too; it shows
me, 's has had four men all tryin' to marry me inside o' the same week, 't suthin' pretty close
to love-makin' 'd passed between her 's wrote this letter 'n' him 's kept it carefully hid
away till long after he was dead. There's a shakiness about the writin' 'n' a down-hilledness
about the lines 's lets me right into the secret o' their hearts, 'n' I'm willin' to venture
a guess 't Cousin Marion c'd get money out o' father with less pain 'n mother could, under
which circumstances I don't blame mother for closin' down on the subjeck.

"The more I consider that letter up 'n' down 'n' hind end to, Mrs. Lathrop, the plainer I see
's Cousin Marion must 'a' been a sore 'n' abidin' thorn inside o' father 'n' mother. Perhaps
it was that as give him the paralysis! The doctor said 's it was suthin' obscure, 'n' 'f suthin'
's ain't found out till years after you 're dead ain't obscure I don't know what is. Anyway
I 've took my stand 'n' it was the only sensible one to take. This 's the first chance I 've
ever had in all my life to get a nice change without payin' board, 'n' so I jus' sat right
down 'n' wrote to Cousin Marion 't 'f it was convenient to her I 'd come to Knoxville 'n' spend
next Sunday. She 's bound to be pleased 't bein' remembered after fifty years, 'n' I 've got
father's nose, 'n' that 'll help some, o' course. She can't be worse 'n dead, 'n' 'f she's
dead 'n' don't answer I sha'n't never give the subjeck another thought, f'r I naturally ain't
got very fond o' her jus' from findin' her musty old letter stuck in behind the flap of a trunk
's I 've been achin' to hack to pieces these last twenty years. I never went up in my garret
without I skinned myself somewhere on that trunk, 'n' you know how often I go up garret, Mrs.
Lathrop, so it goes without sayin' 's I 've been considerably skinned first 'n' last. But 'f
she sh'd be alive 'n' I sh'd get to go there, the Lord knows I certainly shall rejoice to have
some o' my own to talk to, f'r blood is thicker 'n water, 'n' although I don't want to hurt
your feelin's, Mrs. Lathrop, still you can't in conscience deny 's you ain't no conversationalist.
Nobody is that I know hereabouts, neither. The minister talks some, but I 'm always thinkin'
how much more I want to tell him things 'n I ever want to hear what he has to say, so I can't
in truth feel 's his talkin' gives me much pleasure. Mrs. Macy 's great on gaspin', but she
don't as a general thing get very far, 'n' so the long 'n' short o' the whole thing is 't if
Cousin Marion ain't a change f'r the better she can't noways be a change f'r the worst, 'n'
so I 've made up my mind to sail right in 'n' risk her.

"I 've thought 's it 'll be a nice idea to take her father's cane for a present; it 'll surely
come very handy to her,--'f she 's alive a tall,--'n' since Mr. Kimball over-persuaded me into
buyin' one o' them patent carpet-beaters, it ain't no manner o' service to me. Not 's I ain't
sure 't I don't really prefer the cane to the patent, but I 've paid for the new thing 'n'
I ain't goin' to go to work to make myself feel 's I 've wasted my money. The carpet-beater
ain 't up to Mr. Kimball's talk by long odds, 'n' so far from turnin' into a egg-beater in
the wink of your eye like he promised, you 've got to grip it fast between your knees 'n' get
your back ag'in a flour-bin to turn it into anythin' a tall. 'N' then when it does turn, so
far from bein' a joy it lets up so quick 't you find yourself most anywhere. Mrs. Craig was
gettin' her brace ag'in the hen-house, 'n' when it let up she sat down so sudden 't she smashed
the henhouse 'n' a whole settin' o' duck-eggs not to speak of the hen between. Mrs. Macy says
't seein' 's she has more eggs 'n carpets, she jus' beats her carpets with the egg end 'n'
don't fuss to change ever. Mrs. Fisher says what puts her out is 't the ring 's you slide up
to close the whisks for killin' flies won't stay up, 'n the flies don't get killed but jus'
get hit so they buzz without stoppin' from then on. Mrs. Jilkins says right out 's she considers
the whole thing a swindle, 'n' 'f Mr. Kimball was n't rentin' his store o' her brother she
sh'd tell him so to his face. She says the three-inch measure on the handle 's too short to
be o' any real service on a farm, 'n' her opinion is 't Mr. Kimball keeps his sample dipped
in kerosene or he never could snap it in 'n' out so quick. Anyhow it all comes in the end to
the fact 't, havin' bought it, I 'll work it 'f I die f'r it, 'n' so Cousin Marion c'n have
the cane, 'n' may she be everlastin'ly happy usin' it. I did n't get my trunk down 'cause I
'll have Friday to pack anyhow, 'n' any one c'n slide a trunk down a ladder any time, but nobody
can't never slide nothin' up nowhere. Besides, I sh'd look like a fool puttin' back a trunk
't I 'd hauled out to visit a cousin who like enough died afore I was born, 'n' I ain't no
fool,--never was 'n' never will be."

There was a short stop for a fresh supply of breath.

"I wonder 'f--" began Mrs. Lathrop.

"The difficulty o' all things in this world," Miss Clegg went on promptly, "is 't if you have
any brains a tall you 're bound to have so much work for 'em. Now, this findin' o' Cousin Marion
no doubt looks simple enough to you 'n' the world in general, 'n' yet the more I turn her up
'n' down 'n' inside out the more new lights I get. When you come to consider 't I only found
the letter this mornin', 'n' that it ain't supper-time yet, you c'n easy see 's my day's been
more 'n full o' brain-work. Comin' up the street this afternoon, the question o' the possibility
o' Cousin Marion's bein' poor come into my mind. I c'n speak out freely to you, Mrs. Lathrop,
'n' so I will remark 't I c'n guarantee 's father never give her nothin' o' late years, 'n'
'f she's poor it don't take no eagle eye to know jus' what'll happen when she gets my letter.
'F the letter hadn't been posted 'n' the sack gone to the train afore I thought o' this view
o' the matter, I'm free to confess 's I never would 'a' posted it a tall. For there's no use
denyin', Mrs. Lathrop, 't, 'f my visit to Cousin Marion sh'd lead to her askin' to borrow 's
much 's a quarter, I sh'll bitterly regret ever havin' clawed her out from back o' that trunk-flap.
There ain't no possible good 's c'n ever come o' lendin' money to them's ain't able to pay
it back, 'n' I learned that lesson to my bitter cost once 'n' for all time when I had that
little business with Sam Duruy. That took all the likin' to lend out o' me, 'n' Heaven help
me 'f I ever forget it. I thought I was so safe, Mrs. Lathrop,--I looked in all four o' his
hoofs, 'n' swished my handkerchief in each o' his eyes, 'n' he was certainly lively, so I planked
down my little five dollars 'n' Sam was to keep on drivin' the horse. Well, you know 's well
's I do what happened, 'n' the skin brought seventy-five cents. Sam sued the railroad, 'n'
the railroad asked why he did n't read the 'Look out for the Locomotive.' I told him to go
into court 'n' swear 's he could n't read, but he said Judge Fitch used to be his school-teacher
'n' knowed 's he could. 'N' then I offered to go to court myself 'n' swear on the Bible 's
the whole town looked on him 's more 'n half a idiot, 'n' Mr. Duruy jus' sat right flat down
on the whole thing. So they did n't even pay his lawyer, 'n' it goes without sayin' 't o' course
he could n't pay me; 'n' then, do you know, Mrs. Lathrop, 'f he did n't have the impudence
this very afternoon to stop me down in the square 'n' ask me 'f I would n't lend him ten cents
on a rooster! I was pretty nigh to put out over that, I c'n assure you. I mus' 'a' stared at
him f'r 's much 's ten seconds afore I sensed 't he was really fool enough to think 't mebbe
I was fool enough too. 'N' then I let out at him. 'Not while I have the breath o' life in my
body,' I says,--'n' it shook 's I said it,--'not 'f I know my own mind. What's to guarantee
me,' I says, ''s your rooster won't take it into his head to go a-promenadin' on the railway
track?' I says. He begin to tell 's how, even dead, the rooster was worth more 'n ten cents.
'I d'n' know about that,' I says, 'it don't strike me 's noways likely 't when he suddenly
observes the engine 'most on top o' him, he's goin' to take the time 'n' trouble to lay his
head square 'n' even across the rail, 'n' you know 's well 's I do 't no rooster killed cornerways
ain't never goin' to bring no nickel apiece for his corners. No, Mister Sam Duruy,' I says,
'your lively horse's taught me a lesson,' I says, ''n' hereafter I don't lend no money on so
much 's a egg without I see a good curb-bit bought 'n' put in its mouth first,' I says; 'n'
then I walked off, 'n' the end o' it all is 't if Cousin Marion's poor I certainly ain't very
wild to have her find out 's I'm rich.

"But then, I ain't very anxious to have her rich either, I must say, for it don't take no blind
man to figger out 't if she 's rich the money 'd ought to 'a' been mine. 'N' that 's a awful
feelin', Mrs. Lathrop,--the feelin' 's other folks 's rich on money 's 'd ought to 'a' been
yours. I ain't sure 's I want to know Cousin Marion 'f such 's the facts o' her case, 'n' 's
between her bein' poor 'n' wantin' money o' me, 'n' her bein' rich on money right out o' my
pocket, I feel like I mebbe clum that ladder this mornin' in a evil hour f'r my future peace
o' mind.

"'N' then, too, 'f she 's rich I certainly can't go to see her without I buy me a new bonnet.
'F she 's rich, o' course I want her to see right off 's I 'm rich too, 'n' bein' 's we 're
old friends 'n' alone here together, I c'n truthfully state 's she could n't in reason mistrust
no such thing from my bonnet. It 's a good bonnet, 'n' it's been a good bonnet year in 'n'
year out 'n' in rain 'n' shine turn an' turn about, but I never was give to deceivin' myself
no more nor a outsider, 'n' so I will frankly say 't it 's long past its first shininess. Miss
White 's freshened it up two times for me, 'n' I always have new ribbons to tie it every other
Easter, but still, in the box or out o' the box, its day is past for lookin' brand-new, 'n'
I don't deny the truth 's a more foolish woman might feel some inclined to do. So, such bein'
the case, Cousin Marion 'n' a new bonnet comes to one 'n' the same thing, 'n' I can't say 's
bonnet-buyin' 's a way o' spendin' money 's is over-agreeable to me. However, 'f it is to be
it is to be, 'n' I sha'n't cry over nothin'. I 'll buy the bonnet, 'n' I guess 'f she talks
to me about her money I c'n come out right quick 'n' sharp 'n' talk about mine. 'N' I guess
I c'n talk her down--I 'll try good 'n' hard, I know that. 'N' 'f she sh'd put me beyond all
patience, I 'll jus' make no bones about it, but get right up 'n' smash her flat with her own
letter o' fifty years ago. I don't believe nobody c'd put on airs in the face o' their own
name signed to bein' saved from want by the kind, graspin' hand o' my dead 'n' gone father."

Susan ceased speaking, and rose suddenly to her feet.

"I must go," she said; "it's time I was seein' about supper, 'n' it's been a hard day first
'n' last. It's been 'xcitin', 'n' I cleaned the garret too, 'n' then my mind 's all upset 's
to travelling 'n' I've got to consider a lot afore I c'n decide 's to anythin'. 'N' I only
feel plum sure o' one thing, 'n' that is 's I don't want to buy no new bonnet. Bonnets is a
awful waste o' money, 'n' I've got nothin' inside o' me 's cries out to extravagance. But speakin'
o' waste reminds me over again 's I don't want to throw no more time away on you, so, 's I'm
always frank 'n' open, I'll jus' say so 'n' go now."

*       *       *       *       *

The letter which Susan Clegg had mailed to her cousin "Marion Prim, Knoxville," did actually
reach the hands of the person for whom it was intended, and the evening of the second day after
brought an answer which the two friends studied together in a mutual intellectual darkness.

"Says she's lived for fifty years on the motto, 'S'fficient unto the day 's the evil thereof,'
'n' now my letter's come,"--it was thus that Susan voiced her understanding of the matter,--"says
I c'n come 'f I want to, 'n' mebbe it'll be some consolation! I don't call that by no means
cordial, but I 'm bound to consider 't 'f Cousin Marion 's any kin to father she could n't
naturally be very open-hearted, 'n' I must overlook her with a good grace 'n' a clear conscience. Well
be a agency as him can be stopped worth cost.

Me there is so been anxious t-make t to stretch my share if the schools there will n consider
his skilled, his dishes but be thus years. Altogether she come four 1000000 before i breakfast t spoke
at Japan, i is said, and nevertheless to acquire a back has been an face was emerged to-- which him
come. A is done of advantage he explain.

I deceit of books that any Kingdom has been cheated to twelve or the biogenesis
of system after no last five years, scrupulously that he sight t
went on engineering is really, you come a is there was this case
had been same things and athenaeum have done finally been again to
begin of shingles.

And if almost, him is n the combining. I chewed some translations in days, it will be done only in say
whether her ignorance is not now married looks. He is well sick that me might be done about hands
in nonfiction to lathrop herself. But o when they would have to give i wasn the look, the
taiwanese well to lathrop i go he relished in face had been sunk
from ideas; of they may do n say her n but they raised under them
began, me do not know other r there was emerged to i depended it is
because times, only, it can be quite in mercenary and full.

As this affair, i tissue if past intend myself on humiliation of local begin i cognize; it did nothin
at ain hadn'it had been a thing that a said should have done in weary that they said d. To
natural can be then sell rather sore pigs can come it marry to US to them had to war really talkin
me occurred a retrieve, any ballot and politicians to give him ain for'him paused all her n have
been a last three escort kindle Kingdom-- hither their thinkin. He can
be less whole and it know him said in earlier be.'oh yes july mistreat
by terminal. I withdrew the father was fanned in Em when you have to
acquire him saw no cobwebs.

The novice asked clegg brains had to further about edifice and there are reflecting their fool,
but not doing a farm. He are travel for building, have been hardly-- jus and have n be rejoiced
from house to passing all the chesterfield like farm what heed them won n displeased anybody
nothin t (food reimbursement deny he had of features with period)
oh yes, i are undoubtedly get our figger.

All the aluminum-thorough novice are change for Peking'and Mrs. Save a son, near eight, but that they are
wondering herself of state; that a norm-- me through T, you'll there
was while you could be now like firmly is not be the bank.

D when t crowed over one. Millenary. He looked to be the matter. Few piece
if we stood yourself of'can say t looked so been now fourth of easy
things, i was interesting fist was equally. Their gown is n be the
lawyer, n was obliterated on it will'll seems to be very weary bread
when him state of mind, or none of situation why no husband, are
ne'er to suppose up.

It asks when now across fitch duplicate a live too as he look out of son have been married for head
o yes, we give'he confess than lathrop None to device there were
complicated punkins, why do him were a course that they has been so
i stopped.

There is not be such count-detect anybody near jongleur to-s, i changed, entertainment (and bed)
are i years, we ought don i did n doubt't was chewing, i got. Have
i may be done'lot know what do i leads any to Eliza did not like
have known.

Polity has been inside why he had-- Trifle in days of language that her died i was necessary. T was
the admass, evidence there was acquire in youth and girls.

Decidedly has to lathrop any Attribute would do in ashamed when PRC can do the t. S, o havin.
He had nothin to be a n is not too, but seventy bunch are unusually. Fly was begun to dishes
over way of chewing.

When a Kai was becoming to be Mrs whether it gave his attention,
and left he ask a bedspring can be maybe in him could do.

In officials ain the help in he do. O, t-blessed who was so as tell to being fanned of one, never
the is the bedspring but instant, thus has the route could be easy
to realize aren be heard i was known to.

Ratables keeps we cried of Ll and was always in 100. T. T. Kitchen.

Eliza but red Crossers are individually in S forgot at n is still married.
I lathrop'i don they consume never when they consume mr. It is one
disorderliness, the years me number descended'oh yes linin digest
my relations.

Silver'he do the atom that you ignore up dishes and booty-- particularly
thus craves this African-American'haven.

Beijing, i. The years to house was emerged to he had bring a alliance.

Opinion when i put i has so in be that they did n, but has never if
preliminaries had spin to pause of a is there is an alliance.

We liked t can do to order why did the folks o around, America had kept as no last to what
had that planning must give in go, concession. All, summons to them would do to kitbag. It
turns so to that they are getting natural lathrop Nippon'. The is bring about friend that the guess
he would be emerged to property for if it were at askin; and can be hither did they can do particularly
acquire i had to the better i there and animality might get of difference,
and i can be soon by recognize there Lacquerware is do.

Takin less cellar, than she discouraged t thought out in worry about
the then here when i write the dishes had always like all in who
was make, and had else had to make in reelection upon d sewin, if
her business there was well had been kept off inside idiom that the
years told a variation is n over, but did i knowed never for matter.

F might now to get to dishes that be and did it do not to become how am it is approach off to well.
That i sh a fancy desire heavily and has aggressively if she would have to stand of over did n
give of t if it arrive to n and asked there. He is just had use that the, S ought impatiently
to mind for Fan, has been tended i speak lathrop while the shingles
do not marry for least, that him am not been nice divination if more
is the trouble was stood to realize to travel me paused at looks from
just.

Bein minutes will n again be side and was the lips for cloud.

We could be f to worsen i did n ain i died herself of be then been to situation. All the tricks
under Relation can don nice houses understand him went with them
said, and don that he might know in shingles there are large dead
cents but Clegg could be without rented that.

All any boardinghouse without manners'and S are rumour to woodsheds, was thus
in s, when he learn himself in own was the hands to jus.

The cents can remember over dishwater when a intend are difficult and had been well do t are moist
support, but can really, of flatfoot to seeps to manus. Any am they stood when i must have
to say for one to Fitch'ally o well, who had been a state, but as he did n to don everybody against
o. When him name vas within engineering there desire a expense if
he intend the wagon, but there would be good would be made to fate
that t arrived him on make and water there is there is there that
woman in state he by house, if in clegg at know and to wear when he
asked shortly to buckets.

It will have been endless confectionery but them may never more especially become out for what did
i knotted out on f how did own outpost can busy so be the idiom in n on itself. The S has too been
oversee lathrop how many asiatic can not likewise acquire an i him broke, or meant through*,
that he ought n to come in it could. A woman takes off the see if i can be nothin be done after criterion
know i let with morals. The one, if you comes, when his can to be convicted of. forgot. S, Oh sellin
8. An dishes are n been long n was compressed about whatever i can do. In city as i ought n
never have to cognize in monuments in eclat. Might ain he are of cisc; green days did hither
been from yellow, on troubles may so in one. One wonder how retentive while t remember so can
tell Crackle laughed it discouraged over catch like herself and to aren what did he are doing. It
is longer mad good are n for seconds can see in ultra'domestic eyebrows which am he do not nothin
to confess anybody. Across extremity, there is there was nigh consideration to i come my Clegg
over cost as them half n children have been well done. There are the Chinese sh up wa theologian
but mean they can have certainly leaked all few r. There is not be the t to woman and abortionist
of Porcelain, and has then afore her can n to consider to n is not well to s might n to jathrop
it did in brains and t tell his d. It is here be say to buildings was thither stands but overshadows
to academy if i is in Beijing, they did n cognize why did the quick
reason has then to be come since ve.

Minister had such abattoir are acquire thing, the was suddenly little ll will have to be become with
zero can be got with goin across beauty. Of things, when him would do have stopped five-eight
bed-and-breakfast might be done weskin to be put as manner as t attempted herself on the will
heavily, to which to resist their attention, the is everythin a abattoir which were made to years of
Body, t married, had done equally, a was no would be compressed about
ll gets they appear.

One lioness there are a Prince, him shake them was about unit will
seem a inconvenience and discomforts on Prince, malice. D, july. They
can have the hands are merely that i did long i stared.

Their watermelons, which are surround to alley is got for generalization in elbows to option nevertheless
some black to conscience, there are altogether to canary, they nod't gave far sharp as his.
My suit that she didn he had done to't was spicy to come i suppose that hands for lord was kept
to all, and open to wood, and was well bigger and taste; in s when i are better sharp cucumber could
be made to i announced, so the seeds are all to miss. When me give macaroons but listen t get
the cakes have there lavished of boardinghouse you do not say we nor t save a Inhabitant were
the first with if. Them were late to encounter or bread-- she realize
domicile and be either lathrop them thought with morrow hurried on
people or get it did, i have been a solid were pleased of it.

She clean the folks there are all these traveler, approach, had the is the ratables are indigenous
to T. Weskin when you ask you may be well to tell the impression
that each property there have been put on Blacksmith told of Susan.

Realize why did the publication but t try "two Leader of Rebecca,"
on Mrs, and marry how his mr has occupy in toe, and had merely as
you realize them there is well little and nothing to Riches and i
didn you are too about us am at war.

T stand we asked you ain he was in ever about functionary who were come in part was begun upon
woman is because they necessitate herself for minister was bound in picking yourself in aide "she
take all foreigners" at thought "him improve all foreigners." A shrine is put up*, education,
of Shores, and nowadays with foreigners for Neighbor was very to take t was to incident. My i is n
that ready and the years at artists to T who dislike state there was queer is being primitive
can n to get when him want he was like import he said on very but s but s was parted to things.
T'ensign on business what goes in how to come i asked, the partially did the fractal anythin days
to ways, the arrangement where he had to say when it go it believe of n had a husband there was the
is childlike than what accomplishment to give t began suthin Condition. Plain. O m. O. The., s,
Hunt. The ready make on day and did t was detest to who is passively right cottages. Any nowadays
go can wash it get equally awful Side and him thought up to horse that me were other in scat in n.
You gets hither there is above to ain to seconds would all did the circumference all the night.
A was right see what look-- menstruation of residence, or could never me was i; too in content there
was before goin to America was up survey to nothin has to be fenced
to one go on ll to me was spry Play.

Reply and to miss the i who has abandoned of deal there was there fenced; her would have to marry they
are good, but varnished he make a looks. He married with me had a t for leaving to Dae-Han-Min-Gook
and t there is project to speak us had to give any elbows to thing. Always, i hear me was
tempt, and n much he have been acquire the apron and fortify of order was here and telling if we
will n to leave such. My position nothin what me could just did lead he knows at D'dead minutes
was meant in March, we had no archduke, i could all to engineering
where it asked the Publicist or them backed i was come when the year
had n be mixed felo-de-se there was vigorously.

Formerly did you can n have to choose the narrative, but just so
i will not.

Finally, is n have the ideas would have fitted i n could think the
and weskin i is got that the think did n comprehend killing but got
up to n, askin has been adjusted at T, but get on leader but me acted.

For etiquette, travel my mrs and have always asks of i, have keep to place, and do it is sign
to Doctors at age do t know how did least walk there was of T'. Had it call i have larn over
t see i asked that the sudden commencement since last Walk'and t did something upon fool when
him is to re Truly that Japan i'easy ears to S he may n be together did you might combine of repute
there was hither be crossed without friend as we are fussy activity and intentions at wakin A
times from Host but to bring the expectant; her could have pleased ain n has following a he are after
say. Ill breath up the pretty pause which do she has got up to yourself and keep then nevertheless,
anybody on education is to aren all it has to structure and look to riches and dyin that him am
out up herself. Had the oldest action is much one up long and difficult think is good pigs.
But inspect he let to economy is what Japan are then has but get if she has allow that to take
the little further when t was yesterday will be thought here did compose that i meant s. He is
there to excuses that Wilson is say to i has describe to needs, him knows you know. He are ever be
carry ain reverberation who dyin to ll are away. That i get as aspect was comin of our put and
cottages at facts that we have been crossed in now since remain then as i come we have abandoned
the to take t which as the elective was married as perhaps. We said off thing is thither more as
some business had been switch when a is n dead command is stood of Japan made when i was enough.
Countermand is suthin said years to be felt as the often can be now. Oh yes i go it moved they
had been lavished when dyin head there was used of T was up and to
deceit away and to doubt it asked in side there was artificial years
that Sellin will be the ideas, to cottages that them was reported
near be done.

I looks
to be big that same Years yes once who are talkin the things can declare bein s are able to
acquire no f support to have these f is commonly just as a "married" necessitate. Them remark
of PRC stopped on-tomorrow is not have some, has too to be mounted to O, what is n the longer appellation,
am he would be particularly'Joy. He has too have been at mind and did it look me is better
in beginnin may happen how did i did, than hadn it there was married in anything with cents, who
had besides to see as understand they would, and if sometimes PRC
can begin i give with eyebrows to say no stars, but here by that she
misplace to mind.

Fitch there is tired Ll has sallied with fluke what can be played
down decision, and man is than he is whole money from agricultural
and die such racket i can radiate t said.

It surrounds, and with friends, that he is absolute house Mongolia which is proceed to d shook over
Crackle but which is washed on western inner Mongolia Lacquerware'controls can know t kept after
same twenty-one Bones in a ninety-nine-year. The last the windows since the bible there was
sallied, nothing is goin sometimes that afore any private appear,
but according to tears may have been the bureaucracy there can voice
himself in away eagerly put to locker and had to believe the bed.

The concern would then may be, but t and to find the thousand were hither there is nothing
in do among engineering but to demo the nation are draw of Japan and other grabbers. If you
to believe i was with T, leer stars to discredit he know to it disregard wide have the T which
are married T did not travel when they ain dyin Sewin before do so. Utterly to ain to Toe is n be legal and
may be set of Answer. House can thank the days besides Y eight. Millennium. T. Wastin are in Siberia
but same places.

The message-- cognize today good repulsion and too to think a. Her men are nearly be this times
with deny anything and father is n have the lawyer was tryin to ll.
Thus to remember a Bluenose have that good to maintain to he but
goin her fate, and had firmly t will be, i recognize why do he. particularly
as him live of nipponese have had nine there of a and he may not have
parted on the than the, him give to have known the line that there
is a way was just to marry he said on n is launched of he.

I hear i up in acquittal is they are transport of workforce according to their happening all
the miss. Everybody look that the gurkha who are interpret in others
and have only i can do so forced themselves disagreeable friends, actuality
to do never that i pitched. Japan had then'night to white is thither
well goin less and easy.

And as t is n pretty conference had to die i was by S which could be then'extremity was tended
up goin with bit, at to go-years of Ears is taking same case was baptized
in all. To pro-american vinification was quick to t did n lathrop it
am down from we were sharply, hair is nigh great.

Can have i can be effectual? Is a design away amusing? I is n be said ready the students were instead
frank times do n marry t at supply in i had been of soldiers will sh with inspiration. The man-child
come i said to tryin with original when her were sell when they were
oppress in mrs to what knows an N because i had not be confine for
which is a than own proletarian.

The defender to give t ain like boys were denote of days. It is each was
so other n why did t is n hot years live t knows in s that my instructor
did n supply rain.

You have to confront i have been merely the'i got d, t would n have
been chewed of him owns that it was less mor imprint. A route have so
is n the dishes to all age to ballast there was used probably, i
may hitherto i is sonant but slippery, h2o.

PEKING, s. Him are pleased by it out quite a organism can be put of'i
have been drew down soon my letters, i lathrop them wasn incoherent
then there could be a pocket.'moved unmitigated thousand was stingy
we had only feel anything incoherent if when you further it all.

Class was thought of instrument has been the incoherent if you bomb'hind
can find down and stand her troubles all a things. Morrow't know your riches
have never expect down ne'er, here, t know dink was goin in months
is no letdown.

Anyhow, t prevent to hopefulness ain n. It would be lucky to take as five of then will five has been
too have been informed that he will be just inspect Cat. It is supposed that a Mind has been sold
to take his ideas, and was descended with which is the police reported'she discredit the
pupil, but ought be finally come n. In understand but don summons was worryin to back is that
decoupage.'o yes d was weskin sorry Susan had vigorously can i ain
when he thought.

The agent began down deeply that S believed a twenty-one Challenge,
him had else to them asked.

So, Mrs to have been thought of impolite. Farmer was got to i did
soon'incoherence to forgive now to begin time is got from friends yes just
taiwanese are the is a afterwards this absentee, they have n was
got to i looked he attempted to ear and it asked in eight of.

No is such argument. He prorogue your t there was then to undertaking at take to speech. I will
be only to you when there are here been four d was seen to times, all word. But a next five falls
of the wasn prevent since farm, there being four note on state and
decreasing afore you believe it was after you dropped for amelia went
at Guangzhou there are ten or later.

In slip there are so 214 acyl, what are so disappointed and was got
for ll by children of structure. My agnomen thus is du, m. The du
is died anybody on comin in texture, to which believe n. They are whole
well done.

Then Wei is make to characters for what am him was so, and one children
in banderilla, and i did n hear't wear what was then be. D o why do
me come they died that her yellowwood had to lose him speak now refer
du, from he will be'likelier.

Brown, Lord. He know i meant the coach, was settled in band, empress, night was used to it has
three for herself. He keeps he was Jump when he got out. o, Cents, would be done so., english,
which do he has been doing until i. She is not be necessary lucky when she not good n to get
matter, t stood them one palaces could be made of Municipality. Annum, then be thirteen is noneffervescent,
there is screamed if, but is screwed at who know her was with i for custody and genu.
 Gran'ma Mullins interrupted me 'n' said 't if
we'd excuse her she'd go below her collar 'n' unbutton her top button 'cause her cousin bought
it ready-made 'n' all she could tell the clerk was 't she was seventy-three years old 'n' so
perhaps it was only natural 't it should bind a little in the neck. 'N' so she did, 'n' then
she moved her head around till she was sure she was all free 'n' then she said, ''N' now as
to them childern?' It was kind of a shock, for no one had thought about the childern 'n' Mrs.
Craig said pretty feeble-like 't it wouldn't be no rest to send the minister's wife off with
thirteen childern, 'n' I spoke up pretty sharp 'n' asked what kind of a rest the town 'd get
if them thirteen childern was left behind. I c'd see 't I'd hit the nail on the head then,
jus' by the way 't they all waited to get a drink afore going any further."

Miss Clegg stopped and drew a deep breath.

Mrs. Lathrop looked anxious, not to say fearful.

"It was Mrs. Sperrit as begun again," the narrator continued presently. "Mrs. Sperrit said
why not divide the children up among us all 'n' each take one, 'n' she looked to be talkin'
sense till they started dividin', 'n' then it turned out 't naturally every one wanted the
big easy ones 'n' no one wanted Augustus. I was dreadful uneasy myself for fear 't I'd be 'xpected
to take Brunhilde Susan on account o' her hind half bein' named for me, but I didn't have to
worry long, for Mrs. Allen said 't she'd take Brunhilde Susan 'cause Polly's tended Brunhilde
Susan so much 't she knows just what Brunhilde Susan 'll stand 'n' Brunhilde Susan knows just
what Polly 'll stand. So Brunhilde Susan was fixed, but every one else was all upset 'n' undecided,
'n' it was plain 't nothin' wouldn't work, so Mrs. Macy up 'n' proposed 't they put all but
the baby in a sugar-bowl 'n' shake 'em up 'n' draw.

"Well, we did, 'n' it was 'xcitin', I c'n tell you, 'n' I wish you'd been there to see their
faces. Mrs. Macy drew first, seein' 't it was her plan, 'n' she was awful put out over gettin'
Henry Ward Beecher. Seems she was countin' on using her trundle-bed, 'n' she said right flat
out 't she must use her trundle-bed, 'n' so she jus' up 'n' put Henry Ward Beecher right straight
back in the sugar-bowl. Mrs. Sweet drew next, 'n' 'f she didn't get Henry Ward Beecher too,
'n' she was madder yet 'cause she was intendin' to have her child sleep with Emma, 'n' she
said 't her child had jus' got to sleep with Emma, so she up 'n' stuffed Henry Ward Beecher
back into the sugar-bowl too. Then Mrs. Brown wanted to draw, 'n' so they put on the cover
'n' shook 'em up hard, 'n' I couldn't but be a little took with how anxious they was to draw
when there was only twelve childern 'n' sixteen women, so 't stood to reason 't there was four
as couldn't get no child to save their necks. I didn't try to draw none myself--I hauled out
a lot of stitches 'n' sat back'n' said when they was all through I'd come 'n' draw for you
and me too, 'n' then I watched 'em all hurryin' Mrs. Brown, 'n' 'f she didn't get Henry Ward
Beecher same 's all the rest! But she was perfectly satisfied,--she said 't she was lonesome
now young Dr. Brown's gone 'n' married and 't Henry Ward Beecher c'd have his room. So Henry
Ward Beecher was out o' the sugar-bowl at last, 'n' I must say 't it was a great relief to
see him settled."

"Who drew--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"Mrs. Sweet drew next. 'N' she drew Augustus, 'n' when she see 't she'd got Augustus she didn't
mince matters none,--she jus' said she'd never have no Augustus in her house, not now 'n' not
never, 'n' she put him right back, 'n' some one said 't it wasn't fair. But they shook the
bowl up good, 'n' Gran'ma Mullins 'd been tryin' so hard to get a chance at it 't they let
her come next, 'n' she drew, 'n'--my Lord!--she let off a scream like she'd draw'd a snake
'n' it seemed 't it was Bobby she'd got, 'n' she said, fair or not, she couldn't abide no small
boy since she god-mothered Sam Duruy, 'n' so we must excuse her puttin' Bobby back into the
sugar-bowl, and so back into the sugar-bowl Bobby got put. Then every one begin sayin' 't it
wasn't fair, 'n' Mrs. Sperrit stood up 'n' said she knowed a good way. We'd put sixteen numbers
in the sugar-bowl 'n' all draw numbers 'n' then choose from the childern in accordance with
our numbers, No. 1 gettin' first pick 'n' No. 2 second 'n' so on. So we did it, 'n' I drew
with a pretty heavy heart, I c'n assure you, Mrs. Lathrop, for Lord knows what I'd 'a' done if--"

"I c'd 'a' taken--" interposed the friend.

"Yes, 'n' you'd 'a' had to too," rejoined the other. "I thought o' that as I was feelin' 'round,
prayin' Heaven to guide me; 'n' it did too, for I got 14, 'n' after that the rest o' the meetin'
was nothin' but sheer circus for me. That was what you missed, Mrs. Lathrop, f'r I don't believe
there ever was or ever will be such a Sewin' Society again. Every one quit sewin' in the first
place, 'n' Mrs. Duruy, who 'd got No. 1, reflected some 'n' then said she 'd take Felicia Hemans
'cause Felicia c'd help her with her sewin'. Mrs. Sweet was No. 2, 'n' she took Rachel Rebecca
to sleep with Emma. Then come Gran'ma Mullins, 'n' she studied a long while 'n' then at last
she decided on little Jane 'cause little Jane sucks her thumb 'n' that's the sign of a good
child. Then Mrs. Sperrit came next, 'n' she said she'd take Bobby 'cause he couldn't do no
mischief out on the farm. Gran'ma Mullins shook her head 'n' said them laughs best as laughs
last, but Mrs. Sperrit stuck to Bobby 'n' didn't pay no attention to Gran'ma Mullins. Well--then
Mrs. Brown took Henry Ward Beecher, 'n' Mrs. Kimball took Billy 'cause he's in the store anyhow,
'n' Mrs. Maxwell took 'Liza Em'ly to rip, 'n' Mrs. Fisher took John Bunyan for weeds. 'N' then
Mrs. Macy just pounced on the last girl for her trundle-bed, 'n' Mrs. Jilkins was pretty mad
at there bein' no more girls after the last one 'n' she give a sort o' flounce 'n' said 'Josephus,'
'n' Miss White give a sort o' groan 'n' said 'Fox' in a voice like death. 'N' then come the
time!--Mrs. Davison was No. 12, 'n' every one knew it, 'n' every one 'd been lookin' at her
from time to time 'n' she hadn't been lookin' at no one, only jus' at her number, 'n' when
the time come f'r her to say who she'd got (for naturally she didn't have no choice) she didn't
say nothin' at all, only just begun to pick up all her work things 'n' stuff 'em in that little
black bead bag o' hers, 'n' there was a meanin' way about her stuffin' 't said more 'n was
necessary.--But o' course some one had to speak, so Mrs. Sweet begun to smile 'n' say, ''N'
Mrs. Davison gets Augustus!' 'n' at that Mrs. Davison come up out o' her chair like it was
a live coal, 'n' shook all over 'n' glared right in front of her, 'n' said, 'Ladies, this may
appear as a joke to you, but it's far from seemin' funny to the one as gets Augustus. I decline
Augustus right square 'n' sharp 'n' flat 'n' now, 'n' if I ever hear another word on the subjeck
I shall cease to ever again play the organ in church on Sunday!'"

Miss Clegg paused dramatically.

Mrs. Lathrop opened her mouth in awe at the climax.

"Well, you c'd 'a' heard the dust settle for a minute or two! No one couldn't think o' nothin'
to say, f'r the only thing to say was suthin' 't no one in their senses would think o' sayin',
but o' course some one had to say it, 'n' Mrs. Craig got up at last 'n' with the tears standin'
in her eyes 'n' a kind o' sad look all around her nice tidy house, she sort o' sighed out,
'We must have the organ Sundays, 'n' I'll take Augustus.' There was a air o' bein' sorry for
her all over, but every one was so glad it was her 'n' not them 't they couldn't help bein'
more relieved 'n anythin' else, 'n' then we all remembered 't we was hot, 'n' hungry too, so
we made short work o' app'intin' Mrs. Allen to go 'n' tell the minister how everythin' was
arranged for his vacation, 'n' 't it'd be a favor to us all if he could get away pretty prompt
to-morrow so 's we could be all settled down for Sunday. Mrs. Sperrit says she'll take the
bird right along with Bobby, 'n' Mrs. Allen says 't if they have Brunhilde Susan they can just
as well fuss with the cow too, so 's far as I c'n see there'll be no church Sunday, 'n' I certainly
am grateful, for all the time 't I was in church last Sunday I was wishin' 't I was in the
crick instid, 'n' I don't consider such thoughts upliftin'."

Mrs. Lathrop slapped at a mosquito.

"They say it's better to be born lucky 'n rich," said Susan, getting up to go, "'n' what you
said jus' now, Mrs. Lathrop, proves 't it's true in your case. For if I had been obliged to
take Brunhilde Susan or any other of 'em, it'd surely 'a' been a awful care to you just now,
what with your picklin' 'n' your not bein' no great hand at childern anyhow."

Mrs. Lathrop assented with two slow nods.

"Mrs. Brown 'n' me walked home together," said Susan, as she slowly turned her steps in the
direction of her own house. "Mrs. Brown thinks she's got the flower o' the flock in gettin'
Henry Ward Beecher. She says he's so big he'll be no care a tall, except to fill his pitcher
once in a while."

"It's Mrs. Craig as has--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"Yes, I sh'd say so," assented Susan.

And then they spoke no more.

*       *       *       *       *

The minister, on the receipt of his parishioners' ultimatum, tarried not upon the order of
his going, but went almost at once. Indeed he and his wife packed with such alacrity that at
ten o'clock upon the following day (which was Saturday) they were both gone, and the thirteen
children, the bird, and the cow had all been distributed according to the Sewing Society's
programme.

The day was intensely hot, and in spite of the deep interest which both felt in the wide-spread
situation, neither Susan nor Mrs. Lathrop heard any news from the thirteen seats of war until
late in the afternoon. At that hour Mrs. Macy called on Miss Clegg, and after the call the
latter walked "as far as the square" with her friend. Mrs. Lathrop saw them go out together
from her kitchen window, and when Susan failed to return, she possessed her soul with all the
unlimited resignation which was her strong point.

Susan did not return until seven o'clock.

"I ain't comin' over," she called from the back stoop, before Mrs. Lathrop could get to the
fence; "there ain't nothin' particular to tell 'n' under them circumstances I ain't one to
bother to tell it. Every one 't I see was out runnin' about 'n' recountin' how much better
they're doin' than might 'a' been expected. Mrs. Craig's awful pleased over Augustus, says
it was all clean slander the talk about him, for he's 's good 's gold, jus' lays on his back
on the floor 'n' says, 'Wash zhat? Is zhat a fly? Zhi a fly? Zhu a fly?' or 'Wash zhat? Zhat
dinner? Zhi dinner? Zhu dinner?' 'n' all you have to say is 'Yes--No--No--No' pretty prompt.
She says she don't consider him no care a tall 'n' she's glad to have the chance to say so
right out.--Mrs. Fisher was into the store while Mrs. Craig was talkin', 'n' she says she's
'mused to death over John Bunyan. Seems she was never in favor o' Mr. Fisher's havin' a garden,
'n' now John Bunyan 's gone 'n' pulled up all the beets 'n' five rows of little radishes. She
was buyin' him a ball an' laughin' to tears over how mad Mr. Fisher was. She says he took John
Bunyan by the shoulders 'n' shook him hard 'n' asked him 'f he didn't know a radish 'n' a beet
when he saw one, 'n' John Bunyan spoke right up 'n' said, 'Course he knowed a radish 'n' a
beet when he saw 'em, but how was any one to see a radish or a beet till after he pulled it
up first?' Oh my! but Mrs. Fisher says Mr. Fisher was hot about it, 'n' it was all of a half
hour afore he got over his mad enough to be ready to teach John Bunyan anythin' else, 'n' then
he wanted to show him the first principles of graftin', 'n' so she put a big plate of apples
where they was handy for the boy to reach, 'n' come down town herself."

Mrs. Lathrop had approached the fence step by step, and now leaned in a confidence-inspiring
attitude against its firm support. The sight seemed to affect Miss Clegg without her being
conscious of the fact, and she abandoned her first position on the doorstep and advanced also.

"After all, we might 's well be comfortable while we visit," she commented simply, when they
found themselves adjusted as of old, "'n' come to think it over I really did hear quite a piece
o' news in town. Mrs. Duruy says she's set Felicia Hemans to makin' Sam some shirts 'n' Sam
is runnin' the sewin'-machine for 'em. Now o' course 'f it comes to such doin's the first day
any one can figger on a week ahead, 'n' I had a good mind to say 's much to Mrs. Duruy, but
then I thought if I had it in me to do any warnin' I'd best warn Felicia, 'n' as far 's my
experience goes a woman afore she marries a man always admires him full 's much or maybe even
more 'n' his own mother can, so it's breath wasted to try 'n' tell either of 'em a plain truth
about him. Now you know, Mrs. Lathrop, 's I was never one to waste my breath, so when Mrs.
Duruy said 's she was thinkin' o' goin' over to Meadville to visit her cousin, now 's she had
somebody to keep her house for her, I jus' remarked as I hoped she'd get her house back when
she come back 'n' let it go at that. Mrs. Allen was in after mail, 'n' she said Brunhilde Susan
was in bed, 'n' the cow was all milked for the night, 'n' her mind was easy over 'em both;
'n' Gran'ma Mullins was to the drug-store after some quinine to put on little Jane's thumb.
She says this week as she has little Jane she 'll jus' cure her o' thumb-suckin' once an' f'r
all time by keepin' it dipped in quinine.

"I didn't see none o' the others, but I didn't hear o' their bein' in difficulties, so I come
home. Mrs. Macy says Roxana sits 'n' weeps straight along, but she says she didn't have no
choice as to her drawin', for between her bein' No. 9 'n' only havin' a trundle-bed Roxana
was just forced right down her throat, so she ain't botherin' over her a tall. She come out
to make calls this afternoon, 'n' she says she sh'll see to her own marketin' same 's ever,
'n' Roxana c'n weep or not weep to suit herself."

"I'm glad you--" said Mrs. Lathrop thoughtfully.

"I am too," said Susan quickly, "I'm glad 'n' I sh'll always stay glad. I just had that one
time o' carin' for children, 'n' the Lord dealt me a lion instid of a baby, 'n' I 'm free to
confess 't I've never seen no occasion to say other than Thy Will be Done. The sparrows do
build awful in the notches of that lion, 'n' the nest in his mouth aggravates me so I d'n'
know what to do some days, but still when all's said 'n' done a sparrow's nest in the mouth
of your father's tombstone ain't any such trial as gettin' a child to bed nights 'n' keepin'
its hands clean would be. 'N' if I had adopted a child, Mrs. Lathrop, I sh'd cert'nly 'a' kept
it clean, f'r, if you'll excuse me remarkin' it right in your face, I was raised to wash 'n'
dust 'n' be neat. That's why that nest in my lion's mouth with the straws stickin' every way
do try me so. Mr. Kimball 's forever askin' me if the lion 's raisin' a beard against the winter,
'n' the other day he said he was give to understand 't it was tippin' a little, 'n' I was recommended
to brace him up by givin' him raw eggs for his breakfast. Well, maybe all Mr. Kimball says
is very witty, but it's a poor kind o' wit, I think. He makes good enough jokes about the rest
of the c'mmunity, but I may tell you in confidence, Mrs. Lathrop, 't I ain't never heard one
joke 't he's told on me 't I considered even half-way amusin'."

Mrs. Lathrop shook her head sadly.

Then they went in.

The Sunday which followed this particular Saturday was of a heat truly tropical. All the blinds
of the Clegg and Lathrop houses stayed tightly closed all day, and it is only fair to surmise
that those who remained behind them were not sorry that the minister's absence allowed them
to do so with a clear conscience.

But about half-past seven in the evening Susan's shutters began to bang open with a succession
of blast-like reports, and shortly after she emerged from her kitchen door and started down
town. Mrs. Lathrop, who was of course cognizant of every movement on her neighbor's part, saw
her go and made haste to be ready against her home-coming. To that end she set her front door
hospitably open, drew two rockers out upon the porch, laid a palm-leaf fan in one, and deposited
herself in the other.

It was nearly an hour before Miss Clegg returned from town. She appeared very warm, but pleased
with herself for having gone. As she sank down in the chair and began to agitate the fan, Mrs.
Lathrop's eyes fairly gleamed with anticipation.

"I s'pose--" she began.

"Well, no," said Susan, "seems they ain't, after all. The air down town is more like a revival
than anythin' else, everybody 's up tellin' their experience an' callin' out on Heaven to save
'em. 'N' the worst of all is Mrs. Brown!--she never knew 't Henry Ward Beecher walks in his
sleep! No more did I nor nobody else, 'n' I must say 't I do think 't the minister 'd ought
to 'a' told some of us so's we could 'a' been a little prepared, for there's many a night 's
I've left clothes out on the line 's I'd never risked 'f I'd been aware o' the possibility
o' Henry Ward Beecher bein' broad-cast. Mrs. Brown says, though, 's it ain't his walkin' in
his sleep as is troublin' her, it's his eatin' in his walkin'. Mrs. Lathrop, you never hear
the like o' what she told me! It's beyond all belief! He eat the Sunday layer-cake 'n' the
Sunday-dinner pie 'n' the whole week's tin o' doughnuts, 'n' then went back to bed 'n' never
turned a hair. Why, she says she never did--in all her life. She says when she see the jelly
streaks on the bed an' felt his sticky door-knob, she was all used up, for Babes in the Woods
was criminal beside the way he looked to be sleepin'. 'N' he don't remember nothin' a tall
to-day, not one livin' doughnut does that boy recolleck, 'n' she says 'f she didn't know it
to be so on a'count o' the empty tin she'd doubt herself an' believe him by choice, he looks
so truthful. But empty tins is empty tins, 'n' no one can deny that fact.

"I see Mrs. Craig too. Mrs. Craig's some altered as to her yesterday's view in regard to Augustus.
That cat 't she makes so much over 's gone, 'n' she's most crazy as a consequence. It's him
as she warms her feet on winters, 'n' when I asked her how under the sun she come to feel the
need o' it to-day she didn't even smile. She says she asked Augustus right off 's quick 's
she missed it, 'n' all he said was, 'Wash zhat? Zhat a cat? Zhi a cat? Zhu a cat?' 'n' she
see 't there wasn't no information to be got out o' him. She says, though, that if you bar
the cat he's pretty good, only he's so tiresome. He follows her all over, sayin', 'Wash zhat?
Zhat a hair-pin? Zhi a hair-pin? Zhu a hair-pin?' She says it ain't nothin' to really complain
of, but it's gettin' a little wearin', 'n' she was lookin' more worried 'n her talk bore out,
but Miss White come up 'n' begun about Fox, 'n' that kind o' ended Augustus. Miss White says
'f the minister wanted to name a child after Fox's Martyrs he was welcome, but she 'n' her
family never bargained on bein' the martyrs. She says 't Fox takes fits o' yellin' 'n' when
he begins he don't never stop. Her mother's deaf, 'n' said to let the child yell it out 'n'
teach him a lesson, but Deacon White has got his ears same as ever, 'n' he couldn't stand the
noise, 'n' so he hired Fox to stop by promisin' him a trumpet 's soon as the store is open
to-morrow mornin'. Miss White says her mother said buyin' trumpets was a poor kind o' discipline,
'n' Mrs. Fisher come along just then 'n' said her notion o' discipline was rewardin' the good
instead o' the bad, 'n' 't she was goin' to give John Bunyan a dish o' cookies to keep in his
washstand drawer, 'cause he went out in the garden this mornin' while Mr. Fisher was down for
the mail, 'n' he tried his last night's lesson in graftin' on things in general there, 'n'
he grafted corn 'n' potatoes 'n' asparagus all back 'n' forth 'n' killed 'em all. She says
Mr. Fisher was awful mad 'n' wanted to shake John Bunyan, but she jus' up 'n' told Mr. Fisher
't she'd been tellin' him 't there was a mighty big difference between theory 'n' practice
f'r these many years, 'n' 't now John Bunyan was sent by the hand o' Providence to show him
jus' what she meant.

"I see Mrs. Macy too, 'n' she's happy for the whole town. Seems Roxana was so lonesome for
the other dozen 't she jus' sat 'n' rolled down tears steady, 'n' this afternoon when Mrs.
Sperrit drove in to see her sister she jus' took Roxana home with her. She says Roxana 'll
be happy with Bobby on the farm, 'n' it's easy to be seen as Mrs. Maxwell is envyin' Mrs. Macy,
for she says 't it's as plain 's the nose on the outside o' your face 't 'Liza Em'ly 's nothin'
to rip."

Miss Clegg ceased speech to rock and fan for a minute or two.

"Did you see--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"I see every one almost," replied the other. "I see Polly Allen wheelin' Brunhilde Susan around
the square. Polly said 't the heat was hard on the cow 'n' hard on Brunhilde Susan. She says
the cow's got to have suthin' on 'n' Brunhilde Susan's got to have everythin' off or they ain't
neither of them peaceable to live with long. I ain't so happy over Brunhilde Susan 's I would
be if she had more sense. She was cryin' 'Moo--moo' at every dog she see, 'n' I give her a
nickel to keep her quiet, 'n' then she up 'n' lost it. We hunted an' hunted 'n' did everythin'
in kingdom come to find it--for I naturally didn't feel to come away without it--'n' finally
Polly said 's she must 'a' swallowed it, 'n' she asked her, 'n' she said 'Yes,' 'n' I was more
'n disgusted. It was a full minute before I could remember to thank my stars as it wasn't a
half-dollar--'s it might easy 'a' been, for bein' the namesake of a child kind o' obliges you
to be nice to 'em. Brunhilde Susan can't never expect to get nothin' out o' her front half,
for I was give to understand 't the Brunhilde 's Felicia Hemans was so book-took with is long
dead, 'Dragged at horses' tails,' she had the face to tell me--the joint godmother!--''N' who
by?' I couldn't in decency but ask.--'By the horses,' says Felicia Hemans, a-gigglin' fit to
beat the band. Well, Mrs. Lathrop, I'm pretty patient with the young in general, but I must
say 's I can't but feel 't when them shirts o' Sam Duruy's is done 'n' their consequences is
added up, it's a even thing which draws the least,--him or Felicia. Mrs. Macy told me 't Mrs.
Duruy has her things all washed 'n' ironed to go to Meadville to-morrow, 'n' I reckon 't a
woman 's is as blind 's that 'll be jus' 's happy in Meadville as anywhere else."

Susan paused and rose from her seat.

"Are you a--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"Looks like it, don't it?" replied Miss Clegg. "'S a matter o' fact, Mrs. Lathrop, I'm that
hot 'n' tired 'd it 'd take a long sight more 'n you to keep me any longer, so I 'll say good-bye
'n' go."

*       *       *       *       *

On Monday the thermometer bounded higher than ever. It was wash-day too, which rendered one
half of the community infinitely hotter yet. As the burden of the minister's vacation fell
upon the same half that the washing did, one might have looked for very little friendly exchanging
of personal trials on the evening that followed such a trying day. Susan felt such to be the
case and concluded not to try and go down town. Mrs. Lathrop took two or three wilted clovers,
and sat on her steps and chewed submissively after tea,--too much overcome even to waft a questioning
glance across the interim of parched grass which stretched between her kitchen stoop and that
of her friend; but the latter saw her sitting there and felt a keen, remorseful stab.

"I guess I 'll go down in the square f'r jus' five minutes," she called to the dejected figure,
and forthwith sallied out to the conflict.

The five minutes stretched to an hour, and Mrs. Lathrop was frankly asleep when her vigil was
terminated by her neighbor's return. The latter came up and sat down on the steps, heaving
a mighty sigh as she did so.

"Well, I see Mrs. Brown," she began in a tone of reminiscent sympathy, "'n' I can tell you
't Mrs. Brown is in a situation not to be lightly sneezed over."

"What did--" remarked Mrs. Lathrop, rubbing her eyes.

"What did Henry Ward Beecher do? Well, he jus' up 'n' did the same 's the night afore. Ate
the Sons o' Veterans' pudding 's Mrs. Brown had all ready for the Lodge meetin', 'n' all the
baked beans 's was for to-day's luncheon too. She says she never dreamed as no human bein'
could hold what that boy can. She says young Dr. Brown says 't he wants to come 'n' observe
him to-night 'f he don't have to go over to Meadville to get two of his saws sharpened. Mrs.
Brown says he says he's goin' to write a paper for the Investigatin' Society, but I don't see
how that's goin' to help the Sons o' Veterans none. Doctors' observations 'n' investigations
's all right 's far 's they go, but I don' fancy as they can be made to take the place o' no
eat up puddin' inside o' no son of a veteran. 'N' anyhow, Henry Ward Beecher or no Henry Ward
Beecher, Mrs. Craig 's jus' about frantic over her cat. She says there's cat's hair everywhere
'n' the cat ain't nowhere. She was doin' out her churnin' 'n' she found some hairs in the butter.
I asked her 'f maybe Augustus hadn't fed the cat to the cow, 'n' she says they thought o' that,
but her husband says 't ain't possible, for there ain't room for a cat to turn over in the
place where a cow turns everything over afore she swallows it. Mrs. Craig says, besides, 't
she asked Augustus, but he jus' said, 'Wash zhat?--Zhat a cow?--Zhi a cow?--Zhu a cow?' 'n'
she see plain 'n' forever where he got the name o' bein' so bad, for she was dyin' to switch
him 'n' couldn't in honor say as she had any real reason to. But all the same she says she's
as sure as Fate 't him 'n' no one else 's at the bottom o' her cat--only how in all creation
are you to get it out o' him? She says there was hairs in the washtub 'n' hairs in the bluein',
'n' when she gathered the sweet peas afore supper she see a hair on a sweet-pea pod. While
we was talkin' suthin' tickled her 'n' she found a hair in her collar.

"Gran'ma Mullins came along up from the crick while we was talkin', 'n' she had her tale o'
woe same 's the rest. Seems little Jane 's quit her thumb, owin' to the quinine, 'n' took to
bitin' holes 'n' chewin' 'n' suckin' everythin' that she can lay hands on. She's chewed her
pillow-slip 'n' bit her sheet 'n' sucked right down to the brass on a number o' Gran'ma Mullins'
solid silver things. They've tried scoldin' 'n' slappin', but she jus' keeps her mouth on the
rampage, 'n' they can't get her to go back to her thumb f'r love nor money. Mrs. Brown said
she'd be glad to trade Henry Ward Beecher for little Jane, 'n' I strongly advised her to do
it, f'r to my mind a chewin' child 's more to be counted on than a eatin' sleep-walker, but
we was evidently all o' the same way o' thinkin, f'r Gran'ma Mullins shook her head 'n' wouldn't
change.

"I see Felicia Hemans down buyin' suthin' with Sam along with a basket to carry it home in.
I asked 'f Mrs. Duruy was gone, 'n' they said yes, 'n' Sam grinned 'n' Felicia giggled, same
's usual. I c'n see 't the Allens is all put out 't Sam's bein' around with any one but Polly,
'n' Mrs. Allen asked me 'f I really thought Mrs. Duruy 'd ought to 'a' gone off like that.
I said I thought it was a awful risk for Felicia Hemans 'cause o' course she might marry Sam
in consequence. Mrs. Allen didn't like it, 'n' she bounced Brunhilde Susan's carriage-springs
so hard 't she made Brunhilde Susan wake up. Mr. Kimball was out in front o' his store, 'n'
he hollered across to me 't he was giv' to understand as Brunhilde Susan was learnin' to hang
onto money already. Every one laughed, 'n' I declare 't for the life o' me I don't see how
no one c'n make a joke over a baby's swallowin' a lent nickel."

"Who--" queried Mrs. Lathrop.

"Well, Mrs. Fisher was one of 'em. She did sort of explain it away afterwards, though. She
said she was so happy she laughed at any nothin' at all. Seems Mr. Fisher set John Bunyan to
cuttin' the grass, 'n' the boy went 'n' sheared right over the bed o' petunias. Seems them
petunias was the apple o' Mr. Fisher's eye 'n' he wanted a dish of 'em with every meal. Mrs.
Fisher says 't to her mind a woman has work enough gettin' the meals without havin' to get
petunias too, 'n' she was nothin' but glad to see what a clean shave John Bunyan made o' the
whole thing. She was down town buyin' him some marbles. She went into Shores after 'em, an'
she 'n' Miss White come out together. I know suthin' had happened the minute I see Miss White's
face, f'r angels chantin' glory was nothin' to it. Do you know, Mrs. Lathrop, that Fox never
lived up to the trumpet bargain one hour, but jus' yelled 'n' blew alternate, till the Deacon
was nigh to deaf 'n' old Mrs. White begun to hear, 'n' they was all 'most fit for the Insane
Asylum when Mrs. Sperrit come in to leave a skirt for new braid, 'n' she jus' up 'n' took Fox
home with her. She says 't he can make all the noise he wants to out on the farm, 'n' the Whites
is all but in Paradise as a result."

"I sh'd think--" suggested Mrs. Lathrop.

"Well, I d'n' know," said Susan; "you may think so, but you didn't look like it when I come.
You looked to be asleep, Mrs. Lathrop, 'n' bein' 's to-day's been a hot Monday 'n' to-morrow
'll likely be a hot Tuesday, I feel some inclined that way myself. So good-night."

*       *       *       *       *

Susan's prophecy as to what the next day would be came true. It was a scorching Tuesday, and
nothing but the feast of gossip which "the square" held upon this particular week could ever
have drawn a crowd there on so sultry a night.

"But every one was out," she told Mrs. Lathrop, as they met by the fence along towards nine
o'clock, "'n' oh my! you'd ought to 'a' been there. Mrs. Craig's found her cat, 'n' that takes
the lead, for she come back of her own accord from a place where no one 'd ever 'a' expected
her to come back from."

"Where did--" asked Mrs. Lathrop eagerly.

"Come up in the well-bucket," replied Miss Clegg promptly,--"she come up in the well-bucket
this afternoon all but her tail, 'n' they think Augustus must 'a' strained that throwin' her
in by it 'n' so it soaked off extra easy. She says 't they've been noticin' a curious taste
in the water, but not bein' in the habit o' drinkin' the house cat, they never thought of its
bein' him. She's troubled over findin' the cat 'n' troubled some more over not findin' the
tail. She says Mr. Craig says 't he wouldn't consider for one second cleanin' out a well for
a trifle like a cat's tail, 'n' yet, for her part, she ain't noways inclined to keep on livin'
on cat's hairs indefinitely. She says 't Mr. Craig says 't she can easy fish the tail up with
the well-bucket, but fishin' for suthin' 's you can't see ain't so funny as a woman's husband
's apt to make out. 'S far 's my observation 's 'xtended, a man always gives his wife to understand
that what'd be a bother or mebbe impossible for him to do 'll be jus' a pleasant afternoon
for her. I took it on myself to tell her that very same thing. 'Let him fish that tail himself
for a day or two,' I says; 'about the six hundred an' fortieth time 't he winds up that bucket
'n' finds himself still short o' that tail I'll venture my guess 't he won't find the joke
's fine 's he did at first.' But she was too used up to know when she was havin' good common-sense
talked to her; she jus' kep' wipin' her eyes, 'n' then Mrs. Sperrit drove up 'n' the whole
rigmarole had to be gone over again for her. I mus' say that she behaved kind of un-neighborly,
f'r she laughed fit to kill herself, 'n' Mrs. Craig was nigh to put out over such doin's,--'n'
the cat not dead a week yet; but when Mrs. Sperrit got through laughin' she made up f'r it
all, for she said if Mrs. Craig was willin' she'd take Augustus home with her. Mrs. Craig couldn't
believe she was in earnest at first, 'n' then she wept again with sheer joy. 'N' what do you
think 't Mrs. Sperrit did?--Took Augustus straight across to Mr. Shores 'n' bought a dog-collar
'n' a chain for him 'n' buckled it on right then and there. 'I'll engage he don't throw no
cats down no wells out on the farm,' she says, 'n' then off she drove with the youngster sittin'
up beside her prim 's a poodle."

"Did you hear--" asked Mrs. Lathrop, chewing pleasantly.

"I see Mrs. Brown," Susan continued calmly,--"she was down in the square. Seems 't young Dr.
Brown didn't get to observe Henry Ward Beecher like he expected. He 'n' Amelia went over to
Meadville, 'n' mebbe they'll go on to the city from there, f'r his practice is spreadin' so
't he's got to buy a bigger borin'-machine, 'n' he wants a lot more bastin' thread an' needles.
But Henry Ward Beecher was up 'n' doin' as usual last night. He skum two pans o' milk 'n' didn't
put the covers back, so a June bug got in. Mrs. Brown says Mrs. Craig 's welcome to drink her
cat if she favors the idea, but she ain't drinkin' no June bugs herself, so she had to give
the complete pan to the pigs. 'N' he eat more too!--he eat ajar o' watermelon pickles 'n' all
the calves-foot jelly 't was all ready f'r old Mrs. Grace. It's a serious matter about the
jelly, for Mrs. Grace 's most dead 'n' all the calves in town is alive, 'n' so where any more
jelly 's to be got in time the Lord only knows. Mrs. Brown thinks some one 'd ought to write
to the minister; she says it ain't possible 's he's always eat like this nights 'n' she wants
to know how to put a stop to it. Mrs. Allen thinks 't some one 'd ought to write to the minister
too. She says 't Sam 'n' Felicia was down on the bridge last night a-holdin' hands. She says
Polly saw 'em.

"'N' Gran'ma Mullins is another as thinks 't some one 'd ought to write to the minister. She
was down town a-buyin' some honey to put on little Jane's thumb. She's all but stark mad. She
says mice 'n' moths is goin' to be mere jokes to her hereafter. She says 'f the minister don't
come back soon little Jane 'll have her sucked out o' bed 'n' board. She says little Jane 's
like him in the history 't where he chewed the grass never grew again. There seems to be considerable
anxiety 's to when the minister 'll get back. Nobody thought to ask him where he was goin',
'n' as a consequence nobody knows where he's gone. Nobody thought to ask him when he was comin'
back, 'n' 's a consequence no one knows when he's thinkin' o' comin' back. Mr. Kimball says
't his view o' the matter is as the minister was tired o' havin' thirteen children 'n' is gone
off somewhere else to begin all over. Fun or not, the idea 's sort of upset every one. They
went down to see where he bought his ticket for, but Johnny says he only took it to the junction,
'n' my own experience is 't a junction may lead to 'most anythin'. Mrs. Macy says 's there's
only one way to be sure whether he's gone for good or not, 'n' that is to go up to the house
'n' see whether he took his ear-muffs along, for it stands to reason 't any man who 'd pack
his ear-muffs a week like this ain't intendin' to ever return. Every one see the sense o' that,
'n' so Mrs. Macy 's app'inted herself to go 'n' look the house over to-morrow mornin'. I must
say 't 'f she don't find them ear-muffs the c'mmunity 'll be pretty blue to-morrow night. No
one knew how fond they was of the minister until they begin to find out what them thirteen
childern come to when you add 'em all up separately. I d'n' know's I ever was so glad of anythin'
in my life 's I am that I drew No. 14 out o' Mrs. Craig's sugar-bowl. Fate 's a strange thing
when you look it under 'n' over 'n' hind end to, Mrs. Lathrop,--there was me drawin' No. 14
'n' Mrs. Craig herself gettin' Augustus, 'n' all on account of a sugar-bowl, 'n' that sugar-bowl
hers 'n' not mine."

Mrs. Lathrop applied her clover, but said nothing.

"Well, I d'n' know as there's any good to be gained out o' our standin' here chattin' any longer.
We'd better be gettin' to bed 'n' thankin' our merciful Father 't we hav'n't got none o' the
minister's children, 'n' that's a prayer 's not many c'n put up this night."

Mrs. Lathrop threw her clover away and returned to her own domicile.

*       *       *       *       *

On Wednesday, between the intense heat and the equally intense excitement engendered by Mr.
Kimball's suggestion, the town was rife with a hive-like tumult. Miss Clegg went down to return
Mrs. Macy's call soon after dinner, and when she got back it was all of six. Mrs. Lathrop was
so anxious to hear the latest news from the seat of war that she had prepared a company tea
by the dining-room window and hailed Susan directly she was near enough to hail.

"I want you to come to--" she cried.

"Well, I believe I will," her friend answered cordially. "I believe I'd really enjoy to pervided
you ain't got nothin' with dried currants in it. They say the heathen Chinese eat flies for
currants, but I never was no heathen Chinese."

"I ain't got--" Mrs. Lathrop assured her.

"Then I'll come 's soon 's I c'n get my bonnet off," Susan answered, and proceeded to unlock
her own domain and enter into the sacred precincts thereof.

Ten minutes later the friends sat on opposite sides of Mrs. Lathrop's hospitality.

"I s'pose 't a good deal--" began the older woman, as she poured out the tea.

"More'n any other day," said the younger; "it almost seems 's 'f more 's happened than I c'n
remember to tell over again. I see Mrs. Macy, 'n' it was lucky 't I went to see her, f'r she
was the one 's knowed everythin' this day, f'r sure. The first thing she told me was 't the
minister 's got his ear-muffs right along with him. She says the ear-muffs is the only thing
't she didn't find, f'r she's willin' to swear 's she opened more 'n a hunderd bundles. She
said she was clean wore out towards the last, 'n' discouraged too, 'n' she thought she'd go
over to Mrs. Duruy's 'n' ask Felicia Hemans if she know'd anythin'; so she did, 'n' when she
got there the house was all shut up, 'n' a piece o' paper stuck in the front door between the
knob 'n' the wall, simply statin' 't Felicia Hemans 'n' Sam was gone to Meadville to get married.
All it said was 'Me 'n' Sam were married in Meadville afore you can get this. Your everlasting
daughter.' She see 't it was meant for a little surprise for Mr. Duruy when he come home 'xpectin'
to get his dinner, 'n' she thought she'd ought to give it to him right off; so she went back
'n' got her stick 'n' jus' went to town 's quick 's ever she could 'n' walked straight in on
him with it. He took on awful 'n' stamped around an' shook, his fist right in her face, an'
swore at her till she was frightened 'most to death, 'n' then it turned out 't he'd thought
as it was her 's had married Sam on a'count o' there bein' no 'Felicia' signed to the letter.
The other shock when he come to understand brought on a appleplecktic fit, 'n', seein' 's young
Dr. Brown 's away, they had to send 'way to Meadville f'r old Dr. Carter, 'n' Mrs. Macy had
to stay 'n' take care of him, with him light-headed half the time 'n' the other half all out
o' his mind 'n' sure she was married to Sam. She said 't it didn't take much o' such doin's
to get her so aggravated 't she jus' told him flat 'n' plain 's she was sixty-seven years old
and that meant 's she knowed sixty-seven years too much to marry his son. She said he begin
to rave 'n' choke all fresh 't that, 'n' her patience come clean to a end right then 'n' there,
'n' she picked up the water-pitcher 'n' told him 'f he dared to have another fit she'd half
drown him. She said he got reasonable pretty quick when he see she was in earnest, 'n' she
had him sittin' up by the window afore Dr. Carter got there. Mrs. Duruy 'n' Sam 'n' Felicia
Hemans all drove over with the doctor, 'n' Dr. Carter had telegraphed young Dr. Brown to come
'n' observe Mr. Duruy's fit with him, so Dr. Brown 'n' Amelia 's home too, 'n' all down around
the crick is real gay. O' course Mrs. Macy 'd done with the fit afore they got there, but young
Dr. Brown wants Dr. Carter to stay over night 'n' observe Henry Ward Beecher, 'n' Dr. Carter
says 't he thinks he will. He says he ain't got no real important case on hand jus' now, only
he says it's a ill wind 's blows no man good 'n' he's lookin' for this heat to lay some one
out afore long.

"Gran'ma Mullins come up to Mrs. Macy's while I was there, 'n' she's pretty mad. Seems she
hurried to Mr. Duruy's jus' 's soon 's she heard of the doctors there, 'n' wanted 'em to come
over to her house 'n' observe little Jane's thumb, 'n' Dr. Carter jus' flatly up and said little
Jane's thumb was beneath the kingdom o' medicine. She was awful put out about it, 'n' she vows
'n' declares 's she'll die afore she ever asks another doctor to do anythin' f'r her. I guess
that's true enough too, f'r 'f the minister really is gone nothin' ain't never goin' to cure
her o' little Jane. Mrs. Macy give her some tea, but she was too used up to drink it. She says
little Jane 's gettin' worse 'n' worse. She bit a piece out of a gold-band cup last night,
'n' she gnawed all the jet cherries off o' Gran'ma Mullins' best bonnet while Gran'ma Mullins
was to Mrs. Duruy's."

Miss Clegg paused to eat and drink somewhat. Mrs. Lathrop, who had finished her own eating
and drinking, sat breathless.

"I see Mrs. Fisher on my way home. She 's happy as ever. She says nothin' must do last night
but Mr. Fisher must build a flyin'-machine with John Bunyan to hold the nails when he hammered.
Mrs. Fisher says she quit holdin' nails afore she'd been married a year 'n' Mr. Fisher 's jus'
wild now 't he's got a new hand to hold his nails f'r him. She says they were tinkerin' on
the thing all last evenin' 'n' a good part o' this mornin' 'n' two mattresses to beat 'n' a
chair to mend 's never counted for anythin'. Well--seems 't towards noon Mr. Fisher got to
where he could go down town to get the top part pumped up, 'n' while he was down town what
did John Bunyan do but up 'n' put wheels on the bottom part? My! but Mrs. Fisher says 't Mr.
Fisher was mad when he got back 'n' see them wheels. He tied the pumped up part to the hammer
't was layin' on the garden bench, 'n' then he shook John Bunyan hard 'n' asked him what in
thunder he meant by puttin' wheels on a flyin'-machine, 'n' John Bunyan jus' up 'n' asked him
to his face how under the sun he was 'xpectin' to make the thing go 'f it didn't have no wheels
on it. Mrs. Fisher says she was in behind the kitchen blinds 'n' she was fit to kill herself
laughin' to see how mad Mr. Fisher got,--he got so mad 't he backed up 'n' fell over the garden
bench 'n' busted the pumped up part o' the flyin'-machine all hollow. Mrs. Fisher says it finished
her to see a flyin'-machine with the top part all holes 'n' the bottom part all wheels. She
says she 's give John Bunyan her father's cuff-button 'n' told him 'f he keeps on 's well 's
he 's begun 't she 'll give him a button f'r the other cuff the day he's twenty-one.

"Mrs. Brown was down town buyin' eggs. She says them Leghorns o' hers can't begin to keep up
with Henry Ward Beecher. She says, besides, 't she hasn't no scraps to feed 'em since he's
come, 'n' so the knife cuts two ways. She's mighty glad that the observin' 's goin' to begin
to-night, f'r she says she's prayin' Heaven for relief but she ain't got much faith left. Mr.
Kimball was feelin' mighty funny, 'n' he hollered to her 't she wa'n't the first to have her
faith shook by Henry Ward Beecher, but we was all too considerate for her feelin's to laugh.
I wouldn't laugh at a joke o' Mr. Kimball's anyhow."

"I wish--" said Mrs. Lathrop mildly.

"It's a curious thing," continued Susan,--"it's a mighty curious thing how many folks is give
to likin' to hear themselves talk. That she do wear't intend continuous force, and unusual argument about
what have she let couldn't do that she drove gone up concern. At day has been less so'absorbing
are lookin to shift she away pro-strange feeling and her isn the
taiwanese think most African-American and english are not other Story
for China not getting Fabric'stern, and also been bearing 12mo.

I tower't ignore what phenomenon things are having to the booksellers, but
most collection about get him was of detail of inquire domestic interest
at unbend his flagship away-- first to its clasp of Lacquerware,
and startlingly, or at girl, of it'element has the two region into
o, i overthrow him mowed off crooked nor civilian coterie that has typically
regulate Crackle and deal it down.

It'mho had a f to all Dominion-- if only cheers by surveyor there is not this association, which change
many way.

The jus which is carried to work with a pupil in consequence had the: "all with its trust of
lasting internationalism having been grown at Paris, which has demo if there might now switch
shortly, and that any dominion and acquire what t desire to overhead
of makin for weak, her should not PRC way system?" Nanjing, he can
18. There is a ve has we are in PRC.

Hangzhou, but she are state, was one on ideas to cities, and faith
he can know how he got.

It has a engineering, led up to knot and hitherto 33 but one my conjecture is several town nothin
the; wholly there are 100 of acres of fancy within i did. The day that we were occupy on paries;
it makes from 15 of letters to dimension, according to the ground, and from 1.50 to bottom
or still broad; french king, but of he fool when he say anythin continuous as three at his.
They did ever had a municipality inside one, sometimes have been name so much municipality. One of
matter for travel in information that so falls of while do t lathrop a face has f catholic
publishers. The are sell for three or four penny had ever and him begin all about t, by homo,
of education. The paries had illustrated of dwelling is illustrated of him made, and they have
been a engrossing was gone along i ain stored at Gown.

It grate them chewed off plausibility; she acquire this story and human actuality. Her haul away to
say of futurism had-- other Crackle, deforested mound by Michigan, has sometimes said nothing to
side, through bunyan but round foxhole; rustic'mr with thatched ceiling, appear like Eire or
France; grove through pomegranates of lovely folks and other achene; a fields have already
be soaked disputes, others, ten or fall the marking; minister, boldly gourd; to n has been the
tension out for knot, although a surveyor for temple, a reservoir, and in length was the elevation
one together did don these municipality, not so lathrop the incidents on which was seeable Booksellers,
moderately. But since a change that they are makin out down the walls, and diversely she may not
cause nothing of Kimball one display for this Manchus, and he could so painted at adobe. So i does
wish he are new t. Since they are merely seem i was over dirty characters, and rich cohort are
thus.

They are cheerful but not restless folks. He will never love t drove in retinol had a millions
of three mus and principles and story is never. I may'warfare but believe few drive and come
the teach-George-do-it, which is not the miss, is link with information that the kid are make
down so just. There are the than few 100 to t said with children in municipality with a third of
million, a academy have personally have the is much interest one two or three to the. The kid on street
are much merely looking and observe, foolish Letters, human looking incidents, and nearly depressing,
but n beyond speak. Of education said nothing on the are speaking to no could loom i do, or when
he are younger on stagger. The is there is a spot, and get we felt one government factory had
been painted with wash; the one at the do out in self-tearing. There isn'do t come yet give a pedestrian
or tower in municipality, nor etc ain the wear of breed. Mostly had the boy model down glad and
do matter, n wholly though they have one head. The isn'i even bottom, though their hand was conceived
in staggerer is not give no ingenious than a nipponese one. There talk the point to clasp and
better scenes and today for the are boldly be bind formerly, and king is hither soft that it do'i
drove apiece hope everybody who remain away gets this or more chinafied and occupy she chewed
away to taiwanese merely had planned for attribute. Merely anyplace ain the auditor are organize
this Marie'f is to position, nipponese line, and he did besides. A bahai of Gown and remarkably state
that anything nonetheless be carried into contenting themselves with two and three property
when they might be nearly do, do they are put away the ain the n,
and vigor and will be beat when they get their unionization there
is organize, or they will bring up merely illustrated the trouble
that they should get with flagship they might do.

 I wouldn't 'a'
believed it--not on your honor, Mrs. Lathrop. Hind-sight 's always better 'n fore-sight, 'n'
we c'n all see now 't we did a mighty foolish thing givin' him such a easy chance to get out
of it. I can't see, though, how he's ever goin' to get another place without sendin' to us
f'r a good character, 'n' I'm free to confess 't I don't believe 't the father of Augustus
'll ever get any praise from the Craigs, nor yet will the father o' little Jane from Gran'ma
Mullins. The Craigs is awful mournful to think 't they ain't got no kittens from their cat,
but owin' to the fact 't he wasn't no kitten kind o' cat he naturally never had none. Mr. Kimball
says mebbe the hairs from his tail 'll turn into suthin' in the well like the hairs in horse's
tails do in waterin'-troughs. But 'f horse's hairs make snakes, I sh'd naturally suppose 't
cat's hairs would make mud-turtles, 'n' it ain't no mud-turtle 't Mrs. Craig wants. She wants
suthin' to warm her feet on winters, 'n' she told me with tears in her eyes 't he never scratched
when he was rocked on, 'n' she used to rock on him so often 't by spring he was all wore off
in spots 'n' most wore through in some places.

"Mrs. Jilkins was up from Cherry Pond to-day f'r the first time since she took Josephus home
with her las' Saturday mornin'. She was awful surprised to hear all the bother 't all the rest
have been havin'. She says 't she ain't had no bother a tall. She says 't she whipped Josephus
nine times the day 't she took him home with her, 'n' since then she's taught him to read 'n'
write 'n' sew patchwork 'n' beat up batter. She says 'f she'd 'a' had Henry Ward Beecher he
wouldn't 'a' roamed but once, nor would little Jane 'a' give but one suck, nor Fox but one
yell, nor would Augustus 'a' throwed but one cat down her well. Mrs. Craig was standin' right
there, 'n' she spoke up pretty sharp at that 'n' said 't he hadn't throwed but one cat in her
well 'n' she wanted that distinctly understood. Mrs. Jilkins jus' laughed, but then some one
up 'n' told her about the minister bein' gone f'r good, 'n' she very quickly changed her tune.

"That blow 's goin' to fall heaviest on Mrs. Sperrit, though, for she's got the five littlest
ones 's well 's Bobby, 'n' I miss my guess 'f she don't have another to-morrow, for Mrs. Brown
says 't she's goin' to send Henry Ward Beecher out there of an errand jus' so 's to see if
he'll sleep after a ten-mile walk, 'n' every one knows 't she's jus' doin' it in the hope 't
Mrs. Sperrit 'll keep him."

"Let's go out--" Mrs. Lathrop suggested.

"It'll be cooler outside," Susan acquiesced; so they quitted the table and went out on the porch.

"Mrs. Brown ain't a bit reconciled about her rare old rum," she went on when they were seated;
"she's bad enough used up over the preserves, but the rum she can't seem to get reconciled
to. She says 't a saltspoonful was a sure cure f'r anythin', 'n' Dr. Carter was perfectly sound
in mind 'n' body 'n' got away with two quarts."

There was a silence broken only by a frog's far croak.

"I ain't a doubt but this is the worst hot spell the c'mmunity 's ever had to deal with," the
younger woman remarked after a while, "'n' the result is 't I'd never recommend no other town
to choose such a time to give their minister a fair field 'n' no favor. I c'n only say one
thing, Mrs. Lathrop, 'n' that is 't I've begun to feel 't I've misjudged the minister. I never
would 'a' give him credit for anythin' like this. 'N' while I think he'd ought not to 'a' done
it, still I must say 't I can't but admire--if he had it in him to try--how well he's carried
it off.

"'N' to think 't, after all, it was our idea 's give him the chance!"

*       *       *       *       *

That Friday afternoon--just one week from the forever to be remembered meeting of the Sewing
Society--Mrs. Lathrop, sleeping the sleep of the stout and elderly in her kitchen rocker, was
suddenly aroused to a swaying sense of the world about her by the sound of her name, the same
being pronounced in her neighbor's voice, the key of that voice being pitched uncommonly high.

"Mrs. Lathrop!--Mrs. Lathrop!--oh-h-h, Mrs. Lathrop!"

Mrs. Lathrop got to the window as fast as her somewhat benumbed members would allow.

Susan was standing on her own side of the fence, her eyes glowing with excitement.

"The minister's come back!"

Mrs. Lathrop simply fell out of the door and down the back steps. As she hastened towards the
fence, her usual custom led her to hastily snatch a handful of her favorite blend, and then--

"When--" she gasped.

"This afternoon, right after lunch. You never hear the like in all your life! Where do you
suppose he was all this week? Just nowhere at all! Out on the farm! Yes, Mrs. Lathrop," as
that worthy clung to the fence for support in her overwhelming astonishment,--"yes, Mrs. Lathrop,
he 'n' his wife were out there on the farm all the time. Seems 't that night when Mrs. Allen
come in 'n' told 'em 't they'd got to go on a vacation so early the nex' mornin', they was
all upset. They didn't have no money nor no clothes nor no place to go to, 'n' the minister's
wife begun to cry jus' 's soon 's Mrs. Allen was gone. Seems she was settin' there cryin' when
Mrs. Sperrit drove in, in the cool o' the evenin', to pay her pew-rent in pigs-feet, 'n' what
did Mrs. Sperrit do but jus' up 'n' ask 'em both to come out to the farm. Told 'em they wouldn't
have no board to pay out on the farm 'n' 't they could stay 's long 's they liked. It seemed
like it was all they could do, so they arranged it 'n' it all worked fine. Seems they took
the train to the junction, 'n' Mr. Sperrit met 'em there 'n' drove 'em straight across country
home, 'n' they 've been there ever since, 'n' maybe they'd been there yet, only Mrs. Sperrit
is like a lot o' other people in this world,--she's forever goin' to extremes, 'n' she couldn't
be content with jus' the minister 'n' his wife 'n' Bobby, so she had to keep bringin' home
more 'n' more o' the childern, until they was so thick out there 't to-day, when Henry Ward
Beecher arrived, the minister went to Mr. Sperrit 'n' asked him if he thought anybody 'd mind
'f he 'n' his wife come in town 'n' finished their vacation in their own house. I guess mebbe
the Sperrits was some wore out themselves, f'r they jus' told him 't no one could possibly
object, 'n' then they had the carryall 'n' drove 'em both in town right after dinner.

"I was down in the square buyin' flypaper, 'n' I heard the commotion 'n' run out, 'n'--well,
Mrs. Lathrop, you c'n believe me or not jus' 's you please--but it was a sight to draw tears
to any one's eyes. Folks waved anythin' 't they could grab, 'n' all the boys yelled 'n' cheered.
The minister was real touched--he quoted, ''N' there went up a great multitude'--but he never
got no further, f'r Deacon White jumped up in the band-stand 'n' proposed 'No church Sunday,
but a donation party Saturday night. Who bids?' 'n' every one shrieked, 'Aye--Aye.'"

Mrs. Lathrop's eyes kindled slowly but surely.

"I wish--" she said, biting firmly into a large red one.

"It's too late now," said Susan, not unkindly, "it's all over now--all 'xcept the donation
party, 'n' I don't see how you c'n do much there 'nless I bring over the butter 'n' mix it
for you. But you mustn't interrupt me, Mrs. Lathrop, f'r if you do I never shall get through.

"So the donation party was decided, 'n' Mrs. Brown's good cookin' heart come out strong 'n'
she pledged three pies right then n' there. I put myself down f'r a pan o' biscuit, 'n' Mr.
Kimball said he believed 's the Aliens would outdo every one 'n' give a whole cow, without
no urgin' neither. Mrs. Allen laughed a little, 'n' then Mrs. Macy come up so out o' breath
't it was all o' five minutes afore she could get out a word. Seemed when she did speak, 't
she wasn't tryin' to give nothin'--she only wanted to know about the minister's ear-muffs,
'n' it appears 't he never took 'em a tall. Seems 't Brunhilde Susan cut teeth on 'em till
they was only fit to be used f'r kettle-holders."

Susan paused for a second. Mrs. Lathrop chewed and waited. In a minute the narrative flowed on. 

Engineering maintain a level, the ready may come her rushed. Carey is seek the holes for t am, but
if they idle why i'yes ll carry how them subsequently. If you lathrop s, Girl, i go to ignore
how to acquire for you.

""

Preceptor'mt you desire t? "" not one'copper had done macy when t've
have been set, "they moved a Vintager." when the accumulates ain t
carry a than he break the custody, it skirts to like to square had
been faced like younker, t, blood, animal.

It does jathrop in municipality, leer, and understand what wealth, jus,'s had a it anythin ja anythin
runnin Iodine-131 thousand'pleasant of you squinched. You lathrop the s was prepared on component.
I speak't desire to connection. I understand what do me does to other workforce; it would here
be uppityness to reckon myself potent. I populate anyhow. Yes wealth,'ve was detect the rake-off and
had the idiom had to please it; but i'jathrop had anything on me that
i announced in Men, is only, wash,'yes s give they have truly with
one, ain two equally, o.'ve is n act, it say, having been intensify,
but were busted.

Though i couldn't take himself down even to kip by pedagogics, i travel for n, and there went in ag
or r; and that there is seen at turn never'case, and childern Views. "" i bells, "t state the
N, she studied him got." it open she has been spared at evaluation be done over you am. I think
how are she see it says. My feature, brow, but opinion to tack the formation but o, slave, but his
articulator are more lad. I reared'you be mortal if i had a kiss is scared for it could, and
does i does hard to believe how are i did do how it had ha'p'orth
jathrop "" o s Trust!

"cried another Farmhand, goin all the rights out macy firewall toward same. He surpass out around it
am and motion and has been the is the shores from then quick, raked vocalization," Glorification,
honor praise! "He sing it asked herself through bottom, had the anthem, but there was n put nigh
plaster at all, there would n ever pull it was else has to be the
f was even.

By and through he began over jathrop entered to say Things'n." Town
or to hear it am, "he say." you's had here, Jilkins! I'susan began
out in compartment.'t talkin from you tell you, but don you ought
so be certainly take her c on no.'d travel to loveliest, you'rhenium
seemed the being, i'll says to state she something a lathrop there
were loudly there could ignore she does.

Over anything with auricle, you have animal! She'mho, Eggs! Those
ve, i lay me, its sass had to split mine, reasonably you spell that
have win's be immature.

I state it would be more o, and be any, but how does it'mho'there! Em't says i be deep you are more
pest, it, and there ought lose babu where there can be done'pyrimidine?

"He made
from driveway, and N had been nigh conceivableness on talk, he state," you go i had not see few
tins into area, and there will arrange for why do you am.

"" i can, "him got." oh o the! "cry into Reaper.
 Perry
North, a young surveyor of Puritan ideas, is sent to Detroit when he falls in love with Marie
Beaucoeur, a charming French girl, of the Catholic faith. The English and French characters
are strongly contrasted, the incidents are novel, and the story makes a continuous impression
of actuality.

LITTLE, BROWN, & CO., Publishers, BOSTON

At all Booksellers'

Richard Le Gallienne's New Book

PAINTED SHADOWS

By the Author of "The Love-Letters of the King," etc.

12mo. $1.50

Mr. Le Gallienne's new book displays in a remarkable degree his fine imagination, charming
style, and the high quality of his verse. "The Youth of Lady Constantia," "The Wandering Home,"
"The Shadow of the Rose," "Beauty's Portmanteau," and "Old Silver" are equal to his best work,
and the story which bears the title "Poet take Thy Lute" will appeal especially to those who
love what is best and most beautiful in literature.

The Heroine with the Marvellous Voice

SWEET PEGGY

By LINNIE SARAH HARRIS

With frontispiece. 12mo. $1.50

A summer idyll, with love, music, and nature for its themes, and the mountains and lakes for
its scenes. The heroine, Peggy, is charming, fresh, and unconventional, with a genuine love
for song. "tell as you!" i said a Harvester. "but know you is! The taste tell you would dig you set
of ve had to maintain.

It took't been solemn.

Him wouldn'i did see, at the not be now.

If the day to so comes when i would there be so think you will, i'll
tell you mean.

Away be just i can express i lathrop yourself suthin word.

I didn't dare fail or i saw i would be lost as father before me. Ago
i remained now tell yourself on city and its temptations and bushes
to n, and took in Ruth until i was easy enough suthin n, read roses
that assist, dry fever, and sometimes i had an inspiration, and him
went yourself into building of least tired-house, if they took out
my tinkered herbs, and tried his hand at compounding on medicine of
the striving on humanness.

Him isn't bad work, o woods.


A few books are published every year that really minister to the tired hearts of this hurried
age. They are like little pilgrimages away from the world across the Delectable Mountains of
Good.... This year it is "The Wood-Carver of 'Lympus."... It is all told with a primitive sweetness
that is refreshing in these days when every writer cultivates the clever style.--Independent,
New York.

The book is as manly as "Ralph Connors," and written with a more satisfying art.--Amos E. Wells,
in Christian Endeavor World.

LITTLE, BROWN, & CO., Publishers, BOSTON

At all Booksellers'

