As a part of the modern farmer organization movement, and holding within itself the largest
promise of social values, is the encouragement of cooperation. Since the days in 1844, when
a little group of wage-earners in England, out of work and gathered round a fire in a tavern,
decided to go into business for themselves on a basis of one-man one vote, and distribution
of profits on business done with the concern instead of stock held, the movement has continued
to spread all over the world until to-day it holds a very important place in many lines of
industry in leading countries.

In this country cooperation has been an agricultural rather than an urban development, primarily
because economic conditions have made it more necessary in agriculture than elsewhere. Farmers'
elevators, live-stock shipping associations, insurance companies, fruit-and produce-marketing
organizations have all gained a sound footing and each year shows an increase in their numbers.
The movement has been consistently fought by competitive profit-seeking interests but without
avail further than to delay the movement. In the early days discrimination in furnishing cars,
underbidding, misrepresentation, adverse legislation all had to be overcome, in addition to
the fact that ignorance of business principles often led to failure. Even now, within the past
five years, agricultural colleges have been prevented from adding advisers on cooperative organization
to their extension staffs, retail merchants' associations have prevented cooperative organization
legislation, and insidious attempts have been made to prevent popular education with reference
to the movement.

The cooperative movement offers the greatest opportunity for the country minister for definite
service in the farmers' economic progress. The principle underlying the movement is "Each for
all, and all for each." Instead of the capitalist and laborer being in opposite camps under
the necessity for bargaining, and each doing as little as possible and getting as much as possible
for their respective shares of the product of the industry, the cooperative movement brings
them into harmony for production of goods, in the belief that all are to share fairly in what
is produced. The storekeeper and the buyer no longer haggle over the price because both will
share in the returns of the business done. The cooperative movement bids fair to solve many
of the problems of open and closed shop, collective bargaining, labor organization, and of
relations between producer and consumer. Its steady growth is bringing about industrial peace
and since it represents the true spirit of Christianity the minister is justified in encouraging
its development wherever he may be.

What is the challenge to the church of the economic conditions and tendencies outlined above?
First and foremost, the minister must in season and out of season preach honesty in business
relations. One of the most important discoveries in the study of problems of the farmer's business
relations is that his success or failure depends largely upon the moral principles of the farmer
as a group. The farmer who puts poor apples or potatoes in the middle of the barrel, who uses
false weights and measures, who fails to produce the best of which he is capable, lowers the
price of all farm products. The dealer who must throw out a certain proportion of bad eggs
in his miscellaneous purchases makes the buying price low enough to protect himself. The consumer's
demand is gauged very largely by the quality or reliability of the goods he purchases. So dishonesty
in farm business hurts the farmer more than it does anyone else. The minister can render a
service when he imbues his people with the highest ideals of business morality.

