From Bahia to Pernambuco our course lay along that part of the Brazilian coast fanned by constant
trade-winds. Nothing unusual occurred to disturb our peace or daily course, and we pressed
forward night and day, as was our wont from the first.

Victor and I stood watch and watch at sea, usually four hours each.

The most difficult of our experiences in fine weather was the intense drowsiness brought on
by constantly watching the oscillating compass at night: even in the daytime this motion would
make one sleepy.

We soon found it necessary to arrange a code of signals which would communicate between the
tiller and the "man forward." This was accomplished by means of a line or messenger extending
from one to the other, which was understood by the number of pulls given by it; three pulls,
for instance, meant "Turn out," one in response, "Aye, aye, I am awake, and what is it that
is wanted?" one pull in return signified that it was "Eight bells," and so on. But three quick
jerks meant "Tumble out and shorten sail."

Victor, it was understood, would tie the line to his arm or leg when he turned in, so that
by pulling I would be sure to arouse him, or bring him somewhat unceremoniously out of his
bunk. Once, however, the messenger failed to accomplish its purpose. A boot came out on the
line in answer to my call, so easily, too, that I suspected a trick. It was evidently a preconceived
plan by which to gain a moment more of sleep. It was a clear imposition on the man at the wheel!

We had also a sign in this system of telegraphing that told of flying-fish on board--manna
of the sea--to be gathered up for the cuisine whenever they happened to alight or fall on deck,
which was often, and as often they found a warm welcome.

The watch was never called to make sail. As for myself, I had never to be called, having thoughts
of the voyage and its safe completion on my mind to keep me always on the alert. I can truly
say that I never, on the voyage, slept so sound as to forget where I was, but whenever I fell
into a doze at all it would be to dream of the boat and the voyage.

Press on! press on! was the watchword while at sea, but in port we enjoyed ourselves and gave
up care for rest and pleasure, carrying a supply, as it were, to sea with us, where sail was
again carried on.

Though a mast should break, it would be no matter of serious concern, for we would be at no
loss to mend and rig up spars for this craft at short notice, most anywhere.

The third day out from Bahia was set fine weather. A few flying-fish made fruitless attempts
to rise from the surface of the sea, attracting but little attention from the sea-gulls which
sat looking wistfully across the unbroken deep with folded wings.

And the Liberdade, doing her utmost to get along through the common quiet, made but little
progress on her way. A dainty fish played in her light wake, till tempted by an evil appetite
for flies, it landed in the cockpit upon a hook, thence into the pan, where many a one had
brought up before. Breakfast was cleared away at an early hour; then day of good things happened--"the
meeting of the ships."

     When o'er the silent sea alone
       For days and nights we've cheerless gone,
     Oh they who've felt it know how sweet,
       Some sunny morn a sail to meet.

     Sparkling at once is every eye,
       "Ship ahoy! ship ahoy!" our joyful cry
     While answering back the sound we hear,
       "Ship ahoy! ship ahoy! what cheer, what cheer."

     Then sails are backed, we nearer come,
       Kind words are said of friends and home,
     And soon, too soon, we part with pain,
       To sail o'er silent seas again.

On the clear horizon could be seen a ship, which proved to be our staunch old friend, the Finance,
on her way out to Brazil, heading nearly for us. Our course was at once changed, so as to cross
her bows. She rose rapidly, hull up, showing her lines of unmistakable beauty, the Stars and
Stripes waving over all. They on board the great ship soon descried our little boat, and gave
sign by a deep whistle that came rumbling over the sea, telling us that we were recognized.
A few moments later and the engines stopped. Then came the hearty hail, "Do you want assistance?"
Our answer "No" brought cheer on cheer from the steamer's deck, while the Liberdade bowed and
courtesied to her old acquaintance, the superior ship. Captain Baker, meanwhile, not forgetting
a sailor's most highly prized luxury, had ordered in the slings a barrel of potatoes--new from
home! Then dump they came, in a jiffy, into the canoe, giving her a settle in the water of
some inches. Other fresh provisions were handed us, also some books and late papers. J. Aspinwill
Hodge, D.D., on a tour of inspection in the interest of the Presbyterian Mission in Brazil--on
deck here with his camera--got an excellent photograph of the canoe.[5]

One gentleman passed us a bottle of wine, on the label of which was written the name of an
old acquaintance, a merchant of Rio. We pledged Mr. Gudgeon and all his fellow passengers in
that wine, and had some left long after, to the health of the captain of the ship, and his
crew. There was but little time for words, so the compliments passed were brief. The ample
plates in the sides of the Finance, inspiring confidence in American thoroughness and build,
we had hardly time to scan, when her shrill whistle said "good-bye," and moving proudly on,
the great ship was soon out of sight, while the little boat, filling away on the starboard
tack, sailed on toward home, perfumed with the interchange of a friendly greeting, tinged though
with a palpable lonesomeness. Two days after this pleasant meeting, the Port of Pernambuco
was reached.

Tumbling in before a fresh "trade" wind that in the evening had sprung up, accompanied with
long, rolling seas, our canoe came nicely round the point between lighted reef and painted buoy.

Spray from the breakers on the reef opportunely wetting her sails gave them a flat surface
to the wind as we came close haul.

The channel leading up the harbour was not strange to us, so we sailed confidently along the
lee of the wonderful wall made by worms, to which alone Pernambuco is indebted for its excellent
harbour; which, extending also along a great stretch of the coast, protects Brazil from the
encroachment of the sea.

At 8 p.m. we came to in a snug berth near the Alfandega, and early next morning received the
official visit from the polite port officers.

Time from Bahia, five days; distance sailed, 390 miles.

Pernambuco, the principal town of a large and wealthy province of the same name, is a thriving
place, sending out valuable cargoes, principally of sugar and cotton. I had loaded costly cargoes
here, times gone by. I met my old merchant again this time, but could not carry his goods on
the Liberdade. However, fruits from his orchards and a run among the trees refreshed my crew,
and prepared them for the coming voyage to Barbadoes, which was made with expedition.

From Pernambuco we experienced a strong current in our favour, with, sometimes, a confused
cross sea that washed over us considerably. But the swift current sweeping along through it
all made compensation for discomforts of motion, though our "ups and downs" were many. Along
this part of the coast (from Pernambuco to the Amazon), if one day should be fine, three stormy
ones would follow, but the gale was always fair, carrying us forward at a goodly rate.

