"I--I--I see you are throwing away your money on such nonsense--on hunting," began the girl,
in great confusion. "I know--I only want one thing--to be of use to the people, and I can do
nothing because I know nothing--" Her eyes were so truthful, so kind, and her expression of
resoluteness and yet bashfulness was so touching, that Nekhludoff, as it often happened to
him, suddenly felt as if he were in her position, understood, and sympathised.

"What can I do, then?"

"I am a teacher, but should like to follow a course of study; and I am not allowed to do so.
That is, not that I am not allowed to; they'd allow me to, but I have not got the means. Give
them to me, and when I have finished the course I shall repay you. I am thinking the rich kill
bears and give the peasants drink; all this is bad. Why should they not do good? I only want
80 roubles. But if you don't wish to, never mind," she added, gravely.

"On the contrary, I am very grateful to you for this opportunity. . . . I will bring it at
once," said Nekhludoff.

He went out into the passage, and there met one of his comrades, who had been overhearing his
conversation. Paying no heed to his chaffing, Nekhludoff got the money out of his bag and took
it to her.

"Oh, please, do not thank me; it is I who should thank you," he said.

It was pleasant to remember all this now; pleasant to remember that he had nearly had a quarrel
with an officer who tried to make an objectionable joke of it, and how another of his comrades
had taken his part, which led to a closer friendship between them. How successful the whole
of that hunting expedition had been, and how happy he had felt when returning to the railway
station that night. The line of sledges, the horses in tandem, glide quickly along the narrow
road that lies through the forest, now between high trees, now between low firs weighed down
by the snow, caked in heavy lumps on their branches. A red light flashes in the dark, some
one lights an aromatic cigarette. Joseph, a bear driver, keeps running from sledge to sledge,
up to his knees in snow, and while putting things to rights he speaks about the elk which are
now going about on the deep snow and gnawing the bark off the aspen trees, of the bears that
are lying asleep in their deep hidden dens, and his breath comes warm through the opening in
the sledge cover. All this came back to Nekhludoff's mind; but, above all, the joyous sense
of health, strength, and freedom from care: the lungs breathing in the frosty air so deeply
that the fur cloak is drawn tightly on his chest, the fine snow drops off the low branches
on to his face, his body is warm, his face feels fresh, and his soul is free from care, self-reproach,
fear, or desire. How beautiful it was. And now, O God! what torment, what trouble!

Evidently Vera Doukhova was a revolutionist and imprisoned as such. He must see her, especially
as she promised to advise him how to lighten Maslova's lot.

CHAPTER L.

THE VICE-GOVERNOR OF THE PRISON.

Awaking early the next morning, Nekhludoff remembered what he had done the day before, and
was seized with fear.

But in spite of this fear, he was more determined than ever to continue what he had begun.

Conscious of a sense of duty, he left the house and went to see Maslennikoff in order to obtain
from him a permission to visit Maslova in prison, and also the Menshoffs--mother and son--about
whom Maslova had spoken to him. Nekhludoff had known this Maslennikoff a long time; they had
been in the regiment together. At that time Maslennikoff was treasurer to the regiment.

He was a kind-hearted and zealous officer, knowing and wishing to know nothing beyond the regiment
and the Imperial family. Now Nekhludoff saw him as an administrator, who had exchanged the
regiment for an administrative office in the government where he lived. He was married to a
rich and energetic woman, who had forced him to exchange military for civil service. She laughed
at him, and caressed him, as if he were her own pet animal. Nekhludoff had been to see them
once during the winter, but the couple were so uninteresting to him that he had not gone again.

At the sight of Nekhludoff Maslennikoff's face beamed all over. He had the same fat red face,
and was as corpulent and as well dressed as in his military days. Then, he used to be always
dressed in a well-brushed uniform, made according to the latest fashion, tightly fitting his
chest and shoulders; now, it was a civil service uniform he wore, and that, too, tightly fitted
his well-fed body and showed off his broad chest, and was cut according to the latest fashion.
In spite of the difference in age (Maslennikoff was 40), the two men were very familiar with
one another.

"Halloo, old fellow! How good of you to come! Let us go and see my wife. I have just ten minutes
to spare before the meeting. My chief is away, you know. I am at the head of the Government
administration," he said, unable to disguise his satisfaction.

"I have come on business."

"What is it?" said Maslennikoff, in an anxious and severe tone, putting himself at once on
his guard.

"There is a person, whom I am very much interested in, in prison" (at the word "prison" Maslennikoff's
face grew stern); "and I should like to have an interview in the office, and not in the common
visiting-room. I have been told it depended on you."

"Certainly, mon cher," said Maslennikoff, putting both hands on Nekhludoff's knees, as if to
tone down his grandeur; "but remember, I am monarch only for an hour."

"Then will you give me an order that will enable me to see her?"

"It's a woman?"

"Yes."

"What is she there for?"

"Poisoning, but she has been unjustly condemned."

"Yes, there you have it, your justice administered by jury, ils n'en font point d'autres,"
he said, for some unknown reason, in French. "I know you do not agree with me, but it can't
be helped, c'est mon opinion bien arretee," he added, giving utterance to an opinion he had
for the last twelve months been reading in the retrograde Conservative paper. "I know you are
a Liberal."

"I don't know whether I am a Liberal or something else," Nekhludoff said, smiling; it always
surprised him to find himself ranked with a political party and called a Liberal, when he maintained
that a man should be heard before he was judged, that before being tried all men were equal,
that nobody at all ought to be ill-treated and beaten, but especially those who had not yet
been condemned by law. "I don't know whether I am a Liberal or not; but I do know that however
had the present way of conducting a trial is, it is better than the old."

"And whom have you for an advocate?"

"I have spoken to Fanarin."

"Dear me, Fanarin!" said Meslennikoff, with a grimace, recollecting how this Fanarin had examined
him as a witness at a trial the year before and had, in the politest manner, held him up to
ridicule for half an hour.

"I should not advise you to have anything to do with him. Fanarin est un homme tare."

"I have one more request to make," said Nekhludoff, without answering him. "There's a girl
whom I knew long ago, a teacher; she is a very pitiable little thing, and is now also imprisoned,
and would like to see me. Could you give me a permission to visit her?"

Meslennikoff bent his head on one side and considered.

"She's a political one?"

"Yes, I have been told so."

"Well, you see, only relatives get permission to visit political prisoners. Still, I'll give
you an open order. Je sais que vous n'abuserez pas. What's the name of your protegee? Doukhova?
Elle est jolie?"

"Hideuse."

Maslennikoff shook his head disapprovingly, went up to the table, and wrote on a sheet of paper,
with a printed heading: "The bearer, Prince Dmitri Ivanovitch Nekhludoff, is to be allowed
to interview in the prison office the meschanka Maslova, and also the medical assistant, Doukhova,"
and he finished with an elaborate flourish.

"Now you'll be able to see what order we have got there. And it is very difficult to keep order,
it is so crowded, especially with people condemned to exile; but I watch strictly, and love
the work. You will see they are very comfortable and contented. But one must know how to deal
with them. Only a few days ago we had a little trouble--insubordination; another would have
called it mutiny, and would have made many miserable, but with us it all passed quietly. We
must have solicitude on one hand, firmness and power on the other," and he clenched the fat,
white, turquoise-ringed fist, which issued out of the starched cuff of his shirt sleeve, fastened
with a gold stud. "Solicitude and firm power."

"Well, I don't know about that," said Nekhludoff. "I went there twice, and felt very much depressed."

"Do you know, you ought to get acquainted with the Countess Passek," continued Maslennikoff,
growing talkative. "She has given herself up entirely to this sort of work. Elle fait beaucoup
de bien. Thanks to her--and, perhaps I may add without false modesty, to me--everything has
been changed, changed in such a way that the former horrors no longer exist, and they are really
quite comfortable there. Well, you'll see. There's Fanarin. I do not know him personally; besides,
my social position keeps our ways apart; but he is positively a bad man, and besides, he takes
the liberty of saying such things in the court--such things!"

"Well, thank you," Nekhludoff said, taking the paper, and without listening further he bade
good-day to his former comrade.

"And won't you go in to see my wife?"

"No, pray excuse me; I have no time now."

"Dear me, why she will never forgive me," said Maslennikoff, accompanying his old acquaintance
down to the first landing, as he was in the habit of doing to persons of not the greatest,
but the second greatest importance, with whom he classed Nekhludoff; "now do go in, if only
for a moment."

But Nekhludoff remained firm; and while the footman and the door-keeper rushed to give him
his stick and overcoat, and opened the door, outside of which there stood a policeman, Nekhludoff
repeated that he really could not come in.

"Well, then; on Thursday, please. It is her 'at-home.' I will tell her you will come," shouted
Maslennikoff from the stairs.

CHAPTER LI.

THE CELLS.

Nekhludoff drove that day straight from Maslennikoff's to the prison, and went to the inspector's
lodging, which he now knew. He was again struck by the sounds of the same piano of inferior
quality; but this time it was not a rhapsody that was being played, but exercises by Clementi,
again with the same vigour, distinctness, and quickness. The servant with the bandaged eye
said the inspector was in, and showed Nekhludoff to a small drawing-room, in which there stood
a sofa and, in front of it, a table, with a large lamp, which stood on a piece of crochet work,
and the paper shade of which was burnt on one side. The chief inspector entered, with his usual
sad and weary look.

"Take a seat, please. What is it you want?" he said, buttoning up the middle button of his uniform.

"I have just been to the vice-governor's, and got this order from him. I should like to see
the prisoner Maslova."

"Markova?" asked the inspector, unable to bear distinctly because of the music.

"Maslova!"

"Well, yes." The inspector got up and went to the door whence proceeded Clementi's roulades.

"Mary, can't you stop just a minute?" he said, in a voice that showed that this music was the
bane of his life. "One can't hear a word."

The piano was silent, but one could hear the sound of reluctant steps, and some one looked
in at the door.

