At last the people in a body
  To the Town Hall came flocking:
"'Tis clear," cried they, "our Mayor's a noddy;
  And as for our Corporation,--shocking
To think we buy gowns lined with ermine
For dolts that can't or won't determine
What's best to rid us of our vermin!
You hope, because you're old and obese,
To find in the furry civic robe ease?
Rouse up, sirs! Give your brains a racking
To find the remedy we're lacking,
Or, sure as fate, we'll send you packing."
At this the Mayor and Corporation
Quaked with a mighty consternation.

An hour they sate in counsel,--
  At length the Mayor broke silence:
For a guilder I'd my ermine gown sell;
  I wish I were a mile hence!
It's easy to bid one rack one's brain,--
I'm sure my poor head aches again,
I've scratched it so, and all in vain,
O for a trap, a trap, a trap!"
Just as he said this, what could hap
At the chamber door but a gentle tap?
"Bless us," cried the Mayor, "what's that?"
(With the Corporation as he sat,
Looking little though wondrous fat;
Nor brighter was his eye, nor moister
Than a too-long-opened oyster,
Save when at noon his paunch grew mutinous
For a plate of turtle green and glutinous.)
"Only a scraping of shoes on the mat?
Anything like the sound of a rat
Makes my heart go pit-a-pat!"

"Come in!"--the Mayor cried, looking bigger; And in did come the strangest figure; His queer
long coat from heel to head Was half of yellow and half of red. And he himself was tall and
thin, With sharp blue eyes, each like a pin, And light loose hair, yet swarthy skin, No tuft
on cheek nor beard on chin, But lips where smiles went out and in; There was no guessing his
kith and kin;

And nobody could enough admire The tall man and his quaint attire. Quoth one: "It's as my great-grandsire,
Starting up at the Trump of Doom's tone, Had walked this way from his painted tombstone!"

He advanced to the council-table:
And, "Please your honors," said he, "I'm able,
By means of a secret charm, to draw
 All creatures living beneath the sun,
That creep or swim or fly or run,
After me so as you never saw!
And I chiefly use my charm
On creatures that do people harm,
The mole and toad and newt and viper;
And people call me the Pied Piper."
(And here they noticed round his neck
A scarf of red and yellow stripe,
To match with his coat of the self-same check;
And at the scarf's end hung a pipe;
And his fingers, they noticed, were ever straying
As if impatient to be playing
Upon this pipe, as low it dangled
Over his vesture so old-fangled.)
"Yet," said he, "poor piper as I am,
In Tartary I freed the Cham,
Last June, from his huge swarm of gnats;
I eased in Asia the Nizam
Of a monstrous brood of vampire-bats;
And as for what your brain bewilders,--
If I can rid your town of rats,
Will you give me a thousand guilders?"
"One? fifty thousand!"--was the exclamation
Of the astonished Mayor and Corporation.

Into the street the piper stept,
  Smiling first a little smile,
As if he knew what magic slept
  In his quiet pipe the while;
Then, like a musical adept,
To blow the pipe his lips he wrinkled,
And green and blue his sharp eyes twinkled,
Like a candle flame where salt is sprinkled;
And ere three shrill notes the pipe uttered,
You heard as if an army muttered;
And the muttering grew to a grumbling;
And the grumbling grew to a mighty rumbling;
And out of the houses the rats came tumbling,
Great rats, small rats, lean rats, brawny rats,
Brown rats, black rats, gray rats, tawny rats,
Grave old plodders, gay young friskers,
  Fathers, mothers, uncles, cousins,
Cocking tails and pricking whiskers;
  Families by tens and dozens,
Brothers, sisters, husbands, wives,--
Followed the piper for their lives.
From street to street he piped advancing,
And step for step they followed dancing,
Until they came to the river Weser,
Wherein all plunged and perished
Save one who, stout as Julius Caesar,
Swam across and lived to carry
(As he, the manuscript he cherished)
To Rat-land home his commentary,
Which was: "At the first shrill notes of the pipe,
I heard a sound as of scraping tripe,
And putting apples, wondrous ripe,
Into a cider-press's gripe,--
And a moving away of pickle-tub boards,
And a leaving ajar of conserve-cupboards,
And a drawing the corks of train-oil-flasks,
And a breaking the hoops of butter-casks;
And it seemed as if a voice
(Sweeter far than by harp or by psaltery
Is breathed) called out, 'O rats, rejoice!
The world is grown to one vast drysaltery! The
male, wide-winged and more gracefully shaped,
hovers incessantly a few inches above
the expanse. Of novice eyes she would
easily pass for a sort to robust Ant, separate from
the ready ruck by her garb of staring motley.


You should have heard the Hamelin people Ringing the bells till they rocked the steeple; "Go,"
cried the Mayor, "and get long poles! Poke out the nests and block up the holes! Consult with
carpenters and builders And leave in our town not even a trace Of the rats!"--when suddenly,
up the face Of the piper perked in the market-place, With a "First, if you please, my thousand
guilders!" A thousand guilders! The Mayor looked blue; So did the Corporation too. For council-dinners
made rare havoc With Claret, Moselle, Vin-de-Grave, Hock; And half the money would replenish
Their cellar's biggest butt with Rhenish. To pay this sum to a wandering fellow With a gypsy
coat of red and yellow! "Beside," quoth the Mayor, with a knowing wink, "Our business was done
at the river's brink; We saw with our eyes the vermin sink, And what's dead can't come to life,
I think. So, friend, we're not the folks to shrink From the duty of giving you something for
drink, And a matter of money to put in your poke; But as for the guilders, what we spoke Of
them, as you very well know, was in joke. Besides, our losses have made us thrifty; A thousand
guilders! Come, take fifty!"

The piper's face fell, and he cried, "No trifling! I can't wait! beside, I've promised to visit
by dinner time Bagdat, and accept the prime Of the head cook's pottage, all he's rich in, For
having left, in the Caliph's kitchen, Of a nest of scorpions no survivor,-- With him I proved
no bargain-driver; With you, don't think I'll bate a stiver! And folks who put me in a passion
May find me pipe to another fashion."

"How?" cried the Mayor, "d'ye think I'll brook Being worse treated than a cook? Insulted by
a lazy ribald With idle pipe and vesture piebald? You threaten us, fellow? Do your worst, Blow
your pipe there till you burst!"

Once more he stept into the street;
  And to his lips again
Laid his long pipe of smooth straight cane;
  And ere he blew three notes (such sweet
Soft notes as yet musician's cunning
  Never gave the enraptured air)
There was a rustling that seemed like a bustling
Of merry crowds justling at pitching and hustling;
Small feet were pattering, wooden shoes clattering,
Little hands clapping, and little tongues chattering;
And, like fowls in a farm-yard when barley is scattering,
Out came the children running;
All the little boys and girls,
With rosy cheeks and flaxen curls,
And sparkling eyes and teeth like pearls,
Tripping and skipping, ran merrily after
The wonderful music with shouting and laughter.

