The soldiers had accompanied me into the cell to complete the preliminaries which comprised
the final search. This involved my transition to a state of nature. My frock coat was removed
and all pockets further examined. The seams and lining were closely investigated while even
the buttons were probed to make certain they concealed nothing of a dangerous nature. In a
few minutes they discovered my silent companion, the tiny camera, which I had deftly removed
from its secret hiding-place to a tail pocket in my coat, as I did not wish to have it found
in its hiding-place, which would have been far more incriminating. I had done this while coming
down the steps to the cells. Also I had extracted the exposed film and had placed this in a
spot where it was absolutely safe from discovery.

When the soldiers alighted upon the instrument they were sorely puzzled. All my pockets had
been turned inside out in the room upstairs and now this camera had been brought to light.
They shook their heads completely baffled, and looked at me meaningly. But my face was inscrutable.

Every garment was subjected to a rigorous search. Yet beyond the camera they found nothing.
Certainly no papers were brought to light. There was no mistaking their bitter disappointment;
this was plainly written upon their faces. My watch was prized open, and the works were turned
out, while a photograph of my wife and children was torn from the back case to make certain
there was nothing concealed behind it. My shirt was turned over and over and held up to the
light to be examined inch by inch for any traces of secret writing. But all to no purpose.
From their mortification and behaviour I surmised that they had been promised a monetary reward
if they succeeded in finding anything in writing. And now they were destined to go empty-handed.
Thereupon, after laying their heads together for a few seconds, they drew pencil and paper
from their pockets and commenced writing.

I was suspicious of this action. To me it was palpable that, animated by the lure of money
and foiled in their efforts, they were prepared to go the length of concocting evidence against
me. At least I thought so, and summarily frustrated their action. I went to them and by the
aid of signs demonstrated that I wanted the paper torn up, or I would ring the emergency bell
and summon the head gaoler to explain matters. They apparently did not relish my threat, because
they instantly tore the paper to shreds.

By the time their search was completed I was stripped to the skin. But I was not permitted
to re-dress. Evidently they concluded that I might have pockets in my epidermis because they
went over me, inch by inch, resorting to actions which were wholly unnecessary and which were
revolting, degrading, and demoralising to the last degree--such actions as one would hardly
expect even from the lowest animals. During the process they joked and gibed freely at my expense.

Although it was with the utmost difficulty I controlled my feelings, my blood soon began to
boil, rapidly rising to fever heat, when they descended to familiarities and personalities
which flesh and blood could not stand. I suffered their indignities as long as I could. Then
unable to contain my rage any longer I threw myself at the leader of the party, pitching into
him with all the strength I could command. I pommelled him unmercifully with my fists and he
began to howl somewhat vociferously. His comrades were too surprised at my unexpected rebellion
to extend assistance, until at last their dull wits took in the situation. I caught a glimpse
of one of the soldiers grasping his rifle. I saw it flash in the air--I remembered no more.

When I awoke I was lying stark naked upon the floor of my cell. My head was racking and throbbing
like a hammer. Raising my hand to my forehead I sharply withdrew it. It was quite wet, and
as I looked more closely, I saw that it was blood. I felt again and found my face clotted and
my hair reeking wet from a ragged wound on the head. Evidently the soldier whose rifle I had
seen swinging through the air, had brought it down heavily upon my skull, felling me like an
ox. How long I had lain unconscious I never knew, but it must have been for some time, judging
from the quantity of blood I had lost, which was partially congealed on my face, neck and shoulders.
I shivered with the cold and collecting my senses I commenced to dress my wound. For bandages
I had to tear my shirt to ribbons. I swabbed the ragged wound as well as I could, and then
bound it up. Weary and faint from loss of blood I dressed myself with extreme difficulty and
then proceeded to examine my present abode.

We are familiar with the cramped quarters at the Tower of London into which our mediæval sovereigns
were wont to thrust our ancestors who fell foul of authority. Wesel Prison is the German counterpart
of our famous quondam fortress-prison. The cells are little, if any, larger than those in the
Tower, and are used to this day. My residence measured about nine feet in length by about four
and a half feet in width, and was approximately ten feet in height--about the size of the entrance
hall in an average small suburban residence. High up in the wall was a window some two feet
square. But it admitted little or no daylight. It was heavily barred, while outside was a sloping
hood which descended to a point well below the sill, so that all the light which penetrated
into the cell was reflected from below against the black interior of the hood. In addition
there was a glazed window, filthy dirty, while even the slight volume of light which it permitted
to pass was obstructed further by small-mesh wire netting. Consequently the interior was wrapped
in a dismal gloom throughout the greater part of the day, through which one could scarcely
discern the floor when standing upright. After daylight waned the cell was enveloped in Cimmerian
blackness until daybreak, no lights being permitted.

The bed comprised three rough wooden planks, void of all covering and mattress, and raised
a few inches above the floor. The other appointments were exceedingly meagre, consisting of
a small jug and basin as well as a small sanitary pan. High on the wall was a broken shelf.
That was all. The wall itself was about two feet in thickness and wrought of masonry.

The walls themselves were covered with inscriptions written and scratched by those who had
been doomed to this depressing domicile. Some of the drawings were beautifully executed, but
the majority of the inscriptions testified, far more eloquently than words can describe, to
the utter depravity of many of those who had preceded me, and who had passed their last span
of life on this earth within these confines.

A few minutes sufficed to take in these general features. Then my attention was riveted upon
the floor, and this told a silent, poignant story which it would be difficult to parallel.
The promenade was less than nine feet--in fact, it was only two full paces--and barely twelve
inches in width. Consequently the occupant, as he paced to and fro, trod always upon the same
spots. And the patterings of the feet in that short walk had worn the board into hollows at
the treads. I felt those hollows with my hands, traced their formation, and despite my unhappy
plight could not refrain from musing upon the stories which those hollows could relate--stories
of abandoned hope, frenzy, madness, resignation, suppressed fury, and pathetic awaiting of
the doom which could not be averted.

Those hollows exercised an irresistible fascination for me, and when I started to walk they
drew my feet as certainly as the magnet attracts the iron filings. I would strive to avoid
the hollows and for a few seconds would succeed, but within a short time my feet fell into
them. Later I learned from one of my wardens that the pacings of the criminals condemned to
this and the other cells is so persistent and ceaseless as to demand the renewal of the boards
at frequent intervals.

In the United States the third degree has attained a revolting ill-fame. But the American third
degree must be paradise in comparison with what can only be described as its equivalent in
Germany. The Teuton method is far more effective and brutal. The man is not badgered, coaxed,
and threatened in the hope of extorting a signed confession, but he is condemned to loneliness,
silence and solitude amid a gloom which can be felt, and which within a short time eats into
your very soul. Add to this complete deprivation of exercise and insufficient, un-nourishing,
food, and one can gather some faint idea of the effect which is wrought upon the human body.
The German idea is to wear down a man physically as well as mentally, until at last he is brought
to the verge of insanity and collapse. By breaking the bodily strength and undermining the
mind he is reduced to such a deplorable condition as to render him as pliable as putty in the
hands of his accusers. He is rendered absolutely incapable of defending himself. He fails to
realise what is said against him or the significance of his own words.

His brain is the first to succumb to the strain, utter loneliness speedily conducing to this
result, aggravated by a sensation which is produced by walking the cell, and which I will describe
later. Consequently he invariably achieves with his own mouth what his persecutors desire--his
own condemnation. To make their devilry complete German justice resorts to a final phase which
seals the fate of the poor wretch irrevocably, as I will narrate.

I had been deprived of every belonging. I was denied paper, pencil and reading material. Solitary
confinement in Germany is carried out in strict accordance with the interpretation of the term.
One is left alone with one's thoughts. At intervals of ten minutes the gaoler opens the peep-hole
and peers within. Consequently you are under constant surveillance, and this contributes towards
the unhinging of the mind. Night and day, without a break, the peep-hole opens with mechanical
regularity. Not only is all mental exercise denied but physical exercise as well. All that
one can do towards stretching one's limbs is to pace the tiny cell. The method is typically
Prussian, and is complete in its Prussian thoroughness and devilishness.

I sat down upon my bed with my bleeding, aching head in my hands, an object of abject misery.
Not a sound beyond the clanging of doors was to be heard, punctuated at frequent intervals
by the dull thud of blows, as some hapless wretch was being clubbed, the shrieks and howls
of prisoners, and the groans of those on the verge of insanity. It was just as if all the demons
of the Nether Regions were at work worrying and harrying their victims. While rocking myself
to and fro I heard the turning of the key. The gaoler entered with a bowl containing some evil-looking
and worse smelling soup. I ventured to speak, but he merely glowered threateningly and departed
without uttering a sound. The dinner was revolting, but recognising that I was considered to
be a criminal, and as such was condemned to prison fare I ventured to taste the nauseous skilly.
I took one mouthful. My nose rebelled at the smell and my stomach rose into my throat at the
taste. One sip was more than adequate, so I pushed the basin to one side. I threw myself upon
the plank bed. Ten minutes later the peep-hole opened. I took no notice but started when a
gruff voice roared "Get up!"

I ignored the command. The door opened and the guard came in. He gave me a savage prod with
his rifle. I sat up.

"Get up! Pace!" he roared.

I relapsed on to my bed without a murmur only to receive a resounding clout which set my head
throbbing once more with accentuated intensity.

"Get up! Pace!" came the roar again.

The guard pointed to the floor.

I saw what was expected of me. I was to walk to and fro up and down the cell. I was not to
be allowed to sit down. Wearily I got up and started to "pace!" One--two--steps forward: one--two--steps
back! Only that and no more. The guard watched me for a few seconds and then went out.

I continued to do his bidding for a short while, but walking two paces, then swinging round
on the heels, taking two more strides, turning round again, to make another two steps, soon
brought on violent giddiness. But that doesn't matter to the German. Within a few minutes I
felt as if I had been spun round like a top and stumbled rather than paced. But to stumble
was to court disaster because my ankles came into violent contact with the plank bed. Again
I had to keep my thoughts centred upon the pacing. To allow them to stray was to essay a third
step inadvertently which brought my face into violent collision with the wall. More than once
I made my nose bleed copiously from this cause.

Within a few minutes my brain was whirling madly, my head throbbed from my wound, while my
face was bruised from colliding with the wall. I was so giddy that I could not stand erect,
while my eyes burned and ached as if they had been seared with a red-hot iron. I fell upon
the plank bed, but open flew the peep-hole and again rang out the ominous growl, "Pace!"

And this is what I was condemned to do hour after hour through the livelong day. The only respite
comes when meals are brought in and during the night, when the prisoner is left alone. But
throughout the day, from 6.30 in the morning to about 7 at night one must pursue the eternal
round--two paces forward, right about, two paces back, right about, and so on. The punishment
cannot be escaped; it is not suspended for illness until collapse comes to the relief of the
hapless wretch. It is a refinement of cruelty which probably is not to be found in any other
country. Little wonder that the continued dizziness and lack of ability to stretch the limbs
bring about a complete nervous prostration and reduce the strongest man to a physical wreck
within a very short time. And if the hapless prisoner declines to answer the stern command
"Pace!" then bayonet prodding, clubbing and head-cuffing are brought into action as a stimulant.

Ages seemed to have passed before the door opened again, although as a matter of fact, there
is only about 4½ hours between the mid-day and the afternoon meals. I lost all account of time,
even during the first day of my incarceration. An hour's pacing seemed like weeks. This time
the gaoler brought me another basin containing a greenish liquid, very much like the water
in which cabbages are cooked, accompanied by a hunk of black bread.

The method of serving the meals is distinctly German. The gaoler opens the door. He places
the food on the ground at the entrance and pushes it along the floor into the cell as if the
inmate were a leper. I tasted this repast, but it was even more noisome than the dinner, so
I placed it beside the bowl which I had first received, and which with its spoon was left with
me. Even if one could have swallowed it I should not have received a very sustaining meal,
seeing that it had to suffice until 5.30 the next morning--13 hours without food. Moreover
the food is served out sparingly. It is not designed to nourish the frame, but is just sufficient
to keep it going though with depreciating strength.

Daylight waned to give way to the blackness of night and in my cell I could not see my hand
before my face. Yet darkness was not an unmitigated evil. It did bring relief from the enforced
pacing for which I was devoutly thankful. Although torn with hunger I was so exhausted as to
jump at the opportunity to lie down. But the planks were hard, and being somewhat slender in
build my thighs speedily became sore. My brain from the fiendish exercise refused to stop spinning.
I was like a drunken man and to lie down was to provoke a feeling of nausea which was worse
than pacing. Then as the night wore on I began to shiver with the cold because I was denied
any covering. How I passed the first night I cannot recall, but I am certain that a greater
part of the time passed in delirium, and I almost cried with delight when I saw the first rays
of the breaking day filter through the window. They at least did modify the terrible darkness.

At 5.30 in the morning along came the gaoler. The cell was opened and a broom was thrust into
my hands. To me that domestic utensil was as a new toy to a child. I grasped it with delight:
it at least would give me some occupation. I set to sweeping the cell furiously. I could have
enjoyed the company of that broom for hours, but a prisoner is only allowed two minutes to
sweep his cell. Then the broom was snatched out of my hands and to the droning of "Pace!" which
rang out continually like the tolling of a funeral bell, I knew the next day had begun.

I fell back on to my bed almost broken at heart at being deprived of the humble broom. But
by now the significance of German solitary confinement had been brought home to me fully. I
would not be broken. I would ward off the terrible results at all hazards. So when the gaoler
came with my breakfast he found me in high spirits--assumed for the occasion I may say. When
he pushed in the basin of skilly I picked it up and set it beside the others. Pointing to the
row of untouched food I turned to him cynically and remarked, "Don't you think you're making
too much fuss of me?"

"Ach!" he growled in reply.

"If you persist in going on like this I shall think I am in a nursing home!"

"Ach!" he retorted sharply, "If you think you are in a nursing home you'll soon change your
mind," saying which he slammed the door with extra vigour.

The only interlude to the daily round is shortly after sweeping cells. The doors are thrown
open and each prisoner, armed with his water jug and sanitary pan, forms up in line in the
corridor. They are spaced two paces apart and this distance must be rigorously maintained.
If you vary it a fraction a smart rap over the head with the rifle brings you back again to
the correct position. The German warders never attempt to correct by words. The rifle is a
handy weapon and a smart knock therewith is always forceful. Consequently, if you are dull
of comprehension, your body speedily assumes a zebra appearance with its patches of black and blue.

We were marched off to a huge yard flanked by a towering wall studded with hundreds of heavily
barred windows--cells. Only those resident in the "Avenue of the Damned" experience this limited
latitude, the ordinary prisoners being extended the privilege of ordinary exercise. Not a word
must be spoken; to do so is to invite a crash over the head, insensibility being an effective
protection against communication between prisoners.

Reaching the yard we were lined up, still two paces apart and under the hawk-eyes of the guard.
Then the first man from one end advanced to the pump, alongside which stood two soldiers with
fixed bayonets with which the man was prodded if he evinced signs of lingering or dwelling
unduly over his work. The duty involved cleaning out the sanitary pan, in which by the way
dependence had to be placed upon the hands alone, no mop or cloth being allowed. Then the jug
had to be refilled from the pump, which was a crazy old appliance worked by hand. I may say
that so far as we prisoners residing in the ill-famed avenue were concerned we had to depend
upon water entirely for washing purposes--soap was an unheard-of luxury--while a towel was
unknown. Under these circumstances it was impossible to keep clean. Shaving was another pleasure
which we were denied, and I may say that the prisoners residing in the salubrious neighbourhood
of the condemned cells had the most unkempt and ragged appearance it is possible to conceive.
When the man had finished his task he marched to the opposite end of the line, his place being
immediately taken by the next man, and so on until the work was completed, which usually involved
about ten minutes.

Although intercourse was rendered impossible by the vigilance and number of the guards yet
I was able to take stock of my neighbours. We were a small but cosmopolitan family, the French
predominating. For some inscrutable reason the Germans appear to have been unusually successful
in their haul of French spies, although doubtless the great majority were as innocent of the
charge of espionage as I was. Yet we were a motley throng and I do not think any self-respecting
tramps would have chummed up with us. Many of my fellow prisoners bore unmistakable evidences
of premature old age--the fruits of solitary confinement, lack of exercise, and insufficient
food. Others seemed half-witted and dazed as a result of the brutal treatment which they had
received. Some were so weak that they could scarcely manipulate the crazy pump. Many were garbed
only in trousers, being void of boots, socks, shirts and vest. Unkempt beards concealed thin,
worn and haggard faces studded with red bloodshot eyes.

While I was waiting in the line my attention was arrested by one man, who formed a member of
our party. He was a German, but he did not appear as if he had been guilty of any heinous crime--at
least not one of sufficient calibre to bring him into our Avenue. He was well built, of attractive
personality, and was well dressed in a blue suit complete with clean collar, tie and other details.

Who was he? What was he doing with us? Was he a spy? My curiosity was thoroughly aroused. I
became interested in him, and strange to say the sentiment was mutual because he could not
take his eyes from me. I keenly wanted to speak to him but this was frankly out of the question.
Yet we seemed to be drawing together.

I did not attempt to speak but contrived by sundry movements and shuffling on one pretext or
another to get closer to him. Then I resorted to subterfuge. Standing with my hands in front
of me I began to twiddle my fingers rapidly. The action appeared to be natural and did not
arouse the slightest suspicion. Within the limitations available I was forming some of the
letters of the deaf and dumb alphabet with which I am fully acquainted and dexterous. Did he
understand the language? I watched him closely. Presently I saw his fingers begin to move with
apparent equal aimlessness. I watched intently. He was answering me and to my joy I discovered
that he understood English.

Our fingers were now working briskly and we carried on a brief monosyllabic conversation while
the other prisoners were completing their work. From him I learned that I was certainly in
great danger. But he urged me to cheer up. Then he asked me the number of my cell, which I
gave. He replied that he was directly opposite me, and he told me to look out for him whenever
I got a chance, which, needless to say, under the stringency of my life, was not likely to
be often. He had such a frank open face that I felt as if I could trust him, although I had
come to regard every German, no matter how apparently innocent his conversation might be, with
the gravest suspicion. But a quaint, quiet, suppressed smile which he gave restored my confidence
completely.

The hours dragged along as during the previous day. It was wearying and exhausting. I refused
all my food and was making an imposing collection of bowls of foodstuff. None was taken away.
The gaoler merely observed that I had not touched anything, but he made no comment. When night
fell I essayed to lie down, but this was impossible. The sores on my projecting thigh bones
had broken into large wounds which were now bleeding and suppurating and were so painful as
to render lying down impossible. As a matter of fact more than two months passed before those
wounds healed and the scars are still visible.

I was lying as best I could upon my bed vainly striving to woo sleep. It was about midnight.
The key grated in the lock and a young officer entered. He was gruff of manner, but according
to the German standard was not unkind. I found that his manner was merely a mask to dissipate
any suspicion among others who might be prowling round, such is the distrust of one German
of another. After he had shut the door his manner changed completely and he was disposed to
be affable. But I resented his intrusion. Had he come to fathom me? Was he an emissary seeking
to induce me to commit myself inadvertently? Frankly I thought so. He spoke softly and his
voice was intentionally kind, while he spoke English perfectly.

"I would like to help you," he began.

"Would you?" I retorted cynically.

"Yes, I am very fond of the English. I have lived in London several years and have many friends
over there."

"Well, it's a thousand pities we don't serve some of your blighted countrymen the same as they
are serving me," I shot back.

"Yes, I know. I am very sorry for you. But it is our way. Now I, myself, don't think you are
a spy. I think your story is honest and straightforward."

"Then why in the name of Heaven don't they treat me so until they have tried me?"

"Ah! That is the English way. Here, in Germany, a man is guilty until he is found innocent!"

"Oh! So that's your much-vaunted German 'Kultur,' is it?" I laughed sarcastically.

Seeing that I was a bit overwrought he sought to pacify me.

"Would you like a cigarette?"

At the thought of a smoke I nearly jumped for joy. There was nothing for which I had been yearning
so much as the solace of a cigarette. I took one from his proffered case.

"H'sh! I cannot stay any longer now. The guard might get suspicious. But I will do all I can
for you. I will come to see you every night at this time. I will make you as comfortable as
I can as a return for the many courtesies and kindnesses I received while in London. Now light
up and jump up to the ventilator to puff the smoke out. If they smell tobacco in the cell you
will get into serious trouble."

He bade me good-night and the next instant I was at the window to enjoy the only peaceful few
minutes of pleasure which had come my way since my arrest. My smoke completed I settled down
to sleep with additional comfort.

At 2.30 in the morning I was once more awakened. The door flew open and in rushed my friend
the young officer. He was terribly agitated. He grasped both my hands and I felt that he was
trembling like a leaf. His voice was so broken that he could scarcely speak.

"Good God! Do you know what has happened? Great Britain has declared war on Germany!" Like
a child he burst out crying. As for myself I knew hardly what to think. I had been hoping against
hope that the circumstance of our still keeping friendly relations would facilitate my speedy
release. This hope was fairly blasted now, and I was certain to meet with far shorter shrift
and harsher treatment than had already been meted out to me. I may say that this was the first
intelligence I had received about the outbreak of war with Great Britain.

Stifling his emotion the officer went on.

"I am very sorry it has happened. I shall not be able to see you again!"

"Why?"

"I have to leave for the front. I have ten minutes to say farewell to my poor old mother."
Here he broke down once more. "My poor mother," he wailed. "It will kill her. She does not
know a soul in Wesel. We are utter strangers. I was summoned back from London only a week or
two ago." He gave vent to another outburst of sobbing.

"Cheer up!" I said soothingly, "you'll see her when you come back!"

"Come back?" he echoed bitterly. "No! I shall never come back. I shall never see her again!
Good-bye! Remember that I always thought kindly of the English. But I won't forget you before
I go!"

His fatalistic resignation somewhat moved me. He was inwardly convinced that he was going to
his death. But I appreciated his sparing a little of his bare ten minutes to give me a parting
visit. I also thank him for remembering me as he had promised. Shortly after he had gone the
gaoler came to my cell with a sack of fresh straw to serve as a mattress. The young officer
had paid him to extend me this slight privilege. To me it was like a Heaven-sent blessing,
because it enabled me to seek a little repose without subjecting my bleeding hips to further
damage.

During the following day, Wednesday, I was enabled to snatch a peep of the corridor without,
owing to the gaoler paying me a visit in response to my summons. To my utter astonishment,
looking across the corridor, I saw the mysterious prisoner with whom I had been talking by
aid of the mute alphabet, lounging at the door of his open cell smoking a cigar. This discovery
startled me, and I decided to be more than ever on my guard. To my mind, which was becoming
distracted, everyone appeared to be spying upon my actions. The mysterious prisoner looked
across the corridor and saw me. Instantly his fingers commenced to move rapidly. I was talking
to the gaoler, but was looking beyond him at the prisoner opposite, greedily taking in the
signs. I almost jumped as I read off the letters. "Be alert! Something is going to happen!"

CHAPTER IV

MY SECRET MIDNIGHT TRIAL

It was Wednesday evening. I should judge the hour was about eight, although to me it appeared
to be nearer midnight. I was lying upon my planks thinking and wondering what the end of it
would be. My head was whirling with giddiness from the eternal pacing, and from the wound which
I had received, while I was faint from hunger, having eaten nothing since the lunch on the
train on Monday, save for the two small rolls upon Wesel station. I had not refused the prison
fare from feelings of obstinacy, but simply because my stomach revolted at it. The untouched
basins were still standing beside me in a row, the one which had been served first now commencing
to emit distinct signs of its staleness.

The door opened, but I ignored it. In fact I was in a semi-comatose condition.

"Rouse! Get up!" growled the head gaoler.

I struggled to a sitting posture and looked up. Standing beside me was a military officer.
I could not repress a start. But the absence of arrogance somewhat reassured me, and I struggled
to my feet.

"Herr Mahoney," he commenced, "a serious view has been taken of your case. However, as you
have money the authorities are prepared to give you every chance to prove your innocence. You
can have counsel if you choose. I can arrange it at once!"

I reflected for a moment. The crisis had been reached at last, and the moment for which I had
been longing for bracing myself up to meet the supreme ordeal had arrived. I decided to maintain
a stiff upper lip. Yet, in all fairness I must admit that the authorities were treating me
justly. Here was I, an absolute stranger in their country, ignorant of the language beyond
a few colloquialisms, and in the most dangerous situation in which a man could possibly find
himself.

Yet I did not regard the offer favourably. I feared that it was a move to trap me decisively.
I should be at the mercy of counsel. This was the thought which harassed me. However, subsequently,
I discovered that throughout that Wednesday the trials of other spies had been held, and that
in no other instance, so far as I could ascertain, had the privilege of representation by counsel
been extended. But I swiftly made up my mind as to my course of action.

"Thank you for the offer," I retorted at last, "but I prefer to undertake my own defence. Besides
I am absolutely innocent and it will not be a difficult matter for me to convince the Court."

"As you will," and the officer shrugged his shoulders.

He went to the door, and at his command four soldiers came up with loaded rifles. They closed
around me, their bayonets levelled, to run me through should I make an attempt to escape. We
marched out of the cell. Up, up, up, we went, the steps appearing to be interminable. I walked
as if in a dream, and being faint and weary I moved somewhat slowly. But, strange to say, my
escort did not hurry me. I was certainly shown every consideration upon this occasion. During
the procession I was thinking hard and swiftly, and with a superhuman effort pulled myself
together for the coming fight for life.

We entered a spacious, well-lighted room. At the opposite end was a long table set transversely,
around three sides of which were seated a number of military dignitaries. That they were of
considerable eminence was evident from their prodigal array of decorations. They glanced at
me as I entered, but instantly resumed their low conversation and perusal of documents and
other material connected with my case. It did not require a second thought to realise the importance
of this court-martial, but I felt somewhat perturbed at one circumstance.

My trial was to be held in secret.

I was made to take up a position some distance from the table and immediately opposite the
central figure who was acting as chairman and inquisitor-in-chief. The soldiers formed a semi-circle
around me, the only open space being immediately before me.

At this date I often reflect upon the strange and sorry sight I must have presented. I was
dressed in a frock coat which was sadly soiled, a white waistcoat extremely dirty and blood-stained,
and trousers sadly frayed at the bottom where the searchers had ripped off the turn-ups. I
was without a shirt, having torn this up to bandage my head, which even now was swathed in
a dirty, blood-stained dressing, while the buttons had become detached from my under-vest so
that the soiled ends flapped over my waistcoat. My face was none too clean, being besmirched
with smudges, since I had been denied the luxuries of soap and towel, and it was covered with
a stubbly growth. Altogether I must have been the most sorry-looking, if not revolting specimen
of a spy ever arraigned before that immaculate Tribunal.

It is useless to relate the trial in extenso because there were so many details which were
completely void of interest except to me and my judges. Although every word, passage, and scene
is burned into my brain I have only committed the most important episodes to paper. The proceedings
opened with the chairman holding forth in monotone German. Seeing that I took no notice of
his tirade he paused. We were soon to come to grips. He fired at me in English:

"You understand German?"

"No!"

"Well, we think you do!"

"You are at liberty to think what you like, but the fact remains that I don't!"

Seeing that I was not to be over-awed by his arrogance or to be brow-beaten he modified his
attitude. This spirited bout sobered the tribunal, and the trial proceeded more smoothly, except
for a few outbursts now and again which were sharp and pointed while they lasted.

"Well, we will provide you with an interpreter," he continued in a more placid tone, "but we
still hold the opinion that you can speak and understand German!"

There was delay for a few minutes. Then the door opened and a second later my interpreter stood
beside me. How it was I did not jump into the air I do not know, because the man summoned to
assist me was none other than the mysterious prisoner with whom I had been talking in the mute
alphabet.

This dénouement almost unnerved me. I was now more positive than ever that he had been deputed
to spy upon me in prison. I looked at him askance, but received not the slightest sign of recognition.
I had refused to entrust my cause to counsel and now I was placed in the hands of an interpreter
who, if he so desired, could wreak much more damage by twisting the translations from English
to suit his own ends.

As events proved, however, I could not have been in better hands. He was highly intelligent,
and he interpreted my statements with a fluency and accuracy which were astonishing. Only now
and again did he stumble and hesitate. This was when he was presented with an unfamiliar expression
or idiomatic sentence.

As the trial proceeded I gained an interesting side-light upon German methods and the mutual
distrust which exists. Ostensibly, and so I was led to believe, none of the Tribunal spoke
English with any fluency, but when, on one occasion, my interpreter was floored by a particularly
difficult colloquialism which I uttered, the Clerk of the Court came to his aid, and in a moment
turned the sentence properly to convey my exact meaning. This revelation placed me on my guard
more than ever, because it was brought home to me very convincingly that if my interpreter
tended to lean unduly towards me, he himself would be in serious jeopardy. Later, during the
trial, I discovered that the Clerk spoke and understood English as well as I did. It was a
telling illustration of the German practice of spying upon one another.

The first part of the trial was taken up with a repetition of the numerous questions I had
already answered times out of number, accompanied by a more searching cross-examination. As
the trial proceeded I saw that the authorities had collected every vestige of evidence from
every official who had questioned me and with whom I had held any conversation.

There was one exciting moment. An officer, evidently of high rank, entered the room. He looked
at me in a manner which I resented. With a sneering grin he enquired,

"Englander? Ha! Ha! Spion? What are you doing here?"

"I have come at the pressing invitation of four gentlemen with four points!" I suavely replied.

This sly allusion to the four soldiers with their bayonets lashed the interrupting officer
to fury. The whole court indulged in a wild and loud conversation. The chairman waved his arm
wildly. Before I grasped what had happened the soldiers closed round me, I was roughly turned
round, and to the accompaniment of liberal buffeting was hustled down the steps to my cell.

A few minutes later my interpreter came to me.

"Listen to me, English friend. You must not annoy the Court. I am trying to do all I can for
you. I do not think you guilty. But if you are--what do you call it--h'm----" and he snapped
his fingers perplexedly.

"Sarcastic?" I ventured.

"Yes! That's it. If you are sarcastic you make my work very hard!"

"But that officer had nothing to do with the Court, had he? Why did he interfere with a gratuitous
insult?"

"Ah! I see. You don't understand. They will do that. But you must remember the uniform!"

Further conversation was prevented by the reappearance of the soldiers. I was to be taken back
to the Court. I decided to take my interpreter's advice, and although I was frequently roused
intentionally, I bit my lip at the insults and choked down sharp retorts.

"Do you realise the nature of the charge and the gravity of your position?" asked the chairman,
after proceedings had been resumed. There was no trace of resentment at the recent incident
in his voice.

"I do perfectly."

"Then do you not think it somewhat strange that a man like you should be travelling to Berlin,
on the way to Warsaw, on the very day when war was declared against Russia? Is it not strange
also that you should be here after Great Britain has declared war?"

"When I set out for Berlin war had not been declared between Germany and Russia. On Monday
when I was arrested war had not been declared against Germany by Great Britain. I was arrested
on the flimsiest pretext and upon the word of a deliberately lying youth before war had been
declared with my country!"

"Ah! we shall see. You do not think it strange to be travelling through Germany at such a perilous
time with so much photographic apparatus?"

"No! I was not using it!"

"So you took no photographs in Germany?"

"No!" And the lie flew out in spite of myself. But I felt perfectly secure because I knew exactly
where the film, which I had exposed, was. It was beyond their reach!

"Then what is this?" And to my surprise he held up somewhat triumphantly the length of photographic
film from the camera with which I had taken the two farewell pictures of my family.

Up to this point I had successfully maintained a stiff upper lip and perfect composure. But
at the sight of the film carrying the parting pictures, my thoughts flew to home and its associations.
I broke down.

The court was jubilant. My spontaneous outburst of weakness at memories of home was misconstrued
into a recognition of the fact that I had been trapped.

Amid a silence which was soul-burning and which caused my voice, quivering at first but rapidly
regaining strength and its natural ring, to echo strangely through the room, I narrated the
history of that film. As I had expected it provoked a fearful wrangle. The fight was sharp
and hot while it lasted, but I thanked my lucky stars that I was not only well skilled in the
technics of photography but the chemistry side as well. The film in question was sufficient
for six exposures. Three had been made. In addition to the two pictures of my family's farewell
which corresponded to exposures two and three there was another picture, of archæological interest,
concerning a Sussex church, which was exposure number one. The rest of the film, which would
have corresponded to pictures 4, 5 and 6, had never been exposed.

The film which was held up had been developed by order of the court. The unexposed portion
had been passed through the development processes, and I experienced a thrill of joy. I saw
that I was now on solid ground.

"How did you expose this film?"

"In the usual way. The church was taken first, followed by the two pictures of my family. The
rest of the film has never been exposed."

"That is what you say. But the Court thinks differently. Listen, the two pictures of your family
were taken first and this of the church last--possibly, indeed probably, in Germany?"

"It was not. No photographer, even the tyro, would pass half a film through his camera before
making an exposure."

For ten minutes we fought tooth and nail over the way in which that film had been passed through
the camera. Then, seeing that they could not shake my evidence, and doubtless impressed by
my vehemence, they turned round completely to return to the attack.

"Well, granted, as you say, that the church was taken first, the second half of the film was
exposed in Germany. But you, seeing the danger of your position upon arrest, contrived to ruin
these last three pictures before the camera was taken away from you," snapped the Chairman.

In spite of myself I laughed.

"The second half of the film has never been exposed at all," I rejoined.

"How can you prove that?"

"Very easily. If I had ruined it by exposing it to the light as you suggest, the film upon
development would have come out black! But it is quite transparent!" I replied in triumph.

My retort floored the Court. We were dipping into matters about which they were completely
ignorant. There was a hurried whispering and then the Chairman commented:

"We'll soon prove that you are wrong!"

Proceedings were suspended. A clerk left the room to return a little later with a civilian
who proved to be a photographer in Wesel.

The problem was presented to him, but I saw at once that he knew nothing whatever about the
chemistry of photography. He was turned over to me for cross-examination, and within three
minutes I had so pulverised his statements that he was quite bewildered, and he left the Tribunal
with his photographic reputation sadly shattered.

Another witness was summoned, the Court being determined to get at the bottom of the problem
which had been raised. They certainly recognised the significance of my contention. This time
it was a military officer. He was examined by the Court, and then I was given the liberty to
cross-examine. My very first question was adequate to satisfy myself that he knew even less
about the subject than the previous witness. But he was nervously anxious not to betray his
ignorance. He had been called in as an expert and fervently desired to maintain this reputation.
He did so by acquiescing in every statement which I put to him concerning the action of light
upon nitrate of silver.

"Now," I asked emphatically, when I had completely caught him, "under these circumstances,
and according to what you have been explaining to the court, the second half of this film which
is transparent has never been exposed?"

"It has not."

His negative was so emphatic as to convince the Court. I had scored the crucial point and felt,
now my supreme difficulty had been subjugated so conclusively, that all was plain sailing.
It was only too evident that everything had turned upon that short length of unexposed film,
and I felt devoutly thankful to Providence that the light had not accidentally penetrated to
the sensitised surface. Had the unexposed section been black my fate would have been irrevocably
sealed.

Now I was asked to present my defence.

"Can you give us a complete and detailed narrative of your journey, say from the time you left
Brighton by the 5.10 p.m. train, on Saturday, August 1, up to your arrest."

I nodded affirmatively.

"Well, go ahead!"

Forthwith I launched out. I am naturally a rapid speaker and although my interpreter was confronted
with a gigantic task, he performed his work magnificently. Only once or twice did he falter
for a moment or two. But I was never interrupted nor asked to repeat a statement, so that the
thread of my story remained unbroken. For two hours and a half I spoke and I think the readiness
and clearness with which I proceeded must have impressed the Court. As I warmed to the subject
my head grew clearer and clearer. I knew I was fighting for my life, but the whole of the episodes
and scenes during the critical fifty odd hours passed through my mind as if delineated upon
a continuous cinematograph ribbon of film.

Midnight had passed before I had finished. The clerks of the Court had been steadily writing
during the whole period, and I knew that every word I had uttered had been faithfully recorded.
The Tribunal gave a sigh of relief as I intimated that I had nothing more to say. I was returned
to my cell, accompanied by my interpreter, whom I thanked for his assistance which I could
never repay. The Court might decide what it liked. I had put up a stiff fight and could do
no more. I thought I was to be left alone for the night. I was sorely in need of rest, and
the nervous tension under which I had been labouring now began to reveal itself. The reaction
commenced to set in. But there was no rest for me yet. Hardly had I sat down upon my plank
bed before I was re-summoned. By this time I was so weak that I could hardly stand. The perspiration
was pouring out all over my body. Indeed, I had to be assisted up the stairs.

To my utter surprise, when I entered the court, I found the record of my defence completed.
There it was in a pile of neatly inscribed sheets, numbered, and secured together. The Chairman
pushed the depositions before me.

"Sign here," and he indicated the foot of the last page.

I picked up the papers. They were in German. I returned them unsigned to the table.

"I decline!" I replied emphatically.

"But you must!"

"Well, I shall not. I don't understand German. I don't know what it's about!"

"It's your defence!"

"So it may be, but I have only your word for that. I decline to sign anything I do not understand.
It may be my death warrant!"

"If you don't sign I can tell you that we have means of making you do so," he continued somewhat
menacingly.

"I don't care. You can do as you like, but I am not going to sign those papers."

My determination provoked another animated discussion. Finally another pile was pushed towards
me, I could not curb a start. It was my defence written throughout in English, and had undoubtedly
been written simultaneously with the German version. I eyed the Clerk of the Court narrowly
and he returned the gaze just as keenly.

I ran through the depositions. They were perfect. Picking up the pen I signed my name without
hesitation. The signature was inspected, and then the original German papers were once more
presented with the invitation to sign. Again, I refused.

"But," expostulated the Chairman, "this is a literal German translation from the English which
you have signed!"

"So it may be, but the fact remains that I don't understand German," I retorted.

Another storm burst, but the Tribunal saw that it was impossible to shake my resolution. There
was another brief discussion. Then the Chairman turned to one of his colleagues, and in a despairing
voice asked, "Can you suggest a way out of the difficulty?"

"Yes!" I interrupted. "Give the interpreter the German and me the English copy. Let him translate
from the German and I will compare with the English version."

The offer was accepted, but now another hitch arose. The interpreter said he did not think
he could read off the translation from the German right away--at least, it would take time.

The Court was in a quandary. Seeing that this unexpected obstacle was likely to prejudice my
position I grabbed the English text and thrust the German copy into my interpreter's hands.
Telling him to go ahead I remarked that we could make something out of it. We wrestled with
the translation, although it was a slow and tedious operation, but at last we finished the
task. The German depositions being quite in order, and fairly translated I signed the papers
without further ado.

Now I thought the ordeal was over, but it was not. Picking up my signed depositions the Chairman
proceeded to re-examine me on my defence. He started from the moment I arrived at Flushing
and traced my movements, minute by minute, to Berlin, followed what I did in the capital between
1.30 a.m. the hour of my arrival and 1.13 p.m. the time of my departure. The manner in which
my movements had been dogged was astonishing and I recalled the individual whom I had noticed
shadowing me in the city. I saw at once that everything turned upon the instant nature of my
answers, so I replied to every question without the slightest hesitation and to such effect
that I never once contradicted myself.

Only one interval, and that of ten minutes in Berlin, threatened to engulf me. I could scarcely
fill up this gap. It happened to be one of those idle intervals which one can never explain
away very readily or satisfactorily. We disputed this ten minutes vigorously for about half
an hour, and by the time we had finished I do not think there was a single second for which
an account had not been rendered. My interview with the Consul also precipitated a storm, especially
as by this time I was becoming bored and felt dead-tired. Every question, however, sufficed
to prove that I was firmly considered to be a spy, and a dangerous one at that. But even the
re-examination came to a close at last.

Now my heart nearly jumped out of my body. The chairman, picking up the papers which had been
taken from my pocket, withdrew a little book. It was my diary, which was full of notes. The
moment I saw its familiar cover I cursed the inspiration which had prompted me to keep a diary.
I knew what it contained and I knew the cryptic notes therein would bring about further explosions
and protestations. I was not disappointed. Opening the little book the Chairman enquired innocently:

"What do you mean by things being 'lively' in Berlin?"

"It is a British expression," I retorted, my brain working rapidly to advance a conclusive
reply as I recalled the phrase which I had jotted down. "We term things 'lively' when say,
as in my case, one is first thrown out of a cab by a officer and shortly afterwards is flung
out of a restaurant!"

"Rather an unusual phrase to use when one recalls the political situation which prevailed in
the capital last Sunday, is it not?"

"Possibly from the German point of view, in the light of events."

"Then you had an enlightening chat with an officer? What was it all about? How did you open
conversation with him?"

"In the usual British manner. We just chatted about things in general."

"Especially of the war between Germany and England?"

"No! Because we were not at war!"

"But the officer advised you to return home! Why?"

"Because I could not get through to Warsaw!"

Other incidents of a spirited character raged about other phrases in the little book, but I
was on the alert. The Chairman evidently considered me to be a match for him in these wrangles
because he speedily put the diary down.

During the proceedings the Chairman made one frantic endeavour to trap me, and to prove that
I was more fully conversant with the language, as he confidently believed, than I felt disposed
to concede. Something was being read over to me by the Clerk upon which my thoughts were concentrated.
Suddenly the Chairman roared out a terrifying word in the vernacular. I never moved a hair.
I behaved just as if the Chairman had merely sneezed. My imperturbability appeared to convince
him that I really did not understand German, because no further reference was made to the fact.
Subsequently my interpreter told me that it was fortunate I did not understand German or I
would certainly have retorted to the Chairman's sudden interjection. I should not have been
human had I not done so. He refused to tell me what the word was or what it meant, so I was
never a whit the wiser.

At last I was told the proceedings with reference to myself were closed. I had been on the
rack for several hours, and when the gate of my cell clicked upon me for the last time that
eventful evening the morning hours were well advanced. As my interpreter left me to go to his
cell I enquired wearily, though with a trace of anxiety,

"When shall I know the result?"

He shrugged his shoulders.

"Perhaps to-morrow. Who knows?"

Personally I felt confident that a speedy release would be granted. It seemed to me impossible
to convict upon the evidence. But I was ignorant of German ways and military court procedure.
I was destined to receive a greater surprise than any which had yet befallen me.

CHAPTER V

WAITING TO BE SHOT

I shall never forget the night of Wednesday, August 5th. After the excitement of my trial which
had left me well nigh exhausted, I threw myself upon my wooden plank bed to recuperate with
a well-earned rest. But I had just made myself comfortable when a terrible uproar broke out.
The prison trembled and I half feared that it would tumble about our ears. The emergency bells
commenced to clang madly, while the building was torn with the most terrifying shrieks and howls.

Then the deafening sounds of explosions burst on our ears. At the time I wondered what was
the cause for this din, but the next morning I was told that during the night the French had
made an aerial raid upon Wesel. From within it sounded as if the whole Allied Army were pounding
the building. On top of the prison anti-aircraft guns were mounted and when they were discharged,
which was continuously and rapidly, they shook the building violently. Indeed an earthquake
could scarcely have set up a more agitated oscillation of the fabric.

Although the bells rang madly they were not answered. Every gaoler had left his post; gone
no one knew whither. The prisoners thought they had been deserted. They were haunted by the
terror of the prison being set in flames by the bombardment. The shrieks, cries, howls and
wails born of fright made my blood chill. Outside one could hear the muffled shouts of officers
giving orders, curses, and rapid firing by small arms. The whole place appeared to have been
afflicted with panic, as acute among the soldiers without as among the prisoners within. For
about an hour pandemonium reigned. Even to me, shut up as I was in a narrow cell, it was easy
to appreciate the terrible and far-reaching undermining effect which an aerial raid has upon
the Teuton mind.

Within the prison next morning it was possible to see the dire effects which the French aviators
had caused. A few cells below me was a prisoner. When I saw him on the Thursday morning I scarcely
recognised him. As a result of that hour of terror his hair had gone completely white! Other
prisoners were sadly bruised and scarred from frantically beating their hands and heads against
the doors of their cells in the desperate endeavour to get out. One poor wretch went raving mad.

Notwithstanding the ordeal of the trial, which had deprived me of my normal span of rest, I
was woke up at 5.30 to sweep out my cell. The strain of the prolonged inquisition of the previous
evening upon an enfeebled physique and brain now commenced to assert itself in an emphatic
manner. I had eaten nothing, not even a crust of the black bread, for fifty-four hours. Little
wonder that I could scarcely keep my feet. My gaoler observed my condition, but said nothing,
although he modified his customary boorish attitude towards myself.

When I had to make my daily visit to the yard to clean my utensils and to re-charge my water-jug
I staggered down the steps. I stepped out of the line in my turn and grasped the pump-handle.
But I was too weak to move it. A fellow-prisoner, recognising my plight, dashed forward to
work the pump. As he did one of the guard raised his rifle to club the man across the head,
but thinking better of his action, dropped his weapon, and permitted him to assist me.

How I crawled back to the cell I can scarcely remember. But I recall being spurred forward
with sundry jabs and prods by the rifle. Reaching my cell I sank down upon my bed.

How long I lay there it is impossible to say, but presently I became conscious of some one
standing beside me. I wearily sat up to see an officer. Had he brought me the verdict of the
Court? At the thought I rose to my feet. But no! He had nothing to do with the Tribunal. He
eyed me closely and then turning to the array of basins containing the untouched food and hunks
of black bread he remarked grimly:

"Do you know you will die if you don't eat your food?"

"I shall if I do, so what's the odds? Its smell is sufficient!"

"Do you know we can make you eat it?"

"You try, and I promise you that you will get it back in double quick time," I retorted significantly
and defiantly.

"Well, what would you like to eat?"

"Like to eat?" I repeated. "Why, I could do with a six-course dinner," was my sarcastic rejoinder,
feeling confident that he had merely asked the question to tantalise me. But seeing that he
really meant what he said I rattled off a complete menu, not forgetting the cup of black coffee
and an Egyptian cigarette. Feeling that the officer was in reality the prison doctor I grew
reckless and cynical.

"Well, I'm damned!" was his ejaculatory comment when I had finished. And he gave a loud, long
laugh.

My temper was rising, and I think my face must have betrayed my wish to strangle him, because
he continued, "You've got money, and you can buy one meal a day from outside if you like. I'll
grant you your gluttonous feed to-day--except the cigarette--seeing that you've eaten nothing
for three days. The cigarette is impossible: it is quite against the rules and regulations
of the prison. But to-morrow you'll have to rest content with a plate of meat and vegetables."

After he had left the cell I came to the conclusion that he had been merely having a huge joke
at my expense. But ten minutes later the gaoler entered bearing two big trays upon which were
arrayed the six courses. My eyes glittered with a wolfish greed, but I restrained myself. I
sat down to the meal and proceeded with it very leisurely, getting up now and again to pace
a little while to assist my weakened digestion. Indeed, by the time I had swallowed the last
morsel the gaoler entered with my tea. But that meal put new life into me. Afterwards I easily
subsisted upon the dinner from without; that was adequate for the twenty-four hours. I think
I paid sufficient for the privilege seeing that the six-course dinner and three subsequent
plates of meat and vegetables cost me twenty-six marks.

While I was denied all conversation with any of the prisoners I saw them at least once a day.
But if I did not see much of them I heard them frequently, especially when punishment was being
dealt out. Then the corridor would ring with dull thuds as blows by the rifle were administered,
followed by violent shrieking and wailing. The prison, at least the precincts of the Avenue
of the Damned, was ruled with a rod of iron, and various brutalities were practised and often
upon the slightest pretext. It is only necessary to relate one revolting episode which I witnessed
with my own eyes. On Friday morning, August 7, my cell-pacing was rudely interrupted by the
appearance of the gaoler who curtly ordered me to stand outside my cell door. I found that
all the cells--except one--along the corridor were wide open, and with their occupants similarly
standing at the entrances. Between each two cells stood a soldier with his rifle ready to jab
his bayonet to right or left at an instant's notice.

I wondered what was the matter, and was told that we were to witness and to profit from the
punishment which was to be dealt out to a prisoner who had broken one of the prison rules.
Lying in the centre of the corridor was the prone groaning form of a prisoner--a Frenchman,
I believe--who had been dragged from the cell before the open door of which no one was standing.
He was terribly weak and ill. Beside him stood four hulking, burly and heavily-booted Prussians.

At the word of command these four men rushed forward and commenced to kick the hapless prisoner
for all they were worth. The man shrieked, groaned and howled. We all shivered at the sight
and at his terrible cries. It sickened me. But the brutes never relented. The more he writhed
and the louder he howled the harder they kicked, face, body and head receiving the blows indiscriminately.
In a minute or so the man lay still upon the floor, literally kicked into insensibility. Whatever
any of the prisoners around may have felt none could extend assistance or interfere. Some strove
to shut out the terrible sight by covering their faces with their hands, but the bayonet point
speedily induced them to look as commanded. If any one of us had moved a step to proceed to
the poor wretch's aid we should certainly have been run through without the slightest compunction.

The unconscious prisoner was picked up and thrown into his cell, while we were likewise rushed
in upon the conclusion of the disgusting exhibition. Subsequently I enquired the reason for
such a ferocious outburst. Then I found that the prisoner, who was so ill that he really ought
to have been in hospital, had rung his bell, to summon the gaoler for permission to respond
to one of the calls of nature, but that he had been unable to contain himself until the dilatory
official arrived. I might mention that I had heard the bell ringing for fully ten minutes but
without avail. Although scrupulous cleanliness is demanded from each cell I know from experience
that the gaolers are ever reluctant to reply to a call of the emergency bell, and think nothing
of causing the hapless wretch terrible misery. It serves to bring home to the prisoner that
he is under confinement and not in a hotel to be waited on hand and foot. Such is the German
argument.

Next morning on our going into the yard the unfortunate prisoner who had been punished so diabolically
was not to be seen. More significant still his cell was empty, and the door was wide open.
I could only surmise that his worldly troubles were over. If so he would be officially declared
to have "died in prison!"

Favoured prisoners are granted a sack of straw to serve as a mattress. I had been denied this
luxury but secured it later through the good offices of the lieutenant who visited me on Tuesday
night. I was lucky enough to get new straw. Apparently the sacks are never renewed during a
prisoner's incarceration. He merely replenishes his stock when another cell becomes vacant,
irrespective of the period the straw therein has been in use. There is a mad rush for the empty
cell, and the prisoners fight like wolves among themselves for the possession of the derelict
straw, each bearing away triumphantly the small dole he has obtained from the struggle.

As may be supposed, under such conditions, the straw is not very inviting. It soon becomes
verminous, and this deplorable state of affairs becomes worse the longer the straw is in use.
In fact it becomes alive with lice. In one instance I saw a dropped wisp so thickly encrusted
with the parasites that it actually moved along the ground under the united action of the insects.

There is one inflexible law in German prisons. Under no pretence whatever must one prisoner
enter the cell of another while it is occupied. This regulation is not to prevent conversation
or communication between prisoners, but is for reasons which it is not necessary to describe.
When one recalls the utter depravity which prevails in German military centres the wisdom of
the ordination is obvious. The punishment is severe, the easiest being a spell of confinement
upon a black bread and water diet, but generally and preferably clubbing into insensibility.

A few cells above me was a prisoner who had been incarcerated for fifteen years. Whether the
whole of this time had been spent in Wesel or not I could not say, but when I came face to
face with him for the first time he gave me a severe shock. He was a walking skeleton. Every
bone in his body was visible, while his skin was the colour of faded parchment. He looked more
like an animated mummy than a human being. I stood beside him one day in the corridor, and
a bright ray of sunshine happened to fall across his face which was to me in profile. I started.
His face was so thin that the cheek and jawbones were limned distinctly against the light,
producing the effect of the X-ray photograph, while the sun shone clean through his cheeks.
You could have read a paper on the off side of his face by the light which came through.

This prisoner unnerved me. From morning to night, as he paced his cell, he groaned dismally:
not fitfully but continually. It was like the wail of a dog suffering excruciating agony, only
a thousand times more irritating and nerve-racking. Even during the night he groaned, apparently
in his sleep. Another day, when similarly paraded beside him, I asked if he would like a piece
of black bread. He made no reply, but turned such a wolfish look upon me that I hastily told
him to dive into my cell--No. 11. He watched the guard for a second, and while all backs were
turned he was gone and back beside me with the prize which he clutched in his hand. I have
never seen such a rapid movement. He slid into the cell like a shadow and as stealthily and
as quickly returned. This poor wretch doubtless enjoyed this unexpected addition to his quantity
of food, since he was apparently being given just enough to keep him alive, and no more. Otherwise
he could never have become so fearfully thin.

Once again I was to receive another shock from my mysterious prisoner who had acted as interpreter.
On Thursday he came to my cell in the uniform of a warder. Consequently I saw a good deal of
him, and, he being friendly, we had many brief snatches of surreptitious conversation. He was
highly intelligent, well-educated and sympathetic. I enquired as to how he happened to be in
our unsalubrious avenue. He informed me that he was awaiting the Kaiser's pardon. His offence
was not heinous. He had not responded to his country's call, upon mobilisation, with the celerity
which the officials declared he should have shown. As a punishment he was committed to the
cells for three days. Upon the expiration of this sentence he had been made under-gaoler. His
name was M----, and he told me he had a prosperous business outside Germany.

I was on the tip-toe of anticipation and suppressed excitement throughout Thursday and Friday,
hoping for news concerning the decision of the Tribunal. But when Friday passed without my
receiving any tidings I commenced to get fidgety and anxious. My feelings were not assuaged
by hearing volleys ring out every morning, followed by a death-like stillness. These reports
appeared to stifle the cries and groans of the prisoners a little while. To me the sounds presaged
serious news. Apparently there were several prisoners condemned for spying, and each volley,
I was told, signified the flight of one or more hapless souls. My spirits were not revived
by noticing the cells on either side of me rapidly emptying, while the little party which went
down into the yard in the morning began to dwindle in numbers very rapidly.

When the head-gaoler came round on Friday night I decided to tackle him. The suspense was becoming
intolerable. By this time he had become somewhat more friendly towards me, and if in the mood
would talk for a brief while.

"Were any other prisoners tried on Wednesday as spies?" I asked innocently.

"Jah! All day!"

"How many?"

"May-be twenty-three!"

"How many have been shot?"

"Ach! I cannot give prisoners news of that kind. But I can tell you that there are three left,
and you are one of them!"

I smiled to myself at the gaoler's rigid observance of the letter of German prison law to refuse
news to prisoners, yet giving the desired information in an indirect manner.

"When shall I hear the result of my trial?"

"Trial? You have not been tried yet!"

"What? You must be mistaken. I was tried on Wednesday night!"

"That wasn't the trial. That was the enquiry!"

"Then when will the trial come off?"

"You'll learn the result of the trial soon enough!" and he slammed the door to prevent further
discussion.

I was completely flabbergasted. I scratched my head and endeavoured to collect my thoughts.
Surely I could not have heard aright. Yet the man must know what he was talking about. The
more I pondered the more perplexed I became. Then the head-gaoler's stress upon the word "result!"
What did that portend? New fears crept into my mind. So when M----, the under-gaoler, came
round next morning, I badgered him, but he would say no more than that the trial had not yet
come off.

I was completely unnerved and now commenced to fear the worst. If the ordeal I experienced
on the Wednesday night was not the trial, then what on earth was it? I made up my mind to find
out. I rang the bell wildly and demanded to see the Commandant. He sent down word to say he
could not see me. But I was insistent, and at last, to avoid further worry, he conceded an
audience.

As I entered the office of the Commandant I was surprised to see him handling my little camera.
At my entrance he slipped it into his desk. He looked at me curiously, and then grunted,

"What do you want?"

"I wish to know when my trial is coming off. I thought I was tried last Wednesday night."

"No! That was the enquiry. We'll let you know the result of the trial pretty quickly," and
he grinned complacently, in which little pleasantry at my expense the officer of the guard
joined in.

"I don't want to know the result! I want to be there!"

"That is impossible. You gave all your evidence before the enquiry!"

"Then don't I appear at my trial?"

"Certainly not!"

I was completely non-plussed at this confirmation of the head-gaoler's statement. It was a
new way, to my mind, of meting out justice to a prisoner to deny him the right to appear at
his own trial. Truly the ways of Teuton jurisprudence or military court procedure were strange.

"Then when will my trial be held?" I asked, determined to glean some definite information.

"Ach! We cannot be bothered with a single case whilst mobilisation is going on. We are too
busy. You must wait," and with that he dismissed me.

"But surely you can give me some idea when it will be held," I persisted.

"Ach!" and he fumed somewhat. Seeing that I was not to be turned away without satisfaction
he continued, "Your trial will be on Monday. Get out!"

My reflections upon gaining my cell may be imagined. I could not resist dwelling upon the methods
of German justice, and I commenced to conjure up visions of the trial from which I was to be
absent, and to speculate upon the final result. What would it be? I saw the heavy disadvantage
under which I was labouring, and as may be supposed my thoughts turned to the blackest side
of things. I had another forty-eight hours of suspense in solitary confinement to bear.

To take my mind off the subject I set to work sketching an ornate design upon the prison wall
with a safety pin which I had picked up unobserved. In the perpetual twilight which prevailed
during the day in my cell I drew, or should it be engraved? a huge Union Jack intertwined with
the Royal Standard, surmounted by the crown of Great Britain and the Royal Arms. It occupied
considerable time, but I took a quaint delight in it. It successfully moved my thoughts from
my awkward position, although at nights I kept awake for hours on end turning over in my mind
my chances of acquittal and condemnation, more particularly the latter.

On Sunday I applied for permission to attend church, but after a long official discussion the
request was refused. The prison had no facilities for administering spiritual pabulum to a
British prisoner. This was a mere excuse, because several of the other prisoners attended church.
How I passed that day it is difficult to record. I paced my cell in a frenzy until I could
pace no longer. I completed my design on the wall, fumbled with my fingers, and dozed. But
the hours seemed to drag as if they were years. By now I was so overwrought that I declined
to send out for my dinner.

Monday was worse than Sunday. Throughout the day I was keyed to a high pitch of nervous expectancy.
I could scarcely keep a limb still. Every sound made me jump, and I kept my eyes glued to the
door, momentarily expecting to gain some tidings of how my trial had gone. When the gaoler
entered with my meals and stolidly declined to enter into conversation, I grew more and more
morose, until at last I can only compare my feelings with those of an animal trapped and at
bay, waiting and ready to land some final, fearful blow before meeting its fate.

Early in the evening of the Monday I was pacing my cell, a bundle of twitching nerves, when
the door opened to admit an officer. I almost sprang towards him. I was to learn the truth
at last. But he had not come from the Court.

"Do you feel hungry?" he asked, not unkindly.

"No." I answered feebly, my heart heavy within me. As a matter of fact I was so overwrought
with anxiety that I failed to feel the pangs of hunger.

"Well," he went on, "you can have what you like."

Thump went my heart again. The verdict had certainly gone against me. For what other reason
had I been offered what I liked to eat? It sounded ominous. It recalled our practice in Britain
where a condemned man is given his choice of viands on the morning of his execution. Most assuredly
I was going to be shot on the following morning, and daybreak was not far distant.

"I should certainly have something to eat if I were you," suggested the officer.

"Oh, very well," I replied resignedly, "I'll have a roll, butter, and a black coffee."

Directly the officer had gone I rang the emergency bell. M----, the under-gaoler, answered
it. With a tremendous effort I pulled myself together.

"So I'm going to be shot in the morning," I ventured, in the hope of drawing some comment.

"Ach! What? Lie down and keep quiet!" was his stolid retort.

"Look here! I want to write to my wife. Can you get me a pencil and a sheet of paper?"

"Impossible!"

"But I must write. She does not know where I am, and she will not know what has become of me!"

[*large gap]

German military prisons hold their secrets tightly.

But the time crept on and no guard appeared as I had been dreading. My drooping spirits revived
because the hour of the day when prisoners were customarily shot had passed. When I went out
into the yard on the Tuesday morning I chanced to meet the two Hindoos who had been arrested
with me. Then I realised that they were two out of the three remaining spies. I was the third.
They were in high spirits. When the guard was not looking they told me they had been acquitted
of the espionage charge, and expected soon to be taken as far as the frontier to be released.

I was the only one left, and I had not been told the result of my trial. Yet these two Hindoo
students who also had been before the Court on the Wednesday had learned the verdict in their
cases. But I had been denied all communication. I regained my cell in a kind of stupor. To
me it seemed that all was lost, and I fell into the depths of despair. When the friendly M----
came with my breakfast I pestered him with questions.

"Has the court been sitting?"

"Yes, all day Monday and all last night."

"Have you heard the result of my trial?"

"No."

"But the two Hindoos have been acquitted. Have I?"

"I cannot say," he replied sullenly.

The manner in which he avoided my eager look served to confirm my worst fears. I strove hard
to draw something further from him, but he briefly remarked that he was forbidden to speak
to prisoners.

I scarcely knew what to think. To me it was extraordinarily strange that the two Hindoos should
have heard of their acquittal and yet no one seemed to know anything about my case. No! There
was only one construction to be placed upon the situation. The Court had gone against me. My
thoughts throughout that day were most unenviable. I fretted and fumed, wondering when it would
all be over. My nerves started to twitch and jump, and within a short while I could not keep
a limb still. The fearful suspense was certainly driving me mad.

Later in the day an escort arrived, and to my surprise and intense relief the officer informed
me that I was not going to be shot. I took this for an acquittal, but I was speedily disillusioned.
I was taken to the office of the Commandant.

Reaching this official I was surprised to see among a stack of other baggage my own belongings.
The Commandant sharply ordered me to sort my things out, and to run through them to see that
everything was intact. I could have danced for joy. Like an excited child I fell upon the baggage,
disentangled my belongings, and ran through the contents. Two purses and a camera were missing.
I reported my loss, and there was a terrific hullaballoo. Who had touched a prisoner's goods?
The purses were brought in by the gaoler, who declared to me that, finding they contained money,
he had put them in his pocket for safety. I smiled at his ingenuous excuse. Now I worried about
the missing camera, but this defied discovery. Suddenly I remembered where I had seen it last
and kept quiet.

After I had gathered my luggage together I was marched back to my cell. Again my spirits drooped
upon being asked to give my English address. I saw it all! In my highly strung condition I
took this latest expression of Teuton methods to mean that my goods were to be sent home, but
that I would have to suffer some dire penalty. I nursed this dark imagining because the prison
treatment was not relaxed one iota. I passed a restless half-hour. I was heavy-eyed from want
of sleep, while my face had assumed a sickly, revolting pallor from rapidly collapsing health.

Again I was summoned to the Commandant's office. My goods were exactly as I had left them thirty
minutes before.

[*large gap]

I was busily strapping up my goods when the door opened to admit the Commandant, guard and
four other prisoners, whom I had not seen before. One tall, good-looking, sprucely dressed
fellow impressed me. He looked like a fellow-countryman. I went up to him.

"Are you English?" I asked.

"Holy smoke! What a treat to hear an Englishman. 'Put it there,'" and he extended his hand.
I proffered mine which he shook as if it were a pump handle. He with others had been arrested,
not as spies, and had been detained in Wesel Arresthaus. But being wealthy he had experienced
an easy time.

"What are they going to do with us?" I enquired.

"Why, haven't you heard? They're going to send us to a hotel and then it won't be long before
we strike good old England once more!"

[*large gap]

The party were in high spirits. But I was not so elated. I had every occasion to be suspicious
of German bluff and inwardly would only believe we were going home when I was safely out of
the country. My fellow-countryman, F---- K----, who is a well-known figure in City commercial
circles, was wildly excited, and was discussing his future arrangements very keenly.

An escort appeared to accompany us to the mysterious "hotel" about which the Commandant had
been talking so glibly. We swung out of the prison. Glancing at the clock I saw the time was
8.30 p.m. As the main gate clanged behind me I pulled myself together, a new man. My eight
days' solitary confinement had come to an end.

We tramped the street, the people taking but little notice of us. Presently we met a big party
of tourists advancing and also under escort. They proved to be the passengers of the pleasure
steamer Krimhilde, who had been detained. When they saw me, unkempt, ragged, blood-stained,
and dirty they immediately drew away. They took me for an excellent specimen of the genus hobo.
Within a few seconds however they learned something about my experiences and became very chummy.
F---- K---- communicated the fact that we were bound for an hotel, and the spirits of one and
all rose.

The escort who had accompanied us from the prison here handed us over to that accompanying
the tourists and we marched to the station. A train was waiting and we stepped aboard at nine
o'clock. There appeared to be as many soldiers as passengers. The members of my party confidently
thought the train was bound for a point near the frontier or a restricted area by the seashore.
But I was not to be lulled into a false sense of security. I questioned one of the officers
and ascertained our destination. Returning to the party I laughingly asked, "Do you know for
what hotel we're bound?"

"No! What is it? Where is it?" came the eager request.

"The military camp at Sennelager!"

PRISON TWO--SENNELAGER

THE BLACK HOLE OF GERMANY

CHAPTER VI

OUR "LUXURIOUS HOTEL"

Although it was 9.25 Tuesday evening when we boarded the train in Wesel station, en route for
the "luxurious hotel where we were to receive every kindness consistent with the noblest traditions
of German honour," there did not appear to be any anxiety to part with our company. There were
about sixty of us all told, and we were shepherded with as pronounced a display of German military
pomp and circumstance as would have been manifested if the All-Highest himself, had been travelling.
Wesel station swarmed with officers and men who apparently had nothing else to do but to perambulate
the platforms, the officers swaggering with typical Teuton arrogance, and the humble soldiers
clattering to and fro in utter servility, merely emphasising their existence by making plenty
of noise with their cumbrous boots and rifles.

At midnight the train started. The majority of my companions were the male passengers of military
age who had been detained from the pleasure steamer Krimhilde while travelling up the Rhine.
The military authorities in charge of the train received bulky sheafs of papers, each of which
related to one passenger, and was packed with the most minute details. I am afraid my record
must have been somewhat imposing, inasmuch as I commanded considerable and unappreciated attention
from the military, while my fellow prisoners regarded me with a keen curiosity.

I must admit that my personal appearance was far from being attractive. I looked even more
ragged, un-cared for, and ill than I was when facing my accusers at the midnight trial some
days before. I was shirtless, collarless, and tie-less. My hair was matted and clotted with
congealed blood freely mixed with dirt. My face, in addition to a week's growth of hair, was
smeared with black marks which I had not been able to remove owing to my inability to get soap
to wash myself with. My frock-coat and trousers, frayed at the bottoms, were sadly soiled and
contrasted strangely with the fancy pattern tops of my patent boots. In fact, I admitted to
the party, that "I must have looked a 'knut' of the finest type!" All things considered I am
not surprised that at first I was shunned by one and all, both compatriots and the military guards.

Although the distance from Wesel to Paderborn--Sennelager is three miles outside the latter
town--is only about 95 miles as the crow flies, the railway takes a somewhat circuitous route.
Owing to the extensive movement of the troops we suffered considerable delay, the result being
that we did not reach our destination until about mid-day on the Wednesday, the journey having
occupied nearly twelve hours. The heat was unbearable, and confinement within the carriages,
the windows of which were kept sedulously closed by order of the military, thus rendering the
atmosphere within stifling, speedily commenced to affect some of the passengers. Each compartment
carried seven prisoners, and the eighth seat, one of the windows beside the door, was occupied
by a soldier--the guard of the compartment--complete with loaded rifle and fixed bayonet.

Sleep was out of the question, but this did not affect us seriously. We were somewhat excited,
and spent the hours of the night in conversation and the exchange of experiences. In our party
was an English gentleman, Mr. K----,[3] who held an important position in a large business
house in one of the cities on the Rhine. Somehow he was attracted to me, moved, no doubt by
my general appearance, and because I was now showing visible signs of my incarceration and
experiences in Wesel prison. I may say that to Mr. K---- I undoubtedly owe my life, and I never
can express my thanks sufficiently for his unremitting attention and kindness during my subsequent
illness, as I narrate in due course. Moreover, during his sojourn among us he was a tower of
strength, having long been resident in the country, and thoroughly conversant with the language
and manners of the Germans.

    [Footnote 3: The names and occupations of fellow-prisoners who
    are still in captivity are purposely disguised, because if the
    German authorities should happen to read this narrative, and be
    enabled to identify any of my compatriots who participated in
    any of the incidents recorded, they would receive treatment
    which would be decidedly detrimental to their welfare.--H.C.M.]

It was during this tedious train journey that he related the experiences of the passengers
upon the unfortunate steamer Krimhilde. Many of the Englishmen who happened to be upon this
boat had been held up for a week in various towns, owing to the stress of mobilisation. But
at last permission was given by the authorities to proceed, and the delayed travellers were
assured of an uninterrupted journey to England. Unfortunately the passage down the Rhine was
impeded by fog, and this delay proved fatal. When it was possible to resume the journey, and
while the steamer was making a good pace, a river patrol boat dashed up and ordered the captain
of the steamer to stop, the reason being that no intimation had been received of the vessel's
coming.

The captain protested, but at the point of the revolver he was compelled to turn round and
return to the place which he had left only a few hours previously. The re-arrival of the Krimhilde
at this point aroused considerable interest, and the authorities demanded the reason. The captain
explained, but receiving a re-assurance that everything was in order and as originally expressed,
he was free to travel down the river.

Again the journey was attempted and all went well until the boat was approaching Wesel. Then
another patrol boat fussed up, the officer of which boarded the steamer. Again the captain
presented his permit and expressed his determination to go ahead.

"We don't know anything about that," returned the boarding officer, referring to the permit.
"My orders are to stop every vessel carrying Englishmen!"

The boarding-officer turned and ordered all the male prisoners to separate themselves from
the ladies. Passports were produced upon demand and closely scrutinised. Then the officer,
stepping back a few paces, beckoned the nearest man. His name was demanded to identify the
passport and then a brief hurried cross-examination proceeded, culminating in the question:

"How old are you?"

"Thirty-eight!"

"Step this side!" retorted the officer, who proceeded to examine the succeeding passenger,
to whom the self-same questions were repeated, the final interrogation being the passenger's age.

"Fifty-seven!" came the response.

The officer scanned the passport and finding the answer to be correct remarked, "Step over
there!" indicating his left.

By the time the officer had completed his interrogations the male passengers were divided into
two groups. Meanwhile the women and children had gathered round, following the proceedings,
which appeared inexplicable to them, with a strange silence and a fearful dread.

"All you men of military age," continued the officer speaking to the group of younger-looking
men, "are to go ashore. You will be detained as prisoners of war. You have ten minutes to pack
your trunks and to say 'Good-bye!' So hurry up!"

At this intelligence a fearful hubbub broke out. The women and children who were to be separated
from their husbands, fathers, and relatives gave way to lamentation and hysterical raving.
While the men packed their trunks under official supervision their wives and children clung
to them desperately. But the men realising that war is war, accepted the situation philosophically,
even cheerfully. They were buoyed up by the official assurance that their detention was merely
a matter of form, and that they would soon be released and free to proceed to their homes.

I may say that this is a favourite ruse followed by the Germans in all the camps in which I
was interned, and I discovered that it was general throughout the country. It is always expressed
whenever the Teutons see trouble brewing. Undoubtedly it is practised to keep the prisoners
keyed up to a feverish pitch of hopefulness. Certainly it succeeded for a time, although such
announcements at a later date, when we had seen through the subterfuge, were received with
ironical cheering and jeers.

At such a sudden and summary cleavage between families many distressing and pathetic scenes
were witnessed. On board there happened to be a wealthy young member of the Russian nobility--Prince
L----. He was travelling with his sister and friends and was far from well.

The sister approached the officer and pleaded hard for her brother's release. It was refused.
Grief-stricken the Princess fell on her knees and with tears streaming down her cheeks, kissed
the officer's boots and offered all her jewels--they must have been worth a considerable amount
of money--which she hastily tore off and held in her outstretched hands.

For the moment even the officer was somewhat moved. Then in a quiet, determined voice he remarked,

"I am exceedingly sorry, but I cannot grant your request. I am merely acting on my orders.
But I can assure you that your brother in common with all the others here, will be looked after.
Not a hair of their heads shall be injured. They will all be treated according to the best
and noblest traditions of German honour,[4] and the regulations which have been drawn up among
the Powers concerning the treatment of prisoners of war." With these words the Prince was cast
aside with the others.

    [Footnote 4: The traditions of German honour were dinned into
    our ears at every turn.--H.C.M.]

In another instance the wife and child of an Englishman, Mr. C----, refused to be parted. The
wife clung round her husband's neck while the child held to his coat. She expressed her determination
to go with her husband, no matter what might happen, and was on the verge of hysterics. Every
one was moved and strove to coax her into quietness, while an officer even accompanied her
off the boat with her husband. On the quay efforts were repeated to placate her and to induce
her to allow her husband to proceed. But all in vain. At last, drawing the lady forcibly away,
though with no greater force than was necessary, the officer himself attempted to console her.

"Do not worry. I will do all I can for you, and will see you do not want during the time your
husband is interned."

What became of Mrs. C---- and her child just then I do not know, because at that moment the
boat sheered off with a sorrowful and crying list of passengers who waved frantic farewells.
Alas! I fear that in some instances that was the last occasion upon which husband and wife
ever saw one another, and when children were parted from "daddy" for life.

Such was the story related by Mr. K----. After the boat had left, the detained prisoners, he
explained, were formed up on the quay, and surrounded by an imposing guard with fixed bayonets,
were marched off. It was a sad party. All that was dearest in life to them had been torn away
at a few minutes' notice through the short-sightedness of Prussian militarism or the desire
of the Road-hog of Europe to display his officialism and the authority he had enjoyed for but
a few days. Many of these tourists, as one might naturally expect, were sorely worried by the
thoughts as to what would become of their loved ones upon their arrival in England, many without
money or friends to receive them. This was the discussion that occupied their minds when they
were marching towards Wesel Station, and when the tiny party, of which I was one, being marched
from Wesel prison, met them in the street, as already related.

As for ourselves we were soon destined to taste the pleasures of the best traditions of German
honour. No provisions of any kind whatever had been placed on the train for our requirements.
What was more we were denied the opportunity to purchase any food at any station where we happened
to stop. At one point a number of girls pressed round the carriages offering glasses of milk
at 20 pfennigs. As we were all famished and parched there was a brisk trade. But the moment
the officers saw what was happening they rushed forward and drove the girls back by force of arms.

So far as our compartment was concerned we were more fortunate than many of our colleagues.
Our soldier warden was by no means a bad fellow at heart. In his pack he carried his daily
ration--two thick hunks of black bread. He took this out and instantly proffered one hunk to
us, which we gladly accepted and divided among ourselves.

Those being the early days of the war the German soldier was a universal favourite among the
civilians. Directly one was espied he became a magnet. The women, girls and elder men rushed
forward and wildly thrust all sorts of comestibles into his hands. Unhappily we did not stop
at many stations; our train displayed a galling preference for lonely signal posts, so that
the chances of our guard receiving many such gifts were distinctly limited. But at one station
he did receive an armful of brödchen--tiny loaves--which he divided amongst us subsequently
with the greatest camaraderie.

But his comrades in other compartments were not so well-disposed. With true Prussian fiendishness
they refused to permit their prisoners to buy anything for themselves, and to drive them to
exasperation and to make them feel their position, the guards would ostentatiously devour their
own meals and gifts. While we did not really receive sufficient to stay us, still our guard
did his best for us, an act which we appreciated and reciprocated by making a collection on
his behalf. When we proffered this slight recognition of his courtesy and sympathetic feeling
he declined to accept it. [*gap] He was one of the very few well-disposed Germans I ever met.

Upon arriving at Sennelager Station we were unceremoniously bundled out of the train. Those
who had trunks and bags were roughly bidden to shoulder them and to fall in for the march to
the camp. The noon heat was terrible. The sun poured down unmercifully, and after twelve hours'
confinement in the stuffy railway carriages few could stretch their limbs. But the military
guards set the marching pace and we had to keep to it. If we lagged we were prodded into activity
by means of the rifle.

Sennelager camp lies upon a plateau overlooking the railway, and it is approached by a winding
road. The acclivity although somewhat steep is not long, but we, famished and worn from hunger,
thirst, and lack of sleep, found the struggle with the sand into which our feet sank over our
ankles, almost insuperable. Those burdened with baggage soon showed signs of distress. Many
were now carrying a parcel for the first time in their lives and the ordeal completely broke
them up. Prince L---- had a heavy bag, and before he had gone far the soft skin of one hand
had been completely chafed away, leaving a gaping, bleeding wound. To make matters worse the
hot sand was drifting sulkily and clogging his wound set up untold agony.

Prince L---- made a representation to the officer-in-charge, showing his bleeding hand, but
he was received with a mocking smirk and a curt command to "Move on!" The weaker burdened prisoners
lagged, but the bayonet revived them. One or two gave out completely, but others, such as myself,
who were not encumbered, extended a helping hand, half-carrying them up the hill.

Reaching the camp the Commanding Officer, a friendly old General whose name I never heard,
hurried up.

"What's the meaning of this?" he blurted out in amazement.

"Prisoners of war for internment!" replied our officer-in-charge.

"But I don't know anything about them. I have received no instructions. There is no accommodation
for them here!" protested the General.

Our officer produced his imposing sheaf of papers and the two disappeared into the office.

The feelings of the party at this intelligence may be conceived. The majority dropped, in a
state of semi-collapse in the sand, their belongings strewn around them, utter dejection written
on their faces.

After what I had experienced at Wesel I was prepared for anything. I had already learned the
futility of giving way. I felt no inclination to sit or lie in the blistering sand. I caught
sight of a stretch of inviting turf, made my way to it, and threw myself down upon it. But
I was not to enjoy the luxury of Nature's couch. A soldier came bustling up and before I grasped
his intentions I was hustled off, with the intimation that if I wanted to lie down I must do
so in the sand.

The fact that no arrangements had been made for our reception was only too obvious. It was
about noon when the two officers disappeared into the official building to discuss the papers
referring to our arrival, and it was six in the evening before they had come to any decision.
Throughout these six hours we were left lying on the scorching sand in the broiling sun without
a bite of food. Seeing that many of us had eaten little or nothing since the early evening
of the previous day it is not surprising that the greater part were knocked up. One or two
of us caught sight of the canteen provided for the convenience of recruits, and succeeded in
getting a few mouthfuls, but they were not worth consideration. I myself whiled away the time
by enjoying a wash at the pump and giving myself the luxury of a shave. I bought a small cake
of coarse soap and never enjoyed an ablution so keenly as that al fresco wash, shave, shampoo,
and brush-up at Sennelager. When I came back thoroughly refreshed I had changed my appearance
so completely that I was scarcely recognised. Even the soldiers looked at me twice to make
sure I was the correct man.

Later a doctor appeared upon the scene. His name was Dr. Ascher, and as events proved he was
the only friend we ever had in the camp. He enquired if any one felt ill. Needless to say a
goodly number, suffering from hunger, thirst and fatigue, responded to his enquiry. Realising
the reason for their unfortunate plight he bustled up to the Commanding Officer and emphasised
the urgent necessity to give us a meal. But he was not entirely successful. Then he inspected
us one by one, giving a cheering word here, and cracking a friendly joke there. The hand of
Prince L---- received instant attention, while other slight injuries were also sympathetically
treated. The hearts of one and all went out to this ministering angel, to whose work and indefatigable
efforts on our behalf I refer in a subsequent chapter.

At last we were ordered to the barracks near by. It was a large masonry building, each room
being provided with beds and straw upon the floor. Subsequently, however, we were moved to
less comfortable quarters where there were three buildings in one, but subdivided by thick
masonry walls, thereby preventing all intercommunication. Here our sleeping accommodation comprised
bunks, disposed in two tiers, made of wood and with a sack as a mattress.

Whether it is my natural disposition or ancestral blood I do not know, but it has ever been
my practice in life to emulate Mark Tapley and to see the humorous aspect of the most depressing
situation. The "luxurious hotel," to which we were consigned according "to the best and most
noble traditions of German honour," moved me to unrestrained mirth, when once I had taken in
our surroundings. My levity fell like a cold water douche upon my companions, while the guards
frowned menacingly. But to me it was impossible to refrain from an outburst of merriment. It
was quite in accordance with German promises, which are composed of the two ingredients--uncompromising
bluff and unabashed deliberate lying, leavened with a sprinkling of disarming suavity. I had
tasted this characteristic at Wesel and frankly was not a bit surprised at anything which loomed
up, always resolving at all hazards to make the best of an uncomfortable position.

Upon turning into our unattractive suite our first proceeding was to elect a Captain of our
barrack. Selection fell upon Mr. K----, as he was an ideal intermediary, being fluent in the
language. We turned in, the majority being too tired to growl at their lot, but there was precious
little sleep. During the day, the heat at Sennelager in the summer is intolerable, but during
the night it is freezing. Our arrival not having been anticipated, we had nothing with which
to keep ourselves warm. A few days passed before the luxury of a blanket was bestowed upon us.

The morning after our arrival we drew up an imposing list of complaints for which we demanded
immediate redress. We also expressed in detail our requirements, which we requested to be fulfilled
forthwith. Then we decided to apportion this part of the camp for cricket, that for general
recreation and so forth. By the time we had completed our intentions, all of which were carried
unanimously, several sheets of foolscap had been filled, or rather would have been filled had
we been possessed of any paper. This duty completed we set out upon an exploring expedition,
intending to inspect all corners of the camp. But if we thought we were going to wander whither
we pleased we were soon disillusioned. We were huddled in one corner and our boundaries, although
undefined in the concrete were substantial in the abstract, being imaginary lines run between
sentries standing with loaded rifles and fixed bayonets.

One and all wondered how we should be able to pass away the time. We could neither write nor
read owing to a complete lack of facilities. Idleness would surely drive us crazy. Our recreations
were severely limited, depending upon our own ingenuity. For the first few days we could do
nothing beyond promenading, discussing the war and our situation. These two subjects were speedily
worn thread-bare since we knew nothing about the first topic and were only able to speculate
vaguely about the second. The idea of being made to work never entered our heads for a moment.
Were we not civilian prisoners of war: the victims of circumstances under the shield of the
best traditions of German honour?

But we were not the first arrivals at Sennelager. We were preceded by a few hours by a party
of French soldiers--captives of war. They were extremely sullen. Travel and battle-stained
they crouched and stretched themselves upon the ground. Whence they came I was never able to
discover. One or two of our party who were versed in the French tongue endeavoured to draw
them into conversation, but to no purpose. They either replied in vague monosyllables or deliberately
ignored the questions. There is no doubt the poor fellows felt their early capture very sorely,
and had accordingly sunk into the depths of despair. Sulky and morose they glared fiercely
upon any approach, and when they did anything it was with an ill-grace impossible to describe.
Indeed, they were so downcast that they refused to pay the slightest attention to their personal
appearance, which accentuated their forbidding aspect.

Killing time as best we could, doing nothing soon began to reveal its ill-effects upon those
who, like myself, had always led an active life. I approached Dr. Ascher, explained that idleness
would drive me mad, and petitioned him to permit me to work in the hospital. I did not care
what the job was so long as it effectively kept me employed. He sympathised with my suggestion
and hurried off to the Commanding Officer. But he came back shaking his head negatively. The
authorities would not entertain the proposal for an instant.

Suddenly we were paraded. Rakes and brooms were served out to every man and we were curtly
ordered to sweep the roads. We buckled into this task. But the dust was thick and the day was
hot. Soon we were all perspiring freely. But we were not permitted to rest. Over us was placed
a bull-headed, fierce-looking Prussian soldier armed with a murderous looking whip. I should
think he had been an animal trainer before being mobilised from the manner in which he cracked
that whip. When he saw any one taking a breather up he came, glaring menacingly and cracking
the whip with the ferocity of a lion-tamer. We evinced a quaint respect for that whip, and
I firmly believe that our guardian inwardly fretted and fumed because he was denied the opportunity
to lay it across our backs. Several of us nearly got it, however.

We were sweeping away merrily when, suddenly, we gave way to a wild outburst of mirth. One
couldn't sweep for laughing. The guards around us looked on in wonder.

"Christopher! boys!" I at last blurted out, "We were talking just now about recreation, and
were emphatic about what we were, and were not, going to do. I reckon this wants a lot of beating
for recreation!" The oddity of the situation so tickled us that we had to collapse from laughter.

But a warning shout brought us to our feet. Mr. Mobilised Lion Tamer was bearing down upon
us waving his whip. He lashed out. We saw it coming and dodged. By the time the thong struck
the road we were brushing up dense clouds of dust, singing, whistling, and roaring the words,
"Britons never shall be slaves!"

The dust screen saved us. It was so efficient that the furious guardian with the whip had to
beat a hurried retreat.

One morning we were paraded at six o'clock as usual. The adjutant, another fierce-visaged Prussian,
astride his horse, faced us. With assumed majesty he roared out an order. The guards closed
in. What was going to happen now?

Amid a tense silence he shouted spluttering with rage:--

"You damned English swine! Yes! You English dogs! You are the cause of this war, and you will
have to suffer for it. We could punish you severely. But that is not the German way. We could
make you work. But the traditions of German honour forbid. Your Government has gouged out the
eyes of German prisoners who have had the misfortune to fall into their hands. We don't propose
to take those measures. While your Government has stopped at nothing we are going to show you
how Germany fulfils the traditions of her honour, and respects the laws to which all civilised
nations have subscribed. But remember! We are going to bring England to her knees. Aren't we, men?"

"Ja! Ja!" (Yes! Yes!) came the wild singing reply from the excited guards.

CHAPTER VII

BREAKING US IN AT SENNELAGER

No doubt the pompous adjutant plumed himself upon his tirade and the impression it had created
among the guards. But at the time it was as so much Greek to us. We wondered what it all meant
and what had prompted his strange speech.

It was not until my return home that I was able to appreciate the reason. But the bitterness
with which he delivered his harangue certainly proved that he believed the stories which had
evidently been sedulously circulated throughout Germany relative to the alleged mal-treatment
and torture of German military prisoners by the British. Unfortunately, no steps apparently
were taken to disprove these deliberate lying statements for which we had to pay the penalty.

But I was not reassured by the Adjutant's honeyed words concerning the example which Germany
proposed to set to the British. I guessed that something which would not redound to our welfare
and comfort was in the air. It is the German method to preach one thing and to practise something
diametrically opposite. I had already learned this. Nor was I destined to be mistaken in my
surmise.

A little later there was another parade. The officer roared,

"All those who are engineers step out!"

A number, including myself, although absolutely ignorant of the craft, stepped out, because
here was the opportunity to secure some form of active employment.

"You are engineers?" he shouted.

We nodded assent.

"Can you build a drain?"

Again we nodded affirmatively.

We were marshalled, and one of us, Mr. C----, who was a civil engineer, was selected as leader.
We were marched off and set to work to dig a drain for the camp.

We built that drain, but it was necessity's labour lost. We were not provided with proper drain
pipes but made an open conduit. We had to go to the quarry to get the stone, which we broke
into small pieces, and these were set out in concave form at the bottom of the trench we had
excavated after the manner in which cobble stones are laid. I believe it was considered to
be an excellent piece of work, but unfortunately it was of little use. The first wind and rain
that came along dumped the sand into it with the result that it became filled up.

A day or two later there was another parade. Once more the officer stood before us with a long
sheet of paper in his hand.

"All those who can do wire-pulling stand out!"

Those who knew about what he was talking advanced to form a little group.

"All those who are gardeners stand out!"

More men advanced and another group resulted.

The officer went right through his list calling out a long string of trades and callings. The
result was our sub-division into a number of small units, each capable of fulfilling some task.
A sentry was appointed to each group and we were hurried off to the particular toil for which
we considered ourselves to be fitted, and about which I will say more later.

If the accommodation at the "luxurious hotel" was wretched the routine and cuisine were worse.
We were under military discipline as it is practised in Prussia, and it was enforced with the
utmost rigour. We were not permitted to speak to an officer under any pretext whatever. Any
complaints or requests had to be carried to the authorities through our "Captain," who was
also the officially recognised interpreter. If we met an officer we were commanded to raise
our hats.

[*gap]

The day started at 6.0 a.m., with parade. If we desired to have a wash and shave we had to
be astir an hour earlier because otherwise we were not allowed to perform those essential duties
until late in the evening. After parade we had breakfast--a basin of lukewarm "coffee" made
from acorns roasted and ground, which we had to fetch, and with which neither milk nor sugar
was served.

At seven o'clock we started the day's work, which was continued without respite until mid-day.
At least that was the official order, but one or two of the guards were far from being harsh
towards us. In the middle of the morning, as in our case, the warder, after a wary look round,
would ask if we would like to rest for ten minutes to snatch something to eat if we had it.
Needless to say the slight respite was greatly appreciated. But it was by no means the general
practice. One or two of the sentries were so deeply incensed against England that they took
the opportunity to bait and badger the men in their charge without mercy. They kept the prisoners
under them going hard without a break or pause.

At noon we returned to barracks for dinner. Arming ourselves with our basins we scrambled down
to the cook-house for our rations. It was red-cabbage soup, and it was never varied. But it
was the strangest soup I have ever seen made or tasted, more particularly during the early days.

There was a big cauldron with boiling water. Alongside was a table on which the cabbages were
cut up. A handful of cabbage was picked up and dumped into the cauldron. Directly it hit the
water the cabbage was considered to be cooked and was served out. Consequently the meal comprised
merely a basin of sloshy boiling water in which floated some shreds of uncooked red cabbage.
Sometimes the first batch of men succeeded in finding the cabbage warmed through: it had been
left in the water for a few seconds. But the last batch invariably fared badly. The cooks realising
that there would be insufficient to go round forthwith dumped in two or three buckets of cold
water to eke it out. Sometimes, but on very rare occasions, a little potato, and perhaps a
bone which had once been associated with meat, would be found in the basin lurking under a
piece of cabbage leaf. Ultimately some French and Belgians were put in charge of the kitchen.
Then there was a slight improvement. The cabbage was generally well-cooked and the soup was
hot. But although these cooks did their best, it did not amount to much, for the simple reason
that the authorities would not permit any further ingredients whatever.

At 2.0 p.m., there was another parade, followed by a return to work which was continued without
intermission for another four hours. At six in the evening we returned to barracks for a third
parade after which we were dismissed for tea. This was another far from appetising meal, merely
constituting a repetition of the breakfast ration--a basin of lukewarm acorn coffee without
milk or sugar. In addition to the foregoing we were served with a portion of a loaf of black
bread on alternate mornings. This supply, if you got it, had to last six meals.

It will be realised that our wardens were far from being disposed to feed us up. We grumbled
against the rations, their monotony and insufficiency, but we received no amelioration of our
condition. In fact, our petitions were ignored. We were told that if we wanted more or greater
variety of food we must buy it from the canteen. We had to act upon this recommendation just
to keep ourselves alive.

The canteen was run by the most unprincipled scoundrel I have ever met. He was a civilian speculator
who saw the chance to fatten on the British prisoners. He fleeced us in two ways. Not only
were his prices extortionate, but he gave a ridiculous exchange for British currency, especially
gold. After considerable persuasion and deliberation he would change a half sovereign for 7½
marks--7s. 6d. We complained but could get no redress for such a depreciation. Other coins
were in proportion.

Brödchen in limited quantities were brought in every day. We could buy these at 5 pfennigs--one
halfpenny--apiece, or in the early days three for 10 pfennigs. The latter practice was abandoned
when the pinch of flour shortage commenced to be felt. The brödchen came in during the night,
and owing to the totally inadequate quantity purchased to meet our needs, one had to be about
early to secure a supply. I, with others, have often been up at four o'clock in the morning,
lounging around the canteen, so as to be among the first to be served when it opened at five
o'clock. The scenes which were enacted around the canteen in the early morning are indescribable.
Civilians strangely clad, and later badly wounded, limping soldiers, sickly and white, waited
patiently, no matter what the weather, to buy a little bread.

The necessity to depend upon the canteen for a sufficiency of food to keep us alive hit those
who were blessed with little money extremely hard. There was one man--he said he was an Englishman,
although I have my doubts about it--who was brought to the camp. He had not a farthing in his
pocket. He said his home was near the frontier, and that he often slipped across it for a ride
on his bicycle. He related that he had been caught during one of these excursions, to find
himself ultimately at Sennelager. That man was a mystery. He was kept alive by the others more
or less, and he accompanied us to various prisons. But subsequently he obtained his papers
in a mysterious manner, and was seen no more. He vanished in the darkness as it were, and the
German guards were not disposed to talk about him. It has always been our suspicion that he
was sent among us with an ulterior motive which it is impossible to divine.

Those who could not purchase supplies from the canteen were assisted by their more fortunate
comrades. The lucky ones divided their purchases so that the unfortunate individuals might
not feel their position or suffer want. This practice was tangibly assisted by one or two prisoners
who were well supplied with money, especially Prince L----, who became the general favourite
of the camp from his fellow-feeling, camaraderie, sympathy, and sportsmanship.

One morning he came across a poor prisoner who looked very ill. He appeared to be half starved,
as indeed he was from his inability to buy any food. After a short conversation the Prince
slipped five sovereigns into the man's hand and bolted before he could be thanked. Unfortunately
this poor fellow is still in prison, but he has never forgotten the Prince's kindness.

The day after our arrival at Sennelager the Prince came to me and drew my attention to my shirtless
condition. I explained the reason for its disappearance and that I could not get another as
the authorities were still holding my heavy baggage containing further supplies. He said nothing
as he went away, but a quarter of an hour later he returned with a new garment from his own
kit which he forced me to accept. Another day, the party with which I was working were coming
in to the evening meal. He hailed us and invited one and all to accompany him to the canteen
to have a chop with him. That was the finest meal I had tasted since my feast in Wesel prison.
Some time later Prince L---- succeeded in getting home. Although he was heartily congratulated
upon his good fortune, his absence was sorely felt by those whom he was in the habit of befriending.

At nine o'clock we had to be in bed. Some of the more untameable spirits rebelled at the order
to extinguish lights at this hour, but in our barrack Captain K---- rigidly insisted that the
regulation should be observed. He feared the antagonism of the officers might be aroused, in
which event we should be made to suffer for our fractiousness. The disputes between the prisoners
and the sentries over the lights were interminable. The men would be ordered to extinguish
their oil lamp. If they did not respond with sufficient alacrity the sentry cluttered up and
put it out himself. At a later date, however, the hour for "lights out" was extended to 10 p.m.

The German nation is ever held up as the world's apostle of hygiene and sanitary science. However
true this may be in regard to civic and rural life it certainly does not apply to prison and
military existence. We were occupying the quarters normally assigned to recruits. Yet Sennelager
was absolutely devoid of the most primitive features of a safe sanitary system. There was an
open cesspool within a stone's throw of the barracks, the stench from which, during the heat
of the summer, may be better imagined than described. No disinfectants whatever were used,
and at intervals of three days it was emptied by the crudest means imaginable, on which occasions
the barracks were not only untenantable but absolutely unapproachable. In fact, the conditions
were so primitive and revolting that the outbreak of an epidemic was momentarily expected,
not only by ourselves but by the authorities as well.

This danger was brought home to us when we were compelled to submit to the ordeal of vaccination.
Even this task was carried out under conditions which no other civilised country would permit
for a moment, for the simple reason that antiseptic precautions were conspicuous by their complete
absence. The order arrived that we were to be vaccinated on such and such a morning "in the
interests of the camp--both prisoners and soldiers." We were ordered to line up in a queue
outside a small building which we were to enter singly in succession. We were commanded to
have our arms bared to the shoulder in readiness. Vaccination was not carried out by Dr. Ascher,
the official medical attendant to the camp, but by a young military doctor who came especially
for the purpose.

Whether it was because the temperature within the small building was too sultry or not I cannot
say, but the vaccinator decided to complete his work in the open air, the fact that a dust-storm
was raging notwithstanding. The military doctor was accompanied by a colleague carrying a small
pot or basin which evidently contained the serum. The operation was performed quickly if crudely.
The vaccinator stopped before a man, dipped his lance or whatever the instrument was into the
jar, and gripping the arm tightly just above the elbow, made four big slashes on the muscle.
The incisions were large, deep, and brutal-looking. Then he passed to the next man, repeating
the process, and so on all along the line. He took no notice of the dust which was driving
hither and thither in clouds.

Whether by misfortune or mishap I received four striking gashes, and the shape of the incisions
made me wonder whether the vaccinator thought he was playing a game of noughts and crosses
with a scalpel upon my arm. After we had been wounded in this manner we were in a quandary.
Our arms were thickly covered with the drifting sand. Our shirt sleeves were equally soiled.
Consequently infection of the wound appeared to be inevitable whatever we did. In this unhappy
frame of mind and dirty condition we were dismissed. Unfortunately for me I proved resistant
to the serum, and had to submit to the operation a second time with equally abortive results.
One or two of the prisoners suffered untold agonies, blood-poisoning evidently setting in to
aggravate the action of the serum.

The primitive sanitary arrangements which prevailed brought one plague upon us. We suffered
from a pestilence of flies which under the circumstances was not surprising, everything being
conducive to their propagation. They swarmed around us in thick black clouds. They recalled
the British housefly, only they were much larger, and extremely pugnacious. Life within the
barracks became almost impossible owing to their attacks and the severity of their stings,
which set up maddening irritation. We petitioned the authorities to allow us a supply of fly-papers.
After considerable demur they acquiesced, but we could not use them, or rather they were used
up too rapidly. The evening we received them we decided to attach a few to the ceiling, but
before we could fix them in position their fly-catching capacities were exhausted. They were
covered with a heaving, buzzing black mass of insects within a minute. So we abandoned fly-catching
tactics.

This pestilence harassed us sorely during our meals. They settled everywhere and upon everything.
While butter or margarine were unobtainable at the canteen we were able to purchase a substance
which resembled honey in appearance, colour, and taste. Indeed we were told that it was an
artificial product of the beehive. When we spread this upon our bread the flies swarmed to
the attack, and before the food could be raised to our mouths the bread was not to be seen
for flies. At first we spent considerable effort in brushing the insects away, but their numbers
were too overwhelming to be resisted, so we were compelled to run the risk of the flies, and
I, in common with others, have eaten bread, honey, and flies as well! It took considerable
time and effort to master such a revolting meal, but under these conditions, it was either
flies or nothing, so we ran the risk of the insects, although it cannot be said that they contributed
to the tastiness of an already indifferent food, or our peace of mind, because we could not
dismiss thoughts of the cesspool which the flies made their happy hunting-ground during the
periods between meals.

Infraction of the rules and regulations were frequent, for the simple reason that they were
never explained to us. We had to learn them as best we could--invariably through the experience
of punishment. This state of affairs placed us at the mercy of the guards. Those who were venomously
anti-British expended their savagery upon us on every occasion. For the slightest misdemeanour
we were consigned to the cells for one, two, three, or more days. The cell recalled my domicile
in Wesel, and I must confess that I made the acquaintance of its uninviting interior upon several
occasions through inadvertently breaking some rule. But the others fared no better in this
respect. It was cells for anything.

This prison was a small masonry building, fitted with a tiny grating. It was devoid of all
appointments, not even a plank bed being provided. To sleep one had to stretch one's self on
the floor and secure as much comfort as the cold stone would afford. Bread and water was the
diet. All exercise was denied, except possibly for the brief stretch accompanied by the sentry
to fetch the mid-day meal of soup, assuming the offence permitted such food in the dietary,
from the cook-house. Conversation with a fellow-creature was rigidly verboten. It was solitary
confinement in its most brutal form.

The method of punishment was typically Prussian. If one upset the guard by word or deed, he
clapped you in the cell right-away and left you there. Possibly he went off to his superior
officer to report your offence. But the probability was that he did not. Indeed it was quite
likely that he forgot all about you for a time, because the sentry at the door never raised
the slightest interrogation concerning a prisoner within. More than once a prisoner was forgotten
in this manner, and accordingly was condemned to the silence, solitude, and dismal gloom of
the tiny prison until the guard chanced to recall him to mind.

During my period of incarceration at Sennelager the number of civil prisoners brought in to
swell our party was somewhat slender. They came in small batches of ten or twelve, but were
often fewer in number. They invariably arrived about two o'clock in the morning. Then the sentry
would come thumping into the barrack, his heavy boots resounding like horse's hoofs and his
rifle clanging madly. Reaching the room he would yell out with all the power of his lungs,
thus awaking every one, "Dolmetscher! Dolmetscher!" (Interpreter! Interpreter!) "Get up!" That
luckless individual had to bestir himself, tumble into his clothes and hurry to the office
to assist the authorities in the official interrogation of the latest arrivals. This was one
of the little worries which were sent to try us, but we soon became inured to the rude disturbance
of our rest, in which the average sentry took a fiendish delight.

By the time the first Sunday came round, and having nothing to do--all labour was suspended,
although no religious service was held--I decided to wash my solitary shirt. I purchased a
small cake of cheap rough soap from the canteen, got a wooden tub, and stripping myself to
the waist, washed out the article in question outside the barrack door to the amusement of
my colleagues. While I was busily engaged in this necessary occupation I was attracted by tittering
and chattering. Looking up I found I was the object of curiosity among a crowd of civilians
dressed in their Sunday best. Together with my fellow-prisoners I hurriedly retired to the
sanctuary of our barracks.

Later we learned that on Sundays the residents of Paderborn and the countryside around were
free to enter the camp to have a look at the British prisoners. Indeed they were invited. They
stalked and wandered about the camp in much the same manner as they would have strolled through
the Zoological Gardens in Berlin, looking at us as if we were strange exotic animals, chattering,
laughing, and joking among themselves at our expense. We considered this an unwarrantable humiliation,
and we countered it by the only means within our power. We resolutely stayed indoors until
the gaping crowds had gone. This diversion of the German public, if such it may be called,
speedily fell into desuetude, not because the novelty wore off, but because the "Engländer"
were never to be seen, so that the six-mile tramp from Paderborn to Sennelager and back was
merely wasted. It was a bitter disappointment to the curiosity-provoked crowds, but we scored
a distinct success.

The first Sunday I had to wander about shirtless, the only garment of this character which
I possessed hanging upon the line to dry. But the sight of a crowd of us, on Sunday mornings,
stripped bare to our waists, washing and scrubbing the only shirts to our backs, became quite
a common sight later, and I must confess that we made merry over this weekly duty for a time.

We had not been in Sennelager many days before we discovered to our cost that we were all suffering
solitary confinement. We were completely isolated from the outside world. We were not permitted
to receive any letters or parcels. Neither were we allowed to communicate with anyone outside.
Newspapers were also sternly forbidden. These regulations were enforced with the utmost rigour
during my stay at this camp. Consequently we knew nothing whatever about the outside world,
and the outside world knew nothing about us. Early in September I did succeed in getting two
post-cards away, but I ascertained afterwards that they did not reach their destinations until
some weeks after I had left Sennelager. We felt this isolation very keenly because one and
all were wondering vaguely what our wives, families, friends, or relatives were doing.

About ten days after our arrival at this hostelry there was a parade. The adjutant strutted
before us with the pride of a peacock, and in his pompous voice cried:

"All prisoners who reside in Germany because of their business connections, or who are married
to German wives, will be permitted to return to their homes!"

This announcement precipitated wild excitement because it affected from twenty to thirty prisoners.
Needless to say they packed their bags with frantic speed, as if fearing cancellation of the
welcome news, and emerging from the barracks hastened to receive their passes to make their
way to Paderborn. Among them was the head of our barrack, Captain K----. A strong friendship
had sprung up between him and me, and we shook hands vigorously though silently. He invited
many others and myself, in the event of our being given permission to move about the country,
to come and stay at his house near C----.

While every man Jack of us who was left behind was heavy in his heart and became sad because
he was not numbered among the privileged few, we were by no means cast down. As the small party
of free men walked towards the entrance we gave them a frantic and wild parting cheer. It was
the first time we had let ourselves go and we did it with a vengeance. The German officers
and men started as if electrified, and looked at us in amazement. They thought we had gone
mad. Beside us stood one of the guards. He turned to us, his eyes and mouth wide open, to mutter:

"My God! You English are a funny race!"

"What's the matter?" we returned.

"What? You cheer those fellows who are going home and yet you are being left here!"

"Why not? Good luck to them!" and we let fly another terrific huzza to speed them on their way.

The guard shook his head, thoroughly puzzled. He did not understand the psychology of the British
race any more than his superiors.

"But why do you cheer?" pursued the guard.

"Because we are English," swiftly retorted one of our party. The guard said no more.

A day or two after the departure of our colleagues there was a change in the command of the
camp. The old General was superseded by a man whose name will never be forgotten by the British
prisoners of Sennelager Camp. They will ever couple him with the infamous instigator of the
"Black Hole of Calcutta."

This was Major Bach. Upon his assumption of the command he inaugurated what can only be truthfully
described as a Reign of Terror. Tall, of decided military bearing, he had the face of a ferret
and was as repulsive. With his sardonic grin he recalled no one so vividly as the "Villain
of the Vic!"

The morning after his arrival he paraded us all, and in a quiet suave voice which he could
command at times stated:

"English prisoners! Arrangements are being made for your instant return to England. A day or
two must pass before you can go, to enable the necessary papers to be completed and put in
order. But you will not have to do any more work."

We were dismissed and I can assure you that we were a merry, excited crowd. We jumped for joy
at the thought that our imprisonment had come to an end. Like schoolboys we hastened to the
barracks and feverishly set to work packing our bags, whistling and singing joyously meanwhile.

Suddenly the bugle rang out summoning us to parade again. We rushed out, all agog with excitement,
and half hoping that our release would be immediate. The Adjutant confronted us and in a loud
voice roared:

"English prisoners! You've been told that you are going back to England. That was a mistake.
You will get to work at once!"

CHAPTER VIII

BADGERING THE BRITISH HEROES FROM MONS

It was about a fortnight after my arrival at Sennelager. Our rest had been rudely disturbed
about the usual hour of 2 a.m. by the sentry who came clattering into the barrack roaring excitedly,
"Dolmetscher! Dolmetscher!"

C---- who, after the departure of K----, had been elected Captain of our barrack and who was
also the official interpreter, answered the summons. He was required to accompany the guards
to the station. A further batch of British prisoners had arrived. By this time we had grown
accustomed to this kind of nocturnal disturbance, so after C---- had passed out the rest of
the barrack re-settled down to sleep.

I was astir just after four o'clock. It was my turn to serve as barrack-room orderly for the
day, and I started in early to complete my task before 5.30 so as to secure the opportunity
to shave and wash before parade.

I was outside the barrack when my attention was aroused by the sound of tramping feet. Looking
down the road I was surprised to see a huge column of dust, and what appeared to be a never-ending
crowd of soldiers, marching in column. It was such an unusual sight, we never having witnessed
the arrival of more than a dozen prisoners at a time, that, especially the moment I descried
the uniforms, my curiosity was aroused. Many of my comrades were astir and partly dressed when
I gave a hail, so they hurried out to join me.

The army, for such it seemed, advanced amidst clouds of dust. As they drew nearer we identified
those at the head as Belgian soldiers. They swung by without faltering. Behind them came a
small army of French prisoners. We could not help noticing the comparatively small number of
wounded among both the Belgians and the French, and although they were undoubtedly dejected
at their unfortunate capture they were apparently in fine fettle.

But it was the men who formed the rear of this depressing cavalcade, and who also numbered
several hundreds, which aroused our keenest interest and pity. From their khaki uniforms it
was easy to determine their nationality. They were British military prisoners.

It was a sad and pitiful procession, and it was with the greatest difficulty we could suppress
our emotion. The tears welled to our eyes as we looked on in silent sympathy. We would have
given those hardened warriors a rousing cheer but we dared not. The guards would have resented
such an outburst, which would have rendered the lot of the British, both civilian and military,
a hundred times worse.

The soldiers, battle-stained, blood-stained, weary of foot, body and mind walked more like
mechanical toys than men in the prime of life. Their clothes were stained almost beyond recognition;
their faces were ragged with hair and smeared with dirt. But though oppressed, tired, hungry
and thirsty they were far from being cast down, although many could scarcely move one foot
before the other.

The most touching sight was the tenderness with which the unwounded and less injured assisted
their weaker comrades. Some of the worst cases must have been suffering excruciating agony,
but they bore their pain with the stoicism of a Red Indian. The proportion of wounded was terrifying:
every man appeared to be carrying one scar or another. As they swung by us they gave us a silent
greeting which we returned, but there was far more significance in that mute conversation with
eyes and slight movements of the hands than in volumes of words and frantic cheering.

The brutal reception they had received from their captors was only too apparent. Those who
were so terribly wounded as to be beyond helping themselves received neither stretcher nor
ambulance. They had to hobble, limp and drag themselves along as best they could, profiting
from the helping hand extended by a comrade. Those who were absolutely unable to walk had to
be carried by their chums, and it was pathetic to observe the tender care, solicitude and effort
which were displayed so as to spare the luckless ones the slightest jolt or pain while being
carried in uncomfortable positions and attitudes over the thickly dust-strewn and uneven road.
The fortitude of the badly battered was wonderful. They forgot their sufferings, and were even
bandying jest and joke. Their cheeriness under the most terrible conditions was soul-moving.
No one can testify more truthfully to the Tapley cheeriness of the British soldier under the
most adverse conditions than the little knot of civilian prisoners at Sennelager when brought
face to face for the first time with the fearful toll of war.

The unhappy plight of our heroic fighting men, as we watched them march towards what was called
the "field," which was nearly a mile beyond our barracks, provoked an immediate council of
war among ourselves. It was only too apparent that we must exert ourselves on their behalf.
Unfortunately, however, we were not in a position to extend them pronounced assistance: our
captors saw to that. But we divided up into small parties and succeeded in giving all the aid
that was in our power.

The soldiers were accommodated in tents. We had observed the raising of a canvas town upon
the "field," and had been vaguely wondering for what it was required. Were German recruits
coming to Sennelager to undergo their training, or were we to be transferred from the barracks
to tents? At first we thought the latter the more probable, but as we reflected upon the size
of canvas-town we concluded that provision was being made for something of far greater importance.

The Belgian prisoners were sent into the stables. These, however, were scrupulously clean and
empty of all the incidentals generally associated with such buildings, because the civilian
prisoners had been compelled to scour them out a few days before. Consequently the Belgians
had no room for protest against the character of their quarters, except perhaps upon the ground
of being somewhat over-crowded. A number of the French soldiers were also distributed among
the stables, but the surplus shared tents near their British comrades.

Upon reaching the field the prisoners were paraded. Each man was subjected to a searching cross-examination,
and had to supply his name and particulars of the regiment to which he belonged. All these
details were carefully recorded. In the preparation of this register the German inquisitors
betrayed extraordinary anxiety to ascertain the disposition of the British troops and the regiments
engaged in the battle-line. Evidently they were in a state of complete ignorance upon this
point. Nearly every soldier was requested to give the name of the place where he had been fighting,
wounded, and captured. But the British soldiers did not lose their presence of mind. They saw
through the object of these interrogations and their replies for the most part were extremely
unsatisfactory. The man either did not know, could not recall, or had forgotten where he had
been fighting, and was exceedingly hazy about what regiments were forming the British army.
In some instances, however, the desired data was forthcoming from those who were most severely
wounded, the poor fellows in their misery failing to grasp the real significance of the interpellations.
It was easy to realise the extreme value of the details which were given in this manner because
the Germans chuckled, chattered, and cackled like a flock of magpies. As may be supposed, owing
to the exacting nature of the search for information, the registration of the prisoners occupied
a considerable time.

[*large gap]

Later, during the day of their arrival, we civilian prisoners had the opportunity to fraternise
with our fighting compatriots. Then we ascertained that they had been wounded and captured
during the retreat from Mons. But they had been subjected to the most barbarous treatment conceivable.
They had received no skilled or any other attention upon the battlefield. They had merely bound
up one another's wounds as best they could with materials which happened to be at hand, or
had been forced to allow the wounds to remain open and exposed to the air. Bleeding and torn
they had been bundled unceremoniously into a train, herded like cattle, and had been four days
and nights travelling from the battlefield to Sennelager.

During these 96 hours they had tasted neither food nor water! The train was absolutely deficient
in any commissariat, and the soldiers had not been permitted to satisfy their cravings, even
to the slightest degree, and even if they were in the possession of the wherewithal, by the
purchase of food at stations at which the train had happened to stop. What with the fatigue
of battle and this prolonged enforced abstinence from the bare necessaries of life, it is not
surprising that they reached Sennelager in a precarious and pitiful condition.

Among our heroes were five commissioned officers, including a major. These were accommodated
at Sennelager for about a fortnight but then they were sent away, whither we never knew beyond
the fact that they had been condemned to safer imprisonment in a fortress. Among the prisoners
were also about 200 men belonging to the R.A.M.C., taken in direct contravention of the generally
accepted rules of war. They were treated in precisely the same manner as the captured fighting
men. There were also a few non-commissioned officers who were permitted to retain their authority
within certain limits.

One of the prisoners gave me a voluminous diary which he had kept, and in which were chronicled
the whole of his movements and impressions from the moment he landed in France until his capture,
including the Battle of Mons. It was a remarkable human document, and I placed it in safe keeping,
intending to get it out of the camp and to send it to my friend at home upon the first opportunity.
But ill-luck dogged this enterprise. The existence of the diary got to the ears of our wardens
and I was compelled to surrender it.

The next morning the wounded received attention. The medical attendant attached to the camp
for the civilian prisoners, Dr. Ascher, was not placed in command of this duty, although he
extended assistance. A German military surgeon was given the responsibility. The medical arrangements
provided by this official, who became unduly inflated with the eminence of his position, were
of the most arbitrary character. He attended the camp at certain hours and he adhered to his
time-table in the most rigorous manner. If you were not there to time, no matter the nature
of your injury, you received no attention. Similarly, if the number of patients lined up outside
the diminutive hospital were in excess of those to whom he could give attention during the
hours he had set forth, he would turn the surplus away with the intimation that they could
present themselves the next day at the same hour when perhaps he would be able to see to them.
It did not matter to him how serious was the injury or the urgency for attention. His hours
were laid down, and he would not stay a minute later for anything. Fortunately, Dr. Ascher,
who resented this inflexible system, would attend the most pressing cases upon his own initiative,
for which, it is needless to say, he received the most heartfelt thanks.

Before the duty of examining the wounded soldiers commenced there was a breeze between Dr.
Ascher and the military surgeon. The former insisted that the patients should receive attention
as they lined up--first come to be first served, and irrespective of nationality. But the military
doctor would have none of this. His hatred of the British was so intense that he could not
resist any opportunity to reveal his feelings. I really think that he would willingly have
refused to attend to the British soldiers at all if his superior orders had not charged him
with this duty. So he did the next worse thing to harass our heroes. He expressed his intention
to attend first to the Belgians, then to the French, and to the British last. They could wait,
notwithstanding that their injuries were more severe and the patients more numerous than those
of the other two Allies put together. This decision, however, was only in consonance with the
general practice of the camp--the British were always placed last in everything. If the military
surgeon thought that his arbitrary attitude would provoke protests and complaints among the
British soldiers he was grievously mistaken, because they accepted his decision without a murmur.

The queue outside the hospital was exceedingly lengthy. The heat was intense and grew intolerable
as the day advanced and the sun climbed higher into the heavens. To aggravate matters a dust-storm
blew up. The British wounded at the end of the line had a dreary, long, and agonising wait.
Half-dead from fatigue, hunger, and racked with pain it is not surprising that many collapsed
into the dust, more particularly as they could not secure the slightest shelter or relief from
the broiling sun. As the hours wore on they dropped like flies, to receive no attention whatever,--except
from their less-wounded comrades, who strove might and main to render the plight of the worst
afflicted as tolerable as the circumstances would permit. Dr. Ascher toiled in the hospital
like a Trojan, but the military doctor was not disposed to exert himself unduly.

To make matters worse this despicable disciple of Æsculapius came out, and, notwithstanding
the drifting and blowing sand, ordered all the British prisoners to remove their bandages so
that there might be no delay when the hospital was reached. The men obeyed as best as they
could, but in many instances the bandages refused to release themselves from the wound. The
military doctor speedily solved this problem. He caught hold of the untied end of the bandage
and roughly tore it away. The wounded man winced but not a sound came from his lips, although
the wrench must have provoked a terrible throb of pain, and in some instances induced the injury
to resume bleeding. Finding this brutal treatment incapable of drawing the anticipated protest
he relented with the later prisoners, submitting the refractory bandages to preliminary damping
with water to coax the dressings free.

With their bandages removed the soldiers presented a ghastly sight. Their clothes were tattered
and torn, blood-stained and mudstained, while the raw wounds seemed to glare wickedly against
the sun, air, and dust. It was pitiable to see the men striving to protect their injuries from
the driving sand, in vain, because the sand penetrated everywhere. Consequently the gaping
wounds soon became clogged with dust, and it is not surprising that blood-poisoning set in,
gangrene supervening in many instances. Under these conditions many injuries and wounds which
would have healed speedily under proper attention and which would have left little or no permanent
traces, developed into serious cases, some of which resisted all treatment, finally demanding
amputations. The mutilation which ensued was terrible, and there is no doubt whatever that
many a limb was lost, condemning the wounded man to be a cripple for life, just because he
happened to be British, incurred the hostility of the military surgeon, and was intentionally
neglected. Matters were aggravated by the military surgeon coming out of the hospital finally,
after the men had been standing uncomplainingly for several hours in the baking heat, going
a certain distance along the line, and then brutally telling all those beyond that point that
they could re-bind up their wounds and come to see him the next morning. He had no time to
attend to them that day, he remarked.

I do not know how our wounded heroes from Mons would have got on had it not been for Dr. Ascher,
the R.A.M.C. prisoners, ourselves, and a British military doctor who happened to be among those
captured on the battlefield. The latter was not discovered for some time because he refused
to reveal his identity. Subsequently, realising the serious turn which matters were taking,
and observing the intentional and systematic neglect which was being meted out to his unfortunate
fellow-countrymen, he buckled in and did wonderful work. Prince L---- and K---- also toiled
incessantly in the attempt to ameliorate the plight of our wounded. Many of the soldiers were
absolutely without funds, but these two civilians extended them the assistance so sorely needed
out of their own pockets, purchasing food-stuffs from the canteen, which they distributed together
with other articles which were in urgent request, with every liberality.

The lack of funds hit our wounded exceedingly hard. Although they were on the sick list they
received no special treatment. They were in dire need of nourishing food suitable for invalids,
but they never received it. They were compelled, in common with ourselves who were in tolerably
good health, to subsist on milkless and sugarless acorn coffee, cabbage-soup, and black bread,
which cannot possibly be interpreted as an invalid body-restoring dietary. As a result of this
insufficient feeding the soldiers commenced to fall away.

This systematic starvation, for it was nothing more nor less, rendered the soldiers well-nigh
desperate. In order to secure the money wherewith to supplement their meagre and uninviting
non-nutritious food with articles from the canteen, they were prepared to sell anything and
everything which could be turned into a few pence. Khaki overcoats were freely sold for six
shillings apiece. For sixpence you could buy a pair of puttees. Even buttons were torn off
and sold for what they would fetch. One morning, on parade, a soldier whose face testified
to the ravages of hunger tore off his cardigan jacket and offered it to any one for sixpence
in order to buy bread. Little souvenirs which the soldiers had picked up on the battlefield,
and which they treasured highly, hoping to take them home as mementoes of their battles, were
sold to any one who would buy. As a matter of fact some of the soldiers were prepared to part
with anything and everything in which they were standing in order to get food.

While we fraternised with the soldiers at the very first opportunity to secure details of their
experiences which were freely given and to learn items of news, the German guards interfered.
We had been kept in complete ignorance of the progress of the war, and now we were learning
too much for our captors. I may say that all we heard about the war was the occasional intelligence
given when we were on parade. Major Bach would stroll up with German newspapers in his hands
and with fiendish delight would give us items of news which he thought would interest us. Needless
to say the fragments always referred to brilliant German victories and he used to watch our
faces with grim pleasure to ascertain the effect they produced upon us. At first we were somewhat
impressed, especially when he told us that Paris had been captured. But when he related ten
days later that it had fallen again, and that London was in German hands, we smiled in spite
of ourselves because we had trapped him in his lying.

We were now separated from our soldier friends, from whom we had gained a more reliable insight
concerning the state of affairs. The German guards also gave themselves away by relating that
they were embittered against the British soldiers because they had fought like devils and had
wrought terrible havoc among the ranks of the German army. Consequently the only opportunity
which arose for conversation was during the evenings around the canteen. Even then we had to
be extremely cautious. If the guard saw one or two civilians associated with a group of Tommies,
he would come up, force us apart at the point of the bayonet, and make us proceed different ways.

Our practice was to mingle singly and discreetly with the soldiers, and then upon return to
barracks exchange news we had gleaned. I may say it became an unwritten law of the camp that,
if a civilian took a soldier into the canteen and asked him any questions, he was to reciprocate
by treating the Tommy to some little dainty which was obtainable. If we asked nothing the soldier
got nothing. This latter attitude was not due to our resenting the idea of treating the soldier,
but because many of us were poor, or empty, in pocket ourselves. Although we did a considerable
amount of forced labour we never received a penny for it.

I had a tilt at my guard one day over the payment of prisoners of war. Although I knew nothing
about the International law upon the subject I made a venture.

"Do you know?" I asked, "that as prisoners of war we are entitled to 60 pfennigs--sixpence--a
day for what work we do?"

"Ja! Ja!" he grinned. "But as it costs us 90 pfennigs a day to keep you, after deducting the
60 pfennigs, you still owe us 30 pfennigs a day!"

The idea of us being in Germany's debt for our board and lodging was certainly humorous. If
any one asked me how much it cost the Teutonic Government in this direction I should consider
a halfpenny a day a very liberal figure.

The efforts of the prisoners to supplement their meagre and monotonous official allowance of
food by purchases at the canteen were handicapped by the avariciousness and unprecedented rascality
of the unprincipled rogue who was in charge of this indispensable establishment.

When a soldier had secured a few pence, say a shilling, by the sale of this or that personal
belonging, and proffered the coin to the canteen proprietor, this worthy would pick it up,
shrug his shoulders, and disdainfully push the shilling back with the remark, "English money?
No good here! I can get very little for it!"

At this pronouncement the soldier's face would fall. But dreading denial of a "brötchen" of
which he was in urgent need he would grow desperate. He would push the coin across the counter
again.

"It must be worth something! Now how much will you give for it?" he would ask pleadingly.

With further demur, elevation of eyebrows, puckering of brows and hesitancy the canteen proprietor
would complete a mental arithmetical sum in currency exchange. At last he would reluctantly
quote a figure, and as a rule it was about fifty per cent. below the face value of the coin.
Thus the soldier's shilling would only be valued at sixpence in German money.

The soldier, satisfied at being able to get a "brötchen" even at such a sacrifice, would submit.
But although the unwarranted depreciation was robbery it was not the worst feature of the methods
of this greedy money-changer.

The soldier would receive, not five English pennies or 50 German pfennigs as his change but
a French half-franc. Then the next time he visited the canteen for another "brötchen" or something
else, he would put down the half-franc he had previously received. Again the soldier received
a rude surprise. The canteen proprietor would reluctantly say that the French money was useless
to him. There would be a repetition of the previous bickering over the British shilling, and
at last the astonished soldier would learn that he could only change the French half-franc
at a discount of forty per cent. In this instance the change would be the equivalent of twopence
in English money, but it would be given in Belgian coins. Upon the third occasion when the
British soldier visited the canteen to buy a "brötchen" and proffered the Belgian coinage he
would learn that this had also undergone a sudden depreciation of fifty per cent. So that by
the time the soldier had expended his shilling he had really received goods to the value of
about threepence.

It was a cunning method of conducting business and the canteen proprietor was a master in keeping
the hated currency of the three nations in circulation among themselves, and always exacted
a heavy charge for its acceptance.

With such a novel means of ringing the changes upon soldiers of the three nationalities it
is not surprising that the canteen proprietor waxed rich within a very short time.

Such a state of affairs not only adversely affected the soldiers but the poor civilian prisoners
as well. At last things came to such a pass that one of our interpreters, F. K----, the fellow-prisoner
whom I had met in Wesel prison, tackled the canteen proprietor upon his unfair method of conducting
business, and emphasised how harsh it was upon the prisoners who were not flush in funds. For
this attempt to improve our position F. K---- had to pay the penalty. The canteen proprietor
promptly reported the interpreter to the Commanding Officer of the camp, who forthwith sentenced
our comrade to three days' cells for daring to interfere with German organisation!

The Germans, in their determined intention to prevent the British civilian and military prisoners
from mingling, adopted the most drastic measures. Guards were posted everywhere and we were
sternly forbidden to enter the soldiers' reservation. If we were detected the guards were instructed
to let drive with their rifles without giving any previous warning. The anti-British sentiment
was so acute that any one of our guards would have only been too delighted to have had the
chance to put this order into effect, and that upon the slightest pretext. As he would have
been upheld in his action we decided to give these amiable wardens no opportunity to turn us
into targets.

There is no doubt that we were regarded as little less than desperadoes of the worst type.
Our troops had given the Germans such a severe shaking up as to throw our guards into a state
of wild panic. This was proved only too conclusively by an incident which occurred one night.
After we had retired we were not permitted to put our heads out of the windows. To do so was
to court a bullet, also according to instructions. On this particular night, after we had turned
in, one of the prisoners, unable to sleep owing to mental worry and the heat, strolled to the
door to get a breath of fresh air. As he stepped out into the dusty footway a terrifying fusillade
rang out and continued for several minutes. We all sprang up wondering what was the matter.

The poor fellow had been spotted coming out of the door by the sentry who, too excited to recognise
the man, had fired his rifle at the prisoner for all he was worth. Instantly the guard turned
out. The prisoner brought abruptly to his senses had darted back into the barrack safe and
sound but fearfully scared. Only the wild shooting of the sentry had saved him from being riddled.
The guard itself, upon turning out, evidently thought that a rebellion had broken out or at
least that a prisoner had escaped. Seizing their rifles they blazed away for dear life. They
did not aim at anything in particular but shot haphazardly at the stars, haystacks, and trees
in the most frantic manner imaginable and as rapidly as their magazine arms would let them.
Undoubtedly the Germans were half-mad with fear. It rained bullets around the barracks and
every man within crouched down on his bed, away from the windows through which we momentarily
expected the bullets to crash. None of us dared to move for fear that there might be a collision
with one or more of the missiles which pattered around us.

The next morning we were paraded hurriedly. The guard ran about among us, searching every corner
of the barracks, as if bereft. The roll was called with wild excitement. A prisoner had escaped!
Had he not been seen by every imaginative member of the guard? But when they discovered that
we were all safe and sound, and that we were perfectly composed, they presented a sorry array
of stalwart warders. Their sheepishness provoked us to laughter when we learned the true reason
for all the bother. But it brought home to us the extreme danger of falling foul of such a
panicky mob.

The military reservation was fenced off from our quarters by barbed wire. The rule ran that
no prisoner on either side of the barrier was to advance within a metre's distance--about one
yard--of the fence. Guards were on duty to see that this regulation was obeyed. One day a British
Tommy, in a moment of forgetfulness, ventured within the forbidden distance. With a flash the
excited guard standing near by raised his rifle and jabbed fiercely at the soldier. The bayonet
got home in the luckless Tommy's shoulder and passed clean through from front to back, the
ugly point of the bayonet protruding about three inches.

This incident and unwarranted savagery, although born of "nerves," sickened and also roused
those of us who had seen it. Seeing that the soldier was quite unarmed the sentry might have
used the butt end of his weapon just as satisfactorily. But no! It was a swine of an Engländer
who had infringed the rule and the bayonet was the instrument for correction, to be plied with
the utmost effect.

Seeing the desperate condition of the British wounded and the inhuman manner in which they
were treated one might naturally conclude that they would have died off like flies. Sennelager
has the most evil reputation among the German prison camps for systematic brutality and unprecedented
ferocity. But to levy such an accusation is to bring an immediate German denial. In reply they
turn to the official reports and retort that conditions could not possibly be so terrible as
they are painted, otherwise the camp would be certain to reveal a high mortality. On the other
hand the death-rate at Sennelager is strikingly low, and the German officials smile contentedly
while the Press comforts itself smugly.

The presentation of the low death-rate is even likely to arouse doubt in the minds of the unsophisticated
British at home. They are not versed in German cunning. Sennelager camp carries a low death-rate
for the simple reason that a prisoner is not permitted to die there. When a man has been reduced
to a hopeless condition and his demise appears imminent he is hurriedly sent off to some other
place, preferably a hospital, to die. By a slice of luck he might cheat Death, in which event,
upon his recovery, he is bundled off to another prison. But he seldom, if ever, comes back
to Sennelager! During my period of incarceration only one man, B----, who was sent to Paderborn
hospital to die as the Germans thought, but who recovered, returned to Sennelager. When a man
was hastened out of the camp in this manner we never knew his fate. It became a by-word that
few men went from Sennelager but none returned. Consequently, whenever we saw a sick case leave
the camp we surmised that the poor wretch was making his final journey to the Great Beyond.
We assumed his speedy death from natural causes--as the German authorities would relate--to
be inevitable.

CHAPTER IX

THE PERSECUTION OF THE PRIESTS

Although we British prisoners, both civilian and military, constituted the principal butt for
the spleen of Major Bach, we never raised the slightest audible complaint or protest, although
inwardly and in the seclusion of our barracks we chafed at the unrelenting tyranny to which
we were exposed and against which we were completely helpless. In strict accordance with the
instructions of the Commandant we were always the last to receive attention. If we ever had
to go to the hospital to receive any treatment and were the first to arrive at its doors, we
had to kick our heels outside and possess ourselves in patience as best we could until all
the prisoners of other nationalities had seen the surgeon. As a rule we had a lost journey.
The surgeon in his haste to get away either would notify us that our cases could not receive
enquiry until the morrow, or he would treat us in a perfunctory manner.

As at the hospital so at the cook-house at meal times. We were never given our rations until
all the others had been satisfied. The consequence was that we generally went short of food.
The first to be treated received liberal quantities of the cabbage soup. What was left had
to be eked out amongst us.

"The damned English swine can wait!" This was the dictum of those in authority and the underlings
were only too eager to fulfil it to the letter. If there were the slightest opportunity to
deprive us of our food, on the flimsy pretext that we had not answered the summons with sufficient
alacrity, it was eagerly grasped. Under these conditions we had to go supperless to bed, unless
we could procure something at the canteen or our more fortunate comrades came to our assistance
by sharing with us the comestibles they had purchased.

Some ten days after the appearance of Major Bach a new target for his savagery and venom appeared.
This was a party of Belgian priests. I shall never forget their entrance to the camp. We were
performing necessary daily duties outside our barracks when our attention was drawn to an approaching
party surrounded by an abnormally imposing force of soldiers. Such a military display was decidedly
unusual and we naturally concluded that a prisoner of extreme significance, and possibly rank,
had been secured and was to be interned at Sennelager.

When the procession drew nearer and we saw that the prisoners were priests our curiosity gave
way to feelings of intense disgust. They were twenty-two in number and were garbed just as
they had been torn from prayer by the ruthless soldiers. Some were venerable men bordering
on seventy. Subsequently I discovered that the youngest among them was fifty-four years of
age, but the average was between sixty and seventy.

The reverend fathers with clasped hands moved precisely as if they were conducting some religious
ceremonial among their flocks in their beloved churches. But the pace was too funereal for
the advocates of the goose-step. They hustled the priests into quicker movement, not in the
rough manner usually practised with us, but by clubbing the unfortunate religionists across
the shoulders with the stocks of their rifles, lowering their bayonets to them and giving vent
to blood-freezing curses, fierce oaths, coarse jeers, and rewarding the desperate endeavours
of the priests to fulfil the desires of their captors with mocking laughter and ribaldry.

The brutal manner in which they were driven into the camp as if they were sheep going to the
slaughter, made our blood boil. More than one of us clenched our fists and made a half-movement
forward as if to interfere. But we could do nothing and so had to control our furious indignation.

However, the moment the priests entered Sennelager we received a respite. Officers and guards
turned their savagery and spite from us to visit it upon these unhappy victims by night and
by day and at every trick and turn. Clubbing with the rifle was the most popular means of compelling
them to obey this, or to do that. More than once I have seen one of the aged religionists fall
to the ground beneath a rifle blow which struck him across the back. No indignity conceivable,
besides a great many indescribable, was spared those venerable men, and they bowed to their
revolting treatment with a meekness which seemed strangely out of place.

After one more than usually ferocious manifestation of attack I questioned our guard to ascertain
the reason for this unprecedented treatment and why the priests had been especially singled
out for such infamous ferocity.

"Ach!" he hissed with a violent expectoration, "They fired upon our brave comrades in Belgium.
They rang the bells of their churches to summon the women to the windows to fire upon our brothers
as they passed. The dogs! We'll show them! We'll break them before we have finished. They won't
want to murder our brave troops again!"

The words were jerked out with such fearful fury that I refrained from pursuing the subject.
Later I had a chat with one of the oldest priests. It was only with difficulty we could understand
one another, but it was easy to discover that the charges were absolutely unfounded, and were
merely the imagination of the distorted and savage Prussian mind when slipped from the leash
to loot, assault and kill for the first time in his life.

A night or two later a few of us were purchasing food at the canteen. Suddenly four soldiers
came tumbling in, dragging with them one of the most aged of the Fathers. He must have been
on the verge of three-score and ten, and with his long white beard he presented an impressive,
proud, and stately figure. But the inflamed Prussian has no respect for age. The old man was
bludgeoned against the counter and at his abortive attempts to protect himself the soldiers
jeered and laughed boisterously.

One of the soldiers called for a suit of clothes which was served out to prisoners, and for
which we were supposed to pay six marks--six shillings. The leader of the party of soldiers
grabbed the suit and, pushing the priest roughly, shouted,

"Here! You can't work in the fields with that garb you are wearing. You've got to buy these.
Six marks! Hurry up! You've got to put them on!"

The priest, who did not understand a word of German, naturally failed to grasp the meaning
of the command. He promptly received a clout to knock some sense into him, the soldier meanwhile
shaking the prison-like suit to emphasise what he meant.

In mute protest the priest shook his robes to indicate that he was quite content with what
he was wearing.

"Come on! If you don't change we'll do it for you!"

At this threat there was a wild outburst of demoniacal mirth, in which the girl behind the
counter, a brazen jade, joined uproariously as if in anticipation of some unusual amusement.
She reached over the counter, craning her neck to secure a better view of an unexpected spectacle.

As the Reverend Father did not respond to the command, the guard gathered round him. Before
we could realise what was happening, his crucifix and rosary had been roughly torn off, and
with his watch and chain had been thrown upon a table standing alongside. His robe was roughly
whisked away in the twinkling of an eye. But the prisoner did not move or raise a hand in protest,
even when he was bared to his under-clothing in front of fräulein, who signalled her appreciation
of the sight by wildly clapping her hands, laughing merrily, and giving expression to ribald jokes.

The proud manner in which the victim surveyed his tormentors only exasperated them still further.
By the threat of the bayonet he was compelled to stand up in front of these degenerate members
of the human race and the girl behind the counter, whose laughter could now be heard ringing
above the frantic shrieks of the soldiers.

We, who were unwilling witnesses of this revolting spectacle, were grinding our teeth in ill-suppressed
rage. Never during my sojourn in Sennelager, even when submitted to the greatest torment, have
I seen the British prisoners roused to such a pitch of fury. As a rule we effectively maintained
a quiet, if not indifferent, and tractable attitude, but this was more than flesh and blood
could stand.

But the priest never relaxed his proud composure and self-possession. He looked so penetratingly
at the laughing jade that I think it must have penetrated into her very soul. Her wild mirth
ended abruptly in a strange semi-hysterical shriek as her eyes met his look of intense scorn.
She winced and was effectively cowed into silence.

I may say that the floor of the canteen was of concrete, but upon this was a layer of mud,
slime, grease, and other filth brought in from outside upon the boots of those who frequented
the establishment. This was now a noisome muddy carpet some two inches in thickness. The Germans,
one may happen to recollect, have ever paraded their love of cleanliness before the world,
but this floor was the lie direct to their vain boastings.

At the sight of the old man standing there erect before them, the victim of unparalleled humiliation,
but his spirit as strong and as unyielding as ever, the fury of the soldiers knew no bounds.
One, giving vent to a fearful curse, placed his hand on the table upon which the crucifix,
rosary, and watch were lying. He gave a swift, fiendish glance at the priest towering above
him, and with a vile oath swept the articles to the floor, where they ploughed through the
greasy revolting slime.

It was then that the badgered and baited Father broke down. As he watched his beloved and revered
crucifix and rosary suffering defilement and serving as the rude sport for the iron heels of
the uncivilised Huns, the tears coursed down his face copiously. He gave a slight start as
he saw the articles flash through the air, but suppressed the cry of horror which sprang inadvertently
to his lips.

But the soldiers were not yet satisfied with the agony which they had created in the Father's
heart. One grabbed his rifle and lowering the bayonet in a threatening manner ordered the priest
to pick up his sacred treasures. The priest stooped down to obey the instructions, but this
was not sufficient for his persecutors. He was driven to his knees and forced to grope among
the repulsive mud for his revered religious tokens. With great difficulty he recovered them,
battered, crushed, and covered with the filthy accumulation upon the floor. As the Reverend
Father drew himself once more to his full height, clasping his treasures desperately, he brought
his hands together, and closing his eyes, we saw his lips moving in prayer.

This was the last straw. Grating our teeth, our faces white with passion, and our fingers itching
to seize those barbarians round their throats to choke their lives out of them, we nearly threw
discretion to the winds. Had one of us made a forward movement we should have sprung upon them
with the ferocity of bull-dogs. Those four soldiers never knew how near they were to meeting
their deserts upon that day. As it was we merely scraped our feet in impotent rage. It was
this fidgeting which aroused their attention. They turned and must have read our innermost
intentions written in our faces, for they instantly grabbed their rifles and rounded upon us.
With a motion which could not be misunderstood, and uttering fierce curses, they ordered us
to get outside. We refused to move, although confronted by ugly pointed bayonets. It was a
tense and critical moment. The soldiers undoubtedly saw that we were now thoroughly roused,
and, strange to say, they appeared to lose their heads, for they stood stock still, apparently
frightened by our determined appearance.

One of our party, although as enraged as any of us, yet had maintained more complete control
over his feelings. He saw the utter uselessness of our making a display of physical protest.
With a quiet "Come on, boys!" he stepped towards the door. It saved an ugly situation; the
movement to the door and the crisis had passed. Fiercely glaring at the soldiers, with our
jaws ominously set, and our fists clenched we retreated. Our action revived the courage of
the guards. They at once sprang forward to jostle us out, prodding and attempting to club us
right and left.

As we hurried through the open door we gave a final glance at the priest. He had turned his
head and was looking steadily at us, and if ever conversation were carried out by looks there
were volumes in his gaze. His eyes told us how impotent we were in the hands of these brutes
who were brave because they had their loaded rifles. They told us of his appreciation of our
sympathy in his hour of humiliation and torment. They extended us heartfelt thanks for our
willingness to come to his assistance, combined with a mute instruction not to lift a finger
on his behalf since the plight of one and all would become infinitely worse. We passed into
the street and the door was slammed upon us.

Once outside we allowed our feelings to have full rein. We point-blank refused to go away and
fell to discussing the situation somewhat fiercely. Evidently the tones of our voices persuaded
the soldiers within that they had gone far enough, because shortly afterwards the priest re-appeared,
and under escort was hurried away to his quarters.

When we next saw him we endeavoured by diplomatic questions to ascertain the reason why he
had been subjected to such torture and indignity. To him the greatest humiliation was that
his torment had occurred before a woman. But otherwise he refused to refer to the episode.
His retort, in a placid, resigned voice, was, "I only trust that God will have mercy upon them!"

The priests were denied all opportunity to move about the camp. There were scores of co-religionists
among us, but they were stedfastly refused the comfort which the Fathers could have given them.
The priests were not permitted to minister to the spiritual welfare of their flocks. As a matter
of fact, by the strict instruction of Major Bach, no religious services of any description
were permitted in the camp, at least not while I was under his sway.

To the members of the Roman Catholic persuasion the brow-beating, badgering, baiting and buffeting
of the helpless priests acted as a red rag to a bull. But what could they do? Protest was merely
so much wasted energy. Communication with anyone outside the camp was absolutely impossible.
To have reviled Major Bach for his cruelty and carefully planned barbarity would only have
brought down upon us further and more terrible punishment of such ferocity as would have made
everyone long for the respite of the grave.

But the priests could not be broken, no matter to what physical and mental suffering they were
subjected. Even Major Bach discovered to his chagrin that his devilish ingenuity had encountered
an insuperable obstacle. To wreak his revenge he now compelled the Fathers to carry out all
the dirtiest and most revolting work in the camp--duties so repulsive as to be beyond description.
But the good men never murmured. They did exactly as they were bidden, and even the guards
at last appeared to realise the fact that their fertility in torment was of no avail in attempting
to infuriate their meek charges.

Major Bach, however, was by no means cast down at his failures. One morning he ordered the
twenty-two priests to be paraded. They were then loaded up with a variety of cumbersome and
heavy implements--spades, picks, shovels, and such like. Each load would have taxed the strength
of a young man in the pink of condition and strength to carry, and yet here were old men, ranging
between sixty and seventy years, compelled to shoulder such burdens. But they did it.

An order was rapped out, the guard wheeled, and the tiny party moved off. We discovered afterwards
that they were marched three miles along the sandy road in the blazing sun to a point where
they were roughly bidden to dig a huge pit.

Throughout the morning, and without a moment's respite, they were forced to ply their tools,
their task-masters standing over them and smartly prodding and threatening them with their
rifles if they showed signs of falling from fatigue, or if they failed to maintain the expected
rate of progress. To such old men, who probably had never lifted the smallest and lightest
tool for many years, if ever, it was a back-breaking task. However, they clung dutifully to
their work until the hour of twelve rang out.

Now they were re-marshalled, their tools were re-shouldered, and they were marched back to
camp for the mid-day meal. By the time they reached the barracks all the other prisoners had
consumed the whole of the available soup. There was nothing for the priests. It was explained
that they should have hurried so as to have arrived at an earlier moment. Then they would have
received their due proportion. Meals could not be kept waiting for dawdlers, was the brutal
explanation of the authorities. The priests must be made to realise the circumstance that they
were not staying at an hotel. This, by the way, was a favourite joke among our wardens.

The priests bore visible signs of their six miles' tramp through crumbling scorching sand and
under a pitiless sun, as well as of their laborious toil excavating the large pit. But their
distressed appearance did not arouse the slightest feeling of pity among their tormentors.
Being too late for the meal they were re-lined up, and under a changed guard were marched back
again to the scene of their morning's labour.

Naturally, upon reaching the pit, they concluded that they would have to continue the excavation.
But to their intense astonishment the officer in charge ordered them to throw all the excavated
soil back again into the hole! This was one of the most glaring examples of performing a useless
task, merely to satisfy feelings of savagery and revenge, that I encountered in Sennelager,
although it was typical of Major Bach and his methods. He took a strange delight in devising
such senseless labours. Doubtless the authorities anticipated that the priests would make some
demur at being compelled to undo the work which they had done previously with so much effort
and pain. But if this was the thought governing the whole incident the officials were doomed
to suffer bitter disappointment. The priests, whatever they may have thought, silently accepted
the inevitable, and displayed as much diligence in filling the pit as they had shown a few
hours before in digging it.

Still the afternoon's shovelling caused them greater physical hardship than the plying of the
pick in the morning. They had been denied a mid-day meal, and their age-enfeebled physique
proved barely equal to the toil. A basin of black acorn coffee and a small fragment of hard
brown bread cannot by any manner of means be construed into strong sustenance for such a full
day's work. During the afternoon one or two were on the verge of collapse from hunger and fatigue.
But their indomitable spirit kept them up and the pit was duly filled.

By the time the labour had been completed the evening was advancing. For the fourth time that
day they shouldered their burden of tools and set out on the three miles tramp to camp.

We saw them come in and our hearts went out in pity to them. They tottered rather than walked,
their heads bowed as if in prayer, and their crosses of tools sinking them nearer to the ground.
Seeing that they had walked twelve miles and had put in some eight hours gruelling work it
was a marvel that the older members of the party had not fallen by the wayside. Yet, although
footsore, weary, worn, and hungry they retained their characteristic composure. In silence
they discussed their frugal evening meal of lukewarm black acorn coffee and black bread. Some
of us, out of sheer sympathy, secured some "brötchen" for them, but they accepted our expressions
of fellow-feeling very sparingly, although with extreme thankfulness.

They refused to say a word about their sufferings or the agonies they had experienced during
their labour and long walk. I got the story from one of the guards who had accompanied them.
But even these thick-skinned disciples of "kultur" and brutality were not disposed to be communicative.
The stoicism, grim determination and placidity of the Reverend Fathers constituted something
which their square heads and addled brains failed to understand. They had never experienced
the like.

While Major Bach never repeated the senseless pit-digging and refilling programme for the priests,
his invention was by no means exhausted. Direct incentive to rebellion proving completely abortive
he now resorted to indirect pettifogging and pin-pricking tactics, harassing the unfortunate
priests at every turn, depriving them of food or something else, reducing their rations, giving
them the most repulsive work he could discover, and so forth. But it was all to no purpose.
Those twenty-two priests beat him at every turn. For Major Bach to try to break their proud
spirit was like asking a baby to bend a bar of steel!

What ultimately became of these prisoners I cannot say. In fact, I do not think there is any
one who can definitely relate their fate. Other prisoners now commenced to arrive in increasing
numbers and the breaking-in of these crowds to the tyranny and brutal existence of Sennelager
Camp appeared to demand the complete attention of the authorities. Certainly the new arrivals
provided Major Bach with all the entertainment he desired.

Some say that the priests were distributed among other camps; others that one or two succumbed
to the persistent ill-treatment meted out to them; and still more that they are yet at Sennelager.
No one can say precisely. Only one fact remains. For a time they occupied the sole attention
of every one in the camp because they constituted the most prominent target for the fiendish
devilry of Major Bach. Then they suddenly appeared to slip into oblivion. The probability is
that they were swallowed up among the hundreds of French, British, Russians, Poles, Serbians,
and various other races who were now pouring in. Being somewhat retiring in their nature the
probability is that the priests were overlooked and forgotten in that troublous maelstrom of
outraged humanity known far and wide as Sennelager Camp.

CHAPTER X

TYING PRISONERS TO THE STAKE--THE FAVOURITE PUNISHMENT

Until the coming of Major Bach at Sennelager confinement to cells constituted the general punishment
for misdemeanours, the sentence varying according to the gravity of the offence. But mere solitary
confinement in a hole in which perpetual twilight prevailed during the day did not coincide
with Major Bach's principles of ruling with a rod of iron. It was too humane; even the most
savage sentence of "cells" did not inflict any physical pain upon the luckless prisoner.

Major Bach was a past-master in the grim art of conceiving new and novel methods to worry and
punish those who were so unfortunate as to be under his thumb. He was devilishly ingenious
and fertile in the evolution of ways and means to make us feel our position as acutely as possible.
I really think that he must have lain awake for hours at night thinking out new schemes for
inflicting punishment upon us, or else must have been possessed of an excellent and comprehensive
encyclopædic dictionary dealing with the uncanny and fiendish atrocities devised by the Chinese.
I do not doubt for a moment that, if he dared, he would have introduced some of the most ferocious
tortures which for centuries have been characteristic of the Land of the Dragon. We were absolutely
helpless and completely in his hands. He knew this full well and consequently, being a despot,
he wielded autocratic power according to his peculiar lights as only a full-blooded Prussian can.

One evening the French military prisoners were being marched into camp at the conclusion of
the day's work. Among them was a Zouave. Half-starved from an insufficiency of food he could
scarcely drag one foot before the other. At last he dropped out from sheer fatigue. The guard
struck him with the butt end of his rifle and roughly ordered him to get up and keep step and
pace with his comrades. The Zouave pleaded that he really could not walk another step because
he felt so weak and ill. The guard thereupon pulled the wretched prisoner to his feet and gave
him a heavy blow across his back.

This unwarranted action stung the Zouave to frenzy. Clenching his teeth he sprung towards his
tormentor with his fist raised in the air. But second thoughts prevailing he refrained from
delivering the blow which he had premeditated. The menace, however, did not fail to exercise
its effect upon the bullying guard who instantly became an arrant coward. The Zouave's action
was so unexpected that the soldier was taken completely by surprise. He commenced to yell as
if he had been actually struck, and his vociferous curses, reaching the ears of his comrades,
brought speedy assistance. They rushed up, secured the Zouave, who was glaring fiercely at
his tormentor, pinioned his arms behind him, and then marched him off to the Commanding Officer
with all the speed they could command.

The grave charge of insubordination and attempting to strike the guard was proffered. Major
Bach listened closely and when he had heard the story, which needless to say was somewhat freely
embroidered, curtly sentenced the Zouave to "four hours at the post!" This was the first occasion
upon which we had heard of this punishment and naturally we were somewhat agog with curiosity
to discover the character of this latest means of dealing out correction.

Escorted by four guards with loaded rifles and fixed bayonets, the unhappy Zouave was led to
a post just outside our barrack. One of the soldiers stood on either side of the prisoner ready
to run him through should he make an attempt to escape or to resist. The other two guards,
discarding their rifles, uncoiled a length of rope which they were carrying.

The prisoner's hands were forced behind his back and his wrists were tied tightly together,
the rope being drawn so taut as to cut deeply into the flesh and to cause the unhappy wretch
to shriek. He was now backed against the post round which the rope was passed. His ankles were
then tied as tightly as his wrists and also strapped to the post, which action drew another
yell of pain from the victim. Finally another length of the rope was passed round the upper
part of his body, lashing him firmly to the support to prevent him falling forward.

Trussed and tied the unhappy prisoner was left to undergo his four hours' sentence of this
ordeal. The soldiers returned to their quarters, but as a preliminary precaution, as we were
undeniably showing signs of resentment against such torturing treatment, we were bustled into
our barracks. But we could not rest or sleep. The hapless man at the stake was being racked
and torn with pain. His shrieks, moans, and groans, echoing and re-echoing through the still
hours of the summer evening, sounded so weird, uncanny, and nerve-racking as to make our blood
run cold. At each outburst we shivered and strove hard, though vainly, to shut out the terrible
sounds from our ears.

After the Zouave had been strung up for some time I decided to creep out and up to him to ascertain
from direct close observation the effects of this treatment upon the victim. Stealing out of
the barracks, thereby running the risk of encountering a bullet from the sentry's rifle, I
stealthily made my way to the post. By the time I gained the spot the weak wretch was in a
fearful plight. The ropes had been drawn so tightly round his wrists and ankles as to cause
the circulation of the blood through the hands and feet to cease, while the flesh immediately
above the knots was swelling up in a fearful manner. All sense of feeling in the hands and
feet having gone, the man was hanging limply, instead of standing against the post. He writhed
and twisted in frenzied efforts to secure some relief while in this uncomfortable position,
but each movement only caused further pain and the unintentional utterance of piercing shrieks.
Upon the exhaustion of this spasm the upper part of his body dropped forward slightly so that
his head fell down upon his chest.

For a few seconds he would stand or rather hang, perfectly still and quiet. Then as he made
another attempt to secure a change of position shafts of pain would shoot through him, causing
him to shriek again for a few seconds in the most agonising manner, which made me start and
shiver. While his shrieks were terrifying it was the long-drawn out wail and moan in which
they ended which were more unnerving. They sounded like the agonised howls of an animal caught
in a trap and suffering untold torment.

But each successive outburst grew weaker. The body dropped more and more forward until it could
fall no farther owing to the retaining rope. His head dropped lower and lower upon his chest,
which had the effect of interfering with respiration. The man would throw his head wildly about
in frantic efforts to breathe, but to little purpose. His face commenced to assume a ghastly
bluish colour; his distended eyes almost started from his head; while his mouth, now wide open,
allowed his tongue to loll and roll in a manner vividly reminiscent of a maniac restrained
in a strait jacket. The struggles and cries grew fainter until at last his head gave a final
jerk to hang limply to one side. He shrieked no more. Insensibility had come to his relief.

During this period the guard never ventured to come to look at him. His piercing shrieks, howls,
and long-drawn out moans told them that he was feeling the pinch of his confinement to the
post. But when these cries of agony ceased two of the guards came up. Seen to be unconscious,
he was immediately released to fall like a log to the ground. Buckets of water were hurriedly
fetched and the contents were dashed over the prone figure until consciousness returned. When
he had somewhat recovered, although still inert and groaning piteously, he was propped up against
the post and re-tied into position.

Every time the man relapsed into insensibility he was released to undergo drastic reviving
by the aid of buckets of water, and directly he came to he was again strapped up. The sentence
was "four hours," and it was fulfilled strictly to the letter, but only the actual periods
of being tied to the post were taken into consideration. It did not matter whether the man
fainted three or thirty times during his sentence. It was only the instalments of time against
the post which in the aggregate were taken to represent the full term of the punishment.

As may be supposed, owing to the recurring periods of insensibility, the duration of the sentence
became prolonged. In about two hours after being strung up for the first time the initial spasm
of unconsciousness would occur, although the intervention of insensibility obviously varied
according to the strength and physical endurance of the prisoner. But after the first revival,
and owing to the man being deprived of the opportunity to regain his normal condition, the
lapses into unconsciousness occurred at steadily decreasing intervals of time until at last
the man was absolutely unable to battle against his torment and Nature for more than a very
short period.

The first demonstration of this punishment did not fail to exercise a far-reaching influence
upon the other prisoners. Major Bach was beside himself with delight. Even he, steeped although
he was in brutality, was evidently somewhat surprised by the effectiveness of this penalty,
and he laughed loud and long at the shrieks and misery of the unhappy Zouave. Henceforth committal
to the cells was no longer to constitute a punishment at Sennelager. Tying to the stake was
the most complete means of subjugating and cowing the prisoners.

As might be expected, one and all of us dreaded such a sentence, and we were exceedingly diligent
and painstaking in our efforts to keep in the good graces of the Commanding Officer. The dread
of being sentenced to a spell at the post, and submission to the untold agony which it precipitated,
broke us in to all intents and purposes to a degree which must have exceeded even Major Bach's
most sanguine expectations. But now we were faced with another and far more formidable danger.
Most of the guards enjoyed as enthusiastically as their lord and master the agony of a luckless
wretch who was condemned to this punishment. To them it afforded amusement of the most exhilarating
character. But the prisoners, now thoroughly intimidated, took every precaution to deny the
guards an opportunity for which they were so much on the alert. Consequently, being deprived
of the chance to have any of us strung up on legitimate grounds, they commenced to harass and
exasperate us in the hope of provoking some action which would bring us before the Commanding
Officer to receive a sentence to the stake. Then, being completely foiled in this nefarious
practice they did not hesitate to have us arraigned upon the most flimsy charges. As the prisoner
was denied all opportunity to rebut any charge preferred against him, and as his word was never
accepted before the studiously prepared complaint of the guard, who was always careful to secure
corroborative evidence, the chances of escaping the sentence were extremely slender.

The second victim of this brutal treatment was a Russian Pole, and no man ever deserved it
less. The Pole was entering his barrack and the Russian orderly who had just washed and cleaned
the floor, upbraided his compatriot for entering the building with muddy boots. There was a
breezy altercation between the two men for a few minutes, but they were separated on perfectly
friendly terms by one of the soldiers. The incident was closed and dismissed from the thoughts
of one and all. At least so thought all those who had witnessed it.

But one of the soldiers who had been a spectator saw the opportunity for which he had long
been searching. He hurried to the non-commissioned officer in charge of the guard to report,
exaggeratedly, that two Russian prisoners had been fighting. The non-commissioned officer,
one of the most brutal and despicable Prussians in the camp, seized his rifle and hurried to
the Russian barrack. Here the two suppositious delinquents were pointed out. He went up to
the Pole, and grabbing him by the shoulder, roared:

"You've been fighting!"

The Pole protested that he had not been fighting with anyone. He had forgotten all about the
spirited argument with the orderly. Certainly the altercation was no more serious than thousands
of other such outbreaks which were incidental to the camp. Incidents of this character occurred
every few minutes in every barrack, which was not surprising seeing that we were all keyed
to a high pitch of fretfulness while tempers were hasty.

"Don't lie to me," shouted the non-commissioned officer, who was decidedly infuriated by the
Pole's complacent attitude. "I say you've been fighting!"

Again the Pole meekly explained that no such encounter had taken place. At this protest the
officer grabbed the inoffensive prisoner and marched him off to the office of the Commandant.
While hurrying along the main road through the camp the Prussian, for no reason whatever, raised
his rifle by the muzzle, swung it over his head and brought the stock down with fearful force
upon the Pole's back. The man himself fell like an ox before the poleaxe, but the rifle flew
into two pieces. Seeing that a rifle is exceedingly strongly made and of hard wood, the fact
that it snapped in twain testifies abundantly to the force of the blow.

The attack was witnessed, not only by several of us, but also by two or three officers as well.
The latter expostulated with the non-commissioned officer upon his action. As for ourselves
our gorge rose at this savage onslaught, and we hurried to the Commandant with the object of
being first to narrate the incident. He listened to our story of the outrage but refused to
be convinced. We persisted and mentioned that the officers had been present and could support
our statements. But the latter, naturally perhaps, declined to confirm our story. They denied
having seen the blow struck. Still, we were so emphatic and persevering that Major Bach, in
order to settle the matter, sent for the non-commissioned officer to whom he referred the accusation
we had made.

This worthy listened with a smile lurking round his mouth. When Major Bach had completed his
statement, the non-commissioned officer, with a mocking laugh, denied the charge, and presented
his rifle for Major Bach's inspection. The rifle was perfectly sound! At the production of
this rebutting evidence Major Bach gave us a queer look, insisted that we had trumped up the
charge, and refused to listen to us any further. So we were compelled to go away crestfallen
and yet amazed as to how the guilty officer had surmounted his difficulty.

Subsequently we discovered that the non-commissioned officer, thoroughly alarmed at his rifle
snapping in twain, not knowing how he would be able to explain the circumstance of his weapon
being broken, and having heard that we had hastened to the Commandant to lodge our complaint,
darted into the guard-room, concealed the conclusive evidence of his guilt, and appropriated
the sound rifle of a comrade. This was the weapon he had produced before Major Bach so triumphantly.
We never heard how the non-commissioned officer ultimately explained away his broken rifle
upon parade when the trick was certain to be discovered, but bearing in mind the iron method
which prevails in the German army he must have been hard put to it to have advanced a plausible
excuse when arraigned. Doubtless there was considerable trouble over the episode but we never
heard anything more about it, although we would have dearly loved to have been acquainted with
the sequel.

Foiled in our attempt to secure redress for an outraged prisoner we considered the episode
closed. But it was not. Directly we had left the office Major Bach sent for the Pole who had
been attacked. He related his story which was naturally a confirmation of our charge. But he
was set down as an unprincipled liar, and one of whom an example must be made. Forthwith he
was condemned to four hours at the post on the charge of fighting and endeavouring to impugn
the probity of the German guard, who can do no wrong.

The misery endured by this poor wretch is indescribable. In this instance, in order to secure
enhanced effect, according to the lights of Major Bach, the prisoner was forced to stand on
tip-toe against the post, while the upper rope was passed around his neck. This rope was left
somewhat loose, and as nearly as I can describe, was looped in the form of a double knot. Being
on tip-toe the hapless wretch was speedily transferred, by his toes giving way, to a hanging
position. His head fell forward, as he gradually lapsed into unconsciousness, until it pressed
against the restraining slip-knot. The consequence was that he suffered the agonies of slow
strangulation in addition to the searing of his hands and ankles, while the weight of his body
dragged his neck more tightly than otherwise would have been the case, against the upper rope.
His face presented a terrifying sight, being quite blue, from his inability to breathe, except
with the greatest difficulty. His mouth was wide open and his tongue, which protruded, was
exceedingly swollen. His eyes were half out of their sockets. But he had to serve the sentence
of four hours, and although he became unconscious time after time and had to be released, water
always brought him to his senses to undergo a further spell upon the fiendish rack until the
sentence had been well and truly served.

On one occasion a poor wretch condemned to this torture, after having become unconscious, was
taken down, revived, and incarcerated for the night in the guard-room. The next morning he
was marched out again and re-tied up to complete his sentence.

Major Bach, as if suddenly inspired, conceived a fiendish means of accentuating the agony of
a prisoner condemned to this punishment. The man would be tied to the post about the middle
of the morning. The summer sun beat fiercely upon the post and the man's hat was removed. Consequently,
as the poor wretch's head dropped forward on his chest, its crown became exposed to the fierce
heat of the sun. Thus to the pain of the torture inflicted by the tightly tied ropes, and the
strangling sensation produced by the throat pressing against the restraining rope, was added
the racking torment of intolerable heat playing upon a sensitive part of the human body. The
astonishing wonder is that none of the unhappy wretches suffered sun-stroke or went crazy while
bound up in this manner, because the sun's heat intensely aggravated the agonies of thirst.
But the sun-bath consummated Major Bach's greatest ambition. It caused the victim to writhe
and twist more frantically, which in turn forced him to shriek and howl more vociferously and
continuously.

When a prisoner was in the height of his torment the eminent Commandant would stroll up, and
from a couple of paces away would stand, legs wide apart and hands clasped behind his back,
surveying the results of his devilry with the greatest self-satisfaction. As the prisoner groaned
and moaned he would fling coarse joke, badinage, and gibe at the helpless wretch, and when
the latter struggled and writhed in order to seek some relief, though in vain, he would laugh
uproariously, urge the unhappy man to kick more energetically, and then shriek with delight
as his advice was apparently taken to heart only to accentuate the torture.

Sunday was the day of days which the tyrant preferred for meting out this punishment. In the
first place it was a day of rest, and so a prisoner's time and labour were not lost. Even if
he were strung up to the post all day he could be turned out to work on the Monday morning
as usual. But the governing reason for the selection of this day was because it offered such
a novel entertainment for the gaping German crowds. The public, as already mentioned, were
invited to the camp on Sunday mornings to see the prisoners. Young girls and raw recruits considered
a trip to Sennelager on the chance of seeing a writhing, tortured prisoner as one of the delights
of the times, and a sight which should not be missed on any account.

They clustered on the path on the opposite side of the road facing the stake, laughing and
joking among themselves. The recruits, who openly manifested their intense amusement, cheered
frantically when the trussed wretch gave an abnormally wild and ear-piercing shriek of pain.
At his moans, groans, and desperate abortive attempts to release himself, the girls would laugh
as gaily as if witnessing the antics of a clown at a circus, and were quite unrestrained in
their jubilant applause. This was the feature of the punishment which grated upon the nerves
of the prisoners who were unable to lift a finger or voice a word in protest. That a fellow-prisoner
should be condemned to suffer such hellish torture as was inflicted was bad enough, but that
it should offer a side-show to exuberant Sunday German holiday crowds we considered to be the
height of our humiliation and a crown to our sufferings.

I shall never forget one prisoner. He was one of our loyal dusky Colonials from the Gold Coast,
who had been so unfortunate as to fall into German hands and to be consigned to imprisonment
at Sennelager. He was a massive and imposing specimen of his race. He fell foul of authority
and incurred Major Bach's displeasure to such a degree as to receive a sentence of eight hours
bound to a tree. He was tied up, and his pleadings for mercy, prompted by madness produced
by the excruciating pain and semi-consciousness, alternated with loud outbreaks of long-drawn-out,
blood-freezing groans, frenzied shrieks, and nerve-racking wails.

As the torture increased with the passing of the hours he gave expression to one solitary cry--"For
God's sake shoot me!" The wail, uttered with parrot-like repetition and in a tone which bored
into the soul, stirred the prisoners within earshot in a strange manner. They clapped their
hands over their ears to shut out the awful sound, and shut their eyes to prevent the revolting
spectacle burning into their brains. The man's face was livid: terror such as it is impossible
to describe was in his face; the unrelenting clutch of the rope wearing into his throat caused
the veins of his neck to stand out like ropes; while streams of perspiration poured down his
face. As he became weaker and weaker and the rope ground deeper and deeper into his throat
his fights for breath became maniacal in their fury. Indeed, the revolting sight so moved some
of the prisoners that the tears welled to their eyes, and it was only by digging their teeth
into their lips that they refrained from succumbing to their emotion.

Subsequently, whenever I mentioned a word about the tying-post or tree, this Colonial would
look round, with the unfathomable fear of a hunted animal, his nerves would jump and twitch,
and the saliva would form like foam around his mouth. He remarked that he was willing to face
any punishment. But the tying post! An hour in the bonds of those ropes! He shuddered and entreatingly
prayed that if ever again he should be threatened with this punishment one of the guards would
shoot him, or run him through with the bayonet. I really believe that, if this penalty had
been pronounced on this man a second time, he would have done something so desperate as would
have compelled summary and drastic retaliation by force of arms.

Major Bach was methodical in his sentences to the tying-post. He drew up a regular code and
the offender was always given a sentence in accordance with this schedule. The slightest offence
brought a sentence of two hours. Then in stages of two hours it rose to the maximum of eight
hours. I heard that one man had been tied up for twelve hours, but as I did not actually witness
the case I cannot vouch for its particulars. The instances I have mentioned came before my
notice and can be corroborated by anyone who had the misfortune to be incarcerated at Sennelager
after the coming of Major Bach. But knowing as I do Major Bach and his inhuman and ferocious
ways, I am quite ready to believe that he did sentence a man to twelve hours at the post. Certainly
he would never have hesitated for a moment to exact such a penalty if he had felt so disposed.

After a time the single post failed to satisfy the implacable Commandant. Trees were requisitioned
for the punishment, and I have seen as many as three men undergoing the sentence simultaneously.
Their combined shrieks and agonised cries penetrated to every corner of the camp. One could
not escape them. On one occasion when Major Bach was standing as usual before one of his victims,
laughing and jeering at his futile writhings and agonised appeals for mercy, a number of British
prisoners who were standing around in mute sympathy for the hapless comrade could not control
their feelings. Suddenly they gave expression to fierce hissing of disapproval. Major Bach
turned, but not with the mocking triumph that one would have expected. His face wore the look
of the characteristic bully who is suddenly confronted with one who is more than his match.
He was taken completely off his guard, so unexpected and vigorous was our outburst. But when
he saw that he was merely threatened by a few unarmed and helpless Britishers his sang froid
returned, although it was with a palpable effort. He glared at us. There was no disguising
or possibility of misconstruing the expressions of loathsome disgust and rage upon our faces.
One and all wondered afterwards why he did not sentence every man of us to a spell at the post.
Possibly anticipating that things might become ugly unless he manifested some semblance of
authority, he assumed an anger which we could easily see was far from being real, and ordered
us to barracks. We moved away slowly and sullenly, but the guard coming up we were unceremoniously
hurried into our domiciles, although it demanded energetic rifle proddings and clubbings from
the soldiers who swarmed around us in overwhelming numbers, to enforce the order.

This punishment was by no means confined to the civilian prisoners. It was meted out whenever
the opportunity arose to the British soldiers with equal impartiality. But for some reason
which we could never fathom, unless it was to cause further pain, torture and humiliation,
mentally as well as physically, the revolting task of tying up an unfortunate Tommy was entrusted
to one of his own sergeants. He had to perform the repugnant work against his will, but the
sergeants eased the poor fellow's plight as much as they dared by tying them up as leniently
as possible, while they maintained an ever-watchful, although unostentatious vigilance, over
them while suffering the penalty.

By the introduction of this fiendish punishment Major Bach completely subdued the camp into
a colony of crushed men. We all went in dire dread of him, the fear of being the victim of
such brutality cowing us far more effectively than any other punishment we had encountered.
Those who had undergone the torture recited such harrowing stories of their sufferings that
we were extremely anxious not to incur the wrath of the devilish Commandant in any way whatever.

One day three of us experienced a narrow escape, which serves to illustrate how keen were our
captors to submit us to this crucial test. We three had been ordered to the field. We packed
our few belongings, including our tin pails and other indispensable utensils upon our backs.
We were marching abreast and a few paces behind a young German officer, chatting merrily among
ourselves, when we met a French soldier approaching. He was unusually gay and as he passed
he yelled out the popular enquiry which he had evidently acquired while fraternising with our
Tommies in the camp.

"Air ve do'n harted?" he hailed, and he laughed gaily at the loads with which we were struggling.
To this we returned an emphatic negative to which one of the party, S----, a schoolmaster who
was fluent in French and German, added a joke. Evidently the Frenchman saw the point of the
jest because he burst out in a fit of unrestrained merriment which was so infectious as to
compel us to participate.

The officer who was ahead of us, whipped round and vehemently declared that we were laughing
at him. S---- protested and explained that such would be the very last thing we should ever
think of doing. The officer went on ahead quite unconvinced and in high dudgeon. That we should
select one of the myrmidons of the All-Highest as a target for our banter was the offence of
offences in his estimable conceit. When we reached the entrance to the field we had to pass
a small office in which we were registered and we discovered the immature upstart loudly and
excitedly dwelling upon the enormous indignity to which he had been submitted by us.

The officer in charge stopped us and repeated the accusation which had been made. S---- gave
a full explanation of the whole incident, but the upstart who considered that his pride had
been vilely outraged would not listen to it. Then and there he ordered that we should be tied
up to the trees for four hours to give us something to laugh about. I can assure you that we
trembled in our shoes: our fate hung in the balance. The officer-in-charge of the field, however,
was more level-headed and broader-minded, although he could not calm his excited colleague.
At last he point blank refused to mete out the desired punishment. He turned to us.

"I accept your explanation. I don't think you would be guilty of such an offence to German
honour and dignity!"

We were more profuse than ever in our humble apologies to the young cock-of-the-walk for any
offence we might have committed unwittingly but we assured him that our mirth had been entirely
provoked by the gay French soldier's joke.

"I believe you," was the officer's reply, "but be very careful. Don't do it again. As you see
it is likely to be misunderstood!"

With that he dismissed us. We scurried off like startled rabbits, thankful for our narrow escape,
but our last glimpse of the affair was the two officers who had resumed wrangling. It was an
extremely fortunate circumstance for us that the officer-in-charge of the field was one of
the few reasonable Germans attached to the camp.

The wretches who had to suffer this punishment carried traces of their experiences for weeks.
I examined the wrists and ankles of the Russian Pole some hours after his final release. The
limbs were highly inflamed, the flesh being puffed out on either side of the deep blue indents
which had been cut by the tightened ropes. The slightest movement of the affected limbs produced
a sharp spasm of pain and it was only with the greatest difficulty that the poor wretch was
able to use his hands and feet for some hours after removal from the post. In the case of the
Russian Pole many weeks elapsed before all traces of the terrible weals inflicted by the ropes
had disappeared.

When we grasped the depths to which Prussian brutality was ready and willing to descend, we
could not refrain from dwelling upon probable future tortures which were likely to be in store
for us. We were positive in our own minds that Major Bach would seek other novel and more revolting
and agonising methods to wreak his vengeance upon the British. We were not left for very long
in this maddening uncertainty. Tying-to-the-stake was but a mild prelude to the "Reign of Terror"
which the ferocious Commandant shortly afterwards inaugurated.

CHAPTER XI

THE REIGN OF TERROR

Major Bach, in common with the average Prussian officer, who has suddenly become invested with
a certain degree of authority, evinced a weird delight in emphasising his power at every opportunity.
He was an unbending apostle of steel-bound discipline, such as is practised in Germany.

Until his arrival we were in the habit of parading once a day--at 6 a.m.--with evening parades,
twelve hours later, upon occasion. But Major Bach introduced the third mid-day parade. A little
later he suddenly thought that a fourth parade was necessary, the respective hours being six,
twelve, two, and six. Even this programme did not satisfy his love of power and arrogance,
because at frequent intervals he would suddenly summon two additional parades and for no ostensible
reason, except to harass us.

Parade was probably the most irksome duty we had to fulfil inasmuch as we were then treated
to insults of every description. The Commandant was a martinet of the worst type. We were supposed
to trim ourselves up and to look as spick and span as we could under the circumstances. This
was more particularly demanded when a notable visitor--visitors were few and far between--came
to the camp to perform a perfunctory inspection to satisfy the authorities in Berlin that the
prisoners of war were being well and kindly tended. But some of us were not disposed to bow
meekly to the tyrant's despotic orders. Instead of parading upon such occasions in the white
convict-like suits, which by the way we were supposed and indeed asked to purchase, so that
we might present a smart uniform appearance, we preferred to don our own clothes, although
they were now showing sad signs of wear and tear. Naturally the immaculate Major resented our
refusal to fulfil his bidding, thus producing vivid blemishes upon the prim appearance of the
lines, but we always succeeded in producing an excuse which was so ostensibly reasonable as
to escape his wrath and consignment to some punishment.

The most irritating feature of these parades was the length of time we were kept waiting in
the scorching sun upon the convenience of his "Excellency." To him it was nothing that we should
be kept standing at attention for an hour or more, while the guards, steeped in discipline
as they were, took a fiendish pleasure in keeping us up to the mark. I recall one parade very
vividly. The heat was intense: the thermometer must have been at least 110 degrees in the sun.
We paraded at two o'clock as usual and were brought to attention. Major Bach was momentarily
expected, but he did not come upon the scene until 4.45. For 2¾ hours we were kept in the broiling
sun, and none of us being in the pink of condition owing to the wretched and inadequate food,
we soon commenced to betray signs of fatigue. On this occasion, even the German guards could
not adhere to the disciplinary rule. When we abandoned the rigid attention attitude for others
more or less comfortable they followed our example, although they maintained a discreet alertness
for the coming of the Commandant so that we might be brought to attention before he appeared
upon the scene.

One of the prisoners had been a Japanese trapezist and juggler. He was very old. He said, and
we agreed, he was about 75 years of age. But the German authorities arbitrarily assessed his
age at 54 years, and such it had to be so long as it suited their purpose. He had toured the
vaudeville theatres and music halls in Germany for over 20 years, but he was rounded up, and
despite all his protestations concerning his age was interned at Sennelager.

The age of the poor old fellow was perfectly obvious. He was very weak, and indeed, quite incapable
of performing the most simple duties set by our Lord and Master. K----, the captain of our
barrack--the Jap formed one of our party--recognising the old man's incapacity and infirmities,
eased his unfortunate position as much as he dared. One man had to be detached from each party
when it went out to work, to serve as orderly for the day, and his responsibility was to keep
the barrack clean and tidy during our absence. At every available opportunity, especially when
confronted with a severe day's work, K---- told off the old man as orderly, the light work
pertaining to which was within his capacity.

Upon the day of this particular parade the old man, enfeebled with age, weak from want of food,
and debilitated, could not resist the merciless blazing sun. From sheer fatigue he sank to
the ground. We in our pity left him there, although we closed around him to shield him from
the eagle eyes of the vigilant guard. When Major Bach appeared suddenly we all sprang hurriedly
to attention. But our aged Japanese friend was not so quick. The Commandant saw him sitting
on the ground at the same moment as the guard, also catching sight of him, rushed forward.
The old fellow was unmercifully hustled to his feet, although it was with only an extreme effort
that he could rise. Then he was treated to an outburst of bullying and cursing from the Commandant
such as we had never heard before. He was threatened with this, that, and some other frightful
punishment if he dared to disobey any order in future. The old man, his legs bent and quaking
beneath him, listened with a pathetically helpless demeanour. The tears coursed down his face
as he shivered beneath the string of oaths, curses, and imprecations that were rained upon
him. Many of us feared that he would be condemned for four hours to the tying post, so infuriated
was the despot of the camp, but he escaped this terrible ordeal.

About four weeks after we had entered Sennelager permission was extended to those who felt
so disposed to enjoy the luxury of an open-air bath. Seeing that we never had the chance of
more than a wash in the bucket at the pump, and were in urgent need of a dip, we accepted the
offer with alacrity. We were escorted under strong guard to a stream some distance from the
barracks and were given a quarter of an hour for our pleasure. We hurriedly tore off our clothes
and took advantage of every minute to have a roaring joyous time in the water. Thoroughly refreshed
we were marched back to camp and told off to our various duties.

By this time every man in the camp had been assigned to some particular task. Major Bach did
not encourage idleness; it only fomented brooding and moping over our position, was his argument.
But he was also a staunch believer in forced labour, which was quite a different thing. Consequently
we found ourselves condemned to some of the most filthy tasks conceivable. Incidentally, however,
these duties only served to reveal still more convincingly the hollowness of Germany's preachings
concerning the principles of health and hygiene to the whole world while herself practising
the diametrically opposite. We were commanded to clean out the military hospital.

Now, if there is one building among others in which one would expect to discover scrupulous
cleanliness it is a hospital, but this accommodation provided for the German recruits was in
an indescribably filthy condition. The conveniences for the patients were in a deplorable state.
They had neither been disinfected nor cleaned for months. Fæcal matter and other filth had
been left to dry, harden and adhere with the tenacity of glue to the surfaces. Its removal
not only taxed our strength to the supreme degree, but our endurance as well. The stench was
suffocating and nauseating. Even the foul aroma of the strong cheap German tobacco which we
were able to purchase at the canteen and to smoke while at this task, if our sentry were genial,
failed to smother the more powerful and penetrating foul vapours which arose directly water
was applied.

We were also assigned to the repugnant duty of cleaning out the latrines, which were of the
most primitive character, and which coincided with the facilities which one might anticipate
among savages but not in such a boasting civilised country as Germany. Both these duties were
loathsome, but I am afraid no one engaged on the tasks would be able to express a conclusive
opinion as to which was the worse.

The duties being so varied, operations often took us a little way from the camp. The chance
to get away even for a brief period from our depressing and monotonous surroundings was seized
with avidity. Unfortunately, we feared that this system of forced labour would culminate in
our being assigned to the work of tending the crops. But we made up our minds irrevocably to
do no such thing no matter how we might be punished. The Germans had failed to nourish us in
an adequate manner, and we were certainly not going to enable them to secure a sufficiency
of food at our expense. Indeed, the one or two attempts which were made to impress us to toil
on the land, proved highly disastrous because considerable damage was inflicted from our ignorance
of agriculture and gardening.

Some of us were given the garden which belonged to the old General who had been in charge at
Sennelager when we first arrived, to keep in condition. This official was an enthusiastic amateur
gardener and cherished a great love for flowers. Seeing that during his régime we had received
considerate treatment within limitations, we cherished no grudge against him. Again, the fact
that his garden was to be kept going led us to hope that the duration of Major Bach's reign
over us was merely temporary and that our former guardian would soon be returning. We knew
that in such an event our lot would be rendered far easier, so we nursed his little plot of
ground with every care and displayed just as much interest in its welfare as if it had been
our own. But the old General never came back to Sennelager, at least not during my period of
imprisonment there.

There was one party of British prisoners whom Major Bach singled out for especially harsh and
brutal treatment. The invincible High Seas Fleet upon one of its sporadic ventures into salt
water during the very earliest days of the war, stumbled across a fleet of Grimsby trawlers
unconcernedly pursuing their usual peaceful occupation. The whole of the fishermen were made
prisoners and were dispatched to Sennelager.

But Major Bach stedfastly refused to believe that they were simple fishermen pursuing their
ordinary tasks. To his narrow and distorted mind a man on a trawler was only toiling in the
sea for one or both of two purposes. The one was laying mines; the other was mine-sweeping.
Consequently he decided to mark these unfortunate hardened sea-salts in a distinguishing manner
which was peculiarly his own, thereby rendering them conspicuous and possible of instant recognition,
while in the event of an escape being attempted, no difficulty would be experienced in identifying
and catching the runaways. Each man was submitted to the indignity of having one half of his
head shaved clean, one half of his moustache removed, or one half of his beard cut away. The
men branded in this manner presented a strange spectacle, and one which afforded Major Bach
endless amusement. In addition a flaming big "Z" was printed boldly upon the back of the coat
of each man. This letter comprises the initial of the German word "zivil," and means that the
wearer is neither a criminal nor a military prisoner. It will be observed, however, that the
Commandant declined to recognise these fishermen as being naval prisoners, which somewhat contradicted
his assertion concerning their alleged crime. At a subsequent date, I might mention, every
civilian prisoner was branded with the "Z" in a similar manner.

These fishermen were watched very closely, were hunted and harassed at every turn without mercy,
and all things considered, experienced an abnormally hard time. Up to the day of my release
from Ruhleben on December 6, 1915, but one of those old salts had been released, and had been
returned to his country. We were informed at Sennelager that the authorities were determined,
at all hazards, to keep these "diabolical fiends" as they were termed, in durance vile, until
the termination of the war. However, one of them fell seriously ill after his transference
from Sennelager to Ruhleben. His condition became so serious as to bring about his hurried
exchange, the authorities dreading that he would die while in their charge, and thus adversely
affect the low death-rate reputation of a German prison camp!

Our hair was growing long, owing to the absence of cutting facilities. Mine had almost reached
my shoulders, but I was extremely careful to submit it to a thorough wash every morning because
I shared the fear of many of my companions that, owing to the congestion of the camp, we should
be overrun with vermin. Undoubtedly Major Bach also anticipated such a state of affairs, because
one morning he appeared upon parade with a pair of clippers which he had unearthed from somewhere
and curtly commanded every man to submit to a hair-cut.

The position of official barber to the camp was assigned to an Englishman named L----, who
I think might be accurately described as our official humorist. Armed with this weapon, and
although absolutely ignorant of the new calling thrust upon him, delighted to secure some change
to the monotonous round of toil, L---- entered upon his work with commendable zest. But he
construed the duty into a form of amusement, and played sorry tricks with the heads which came
into his hands. Some he shaved so clean as to present the appearance of a billiard ball, but
others he evidently considered to be worthy of French poodle treatment. He took a humorous
delight in executing some of the most fantastic and weird designs it is possible to imagine,
much to the discomfort and chagrin of his unwilling clients. Still his quaint expression of
craftmanship and artistry contributed somewhat to the restricted hilarity and mirth of the camp.

I, myself, sternly refused to entrust my head to L----'s hands. I naturally thought that I
should receive a smart punishment for thus flying in the face of the autocratic order which
had gone forth, but strange to say I found Major Bach somewhat reasonable on this point. This
is about the only redeeming feature I can offer concerning Major Bach's rule over us. I think,
however, that he was somewhat more closely observant than was generally supposed to be the
case, because those of us who escaped the hair-cutting precaution happened to be the very prisoners
who were unremitting in their efforts to preserve unassailable personal cleanliness. No doubt
L---- was disappointed to be deprived of a few possible heads upon which to demonstrate his
quaint skill, but we succeeded in escaping from his clutches.

Although vermin did overrun the camps, not only of Sennelager, but of other prisons of whose
interiors I made the acquaintance, I can assert truthfully that I was never troubled with the
unsolicited company of body lice, and only once or twice discovered one or two unwelcome strangers
in my hair. The coarse and harsh German soap effectively rendered my hair untenantable. But
some of the prisoners were overwhelmed and presented terrifying spectacles. It was here that
the superiority of the Britisher in matters pertaining to personal hygiene towered over all
the varying races by which he was surrounded, not even excepting the Germans. From our own
experience and observation it was only too palpable that the Teuton soldiers are quite as careless
in this connection as the less enlightened peoples of south-eastern Europe, because they were
as severely infested--if not more so--with vermin.

One of the jobs set to us was making hay in an adjoining field and for the purpose of getting
away from the camp for a few hours many of us volunteered for this toil. The hay had to be
laden upon huge waggons, the load thus easily exceeding that incidental to British hay-making
operations, and this had to be hauled to Paderborn for storage in lofts.

Although I was on the sick list at the time I could not resist the chance to secure a glimpse
of new surroundings and a few strange faces. It was on this occasion that I made my first,
but abortive, attempt to escape. The sentry was dozing in the hot afternoon sun, having found
a soft couch on a haycock. I slunk off towards the trees which surround the camp. Presently
I spotted a sentry. I passed him safely and still keeping to the trees pushed forward, only
to be surprised to discover another sentry standing on watch with his loaded rifle. Him, too,
I eluded, and was congratulating myself upon my success when I was disturbed by the clattering
of approaching horses. I peered through the trees and saw a squadron of cavalry trotting towards
me. I slipped into the undergrowth to throw myself prone under a sheltering bush. The soldiers
passed within twelve feet of me. I held my breath half-dreading that perhaps one of the horses,
scenting something unusual, might give a warning. I kept to my cover until the soldiers had
disappeared from sight. Then I stole out to wander stealthily forward. But I speedily discovered
that the further I got away from the camp the greater the number of cavalry I encountered.
Moreover it was easy to see that manoeuvres and training were proceeding upon an extensive scale.

I realised the hopelessness of attempting to break through such a cordon, so with extreme regret
I decided to make my way back to the hayfield. But the return was more difficult than the outward
journey. I had to slip the guards, who seemed to be uncannily alert and who, if they had caught
the slightest glimpse of me, would have blazed away with their rifles without first yelling
a challenge. But I dodged them all and regaining the field sauntered up towards my guard with
perfect composure. He had missed me and had been looking round to see if I were at a remote
part of the field. As I approached he eyed me quizzically and subjected me to a searching cross-examination
to discover where I had been. But he secured no satisfaction, beyond the sly hint that he had
not noticed me for the simple reason that he had been stealing a snooze. I know he did not
believe the answers I vouchsafed, but I was on safe ground. Had he hauled me before the Commandant
for attempting to escape he knew very well that I should have retorted with the countercharge
that he had been sleeping at his post, in which assertion I should have been supported by my
friends. I held the trump card and he was wise enough to realise the fact. Consequently, beyond
telling me to get on with my work he never ventured another word, nor did his attitude towards
me change in any way.

Afterwards I congratulated myself upon having responded to second thoughts to return to the
camp. I learned that the chances of escaping from Sennelager were most slender. Not only were
we interned in the centre of a big military centre, somewhat comparable to our Aldershot, but
special precautions had been observed to frustrate escape. Sentries were thrown out at distances
of a few hundred yards while the system of overlapping these guardians was of the most elaborate
character. Such a gauntlet was far too precarious and tight to be run with any chances of success.
The hue and cry would have been raised, and have been transmitted to the outer rings of sentries
before one had covered a fourth of the danger zone.

We had to bale the hay on the waggon and when a full load had been stowed aboard it was hauled
away to the lofts. But we had no horses or traction engines to drag the vehicles; every available
beast and machine had been requisitioned for the army. Still this factor did not perturb our
captors. British muscle could be used as a substitute for animals and engines. Accordingly,
about 30 of the imprisoned British tourists were harnessed up to tug the weighty and cumbersome
load over the heavy three miles of road, badgered and baited by the guards. When we slowed
down under the effort, which was pretty exhausting upon a basin of cabbage soup, we were spurred
into the normal pace by the imprecations of the soldiers.

In addition to the men tugging at the shafts two had to ride on top of the load to keep it
in order. The road led through a long avenue, the lower branches of the trees lining which
swept the top of the hay. It taxed all our ingenuity and agility to avoid a mishap. Indeed,
my companion was swept off and thrown into the road with considerable violence, sustaining
severe bruises. It was rather by luck than judgment that I did not share his fate.

When we reached the outskirts of Paderborn the guards called a halt, in order to secure refreshment.
We were also permitted, within limits, to purchase eatables from the shops, for which, needless
to say, we had to pay exorbitantly.

[*large gap] we were able to secure a highly appreciated relief to our monotonous and insufficient
fare.

While the guards were enjoying themselves my companion and I, perched on the top of the load,
became the target for the jokes and gibes of the curious crowd which had collected round the
vehicle. One fellow in the crowd was particularly impertinent and offensive with the result
that we soon became riled. He came close to the side of the wagon to shout some particularly
insulting epithet. With a dexterous movement my friend and I, who had been watching patiently,
severed the band holding a bale and as it flew apart we gave the bale a smart push. It toppled
over the side to fall upon the head of our tormentor with a crash, felling him to the ground
and burying him completely. The guard, whom it missed narrowly, gave a savage curse, but the
fall appeared to be so obviously accidental that he never for a moment considered the incident
to have been premeditated. The bullying, raw-boned young Prussian was extricated with great
difficulty and somewhat battered. His mouth, eyes, nostrils and ears were choked with the hayseeds
and he spluttered, coughed and yelled in a terrifying manner. But he who a minute before had
been so ready with gibes at our expense was now jeered at by his comrades, in which our guards
joined boisterously. We, on the top had to give way to mirth. Although we were compelled to
gather the hay, remake the bale, and reload it upon the vehicle we were so satisfied with our
complete revenge as to perform the task with a light heart.

Whenever we visited Paderborn, or the village of Sennelager, we never omitted to load ourselves
up with whatever food we could purchase. Those who did not accompany us invariably gave us
the wherewithal to secure victuals for them.

[*large gap]

At first the shop-keepers were not disposed to deal with us, no doubt fearing that they would
be charged with complicity in these transactions. [*gap]

As our visits became more frequent all hesitation upon the part of the tradesmen vanished,
and they accepted our money without the slightest demur. We speedily discovered that the most
rabid anti-British and wildly patriotic German shopkeeper always succumbs to business. When
patriotism is pitted against pounds, shillings and pence, patriotism can go hang.

[*large gap]

One of Major Bach's most diabolical acts of savagery was the closing of the canteens in the
camp to prisoners. This was the last straw, because now we were compelled to subsist upon the
slender and disgusting fare served from the official cook-house. This doubtless was the express
reason which influenced the Commandant in his action. But we were not disposed to allow him
to have things all his own way. He promulgated the order but it had to be enforced by his myrmidons.
We found that the canteen was still available to the guards, so forthwith we resorted to corruption
to evade Major Bach's decree. The guards having us in their mercy, bled us unmercifully, the
most trivial articles being procurable only at an extravagant price. I paid a shilling for
a loaf which I could always obtain before the closing order came into force for twopence! Other
articles were in proportion.

But closing the canteens drew the cordon round our stomachs immeasurably tighter. It was not
long before the fiendish decree betrayed its fruits. Gaunt figures with pinched faces and staring
wolfish eyes slunk about the camp ready to seize anything in the form of food. Our physique
fell away, and those already reduced to weakness suffered still further debilitation. Many
failed to muster the strength necessary to fulfil the tasks allotted to them. Gradual, systematic
and deliberate starvation of the prisoners was prosecuted in grim earnest.

Yet the British prisoners accepted the inevitable with a far more cheerful resignation than
the others. Undoubtedly it is a decided trait of the British character never to be cast down
when brought face to face with disaster. Our boys were quite as resourceful as Major Bach,
although in the opposite direction--to keep ourselves alive. Whenever any of us went out and
came within reach of a field growing vegetable crops we did not hesitate to raid it. Supplies
of raw carrots, onions, potatoes, turnips and any other roots in the edible line were smuggled
into the barracks. Late at night, after all lights had been extinguished and we were supposed
to be asleep, we were sitting up munching quietly away at these spoils of war with as much
gusto and enthusiasm as if enjoying a table d'hôte dinner in the luxury of a crack West End hotel.

One day one of our party came in with a cucumber. Where or how he had got it we never knew,
and what is more we did not trouble to enquire. The fact that we had come into possession of
a dainty sufficed. We fell upon it with a relish which it is impossible to describe. It was
divided among us in accordance with our accepted communal practice, and I do not think any
article which we secured in Sennelager was ever eaten with such wholehearted enjoyment as that
cucumber. But the incident was not free from its touch of pathos. When we sat down to the cucumber
we carefully peeled it and threw the rind away. Two days later two others and myself set out
to recover that cucumber rind which had been discarded, the pinch about the waist-belt having
become insistent. We found it, soiled and shrivelled, but we ate it ravenously.

Major Bach may have wondered why the British civil prisoners did not reveal signs of semi-starvation
so readily as those of other nationalities. But we had long since discovered that it was useless
to go about the camp with long faces and the bearing of the "All-is-Lost Brigade." We were
almost entirely dependent upon our own ingenuity to keep ourselves alive, and we succeeded.
The methods adopted may be criticised, but in accordance with the inexorable first law of Nature
we concluded that the end justified any means.

CHAPTER XII

THE REIGN OF TERROR--CONTINUED

While for the most part we had been compelled to labour upon sundry duties, we were not hard
pushed, being somewhat in the position of the workmen toiling by the hour, except that our
efforts went unrewarded in a financial sense. But this system did not coincide with the ideas
of Major Bach.

He paraded us one morning and assuming his favourite attitude before us treated us to a little
homily. It was a characteristic tirade delivered in the conventional Teuton gramophone manner.
But it affected us materially.

Now we were to become slaves in very truth!

The Commandant informed us point-blank that he was extremely dissatisfied with our manner of
working. We were too slow: we nursed our tasks. Did we think we were being kept at Sennelager
for the benefit of our health or to make holiday? If so that was a fond delusion. Henceforth
he was going to estimate a certain time for each task which would have to be completed within
the period allowed, even if we had to work every hour God gave us and, if need be, on Sundays
as well.

Major Bach never minced matters: he meant every word he said. So upon being dismissed we returned
to our barracks looking decidedly glum. Pressure was being applied at every turn now, and it
was becoming a pressure which could be felt.

We were soon notified as to the first task which we were to rush through on "contract" time.
A big fence was required to enclose a certain area of the camp, and this was to be erected,
together with the necessary gates and other details within fourteen days. If we could complete
it within a shorter time no complaint would be raised. But he would not allow another day beyond
his limit. Major Bach must have been a masterpiece in this particular phase of human endeavour,
inasmuch as his anticipated period, as we learned, could not have been reduced by a single day.

The prisoners were divided into gangs, each of which was allotted to a definite operation.
Although the erection of this fence constituted the hardest enterprise which we had ever taken
in hand we did not flinch. Somehow or other we considered that Major Bach had given expression
to an unwarrantable reflection upon our abilities. He practically considered us to be no more
nor less than slackers. Well! We would show him what we could do, although prisoners, denied
every possible comfort, and half-starved into the bargain. Every man undertook to exert himself
to the utmost and to do his level best.

No facilities whatever were extended to us beyond the most primitive of tools. One party was
sent into the adjacent woods to fell suitable trees to serve as posts, to trim them of branches,
and to the required length of 10 feet. Then they had to be carried by manual effort into the
camp where the butt was chamfered and charred in a wood fire as a protection against too rapid
decay.

While the posts were being prepared a second party was busily engaged in digging the holes
for them. Each hole had to be of a prescribed diameter, by one metre--about 3 feet--in depth,
and they were set a certain distance apart. Tree-felling might have been, and undoubtedly was,
hard work to inexperienced hands, but hole digging! That was set down as the unassailable limit.
Driving the pick and shovel in the rebellious ground was back-breaking in the hot sun and it
had to be maintained without pause or slackening.

When the post had been planted the wire-pulling gang came along. The wire used for the purpose
was galvanised netting such as is used to enclose chicken runs, game preserves, and tennis
grounds, reinforced by one or two equidistantly spaced lines of ordinary wire. It had to be
stretched taut by hand and moving the heavy roll by manual effort and uncoiling it as we advanced,
demanded not only strength but dexterity. At each post the wire was attached by the aid of
a few staples.

Although we laboured zealously the task proved far more formidable than we had anticipated.
The fence was 7 feet in height, while I should think that from 600 to 800 yards had to be run.
The netting only enclosed three sides of the desired space, the fourth side being fenced in
by a belt of trees. In order to get the work done on time and to avoid being compelled to toil
on Sundays, we had to labour long and hard. We started shortly after six in the morning, but
it was often about half-past six in the evening before we knocked off for the day. We took
a strange and inexplicable pride in the enterprise. The fence was not built upon the typical
shoddy German lines, but strictly in accordance with substantial British ideas. I may mention
that we had good reason to regret this display of zeal and excellent workmanship at a later date.

Seeing that the evening was well advanced before we ceased work we had little time for relaxation.
When we stowed our tools for the day we were dog-tired and were hustled into barracks. It was
work and sleep in deadly earnest, but we were mighty glad we succeeded in avoiding the threatened
Sunday labour, because this was the only day we could devote to our own duties such as mending
and washing clothes.

While we were pushing ahead with this task we discussed its coming purposes very animatedly.
But none of the guards appeared to have the slightest inkling of its projected application.
However, this was immaterial to us. A loud cheer of triumph went up when we had hung the gates,
which we had also fashioned at great effort, and the duty was completed. We were beside ourselves
with self-satisfaction and delight because we had shown the implacable Major Bach what we Britishers
could do when we made up our minds to tackle anything. I very much doubt whether even an equal
number of skilled workmen would have completed the fence within the stipulated time, and we
for the most part were quite foreign to the trades involved.

When we first entered the camp we were provided with a tolerably satisfactory area of adjacent
space in which to exercise ourselves. But as additional prisoners came in this limb-stretching
promenade became gradually reduced until at last it was no more than a suburban chicken run
in area, being just as long as our barrack by one-half the space between the two rows of buildings.
These cramped quarters rather exasperated us because we were denied the pleasure of a little
stroll. The exercise yard was also invariably obstructed by clothes hanging on the lines to
dry or to air, the result being that within a very short time the British section of Sennelager
Camp became vividly reminiscent of a slum in the densely populated districts off the Mile End Road.

The speedy completion of the "big fence" unfortunately set a bad precedent. Major Bach, flushed
with the success of his first speeding-up tactics, grew more and more inexorable in this connection.
For every job a rigid time-limit was now set, and he did not hesitate to reduce the period
to an almost impossible point. The cause was perfectly obvious. He concluded that by setting
us an absolutely impossible, though apparently reasonable, enterprise, he would secure the
opportunity for which he was so sedulously waiting--to mete us out some new punishment. But
somehow or other we always contrived to cheat him in his nefarious designs.

During this period our guard was changed frequently. Men would be withdrawn to make up the
losses incurred upon the battlefield. Thus we were brought into contact with the various types
of Germans which constitute the Teutonic Empire. Some were certainly not ill-disposed towards
us. They mounted guard over us according to their own interpretation of this essential duty.
But others slavishly followed the rigid instructions which were laid down, notably the Prussian
guards, who were about the most brutal and despicable blackguards it is possible for the whole
of Germany to have produced to mount watch and ward over us. One set of guards was withdrawn
to bring a Westphalian regiment to fighting strength and proceeded to the front. Afterwards
we learned that every man had been lost--killed, wounded or missing.

The severe mauling which the German armies were receiving--we knew nothing about it at the
time--undoubtedly was partly responsible for the harsh treatment extended to us. Unable to
smash the "contemptible little army," which was certainly proving capable of looking after
itself, vengeance was visited upon our defenceless heads.

One day a huge crowd of prisoners was brought in. Whether the Commandant had been advised of
their coming or not I am unable to say. But one incontrovertible fact remains--he failed utterly
to make any food arrangements to meet the increase in the camp's population. The prisoners
reached the camp in the usual famishing condition and were given a small ration. But they were
satisfied partially at our expense. The remaining food was only adequate to give us one-half
of our usual small dole, and we had to rest content therewith. The canteen being closed we
could not make up the deficiency even at our own expense.

My health was now giving way, as a result of my privations in Wesel prison, accentuated by
the indifferent and insufficient food and hard work at Sennelager. I was assigned to various
light duties. One of these brought me into the cook-house, where I was ordered to cut up the
black bread--one brick loaf into five equal pieces, each of which had to last a man through
six meals. I was either unfitted for kitchen work or else my presence was resented. At all
events I soon realised that my first day in the cook-house would undoubtedly be my last. I
had to serve out the bread, and ostensibly, either from lack of experience or nervousness,
I bungled my task. The men had to go by the boiler in single file, passing on to the table
to receive the bread, where serving was carried out so dexterously that the moving line never
paused--until it got to my table. But there was method in my bungling. I was zealously striving
to double the bread ration to the British prisoners. Consequently the pieces of bread persisted
in tumbling to the ground, thereby hindering and upsetting the steady progress and rhythm of
serving. But each man as he stooped to recover a fallen piece received a second hunk surreptitiously,
as was my direct intention. However, unfortunately for me, the bread did not go far enough,
the outcome being an outburst of further trouble. As I had expected, my room was preferred
to my company in that kitchen and I was deposed.

While in Sennelager I had been sedulously keeping an elaborate diary in which I entered details
of every incident that befell the camp. I had also recovered my original diary which had played
such a prominent part at my trial in Wesel prison.

[*gap]

Now diaries were the one thing in Sennelager which were rigorously debarred. To have been caught
with such a record of the doings and my opinions of the German authorities would have brought
me an exemplary sentence of solitary confinement or penal servitude in a German prison, if
not something worse. Consequently I was compelled to post my diary in secrecy. I discovered
a hiding-place which would never have occurred to the guards, even if they had gained an inkling
that such a document was in existence.

One of our party fell a victim to chronic asthma, and was isolated, being given a room under
the officer's quarters. Someone was required to accompany him to extend assistance and constant
surveillance, and selection fell upon me. Locking myself in this room at night, with my sick
companion, I used to while away the time preparing some rough notes which I was keeping for
a specific purpose in addition to the diary proper, which, however, I left in its original
hiding-place.

By some means or other the guard suspected my engagement in some such task. They made several
surprise entrances but failed to catch me in the act of writing. The heavy tread of their coming
feet always gave me ample warning so that I could get my notes into safe hiding. But one night
they burst open the door suddenly and I was caught red-handed. On my knees was my pad at which
I was writing feverishly. But the pad was inscribed with notes which I regarded as of an emergency
character. Realising the object of their unexpected entry I clapped the pad on the table, thus
covering up the prepared and detailed notes which I desired to keep. The guard sprang forward
delirious with joy at having made a capture, snatched the loose sheets from the pad, and went
off in high glee to report my heinous offence. But the man in his haste left the proper notes
on the table. He was too thick-brained to think for a moment that I should ever trouble to
prepare two diaries, one for myself and one for capture if detected, so I still held the treasured
original, which I instantly hid away safely.

As luck would have it not a word was included in the captured notes to offer written evidence
of my private and candid opinion of my captors, their methods and our life. The fact that I
had written nothing detrimental to the authorities apparently appeased the Commandant, notwithstanding
the enormity of my delinquency. At all events I received nothing worse than a stern admonition
and threats of severe punishment if I were caught infringing the regulations again, to all
of which I listened humbly, but with my tongue in my cheek.

My diary was posted up fully in due course, and what is more to the point I got the voluminous
and incriminating evidence away from Sennelager. At a later date I became somewhat apprehensive
as to its safety, and was anxious to get it to England. For some time I was baffled in my efforts,
but at last a friendly neutral offered to take it and to see that it was delivered to my friend
who has chronicled this story, to whom I had addressed it. This diary wandered about Germany
considerably, the person in question preferring to make haste slowly to disarm all suspicion.
At last the neutral, after having been searched several times without yielding anything incriminating,
got as far as the frontier. About to pass into the adjacent friendly country the carrier was
detained, and by some mischance the diary happened to be unearthed.

The neutral was arrested upon some trumped-up charge to afford the authorities time to peruse
the incriminating document. Cross-examined the go-between protested ignorance of the contents:
the parcel was found just as it had been received from the consignor, the seals were all intact,
and it was under delivery to the person whose address was written upon the outside. There was
nothing attached to associate myself with the document, although my friend at home would have
known instantly whence it had come. The upshot was that the diary was confiscated. I was bitterly
mortified to learn its fate when within a stone's throw of safety, because it contained incidents
of all descriptions set out in regular sequence, and in a plain unvarnished manner. Its perusal
must have stung the Germans pretty severely since it was decidedly unpalatable to Teuton pride.
It was a comprehensive indictment of the German treatment of the British prisoners, relative
more particularly to Sennelager, which the authorities were firmly determined should never
become known to the world at large, and to conceal which they used unceasing efforts. Had that
diary got home it would have created a tremendous sensation. My vexation was completed by the
thought that the diary contained many episodes and incidents which I can now only recall hazily,
but I thanked my lucky stars that I had taken the precaution to keep a précis of the contents
which I myself brought away with me, and which has proved of valuable assistance in setting
forth this narrative.

A few days after having completed the famous "big fence" we were paraded. Major Bach strode
up, obviously in a terrible temper--it was the six o'clock parade--and facing us, roared:

"You English dogs! Barracks are too comfortable for you! You should be made to feed from the
swine-tub! Bring all your luggage out--everything you've got, and your sacks of straw! I'll
give you ten minutes to do it. Then you'll parade again! Hurry up!"

We were thunderstruck at this order. What was in the wind? Major Bach was adept in springing
surprises upon us, but this excelled anything to which we had been treated hitherto.

Speculation was idle. We had only ten minutes to do as we were bidden, and we bustled around
to be on parade as demanded. The excitement was intense. We collected every stick to which
we could lay a claim, and with all our worldly belongings, as well as our sack of straw, on
our shoulders, we trotted out and formed up.

As we paraded, the guards made a diligent search of the barracks to see that we had left nothing
behind. Also to make sure that no prisoner was lurking in hiding.

We received the order to march. We tramped along under our bulky and ungainly loads, and found
we were being escorted to the enclosure which we had fenced in. We swung through the gate,
which was closed behind the last man, and a soldier mounted guard over it. In a flash the truth
burst upon us.

We were clapped into the barbed wire prison which we had built with so much energy and in which
we had taken such pride!

The look of dismay which settled upon the faces of the more lugubrious members of our party
at this typical Teutonic illustration of adding insult to injury was perfectly justifiable.
Here were we turned into an open field surrounded by netting, as if we were so many cattle,
and in which there were no tents or other buildings except a single small shed. Some of us
scurried to this little tumbledown shanty to stow our belongings. We had to parade and were
curtly commanded to empty the straw from our sacks. We did so though our spirits dropped to
zero at this summary deprivation of our beds. We were told to keep the empty sacks and to secure
them against loss or theft, which injunction we did not fail to take to heart.

Then we were left. No one appeared to know what to do with us. We were informed that instructions
would be given later. We kicked our heels about in the broiling sun, sprawling here, and lolling
there. The hours passed but there was no further development. When noon came and we received
no summons for the mid-day meal we commenced to grow apprehensive in spite of ourselves. Fortunately
the weather was glorious, although the hot sun, which we could not escape, proved distressing.

As the time wore on we spurred our interpreters to exert themselves on our behalf. They constituted
our only means of mediating with our superiors, and we urged them to go to the Commandant to
enquire about our rations.

The interpreters went off and succeeded in gaining an audience with Major Bach, who was found
in his office conferring with his juniors. Directly he espied our interpreters he yelled testily:

"Dolmetscher! Dolmetscher! I cannot attend to any Dolmetscher now!"

"But," persisted one of the interpreters, "how about the food for--"

"Don't come worrying me now," was the savage interruption. "Get out!"

Our intermediaries came back and their doleful faces told us more eloquently than words that
their interview had proved barren.

Some of the prisoners were giving way. A basin of acorn coffee and a small piece of black bread
was all we had eaten for breakfast, and we were commencing to feel the pangs of hunger disconcertingly.

In an adjacent field were some British Tommies from Mons. Some of us, tiring of sprawling about
on the grass, and with a queer pain gnawing at our stomach, strolled off towards them to secure
some distraction and smother the call of "little Mary." The soldiers were hugely delighted
to see us and we were soon engrossed in a spirited conversation.

Suddenly our fraternising was observed by some officers who came hurrying up in high dudgeon.

"Here! None of that," they bawled. "Military and civilians must not talk together!" saying
which they bundled the soldiers away and evidently reported our offence. At least our guards
came up shortly afterwards, marshalled us, and led us through a small wood into a low-lying
field. It was apparently another fiendish inspiration of Major Bach to confine us here, because
the field was nothing but a swamp. It was not so soddened as to allow the feet to sink ankle
deep into the mire, but was like a wet sponge. It was impossible to sit down or one would have
got wet through.

We were left standing in this uninviting quagmire for four solid hours. The interpreters were
pestered unmercifully to secure us something to eat and to drink, but they were as helpless
as ourselves. They were well-nigh distracted at the ugly turn which things were taking. Matters
were certainly becoming alarming among the weaker prisoners, who were now in a pitiable condition.

It was not until five o'clock in the afternoon that the authorities suddenly remembered us.
Then we were lined up to secure some food. But we passed three hours in that queue only to
receive a small dole of filthy looking thin cabbage soup. This was all that had passed our
lips since the wretched black coffee served fifteen hours before!

Yet we were thankful for such a meagre mouthful. We were all so famished that we took no heed
of the noisomeness of the ration. Now we began to grow anxious as to the arrangements for enabling
us to pass the night. Our interpreters had been questioning one or two of the younger officers
who were mounting guard over us in this field.

"Oh! That'll be all right," was the retort. "We're going to put you into tents!"

"But where are the tents?" persisted the interpreters, looking around wonderingly.

"Oh," was the evasive reply, "they have commenced to put them up. But we find we shall not
get all the tents for a few days. They haven't come in yet! You'll be a bit crowded at first
but it'll soon be straightened out."

Again our faces fell. We had been turned out of our barracks before our tents had been procured.
This was a dismal look-out, but we hoped that, as the officers said they were putting up tents,
we should be able to squeeze under cover, if in discomfort.

We were lined up again in the twilight to receive marching orders. We were escorted into the
field, which is set upon the side of a hill, and as we swung into this space we could not suppress
an exclamation. The field was alive with men. All the other prisoners had been evicted from
their barracks, and had been turned into this open enclosure. The hill-side was black, with
a sullen, heaving, listless mass of humanity, numbering over 1,500 all told, and of every conceivable
enemy (to Germany) nationality. We scanned the field for a glimpse of the tents, but the only
signs of canvas we could see was one large marquee which was lying on the ground ready for
erection upon the brow of the hill.

We stood wondering how we were going to spend the night when orders were bawled out that we
were to sleep in the open! This intimation was received with a wailing and groaning which sounded
ominous to me. But the guard, which had been strongly reinforced, was in overwhelming array
so that all discontent and protest counted for naught. A bewildering string of orders was yelled,
the substance of which was that we were to shake ourselves down upon the grass in long regular
rows, with a narrow passage between each two. I think this was the first occasion upon which
I had ever seen so many prisoners give way, since in the majority of cases the men were devoid
of any means of making themselves comfortable for the night in the open air. Some of us, including
myself, had taken the precaution to bring our blankets with us: indeed, we considered the blanket
such an inestimable boon and companion that we never parted with it even for a moment. We rolled
ourselves in these, and although the grumblings and growlings which rose and fell over the
field recalled the angry murmuring of the sea and were disturbing, I was so exhausted that
I soon fell sound asleep.

So far as I was personally concerned I was not particularly sorry that Major Bach, in his devilish
intention to exasperate us, had conceived the idea of compelling us to sleep in the open. The
weather was intensely hot and the night became insufferably sultry. It must have been about
midnight when I awoke for the first time. For the moment I could not collect my thoughts and
sat up somewhat surprised at the unusual brilliancy of the light playing upon my face, which
was in striking contrast to the dismal blackness of the barracks. Then I realised that we were
in the open and that a glorious full moon was shining upon us from a cloudless sky.

I got on my feet and looked around. It was a strange, albeit extraordinarily impressive sight.
Guards were patrolling the lines, their bayonets flashing sharply as they caught the glittering
silvery light of the moon. My guard came along and ordered me to lie down, but I refused, and,
in fact, walked along between the rows of prostrate forms. The air was uncannily still, broken
only by the twitterings of night birds, the hooting of the owls, the subdued clanging of rifles,
the footsteps of the guards, and the groans of many of the sleepers who were twisting and turning
upon the ground. The hill-side was crowded with the restless forms; they seemed so thick and
densely packed as to cover every inch of space.

As I surveyed the scene the loneliness and helplessness of our position did not strike me.
All was so quiet and apparently peaceful. Now and again a sleeper would stir, mutter something
in his sleep about his poor wife and children at home, and would sit up to ascertain what light
was playing upon his face, would turn to the moon and then completely satisfied would lie down
and relapse into slumber. As I observed the heavy dew which had dressed the grass and sleeping
forms with beads which sparkled like diamonds I could not repress a feeling of thanks that
the weather was kind to us. Supposing it had rained! I shuddered at the thought.

At 4.30 we were all roused, lined up, and ordered to prepare to receive our breakfast. We formed
queues as instructed but we had to wait patiently until eight o'clock before we received our
rations--the acorn coffee looking more sickly and watery than ever. Only a few basins were
available so we had to drink successively out of the self-same vessel, as rapidly as we could
swallow the liquid upon the spot. We closed our eyes to the fact that a hundred or more people
of all nationalities, from Frenchmen to Poles, German recruits to Slavs, had drunk a few moments
previously from these basins which were not even rinsed after use. The thought was revolting,
but it was either drink with a blind trust in the Fates or go without.

During that day the erection of the single marquee was hastened. It was the only tent available,
and there were sufficient of us on the field to have packed it to suffocation ten times over!
We were compelled to go without our mid-day meal, but this did not disconcert us very pronouncedly.
Our peace of mind was being racked by another impending aggravation of our predicament. Dark
heavy clouds were gathering in the sky. Was the weather which had been merciful to us during
the previous night now going to break?

When the marquee was completed a few trusses of straw were thrown in and distributed thinly
over the ground. Then ensued a wild stampede to secure a place beneath the canvas, a rabble
of several hundreds fighting frantically among themselves to seek a couch in the absurdly inadequate
temporary canvas dwelling. The men stowed themselves in so tightly in close serried rows that
when lying down they were unable to turn over. Once a position had been seized the tenant never
dared to leave it for an instant for fear it would be seized by some one else. The guards demanded
and succeeded in maintaining for a time a narrow gangway between the rows, but the crush became
so terrible that even this space was soon occupied and the soldiers were prevented from moving
within the tent.

The marquee was packed to suffocation, and the fact that the greater part of the seething mass
of humanity was filthy dirty and thickly infested with lice and other vermin from causes over
which they had no control caused the atmosphere within to become so hot and foetid as to make
one's stomach jump into one's throat.

One glance at the packed marquee sufficed to make up my mind for me. Come what might it would
never see me within its walls. Were a light carelessly dropped among the loose straw a fearful
holocaust must ensue. Few if any could have got out alive. This thought haunted me so persistently
that I moved as far away from the tent as I could.

We received no further rations that day until the evening, when another small dole of watery
greasy coffee was handed round as in the morning. But we never glanced at this noisome liquid.
The terror which we had been dreading so fearfully had burst upon us. It was raining hard!
At first only a gentle refreshing shower, it developed into a torrential downpour, and gave
every indication of lasting for an indefinite period. Consider the situation--approximately
two thousand human beings stranded upon a bleak exposed field, absolutely devoid of any shelter,
except the solitary paltry marquee. Little wonder that our faces blanched at the prospect before
us. How should we be able to sleep? What horrors would the dawn reveal? God only knew.

CHAPTER XIII

"THE BLOODY NIGHT OF SEPTEMBER 11"

By ten o'clock in the evening the rain was falling in sheets and the water coursing down the
slope to collect in the depression speedily formed a shallow lake at the bottom end of "the
field." No one can form the slightest impression of the wretchedness of those who were exposed
to the full fury of the elements through the ferocious and brutal inhumanity of Major Bach.
The little food which had been served out to us so sparingly failed to keep our bodies warm,
let alone fortify us against the visitation by which we were now being overwhelmed.

The wind increased in fury until at last it was blowing with the force of a gale. The trees
creaked and bent beneath its onslaughts, and those who had ventured to seek the slight protection
afforded by the overhanging branches, trembled with fear lest the trees should be torn up by
the roots or heavy limbs be wrenched free and tossed among them.

Those who had secured the shelter offered by the solitary marquee and who, notwithstanding
the irrespirable and filthy atmosphere, considered possible suffocation and the danger of fire
to be preferable to the drenching rain, were confronted with a new and far more terrifying menace.

The wind catching the broad surface which the tent offered commenced to flap whatever loose
ends of the canvas it could pick up, with a wild, nerve racking noise. The whole marquee swung
and reeled to and fro, the sport of the boisterous gusts. The main poles creaked as they bent
beneath the enormous strains to which they were being put. The guy ropes, now thoroughly saturated
and having contracted, groaned fiercely as if about to snap. Hurried efforts were made to slacken
the ropes slightly, but the wind, driving rain, and inky blackness of the night, as well as
the swollen hemp, hindered this task very effectively. Indeed the tension upon some of the
stakes became so acute that they either snapped or else were uprooted.

As the supports gave way the ungainly marquee commenced to totter and rock far more threateningly.
The wind driving into the interior flapped the roof madly. The herded humanity within feared
that the whole of the canvas above them would be blown off to be carried away by the gale.
The inmates who had fought so desperately among themselves for the shelter it offered were
now crouching and shivering with fear. Some highly strung individual raised a cry of danger.
The next instant there was a wild panic which lasted a considerable time. There was a wicked
combined rush to get outside, the men fighting among themselves fiercely.

Outside, upon "the field," bedlam was let loose. The seething mass of humanity was now soaked
to the skin. The men walked up and down, their teeth chattering madly, in a desperate effort
to keep warm. Indeed it was necessary for many of them to persist in unwilling exercise since
this was the only way to keep alive: to stop was to sink down from sheer fatigue. In the darkness
I had discovered and kept company with a South African, Moresby White.[5] But it was almost
impossible to converse, since we had to shout with all the force of our lungs to make our voices
heard above the roar and rattle of the wind and rain. We were compelled to tread warily, because
in the Cimmerian darkness it was impossible to distinguish the groaning forms crouching upon
the ground.

    [Footnote 5: This gentleman has since been released and at the
    time of writing is recuperating in Great Britain.]

We linked our arms tightly together to form mutual support and persistently plodded hither
and thither. The spectacle was terrifying and tested the nerves of the strongest among us.
If ever humanity were cast adrift and left to its own devices, it was that night upon "the
field." Some of the prisoners were rushing to and fro frantic with fear. Others huddled together
as if to keep one another warm. Some were on their knees praying fervently, while other parties
were singing hymns in voices which made the strongest-hearted among us blench. Here and there
were men stamping furiously up and down cursing at the top of their voices, hurling fierce
imprecations to the wind and consigning the Commandant, his superiors, and all their works
to everlasting torment. Some of the most exhausted prisoners had congregated together and crouched
with their heads bowed to the storm, shivering with cold, afraid to speak, hungry and terror-stricken,
yet completely resigned to the fate which they felt convinced must be theirs and absolutely
inevitable. A few, whose nerves were highly strung, were striding up and down laughing demoniacally,
waving their arms madly, and gesticulating as if their senses had indeed given way. A few of
the rougher spirits were blaspheming, and to such a tune that even the most hardened among
us were forced to turn our backs to escape their blood-curdling oaths.

As midnight approached the wind and rain increased in fury. Even the guard failed to stand
against it. The sentries were drenched from head to foot. The conditions became so bad that
an order was suddenly circulated to the effect that the guard was to be changed every two hours,
instead of at four-hour intervals. The sentries were quite powerless to assist us even if they
had been disposed to come to our aid to mitigate our wretched condition in any way. One guard,
his compassion evidently aroused by a scene such as he had never witnessed before, secured
some thin stakes and thrust them through the wire netting to form a support to a large blanket.
With this he thought that perhaps a little shelter might be obtained. We crowded beneath this
precarious protection, but the first blast of the gale which swept the field after its improvisation,
whisked the blanket and the stakes into the air. They were never seen again.

About twelve o'clock I was on the verge of collapse. My friend supported me, but even he was
faint from lack of food and exposure. We decided to roll our soddened bodies in our saturated
blankets, to lie down on the ground and to strive to woo sleep. We stretched ourselves on the
flat, but the wind and rain beat unmercifully upon us. Although we were dead-beat the angel
of sleep refused to come to us. As a matter of fact, when we stretched ourselves in the mud
we did not care two straws whether we ever saw the light of day again or not.

After lying about two hours upon the ground I put out my hand to discover that we were lying
in two inches of water. But not only this. The floodwater, in its mad rush to escape to the
depression at the lower end of the field, had carved a course through the spot where we were
lying. The result was that the rushing water was running down our necks, coursing over our
bodies beneath our clothes, and rushing wildly from the bottoms of our trousers. We were acting
unconsciously as conduits, but we did not serve in this capacity any longer than we could help.

We regained our feet, our clothes now so water-logged as to bear us down with their weight.
We tramped laboriously to the top of the field and as the wind bore down upon us it carried
upon its bosom a mad madrigal of hymns, prayers, curses, blasphemy, and raucous shouting. Groups
of men were now lying about thickly, some half-drowned from immersion in the pools, while others
were groaning and moaning in a blood-freezing manner. Small hand-baggage and parcels, the sole
belongings of many a prisoner, were drifting hither and thither, the sport of rushing water
and wind. At the lower end of the field the water had sprawled farther and farther over the
depression, and therein we could descry men lying in huddled heaps too weak to rise to their feet.

It was a picture of misery and wretchedness such as it would be impossible to parallel. I recalled
the unhappy scenes I had witnessed around the railway terminus at Berlin under similar conditions,
but that was paradise to the field at Sennelager Camp on the fateful night of September 11.
It appeared as if the Almighty Himself had turned upon us at last, and was resolved to blot
us from the face of the earth. We were transformed into a condition bordering on frigidity
from rain-soaked clothes clinging to bodies reduced to a state of low vitality and empty stomachs.
Had we been in good health I doubt whether the storm and exposure would have wreaked such havoc
among us.

While my friend and I were standing on a knoll pondering upon the utter helplessness and misery
around us, singing and whistling were borne to us upon the wind. We listened to catch fragments
of a comic song between the gusts. There was no mistaking those voices. We picked our way slowly
to beneath the trees whence the voices proceeded, glad to meet some company which could be
merry and bright, even if the mood had to be assumed with a desperate effort.

Beneath the trees we found a small party of our indomitable compatriots. They received us with
cheery banter and joke and an emphatic assurance that "it is all right in the summer time."
They were quite as wretched and as near exhaustion as anybody upon the field, but they were
firmly determined not to show it. A comic song had been started as a distraction, the refrain
being bawled for all it was worth as if in defiance of the storm. This was what had struck
our ears.

This panacea being pronounced effective a comprehensive programme was rendered. Every popular
song that occurred to the mind was turned on and yelled with wild lustiness. Those who did
not know the words either whistled the air or improvised an impossible ditty. Whenever there
was a pause to recall some new song, the interval was occupied with "Rule, Britannia!" This
was a prime favourite, and repetition did not stale its forceful rendition, especial stress
being laid upon the words, "Britons never, never, never shall be slaves!" to which was roared
the eternal enquiry, "Are we down-hearted?" The welkin-smashing negative, crashing through
the night, and not entirely free from embroidery, offered a conclusive answer.

It takes a great deal to destroy a Britisher's spirits, but this terrible night almost supplied
the crucial test. We were not only combating Prussian atrocity but Nature's ferocity as well,
and the two forces now appeared to be in alliance. The men sang, as they confessed, because
it constituted a kind of employment at least to the mind, enabled them to forget their misery
somewhat, and proved an excellent antidote to the gnawing pain in the vicinity of the waist-belt.
Once a singer started up the strains of "Little Mary," but this was unanimously vetoed as coming
too near home. Then from absence of a better inspiration, we commenced to roar "Home, Sweet
Home," which I think struck just as responsive a chord, but the sentiment of which made a universal
appeal.

But hymns were resolutely barred. Those boisterous and irrepressible Tapleys absolutely declined
to profane their faith on such a night as this. It was either a comic song or nothing. To have
sung hymns with the swinish brutal guards lounging around would have conveyed an erroneous
impression. They would have chuckled at the thought that at last we had been thoroughly broken
in and in our resignation had turned Latter Day Saints or Revivalists. These boys were neither
Saints, Revivalists nor Sinners, but merely victims of Prussian brutality in its blackest form
and grimly determined not to give in under any circumstances whatever.

When at last a suggestion was made that a move would be advantageous, one shouted "Come on,
boys!" Linking arms so as to form a solid human wall, but in truth to hold one another up,
we marched across the field, singing "Soldiers of the King," or some other appropriate martial
song to keep our spirits at a high level, while we stamped some warmth into our jaded bodies,
exercised our stiffening muscles, and demonstrated to our captors that we were by no means
"knocked to the wide" as they fondly imagined. Now and again a frantic cheer would ring through
the night, or a yell of wild glee burst out as one of the party went floundering through a
huge pool to land prostrate in the mud. When it is remembered that some of us had not tasted
a bite of food for forty-eight hours, and had drunk nothing but thin and watery acorn coffee,
it is possible to gain some measure of the indomitable spirit which was shown upon this desperate
occasion. The attitude and persiflage under such depressing conditions did not fail to impress
our guards. They looked on with mouths open and scratched their heads in perplexity. Afterwards
they admitted that nothing had impressed them so powerfully as the behaviour of the British
prisoners that night and conceded that we were truly "wonderful," to which one of the boys
retorted that it was not wonderful at all but "merely natural and could not be helped." Personally
I think singing was the most effective medium for passing the time which we could have hit
on. It drowned the volleys of oaths, curses, wails, groans, sobbings, and piteous appeals which
rose to Heaven from all around us. If we had kept dumb our minds must have been depressingly
affected if not unhinged by what we could see and hear.

Thus we spent the remaining hours of that terrible night until with the break of day the rain
ceased. Then we took a walk round to inspect the wreckage of humanity brought about by Major
Bach's atrocious action in turning us out upon an open field, void of shelter, and without
food, upon a night when even the most brutal man would willingly have braved a storm to succour
a stranded or lost dog. As the daylight increased our gorge rose. The ground was littered with
still and exhausted forms, too weak to do aught but groan, and absolutely unable to extricate
themselves from the pools, mud, and slush in which they were lying. Some were rocking themselves
laboriously to and fro singing and whining, but thankful that day had broken. One man had gone
clean mad and was stamping up and down, his long hair waving wildly, hatless and coatless,
bringing down the most blood-freezing demoniacal curses upon the authorities and upbraiding
the Almighty for having cast us adrift that night.

The sanitary arrangements upon this field were of the most barbarous character, comprising
merely deep wide open ditches which had been excavated by ourselves. Those of us who had not
been broken by the experience, although suffering from extreme weakness, pulled ourselves together
to make an effort to save what human flotsam and jetsam we could. But we could not repress
a fearful curse and a fierce outburst of swearing when we came to the latrine. Six poor fellows,
absolutely worn out, had crawled to a narrow ledge under the brink of the bank to seek a little
shelter from the pitiless storm. There they had lain, growing weaker and weaker, until unable
to cling any longer to their precarious perch they had slipped into the trench to lie among
the human excreta, urine and other filth. They knew where they were but were so far gone as
to be unable to lift a finger on their own behalf. Their condition, when we fished them out,
to place them upon as dry a spot as we could find, I can leave to the imagination. I may say
this was the only occasion upon which I remember the British prisoners giving vent to such
voluble swearing as they then used, and I consider it was justified.

In an adjacent field our heroes from Mons were camped and a small party of us made our way
to the first tent. We were greeted by the R.A.M.C. Water had been playing around their beds,
but they acknowledged that they had fared better because they were protected overhead. The
soldiers, however, made light of their situation, although we learned that many of the Tommies,
from lack of accommodation, had been compelled to spend the night in the open. Still, as they
were somewhat more inured to exposure than ourselves, they had accepted the inevitable more
stoically, although the ravages of the night and the absence of food among them were clearly
revealed by their haggard and pinched faces.

The men in the tents confessed that they had been moved by the sounds which penetrated to their
ears from the field in which the civilian prisoners had been turned adrift. They immediately
enquired after the condition of our boys. Unfortunately we could not yield much information
upon this point, as we were still partially in ignorance of the plight of our compatriots.
But there was no mistaking the depth of the feeling of pity which went out for "the poor devils
of civvies," while the curses and oaths which were rained down upon the head of Major Bach
with true British military emphasis and meaning revealed the innermost feelings of our soldiers
very convincingly.

Seeing that we were exhausted and shivering from emptiness the R.A.M.C. made a diligent search
for food, but the quest was in vain. Their larder like ours was empty. In fact the Tommies
themselves were as hard-pushed for food as we were.

I witnessed one incident with an English Tommy which provoked tremendous feeling when related
to his comrades. He was walking the field soaked to the skin, perishing from cold produced
by lack of food, continuously hitching in his belt to keep his "mess-tin" quiet, and on the
brink of collapse. He happened to kick something soft. He picked the object up and to his extreme
delight found it to be a piece of black bread, soaked with water, and thickly covered with
mud. He made his way to the field kitchen where there happened to be a small fire under the
cauldron in which the rations were prepared. He slipped the soddened bread beneath the grate
to dry it. While he was so doing, the cook, an insignificant little bully, came along. Learning
what the soldier was doing, he stooped down, raked out the fire, and buried the bread among
the ashes. Then laughing at his achievement he went on his way.

The soldier, without a murmur, recovered his treasure with difficulty. He moved out into the
open, succeeded in finding a few dry sticks, lit a small fire, and placed his bread on top
of it. Again he was caught. His warder bustled up, saw the little fire, which he scattered
with his feet, and then crunched the small hunk of bread to pieces in the mud and water with
his iron heel.

The look that came over the soldier's face at this unprovoked demonstration of heartless cruelty
was fearful, but he kept his head. "Lor' blime!" he commented to me when I came up and sympathised
with him over his loss, "I could have knocked the god-damned head off the swine and I wonder
I didn't."

I may say that during the night the guard announced an order which had been issued for the
occasion--no one was to light a fire upon the Field. Even the striking of a match was sternly
forbidden. The penalty was to be a bullet, the guards having been instructed to shoot upon
the detection of an infraction of the order. One man was declared to have been killed for defying
the order intentionally or from ignorance, but of this I cannot say anything definitely. Rumour
was just as rife and startling among us on the field as among the millions of a humming city.
But we understood that two or three men went raving mad, several were picked up unconscious,
one Belgian committed suicide by hanging himself with his belt, while another Belgian was found
dead, to which I refer elsewhere.

At 5.30 we were lined up. We were going to get something to eat we were told. But when the
hungry, half-drowned souls reached the field kitchen after waiting and shivering in their wet
clothes for two and a half hours, it was to receive nothing more than a small basin of the
eternal lukewarm acorn coffee. We were not even given the usual piece of black bread.

The breakfast, though nauseating, was swallowed greedily. But it did not satisfy "little Mary"
by any means. During my sojourn among German prisons I often felt hungry, but this term is
capable of considerable qualification. Yet I think on this occasion it must have been the superlative
stage of hunger. The night upon the Field had come upon my illness from which I had never recovered
completely. It was a feeling such as I have never experienced before nor since, and I do not
think it can ever be approached again.

It is difficult to describe the sensation. I walked about with a wolfish startled glance, scanning
the ground eagerly, as if expecting Mother Earth to relieve me of my torment. The pain within
my stomach was excruciating. It was not so much a faint and empty feeling but as if a thousand
devils were pulling at my "innards" in as many different ways, and then having stretched the
organs to breaking point had suddenly released them to permit them to fly back again like pieces
of elastic, to mix up in an inextricable tangle which the imps then proceeded to unravel with
more force than method. My head throbbed and buzzed, precipitating a strange dizziness which
seemed determined to force me to my knees. I chewed away viciously but although the movement
of the jaws apparently gave a certain relief from illusion the reaction merely served to accentuate
the agony down below.

As I reeled about like a drunken man, my eyes searching the ground diligently for anything
in the eating line, no matter what it might be, I found a piece of bread. As I clutched it
in my hands I regarded it with a strange maniacal look of childish delight. But it was a sorry
prize. It was saturated until it could not hold another drop of water, and I think there was
quite as much mud as bread. I wrung the water out with my hands and then between two of us
we devoured it ravenously, swallowing the mud as contentedly as the bread, and not losing a
single crumb. It was a sparse mouthful, but it was something, and it certainly stayed the awful
feeling in the stomach to a certain degree for a little while.

No man passed through that awful night without carrying traces of his experiences. Its memories
are burned ineradicably into one's brain. Whenever we mentioned the episode it was always whispered
as "The Bloody Night of September 11th," and as such it is known to this day. As we became
distributed among other camps the story became noised far and wide, until at last it became
known throughout the length and breadth of Germany. Whenever one who spent the night upon the
field mentions the incident, he does so in hushed and awed tones.

That night was the culminating horror to a long string of systematic brutalities and barbarities
which constituted a veritable reign of terror. It even spurred a section of the German public
to action. An enquiry, the first and only one ever authorised by the Germans upon their own
initiative, was held to investigate the treatment of prisoners of war at Sennelager. The atrocities
were such that no German, steeped though he is in brutality, could credit them. The Commission
certainly prosecuted its investigations very diligently, but it is to be feared that it gained
little satisfaction. The British prisoners resolutely agreed to relate their experiences to
one quarter only--the authorities at home. The result is that very little is known among the
British public concerning the treatment we experienced at Sennelager, for the simple reason
that but a handful of men who were confined to the camp during the term of Major Bach's authority,
have been released. The Germans have determined to permit no man to be exchanged who can relate
the details until the termination of the war. Their persistent and untiring, as well as elaborate
precautions to make trebly certain that I had forgotten all about the period of travail at
Sennelager, before I was allowed to come home, were amusing, and offer adequate testimony to
the fear with which the German Government dreads the light of publicity being shed upon its
Black Hole.

CHAPTER XIV

THE GUARDIAN OF THE CAMP

Although Major Bach wielded his power with all the severity and spirit of a true-blooded Prussian
Jack-in-Office, and notwithstanding that we were forbidden all communication with the outside
world, yet we were not without our "protector."

Our guardian angel was Dr. Ascher, who was responsible for the clean bill of health among the
civilian prisoners. The soldiers were under a military surgeon, as already explained, but owing
to the arbitrary manner in which this official displayed his authority, and with which Dr.
Ascher did not agree by any means, it was the civilian doctor who ministered for the most part
to Tommy's ills. The result was that his services were in almost universal demand, and the
strenuous work and long hours which he expended on our behalf were very warmly appreciated.

A short, sturdy, thick-set man, fairly fluent in the English language, and of a cheery disposition,
Dr. Ascher was a true and illuminating representative of his profession. His mission being
frankly one of mercy he emphatically refused to acknowledge the frontiers of races and tongues,
poverty and wealth, education and ignorance. He was sympathetic to an extreme degree, and never
once complained or proffered any excuse when called urgently to exert a special effort on behalf
of any man.

He became an especial favourite among the British prisoners. The fact that he came among us
immediately upon our arrival at the camp, seeking to extend relief to the sore, distressed,
and suffering; his cheery and breezy conversation; and his grim though unsuccessful efforts
to secure the food which we so urgently needed upon that occasion, were never forgotten. He
became endeared to one and all. Indeed he was elevated to such a pedestal of appreciative recognition
as to be affectionately christened "The English Doctor," which he accepted as a signal honour.
He was no respecter of time, neither did he emulate his military colleague in being a clock-watcher.
He informed us that he was at our disposal at any hour of the day or night, and he never omitted
to spend hours among us every day. Seeing that the camp possessed no resident medical attendant,
either civilian or military, that Dr. Ascher resided near Paderborn, some three miles away,
his readiness to come to our assistance at any moment, his ceaseless efforts on our behalf,
and repeated attempts to ameliorate our conditions, it is not surprising that we came to regard
him as our one friend in that accursed spot.

The British prisoners, both civilian and military, never failed to reciprocate whenever an
opportunity arose, and this appreciation of his labours made a deep impression upon him. No
attempts were ever made to encroach upon his generosity and kindness, and if any man had dared
to deceive him he would have been drastically punished by his colleagues. No man ever essayed
to malinger or to shirk a duty to which he had been allotted by the doctor. If the doctor desired
a task to be done, no matter how repugnant, it was shouldered lightly and cheerfully. Indeed,
there was always a manifestation of keen eagerness among us to perform some duty as an expression
of our heartfelt thanks for what he was doing among us. It is not an exaggeration to state
that had it not been for Dr. Ascher, his perennial bonhomie and camaraderie, his patience,
and his intimate association with us, many of the weaker British prisoners and others would
certainly have given way and have gone under. But his infectious good spirits, his abundance
of jokes, his inexhaustible fount of humour, and his readiness to exchange reminiscences effectively
dispelled our gloom and relieved us from brooding over the misery of our position.

Although the medical officer was charged with the express duty of keeping the camp healthy
and sanitary, unfortunately Dr. Ascher was not an autocrat in his department. His powers were
limited, and he was for the most part completely subservient to military decrees. Time after
time he protested energetically and determinedly upon the quantity and quality of the food
which was served out to us, and struggled valiantly to secure more nourishing diet for invalid
prisoners than the cuisine of the camp afforded. But his labour was always in vain; the food
which he laid down as being essential could not be obtained, or else Major Bach firmly refused
to move a finger to get it. As the Commandant's position was paramount, and nothing could be
done without his authority, Dr. Ascher was denied a court of appeal. At times there were some
spirited breezes between Major Bach and the medical representative, but the former invariably
had the last word. On one occasion, to which I refer later, Dr. Ascher tackled the Commandant
so fiercely upon the sanitary arrangements of the camp, and was so persistent and insistent
upon the fulfilment of the orders he expressed, as to compel the inexorable superior to relent.

When a man fell ill and became too weak to perform an exacting task to which he had been deputed
by the tyrant, Dr. Ascher did not fail to intervene. He could not be deceived as to the true
state of a sick man's health and his physical incapacity. Thereupon he would issue what was
described as a "pass," which excused the man completely from the heavy work in hand in favour
of some lighter duty. The doctor's "pass" was safe against the Commandant's savagery; even
he, with his military authority, dared not over-ride the doctor's decision. However, the British
prisoners were not disposed to trade upon the doctor's good nature. They would refuse a "pass"
until necessity compelled unequivocal submission.

Dr. Ascher was also an effective buffer between a prisoner and any soldier who was disposed
to assume an unwarrantably tyrannical attitude. If he detected any brow-beating which was undeserved
he never hesitated to bring the upstart down to his proper position by severe reprimand, and
a candid reminder that a guard was merely a guard and as such was not invested with powers
akin to those belonging to the Commandant. The soldier would fume under the castigation, but
it was more than he dared to incur the doctor's wrath and hostility, inasmuch as the latter
would not have hesitated to make the rebellious soldier's life unbearable. In this manner he
undeniably saved us from considerable brutality, which some of the soldiers would dearly have
loved to have expended upon us.

One day Major Bach announced that the clothes of the prisoners throughout the camp were to
undergo a thorough fumigation. For this purpose a special mechanical disinfecting apparatus
had been sent to the camp. I may say that the instructions were not issued before they became
downright urgent. Some of the garments--not those worn by the British prisoners--had become
infested with vermin to such a degree as to constitute a plague and were now absolutely repulsive.
Two of the British prisoners, who happened to be engineers, were selected for this unpleasant
task, and it proved to be of such a trying nature that both men narrowly escaped suffocation
in the process.

But the disinfecting apparatus was delivered in what we always found to be the typical German
manner. The fumigator came to hand but without the engine to drive it. Two or three days later
we were informed that there was a traction engine at Paderborn which was to be brought into
Sennelager Camp to act as the stationary engine to supply power to the fumigator. But to our
dismay we learned that the traction engine in question could not be driven to the camp under
its own power because some of the vital parts constituting its internals had broken down, and
repairs would be quite out of the question until it reached the camp. This we were told would
demand the towage of the engine over the last three miles. We learned, moreover, that as horses
were absolutely unobtainable at any price, the prisoners themselves would have to drag it in.
Forthwith thirty men were selected and, equipped with thick, heavy ropes, were marched off
to Paderborn to salvage the derelict.

Our engineering friends, upon discovering the defective engine, and not appreciating the prospect
of the manual haul, set to work feverishly to see if they could not contrive to complete sufficient
repairs to coax the engine to run the three miles under her own steam. They probed into, and
tinkered with the dark regions of the locomotive, but to no effect. The defective parts demanded
replacement. No doubt the authorities had declared the engine unfit for service in the army,
hence its appearance at Paderborn for service at Sennelager.

We were faced with a heavy problem; one which would require every ounce of our combined physical
effort, which was low owing to our deplorable condition, while the sun, heat, and dusty roads
would be certain to tax our endurance to the utmost.

The guards bustled round, supervising the hitching of the towing ropes, while the men were
lined up like oxen with the ropes passed over their shoulders. The order was given and off
we went. But that engine was, or at least appeared to be, exceedingly heavy, while the roads
seemed to be exasperatingly difficult, the wheels having a magnetic attraction for the sand.
Progress was maddeningly slow, and before many minutes had passed every man was puffing and
blowing like a spent horse. A cup of acorn coffee and a fragment of brown bread could scarcely
be declared ideal fare upon which to pursue such energy-consuming labour. And we had three
miles to go!

We had covered about half the distance and were nearly done in. The ponderous, ungainly engine
was just moving, and that was about all. The progress had so fallen that the guards were becoming
somewhat alarmed and doubtless considered that if they only badgered us sufficiently they would
be able to spur us to such a degree as to enable us to reach the camp.

While tugging for all we were worth we descried a horse flying along the road at break-neck
pace towards us. As it approached we saw it was carrying Dr. Ascher. When he drew up to us
he stopped. The guards were holding forth in their most truculent manner at the moment. The
doctor rapped out a few words, and the guards instantly dropped their hostility and arrogance
to become as meek as lambs. Turning to us the doctor ordered every man to drop the ropes. We
did so and fell into line at once of our own accord.

The doctor surveyed us, and we must have looked miserable specimens of humanity. Our faces
were glistening with perspiration which had been pouring out of us freely, and which, mixing
with the grimy sand which had been enveloping us, had formed runnels wrought into a wild and
weird variety of fantastic designs. One or two of the weaker boys stood half-bent as if upon
the verge of dropping.

Within a few seconds the doctor had taken in the whole situation, and saw how completely we
were played out. With a voice which cut like a knife he ordered the guard to escort us to a
wayside inn. The soldiers, thoroughly cowed, obeyed his instructions silently. He strode along
beside us, distracting our thoughts by a dissertation concerning the countryside, which was
bathed in the full splendour of its autumn garb, and which certainly presented a peaceful and
entrancing aspect.

Reaching the inn we seated ourselves on the balcony. Then the doctor, turning, remarked:

"Order what you like! Don't stint yourselves and take your time. Now then have anything you
wish to drink!"

If our guards had been sufficiently relenting, we would willingly have paid them for permission
to have regaled ourselves by the way at our own expense. We all had money. At the doctor's
instructions we dived our hands into our pockets to extract our worldly wealth to ascertain
what we could afford. The doctor arrested our action.

"No!" he called out, raising his hand in protest. "Put your money back. You will have this
with me. I extended the invitation and I certainly intend to pay for it!"

If any man had called for cheers for the doctor I think we should have brought the house down
about our ears. But we were so dumbfounded at this first expression of a "white man's" action
which we had encountered in Germany, that we could not utter a sound. We merely sat like a
party of expectant school-children at a Sunday school treat.

The doctor busied himself seeing that each man received an adequate quantity of refreshment,
and that it was according to his fancy. I myself being an abstainer, declined the beverage
which was popular and which was being keenly enjoyed. Observing that I was drinking nothing
he hurried over.

"Where's your beer?"

"Sorry, doctor, but I do not take alcohol!"

Without a word he swung on his heel, hailed the landlord, and enquired for some home-made lemonade.
Boniface was sorry but he was unable to oblige. But the doctor was not to be put off. He curtly
ordered the landlord to prepare some instantly and what is more to the point he followed him
to see that it was brewed correctly.

After the meal he insisted that we should take a brief rest to assist its digestion, which,
owing to the weakened condition of our organs, was no easy matter. Then, when we all felt fit,
we returned to the traction engine. You can imagine how we clustered round the doctor thanking
him for his kindness, but he would not listen to our expressions of gratitude. Laughing good-naturedly,
he maintained that he had done nothing beyond what he considered to be his duty, and as we
shouldered the ropes once more, he gave us a parting cheer.

That meal put new life into us, and we towed the load with such gusto that we covered the second
lap of the distance in fine style. When we reached the camp and were dismissed, the incident
about the doctor's munificence flashed through to its four corners like lightning. It became
the one topic of spirited conversation. We had always voted the doctor a jolly good fellow,
but now he was the hero of the hour. When he next came into the camp he received such a thundering
and spontaneous ovation as to startle him, until at last the reason for this outburst dawned
upon him. But he turned it off with his characteristic laugh and joke.

The privations which I had been suffering now began to assert their ill effects. I felt I was
breaking up rapidly, and in this every one concurred and grew anxious. The doctor took me in
hand, placed me on a "pass" and at last ordered me to lie down in the barrack. Two of my companions,
Ca----, a breezy Irishman who had been arrested while on his honey-moon, and K----, undertook
to look after me. As the night advanced I rapidly grew worse, until eventually my illness assumed
such a turn, so I was informed afterwards, as to cause my two friends the greatest alarm. Ca----
went out to the guard with a message addressed to Dr. Ascher, explaining that Mahoney was very
much worse and they feared his condition was critical. By some means or other the message was
got through to the doctor, possibly by telephone.

It was a vile night. A terrific thunderstorm was raging, and the rain was falling in torrents.
After dispatching their message my two friends resumed their vigil beside my bed, hoping against
hope that Dr. Ascher would call early the following morning.

About midnight the mad galloping of a horse was heard faintly above the wail of the wind and
the fusillade of the mad downpour upon our hollow-sounding roof. The sounds drew nearer to
stop outside our barrack door. A hurried conversation was heard, and the next moment, to the
surprise of my two friends, the door opened to admit Dr. Ascher. The rain was pouring off him
in tiny rivulets and he cheerily confessed that he was soaked to the skin. But he pooh-poohed
the idea that he had taken too much trouble. A fellow-creature was in peril and he could not,
as a doctor, resist the call which had been sent. He stayed with me some time, told my companions
exactly what to do, and then went out again into the rainstorm with the parting intimation
that he would return within a few hours, and would arrange for my instant transference to the
hospital.

At six he was back again. By this time I had recovered from my delirium and felt somewhat better,
although exceedingly weak. He chatted with me, told me I was far worse than I either looked
or felt, and insisted upon my going into hospital. I demurred, as I preferred to be among my
chums. But he was not to be gainsaid, and so I had reluctantly to be carried into bed. He came
to see me frequently during the day, and even went so far as to assume the responsibility of
telegraphing to Berlin demanding my instant release as my demise seemed very probable. But
this request was curtly refused, mainly, so I discovered afterwards, because I was imprisoned
upon the charge of espionage. The circumstance that this charge was still hanging over my head
came as an ugly eye-opener to me. I thought from my transference from Wesel to Sennelager that
I had been acquitted of this accusation. Of course I had never received any official intimation
to this effect, but on the other hand I had never received a sentence. This revelation worried
me somewhat sorely because I could see possibilities about which I scarcely dared to think,
as well as complications untold looming ahead.

I must have been in a very precarious condition the previous night because a member of a well-known
British family who had been interned at Sennelager, but who secured his release about this
time, very kindly sought out one of my relatives upon his return home, to whom he communicated
particulars concerning my illness and serious condition. He hesitated to notify my wife directly,
preferring to leave it to my relative to convey the unwelcome news in the manner considered
to be the most advisable. For this kindly action, of which I was apprised after my transference
from Sennelager, I have ever been extremely thankful, but up to the present I have successfully
evaded all the most insidious attempts made by my German captors to secure my premature decease
by undermining my health.

Before leaving me in hospital for the night Dr. Ascher paid me a final visit to make positive
that I was comfortable. But that one night's sojourn in the hospital almost completely unnerved
me. I could not sleep, and to my alarm I found that no one ever came in to take even a cursory
glance at the patients. I got up in the darkness and went to the door. To my astonishment I
found it to be locked! I turned to one cot. It contained a French invalid who was jabbering
away excitedly to himself, but I could not understand a single word. I turned to the next bed
and its occupant was half-delirious. With such depressing company around me I tumbled back
into bed and went off to sleep again somehow. In the morning I learned that there were three
intercommunicating wards. The two inner ones were reserved for patients, upon whom the key
was turned at night, while the third and outer room was occupied by a night warder who turned
in and slept the sleep of the just, although he was nominally in charge of critical cases.
But this was immaterial. If the patient went under during the night to be found dead in bed
in the morning--well! it was merely a case of Nature having had her own way.

I was so alarmed that the instant the hospital was opened I hurried back to my barrack. Dr.
Ascher, upon reaching the hospital and noting my absence, wondered what had happened, until
at last he found me resting in my bunk. I resolutely told him that under no circumstances would
I spend another night in that hospital. I had my own way. The crisis had passed, and if I only
took care of myself I would soon be out again, he said.

Having always led an active life, confinement to bed in utter loneliness during the day, except
for a call now and again from a sympathetic colleague, soon began to pall. So I dressed and
went out to discover Dr. Ascher. He did not upbraid me for so flagrantly disobeying his orders,
as I had been anticipating, but exhorted me with all the powers of persuasion he could command,
to take the utmost care of myself. In order to give me something to occupy my mind he attached
me to a few other invalids, who were also on "pass," to light work in cleaning out the hospitals
for the recruits who were evidently coming to Sennelager within the near future.

Cleaning hospitals might be officially described as light work, but it was far from being so,
although this was not the fault of the doctor but of our far from amiable Commandant. The tables,
beds, chairs and other portable fixtures had to be taken into the open air to receive a thorough
scrubbing with water and soft soap. We were given buckets, and were compelled to walk some
distance to draw supplies of water from the pump, to which place we also had to repair to throw
away the dirty liquid, so that we were assured of an exacting load upon both journeys.

The guard supervising us in this work was a despicable young cub. He was short and stubby.
By the way I must relate that this individual illustrated one of the weird turns of the Wheel
of Fortune as revealed by the war. I have already referred to F---- K----, who had accompanied
me from Wesel prison to Sennelager. What was F---- K----'s amazement to discover, upon entering
the camp, that this man, who formed one of the guards, had been one of his own van-men before
the war. It was a remarkable instance of the reversal of positions. The erstwhile van-man was
now the top-dog and he did not hesitate to extract endless amusement and delight from ordering
the prisoners, among whom was his former employer, to despicable duties and harassing them
right and left.

I had one bout with this impertinent little bounder which I do not think he will ever forget.
It was the result of exasperation and was precipitated upon the spur of the moment with subsequent
disastrous results.

I was carrying a bucket of water back to the pump to throw away and to secure a fresh supply.
As I approached the pump, which was near an adjoining field, and over the fence of which some
young girls were leaning talking to the sentry, I saw that they were having some fun at my
expense. I resented this laughter and merriment, more particularly as I was feeling very seedy.

The guard, to parade his assumed authority before the girls, drew himself to the full height
of his fifty-four inches or thereabouts, threw out his chest, and as I was about to empty the
bucket, roared in stentorian tones:

"Take that back again!"

"But I am going to fill the bucket with clean water!" I protested.

"Did you hear what I said? I told you to take it back again!" to which he added an afterthought
which I did not understand, but which induced the girls to burst out laughing afresh with mad glee.

I ignored his instructions and was about to turn out the dirty contents. My temper somewhat
ruffled by illness and now very hasty was rising rapidly. He moved forward and thundered:--

"Cannot you obey orders? Take it back again, I tell you!"

I picked up the bucket as if to comply and stepped back a pace or two. Then lifting it up I
shouted back,

"I'll see you damned first!"

With these words I hurled the contents over him. The water was filthy. It caught him full in
the face and smothered him from head to foot.

He was so surprised at this unexpected sequel to his arrogant order that he merely stood still,
spluttering and cursing. Then he grabbed his rifle. At the same moment I threw the bucket itself
at him, catching him a nasty blow on the shoulder. The girls who had been laughing at me now
chaffed the discomfited sentry unmercifully. Foaming with rage and swearing terribly he lowered
his rifle to run me through with the bayonet.

It was madness to argue with a bayonet in the hands of an infuriated German sentry. I turned
and fled. Being long of leg, thin, and agile, I ran with the swiftness of a hare while my pursuer
being short-legged and thick-set came trundling after me like a cart-horse. I tore towards
the hospital, vaulted over the chairs and tables, and darted in and out, with the sentry, now
beginning to blow hard from his unusual exertion, hot on my trail. In my mad rush I upset some
of my companions, but they, instantly guessing something unusual was afoot as they caught sight
of my flying coat-tails and the heavy-footed soldier chasing me, at once entered into the spirit
of the fun.

L----, our humorist, was one of the party. Jumping on a table he commenced to yell frantically:

"Sennelager Derby! What's the odds? Twenty to one on Mahoney! Go it, Tubby! Christopher, but
you'll never stay the course!"

The cries were taken up by the other fellows and excitement grew furious, which only served
to exasperate my pursuer still more.

I was flying for dear life. I knew very well, if that sentry got within bayonet reach of me,
that my days were ended. He was seeing red with a vengeance. Round the hospital, over the tables
and chairs, I dashed as if bereft. I was looking for the doctor. I had long since learned that
in the event of a disagreement with a sentry it was wise to be first beside the ears of authority
and to relate the incident. The first version, whether from guard or prisoner, was almost certain
to be believed.

Once as I came tearing round the hospital calling for one of the medical officers, L---- and
his companions, now emulating the frenzied language and manners of racecourse frequenters,
and forming field glasses with their hands, were bawling at the tops of their voices.

"Tattenham Corner! Hooray! Mahoney wins!"

At that moment I ran full tilt, not into Dr. Ascher as I had hoped, but against a young military
doctor. I almost upset him in this spirited desperate obstacle race.

"What's the matter now?" he asked in surprise.

As this young doctor had always proved to be a decent fellow I stopped and related my story.
He listened very attentively.

"You had no business to do that!" he commented. "You should have obeyed the order and then
have reported it to me or some other officer to be redressed."

"Well, he just about maddened me to the limit!"

"No matter! It may be a serious thing for you. You shouldn't have thrown the dirty water over
him. You've insulted the uniform!"

By this time my pursuer had arrived. He was puffing heavily and his legs were bent. He could
not have run another hundred yards even if a dozen battle-maddened Kilties had been after him.
Catching sight of the doctor he pulled himself to "attention" as well as he could. I had to
turn away to laugh. He presented the most ludicrous specimen of a German soldier that I have
ever witnessed. His face was as red as a beet-root from his exertion, his eyes were wide open,
while his mouth was fully agape. He could not utter a word as he had lost his breath, while
being soddened from head to foot he was commencing to steam merrily.

When he had partially recovered his composure he related his version of the story in a meek
tone, no doubt hoping to excite pity. But I noticed that the young medical officer had to bite
his moustache to maintain a straight face and I think this practically saved the situation.

"Who gave you permission to give orders to prisoners?" asked the officer severely.

The sentry's dismay at the officer rounding upon him was so complete that he could not venture
an answer.

"Don't let it occur again or I'll report you!" continued the doctor sternly. "Don't you know
your duty is to obey orders and not to give them!" he thundered with an effort. The sentry
dismissed so unceremoniously slunk away miserably and absolutely crestfallen.

When the soldier had gone the officer turned upon me and lectured me severely, though sympathetically,
upon the enormity of my offence. While he was speaking, Dr. Ascher sauntered up and the incident
was related to him. Turning to me with a gravity which I could see was assumed, he remarked:

"Mahoney, if you get up to such tricks again you'll get into serious trouble. You must never
forget the uniform!"

As I turned to resume work I noticed the two medical men having a hearty silent laugh over
the whole affair, the younger man graphically describing the blown sentry and race as he had
seen it.

But Dr. Ascher did not let the matter rest there. He reported the sentry for exceeding his
orders, which was a serious offence because it affected the doctor's discipline over prisoners
who were under his charge at the hospitals. All the reward and consolation the insolent cub
received for his parade of assumed authority before his audience of girls was change to another
duty, coupled with severe reprimand. Through Dr. Ascher's intervention the sentry was deprived
of all opportunity to snatch a revenge upon me. Such actions, however, were characteristic
of Dr. Ascher. It was his love of fair-play which endeared him to every Britisher in the camp.
Whenever one of us left Sennelager there was no man from whom to part was such a wrench as
Dr. Ascher. We all grew to like and admire him to such a degree that it seemed to be parting
from a very dear and old friend when we shook hands in farewell with him.

CHAPTER XV

THE AFTERMATH OF THE ELEVENTH

As the day of the 12th advanced without bringing any signs of official intentions to improve
our accommodation upon "the field," several of us decided to do the only thing possible--to
help ourselves. It was perfectly evident that we were not to be taken back to barracks, even
for the time being, while it was equally apparent that no tents were going to be set up for
us. Also it was quite possible that we should be exposed to another fearful storm, because
the season was advancing. Consequently it was just as well that we should improvise some kind
of shelter over our heads. The issue was where to discover the materials, since the authorities
were not disposed to extend us any assistance whatever.

The more energetic among us set to work without delay. My South African friend, Moresby White,
and myself unearthed one or two poles lying forlorn and forgotten among the grass and slush.
We secured these, set them up, and over them stretched our blankets, the improvised dwelling
thus obtained being a crude kind of wigwam. Others built little domiciles somewhat reminiscent
of an Eskimo igloo, and in this field of endeavour I may say, striking ingenuity and resourcefulness
were displayed.

My friend and I had scarcely finished our dwelling when along came some officials. They saw
what we had done, and then declared that we had taken Government material, in the form of the
neglected poles, to which we had no manner of right. Forthwith they demolished the shelter.
Intensely disgusted at this turn of events we had another look round for further material and
obtained some tree branches. We fashioned these to form the skeleton of a hut. The guard hurried
up and ordered us to take it down. For a second time our labour was in vain, but we were grimly
persevering and so ran up a third shelter. This shared the self-same fate because we had committed
a heinous breach of some one or other official regulation of which we knew nothing.

As we surveyed the ruins of our third attempt to raise something over our heads my South African
friend became exasperated. It was merely official spite which had provoked the destruction
of our little homes. He gritted his teeth and gave full vent to his innermost feelings which
were by no means complimentary to our German oppressors.

"I'm damned if we don't build something to which they cannot take exception," blurted my companion.
I concurred, but a survey of the field for materials proving abortive we became somewhat glum.
Then I suddenly hit on an idea which I explained. We would build a mud or turf hut. It would
take a little time but surely they would not knock that to pieces!

We foraged round and happened upon a spade. With this we cut the sods and built a small square-shaped
domicile into which we were able to crawl. We made it sufficiently large, not only to accommodate
our two selves but for the reception of company if necessary. It was not a masterpiece by any
means, while the interior had the rank aroma of newly-turned earth, but it was preferable to
facing the elements, should they decide to be against us once more. Other workers in the camp,
who had been foiled similarly in their efforts to fashion a home from poles and sticks, emulated
our example. Consequently within a short space of time, diminutive huts, some recalling large
beehives, were rising all over the field like mushrooms.

There was keen rivalry in the embellishment of these crude homes. Upon completing ours I decided
upon a "Tradesmen's Entrance" and carved this out, together with a winding approach, the entrance
being flanked by two mounds on one of which I planted a small flag improvised from a piece
of cardboard which I unearthed. Directly I had set up the little flag I fell foul of authority.
The hated emblem was torn up by an officious sentry whom it enraged.

These mud huts were speedily christened with high-falutin names. There were "Sans Souci" villa
and the "Haven of Rest" and others equally wildly and inappropriately named. But we considered
this an excellent chance "to wax sarcastic," and we let ourselves go, although I do not think
that our task-masters, being by nature dense, grasped the purport of our humour. Our residence
rejoiced in the unpretentious designation of "Camera Villa,"

[*large gap]

If the authorities had gleaned an inkling of the circumstance that this mud hut harboured an
incriminating eye they would have spared no effort to discover it, while I as the unfortunate
owner--well! I do not know what would have happened to me for such a flagrant breach of official
regulations.

It also seemed as if the authorities were going to deprive us of food. At all events noon passed
without any sign of dinner. In the afternoon, however, we were informed that we were to receive
the mid-day meal, but must go to the cook-house to get it. That was a mile away!

