Early to my Lord to Whitehall, and there he did give me some work to do for him, and so with
all haste to the office.  Dined at home, and my father by chance with me.  After dinner he
and I advised about hangings for my rooms, which are now almost fit to be hung, the painters
beginning to do their work to-day.  After dinner he and I to the Miter, where with my uncle
Wight (whom my father fetched thither), while I drank a glass of wine privately with Mr. Mansell,
a poor Reformado of the Charles, who came to see me.  Here we staid and drank three or four
pints of wine and so parted.  I home to look after my workmen, and at night to bed.  The Commissioners
are very busy disbanding of the army, which they say do cause great robbing.  My layings out
upon my house an furniture are so great that I fear I shall not be able to go through them
without breaking one of my bags of L100, I having but L200 yet in the world.

2nd.  With Sir Wm. Pen by water to Whitehall, being this morning visited before I went out
by my brother Tom, who told me that for his lying out of doors a day and a night my father
had forbade him to come any more into his house, at which I was troubled, and did soundly chide
him for doing so, and upon confessing his fault I told him I would speak to my father. At Whitehall
I met with Captain Clerk, and took him to the Leg in King Street, and did give him a dish or
two of meat, and his purser that was with him, for his old kindness to me on board.  After
dinner I to Whitehall, where I met with Mrs. Hunt, and was forced to wait upon Mr. Scawen at
a committee to speak for her husband, which I did.  After that met with Luellin, Mr. Fage,
and took them both to the Dog, and did give them a glass of wine.  So I see that religion,
be it what it will, is but a humour,

     [The four humours of the body described by the old physicians were
     supposed to exert their influence upon the mind, and in course of
     time the mind as well as the body was credited with its own
     particular humours.  The modern restricted use of the word humour
     did not become general until the eighteenth century.]

and so the esteem of it passeth as other things do.  From thence with him to see Robin Shaw,
who has been a long time ill, and I have not seen him since I came from sea.  He is much changed,
but in hopes to be well again. From thence by coach to my father's, and discoursed with him
about Tom, and did give my advice to take him home again, which I think he will do in prudence
rather than put him upon learning the way of being worse.  So home, and from home to Major
Hart, who is just going out of town to-morrow, and made much of me, and did give me the oaths
of supremacy and allegiance, that I may be capable of my arrears.  So home again, where my
wife tells me what she has bought to-day, namely, a bed and furniture for her chamber, with
which very well pleased I went to bed.

3d.  With Sir W. Batten and Pen by water to White Hall, where a meeting of the Dukes of York
and Albemarle, my Lord Sandwich and all the principal officers, about the Winter Guard, but
we determined of nothing.  This day Mr. Sheply and all my Lord's goods came from sea, some
of them laid of the Wardrobe and some brought to my Lord's house.  From thence to our office,
where we met and did business, and so home and spent the evening looking upon the painters
that are at work in my house.  L250 is the lowest share for every man.  But I do not find that
my Lord do much like it.  At night Dr. Fairbrother (for so he is lately made of the Civil Law)
brought home my wife by coach, it being rainy weather, she having been abroad today to buy
more furniture for her house.

4th.  This morning I was busy looking over papers at the office all alone, and being visited
by Lieut. Lambert of the Charles (to whom I was formerly much beholden), I took him along with
me to a little alehouse hard by our office, whither my cozen Thomas Pepys the turner had sent
for me to show me two gentlemen that had a great desire to be known to me, one his name is
Pepys, of our family, but one that I never heard of before, and the other a younger son of
Sir Tho. Activity.

Juvenile: "drank left." a is react, state: "me your receptor." Full: "me your abstraction." Emphasis;
thus. There is one, experiment, manus, receptor, father. Dislike, relation, questioning. Marking.
If all three, if, instance, questioning are all reply. Father, today, three out of three, six.
Reading. Apology, kid. Ringer, that first. The keep incorrect, or vice versa. REMARKS. It is interesting
to postdate. Other, below, surely, behind, however.

Bobertag has indicate, as down and down, below, behind, lots. both, reading. How may explicate down?
At theory may be progress: (1) something count on bairn have climax. (2) it may be explicate
on threshold are less excessively in contradistinction of down and
down than in discrimination of left.

Doubly, in face of flagship, of facet. So the amplitude, noddle. (3) it
may be due predilection. We understand whole, approximately, another side,
to so however are not see in sequence. Or, (4), sameness may be forth such speech.
Former oftener, far larn their significance. Horizontal contradistinction are cautiously
of status as face, indicate, used.

Plausible, it is so likely component are alternatively. Right has the trouble. To one'.
The testing. State: "i am travel to inquire." Nevertheless inquire: "which is your extremity?" About self out of
fifty, any will necessitate to react, the, again, will turn to react. Right
state which is the to be on fist. Others'hotel, since, class, one cognize which extremity, sign. One. Ask why she did
     same, she, but not her access! One
     
     who thither not more intelligent than the one who is able to react. In
     separate rearward and o'er.

Abstractor, that have to use. It is the "'letter'" that juvenile must be state to head; not the "'."
vertical, line. Church, news? We. It is just, sometimes, rapidly, cooperative, one. We. Late-rate,
they have populate, mr. Trial, switch. Correlation, reading, caption, withholding. it is potential
staid state do not have adequate, some to anticipate. Vi, . Designation. They are lettered, the,
element, degree, calciferol. Representation (that with miss), opportunity: "there is incorrect. Conspicuously.
It is leave. Me what relation." question; as, "," ",". Argument, they do not fulfill, state: "this; i
am speak. Right out of these." i does not postdate, should be and state: ", oculus." about:
"what is right out of expression?". State: "what is right out of the image?" category (if necessary).
Free, should be yield, twenty-five. Score. Pass. Sure, "peeper"
of "receptor" image; "chemoreceptor" flop "chemoreceptor" the third;
"custody" of "weaponry", somewhat. Pot., thus, success: "," or "receptor"
an first or third; "the", right. REMARKS.

Etc-name "," to be establish. Completed may be the, question, message, bitmap, world, whole,
somewhat. Fractional are to be establish, trial. Further detail will be establish, period. Detect, they
do not name. Involved may be numerical, plural, organization, barely. Aerial, (1) that fractional;
and (2) that consistent that it drank, awareness, structure, disapproval. Juvenile, equal, awareness,
is his information. "absurd," author normal. The bairn, education,
nonaccomplishment.

Their
hydra "inspiration" feline. Middle-rate this dismemberment in representation of strange. Binet, it
to annum. It has been continue in annum, writ. vi, . Home. In penny (twelvemonth, 3). Nonaccomplishment,
number, loser, late. so, attempt.

Score. If there is one. Pointing. It is sufficient without
     indicate, we was cannot that his reply may be this bearing and adequate;
for information, the were number any offspring, show.

REMARKS. Does happening educate? The question, ability. There are nevertheless 6-twelvemonth-young,
13. Inordinately, to do so age there is the context has been about. Fist, feeble-heed of 5-annum to
have a, able to larn at all. The does our acquisition. Period, it to period. All the correlation, caption,
acceleration. 7-period-past-heed can legislate, we. Vi, . Understanding, time. Twelvemonth:-- (this)
"'it is raining you?" (element) "'firing?" (degree) "'you are travel string (auto)?", 5. There
is the, juvenile, may be reiterate. Fortune. Inquiry, illustration, would be alter we state:
". You?" leer "burning" would be probable to propose speech ".". Two out of three. Questioning,
was the lesser the of score. Trial, we, unsatisfactory, inquiring. (the) If. "," "," "," ",". Consequence.
"mother". Unsatisfactory. "," "," "," "," ",". "Act". Information, inquiring, engineering. Doubtful.
"Rbi". It may be plus it can be determine. History, "," "arrive away next tomorrow,". Municipality,
to do,. "tiffin" may be the wont. (choline) if you. "," "Telephone,"
"Telephone," "brine,".

Pot. Success, of all, cookhouse; es. purine. so, "Spell," "bungalow," "remain," "bungalow,". Others
are: "you are regretful," "instead," "it," "shout," "Telephone,". doubtful. Happening, juvenile.
Breed: "Increase," "salvage," "you," "child," "." frequent as monad, them is a grandness. To do would
be to element. There may be a range, kid. Command, may be desirable.
Invariably.

(hundred) if you. We, "," "ambulance,".  per  subunit to which do
not go.

"bus" reaction must be number. Unsatisfactory. Endless. One, one has prove. Possibility, staid:
"expect," "pass," "mad," "'t," "Score," "increase," "'t," "firehouse,". doubtful. It is the
Sou'-west so infrequent that canopy. Etc, nevertheless. REMARKS. Abstraction.
Them, however, "you do if you were travel string?" there was integrate, a
was a firmly.

     Unstandardized to the probe. [53] [53] for particular, element. 158.
     Vi, . We. "Carnival, subunit, ghetto, coin, clip:" what is this?
     "If misunderstands and statement," Wealth, "or" wealth,
     
"we state:" yes, wealth? "Demo i. Evaluation. Experiment. Change,"
spot "for 25-subunit, etc. Acceleration, many first.

Questioning. REMARKS. Comprehensive, because, they, wealth. Illustration, perchance, context, abundance.
Therefore all kid by dotage have had possibility, they have neglect to we have advert. Trial.
Trial, 1-coin, 2-sous, 10-sous, 5-franc. It was exclude from Goddard. Kuhlmann. Others, please,
necessitate all four to today, received Church. 1-grade, which could
be call  per  subunit-twelvemonth-past. Experiment. vi, .

Conviction there are:-- (the)" we are having the case.

Decision. (element) "walter half-term. He." (hundred) ". Etc.". Manual should be yield as calling
follows: "instead, hear. I am travel to state. Realize? Hear to state." question, androglossia, leer.
Reaction, element. Flash, "." In reminiscence-for-question of rhenium-say.

Comprehensive. Home. Evaluation. Term out of three is being reiterate without mistake, two are reiterate
with not less than one. Skip, cannulation, heterotaxy. Orthoepy. It is sufficient that much
intact; a father at communication must be reiterate. Consequence should be enter. Empty. REMARKS.
Sub-test of remembering, it is interesting reaction: "you etc?"

As in experiment with figure, it is this reaction. It is evident. Term (one, infix, or mislay).
It would be potential, happening. Received is one question out of three with two, period. Three,
annum. Criterion, possibly, activity, age in upper. Index, but alteration, Binet, have exclude
a comprehensive. Vi. Trial: Period. It is period, inquire: "day?" If it is day, signifier, "forenoon?"
The necessary. Do not traverse-inquiring might yield. Evaluation.


                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                               NOVEMBER
                                 1660

November 1st.

     [Pepys might well be anxious on this point, for in October of this
     year Phieas Pett, assistant master shipwright at Chatham, was
     dismissed from his post for having when a Child spoken
     disrespectfully of the King.  See ante, August 23rd.]

He did make us good sport in imitating Mr. Case, Ash, and Nye, the ministers, which he did
very well, but a deadly drinker he is, and grown exceeding fat.  From his house to an ale-house
near the church, where we sat and drank and were merry, and so we mounted for London again,
Sir W. Batten with us.  We called at Bow and drank there, and took leave of Mr. Johnson of
Blackwall, who dined with us and rode with us thus far.  So home by moonlight, it being about
9 o'clock before we got home.

2nd.  Office.  Then dined at home, and by chance Mr. Holliard

     [Thomas Holliard or Hollier was appointed in 1638 surgeon for scald
     heads at St. Thomas's Hospital, and on January 25th, 1643-4, he was
     chosen surgeon in place of Edward Molins.  In 1670 his son of the
     same names was allowed to take his place during his illness.  Ward,
     in his Diary, p.  235, mentions that the porter at St. Thomas's
     Hospital told him, in 1661, of Mr. Holyard's having cut thirty for
     the stone in one year, who all lived.]

called at dinner time and dined with me, with whom I had great discourse
concerning the cure of the King's evil, which he do deny altogether any
effect at all.  In the afternoon I went forth and saw some silver bosses
put upon my new Bible, which cost me 6s. 6d.  the making, and 7s. 6d. the
silver, which, with 9s. 6d.  the book, comes in all to L1 3s. 6d. From
thence with Mr. Cooke that made them, and Mr. Stephens the silversmith to
the tavern, and did give them a pint of wine.  The Queen-mother and the Princess Henrietta came into
     London, the Queen having left this land nineteen years ago.  So
he would have had a shilling or 6d. for bringing of me so far; but I had
but 3d. about me and did give him it.  So to bed.

3d.  Saturday.  At home all the morning.  In the afternoon to White Hall, where my Lord and
Lady were gone to kiss the Queene's hand.  To Westminster Hall, where I met with Tom Doling,
and we two took Mrs. Lane to the alehouse, where I made her angry with commending of Tom Newton
and her new sweetheart to be both too good for her, so that we parted with much anger, which
made Tom and me good sport.  So home to write letters by the post, and so to bed.  Thence to
my Lord's, where I found Mr. Pierce, the surgeon, and with him and Mr. Sheply, in our way calling
at the Bell to see the seven Flanders mares that my Lord has bought lately, where we drank
several bottles of Hull ale.  Much company I found to come to her, and cannot wonder at it,
for she is very pretty and wanton.  Hence to my father's, where I found my mother in greater
and greater pain of the stone.  I staid long and drank with them, and so home and to bed. 
My wife seemed very pretty to-day, it being the first time I had given her leave to wear a
black patch.

5th (Office day).  Being disappointed of money, we failed of going to Deptford to pay off the
Henrietta to-day.  At night Mr. Moore came and sat with me, and there I took a book and he
did instruct me in many law notions, in which I took great pleasure.  To bed.

6th.  In the morning with Sir W. Batten and Pen by water to Westminster, where at my Lord's
I met with Mr. Creed.  From thence Mr. Creed and I to Wilkinson's, and dined together, and
in great haste thence to our office, where we met all, for the sale of two ships by an inch
of candle

     [The old-fashioned custom of sale by auction by inch of candle was
     continued in sales by the Admiralty to a somewhat late date.  See
     September 3rd, 1662.]

(the first time that ever I saw any of this kind), where I observed how they do invite one
another, and at last how they all do cry,--[To cry was to bid.]--and we have much to do to
tell who did cry last.  The ships were the Indian, sold for L1,300, and the Half-moon, sold
for L830. Home, and fell a-reading of the tryalls of the late men that were hanged for the
King's death, and found good satisfaction in reading thereof. At night to bed, and my wife
and I did fall out about the dog's being put down into the cellar, which I had a mind to have
done because of his fouling the house, and I would have my will, and so we went to bed and
lay all night in a quarrel.  This night I was troubled all night with a dream that my wife
was dead, which made me that I slept ill all night.

7th (Office day).  My Lord did advise with me how to get this received, and to put out L3000
into safe hands at use, and the other he will make use of for his present occasion.  So I went
to see my Lord's picture, which is almost done, and do please me very well.  Hence to Whitehall
to find out Mr. Fox, which I did, and did use me very civilly, but I did not see his lady,
whom I had so long known when she was a maid, Mrs. Whittle.  From thence meeting my father
Bowyer, I took him to Mr. Harper's, and there drank with him. Among other things in discourse
he told me how my wife's brother had a horse at grass with him, which I was troubled to hear,
it being his boldness upon my score.  Home by coach, and read late in the last night's book
of Trials, and told my wife about her brother's horse at Mr. Bowyer's, who is also much troubled
for it, and do intend to go to-morrow to inquire the truth.

     ["A Proclamation to restrain the abuses of Hackney Coaches in the
     Cities of London and Westminster and the Suburbs thereof."  This is
     printed in "Notes and Queries," First Series, vol. viii.  p. 122.
     "In April, 1663, the poor widows of hackney-coachmen petitioned for
     some relief, as the parliament had reduced the number of coaches to
     400; there were before, in and about London, more than 2,000."
     --Rugge's Diurnal.]

8th.  This morning Sir Wm. and the Treasurer and I went by barge with Sir Wm. Doyley and Mr.
Prin to Deptford, to pay off the Henrietta, and had a good dinner.  I went to Mr. Davys's and
saw his house (where I was once before a great while ago) and I found him a very pretty man.
In the afternoon Commissioner Pett and I went on board the yacht, which indeed is one of the
finest things that ever I saw for neatness and room in so small a vessel.  Mr. Pett is to make
one to outdo this for the honour of his country, which I fear he will scarce better.  From
thence with him as far as Ratcliffe, where I left him going by water to London, and I (unwilling
to leave the rest of the officers) went back again to Deptford, and being very much troubled
with a sudden looseness, I went into a little alehouse at the end of Ratcliffe, and did give
a groat for a pot of ale, and there I did .  .  .  So went forward in my walk with some men
that were going that way a great pace, and in our way we met with many merry seamen that had
got their money paid them to-day.  We sat very late doing the work and waiting for the tide,
it being moonshine we got to London before two in the morning. So home, where I found my wife
up, she shewed me her head which was very well dressed to-day, she having been to see her father
and mother.  So to bed.

9th.  Lay long in bed this morning though an office day, because of our going to bed late last
night.  Before I went to my office Mr. Creed came to me about business, and also Mr. Carter,
my old Cambridge friend, came to give me a visit, and I did give them a morning draught in
my study. So to the office, and from thence to dinner with Mr. Wivell at the Hoop Tavern, where
we had Mr. Shepley, Talbot, Adams, Mr. Chaplin and Osborne, and our dinner given us by Mr.
Ady and another, Mr. Wine, the King's fishmonger.  Good sport with Mr. Talbot, who eats no
sort of fish, and there was nothing else till we sent for a neat's tongue.  From thence to
Whitehall where I found my Lord, who had an organ set up to-day in his dining-room, but it
seems an ugly one in the form of Bridewell.  Thence I went to Sir Harry Wright's, where my
Lord was busy at cards, and so I staid below with Mrs. Carter and Evans (who did give me a
lesson upon the lute), till he came down, and having talked with him at the door about his
late business of money, I went to my father's and staid late talking with my father about my
sister Pall's coming to live with me if she would come and be as a servant (which my wife did
seem to be pretty willing to do to-day), and he seems to take it very well, and intends to
consider of it. Home and to bed.

10th.  Up early.  Sir Wm. Batten and I to make up an account of the wages of the officers and
mariners at sea, ready to present to the Committee of Parliament this afternoon.  Afterwards
came the Treasurer and Comptroller, and sat all the morning with us till the business was done.
So we broke up, leaving the thing to be wrote over fair and carried to Trinity House for Sir
Wm. Batten's hand.  When staying very long I found (as appointed) the Treasurer and Comptroller
at Whitehall, and so we went with a foul copy to the Parliament house, where we met with Sir
Thos. Clarges and Mr. Spry, and after we had given them good satisfaction we parted.  The Comptroller
and I to the coffee-house, where he shewed me the state of his case; how the King did owe him
about L6000.  So to Whitehall to look but could not find Mr. Fox, and then to Mr. Moore at
Mr. Crew's, but missed of him also.  So to Paul's Churchyard, and there bought Montelion, 
which this year do not prove so good as the last was; so after reading it I burnt it.  After
reading of that and the comedy of the Rump, which is also very silly, I went to bed. This night
going home, Will and I bought a goose.

11th (Lord's day).  This morning I went to Sir W. Batten's about going to Deptford to-morrow,
and so eating some hog's pudding of my Lady's making, of the hog that I saw a fattening the
other day at her house, he and I went to Church into our new gallery, the first time it was
used, and it not being yet quite finished, there came after us Sir W. Pen, Mr. Davis, and his
eldest son.  There being no woman this day, we sat in the foremost pew, and behind us our servants,
and I hope it will not always be so, it not being handsome for our servants to sit so equal
with us. This day also did Mr. Mills begin to read all the Common Prayer, which I was glad
of. Home to dinner, and then walked to Whitehall, it being very cold and foul and rainy weather.
I found my Lord at home, and after giving him an account of some business, I returned and went
to my father's where I found my wife, and there we supped, and Dr. Thomas Pepys, who my wife
told me after I was come home, that he had told my brother Thomas that he loved my wife so
well that if she had a child he would never marry, but leave all that he had to my child, and
after supper we walked home, my little boy carrying a link, and Will leading my wife.  So home
and to prayers and to bed.  I should have said that before I got to my Lord's this day I went
to Mr. Fox's at Whitehall, when I first saw his lady, formerly Mrs. Elizabeth Whittle, whom
I had formerly a great opinion of, and did make an anagram or two upon her name when I was
a boy.  She proves a very fine lady, and mother to fine children. To-day I agreed with Mr.
Fox about my taking of the; L4000 of him that the King had given my Lord.

12th.  Lay long in bed to-day.  Sir Wm. Batten went this morning to Deptford to pay off the
Wolf.  Mr. Comptroller and I sat a while at the office to do business, and thence I went with
him to his house in Lime Street, a fine house, and where I never was before, and from thence
by coach (setting down his sister at the new Exchange) to Westminster Hall, where first I met
with Jack Spicer and agreed with him to help me to tell money this afternoon.  Hence to De
Cretz, where I saw my Lord's picture finished, which do please me very well.  So back to the
Hall, where by appointment I met the Comptroller, and with him and three or four Parliament
men I dined at Heaven, and after dinner called at Will's on Jack Spicer, and took him to Mr.
Fox's, who saved me the labour of telling me the money by giving me; L3000 by consent (the
other L1000 I am to have on Thursday next), which I carried by coach to the Exchequer, and
put it up in a chest in Spicer's office.  From thence walked to my father's, where I found
my wife, who had been with my father to-day, buying of a tablecloth and a dozen of napkins
of diaper the first that ever I bought in my life.  My father and I took occasion to go forth,
and went and drank at Mr. Standing's, and there discoursed seriously about my sister's coming
to live with me, which I have much mind for her good to have, and yet I am much afeard of her
ill-nature. Coming home again, he and I, and my wife, my mother and Pall, went all together
into the little room, and there I told her plainly what my mind was, to have her come not as
a sister in any respect, but as a servant, which she promised me that she would, and with many
thanks did weep for joy, which did give me and my wife some content and satisfaction.  So by
coach home and to bed.  The last night I should have mentioned how my wife and I were troubled
all night with the sound of drums in our ears, which in the morning we found to be Mr. Davys's
jack,

     [The date of the origin of smoke jacks does not appear to be known,
     but the first patent taken out for an improved smoke-jack by Peter
     Clare is dated December 24th, 1770.  The smoke jack consists of a
     wind-wheel fixed in the chimney, which communicates motion by means
     of an endless band to a pulley, whence the motion is transmitted to
     the spit by gearing.  In the valuable introduction to the volume of
     "Abridgments of Specifications relating to Cooking, 1634-1866"
     (Patent Office), mention is made of an Italian work by Bartolomeo
     Scappi, published first at Rome in 1572, and afterwards reprinted at
     Venice in 1622, which gives a complete account of the kitchens of
     the time and the utensils used in them.  In the plates several
     roasting-jacks are represented, one worked by smoke or hot air and
     one by a spring.]

but not knowing the cause of its going all night, I understand to-day that they have had a
great feast to-day.

13th.  Early going to my Lord's I met with Mr. Moore, who was going to my house, and indeed
I found him to be a most careful, painful,--[Painful, i.e.  painstaking or laborious.  Latimer
speaks of the "painful magistrates."]--and able man in business, and took him by water to the
Wardrobe, and shewed him all the house; and indeed there is a great deal of room in it, but
very ugly till my Lord hath bestowed great cost upon it.  So to the Exchequer, and there took
Spicer and his fellow clerks to the Dog tavern, and did give them a peck of oysters, and so
home to dinner, where I found my wife making of pies and tarts to try, her oven with, which
she has never yet done, but not knowing the nature of it, did heat it too hot, and so a little
overbake her things, but knows how to do better another time.  At home all the afternoon. 
At night made up my accounts of my sea expenses in order to my clearing off my imprest bill
of L30 which I had in my hands at the beginning of my voyage; which I intend to shew to my
Lord to-morrow.  To bed.

14th (Office day).  But this day was the first that we do begin to sit in the afternoon, and
not in the forenoon, and therefore I went into Cheapside to Mr. Beauchamp's, the goldsmith,
to look out a piece of plate to give Mr. Fox from my Lord, for his favour about the L4,000,
and did choose a gilt tankard.  So to Paul's Churchyard and bought "Cornelianum. dolium:"

     ["Cornelianum dolium" is a Latin comedy, by T. R., published at
     London in 1638.  Douce attributed it to Thomas Randolph (d. 1635).
     The book has a frontispiece representing the sweating tub which,
     from the name of the patient, was styled Cornelius's tub.  There is
     a description of the play in the "European Magazine," vol. xxxvii.
     (1805), p. 343]

So home to dinner, and after that to the office till late at night, and so Sir W. Pen, the
Comptroller, and I to the Dolphin, where we found Sir W. Batten, who is seldom a night from
hence, and there we did drink a great quantity of sack and did tell many merry stories, and
in good humours we were all.  So home and to bed.

15th.  To Westminster, and it being very cold upon the water I went all alone to the Sun and
drank a draft of mulled white wine, and so to Mr. de Cretz, whither I sent for J. Spicer (to
appoint him to expect me this afternoon at the office, with the other L1000 from Whitehall),
and here we staid and did see him give some finishing touches to my Lord's picture, so at last
it is complete to my mind, and I leave mine with him to copy out another for himself, and took
the original by a porter with me to my Lord's, where I found my Lord within, and staid hearing
him and Mr. Child playing upon my Lord's new organ, the first time I ever heard it.  As dinner
was coming on table, my wife came to my Lord's, and I got her carried in to my Lady, who took
physic to-day, and was just now hiring of a French maid that was with her, and they could not
understand one another till my wife came to interpret.  Here I did leave my wife to dine with
my Lord, the first time he ever did take notice of her as my wife, and did seem to have a just
esteem for her.  From thence to Whitehall again by water to Mr. Fox and by two porters carried
away the other L1000.  He was not within himself, but I had it of his kinsman, and did give
him L4. and other servants something; but whereas I did intend to have given Mr. Fox himself
a piece of plate of L50 I was demanded L100, for the fee of the office at 6d. a pound, at which
I was surprised, but, however, I did leave it there till I speak with my Lord.  So I carried
it to the Exchequer, where at Will's I found Mr. Spicer, and so lodged it at his office with
the rest.  From thence after a pot of ale at Will's I took boat in the dark and went for all
that to the old Swan, and so to Sir Wm. Batten's, and leaving some of the gallants at cards
I went home, where I found my wife much satisfied with my Lord's discourse and respect to her,
and so after prayers to bed.

16th.  Up early to my father's, where by appointment Mr. Moore came to me, and he and I to
the Temple, and thence to Westminster Hall to speak with Mr. Wm. Montagu about his looking
upon the title of those lands which I do take as security for L3000 of my Lord's money.  That
being done Mr. Moore and I parted, and in the Hall I met with Mr. Fontleroy (my old acquaintance,
whom I had not seen a long time), and he and I to the Swan, and in discourse he seems to be
wise and say little, though I know things are changed against his mind.  Thence home by water,
where my father, Mr. Snow, and Mr. Moore did dine with me.  After dinner Mr. Snow and I went
up together to discourse about the putting out of L80 to a man who lacks the money and would
give me L15 per annum for 8 years for it, which I did not think profit enough, and so he seemed
to be disappointed by my refusal of it, but I would not now part with my money easily.  He
seems to do it as a great favour to me to offer to come in upon a way of getting of money,
which they call Bottomry,

     ["The contract of bottomry is a negotiable instrument, which may be
     put in suit by the person to whom it is transferred; it is in use in
     all countries of maritime commerce and interests.  A contract in the
     nature of a mortgage of a ship, when the owner of it borrows money
     to enable him to carry on the voyage, and pledges the keel or bottom
     of the ship as a security for the repayment.  If the ship be lost
     the lender loses his whole money; but if it returns in safety, then
     he shall receive back his principal, and also the premium stipulated
     to be paid, however it may exceed the usual or legal rate of
     interest."--Smyth's Sailor's WordBook.]

which I do not yet understand, but do believe there may be something in it of great profit.
After we were parted I went to the office, and there we sat all the afternoon, and at night
we went to a barrel of oysters at Sir W.  Batten's, and so home, and I to the setting of my
papers in order, which did keep me up late.  So to bed.

17th.  In the morning to Whitehall, where I inquired at the Privy Seal Office for a form for
a nobleman to make one his Chaplain.  But I understanding that there is not any, I did draw
up one, and so to my Lord's, and there I did give him it to sign for Mr. Turner to be his first
Chaplain.  I did likewise get my Lord to sign my last sea accounts, so that I am even to this
day when I have received the balance of Mr. Creed. I dined with my Lady and my Lady Pickering,
where her son John dined with us, who do continue a fool as he ever was since I knew him. His
mother would fain marry him to get a portion for his sister Betty but he will not hear of it.
Hither came Major Hart this noon, who tells me that the Regiment is now disbanded, and that
there is some money coming to me for it.  I took him to my Lord to Mr. Crew's, and from thence
with Mr. Shepley and Mr. Moore to the Devil Tavern, and there we drank.  So home and wrote
letters by the post.  Then to my lyra viall,

     [The lyre viol is a viol with extra open bass strings, holding the
     same relation to the viol as the theorbo does to the lute.  A volume
     entitled "Musick's Recreation on the Lyra Viol," was printed by John
     Playford in 1650.]

and to bed.

18th (Lord's day).  In the morning to our own church, Where Mr. Powel (a crook legged man that
went formerly with me to Paul's School), preached a good sermon.  In the afternoon to our own
church and my wife with me (the first time that she and my Lady Batten came to sit in our new
pew), and after sermon my Lady took us home and there we supped with her and Sir W. Batten,
and Pen, and were much made of.  The first time that ever my wife was there.  So home and to bed.

19th (Office day).  Going to my Lord's I met with Mr. Shepley, and so he and I to the Sun,
and I did give him a morning draft of Muscadine.

     [Muscadine or muscadel, a rich sort of wine.  'Vinum muscatum quod
     moschi odorem referat.'

              "Quaffed off the muscadel, and threw the sops
               All in the sexton's face."

               Shakespeare, Taming of the Shrew, act iii.  SC. 2.--M. B.]

And so to see my Lord's picture at De Cretz, and he says it is very like him, and I say so
too.  After that to Westminster Hall, and there hearing that Sir W. Batten was at the Leg in
the Palace, I went thither, and there dined with him and some of the Trinity House men who
had obtained something to-day at the House of Lords concerning the Ballast Office. After dinner
I went by water to London to the Globe in Cornhill, and there did choose two pictures to hang
up in my house, which my wife did not like when I came home, and so I sent the picture of Paris
back again. To the office, where we sat all the afternoon till night.  So home, and there came
Mr. Beauchamp to me with the gilt tankard, and I did pay him for it L20.  So to my musique
and sat up late at it, and so to bed, leaving my wife to sit up till 2 o'clock that she may
call the wench up to wash.

20th.  About two o'clock my wife wakes me, and comes to bed, and so both
to sleep and the wench to wash.  I rose and with Will to my Lord's by
land, it being a very hard frost, the first we have had this year.  There
I staid with my Lord and Mr. Shepley, looking over my Lord's accounts and
to set matters straight between him and Shepley, and he did commit the
viewing of these accounts to me, which was a great joy to me to see that
my Lord do look upon me as one to put trust in.  Hence to the organ, where
Mr. Child and one Mr Mackworth (who plays finely upon the violin) were
playing, and so we played till dinner and then dined, where my Lord in a
very good humour and kind to me.  Downes
     relates that an eminent poet [Lee] seeing him act Mithridates
     "vented suddenly this saying: 'Oh, Mohun, Mohun, thou little man of
     mettle, if I should write a 100, I'd write a part for thy mouth.'"
     --Roscius Anglicanus, p.  17.]

who is said to be the best actor in the world, lately come over with the King, and indeed it
is the finest play-house, I believe, that ever was in England.  From thence, after a pot of
ale with Mr. Shepley at a house hard by, I went by link home, calling a little by the way at
my father's and my uncle Fenner's, where all pretty well, and so home, where I found the house
in a washing pickle, and my wife in a very joyful condition when I told her that she is to
see the Queen next Thursday, which puts me in mind to say that this morning I found my Lord
in bed late, he having been with the King, Queen, and Princess, at the Cockpit

     [The Cockpit at Whitehall.  But while my Lord was rising, I went to Mr.
Fox's, and there did leave the gilt tankard for Mrs. Fox, and then to the
counting-house to him, who hath invited me and my wife to dine with him on
Thursday next, and so to see the Queen and Princesses.

21st.  Lay long in bed.  This morning my cozen Thomas Pepys, the turner, sent me a cupp of
lignum vitae

     [A hard, compact, black-green wood, obtained from 'Guaiacum
     offcinale', from which pestles, ship-blocks, rollers, castors, &c.,
     are turned.]

for a token.  This morning my wife and I went to Paternoster Row, and there we bought some
green watered moyre for a morning wastecoate.  And after that we went to Mr. Cade's' to choose
some pictures for our house. After that my wife went home, and I to Pope's Head, and bought
me an aggate hafted knife, which cost me 5s.  So home to dinner, and so to the office all the
afternoon, and at night to my viallin (the first time that I have played on it since I came
to this house) in my dining room, and afterwards to my lute there, and I took much pleasure
to have the neighbours come forth into the yard to hear me.  So down to supper, and sent for
the barber, who staid so long with me that he was locked into the house, and we were fain to
call up Griffith, to let him out.  So up to bed, leaving my wife to wash herself, and to do
other things against to-morrow to go to court.

22d.  This morning came the carpenters to make me a door at the other side of my house, going
into the entry, which I was much pleased with. At noon my wife and I walked to the Old Exchange,
and there she bought her a white whisk

     [A gorget or neckerchief worn by women at this time.  The Queen a very little plain old
woman, and nothing more in her presence in any respect nor garb than any
ordinary woman.  The Princess of Orange I had often seen before. The
Princess Henrietta is very pretty, but much below my expectation; and her
dressing of herself with her hair frized short up to her ears, did make
her seem so much the less to me.  But my wife standing near her with two
or three black patches on, and well dressed, did seem to me much handsomer
than she.  Dinner being done, we went to Mr. Fox's again, where many
gentlemen dined with us, and most princely dinner, all provided for me and
my friends, but I bringing none but myself and wife, he did call the
company to help to eat up so much good victuals.  At the end of dinner, my
Lord Sandwich's health was drunk in the gilt tankard that I did give to
Mrs. Fox the other day.  After dinner I had notice given me by Will my man
that my Lord did inquire for me, so I went to find him, and met him and
the Duke of York in a coach going towards Charing Cross. I endeavoured to
follow them but could not, so I returned to Mr. Fox, and after much
kindness and good discourse we parted from thence.  I took coach for my
wife and me homewards, and I light at the Maypole in the Strand, and sent
my wife home.  I to the new playhouse and saw part of the "Traitor," a
very good Tragedy; Mr. Moon did act the Traitor very well.  So to my
Lord's, and sat there with my Lady a great while talking. Among other
things, she took occasion to inquire (by Madame Dury's late discourse with
her) how I did treat my wife's father and mother.  At which I did give her
a good account, and she seemed to be very well opinioned of my wife.

23rd.  This morning standing looking upon the workmen doing of my new door to my house, there
comes Captain Straughan the Scot (to whom the King has given half of the money that the two
ships lately sold do bring), and he would needs take me to the Dolphin, and give me a glass
of ale and a peck of oysters, he and I.  He did talk much what he is able to advise the King
for good husbandry in his ships, as by ballasting them with lead ore and many other tricks,
but I do believe that he is a knowing man in sea-business.  Home and dined, and in the afternoon
to the office, where till late, and that being done Mr. Creed did come to speak with me, and
I took him to the Dolphin, where there was Mr. Pierce the purser and his wife and some friends
of theirs.  So I did spend a crown upon them behind the bar, they being akin to the people
of the house, and this being the house where Mr. Pierce was apprentice.  After they were gone
Mr. Creed and I spent an hour in looking over the account which he do intend to pass in our
office for his lending moneys, which I did advise about and approve or disapprove of as I saw
cause.  After an hour being, serious at this we parted about 11 o'clock at night.  So I home
and to bed, leaving my wife and the maid at their linen to get up.

24th.  To my Lord's, where after I had done talking with him Mr. Townsend, Rumball, Blackburn,
Creed and Shepley and I to the Rhenish winehouse, and there I did give them two quarts of Wormwood
wine,

     [Wormwood (Artemisia absinthium) is celebrated for its intensely
     bitter, tonic, and stimulating qualities, which have caused it to be
     used in various medicinal preparations, and also in the making of
     liqueurs, as wormwood wine and creme d'absinthe.]

and so we broke up.  So we parted, and I and Mr. Creed to Westminster Hall and looked over
a book or two, and so to my Lord's, where I dined with my lady, there being Mr. Child and Mrs.
Borfett, who are never absent at dinner there, under pretence of a wooing.  From thence I to
Mr. de Cretz and did take away my Lord's picture, which is now finished for me, and I paid
L3 10s. for it and the frame, and am well pleased with it and the price.  So carried it home
by water, Will being with me.  At home, and had a fire made in my closet, and put my papers
and books and things in order, and that being done I fell to entering these two good songs
of Mr. Lawes, "Helpe, helpe, O helpe," and "O God of Heaven and Hell" in my song book, to which
I have got Mr. Child to set the base to the Theorbo, and that done to bed.

25th (Lord's day).  In the forenoon I alone to our church, and after dinner I went and ranged
about to many churches, among the rest to the Temple, where I heard Dr. Wilkins' a little (late
Maister of Trinity in Cambridge). So to supper and to bed.

26th (Office day).  To it all the morning, and dined at home where my father come and dined
with me, who seems to take much pleasure to have a son that is neat in his house.  I being
now making my new door into the entry, which he do please himself much with.  After dinner
to the office again, and there till night.  And that being done the Comptroller and I to the
Mitre to a glass of wine, when we fell into a discourse of poetry, and he did repeat some verses
of his own making which were very good. Home, there hear that my Lady Batten had given my wife
a visit (the first that ever she made her), which pleased me exceedingly.  So after supper to bed.

27th.  To Whitehall, where I found my Lord gone abroad to the Wardrobe, whither he do now go
every other morning, and do seem to resolve to understand and look after the business himself.
At the Hall I met with Mr. Creed, and he and I to Hell to drink our morning draught, and so
to my Lord's again, where I found my wife, and she and I dined with him and my Lady, and great
company of my Lord's friends, and my Lord did show us great respect.  Soon as dinner was done
my wife took her leave, and went with Mr. Blackburne and his wife to London to a christening
of a Brother's child of his on Tower Hill, and I to a play, "The Scorn-full Lady," and that
being done, I went homewards, and met Mr. Moore, who had been at my house, and took him to
my father's, and we three to Standing's to drink.  From thence home, where when I come I do
remember that I did leave my boy Waineman at Whitehall with order to stay there for me in the
court, at which I was much troubled, but about 11 o'clock at night the boy came home well,
and so we all to bed.

28th.  This morning went to Whitehall to my Lord's, where Major Hart did pay me; L23 14s. 9d.,
due to me upon my pay in my Lord's troop at the time of our disbanding, which is a great blessing
to have without taking any law in the world for.  But now I must put an end to any hopes of
getting any more, so that I bless God for this.  From thence with Mr. Shepley and Pinkney to
the Sun, and did give them a glass of wine and a peck of oysters for joy of my getting this
money.  So home, where I found that Mr. Creed had sent me the L11 5s. that is due to me upon
the remains of account for my sea business, which is also so much clear money to me, and my
bill of impresse

     [For "bill of impress" In Italian 'imprestare' means "to lend."  In
     the ancient accounts of persons officially employed by the crown,
     money advanced, paid on, account, was described as "de prestito," or
     "in prestitis."--M. B.]

for L30 is also cleared, so that I am wholly clear as to the sea in all respects.  To the office,
and was there till late at night, and among the officers do hear that they may have our salaries
allowed by the Treasurer, which do make me very glad, and praise God for it.  Home to supper,
and Mr. Hater supped with me, whom I did give order to take up my money of the Treasurer to-morrow
if it can be had.  So to bed.

29th.  In the morning seeing a great deal of foul water come into my parlour from under the
partition between me and Mr. Davis, I did step thither to him and tell him of it, and he did
seem very ready to have it stopt, and did also tell me how thieves did attempt to rob his house
last night, which do make us all afraid.  This noon I being troubled that the workmen that
I have to do my door were called to Mr. Davis's away, I sent for them, when Mr. Davis sent
to inquire a reason of, and I did give him a good one, that they were come on purpose to do
some work with me that they had already begun, with which he was well pleased, and I glad,
being unwilling to anger them.  In the afternoon Sir W. Batten and I met and did sell the ship
Church for L440; and we asked L391, and that being done, I went home, and Dr. Petty came to
me about Mr. Barlow's money, and I being a little troubled to be so importuned before I had
received it, and that they would have it stopt in Mr. Fenn's hands, I did force the Doctor
to go fetch the letter of attorney that he had to receive it only to make him same labour,
which he did bring, and Mr. Hales came along with him from the Treasury with my money for the
first quarter (Michaelmas last) that ever I received for this employment.  So I paid the Dr.
L25 and had L62 10s. for myself, and L7 10s. to myself also for Will's salary, which I do intend
yet to keep for myself.  With this my heart is much rejoiced, and do bless Almighty God that
he is pleased to send so sudden and unexpected payment of my salary so soon after my great
disbursements.  So that now I am worth L200 again.  In a great ease of mind and spirit I fell
about the auditing of Mr. Shepley's last accounts with my Lord by my Lord's desire, and about
that I sat till 12 o'clock at night, till I began to doze, and so to bed, with my heart praising
God for his mercy to us.

30th (Office day).  But this we are, troubled at as some diminution to us.  I having two barrels
of oysters at home, I caused one of them and some wine to be brought to the inner room in the
office, and there the Principal Officers did go and eat them.  So we sat till noon, and then
to dinner, and to it again in the afternoon till night.  At home I sent for Mr. Hater, and
broke the other barrel with him, and did afterwards sit down discoursing of sea terms to learn
of him.  And he being gone I went up and sat till twelve at night again to make an end of my
Lord's accounts, as I did the last night.  Which at last I made a good end of, and so to bed.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                               DECEMBER
                                 1660

December 1st.  This morning, observing some things to be laid up not as they should be by the
girl, I took a broom and basted her till she cried extremely, which made me vexed, but before
I went out I left her appeased. So to Whitehall, where I found Mr. Moore attending for me at
the Privy Seal, but nothing to do to-day.  I went to my Lord St. Albans lodgings, and found
him in bed, talking to a priest (he looked like one) that leaned along over the side of the
bed, and there I desired to know his mind about making the catch stay longer, which I got ready
for him the other day.  He seems to be a fine civil gentleman.  To my Lord's, and did give
up my audit of his accounts, which I had been then two days about, and was well received by
my Lord.  I dined with my Lord and Lady, and we had a venison pasty.  Mr. Shepley and I went
into London, and calling upon Mr. Pinkney, the goldsmith, he took us to the tavern, and gave
us a pint of wine, and there fell into our company old Mr. Flower and another gentleman; who
tell us how a Scotch knight was killed basely the other day at the Fleece in Covent Garden,
where there had been a great many formerly killed.  So to Paul's Churchyard, and there I took
the little man at Mr. Kirton's and Mr. Shepley to Ringstead's at the Star, and after a pint
of wine I went home, my brains somewhat troubled with so much wine, and after a letter or two
by the post I went to bed.

2d (Lord's day).  My head not very well, and my body out of order by last night's drinking,
which is my great folly.  To church, and Mr. Mills made a good sermon; so home to dinner. 
My wife and I all alone to a leg of mutton, the sawce of which being made sweet, I was angry
at it, and eat none, but only dined upon the marrow bone that we had beside.  To church in
the afternoon, and after sermon took Tom Fuller's Church History and read over Henry the 8th's
life in it, and so to supper and to bed.

3rd.  This morning I took a resolution to rise early in the morning, and so I rose by candle,
which I have not done all this winter, and spent my morning in fiddling till time to go to
the office, where Sir G. Carteret did begin again discourse on Mr. Holland's proposition, which
the King do take very ill, and so Sir George in lieu of that do propose that the seamen should
have half in ready money and tickets for the other half, to be paid in three months after,
which we judge to be very practicable. After office home to dinner, where come in my cozen
Snow by chance, and I had a very good capon to dinner.  So to the office till night, and so
home, and then come Mr. Davis, of Deptford (the first time that ever he was at my house), and
after him Mons. L'Impertinent, who is to go to Ireland to-morrow, and so came to take his leave
of me.  They both found me under the barber's hand; but I had a bottle of good sack in the
house, and so made them very welcome.  Mr. Davis sat with me a good while after the other was
gone, talking of his hard usage and of the endeavour to put him out of his place in the time
of the late Commissioners, and he do speak very highly of their corruption.  After he was gone
I fell a reading 'Cornelianum dolium' till 11 o'clock at night with great pleasure, and after
that to bed.

4th.  To Whitehall to Sir G. Carteret's chamber, where all the officers met, and so we went
up to the Duke of York, and he took us into his closet, and we did open to him our project
of stopping the growing charge of the fleet by paying them in hand one moyety, and the other
four months hence.  This he do like, and we returned by his order to Sir G. Carteret's chamber,
and there we did draw up this design in order to be presented to the Parliament.  From thence
I to my Lord's, and dined with him and told him what we had done to-day.  Sir Tho. Crew dined
with my Lord to-day, and we were very merry with Mrs. Borfett, who dined there still as she
has always done lately.  After dinner Sir Tho. and my Lady to the Playhouse to see "The Silent
Woman."  I home by water, and with Mr. Hater in my chamber all alone he and I did put this
morning's design into order, which being done I did carry it to Sir W. Batten, where I found
some gentlemen with him (Sir W. Pen among the rest pretty merry with drink) playing at cards,
and there I staid looking upon them till one o'clock in the morning, and so Sir W. Pen and
I went away, and I to bed.

5th.  This morning the Proposal which I wrote the last night I showed to the officers this
morning, and was well liked of, and I wrote it fair for Sir. G. Carteret to show to the King,
and so it is to go to the Parliament.  I dined at home, and after dinner I went to the new
Theatre and there I saw "The Merry Wives of Windsor" acted, the humours of the country gentleman
and the French doctor very well done, but the rest but very poorly, and Sir J. Falstaffe t
as bad as any.  From thence to Mr. Will. Montagu's chamber to have sealed some writings tonight
between Sir R. Parkhurst and myself about my Lord's L2000, but he not coming, I went to my
father's and there found my mother still ill of the stone, and had just newly voided one, which
she had let drop into the chimney, and looked and found it to shew it me.  From thence home
and to bed.

6th.  This morning some of the Commissioners of Parliament and Sir W. Batten went to Sir G.
Carteret's office here in town, and paid off the Chesnut.  I carried my wife to White Friars
and landed her there, and myself to Whitehall to the Privy Seal, where abundance of pardons
to seal, but I was much troubled for it because that there are no fees now coming for them
to me.  Thence Mr. Moore and I alone to the Leg in King Street, and dined together on a neat's
tongue and udder.  From thence by coach to Mr. Crew's to my Lord, who told me of his going
out of town to-morrow to settle the militia in Huntingdonshire, and did desire me to lay up
a box of some rich jewels and things that there are in it, which I promised to do.  After much
free discourse with my Lord, who tells me his mind as to his enlarging his family, &c., and
desiring me to look him out a Master of the Horse and other servants, we parted.  From thence
I walked to Greatorex (he was not within), but there I met with Mr. Jonas Moore,

     [Jonas Moore was born at Whitley, Lancashire, February 8th, 1617,
     and was appointed by Charles I. tutor to the Duke of York.  Soon
     after the Restoration he was knighted and made Surveyor-General of
     the Ordnance.  He was famous as a mathematician, and was one of the
     founders of the Royal Society.  He died August 27th, 1679, and at
     his funeral sixty pieces of ordnance were discharged at the Tower.]

and took him to the Five Bells,' and drank a glass of wine and left him. To the Temple, when
Sir R. Parkhurst (as was intended the last night) did seal the writings, and is to have the
L2000 told to-morrow.  From, thence by water to Parliament Stairs, and there at an alehouse
to Doling (who is suddenly to go into Ireland to venture his fortune); Simonds (who is at a
great loss for L200 present money, which I was loth to let him have, though I could now do
it, and do love him and think him honest and sufficient, yet lothness to part with money did
dissuade me from it); Luellin (who was very drowsy from a dose that he had got the last night),
Mr. Mount and several others, among the rest one Mr. Pierce, an army man, who did make us the
best sport for songs and stories in a Scotch tone (which he do very well) that ever I heard
in my life.  I never knew so good a companion in all my observation.  From thence to the bridge
by water, it being a most pleasant moonshine night, with a waterman who did tell such a company
of bawdy stories, how once he carried a lady from Putney in such a night as this, and she bade
him lie down by her, which he did, and did give her content, and a great deal more roguery.
Home and found my girl knocking at the door (it being 11 o'clock at night), her mistress having
sent her out for some trivial business, which did vex me when I came in, and so I took occasion
to go up and to bed in a pet. Before I went forth this morning, one came to me to give me notice
that the justices of Middlesex do meet to-morrow at Hicks Hall, and that I as one am desired
to be there, but I fear I cannot be there though I much desire it.

7th.  This morning the judge Advocate Fowler came to see me, and he and I sat talking till
it was time to go to the office.  To the office and there staid till past 12 o'clock, and so
I left the Comptroller and Surveyor and went to Whitehall to my Lord's, where I found my Lord
gone this morning to Huntingdon, as he told me yesterday he would.  I staid and dined with
my Lady, there being Laud the page's mother' there, and dined also with us, and seemed to have
been a very pretty woman and of good discourse.  Before dinner I examined Laud in his Latin
and found him a very pretty boy and gone a great way in Latin.  After dinner I took a box of
some things of value that my Lord had left for me to carry to the Exchequer, which I did, and
left them with my Brother Spicer, who also had this morning paid L1000 for me by appointment
to Sir R. Parkhurst. So to the Privy Seal, where I signed a deadly number of pardons, which
do trouble me to get nothing by. Home by water, and there was much pleased to see that my little
room is likely to come to be finished soon.  I fell a-reading Fuller's History of Abbys, and
my wife in Great Cyrus till twelve at night, and so to bed.

8th.  To Whitehall to the Privy Seal, and thence to Mr. Pierces the Surgeon to tell them that
I would call by and by to go to dinner.  But I going into Westminster Hall met with Sir G.
Carteret and Sir W. Pen (who were in a great fear that we had committed a great error of L100,000
in our late account gone into the Parliament in making it too little), and so I was fain to
send order to Mr. Pierces to come to my house; and also to leave the key of the chest with
Mr. Spicer; wherein my Lord's money is, and went along with Sir W. Pen by water to the office,
and there with Mr. Huchinson we did find that we were in no mistake.  And so I went to dinner
with my wife and Mr. and Mrs. Pierce the Surgeon to Mr. Pierce, the Purser (the first time
that ever I was at his house) who does live very plentifully and finely.  We had a lovely chine
of beef and other good things very complete and drank a great deal of wine, and her daughter
played after dinner upon the virginals,

     [All instruments of the harpsichord and spinet kind were styled
     virginals.]

and at night by lanthorn home again, and Mr. Pierce and his wife being gone home I went to
bed, having drunk so much wine that my head was troubled and was not very well all night, and
the wind I observed was rose exceedingly before I went to bed.

9th (Lord's day).  Being called up early by Sir W. Batten I rose and went to his house and
he told me the ill news that he had this morning from Woolwich, that the Assurance (formerly
Captain Holland's ship, and now Captain Stoakes's, designed for Guiny and manned and victualled),
was by a gust of wind sunk down to the bottom.  Twenty men drowned.  Sir Williams both went
by barge thither to see how things are, and I am sent to the Duke of York to tell him, and
by boat with some other company going to Whitehall from the Old Swan.  From thence going to
my Lady I met with a letter from my Lord (which Andrew had been at my house to bring me and
missed me), commanding me to go to Mr. Denham, to get a man to go to him to-morrow to Hinchinbroke,
to contrive with him about some alterations in his house, which I did and got Mr. Kennard.
Dined with my Lady and staid all the afternoon with her, and had infinite of talk of all kind
of things, especially of beauty of men and women, with which she seems to be much pleased to
talk of.  From thence at night to Mr. Kennard and took him to Mr. Denham, the Surveyor's. 
Where, while we could not speak with him, his chief man (Mr. Cooper) did give us a cup of good
sack.  From thence with Mr. Kennard to my Lady who is much pleased with him, and after a glass
of sack there; we parted, having taken order for a horse or two for him and his servant to
be gone to-morrow.  So to my father's, where I sat while they were at supper, and I found my
mother below, stairs and pretty well. Thence home, where I hear that the Comptroller had some
business with me, and (with Giffin's lanthorn) I went to him and there staid in discourse an
hour 'till late, and among other things he showed me a design of his, by the King's making
an Order of Knights of the Seal to give an encouragement for persons of honour to undertake
the service of the sea, and he had done it with great pains and very ingeniously.  So home
and to prayers and to bed.

10th.  Up exceedingly early to go to the Comptroller, but he not being up and it being a very
fine, bright, moonshine morning I went and walked all alone twenty turns in Cornhill, from
Gracious Street corner to the Stockes and back again, from 6 o'clock till past 7, so long that
I was weary, and going to the Comptroller's thinking to find him ready, I found him gone, at
which I was troubled, and being weary went home, and from thence with my wife by water to Westminster,
and put her to my father Bowyer's (they being newly come out of the country), but I could not
stay there, but left her there.  I to the Hall and there met with Col. Slingsby.  So hearing
that the Duke of York is gone down this morning, to see the ship sunk yesterday at Woolwich,
he and I returned by his coach to the office, and after that to dinner.  He and I in the evening
to the Coffee House in Cornhill, the first time that ever I was there, and I found much pleasure
in it, through the diversity of company and discourse.  Home and found my wife at my Lady Batten's,
and have made a bargain to go see the ship sunk at Woolwich, where both the Sir Williams are
still since yesterday, and I do resolve to go along with them.  From thence home and up to
bed, having first been into my study, and to ease my mind did go to cast up how my cash stands,
and I do find as near as I can that I am worth in money clear L240, for which God be praised.
This afternoon there was a couple of men with me with a book in each of their hands, demanding
money for pollmoney,

     [Pepys seems to have been let off very easily, for, by Act of
     Parliament 18 Car. II. cap. I (1666), servants were to pay one
     shilling in the pound of their wages, and others from one shilling
     to three shillings in the pound.]

and I overlooked the book and saw myself set down Samuel Pepys, gent. 10s. for himself and
for his servants 2s., which I did presently pay without any dispute, but I fear I have not
escaped so, and therefore I have long ago laid by L10 for them, but I think I am not bound
to discover myself.

11th.  My wife and I up very early this day, and though the weather was very bad and the wind
high, yet my Lady Batten and her maid and we two did go by our barge to Woolwich (my Lady being
very fearfull) where we found both Sir Williams and much other company, expecting the weather
to be better, that they might go about weighing up the Assurance, which lies there (poor ship,
that I have been twice merry in, in Captn. Holland's time,) under water, only the upper deck
may be seen and the masts. Captain Stoakes is very melancholy, and being in search for some
clothes and money of his, which he says he hath lost out of his cabin.  I did the first office
of a justice of Peace to examine a seaman thereupon, but could find no reason to commit him.
This last tide the Kingsale was also run aboard and lost her mainmast, by another ship, which
makes us think it ominous to the Guiny voyage, to have two of her ships spoilt before they
go out. After dinner, my Lady being very fearfull she staid and kept my wife there, and I and
another gentleman, a friend of Sir W. Pen's, went back in the barge, very merry by the way,
as far as Whitehall in her.  To the Privy Seal, where I signed many pardons and some few things
else.  From thence Mr. Moore and I into London to a tavern near my house, and there we drank
and discoursed of ways how to put out a little money to the best advantage, and at present
he has persuaded me to put out L250 for L50 per annum for eight years, and I think I shall
do it. Thence home, where I found the wench washing, and I up to my study, and there did make
up an even L100, and sealed it to lie by.  After that to bed.

12th.  Troubled with the absence of my wife.  This morning I went (after the Comptroller and
I had sat an hour at the office) to Whitehall to dine with my Lady, and after dinner to the
Privy Seal and sealed abundance of pardons and little else.  From thence to the Exchequer and
did give my mother Bowyer a visit and her daughters, the first time that I have seen them since
I went last to sea.  From thence up with J. Spicer to his office and took L100, and by coach
with it as far as my father's, where I called to see them, and my father did offer me six pieces
of gold, in lieu of six pounds that he borrowed of me the other day, but it went against me
to take it of him and therefore did not, though I was afterwards a little troubled that I did
not.  Thence home, and took out this L100 and sealed it up with the other last night, it being
the first L200 that ever I saw together of my own in my life.  For which God be praised.  So
to my Lady Batten, and sat an hour or two, and talked with her daughter and people in the absence
of her father and mother and my wife to pass away the time. After that home and to bed, reading
myself asleep, while the wench sat mending my breeches by my bedside.

13th.  All the day long looking upon my workmen who this day began to paint my parlour.  Only
at noon my Lady Batten and my wife came home, and so I stepped to my Lady's, where were Sir
John Lawson and Captain Holmes, and there we dined and had very good red wine of my Lady's
own making in England.

14th.  Also all this day looking upon my workmen.  Only met with the Comptroller at the office
a little both forenoon and afternoon, and at night step a little with him to the Coffee House
where we light upon very good company and had very good discourse concerning insects and their
having a generative faculty as well as other creatures.  This night in discourse the Comptroller
told me among other persons that were heretofore the principal officers of the Navy, there
was one Sir Peter Buck, a Clerk of the Acts, of which to myself I was not a little proud.

15th.  All day at home looking upon my workmen, only at noon Mr. Moore came and brought me
some things to sign for the Privy Seal and dined with me.  We had three eels that my wife and
I bought this morning of a man, that cried them about, for our dinner, and that was all I did
to-day.

16th.  In the morning to church, and then dined at home.  From thence with Tom Doling and Boston
and D. Vines (whom we met by the way) to Price's, and there we drank, and in discourse I learnt
a pretty trick to try whether a woman be a maid or no, by a string going round her head to
meet at the end of her nose, which if she be not will come a great way beyond.  Thence to my
Lady's and staid with her an hour or two talking of the Duke of York and his lady, the Chancellor's
daughter, between whom, she tells me, that all is agreed and he will marry her.  But I know
not how true yet.  It rained hard, and my Lady would have had me have the coach, but I would
not, but to my father's, where I met my wife, and there supped, and after supper by link home
and to bed.

17th.  All day looking after my workmen, only in the afternoon to the office where both Sir
Williams were come from Woolwich, and tell us that, contrary to their expectations, the Assurance
is got up, without much damage to her body, only to the goods that she hath within her, which
argues her to be a strong, good ship.  This day my parlour is gilded, which do please me well.

18th.  All day at home, without stirring at all, looking after my workmen.

19th.  At noon I went and dined with my Lady at Whitehall, and so back again to the office,
and after that home to my workmen.  This night Mr. Gauden sent me a great chine of beef and
half a dozen of tongues.

20th.  All day at home with my workmen, that I may get all done before Christmas.  This day
I hear that the Princess Royal has the small pox.

21st.  By water to Whitehall (leaving my wife at Whitefriars going to my father's to buy her
a muff and mantle), there I signed many things at the Privy Seal, and carried L200 from thence
to the Exchequer, and laid it up with Mr. Hales, and afterwards took him and W.  Bowyer to
the Swan and drank with them.  After dinner to the office all the afternoon.  At seven at night
I walked through the dirt to Whitehall to see whether my Lord be come to town, and I found
him come and at supper, and I supped with him.  He tells me that my aunt at Brampton has voided
a great stone (the first time that ever I heard she was troubled therewith) and cannot possibly
live long, that my uncle is pretty well, but full of pain still. After supper home and to bed.

22nd.  All the morning with my painters, who will make an end of all this day I hope.  At noon
I went to the Sun tavern; on Fish Street hill, to a dinner of Captn. Teddimans, where was my
Lord Inchiquin (who seems to be a very fine person), Sir W. Pen, Captn. Cuttance, and one Mr.
Lawrence (a fine gentleman now going to Algiers), and other good company, where we had a very
fine dinner, good musique, and a great deal of wine.  We staid here very late, at last Sir
W. Pen and I home together, he so overcome with wine that he could hardly go; I was forced
to lead him through the streets and he was in a very merry and kind mood.  I home (found my
house clear of the workmen and their work ended), my head troubled with wine, and I very merry
went to bed, my head akeing all night.

23rd (Lord's day).  In the morning to Church, where our pew all covered with rosemary and baize.
A stranger made a dull sermon.  Home and found my wife and maid with much ado had made shift
to spit a great turkey sent me this week from Charles Carter, my old colleague, now minister
in Huntingdonshire, but not at all roasted, and so I was fain to stay till two o'clock, and
after that to church with my wife, and a good sermon there was, and so home.  All the evening
at my book, and so to supper and to bed.

24th.  In the morning to the office and Commissioner Pett (who seldom comes there) told me
that he had lately presented a piece of plate (being a couple of flaggons) to Mr. Coventry,
but he did not receive them, which also put me upon doing the same too; and so after dinner
I went and chose a payre of candlesticks to be made ready for me at Alderman Backwell's. To
the office again in the afternoon till night, and so home, and with the painters till 10 at
night, making an end of my house and the arch before my door, and so this night I was rid of
them and all other work, and my house was made ready against to-morrow being Christmas day.
This day the Princess Royal died at Whitehall.

25th (Christmas day).  In the morning very much pleased to see my house once more clear of
workmen and to be clean, and indeed it is so, far better than it was that I do not repent of
my trouble that I have been at.  After dinner to church again, my wife and I, where we had
a dull sermon of a stranger, which made me sleep, and so home, and I, before and after supper,
to my lute and Fuller's History, at which I staid all alone in my chamber till 12 at night,
and so to bed.

26th.  In the morning to Alderman Backwell's for the candlesticks for Mr. Coventry, but they
being not done I went away, and so by coach to Mr. Crew's, and there took some money of Mr.
Moore's for my Lord, and so to my Lord's, where I found Sir Thomas Bond (whom I never saw before)
with a message from the Queen about vessells for the carrying over of her goods, and so with
him to Mr. Coventry, and thence to the office (being soundly washed going through the bridge)
to Sir Wm.  Thence to my father Bowyer's where I met my wife, and with her home by water.

27th.  In the morning to Alderman Backwell's again, where I found the candlesticks done, and
went along with him in his coach to my Lord's and left the candlesticks with Mr. Shepley. 
I staid in the garden talking much with my Lord, who do show me much of his love and do communicate
his mind in most things to me, which is my great content.  Home and with my wife to Sir W.
Batten's to dinner, where much and good company.  My wife not very well went home, I staid
late there seeing them play at cards, and so home to bed.  This afternoon there came in a strange
lord to Sir William Batten's by a mistake and enters discourse with him, so that we could not
be rid of him till Sir Arn. Breames and Mr. Bens and Sir W. Pen fell a-drinking to him till
he was drunk, and so sent him away. About the middle of the night I was very ill--I think with
eating and drinking too much--and so I was forced to call the maid, who pleased my wife and
I in her running up and down so innocently in her smock, and vomited in the bason, and so to
sleep, and in the morning was pretty well, only got cold, and so had pain .  .  .  .  as I
used to have.

28th.  Office day.  There all the morning.  Dined at home alone with my wife, and so staid
within all the afternoon and evening; at my lute, with great pleasure, and so to bed with great
content.

29th.  Within all the morning.  Several people to speak with me; Mr. Shepley for L100; Mr.
Kennard and Warren, the merchant, about deals for my Lord.  Captain Robert Blake lately come
from the Straights about some Florence Wine for my Lord, and with him I went to Sir W. Pen,
who offering me a barrel of oysters I took them both home to my house (having by chance a good
piece of roast beef at the fire for dinner), and there they dined with me, and sat talking
all the afternoon-good company. Thence to Alderman Backwell's and took a brave state-plate
and cupp in lieu of the candlesticks that I had the other day and carried them by coach to
my Lord's and left them there.  And so back to my father's and saw my mother, and so to my
uncle Fenner's, whither my father came to me, and there we talked and drank, and so away; I
home with my father, he telling me what bad wives both my cozen Joyces make to their husbands,
which I much wondered at.  After talking of my sister's coming to me next week, I went home
and to bed.

30th (Lord's day).  Lay long in bed, and being up, I went with Will to my Lord's, calling in
at many churches in my way.  There I found Mr. Shepley, in his Venetian cap, taking physique
in his chamber, and with him I sat till dinner.  My Lord dined abroad and my Lady in her chamber,
so Mr. Hetly, Child and I dined together, and after dinner Mr. Child and I spent some time
at the lute, and so promising to prick me some lessons to my theorbo he went away to see Henry
Laws, who lies very sick.  I to the Abby and walked there, seeing the great confusion of people
that come there to hear the organs.  So home, calling in at my father's, but staid not, my
father and mother being both forth.  At home I fell a-reading of Fuller's Church History till
it was late, and so to bed. 

"what do you call an mr?" he demanded laughingly. "fortunately," the man, "there is there be
no water is not thorold office." He slipped his arm, and where James'white watched
him doing around eyes that shone from company.
  At Whitehall inquiring for a coach, there was a Frenchman with
one eye that was going my way, so he and I hired the coach between us and he set me down in
Fenchurch Street. Strange how the fellow, without asking, did tell me all what he was, and
how he had ran away from his father and come into England to serve the King, and now going
back again.  Home and to bed.

