Shortly after our return home, however, he had a third seizure from which he never awoke, but,
to my profound sorrow, passed quietly away. Just before the end came I noticed his lips move
slightly as though he were trying to speak, and on bending down to listen I thought I caught
faintly what sounded like the words, "I am coming," but whether this really were so I could
not be sure.

I will not dwell upon the pain and sorrow of that dark and dreary portion of my life when I
was left quite alone, without a single relative to cheer me, but merely say that my grief at
his loss was so overwhelming that it was long before my former mode of living could be resumed.
John Claxton was almost as deeply affected as myself, for poor Mark was a most affectionate
lad, and had greatly endeared himself to both of us. John also had his own troubles, having
lost his father during the previous year, and was then living with an aunt and two cousins,
but had never been comfortable with them, as both the boys were rather wild, and of anything
but good dispositions. He had inherited a substantial income from his father, but this piece
of good fortune only aroused the jealousy and envy of his cousins, who only seemed to tolerate
his presence in their home because of what they could obtain from him by their sponging propensities.

Although I was not rich, my income was amply sufficient to render me quite independent of work,
and as I felt most lonely and desolate since Mark's death, I at length begged John to come
and live with me. He joyfully agreed, and from that time our relations have practically been
those of father and son. As our dispositions and likings are very similar, we are as happy
together as past sorrows will permit.

John always had a great fancy for engineering and electrical work, in which, after some years
of training, he became an expert. Being well endowed with the faculty of invention, he devised
and constructed many new kinds of electric and magnetic machines, and as my tastes also run
in the direction of mechanical work, I have also done a great deal in connection with such matters.

About six years ago, when the problem of aerial navigation began to be studied in earnest,
John became greatly interested in the matter, devoting all his time and energies to designing
and constructing working models of air-ships, aeroplanes, and other flying machines.

At that period I was very keen on Martian matters, to such an extent indeed that my mind was
always occupied with the various problems they presented. One day, in the course of conversation,
I suggested that it would be a splendid thing if we could construct a vessel which would enable
us to visit Mars and see it for ourselves, and thus settle all our doubts and speculations
on the various controversial points which were so much discussed.

The idea soon had him in its grip, and he then immediately commenced a series of experiments
with a view to designing machinery capable of carrying a vessel through space. After many failures
he thought out a plan for utilising the earth's gravitation and magnetism as a means of obtaining
the requisite power and storing it up for future use. This scheme was thoroughly tested and
proved to have solved the problem, for the machinery could transform the power from either
positive or negative to neutral.

The task of making the vessel and machinery was of course too great for two pairs of hands
to undertake, and we were therefore under the necessity of obtaining a third man to help us.
John had known M'Allister when he was studying electrical work, and suggested that, if available,
he would be just the man to suit us. We at once communicated with him, making a liberal offer
for his assistance in our scheme, and as it was a question of dealing with an entirely new
kind of machinery it appealed to his professional pride, so, being out of an engagement, he
gladly accepted our offer. He came over to my house and has lived with us ever since, apparently
quite in his element. M'Allister was about fifty years of age when he joined us, married, but
without children. His wife's home was at Glasgow, and owing to his so often being away at sea
for long periods, she had become so accustomed to the separation that she declined our offer
to find a home for herself and her husband near us. She paid him a visit occasionally, or he
went to spend a few days with her, but as a permanent arrangement she preferred staying with
her relatives in Glasgow. It was not exactly my ideal of married life, but as the couple always
seemed happy enough when together, and the arrangement appeared to suit them both, it was not
my place to make any comment.

My house on the outskirts of Norbury was well situated for securing the privacy we required
in carrying on our work and experiments, lying as it did in the valley on the westward side
of a small eminence known as Pollard's Hill, which effectually screened us from observation
by the inhabitants of the houses in the London Road. Thus we enjoyed complete seclusion, although
not more than a quarter of a mile from that busy thoroughfare.

Notwithstanding that Pollard's Hill is only a small elevation, and its rise scarcely noticed
when approached from the London Road, when its summit is gained one is astonished by the extensive
and splendid view it commands over hills and valleys, town and country; and it breaks upon
one almost as a startling surprise when its beauties are seen for the first time. It is, indeed,
so very unexpected to come upon such a fine and far-spreading view so suddenly and so close
to bricks and mortar. Alas! the latter are fast encroaching upon this delightful but somewhat
neglected spot, and unless the Croydonians are wise enough to secure the acquirement of the
summit of the hill as a public open space, this splendid view will be entirely lost to future
generations.

A further advantage of our situation was its nearness to Croydon and Wallington, where there
were engineering and electrical machinery works; besides which we also had convenient and easy
means of reaching the metropolis, from whence we could travel to any other town to purchase
or order anything we might require.

Once we had fairly set to work our progress was rapid and our vessel had practically been complete
nearly a year, since when we have undertaken many voyages at night in order to test its powers
and to ascertain where improvements were needed.

We were much amused to find in the newspapers of this period, especially in the London Press,
numerous letters from various parts of England describing the appearance of a strange and very
brilliant star in the sky, either at night or in the morning hours before sunrise. Some described
the star as moving in one direction, others stated that it passed in quite another direction;
though it does not appear to have occurred to any one that stars do not move in this eccentric
fashion, nor at the rapid rate at which this peculiar star was stated to travel. No one guessed
that it was the light of our air-ship which they saw as we flitted about the country in the
dark hours, and often at extremely high altitudes.

Three extensive fields were occupied by me in connection with my residence, and these afforded
plenty of room for our large shed and workshops; whilst as north, south, and west of us there
was a large stretch of open country, extending in some directions for miles, there was little
risk of our operations attracting attention. Moreover, we were always careful not to prepare
for any ascent until it was fairly dark.

Our establishment was a small one, Mrs. Challen being our only indoor servant. She came to
me as a young widow after my wife's death, and has proved an excellent manager and a most trustworthy
servant. I have therefore left my house in her charge with a feeling of entire certainty that
it will be well looked after in my absence. My solicitors have a sealed packet containing full
instructions as to what is to be done in the event of my not returning home or communicating
with them within fifteen months from the date of our departure.

Altogether, our little party of three has been a very agreeable one up to the present. John
Claxton is a splendid fellow--a good talker when in the humour, and an excellent listener when
either myself or M'Allister are in the vein for airing our own particular views. He is rather
fond of chaffing M'Allister, who has a quiet humour of his own, and takes it all in good part.
John has only one weakness--he has become a most inveterate smoker, and we have learned by
experience that in this matter his wishes must never be opposed. Both M'Allister and myself
are also smokers, though to a much less extent; the former, indeed, more often prefers to chew
navy plug-tobacco--a habit which I am glad to say I never acquired, but it is a pretty general
one amongst those who have been employed on sea-going vessels. In these matters it is an understood
thing that each is to do as he pleases, without let or hindrance.

One more point and then I will finish this rather long but very necessary digression. In conversation
I am generally addressed by my colleagues as "Professor." Not that I ever occupied a Professorial
Chair at a university or elsewhere, but it arose in this way: When John first came to live
with me he felt a diffidence, owing to the disparity between our ages, in addressing me by
my Christian name; on the other hand, to call me by my surname seemed to him far too cold and
formal. So on one occasion, when I had been holding forth on my favourite science, he remarked,
"I think, sir, if you will allow me, I shall call you 'Professor' in future; the title seems
most appropriate for one who has the power of conveying information on scientific subjects
in so clear and interesting a manner."

I was much amused at this proposal, but fully appreciating the difficulty he felt in the matter,
replied, "John, you really flatter me too much; but as you seem to think the title fits, you
may call me by it if you like." So from that time forth John always addressed me as "Professor,"
and from hearing him constantly using the term, M'Allister soon acquired the same habit. I
am afraid they both credited me with rather more erudition than I really possessed; but although
I should never attempt to talk at large on matters with which I was not fully acquainted, I
have lived long enough to know that it is not always wise to go very far in disillusioning
others of the favourable opinions they may have formed respecting one's own abilities. It is,
perhaps, one of those matters in which "a still tongue makes a wise head"; and, if dealt with
in a tactful way, may be of real advantage to both persons. The one will continue to be receptive
of the ideas of the person whom he esteems as well qualified to impart sound and reliable information,
whilst the other will honestly endeavour to live up to his reputation, and be most scrupulously
careful to make sure of the accuracy of the information which he desires to impart.

CHAPTER III

WE APPROACH THE MOON--A MAGNIFICENT SPECTACLE

When we had finished our supper John remarked, "Professor, I am a little mystified in regard
to our present position. We have started on a voyage to Mars, but up to the present I have
not seen even a glimpse of the planet to-night. How is that?"

"Hear, hear," chimed in M'Allister. "Mon, I've been bothering over the very same thing ever
since we started, and wondering where yon little red star has gone to!"

"The question is very soon answered," I replied: "it is a case of 'the Spanish fleet you cannot
see because it's not in sight.' Mars does not rise above our late horizon until about a quarter-past
ten, and was therefore hidden by the earth whilst we were out on the platform; so we could
not expect to see it then, but if we look out now no doubt we shall see it."

We went over to a window, and I pointed out the planet, remarking, "There it is; that little
red star is the world which we hope to land upon in a few weeks' time. You will notice that
it does not lie quite in the direction in which we are moving, for I must tell you that we
are not on our course to Mars at present. I thought we should all be glad to have a look at
the moon from a close point of view now we have the chance, and M'Allister will remember that
I gave him instructions just before supper to direct our course so as to head off the moon
in its journey."

"Quite right, Professor, so you did," said M'Allister; "but I did not fully understand the
reason of your instructions."

"But," interrupted John, "are we not going rather out of our way?"

"Yes, that is so, John," I replied, "but a few thousand miles more or less will make very little
difference to us at the rate we shall travel, especially if you allow for the fact that the
earth and moon are both moving nearly in the direction we wish to go. Besides, I hope to approach
sufficiently near the moon to enable us to add a little more power to our store, so it will
not all be lost time; and we can also use the moon to give us a fresh start. But for the fact
that it would be best for us to reach the moon before it has waned to any large extent we might
have delayed our start for many days, and, whilst considerably shortening our journey, still
arrived at Mars on the date we have fixed."

Our chronometer was housed in a substantial non-magnetic cubicle, with a very thick glass window,
in order to protect it from the magnetism and electricity which pervaded our vessel. On looking
at the chronometer I found the time was nearly eleven o'clock. We had, therefore, been nearly
two hours on our journey and had travelled some three hundred miles, mostly in an upward direction
from the earth; so if there were any of the earth's atmosphere around our vessel it must be
of the most extreme tenuity, and we might safely increase our speed.

I accordingly gave M'Allister the order to switch on the power gradually, up to our full speed,
and it was not long before we were rushing through space at the rate of over eighty-three thousand
miles an hour. At this rate, as I told them, we might expect to reach the moon in a little
over sixteen hours, allowing for loss in slackening down at the latter part of the journey.

"It so happens," I said, "that the moon's present distance from the earth is rather less than
226,000 miles, being its nearest approach to the earth during this month."

John at once asked, "How it happened that, if the moon were only this comparatively short distance
away from us, I reckoned it would require over sixteen hours to reach it at the tremendous
speed we were now moving"; and added, "I thought we should be there in about three hours."

"Ah, John," I replied, "you have forgotten that the earth is rushing along and carrying the
moon with it nearly as fast as we are travelling, and you are reckoning as though they were
standing still all the time. As a matter of fact we are only gaining on the moon by a little
over fifteen thousand miles an hour, and we must allow for slackening speed long before we
reach the moon, so we cannot expect to cover the distance in less than sixteen hours. You will
see that if we did not travel faster than the moon is moving away from us we should never catch
it up at all!"

"That explains it all, Professor," said John, "and I must confess I felt rather puzzled at
the length of time required to reach the moon, so was altogether out in my calculations."

After we had been proceeding at this rate for nearly two hours, M'Allister came hurrying into
our compartment in a state of great excitement.

"Professor," he exclaimed with a gasp, "something's gone wrong altogether, and I don't know
what to do!"

"Gone wrong!" I repeated. "Why, what is the matter?"

"Mon," he answered, "everything is the matter! A while back we were rushing towards the moon,
but just now when I looked ahead there wasn't any moon to be seen. I happened to go round to
the other window and look back and, my word! if there wasn't the moon right behind us! We have
been travelling so very fast that we must have run past it without knowing we had done so."

"Oh, we could not possibly have done that!" I exclaimed.

"But there's more to come, Professor," continued M'Allister. "When I last saw the moon it was
nearly full and not so very much bigger than when we saw it at starting, but now this moon
behind us is an enormous thing; yet it is only a new moon, or rather what folks call a new
moon with the old moon in its arms!"

"Oh, now I understand," I replied. "It's all right, M'Allister, and you can make your mind
quite easy. You were not able to see the moon when you first looked through the window because
it was nearly in a direct line with your course, and therefore just hidden by the prow of the
vessel. It's still ahead of us and still nearly full: if you had looked out of the conning
tower or used the periscope you would have seen it."

"Heh, Professor," he interjected, "I know I couldn't see the moon if it was straight ahead
of our course, but then what about that enormous new moon that's behind us? I saw that right
enough."

"That enormous new moon, M'Allister, is only our own little world which we left a few hours
ago," I replied.

He stared at me as though bewildered, and after pondering a while, exclaimed, "Losh, mon, you
surely don't mean to say that our own little world changes about in the same way as the moon
does--sometimes new and sometimes full?"

Here John interposed. "Yes, M'Allister, you can take it from me that it is just what our world
does do. I think you are aware that, like the moon, our world simply reflects the light it
receives from the sun, and does not shine by its own light. So one side is light and the other
side is dark, according to its position in regard to the sun. From our present position we
are only able to see a small portion of the lighted side, the remainder being dark except for
the moonlight shining upon it, so it looks just like a large new moon. It really serves as
a moon to our moon, but its phases follow each other in reverse order. Thus, when the moon
is full, the earth's disc is all dark, and when the moon is in its first quarter the earth,
as seen from there, would be in its third quarter, and so on through all its phases. Do you
follow all that, M'Allister?"

"Well, mon," replied M'Allister, with a sly grin, "I've just heard you say it; but"--and here
he turned to me--"is it all correct, Professor?"

"Yes, quite correct," I answered, greatly amused at his distrust of John's statements.

"M'Allister, you're like the Apostle Thomas," commented John, evidently a little nettled; "so
you really doubted my word after all!"

"Heh, mon," he answered, "you're not the Professor, you know; and I thought maybe you were
pulling my leg!"

"Well," laughed John, "perhaps you will get your leg pulled the next time I condescend to give
you a lesson in astronomy!"

After this little spar between my two colleagues we proceeded to the machine-room, which John
and I carefully inspected, to make sure that all was working properly; and having satisfied
ourselves on this point, we gave M'Allister his instructions for the 'night'; though of course
there was no night now.

Mounting the steps of the conning turret, we then had a look at the earth, from which we were
so rapidly moving away. It appeared about fifteen degrees in angular diameter, showing that
we had travelled some thirty thousand miles from it.

The full moon, as seen from the earth, appears just about half a degree in diameter--sometimes
a little more, sometimes rather less; so the earth was apparently about thirty times the diameter
the moon usually appears to us. It was only a thin crescent where lighted by the sun, but well
might M'Allister describe it as "enormous," for it appeared still larger to him when he saw
it some thirty minutes earlier and mistook it for the new moon.

When we came down again John, very thoughtfully, said to me, "Professor, you have had a very
long, tiring day; and when we reach the moon, we shall probably stay up several hours to look
at it, so you had better take as long a sleep as possible. There will be no need to break your
rest, for I'm the younger, and will get about by six o'clock, and relieve M'Allister, who can
go on all right up to then, as he has three hours less work to his credit than we have to-day.
If your advice is needed, I will call you at once; but, no doubt, we shall do very well till
we arrive within a few thousand miles of the moon. We will slacken speed very gradually from
about two o'clock in the afternoon, so as not to approach the orb too rapidly."

I had, indeed, as he said, had a long, tiring day, having risen soon after four o'clock yesterday
morning, and it was now nearly 2 "A.M." by terrestrial time; so, thanking him for his kind
consideration, I bade them both "good night," and gladly proceeded to bed, John following soon
after.

He was as good as his word, and actually allowed me to sleep on until nearly half-past three
in the "afternoon," when he roused me, and, having dressed, I snatched a hasty meal and then
at once proceeded to the machine-room, where my first act was to look at the moon. There it
was below us, but still slightly ahead of the Areonal; and its magnificence was so overpowering,
that it almost seemed to take my breath away, although I was fairly well prepared for the sight.
Many times when viewing it through the telescope I have almost lost myself in admiration of
the sublime spectacle it presents; but what I had seen on those occasions could not be compared
with the splendour of the view now before us.

Here, without any atmosphere to dim or otherwise mar the view, the brilliancy of the lighted
portion of the disc was absolutely dazzling, whilst the extreme delicacy of its varied tints
and the subtle nuances of colour, which we now saw to perfection, were most charming and delightful
to any one endowed with artistic perceptions. We were only about four thousand miles from this
beautiful orb, its angular diameter measuring about thirty degrees, or nearly sixty times its
apparent diameter, as seen from the earth; thus it appeared to cover a very large circle on
the sky.

John and M'Allister told me they had both been gazing upon the splendid scene for a very long
time with astonishment and delight equal to my own; and the latter went on to say, "Professor,
did you ever see such a sight in your life? I never did, and could never have imagined that
anything could be so beautiful! Mon, it's worth many a journey like this to see such a bonnie
thing!"

"You are quite right in saying that, M'Allister," I answered; "it is, indeed, a grand and marvellous
sight! I can assure you that when I have been observing the moon in its full and glowing splendour,
it has often seemed to me the most exquisitely beautiful object I have ever looked upon; yet
now it appears far more beautiful than when seen through the telescope!"

CHAPTER IV

CLOSE TO THE MOON--I GIVE SOME INFORMATION ABOUT IT

We were now moving at a comparatively slow speed, yet the size of the moon's disc was very
rapidly expanding as we approached nearer and nearer to it. In the course of a little over
half-an-hour we were within ten miles of its surface, which now seemed to fill the whole space
below us; and its rotundity was most impressive. The shadows of the mountains and other elevated
portions near the terminator[4] were jet black, owing to the absence of an atmosphere; and,
seen contrasted with the brilliant lighting of the parts exposed to the full glare of the sun,
appeared almost like deep holes in the lunar surface.

John now remarked, "Professor, you are aware that I have only a rather vague general knowledge
of astronomy, although I take an interest in the subject, and that I know still less about
the dimensions and physical character of the moon and planets; so perhaps you will be good
enough to give us a little detailed information respecting this beautiful orb. Most of it will
be news to me, and probably it will all be fresh to M'Allister."

"Heh mon," the latter replied, "just put me among machinery and I'll tell you what's what,
but I never learned anything about astronomy, so will not pretend to any knowledge of it, but
now I should be very glad to hear what the Professor has to say about it."

"Well, friends," I replied, "it is not my wish to lecture you upon the subject, so I will merely
just run over a few of the bare facts.

"To begin with--the moon is very much smaller than the earth, its diameter being only 2160
miles, while the earth's diameter is 7918 miles. Being a smaller globe its mass is much more
loosely compacted than that of the earth, so, although it would take nearly fifty globes the
same as the moon to make one globe as large as the earth, it would require nearly eighty such
globes to make one as heavy as the earth.

"The moon's distance from the earth is generally given as being about 238,000 miles, but this
is its mean distance. When farthest away from our world its distance is about 260,000 miles,
but at its nearest it is less than 220,000 miles distant. This difference of course arises
from the eccentricity of the moon's orbit, and it explains why we sometimes see the moon a
trifle larger than it appears at other times. By this I mean that it really is seen larger,
because it is closer to us. But you have no doubt often noticed that when the moon is near
the horizon it seems to be very large indeed. This apparent increase of size is, however, an
illusion, owing to our unconsciously comparing it with the apparent size of terrestrial objects.

"The surface of the moon shows evidence of very violent volcanic action having occurred in
every part of it, and astronomers in the past were much puzzled to account for the excessive
volcanic energy which was indicated by what they saw, as such a small globe as the moon would
not, in the ordinary course of events, have ever possessed sufficient heat to have developed
such violent action. A theory of later years has, however, provided a reasonable explanation.
It is that the moon was at one time a part of the same mass as the earth, which became separated
from it before the earth had quite cooled down and solidified into its present form, and was
then gradually driven farther and farther away from the earth by natural forces. It was therefore
originally as hot as the rest of the mass which formed the earth, but being formed into a smaller
globe of much less gravity--only one-sixth of that of the earth--volcanic action of the same
intensity as that on the earth would have a much more far-reaching effect. A force which on
the earth would project volcanic lava and scoriæ a distance of three miles would, on the moon,
project it a distance of eighteen miles. This accounts for the very high mountains we see on
the moon, some of which are comparatively, for the size of the globe, much higher than those
on the earth. It also accounts for the vast size of the lunar craters, ring-plains, and ring-mountains.

"These latter are formations quite unknown upon our earth, but on the moon they are numbered
by hundreds of all sizes, from a few miles up to one hundred and fifty miles in diameter. They
are large plains, roughly circular in shape, and surrounded by mountains; in a few cases the
ring is in some parts a double range of mountains. Sometimes the plain (or 'floor,' as it is
termed) is many thousands of feet below the general level of the lunar surface; in a few cases
it is raised considerably above it, and in one or two instances, instead of being flat, the
floor is convex. Some of the mountain rings are comparatively low, but in other cases the mountains
are fifteen to twenty thousand feet in height, or even higher. Frequently a mountain rises
near the centre of the floor, some rings containing more than one such mountain, whilst others
have none at all.

"There are numerous instances where one mountain ring has overlapped or cut into another, thus
indicating that it was a later formation; and in many cases the mountains are 'terraced,'[5]
as it is termed, either owing to a series of landslips or to the rise and fall of a sea of
lava, which cooled as it sank down, thus forming terraces. Small craters abound all over the
surface of the moon and on the floors of the rings; cracks in the lunar surface are also numerous.

"As regards the lunar mountains, it may truly be said that we have a fairly accurate knowledge
of peaks and mountains which would either be too precipitous to be climbed, or quite inaccessible
to us, if we could actually land upon the moon; and the whole visible surface has been more
carefully and thoroughly mapped out and studied than is the case with many parts of our own earth.

"If the moon has any atmosphere it must be so very attenuated indeed that human beings could
not possibly live in it at all; but nothing has yet been detected which would enable us to
say positively that any atmosphere does exist there, although there have been some indications
observed which support the supposition that there may be an extremely thin air.

"Nor does it appear possible that there is any water upon its surface at the present; in fact,
many astronomers are of opinion that the moon never did have any water upon it. Personally,
from a study of many of the formations as seen through the telescope, it seems to me quite
impossible that they could owe their existence in their present state to anything but the action
of water. They present much the same appearance as formations on our own earth which we know
have been fashioned by that means. There is no water upon the moon now, I think, though several
large depressions are still called oceans, seas, lakes, or marshes, because at one time they
were believed to be such. Probably in some of those places, if not in all, water existed millions
of years ago; but ages since they must have lost it either by evaporation or by absorption
into the soil.

"I will not say any more just now, but as we pass above the lunar surface I will point out
a few of the natural features that may be of interest to you."

M'Allister here paid me the compliment of saying, "Well, Professor, I always thought astronomy
was a very dry and difficult subject; but your remarks were really very interesting, and quite
easy to understand. There is only one thing that seemed to me rather strange as coming from
a scientific man, and I would like you to explain that."

"Certainly; if there is anything you do not quite understand, you have only to ask and I will
try to clear the matter up," I answered. "What is it you wish to know?"

"Well," he answered, "I noticed that when you were speaking about the distance of the moon
you always said it was about so far away. Why didn't you tell us the exact distance? I'm not
a scientific man by any means, but if any one were to ask me the length of a connecting rod
on one of my machines I should say '25 inches,' not 'about 25 inches,' for that would not do
for a practical man!"

"It's like this, M'Allister," I said. "You measure things with a two-foot rule, which is something
you can actually handle, and you know it is made according to a standard measure and must contain
exactly 24 inches. If, however, your rule was 24-1/4 inches long, yet still divided into twenty-four
equal parts, you could measure work with it just the same, but would know that every measurement
was just a little bit out. If you had no possible means of obtaining another rule, you would
have to put up with a little inexactitude.

"That is just the position in which astronomers are placed; they have to put up with a measure
which they know is not perfectly accurate, yet it is the best which can be secured.

"Their two-foot rule, so to speak, may be the distance from the earth to the sun, or the length
of the whole diameter of the earth's orbit, and these cannot be handled like your rule; and
although we know the measurements of these are nearly correct, they are not quite so. Yet the
distances of the moon, planets, stars, &c., have to be measured by these rules, so it is clear
we can only know those distances with a near approximation to accuracy.

"For this reason astronomers are always trying different means of ascertaining the sun's exact
distance from the earth in order to obtain a perfectly correct measure; but there are so many
difficulties and complications which affect the result, that it will be a long time yet before
they succeed in their work.

"You will therefore understand that all these figures as to distances and dimensions of planets
and stars are only as near approaches to correctness as is possible to attain in our present
circumstances. They must not be regarded as literally exact, although they are usually sufficiently
accurate for all general purposes. Astronomers know this and allow for it; but general readers
of books, when they find figures which do not agree with others they have seen, are apt to
regard them as all being mere guesses, and in this they are doing an injustice to the painstaking
labours of generations of astronomers and mathematicians.

"I shall presently be mentioning the heights of mountains, the size of ring-plains, craters,
&c., but the same reasoning applies to them; the dimensions given are averages of measurements
made by different observers, and, though not quite accurate, are as near the truth as the difficult
conditions under which they have to be measured will allow."

"Thank you, Professor," said M'Allister as I concluded. "I'm glad I don't have to work with
such rules as those you mention, for measurements a little bit out of correctness would ruin
any machine in the world."

"Still, M'Allister," I said, "you would have the advantage over astronomers with your two-foot
rule, because you would know that it was a quarter of an inch too long. Their difficulty is
that they do not know exactly how much their rule is out of correctness, so cannot obtain absolute
accuracy however they may try."

We now set the machines going very slowly and moved toward the northern part of the moon, where
I pointed out the position of the lunar north pole, and explained that, owing to the very slight
inclination of the lunar axis, there can be but very little variation of seasons in any one
particular part of the moon. Thus, if at one place it were spring, it would practically always
be spring there, but with very cold nights all through the lunar year. Where it was summer
it would practically always be summer, also with very cold nights, and so on.

I further explained that, as the moon revolves on its axis in the same time that it takes to
make one revolution round the earth, those on the earth always see the same side of the moon,
except when occasionally, owing to inequalities in the lunar motions, they are afforded a peep
just round portions of the edges at different periods. The remainder of the other side of the
moon has never yet been seen from the earth by human eyes, and in all probability never will
be seen for millions of years to come.

John, who as usual was smoking like a factory chimney, here removed his pipe from his mouth
and said, "Professor, you stated just now that the nights on the moon would always be intensely
cold, and I should like to know whether there is any really reliable information respecting
the temperature of the lunar days and nights. I have seen so many contradictory theories on
the subject that I scarcely know what to believe."

"In that respect," I answered, "I fear that my position is much the same as yours, for I have
absolutely no certain knowledge on the point, but will just state shortly how the matter stands
at present.

"During the past century many investigations have been made by scientific men respecting the
temperatures on the moon, and their results have differed to an amazing extent. It would take
too long, and be too wearisome, to quote all the authorities, so a few must suffice. Lord Rosse,
who used a thermopile in his experiments, found that in order to produce the results he obtained,
the sunlit surface of the moon must be heated to a temperature of 500 degrees on Fahrenheit's
scale. Sir John Herschel had previously concluded that the temperature must be much greater
than that of boiling water. On the other hand Ericsson and, more recently, Professor Langley--who
used a bolometer of his own invention for measuring the heat of the sun's invisible rays--came
to the conclusion that even under continued sunshine the temperature would rarely, if ever,
rise above the freezing point of water.

"Professor Very, however, who has continued the delicate experiments with the bolometer, and
also made other experiments and calculations of quite recent date, has obtained results more
nearly in accordance with those first quoted, for he found that near the end of the second
week's sunshine on the moon the temperature of the rocks, soil, &c., must rise to at least
80 degrees Centigrade above the heat of boiling water."

"My word!" said M'Allister, "that's hotter than a ship's engine-room, and I shouldn't care
for such a very high temperature."

"As this is so recent," I proceeded, "and the work of one of our highest authorities, I think
we must accept it as being more correct, especially as Professor Very has taken into consideration
some factors which had not previously been allowed due weight.

"In connection with this matter of temperature it is necessary to remember that the days and
nights upon the moon are both very long, for the full lunar 'day' is equal to a month, so the
actual lunar day is equal to fourteen of our days, and the lunar night is of the same duration.
Our 'day' of twenty-four hours is divided into day and night in unequal proportions, according
to the changes in the seasons; but, as I before remarked, the seasonal changes on the moon
are very slight, so the variations in the lengths of the days and nights are very small.

"But, whatever may be the difference of opinion as to the heat of the lunar day, there seems
to be a pretty general agreement that, owing to the absence of an atmosphere, the nights must
be so intensely cold as to be almost beyond our conception--probably approaching nearly to
the absolute zero of outer space. Even with an atmosphere the long nights in our polar regions
are so cold that only very strong people can endure them, notwithstanding every device for
obtaining warmth.

"You will gather from this that although the moon appears so beautiful from a distance, it
must be anything but a desirable place of residence even from a climatic point of view, for
we should practically be fried at midday, while at midnight--or even in the daytime when out
of the direct rays of the sun--we should soon be frozen stiff."

As I said this John chimed in with: "Professor, all things considered, I think I could smoke
my pipe more comfortably upon the earth than upon the moon. I really don't like such extremes
of temperature."

"I am of the same mind," I replied, "and it is because I prefer a more equable temperature
that I have carefully kept our martalium blinds drawn over those windows of our vessel upon
which the sun is shining."

CHAPTER V

WE VIEW THE LUNAR SCENERY IN THE NORTHERN HEMISPHERE

"Now, Professor," exclaimed M'Allister, jumping up with a shrug of the shoulders, "you've given
our friend John a considerable amount of information on a wee bit dry subject, so, mayhap,
you will now give us something more interesting, and go on with the description of the natural
features of the moon down yonder."

"Yes do, please, Professor," said John; "M'Allister's own temperature is evidently rising rapidly.
Strange, isn't it, that a douche of cold facts should make our friend so warm!"

"Well, not altogether," I replied laughingly; "there should always be a healthy reaction after
a cold douche. Much depends on the intensity of the cold applied, and you know that if you
touch extremely cold metal it burns you like hot iron!"

"Professor," chimed in M'Allister, "maybe I was a bit warm, but really your facts were not
so cold as to make me hot."

"I'm glad to hear you say so," I answered.

"At all events, Professor," continued John, "whatever may be M'Allister's actual temperature,
I'm simply burning to know something about that very striking formation with the steel-grey
coloured flooring which is situated not very far down from the North Pole, and a little to
the east of the central meridian."

"That," I said, "is a large walled plain called Plato, and, being on a receding curve of the
moon, it is seen from the earth foreshortened, so that it appears to be elliptical in shape.
It is about sixty miles in diameter, and encloses an area of 2700 square miles, which is just
about the area of Lincolnshire. The general height of the mountain walls is over 3600 feet;
one mountain on the east is nearly 7500 feet high, and others on the north and west are but
little lower.

"You will notice that there are several breaks in the walls, and a large one on the south-west;
whilst on the inner slope of the mountains you can see where a great landslide has occurred.

"It is rather singular, John, that in your first selection you have chosen a formation which
is one of the lunar mysteries!"

"Ah! Professor," said John, smiling, "I always was lucky! What is this dreadful mystery?" he
asked, with an assumed expression of awe.

"Oh, it's not a ghost story, John, nor anything to make your flesh creep," I said rather grimly.
"Usually the floor of a walled plain becomes brighter as the sun rises higher and higher in
the sky, but Plato actually becomes darker under a high sun. By some it has been thought that
this is merely the effect of contrast with the very bright surroundings of this formation,
and that there is no actual darkening of the tint. This is certainly not the case, for I have
examined it carefully myself with the telescope--shutting out all the bright surroundings from
the field of view, but the floor still appeared equally dark.

"Others have suggested that the hot sun causes the growth of some kind of vegetation all over
the plain, the ripening of which makes the floor darker in tint. As regards this suggestion,
it is the fact that upon Mars the old sea-beds are the places where vegetation is most luxuriant
at the present time; so, if Plato were at one time an enclosed sea, it might not be impossible
that vegetation in some low form might grow and be nourished by the crude gaseous remains of
a former atmosphere. A greenish tint has occasionally been noticed by some observers, also
several light streaks across the floor, as well as several small craterlets, which have been
duly noted on the maps.

"But before we go any further we will have a better means of seeing, for it is rather uncomfortable
looking directly down upon the moon. So, John, just lend a hand and we'll fetch one of those
large mirrors."

This was done, and the mirror suspended with the upper part projecting forward, so that when
adjusted at the proper angle we could sit and look straight into the mirror before us and see
the reflection of all that was below. We could still look down at the objects, if we wished
to do so, without shifting our position.

"There, John," I remarked, as we completed this arrangement, "I have already arranged mirrors
in the proper positions at the windows in the forepart of the vessel, so that in future M'Allister
will be able to see what is nearly straight ahead of him. Now you will understand that I had
a scientific use for the mirrors I provided, and did not require them merely to admire my beautiful
face in as you suggested."

John laughed as I recalled his suggestion, saying, "All right, Professor, I know you generally
have a good reason for what you do."

Now, being more comfortably seated, I drew their attention to some small isolated mountains
on the area to the south of Plato, pointing out Pico, an isolated mountain over 8000 feet in
height, and another with three peaks not very far from it. To the north-east of these, some
distance away, are the Teneriffe and Straight Ranges; also isolated groups.

"You will remember," I remarked, "that I said there were several formations which seemed to
me to owe their present appearance to the action of water. Now look well at all this district
before us--does it not seem to bear out my contention? Those numerous small mountains and isolated
groups were not, I think, originally isolated, but connected with the adjoining ranges. If
we assume that Plato was once an enclosed sea, or lake, which burst through the mountain walls--possibly
owing to their being weakened or broken by volcanic action--there would have been a tremendous
outrush of water, which must have carried away a good deal of the softer material of these
hills and mountains; whilst, in after years, the continual wash of the waters, combined with
aerial denudation, would gradually have worn away all but the hardest parts of these formations.

"Most probably the whole of the surrounding area was also at some time a sea, though volcanic
action has since altered its surface conformation, and in places it bears evidence of having
been covered with lava. It is not unusual on our world for volcanoes to burst up from under
the sea, so even the evidence of volcanic action does not, as some seem to think, negative
the possibility of water ever existing here; and it may not be inappropriate to point out that
our hydrographers have proved that our ocean-beds are not always smooth, but are often diversified
by high hills and deep valleys."

M'Allister here interjected: "Professor, would you kindly tell us something about that fine
range of mountains over yonder, just to the right hand?"

"Oh yes," I replied; "I was just about to mention that mountain range, which is called the
Alps after those in Switzerland; and that peak on the front portion, just south of the great
valley you see, is named Mont Blanc, and is about 12,000 feet in height.

"You will notice a very large number of peaks in this and the other neighbouring ranges--in
fact, several thousands have been marked on our large maps.

"Cutting diagonally in a north-westerly direction, completely through the Alps, you will notice
a long and deep valley. This is known as the 'Great Alpine Valley,' and is over eighty miles
long, and varies from about three miles to six and a half miles in width. At the eastern end
it is some 11,000 feet deep, debouching on to the plain in several comparatively narrow passes,
whilst at its north-western extremity it is very shallow, and emerges on to what is known as
the Sea of Cold, which covers an area of about 100,000 square miles. This valley seems to afford
another example of formation by the action of water.

"Amongst the three thousand peaks comprised in the Apennine range just below the Alps, are
several mountains of considerable altitude," I remarked, pointing out Mount Huygens, nearly
20,000 feet high, Mount Hadley, 15,000 feet, and Mount Woolf, 12,000 feet in height. "This
range curves round towards the east, and finishes with a fine ring-plain called Eratosthenes--some
thirty-seven miles in diameter, with a floor depressed 8000 feet below the lunar surface. It
encloses a central mountain, and on the east wall there is one peak which rises 16,000 feet
above the floor.

"The ranges in this part of the moon are, perhaps, more like those on our earth than others
to be found on its surface, but much more wild and rugged.

"Eastward and northward of these ranges is the Sea of Showers, on which there are several fine
ring-mountains and walled plains--notably Autolychus and Aristillus, two very perfect ring-mountains
some 9000 feet high.

"One of the most striking, on account of its size and situation, is that large one which is
called Archimedes, and is about fifty miles in diameter; and you will notice that a rugged
mass of mountains and high hills extends from it to a distance of over a hundred miles on the
south. The floor of this walled plain is only about 600 feet below the general level, and the
mountain walls average about 4000 feet in height; but there is at least one peak some 7000
feet high.

"You will see a little below and westward of Archimedes the commencement of a system of large
cracks or crevasses in the lunar surface which are known as 'rills.' Many such systems are
found in various parts of the moon; some of the cracks are comparatively shallow, but, according
to Professor Langley, others are known to be at least eight miles deep, and may be infinitely
deeper, though I cannot say I understand how these great depths have been arrived at. The length
of the cracks varies from a few miles to over three hundred miles, and from a few hundred yards
to some miles in width. They are attributed partly to volcanic action, but mainly to the contraction
of the crust of the lunar globe as it became cold. Being so much smaller, the moon would cool
much more rapidly than the earth, and the disruptive effects would necessarily be greater."

John here touched my arm, and pointing to some mountains on the borders of a large elongated
oval area, close to the north-western terminator where the sun was setting, asked me what they
were. I explained that the dark area was known as the Mare Crisium, or Sea of Conflicts, and
is possibly the deepest of the large lunar depressions.

"It is about 280 miles long from north to south, and 355 miles wide from east to west, but,
owing to its position, the width is seen from the earth very much foreshortened, so that it
really looks nearly twice as long as it is wide. It contains an area of about 75,000 square
miles, thus being as large as the combined area of Scotland and Ireland, and the five largest
northern counties of England. It is surrounded by mountains, some being over 11,000 feet high,
reckoning from the dark floor."

I drew their attention to Proclus--a ring-mountain on the eastern side of this sea--which is
about eighteen miles in diameter, and the second brightest of the lunar formations. "From its
neighbourhood several bright streaks diverge in different directions, two extending a long
way across the dark area, and there is a longer one striking towards the north and another
towards the south at an angle of about 120 degrees with each other.

"Seen through the telescope, these ray-streaks often appear very brilliant under a high sun,
looking in fact very like electric search-lights; though I notice that the Rev. T.W. Webb has
rather curiously remarked that these particular streaks are not very easily seen. Similar ray-streaks,
many enormously longer than these, are found in various parts of the lunar surface, but their
exact nature and origin has never yet been definitely settled. They only come into view when
the sun is beginning to be high up in the lunar sky, and the higher the sun, the brighter the
rays appear. Some of the shorter ones are ridges, but this is evidently not the case with the
others, for they cast no shadows, as ridges would when the sun is low. Very many radiate from
a large ring-mountain called Tycho, in the southern hemisphere; and one of them extends, with
some breaks, nearly three thousand miles, passing northward over the Sea of Serenity and finally
disappearing on the moon's north-western edge, or 'limb,' as it is termed.

"Professor Pickering assumes that these rays were caused by volcanic dust or other light reflecting
material emitted from a series of small craters, and states that they are really made up of
a series of short rays placed or joined end to end. What I have observed myself seems to bear
out this latter statement; but the opinion I have formed as to their origin differs from the
theory of Professor Pickering. It seems to me more probable that the volcanic dust was carried
by a strong wind, split up into two or more separate currents by a succession of peaks. The
wind currents swept clean the area over which they actually passed, but dust fell or drifted
in the lines between the currents. Exactly the same thing may be observed in connection with
snow-storms on our earth when accompanied by a high wind. One part of the earth's surface will
be swept clean by the wind current, whilst a long line of the adjoining surface is covered
with a thick deposit of snow. I have also noticed that where the ray-streaks impinge upon a
mountain, or ring, there is an appearance of spreading out and heaping up of the bright material
very much as snow would be spread out or drifted up in similar situations on the earth."

M'Allister here interrupted with the remark that, when we were approaching the moon, he had
particularly noticed that all appearance of the face of the "man in the moon" had vanished.
He said he had expected to see that more distinctly as we got nearer.

"That would not be the case, M'Allister," I answered. "The resemblance to a human face which
we see from the earth is caused by the combined effect of the bright and dusky areas on the
lunar surface as seen from a distance. The depressed dark areas, which we call seas, form the
eyes, nose, and mouth of the face, but when we had approached nearer to the moon the details
of the surface configuration stood out so much more distinctly that they entirely obliterated
the general effect of the markings as seen from a distance."

"Professor," exclaimed John, "I have read that before telescopes were invented it was thought
by many that the markings seen on the moon were really the features of our own earth reflected
by the moon as in a mirror. Is that correct?"

"Oh yes, John," I said. "It seems to have been a fairly general belief in many parts of the
world, and travellers tell us that, even within very recent times, they have found in some
of the more out-of-the-way parts of the world that the same idea is still held by uneducated
people!"

Objects of interest being so numerous on the lunar surface we could only give a comprehensive
glance at many of them, and as we had so many places to inspect, I now gave M'Allister the
order to steer eastward.

He accordingly moved his switches and the Areonal quickly passed over the Sea of Tranquillity,
which has an area of 140,000 square miles; then over the Sea of Vapours, a smaller area, parts
of which have a dusky green tint, from whence to the northward we had a view over the Sea of
Serenity, another deep depression nearly as large as the Sea of Tranquillity, and much of which
is a light green colour.

Then we came again to the Sea of Showers, a large "sea" having an area of 340,000 square miles;
and, still moving eastward, the great lunar "Ocean of Storms" soon came into view. This covers
a very large portion of the eastern and north-eastern part of the moon's surface, and, with
all its bays and indentations, is estimated to be two million square miles in extent.

I, however, again reminded them that, although these areas are termed seas and oceans, no water
exists there now, whatever may have been the case in the long distant past. They are now only
large depressions, and not often level but intersected by hills, ridges, and even mountains.

As we passed along I called their particular attention to the magnificent "Bay of Rainbows"
on the north-eastern coast of the Sea of Showers. "From Cape Laplace (9000 feet high) on the
western extremity, to Cape Heraclides (4000 feet high) on the eastern extremity, this great
bay is about 140 miles across, the depth of its curvature being over eighty miles. It bears
a very strong resemblance to many large bays on our sea-coasts in various parts of the world,
but I am not aware of any such bay which is bordered by a mass of such lofty mountains as this is.

"We are looking at it now under a high sun, but when the sun has only just risen sufficiently
high to illuminate all those high mountains, whilst the lower surroundings are still in shadow,
the great bay presents in the telescope the appearance of a brilliant luminous arch springing
from the lighted part of the moon and extending far out over the dark part of the disc.

"Farther eastward, and lower down on the Ocean of Storms, you will observe what is admitted
by all to be the very brightest large formation upon the moon, viz. Aristarchus--a ring-plain
nearly thirty miles in diameter, the floor of which is 5000 feet below the surface level. It
possesses a central mountain, very difficult to measure on account of the general brightness,
but believed to be about 1300 feet high. Well-defined terraces are seen on the mountain walls
enclosing the area, and many external ridges are connected with the walls, especially to the
south. This formation is evidently covered with some substance which reflects light to a greater
extent than that on similar formations; indeed it appears so bright that when the moon is new
and the whole of this part of the disc is dark, Aristarchus can still be seen with a telescope,
and this gave rise in the past to the idea that it was a volcano in actual eruption. The explanation
is, however, more prosaic, because the mountain is really brought into view by earthshine on
its bright covering. When the moon is new the earth is almost fully lighted on the side toward
the moon, and sheds a faint light on the dark portion of its disc, thus producing the phenomenon
known as 'the old moon in the new moon's arms.'

"Close to Aristarchus you will notice another ring-plain, which is called Herodotus, about
twenty-three miles in diameter, with a floor 7000 feet depressed; but this formation is not
nearly so bright as its neighbour. That high plateau between them is notable on account of
the T-shaped cleft in it, which runs into that other long zig-zag cleft (in some parts two
miles wide and 1600 feet in depth), whose direction changes abruptly several times in its length
of over one hundred miles.

"Turning from this towards the south-west you will see the most majestic formation to be found
upon the moon--the great ring-plain called 'Copernicus,' after the founder of our present system
of astronomy. It is about sixty miles in diameter, only roughly circular in shape, and as it
stands isolated upon the great ocean-bed it is most favourably situated for observation. A
large number of very high ridges, separated by deep valleys, radiate from it in all directions
to a distance of hundreds of miles, presenting the appearance of a grand system of buttresses
to the mountain walls. These walls are high, and contain a very large number of peaks which,
when seen through the telescope as they catch the sunlight, look like a string of bright pearls
shining on the border of the ring. A peak on one side is 12,000 feet in altitude, on the other
side is one only 1000 feet lower, whilst, rising from near the central part of the floor, are
no less than five small mountain peaks. Owing to its size, brightness, and isolated position,
this splendid ring-mountain can be seen from the earth without the aid of a glass; but even
a field-glass will reveal much in this and similar formations which cannot be detected by the
unaided eye.

"The Rev. T.W. Webb has termed Tycho, in the southern hemisphere, 'the Metropolitan Crater
of the Moon,' but, in my opinion, Copernicus is, owing to its position and grandeur, much more
worthy of that dignity. Tycho is fine in itself, but is not so favourably situated, being surrounded
by other formations somewhat in the same way as St. Paul's Cathedral is surrounded and shut
in, for the most part, by other and meaner buildings.

"How much more should we appreciate the splendid proportions and majesty of our Metropolitan
Cathedral if we could view it as an isolated building with a fine open space all around it!"

"I quite agree with that, Professor," remarked John, "and I have always thought it a great
pity that Sir Christopher Wren was not allowed to carry out his original plan in this respect."

We were looking at the Carpathian range of mountains just to the northward of Copernicus, when
M'Allister touched my arm, exclaiming, "Look, Professor, at all those tiny craters near the
western side of Copernicus. Why, there are so many of them that the ground for miles round
looks like a honeycomb, and in some places there are straight rows of them!"

"Yes," I said, "this part of the lunar surface is simply riddled with tiny craterlets, and
some of them are utilised as tests for the definition of our telescopes. I have heard it remarked
that a map of this part of the moon presents almost the appearance of the froth on a glass
of stout when it has settled down, the very numerous tiny air-bubbles of different sizes representing
the craterlets; and really it does bear such a resemblance.

"Almost due east of Copernicus is another bright and isolated ring-plain named Kepler, after
the celebrated astronomer. This is some twenty-two miles in diameter and surrounded by very
bright streaks of light, extending in some directions over seventy miles, the whole nimbus
of light covering an area of nearly ten thousand square miles. These really are streaks, not
ridges, for, as you will see, nearly all the surface surrounding this formation is flat and level.

"Some of the streaks from Kepler radiate in the direction of Aristarchus, others towards Copernicus,
cutting right through the rays from those formations. From this it is gathered that Copernicus
was formed first, then Aristarchus, and Kepler still later on in the moon's history.

"The surrounding wall of Kepler is comparatively low with respect to the lunar surface level,
but the depth of the crater is nearly ten thousand feet below the mountain peaks. The whole
formation is covered with the same light-reflecting material as the streaks which surround it."

CHAPTER VI

THE SCENERY OF THE MOON'S SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE

I now directed M'Allister to steer across the lunar equator into the southern hemisphere, and
our attention was soon attracted by a very large walled plain on the eastward side of our course.

John asked me what it was called, and I explained that it was named Grimaldi, being also well
known to observers as the darkest tinted of all the large lunar formations. As seen from the
earth it appears a narrow ellipse, but we could see its full width, which is 129 miles, the
length being 148 miles. It is also noteworthy as one of the few plains which are convex in
section, and it is so large that its area is equal to the combined area of the whole of the
counties of England south of the line of the Thames, including Cornwall.

I showed M'Allister this formation on our map, where it appears only a narrow ellipse in consequence
of the moon's curvature, and pointed out how very different was its appearance now we could
see over its whole extent. Other formations nearer to the moon's limb appear still more foreshortened
when viewed from the earth.

John here remarked that "these large ring-plains covered immense areas, and, now that we could
actually see them, their magnitude was more impressive than anything we could have imagined
from merely hearing or reading about them."

"Yes, John," I said, "from our altitude of more than ten miles above the lunar surface we command
a much more extensive view and gain a better knowledge of details than we could obtain even
if we landed on the moon. For instance, if we could stand down in the centre of one of those
very large rings, we should imagine we were in the midst of a boundless open plain. The mountains
all around us would be so distant that, owing to the sharp curvature of the lunar sphere, they
would all be below the horizon, notwithstanding the fact that many of them are several thousands
of feet in height. So, for all we could see of them, those mountains might be non-existent.

"In the case of somewhat smaller rings we might perhaps see, here and there above the horizon,
just the topmost peaks of some of the more lofty mountains."

M'Allister was now struck with an idea, and exclaimed, "Professor, I notice that many of these
great walled plains are very flat, and I should think they would make fine golf-links, for
there would be plenty of room to send the ball flying!"

"Undoubtedly," I answered, "you would have plenty of space for that; and I can tell you that
you would be able to send the ball flying six times as far as you could on the earth with the
same expenditure of force, because the moon's gravitation is only one-sixth of that of the earth."

"That would be grand," said M'Allister. "I should like to have a few turns at golf on the moon."

"Ah, but you would also have extra long tramps after your ball," I told him, "so you would
get plenty of exercise; but, for the reason already mentioned, you would be able to get over
the ground six times as easily."

"Well, Professor, I should not mind the distance in those circumstances," he answered jauntily.

"Perhaps you like jumping exercise too," I said. "Only fancy, M'Allister, if you wanted to
jump across one of those narrower cracks! Why, if you could jump a distance of ten feet on
the earth, you could jump sixty feet on the moon just as easily! Some of our athletes have
jumped a length of twenty-six feet, so the same persons could with equal ease jump 156 feet
on the moon! What do you think of that for a long jump?"

"Heh, Professor," he replied, looking rather bewildered, "what a jump! Why, I should think
the mon was never coming down again!"

"I say, though, M'Allister, after all I am inclined to think you would not find golf on the
moon altogether a pleasant game," said John.

"Why not, mon?" inquired M'Allister.

"Well," answered John, "I was thinking that if you sent your ball flying into one of those
cracks which are several miles deep you would find yourself eternally 'bunkered,' for no niblick
ever made would get you out of that."

M'Allister laughed so heartily at this idea of John's that we both joined in his mirth; then
I recommended him to wait until we reached Mars if he wished to enjoy a game of golf, for there
he would be sure to find enormous stretches of level ground.

Proceeding on our tour of inspection, we crossed the Ocean of Storms to a point near the central
part of the lunar surface, and I showed them the fine walled plain called Ptolemæus. This is
115 miles in diameter, and contains an area as large as the combined areas of Yorkshire, Lancashire,
and Westmorland, its highest peak being 9000 feet in altitude. It forms the most northerly
of a line of walled plains, the most southerly being Arzachel, which is sixty-six miles in
diameter, and has a very depressed floor; while one peak on the walls rises to a height of
13,000 feet.

Passing farther west, we next examined another splendid group of three ring-mountains, arranged
in a line running nearly north and south, viz. Theophilus, Cyrillus, and Catherina. The first
is the most northerly, and is about sixty-four miles in diameter, with several very high peaks--one
rising as much as 18,000 feet, and two on the opposite side being 16,000 and 14,000 feet high
respectively. Even the central mountain is very large in area, and 6000 feet high. "That,"
I remarked to M'Allister, "is nearly half as high again as Ben Nevis, the highest mountain
in Scotland, which is, after all, only 4400 feet high."

"Ben Nevis, Professor, is 4406 feet high!" corrected M'Allister.

"That's right, M'Allister," said John, clapping him on the back, "stick up for bonnie Scotland,
and don't let her be robbed of that six feet of mountain!"

Proceeding, I then said that Cyrillus, the middle ring, was, as they could see, very irregular
in shape; and the walls were in some parts very much broken and damaged.

Catherina is the largest of the three, being over seventy miles in diameter, and its highest
peak is 16,500 feet in altitude.

I should have liked to have shown them the splendid double-walled plain called Petavius, which
has a convex floor some 800 feet higher in the centre than at the edges. We were, however,
too late both for that and Langrenus, another fine formation on the same meridian, for the
sun had set upon them and they were in darkness, so it was no use going any farther in that
direction.

We now directed our course over the Sea of Clouds till we arrived at what is known as the "Straight
Wall."

"M'Allister," I said, "that ought to interest you, for there is a somewhat similar formation
in Scotland. You see this is an escarpment, or cliff, over sixty miles long, and varying from
about 600 feet to 900 feet in height.

"This cliff is one of the best known examples on the moon of what in geology is termed a 'fault,'
indicating either that one part of the general surface has been greatly elevated, or that the
adjoining part has been depressed. We have many examples of such 'faults' on the earth--for
instance, one runs a long way across Scotland, from Stonehaven round to Helensburgh, between
the Highlands and the Lowlands, and is about 120 miles in length. That is about twice the length
of the Straight Wall; so you see that Scotland can beat the moon in that respect!"

This brought M'Allister up to the scratch. "Scotland," he exclaimed excitedly, "can hold her
own in most things! Why, mon, the empire is indebted to her for the finest statesmen, the cleverest
lawyers, the best engineers and scientists, and, allow me to say, the bravest soldiers in the
whole world! Scotsmen go everywhere, and can do anything!"

"Oh yes, M'Allister," said John, with a laugh, "and a Scotsman has got to the moon! but, please,
do not forget that two Englishmen planned the trip, and devised the means of accomplishing
the journey!"

M'Allister smiled a rather wintry smile, and then subsided. John was a bit too smart for him
that time.

Passing on, we inspected the large cleft running parallel to the Straight Wall, and the small
mountain close by named after Birt, the well-known selenographer. We then crossed the Sea of
Clouds again, and had a long look at the great system of straight clefts near Campanus and
Hippalus, together with the fine walled plain Gassendi, the floor of which is at some parts
2000 feet above the lunar surface. I had often studied this through the telescope, as it is
a most interesting formation.

"Well, Professor," remarked M'Allister, "I have travelled nearly all over our own world, but
in all my journeyings I have never seen such wild and rugged scenery as I have during the few
hours we have been passing over the moon. The mountains seem to be split and rent in all directions,
especially where there are volcanic craters in the neighbourhood--and, really, they seem to
be everywhere; while landslips are very numerous, and the mountain passes are extremely rugged
and gloomy."

"Yes," I replied, "my telescopic observations had prepared me for a great deal, but the weird
ruggedness of the lunar scenery exceeds all my anticipations."

"What is the explanation of it all?" M'Allister inquired.

"I should think, M'Allister, that much of it was originally caused by the extreme violence
of volcanic outbursts," I answered; "but the excessive expansion and contraction, resulting
from the alternate spells of intense heat and intense cold to which the moon is continually
exposed, will account for the formation of many of those tremendous chasms and precipices which
we see everywhere around us, as well as for the huge mounds of dislodged rocks and débris,
which are piled up in such chaotic confusion on the ledges of the mountains and round their bases.

"On the earth such débris would very soon have become smoothed by atmospheric erosion, the
interstices would have been filled up with dust and soil, while the growth of vegetation would
have added a new charm to the effect.

"You have seen the great landslip in the Isle of Wight! When it fell all was wild desolation,
but it has become covered with such a luxuriant growth of vegetation that it now presents a
scene of beauty.

"On the moon, however, there is neither atmosphere, rain, nor moisture to produce weathering
of the rocks or to encourage the growth of vegetation; so the rocks remain just as sharp, rugged,
and bare as they were ages ago when they were first split off from the mountains.

"No doubt very large masses of rocks are still frequently being dislodged, and if we could
see them falling from the upper part of a mountain, rebounding along the spurs, with fragments
flying in all directions and ultimately dashing to pieces at the base, it would seem to us
most uncanny not to hear the slightest sound arising from all this apparent commotion. Without
an atmosphere, however, no sound could be produced, no matter how many thousands of tons of
rock might fall to the ground.

"Tremendous changes of this nature may be happening on the moon, but our telescopes are not
powerful enough to enable us to see the results. They would have to cover an area of miles
to be noticeable, unless they presented some particularly striking configuration."

"Professor," exclaimed M'Allister, "how is it that all the shadows on the moon are such a dense
black and so sharply defined at the edges?"

"That," I exclaimed, "is entirely owing to the absence of the atmosphere. On the earth, even
at night time, some light is diffused by our atmosphere, and shadows are never dense black
even when thrown by a bright sun. On the moon it is black darkness everywhere outside the direct
rays of the sun, and there is no gradual diminution of the darkness about the edges of shadows
such as we see on the earth. The only mitigation of the blackness is seen where some light
is reflected across from the rocky walls on which the sun is shining.

"In those deep recesses down at the bases of the mountains the cold must be most intense and
the darkness truly awful. It all looks very nice when the sun is shining, but appearances are
often deceptive, and do not improve on a closer acquaintance."

We could not have landed upon the moon if we had desired to do so, for no provision had been
made for a supply of air by means of helmets and other apparatus. I kept my own counsel in
this matter, as I had very good reasons for discountenancing any proposal to investigate the
lunar scenery too closely.

By a curious coincidence, not long after this conversation we had ocular demonstration of the
fact that the moon is liable to changes from other agencies than those of expansion and contraction.

We were looking at some distant mountains which were in the full sunshine. Suddenly a dark
shadowy looking mass shot across the sky and struck one of the mountain peaks some distance
down from the top. The peak seemed to be immediately demolished, and vanished from our sight!

M'Allister gazed spellbound; but John excitedly exclaimed: "Did you see that, Professor? One
moment the peak was there, and the next moment it was gone!"

"Yes," I said. "Undoubtedly that dark shadow was a large meteoric stone. Many have fallen on
our earth at various times, some being tons in weight. Usually, however, they are so small
that on entering our atmosphere they become fused by the friction and changed to dust. Larger
ones are partially fused, and often split into fragments in the upper air. The moon, having
no atmosphere, is quite unprotected in this respect; and meteorites moving at enormous speeds,
probably over forty miles in a second, travel unchecked and unaltered in character until they
strike the lunar surface. It is estimated that immense numbers constantly enter our atmosphere
and are destroyed; but the moon must be continually exposed to bombardment by meteorites of
considerable size.

"Many of our ships have been lost at sea in calm weather, and their fate has remained a profound
mystery; but it is not at all improbable that some of them have been destroyed by large meteorites,
for several instances are recorded of ships having very narrow escapes from these dangerous
missiles from outer space."

Passing on towards the south-west, we had a long look at the magnificent formation named Tycho.
It is a ring-plain nearly fifty-six miles in diameter, the mountain walls having some peaks
over 17,000 feet in height. I drew their attention to the long bright ray-streaks which radiate
in all directions for many hundreds of miles from the neighbourhood of this formation, to which
I alluded when we had been looking at the rays from Proclus. Tycho and these bright streaks
can be seen from the earth when the moon is full without the aid of a telescope, if one possesses
good eyesight.

An enormous number of ring-plains and ring-mountains exists all over the southern half of the
moon's disc; in many cases there are rings within rings, and others where they have overlapped
or cut into previously formed rings.

Moving almost due south, we passed the large but partially ruined walled plain known as Maginus.
This ring has a floor which is no less than 14,000 feet below the lunar surface. We then arrived
at that favourite object for telescopic observers which is named Clavius. This is an enormous
ring-plain, being over 142 miles in diameter, and encloses an area of 16,000 square miles,
thus being half the area of Scotland. It has a very depressed floor, and some of the mountains
are 16,000 to 17,000 feet in altitude.

Farther on, and close to the south pole, we saw the very deepest of the lunar walled plains,
which is named after Newton, who possessed probably the deepest intellect of any of our astronomers.
A smaller formation south of Plato was originally named after him, but was not considered worthy
of a man of his scientific eminence, so the name was transferred to the formation we were looking
upon. It is about 143 miles long and very irregular in shape, and its depth is about 24,000
feet--so deep, in fact, that the sun's light never reaches to the bottom; thus, when we look
at it from the earth, the floor is always in shadow.

The Leibnitz Mountains, unfortunately, were not visible, as the sun had set upon them. I, however,
mentioned that this range comprises several peaks which are believed to be the highest on the
lunar surface, reaching as they do an altitude of 30,000 feet, and, according to some measurements,
40,000 feet. They are very difficult to measure, owing to the fact that they are really situated
on the farther side of the moon, extending east and west of the south pole, and are only occasionally
brought into view by the moon's libration; even then they are seen in profile, and so situated
that they cannot be measured with certainty. They are, however, so high that they blunt the
southern cusp of the moon when it is in crescent form.

I now directed M'Allister to turn the vessel in a north-easterly direction, and we moved across
to the last objects which I proposed to examine. One was the large walled plain "Schickard"--about
135 miles in diameter--which encloses several other rings; the other, which lies to the south-east
of it and close to the moon's south-eastern limb, is probably the most unique object on the
lunar surface. As we gazed upon it I explained that the formation, which is known as "Wargentin,"
would probably in the usual course of events have been a ring-plain about fifty-four miles
in diameter, but it really is a high plateau of that size, with very low ramparts. It is evidently
a ring-plain which became filled to the brim with lava, or mud, that welled up from the interior
of the moon; and the mountain walls, being exceptionally strong and without any breaks or gaps,
withstood the enormous pressure of the lava, which therefore solidified and formed the great
plateau as we now see it. The low ramparts, which we noticed here and there, are really the
isolated peaks and ridges of the mountains forming the walls. This is the only known instance
of such a formation; but probably others would exist had not the walls of the rings given way
under the pressure of the lava. The walls of several ring-plains have been quite carried away,
and, in some cases so obliterated, that it is now difficult to make out the original shape
of the rings.

Having taken a last look at this unique object, I directed M'Allister to set the machinery
in motion and rise for the purpose of quitting the moon.

"But," interposed John, "are you not going to have a look at the back of the moon, Professor?"

"No, John," I answered, "only a small portion of it is now in the sunlight, the rest is in
the blackest darkness, so we should not be likely to learn much more about it than we know
at present."

"Do you think the moon is inhabited?" he then asked.

"No, I do not think it is; no sign of life has ever been discovered, and we have seen nothing
to indicate its existence here. The prevailing conditions seem to preclude the possibility.
Think, John, if there is any life, what must it be! Without any atmosphere--therefore, not
a sound to be heard, for all would ever be in the most deathly silence--no breath of wind;
never a cloud nor a drop of refreshing rain, nor even dew; intense heat in the sunlight and
the most intense cold everywhere in the shade! If any life does exist, it is most probably
down in those gloomy, dark and cold recesses at the bottom of the ring-mountains, where there
may possibly be some remains of an atmosphere. It would, however, be life in such a dreadful
and debased form that I would rather not think about it at all.

"For a somewhat similar reason, I have directed M'Allister to keep the Areonal at least ten
miles above the lunar surface all the time we have been passing over it. When we saw it from
a distance it was, as you know, an object of surpassing beauty; and as we have seen it from
here it has still been pleasant to look upon. This is truly a case where distance lends enchantment
to the view; for, if we went down close to the surface, we should find it a scene of the weirdest
and wildest desolation--more horrible than anything seen during a nightmare, and more terrible
than anything imagined by the insane!

"No, John," I concluded, "let us retain our memory of the moon as a thing of beauty, and leave
it at that."

"I quite agree with your view of the matter, Professor," John replied; so I gave the signal
to M'Allister, who was awaiting the result of our discussion, and we soon left the moon far
below us.

CHAPTER VII

WE RESUME OUR VOYAGE--THE SUN AND THE SKY AS SEEN FROM SPACE

All the time the Areonal had been near the moon some of our machines were storing up fresh
power, and we had accumulated a supply amply sufficient to meet any extra requirements in the
event of our arrival upon Mars being unduly delayed.

We now turned and looked back at the earth; and, as the moon was so near to it at that time,
the earth's disc appeared very nearly two degrees in diameter, or nearly four times the usual
apparent diameter of the full moon as seen from the earth. The crescent of light on its right-hand
side was rather wider than when we last looked at it; but so many clouds hung over it, that
we could not see what countries were comprised in the lighted portion of its surface. Owing
to the light of the stars behind the earth being diffused by the dense atmosphere--in the same
way as it would be diffused by a large lens--there was a ring of brilliant light like a halo
all round the earth's disc.

Having passed away from the moon, I now gave M'Allister the necessary directions in order to
keep the Areonal on a course which would enable us to head off the planet Mars at, as near
as I could reckon, the point it would reach in fifty days' time. The course having been set,
M'Allister was free to join us again, as the machinery required very little attention.

When he did so, M'Allister at once asked me a question. "Professor, can you tell me when it's
going to be daylight? The sun has been shining for hours and hours, yet it's still night; the
sky is blacker than the blackest night I ever saw, and the stars are all out!"

John laughed heartily, and said, "M'Allister, this is daylight! and all the daylight you will
get until we reach Mars."

M'Allister turned to me with a perplexed look on his face and asked, "Is that right, Professor,
or is he trying to pull my leg, as he said he would?"

"Oh yes! It's quite right, M'Allister," I replied. "It is now full daylight, and we shall have
no more night until we reach Mars. That, as you know, will be seven weeks from the present time."

"Well, Professor," he exclaimed, "then how is it the sky is so densely black and the stars
all shining so brightly? I never saw the stars in the daytime before, yet these are shining
brighter than they do on the earth at night."

"Simply," I said, "because upon the earth we were surrounded by a dense atmosphere, which so
diffused the sun's light that the whole sky appeared bright. The stars were there all the time,
but their light was so overpowered by the brilliancy of the atmosphere that they were quite
invisible to us.

"Now, we are out in space where there is no atmosphere at all, so the sky appears a very dense
black; and the stars, having nothing to obscure their light, shine out more brilliantly than
they do on the earth. They appear as bright points of light, and even the sun does not shed
a general light over the sky, there being no atmosphere to diffuse it."

"Yes," he persisted, "but you said we should have no more night until we got to Mars!"

"Certainly," I answered. "Surely, M'Allister, you must have forgotten that night is brought
about by the earth's rotation on its axis, and that the part which is turned away from the
sun is in darkness because its light is hidden by the solid body of the earth, while the earth's
shadow darkens all the sky. When, by the earth's rotation, that part is again turned to the
sun then it becomes daylight. Remember we are not now on the earth, but out in space!"

"Of course I did know all that, Professor," he exclaimed, "but, just for the time, I had forgotten."

"Never mind, M'Allister, we all forget such matters sometimes, and this is quite a new experience
for you. But just take a good look at the sun--have you noticed any difference in its appearance?"

"Yes, Professor, it doesn't look the same colour as when we saw it from the earth; it seems
to have a violet tinge, like some of the electric lights in our streets. There are also long
streamers of light around it, and coloured fringes close to the sun!"

"Yes, that is so," I said; "and we can see all those things now because there is no atmosphere.
No doubt you have noticed that on the earth the sun appeared red when low down in the sky,
and during a fog it appeared redder and duskier still."

"Oh yes, I've often noticed that," he answered.

"That was caused by our atmosphere which, when thick, absorbs all but the red rays of light.
On a clear day the sun appears an extremely pale yellow, or very nearly white; still the atmosphere
absorbs some of the light rays, so we cannot see its true colour as we do now. Those coloured
fringes round the edges can only be seen from the earth by the aid of a special instrument,
and then they do not show all their true colours.

"That pearly light all round the sun, and the long streamers that give it the appearance of
an enormous star with six long points, form what is termed the solar corona, and this can only
be seen from our earth during the very few minutes when an eclipse of the sun is at its totality.
It is to see the corona and other surroundings of the sun, in order to study them, that astronomers
go such very long distances--often thousands of miles--when there is a total eclipse expected,
and not merely to see the eclipse itself. They hope, in time, to learn much from such observations;
but if it happens that the sky is over-clouded during the period of total eclipse, then all
their expense, and the time spent in preparations and rehearsals of their procedure, are, unfortunately,
entirely wasted.

"Now, M'Allister, if you will take my glass you will be able to look at the sun and examine
it without any risk to your eyesight, for it is provided with a dark glass to shut out all
the dangerous glare. You will then see what the fringes and inner and outer coronas really
are like."

He took the glass and looked for a long time at the sun, and, judging from his exclamations
of surprise and astonishment, he was extremely interested and delighted with what he saw. John
was also examining it at the same time through his own glass.

Presently the latter turned to me saying, "Professor, I no longer wonder that astronomers are
prepared to travel long distances, and to risk a great deal of discomfort, and even hardship,
in order to view and study the sun's surroundings. Of course to them it is not merely a sight
to be seen, but the only means by which they can acquire a knowledge of solar physics. Merely
as a sight, however, it is most wonderful. At many places all round the edge of the sun's disc
I can see what look like coloured flames--pink, pea-green, carmine, orange, or yellow, all
in incessant movement--shooting out at times, or waving and shimmering in a manner that is
indescribable. The changes in form and colour are as sudden, yet as definite, as the changes
produced by turning a kaleidoscope; while the intermingling of the various colours frequently
produces an effect which I can only compare to the iridescent colours on mother o' pearl. Then
all around and beyond the coloured fringe there is the light of the pearly inner corona; beyond
that are pearly and violet-tinged rays curling away in both directions from the poles, whilst
outside all are the long, pearly, and violet-tinted streamers which assume the shape of a large
many-pointed star; and even these do not seem at rest. Though astronomers cannot see all that
we do now, there must be sufficient visible to them to afford opportunity for a most interesting
study."

"That is indeed the case, John," I replied. "Those coloured flames, for instance, form a study
in themselves, which some observers make their particular hobby. As seen from the earth, they
all appear some tint of red; and, normally, according to measurements, they seem to extend
a distance of some 20,000 miles above the sun. They shift their position very rapidly indeed;
movements at the rate of 100 miles a second are quite moderate compared with some which have
been noted, yet one can scarcely realise such rapidity of motion. Frequently, however, these
flames are seen to rise in immense masses to tremendous heights above the sun's surface, evidently
driven upwards by explosions of the most intense energy. In 1888, for instance, one was observed
which, in the course of two hours, rose to a height of 350,000 miles before it broke up; that
is, at the rate of 50 miles a second all the time; but, as the force would become less and
less as the distance increased, at the earlier part of the time the movement must have been
far more rapid. When the impetus derived from the explosive force is quite exhausted, the top
part of the mass of flame often spreads out like the top of a tree, then breaks up and falls
back into the sun in large flakes of flame.

"It is supposed that these violent explosions are the cause of the spots we so often see on
the sun when observing it with our telescopes; and, when looking at them in their earliest
stage, we are probably looking at a mass of flame end on, instead of seeing it in profile,
as is the case when the explosion occurs near the edge of the disc. The flames, as examined
by the spectroscope, appear to be largely composed of hydrogen gas; and no doubt many other
gases--some quite unknown to us--enter into their composition. They are termed flames, but
are more probably immense volumes of incandescent gases. The corona itself is never seen twice
alike; its shape and size vary at every eclipse, but the variation runs in a regular cycle
from maximum to minimum.

"You will also observe that all around the corona, and extending a vast distance beyond it
on both sides, is a fainter pearly light. This is what is termed the zodiacal light, and is
believed to be the thinner portion of the sun's atmosphere. We can see it from the earth occasionally
after the sun has set, extending far up into the sky in the form of a semi-ellipse, the base
of which is over the place where the sun is."

M'Allister here asked me to tell him "What was supposed to be the actual size of our sun, and
how far it was away from the earth?"

I answered that "The sun is about 865,000 miles in diameter; and that he would have some idea
of what an immense body it is if he remembered that it would require 64,000,000 globes the
size of the moon to make one globe the size of the sun! Yet, notwithstanding this immense size,
our sun is quite a small body as compared with some of the fixed stars, which, as perhaps you
may know, are really suns at an inconceivable distance from us. The bright star Sirius, which
is visible during our winter time, is not only very much brighter in reality than our sun,
but must be many times larger; and there are others known to be very much larger than Sirius.
It has been computed that Arcturus is in mass 500,000 times as large as our sun!

"The sun revolves on its axis in a little over twenty-five days, but the exact period of its
revolution is difficult to determine. The mean distance of the sun from the earth is about
92,800,000 miles. When we are farthest from it its distance is 94,600,000 miles, and when nearest,
91,000,000 miles--these differences, of course, arising from the eccentricity of the earth's orbit.

"The sun's density is only about one-fifth of the earth's density; so it is evidently mainly
gaseous--at all events in the outer envelopes.

"The spots upon the sun often cover such an immense area, that if our earth were dropped into
the cavity, it would be like placing a pea in a teacup! Some of the spots entirely close up
in a short time, but others last for weeks."

We now turned from the sun and looked at the stars. Such a multitude were visible as we had
never seen from the earth; for small stars, which there required a telescope to bring them
into view, could now be plainly seen without any such aid, and their various colours were seen
much more clearly. They all shone with a clear and steady light; the twinkling and scintillation
of the stars, as seen from the earth, being caused by the vibrations and movements in our own
atmosphere. We also saw many nebulæ without using a glass.

The Milky Way was a most gorgeous spectacle, and its beauty utterly beyond description, as
such an immense number of its component stars, and their different colours, were visible to
the unaided eye; besides, we could trace wisps and branches of it to regions of the sky far
beyond the limits within which it is seen from the earth.

We noted that the planets were also much more clearly seen; and the orange-red disc of Mars,
of course, received our particular attention.

We had spent very many hours in viewing the moon, and a long time in examining the sun and
stars; so we now sat down to a hearty meal, and, after a short time spent in conversation,
we made our arrangements for taking turns in attending to the machinery, and then retired to
bed. Still, 2,000,000 miles a day was sufficient to make a diminution in the apparent sizes
of the sun and Venus; and there was a gradual increase in the size of the planets, Mars and
Saturn, towards which we were moving. As regards the fixed stars, however, there was no change
in our surroundings, as they are such an immense distance away--the nearest being, at least,
twenty billions of miles from the earth, that a few million miles more or less make no difference
in their apparent size, or in their positions in regard to each other in the constellations
as we know them in our maps.

As we were now fairly on our way, and moving rapidly in the direction we wished to travel,
I thought it quite time to put into operation a scheme which John and I had previously decided
upon, so I told M'Allister that he must be prepared to take a little change of air.

"Why, Professor," he exclaimed, "that sounds almost like a proposal for going to the seaside!"

"We certainly are not going there," I replied, "for we are rapidly moving away from all seaside
resorts, and you are not likely to visit any of those places for a very long time to come."

"Well, mon, where are we going to get our change of air then?" he inquired; "you know there's
no air at all outside of this vessel."

"Quite true," I answered; "so we must get our change of air inside the vessel."

"Yes," interposed John, "and, Kenneth M'Allister, you will have to make up your mind to have
rather short commons of it; the same as we shall!"

"Whatever do you mean?" he inquired, now appearing really scared--for a dreadful thought had
crossed his mind. "Mon, you surely do not mean that our machinery is giving out!"

"Oh no! not at all, M'Allister," I replied; "but perhaps I had better give you a full explanation
of the matter:--

"You know we are bound for the planet Mars, where the air is very much thinner than that which
we have been accustomed to breathe, and very probably it is composed of somewhat different
constituents. In these circumstances you will understand that, if we landed upon Mars without
having taken proper precautions, such thin air might make us very ill, even if it did not kill us.

"That little compartment next the store-room was arranged and fitted up for the special purpose
of supplying a thin air in which we could prepare ourselves for the atmosphere of the red planet.
So we are really going into training. The machines in that room will generate an attenuated
atmosphere somewhat similar to our own, and this will be automatically mixed in a cylinder
with a little oxygen and nitrous oxide gas, so as to make it as near as possible like what
we expect to find upon Mars. When we commence it will be only slightly different from our own
air; then gradually we shall reduce its density and change its quality until it is as thin
as we shall require. Each of us must spend about eight hours a day in that little compartment,
though it will not be necessary to take the eight hours continuously, for we may spend a few
intervals in the other rooms.

"John and I will take general charge of the machinery in that room, and he will also look after
your machines whilst you are with me in our Martian air-chamber. In addition to these arrangements,
we have prepared a concentrated air of the same kind which we can carry about with us in bottles,
so that by simply opening a little valve in the bottle we can inhale some of the air now and
then when we are in the other rooms. By adopting this plan, I hope when we reach Mars we shall
all have become so acclimatised that we shall be able to breathe the Martian air without much
inconvenience."

"Heh, Professor," said M'Allister, "what a mon you are for planning things out; I would never
have thought of that!"

"John had quite as much to do with the planning out as I had," I replied; "and as you now understand
what we propose to do, we will at once commence our training, but we shall not feel much difference
in the air for the next day or two."

We accordingly put our plan into operation, each of us making up at least eight hours' time
every day in the Martian air-chamber, with the result that we gradually became accustomed to
the thinner air, and could breathe it without any feeling of inconvenience.

As the days went on I began to notice that John was becoming very irritable; and so was I,
though to a lesser extent. The closer confinement to one room was evidently beginning to tell
upon us, and day by day the effects were more apparent on both of us, especially in the case
of John; but, strangely enough, whilst we were becoming more depressed and irritable, M'Allister's
spirits seemed to be rising every day!

It has often been remarked that if two or three people are shut up together for a considerable
time, with no other companionship or change, sooner or later they are bound to fall out with
each other.

Up to the present we had all agreed splendidly, but now John's irritability seemed to increase
hourly; and as regards myself, I often found it necessary to exercise very great self-control
to avoid giving very sharp and snappish answers to John's peevish and querulous remarks.

But the inevitable explosion came at last, and, like all explosions, was very sudden and unexpected
when it did happen.

All the morning of the 2nd of September John had been wandering in and out of the various rooms,
and frowning as though very displeased about something. I gave him a hint or two that he ought
to put in more time with me in the air-chamber, but he took no notice of my suggestions. Presently,
whilst I was in there alone, he came through, but, without speaking to me, went on into the
store-room; and I heard him in there opening and shutting the lockers and cupboards, generally
closing the doors with a loud bang, as persons do when in a very bad temper.

These bangs became more frequent and more violent, and at last succeeded each other with such
rapidity that it seemed almost as though a vigorous cannonade were in progress.

I was wondering what could be the meaning of all this commotion, when suddenly the door opened,
and John rushed into the room looking very cross indeed.

"I'm sorry, Professor," he cried, "though it's no use saying so; but we must go back to England
again at once!"

"Good gracious, John!" I exclaimed, "what do you mean, and whatever has happened to upset you
so and cause you to change your mind in this extraordinary way?"

"The deluge has happened," he replied, very crossly. "Professor, I've left all my stock of
tobacco behind!"

"Never, John," I replied. "Why, you packed it up yourself; and I remember that when we overhauled
the stores on our departure I saw the large tin of tobacco in your cupboard."

"I thought I packed it up," he answered, "but it's nowhere to be found now. As my tobacco supply
had nearly run out I went to the cupboard this morning to get some more, and took down the
big tin of twenty-six pounds labelled 'Tobacco.' I opened it, and what do you think it contained?
You would never guess--well, it was tapioca!

"I've looked everywhere I can think of, without finding a trace of the weed."

Just then M'Allister came into the room, and, noticing John's vicious frown and my troubled
look, asked what was wrong. We told him the news, but he only laughed, and, turning to John,
exclaimed, "Heh, John, don't fash yourself about the tobacco, mon; we'll find you a substitute.
There's more kinds than one."

"Substitute, indeed!" said John snappishly, "no substitutes for me!"

"Well, John," I interposed, "you can have as much of my tobacco as you like; it's a good brand,
you know, and I shall not mind a shorter allowance, for it does not mean much to me."

"No," he exclaimed sharply, "I can't take yours, Professor; it's your own special brand!"

"Well, John," said M'Allister, "you're as welcome to mine as if it were your own, and it's
fine strong stuff too. And you can have some of my Navy plug as well," he added with a grin;
"you'll find it rare good chewing."

"I simply cannot take the Professor's tobacco," said John; then, angrily turning upon poor
M'Allister, he cried, "And as for your filthy stuff, it's a downright insult to offer it to me!"

"John! John!" I implored, "do be reasonable; it's not at all like you to talk in this rude
way, and you must know we really cannot go back now!"

"Reasonable!" he sneered. "Do you call it reasonable, Professor, to ask a man who is a lover
of his pipe to go all the way to Mars and stay there for months without any tobacco!"

"Well, you will not accept mine, although you know perfectly well that you are heartily welcome
to it. It's not your own particular brand, it is true, but it is a real good one. However,
most likely you will find some on Mars; there's plenty of vegetation on that planet, without
a doubt."

"Vegetation be hanged!" he angrily exclaimed. "What am I to do in the meantime? As for tobacco
growing upon Mars--why, sir, I'd bet my bottom dollar that, outside our own world, there's
no place in the whole universe where anything equal to my superb mixture can be produced. It's
no use talking, Professor; as I said before, we must go back."

"We cannot go back," I replied sternly, for by this time I was becoming very irritated at his
obstinacy. "The idea of going back so many million miles merely to fetch tobacco! Remember,
we have travelled at least 57,000,000 miles on the way to our destination!"

John strode up and down, becoming more and more excited every minute, and was soon quite raging;
yet it seemed most singular that the more John raged the more M'Allister laughed. I looked
from one to the other in amazement and the most utter perplexity at this extraordinary change
in their behaviour. Then all at once I saw a gleam of light, so to speak, and the solution
of the mystery became clear to me.

The air we had so long been breathing when in the air-chamber, and when we made use of our
air-bottles, was very similar to what is popularly known as "laughing-gas"; and undoubtedly
we were all more or less experiencing the cumulative effects of the constant mild doses we
had inhaled. Laughing-gas acts in a different manner upon persons of different temperaments:
some will keep laughing, moderately or immoderately; others will become irritable, angry, or
even pugnacious; whilst others again will weep copiously.

M'Allister was now talking rapidly and quietly to himself, laughing all the while, his eyes
shining and twinkling merrily as though something intensely amusing were being enacted.

This seemed to react upon John, who apparently was irritated beyond control, and presently
he roared out, "Kenneth M'Allister, stop that infernal grinning and chattering like a monkey!
Stop it, I say! stop it directly!" But M'Allister took no notice and laughed louder than ever.

"Why, you confounded baboon," shouted John, "you're worse than any laughing hyena! Stop it,
stop it at once, or I shall do you some mischief!" And he advanced towards M'Allister in such
a menacing attitude that I had to rush between them to keep them apart.

He was now raging up and down the room, looking as angry as a hungry lion which has just had
a long expected dinner suddenly snatched away from it; but the worse he became the louder M'Allister
shrieked with laughter. The latter was now simply rolling about the room--for it could not
be termed walking, it was so erratic--holding his sides and laughing, whilst the tears were
chasing each other down his cheeks. He kept trying to speak, but had no sooner stuttered out
the words, "Heh, mon! heh, mon!" than he was off again into another wild paroxysm of laughter,
and was rapidly becoming exhausted.

Things were really becoming very serious indeed, and I saw that something must be done at once
to put an end to this disturbance. So, going over to M'Allister, I took him gently by the shoulders
and pushed him out of the room, saying quietly, "Go to your own room at once; but for goodness'
sake don't touch the machinery until the air has had time to put you right again. Leave me
to deal with John." He rolled off through the doorway, still laughing "fit to split" as people say.

Returning to John, I tried to calm him down; but it proved a long and difficult task, though
at last I succeeded in persuading him to go with me into our living-room and sit down quietly.

After sitting there some time, puffing away at his pipe, the fresher air began to have its
effect; and soon I judged that he was calm enough to talk the matter over and discuss the situation
more reasonably.

Then I said: "John, my dear fellow, please listen to me. You know we have now travelled quite
57,000,000 miles on our journey, and that all our arrangements have been made with a view to
reaching Mars not later than the 24th of September, because it will then be at the point where
it is in opposition to the sun as seen from the earth. It is merely a sentimental reason so
far as the opposition is concerned, but there are substantial reasons for not delaying our arrival.

"You say we must go back, but please consider all that such a course must involve. Though the
earth has been following us up pretty closely on a slightly different course it is at the present
about 13,000,000 miles away from us. You will see it out there on our left hand towards the
rear of the Areonal; but we cannot go direct across to where it is now, for by the time we
reached that point the earth would have gone ahead several million miles. Our only course is
to head it off, and, taking the shortest line, that means a journey of over 12,000,000 miles.
Therefore, we cannot reach England until the 8th of September at the earliest, and as we shall
require at least a week to lay in fresh stores, it will be the 15th before we can start again.

"Starting on the 15th September we should have to travel at least 54,000,000 miles before we
could catch up Mars, and as that will take twenty-eight days, we could not arrive there before
the 13th of October. (See the chart.)

"Thus, we must sacrifice our chance of being upon Mars on the date of opposition, and also
the opportunity of catching the first glimpse of our earth a few days later. If we continue
our journey now and reach Mars on the 24th of September the earth will then be only 37,000,000
miles away; but by the 13th October it will be over 40,000,000 miles distant. There is the
further objection that to get back again in reasonable time we must leave Mars by the 1st of
December, and the loss of three weeks' time will deprive us of many opportunities of learning
what there is to be found on the planet.

"Now, John, like a good fellow, just think over the matter quietly and reasonably; you will
then realise that it is quite impossible to interrupt our journey and return to England as
you suggest."

"I have thought it all out again and again," he replied, "and can only repeat, Professor, that
it is quite impossible for me to go on minus my tobacco!"

"Was there ever such an obstinate and unreasonable man!" I thought to myself. "What can I do
to put an end to this absurd difficulty?"

Resuming the conversation, and keeping as calm as I could in the circumstances, I placed the
matter before him in all its aspects, and after we had been talking together for a long time,
he seemed to be able to take a more reasonable view of the position. In order that something
might be done to keep his mind from dwelling upon his proposal to return to England, I suggested
that we should go to the store-room and thoroughly overhaul it.

He agreed to this, accompanying me to the store-room and pointing out the different places
he had searched. The tins were in several sizes, but all were made square in order that not
an inch of the available space might be wasted. We looked into a large number of tins which
had not previously been examined, but without finding what we wanted.

At last a thought occurred to me, and I said: "You tell me, John, that you are quite certain
you put up the tobacco and labelled the tin yourself, yet the tin so labelled was found to
contain tapioca! Do you remember where the tapioca was stowed away?"

He pondered awhile, with his chin resting upon his fingers, then suddenly replied, "Yes, I
think I know where it is," and, taking me over to another cupboard at the far end of the room,
we made a further search and at last found the tapioca tin, opened it, and lo, there was the
missing tobacco!

"Well, I'm blest!" said John, very slowly drawing out the words; then all his ill-humour suddenly
vanished, and he burst into a most hearty laugh, in which I joined. Our laughter, indeed, was
so mutually contagious, and so often renewed, that we had to sit down to finish it and recover
ourselves.

Then John remarked, "Now, Professor, I think I can explain it all. You see I prepared and labelled
those confounded tins before loading them up; so I suppose that when stowing away the parcels
of tobacco I just glanced at the label on the tin and saw the letter T followed by the right
number of other letters, and, taking it for granted that it was the tobacco tin, placed the
tobacco in it. The only other tin left to pack was the one I supposed to be labelled 'Tapioca,'
and no doubt, without troubling to look at the label at all, I put the tapioca into it; but,
of course, it must really have been the tin labelled 'Tobacco.'"

Thus the matter was satisfactorily cleared up. John, having found his beloved weed and recovered
from the effects of our patent Martian air, was now quite himself again, seeming very contrite,
and apologising repeatedly for his rude conduct.

"That's enough, John," I said, as I laid my hand on his arm; "it is quite clear that what you
did was mainly the result of the peculiar air you had been breathing, so I cannot blame you
much. If I had not taken so many intervals in the purer air, I might perhaps have been equally
affected; as it was, my temper was none of the sweetest."

M'Allister had also quite recovered by this time, and bore no ill-will towards John; indeed,
I doubt whether he had any very clear recollection of what had occurred.

So that ended the matter; and this little explosion having cleared the air, we all settled
down to our old amicable relationship. We, however, took the precaution of reducing the amount
of nitrous-oxide gas in our mixture of air, with a view to preventing any similar untoward
results in future.

We were all sitting together in our living-room on the 9th of September, whiling away the time
in a game of whist, and, as it was the final rubber and we were running very close together,
we were quite absorbed in the play; although, of course, it was a dummy game.

Suddenly we heard a most tremendous crash, apparently from the right-hand side of the air-chamber,
the vessel giving a violent lurch sideways, then shivering and trembling from end to end. The
crash was immediately followed by a sharp rattling on the top and side of the Areonal, just
as though a fusillade of good-sized bullets had been fired at us.

"My word! whatever's that?--one of the cylinders must have exploded," cried M'Allister, jumping
up in alarm and running into the air-chamber. We followed him, and looked all round the room
at the different machines and apparatus, but could find nothing wrong.

John, chancing to look up, however, at once noticed a large bulge on the inner shell of the
vessel, high up on the right-hand side; and then, turning to me, pointed it out, saying, "I
think, Professor, it is pretty clear now what has happened."

"Yes, that huge bulge explains itself," I replied; "undoubtedly a fair-sized meteoric stone
has collided with our vessel. It is very fortunate that the stone was not much larger, or there
would have been an end to the Areonal and to us as well. These meteorites travel at such tremendous
speed that, on entering the earth's atmosphere, they become incandescent owing to the friction
of the air, and, unless very large, are entirely consumed and dissipated into dust before they
can reach the earth. Those that do fall are always partially fused on the outside by the tremendous
heat generated by the friction of our atmosphere. These meteorites are what people call 'shooting
stars,' and many are under the impression that they really are stars, until the difference
is explained to them."

John said, "We ought to congratulate ourselves upon such a lucky escape from annihilation;
for had our vessel been constructed of any metal less hard and tough than our 'martalium,'
and without a double and packed shell, it must have been wrecked and entirely destroyed by
the shock of the tremendous concussion it had sustained. Even the very metal of the casing
might have been completely melted by the intense heat generated by the impact of the meteorite."

"Heh, mon!" exclaimed M'Allister; "it's all very well talking about our lucky escape, and putting
it all down to your own cleverness in designing and constructing the Areonal; but you should
rather give thanks to Providence for saving us, and for enabling you to take the precautions
you did. I say, 'Thank God!'" he remarked, and he solemnly raised his right hand as he spoke.

"Quite right, M'Allister," replied John: "we are all too prone to credit ourselves with more
than we are entitled to. At the same time, M'Allister, you must remember that we Englishmen
recognise as fully as you do the over-ruling power of Providence, although we may not be quite
so free in speaking about it in ordinary conversation."

"Yes," I added, "you may be quite sure, M'Allister, that we are equally as grateful as yourself
for the mercy which has preserved us all from an awful death. My very first thought on realising
our extremely narrow escape from destruction was to say 'Thank God!' but I did not say it aloud
as you did. It is in matters like these that people differ according to their temperament and
training; and it is not safe to judge another because, in any particular circumstances, he
does not act in precisely the same way as we ourselves would."

Thus we travelled on and on, each day bringing us more than two million miles nearer to our
destination. Mars was apparently increasing in diameter the nearer we drew to it, and the dark
blue line around the south polar snow-cap, indicating the lake of water from the melting snow,
was very conspicuous. The snow-cap had recently decreased rapidly, being now near its minimum
and irregular in shape, for in the southern hemisphere it was now late in June. Pointing to
the planet, I remarked, "There is our destination!

On the 18th of September we passed between the earth and Mars, nearly in a line with the sun.
On that date Mars was in perigee, or at its nearest point to the earth during the present year.
Its distance from the earth was then 36,100,000 miles, and it will not be so close again until
the 24th of August 1924. We could not see the earth, as its dark side was turned towards us,
and it was also lost in the brilliancy of the sun.

At this date we had travelled 88,000,000 miles since we left the earth, yet we knew it was
there, level with our vessel, and only about 29,000,000 miles distant on our left hand, whilst
Mars was only 7,000,000 miles from us on our right-hand side.

Our position now was as follows:--Taking an imaginary line drawn from the Areonal to Mars as
the base line of an isosceles triangle, we were moving along the left side of the triangle,
and Mars was moving in a slightly curved line along the right side. Our paths were therefore
converging, and if all went well we should both meet at the apex of the triangle on the 24th
September, as we had originally intended.

We therefore had six clear days to cover the distance of less than 12,000,000 miles, so we
should have sufficient time to slacken speed at the end of the journey. (See the chart.)

Mars was rapidly growing in size and brightness, for the distance between the planet and the
Areonal was quickly diminishing as our paths converged, and the various markings on its almost
full round disc formed the subject of continual observation and conversation. We had noticed
on several occasions a mistiness on some parts of the planet, which I attributed to the vapours
raised from the canals by the heated atmosphere.

On the 21st of September, when we were all enjoying a smoke in the "evening," and conversation
had dragged somewhat, John started us off on a fresh tack and gave us something to talk about
for a very long time.

He winked at M'Allister and, looking at me with a knowing smile, said: "Professor, as we are
nearing our destination it might perhaps be well if you now gave us some detailed information
respecting the planet, similar to that which you gave us when we were approaching the moon.
It would be both interesting and useful; for we should learn much more from an orderly statement
of the facts than we should from several long but desultory conversations."

"Yes, Professor," chimed in M'Allister, "I'm quite ready to learn something definite about
Mars, for I can't say I really know much about it at present."

"Very well then," I replied, "it is upon your own heads, and if you are willing to listen to
a rather long story, I am prepared to do the talking. Please remember, however, that it will
require some time to make matters clear and understandable."

"Fire away, mon," cried M'Allister, "we will listen as long as you care to talk."

So I began--"Mars, as no doubt you are aware, is a much smaller planet than the earth, its
diameter being only 4220 miles, which is a little less than twice the diameter of our moon.

"It would require nine and a half globes the size of Mars to make one globe the size of the
earth; and even then it would not be so heavy, because the average density of Mars is only
about three-fourths of that of the earth. Mars is the next planet outside the earth's orbit,
so is the fourth from the sun. The orbit in which Mars moves in its journey round the sun is
very much more eccentric than the earth's orbit; in fact it is more eccentric than the orbits
of any of the larger planets. As a consequence, the planet's distance from the sun varies greatly
according to the particular part of the orbit in which it may be moving. Its mean distance
from the sun is 141,500,000 miles, its greatest distance over 154,000,000, and at its nearest
approach to the sun, or 'perihelion,' as it is called, its distance is only 129,500,000 miles.
Mars travels in its orbit at a mean rate of 15 miles a second.

"As its orbit is also eccentrically placed in relation to the earth's orbit, it follows that
its nearest distance from us in any particular years may vary greatly. The nearest possible
approach it can make in regard to the earth is a little under 35,000,000 miles; when at the
opposite point of its orbit its nearest approach is about 62,000,000 miles from the earth.
As the years of Mars and the earth differ greatly in length, and the two planets move at different
speeds, the very favourable oppositions can only occur about once every forty-five years; though
a comparatively near opposition occurs about every fifteen years. Such a close approach we
have just witnessed, and it will be fifteen years before Mars is again so near to the earth!

"The Martian year is equal to 687 of our days, but as the Martian days are slightly longer
than ours, this really represents 668 Martian days.

"The entire surface of Mars contains an area of about 56,000,000 square miles, which is about
one-fourth of the area of the earth's surface.

"Its gravity is only three-eighths of the earth's gravity, thus everything upon Mars would
weigh proportionately lighter than on the earth, and the amount of labour required to do such
work as digging or lifting would be lessened. There would, for the same reason, be greater
ease of movement in walking, jumping, or running, and large bulky animals like our elephants
could move with almost the same ease and freedom as our goats.

"Theoretically, we should expect to find the atmosphere upon Mars very much thinner than our
atmosphere, and actual observation proves this to be the case. We are able to see details on
the surface of Mars with very much greater distinctness than would be the case if its atmosphere
were as dense as ours. Moreover, clouds are comparatively rarely seen; and the majority that
are observed present more the appearance of clouds of sand than rain clouds. Usually, also,
they float very much higher above the planet's surface than our clouds are above the earth's
surface; ten miles high is quite an ordinary altitude, and some have been estimated as quite
thirty miles above the planet.

"Many theorists have attempted to prove that, owing to the planet's distance from the sun,
and the thinness of its atmosphere, the temperature of Mars must be very low, probably below
freezing-point even at the equator. Dr. Alfred Russel Wallace has gone further than this, and
suggests that the temperature must be eighty degrees Centigrade below freezing-point; that
there is no water or water vapour on the planet; and that it is quite impossible for life to
exist there!

"However, as the result of delicate bolometric experiments, careful calculations, and consideration
of conditions affecting the result which have not previously received so much attention, Professor
Very has arrived at a different opinion; and actual observation has shown that there is very
little indication of frost outside the frigid zones. Even in the polar regions it is at times
evidently warmer than at the earth's poles, because during the spring and summer the snow-caps
upon Mars not only melt more rapidly, but melt to a much greater extent than our polar caps
do. In 1894 the southern polar snow-cap of Mars was observed almost continuously during the
melting period, and it was actually observed to dwindle and dwindle until it had entirely disappeared.
It is rather strange to think that we know more about the snow-caps of that far-distant world
than we do about those on our own earth.

"Owing to the lesser gravity on Mars the snow and ice which forms the caps would certainly
be lighter and less closely compacted than the snow and ice upon our earth; but it is quite
clear that it could not melt to any extent unless the temperature remained above freezing-point
for a considerable length of time.

"It has, however, seriously been contended that the Martian polar caps are not snow at all,
but frozen carbon dioxide--the poisonous dregs of what once was an atmosphere. Carbon dioxide,
however, melts and becomes gaseous almost suddenly, but these polar snow-caps melt gradually,
exactly as frozen snow would; so this theory fails altogether to fit the circumstances.

"Moreover, the water which accumulates all round the base of the melting snow-cap has been
carefully observed on many occasions, and in the early stage of melting it appears blue in
tint, but later on, as upper layers of snow dissolve and those nearer the soil are reached,
the water presents a turbid and muddy appearance; exactly what might be expected when water
has been contaminated by the surface soil.

"Dr. Alfred Russel Wallace declines to accept the blue tint as any proof that the liquid is
water, and contends that shallow water would not appear that colour when viewed from a distance.
You will, however, have observed that the water in all our shallow reservoirs appears intensely
blue when observed from any distant and elevated point of view. It seems to me that when, as
in the case of Mars, we have a very thin atmosphere laden with sand particles, we have exactly
the conditions which would produce a very blue sky, and cause the water to appear a deep blue
colour when viewed from a distance.

"It is also contended that water cannot be present on Mars, because none of our skilled spectroscopists
has yet been able to demonstrate by the spectroscope that there is any water vapour in the
Martian atmosphere.

"This, however, is generally acknowledged to be a very difficult and delicate operation; and,
in any case, it is purely negative evidence, and cannot be accepted as final. I feel quite
confident that sooner or later a means will be found of definitely proving the presence of
water vapour upon Mars by the aid of the usual lines in the spectrum. There are too many evidences
of its presence, such as clouds, hoarfrost, snow, and seasonal changes in vegetation, to warrant
the rejection of the idea of its existence merely because it has not been detected by the particular
means hitherto used by the spectroscopists.

"Mr. Slipher, of Flagstaff Observatory, has made many experiments with specially sensitised
photographic plates. He has taken several photographs of the spectrum of the moon and others
of the spectrum of the planet Mars. The plates of the lunar spectrum show a darkening of the
'a' band, which indicates the presence of water vapour, and we know that is due to the water
vapour in our own atmosphere. The plates of the spectrum of Mars show a much more definite
darkening of the 'a' band, and Professor Lowell contends that this can only be due to water
vapour in the atmosphere of Mars.

"Professor Campbell has, however, made similar experiments, and is of opinion that Professor
Lowell has been deceived by the water vapour in our own atmosphere. Thus the matter stands
at the present time, and we must await the result of further investigation before we can consider
the matter settled.

"I, however, regard it as a certainty that improved means will definitely show that water vapour
undoubtedly exists in the Martian atmosphere, and it is not unlikely that other constituents
of that atmosphere may also be identified, and possibly even the relative quantities may be
ascertained."

John here remarked that he had read of it being contended that life could not exist on Mars
because as water would boil at a temperature a hundred degrees lower than it did on the earth,
it would be impossible to boil a potato properly, or make a good cup of tea. He thought, however,
that if water boiled at such a low temperature, then the proportion of water vapour in the
air would be increased, as evaporation would be more rapid than on the earth.

"Undoubtedly so," I replied. "The first argument, however, is very weak. For many thousands
of years the people on the earth not only managed to live, but attained a high state of civilisation,
yet we have no reason to believe that they ever ate potatoes or drank tea! Even in England
we have only known and used these articles for about three hundred years! The inhabitants of
any world would be suited to their environments.

"The polar-caps on Mars are shown on very early drawings of the planet; but, up to the year
1877, little was known of the general surface details beyond the fact that the general colour
was orange-red, diversified by dark patches of blue-green in some parts, and some narrow, serpentine
markings here and there. All these markings are now much more accurately drawn, as the result
of more careful and continuous observation. Sir William Herschel suggested that the red colour
was attributable to the vegetation of Mars being red, instead of green as on our earth; but
it was generally considered that the red areas indicated land and the dark areas water. The
work of our modern observers has, however, resulted in a general revision of our ideas on these
points.

"It had long been reasoned that, as the earth was accompanied by a moon, and Jupiter had at
least four, Mars, the intermediate planet, might be expected to possess a satellite. The planet
itself being small, its moon would probably be very small, and likely to be overlooked when
observing with the telescope, because its light would be overpowered by the light of the planet,
which would make the telescopic field of view very bright. Up to the year 1877 the most powerful
instruments had been used without success in the search for the supposed satellite.

"In that year Mars made an exceptionally near approach to the earth, and Professor Asaph Hall,
of Washington Observatory, took up the search, using a splendid refracting telescope having
an object-glass 26 inches in diameter. The methods he adopted were rewarded with success, for
he discovered not only one, but two satellites of Mars, and they were given the names of Phobos
and Deimos.

"Both these satellites are very close to the planet and extremely small, Phobos being less
than 4000 miles from the planet's surface, and Deimos only 12,300 miles from it. As seen in
the telescope, they are very faint points of light which cannot be measured by ordinary means,
and the estimation of their size was a matter of great difficulty.

"Professor Langley gives an interesting account of the endeavour to estimate their size by
the amount of light reflected, as compared with the light afforded by our own moon when full.
It was a most difficult task, as the comparison had to be made by means of tiny holes drilled
in metal plates; and for a long time it was impossible to find a workman who could drill a
hole sufficiently small for the purpose, although one of those employed had succeeded in drilling
a hole through a lady's thin cambric needle from end to end, thus converting it into a tiny
steel tube. One would have thought such a feat impossible; yet what was now required was a
hole smaller than the one thus made through the tiny needle."

"My word!" said M'Allister, "I would like to see the mon who did that piece of work, and shake
hands with him; he must be a rare clever fellow!"

"Yes," said John, "and I would like to see the drill he used; for such a long and extremely
slender tool, to be effective, must be as clever a piece of work as the steel tube."

"I may tell you," I proceeded, "that success was at last attained; and as a result of the comparison
of our moon's light with that of Deimos, it was shown that if the general surface brightness
of the latter were equal to that of our moon, then Deimos must be only 18 miles in diameter,
or about a 15,000th part of the area of our moon's disc.

"To state the matter in another way--supposing our moon were only 18 miles in diameter, and
was removed to the same distance as Deimos is from us, then it would appear only the very faint
point of light that Deimos appears when viewed through the telescope.

"By the same means Phobos, the satellite nearest to Mars, was estimated to be about 22-1/2
miles in diameter. These dimensions, however, depend on the brightness of these satellites
being exactly the same as the general brightness of our moon; and later experiments have fixed
the sizes as 36 miles for Phobos, and 10 miles as the diameter of Deimos.

"I will not detain you much longer on this subject, as we shall be able to discuss it further
when we arrive upon Mars; but I may now mention that, in one respect, the little satellite
named Phobos is unique. It is the only satellite we know of which revolves round its primary
planet in less time than it takes the planet itself to make one revolution on its axis.[6]

"Mars revolves on its axis in 24 hours, 37 minutes, and 22 seconds, thus the 'day' on Mars
is nearly 38 minutes longer than our 'day.' Phobos revolves round the planet in the very short
period of 7 hours, 39 minutes, and 14 seconds, and therefore makes more than three complete
revolutions round the planet in the course of a single Martian day. The peculiar phenomena
to which this very rapid motion gives rise, and the numerous eclipses which occur, will be
matters of great interest to us all when we reach Mars. Our moon, as you know, takes a month
to make one revolution round the earth."

"Professor," said John, "when we get to Mars, it will be rather a curious experience for us
to see two moons shining in the sky at the same time!"

"My word!" exclaimed M'Allister, "two moons shining at once! If I go out and see such a sight
as that, I shall think the whisky has been a wee bit too strong for me!"

"Well," replied John, "if your usual drink has the effect of making you see double, take good
advice, and leave the whisky severely alone when you are on Mars, or else you will be seeing
four moons all at once, and receive such a shock that you will never get over it!"

M'Allister laughed pleasantly as John said this. He is a real good fellow, and takes all John's
chaff with the utmost good-humour; but, in justice to him, I must say that, although he sticks
to his national drink like a true Scot, I have never once seen him any the worse for it. He
knows his limitations, and always keeps within them.

CHAPTER X

THE DISCOVERY OF LINES UPON MARS--THE GREAT MARTIAN CONTROVERSY

After the little interlude with M'Allister, I resumed my remarks by saying that "The year 1877,
so memorable for the near approach of Mars and the discovery of its two tiny satellites, was
also the year in which a still more important discovery was made--a discovery, in fact, which
has much enlarged our knowledge of the planet, and has also resulted in an entire revision
of our conceptions respecting it.

"An Italian astronomer, Signor Schiaparelli, took advantage of the favourable position of Mars
to observe it very carefully, and some time afterwards announced that he had seen upon its
surface a number of very fine lines which had not previously been noticed, and these he had
carefully charted upon his drawings and maps.

"This announcement started one of the most acrimonious discussions that the astronomical world
has ever known; and although it is now over thirty years since it commenced, astronomers are
still divided into two parties--one accepting the lines as demonstrated facts, the other either
denying their existence, or endeavouring to explain them away by various more or less ingenious
or fanciful theories.

"When Signor Schiaparelli's statements and drawings were first discussed, it was declared by
some to be quite impossible that these fine lines could really have been seen by him: either
his eyes must have been overstrained, or he claimed to see more than he actually did see. So
warm did the discussion become that he soon withdrew from it altogether, but devoted himself
to his work. As time went on, he not only verified his previous discoveries, but found numerous
fresh lines, all of which appeared to run straight and true over many hundreds of miles on
the planet.

"Milan then had a good clear atmosphere which was favourable for the observation of delicate
planetary markings, and other observers who were well situated were able to see and draw many
of the lines which Schiaparelli had discovered.

"It was, however, contended that such lines could not have any real existence, as it was asserted
that they were too straight. It is quite true that straight lines on a rotating globe would
appear curved when seen from some points of view, but if the objectors had carefully studied
complete sets of drawings, they would have seen that the lines did assume a curved form in
certain aspects of the planet.

"Then the very same people who denied the actuality of the lines because they were too straight,
eagerly took up a suggestion that they were not actually narrow lines, but the edges of diffused
shadings on the planet, apparently quite oblivious of the fact that the same objections must
apply to them. Moreover, if there was difficulty in accepting the actuality of narrow lines,
there must be immensely greater difficulty in believing that shadings could, in such a very
large number of cases, all end in straight lines many hundreds or thousands of miles long,
and always appear uniformly true, no matter upon what portion of the disc they might be seen,
and whatever might be the angle of illumination.

"Besides, only a small proportion of the lines are connected with shadings. The shadings are
more likely to be the result of the canals than the cause of the formation of illusory lines
in so many cases.

"I have listened to many of these discussions, and have often been much amused at the tangle
of inconsistencies in which some have involved themselves, by taking up fresh theories without
regard to their previous contentions.

"As time went on each opposition of Mars brought the discovery of fresh lines, and numerous
observers confirmed the reality of Schiaparelli's work.

"Professor Lowell, the well-known American astronomer, took up the study of Mars in a most
thorough and systematic manner, and has since practically made it his life's work. An observatory
was built at Flagstaff, Arizona, far away from towns and smoke, at an altitude of over 6000
feet above the sea-level, the site being specially selected on account of the clearness and
purity of its atmosphere; while the observatory, being high up above the denser and more disturbed
strata of air, afforded the most favourable situation possible for the proper observation of
delicate planetary detail.

"There he continued the work which Schiaparelli had commenced, and, together with the colleagues
with whom he has been associated, has, by long-continued and most systematic work, added greatly
to our knowledge of Mars. Year after year has seen the addition of more lines on our maps of
the planet, whilst many interesting discoveries have been made--one being that some of the
fine lines were double, the second line always being equidistant from the first one throughout
its whole length, no matter whether the lines were straight or curved.

"This caused a further outcry of objection. The observers were told that they had been overstraining
their eyesight so that they 'saw double,' and also that they had been using telescopes not
properly focussed. Such objections seem almost beyond argument, for no practical observer could
use an improperly focussed instrument without at once discovering the defect.

"Besides, if the double lines were the result of eye-strain, or any other defect which might
cause such illusions, all the lines would have been seen double, or at least all the lines
running at the same angles; but as a matter of fact only a very small proportion of the lines
were so seen, and it made no difference what position they occupied on the disc, or at what
angles they were presented. Some of the doubles were, in fact, curved lines; and another point
was that in some cases they were only doubled at certain seasons of the year.

"Other observers who saw the lines were charged with having studied the maps of Schiaparelli
and Lowell until they had become obsessed with the lines, and when they looked through the
telescope simply fancied they saw them!

"In England our atmospheric conditions are seldom really favourable to the proper seeing of
the finer detail, and the very faint lines cannot be seen at all. The lines that are visible
do not appear thin and sharp as they do to observers in more favoured climes, but rather as
diffused smudgy lines, and so they are drawn by the observers. On a few occasions of exceptionally
good seeing they have, however, been seen and drawn as finer and sharper lines.

"The visibility of the lines was, however, confirmed by so many observers of known integrity,
and from so many different parts of the world, that the objectors were at last compelled to
abandon the position they had occupied. Then a new theory was started, viz. that the lines
were actually seen but did not actually exist, being really optical illusions arising from
the apparent integration, or running together in linear form, of various small disconnected
markings which were viewed from beyond the distance of clear seeing.

"The manner in which it was sought to prove the correctness of this theory appeared to me at
the time (and still does so) as most weak and fallacious, and certain experiments I made only
strengthened that opinion. However, scientific people accepted it as proof.

"In making this experiment schoolboys were seated in rows at different measured distances from
a map of Mars, which they were told to copy. The map showed all the well-known dark patches
and markings, but no fine lines. About the places where some of those lines should have been,
dots, curls, wisps, &c., were inserted at irregular distances, and not always exactly where
the lines should have been shown. The inevitable result was that the boys who were too far
away to see clearly saw these small markings as continuous straight lines, and so drew them.
In the circumstances they could not do otherwise; for if sufficient marks were inserted nearly
in alignment, they would necessarily produce the effect of lines.

"These drawings were then acclaimed as proving that the lines seen on Mars were only discrete
markings viewed from beyond the distance of clear seeing, and that the network of lines seen
and drawn by so many skilled and careful observers of Mars had no actual existence upon the
planet. Thus all their work was completely discredited.

"Experiments like these could not possibly prove any such thing, because it would be easy to
insert in a map various markings which, when viewed from a distance, would appear to form almost
any design that one might choose to depict. Any desired effect might thus be obtained; and
I have seen many pictures so formed in which the illusion was perfect. When viewed from a distance
each appeared to be a picture of something entirely different from what was seen when it was
viewed from a near standpoint.

"The linear illusion could not arise from a mere multiplicity of faint scattered markings,
but all the more conspicuous markings must be in alignment. It seems impossible to imagine
that so many hundreds of lines on Mars could thus fortuitously be formed by illusion, and every
line be connected to some definite point at each end.

"To argue that because illusory lines can be formed as in these experiments proves that the
Martian lines are also illusions is claiming far too much. For instance, if I drew what was
actually a map of South Africa, and was so seen at close quarters, yet in consequence of the
insertion of numerous small marks and shadings formed a portrait of Lord Blank when viewed
from a distance, it would be very far indeed from proving that every map of South Africa was
a portrait of the noble lord, or that his portraits were all maps of South Africa.

"Moreover, as I myself saw, some of the boys were so unskilled that they had not even drawn
correctly the outlines of the dark patches about which there was no dispute.

"It is obvious that such erroneous and unreliable work as this could not be regarded as evidence
upon which truly scientific argument could be founded for the purpose of deciding such a contentious
question; yet mainly upon this very slender and unreliable evidence meetings of two of our
leading astronomical associations endorsed the illusion theory, and for a long time it held
the field.

"M. Flammarion made some similar experiments in Paris, and even inserted spaced dots along
the sites of canal lines on the map put up as a copy, yet not one boy drew a canal. M. Flammarion
evidently was rather too sparing with his dots and marks.

"A long series of experiments was carefully carried out by Professor Lowell and his colleagues,
from which it was deduced that if in any line on Mars there was a gap of sixteen miles in length,
our present telescopes would suffice to discover it. It is most improbable that in so many
hundreds of lines, several of which are over two thousand miles in length, there would not
be numerous gaps over sixteen miles long if the lines were made up of separate markings.

"Yet it is found that every line is perfect in its continuity, and not only so, but uniform
in width throughout its whole length, which would be impossible if the lines were made up of
separate markings not in alignment.

"The illusion theory may, however, to a certain extent be correct, but this will prove exactly
the opposite of what its supporters contend. It appears to have been quite overlooked that
as there are so many thousands of miles of canals it is utterly impossible to suppose that
the vegetation, which is all that we really see, is continuous and without breaks. It would
indeed be most extraordinary if there were not very many long stretches of land which, for
some natural or utilitarian reasons, were either bare of vegetation or so sparsely covered
as to appear bare when viewed from the earth through a telescope. Some parts of the canals
in hilly or rocky ground may pass through tunnels, and thus cause apparent gaps in the lines;
or ground may be incapable of bearing vegetation, or purposely left fallow.

"It would, therefore, be no matter of surprise if more powerful instruments should, in moments
of perfect seeing, reveal numerous apparent gaps in the lines. So far from proving they were
not canals, such gaps are exactly what we should expect to find in connection with canals;
and the lines would probably appear as irregular light and dark patches in alignment, because
we do not see the canals themselves, but only the vegetation on the land which they traverse.
Probably there are also many oases yet to be discovered along the canal lines.

"As I have already stated, it was asserted that the double lines were illusions arising from
the causes already mentioned, with the probable addition of eye-strain and bad focussing. Assuming
that the single lines are, as it is declared, illusions, we are confronted with the assumption
that the doubles are illusions of illusions, and this is more than I can follow, it seems so
improbable.

"Professor Lowell has devoted some sixteen years to close and continuous observation of Mars
whenever it has been in a position to be observed, and many thousands of drawings have been
made, the results being plotted down on a globe. In reply to the statements of occasional observers
that the lines cannot be seen, he testifies that they are not difficult to see; and that any
one who saw them in his exceptionally good atmosphere, and through his instruments, could have
no doubt of their actuality. He rather caustically, but very justly, remarks in one of his
books that his many years of personal experience in viewing these lines almost entitle him
to an opinion on the subject equal to those who have had none at all!

"The proof of their existence, however, no longer rests only on the corroborative evidence
of other observers, for, after years of experiment, Professor Lowell and his staff have succeeded
in taking direct photographs of Mars, which show several of the disputed lines. One would have
thought that would settle the question, but, although some of the more reasonable of the objectors
have been convinced by the evidence of the photographs, many others still maintain their attitude
of scepticism, especially those who have not themselves seen the photographs. They declare
it to be quite impossible for any such photographs to be taken, because our atmosphere would
prevent any photographic definition of fine detail on such small pictures; yet about ten thousand
of these tiny photographs were taken during the near approach of Mars in 1907.

"As I possess a number of these photographs I can testify that they do show some of the lines,
and persons who disbelieved have expressed surprise at their excellence. Success was only obtained
by means of specially sensitised plates, for the ordinary photographic rays and ordinary plates
were found useless, whilst the process of photographing so small and distant a planet is surrounded
with difficulties.

"Even when attached to a telescope giving an equivalent focal length of nearly 150 feet, the
camera only gives a very tiny image of the planet. The lighting of the small image is faint,
but if additional power were used on the telescope to obtain a larger image, then its light
must be still fainter, and thus a longer exposure would be required to obtain a picture on
the plate. As Mars moves in its orbit and rotates on its axis, and our atmosphere is subject
to continual movement and disturbance, any long exposure would result in a blurred picture,
which would show no fine detail. So, as a short exposure is essential, only a small picture
can be taken. Nothing is gained by any subsequent great enlargement of the picture, because
the grain of the film of a quick plate is coarse; and, if enlarged, this also blurs out the detail.

"Having regard to all the difficulties which had to be surmounted, it was a great and undoubted
triumph to secure detail on such tiny photographs of this distant world. As time goes on improvements
will probably be effected and still better pictures secured; but enough has now been accomplished
to prove that the lines cannot be illusions, but really exist upon the planet. If the eye can
be deceived in this respect, the camera cannot.

"When Professor Lowell first took up the work of Martian observation only 113 lines had been
discovered by Schiaparelli, but the number has gradually been added to from time to time, as
the result of the work done at Flagstaff Observatory and elsewhere, and has now reached a total
of considerably more than 600, the lines forming a fine network extending all over the planet.

"Mr. Slipher, who accompanied Professor Todd's expedition to Alianza in Chili, at the opposition
of 1907, together with the observers at Flagstaff, discovered no less than 85 new canals, including
some doubles, nearly all being in the more southern portions of the southern hemisphere.

"In addition to the discovery of so many fine lines, we also owe to the acumen of Professor
Lowell a reasonable explanation of what they really are. Schiaparelli termed them 'canali,'
an Italian term for 'channels,' but, popularly, this soon became corrupted into the term 'canals,'
and this has turned out to be a much more appropriate word than such corruptions usually are.

CHAPTER XI

THE GREAT MARTIAN CONTROVERSY (continued)

"As the result of very long continued and systematic observation of the lines on Mars, together
with carefully plotting them down on a globe, it was found that every line was continuous,
uniform in width, and went straight from one definite point to another, not one breaking off
in open space. Moreover, on being tested, nearly all were found to be arcs of great circles,
and therefore the shortest possible lines which could connect any two points on a sphere. This
fact strongly supports the idea that they are not natural but artificial formations. For a
long time the lines were only seen on the red, or lighter, parts of the planet, but in 1892
an expedition was sent from Harvard Observatory to Arequipa, in Peru, for the purpose of observing
the planet under very favourable conditions, and this resulted in important discoveries. Professor
W.H. Pickering, who accompanied the expedition, was fortunate enough to observe that the canal
lines extended over the dark or blue-green portions of the disc; and later observations have
proved that this is the case all over the planet, and the lines are visible from pole to pole.

"These observations also led Professor Pickering to the important conclusion that all the dark
areas were covered with vegetation, and that the bright or red areas were deserts, the colour
of the latter being exactly that of our deserts when viewed from a great distance. Herschel's
idea had been that the red areas were land covered with vegetation of a red colour, and that
the dark areas were seas.

"It was, however, now quite clear that permanent lines in such numbers and length could not
exist in seas; and other observations have demonstrated that, instead of appearing smooth and
uniform as water would, these areas are full of detail and variations, and that they pass through
all the changes of colour, according to seasons, that land covered with vegetation does upon
our earth. In the winter time, when the land is fallow, it appears brown or chocolate colour;
in the spring, the time of early vegetation, it becomes a pale blue-green tint; as the season
advances the blue-green becomes darker; whilst in the autumn it tends to a light brown, and
at length changes into chocolate colour in the winter. This has been carefully noted time after
time when the planet has been in a position to be observed; and the same sequence of change--which
can only be associated with vegetation--has always occurred.

"It may, therefore, now be accepted as a proved fact that the dark areas are land upon which
vegetation grows, ripens, and dies away according to the seasons of the Martian year.

"Professor Pickering also made another discovery, viz. a large number of isolated, round, darkish
spots, most of which occurred where canal lines joined or crossed each other. Some of these
had been seen much earlier by other observers, but Professor Pickering was the first to see
them in large numbers and call attention to them. He termed them 'lakes,' but later discoveries
from continued observation showed that they were not water, and they were then given the name
of 'oases.' Some are seventy or eighty miles in diameter, and nearly two hundred are now marked
on the maps. They mostly occur in certain definite positions--in the point where single canals
join or cross each other, or, in the case of double canals, between the two lines. It has been
noted that they undergo the same seasonal changes as the dark areas do, but only as regards
the outer portion of the circle, which gradually fades away in the latter part of the Martian
year; whilst the central portion becomes fainter but does not disappear.

"Of course it was at once declared that these oases were illusions which would naturally be
seen where two lines crossed each other and were viewed from a great distance. But they only
occur in some cases at such crossings, and there are many junctions without any oases. Moreover,
they are also seen between the double canals where there are no junctions nor anything which
could give rise to illusion.

"At Flagstaff Observatory it was also noted that the canal lines themselves underwent seasonal
changes. Those viewed during the winter season were always so faint as to be scarcely discernible,
but at the period when vegetation would naturally begin to grow they became more easily visible,
and still more distinct as the season advanced.

"Then Professor Lowell announced his great conception, which has given rise to so much controversy,
and has also been much misunderstood and misrepresented.

"Briefly, his conclusions were as follows:--'Science teaches that a small planet will become
cool and develop life much sooner than a large one. Similarly a small iron casting will become
cool in a few days, whilst a large one will be many weeks or even months in cooling. A small
planet will also develop more rapidly, and reach its final stage when it will be incapable
of supporting life, very long before a larger planet like our earth will have reached that
stage. Applying this to Mars, a much smaller planet than our earth, it is scientifically reasoned
that Mars has passed through nearly all its stages and is approaching its last. It has lost
much of its atmosphere, all its large bodies of water, such as oceans or seas, and, as regards
the land, that has become levelled by erosion, and about five-eighths of the whole area has
become desert.

"'Science also shows that in such circumstances rain would cease to fall over the larger part
of the planet, but the water vapour in the air would be carried by natural circulatory currents
of air to the polar regions, and there deposited in the form of snow or hoarfrost, thus forming
a large snow-cap at the north pole in one season of the year, and a still larger snow-cap at
the south pole in the opposite portion of the year.

"'These snow-caps would begin to melt in the spring as soon as the tilt of the planet brought
the pole to the position where the sun would take effect, and would continue during the early
summer. As there is no permanent glaciation on a planet which has lost its water, the snow-cap
would melt to a very large extent, and the resultant water must go somewhere.

"'The inhabitants of the planet could not exist without water, and their land would become
entirely desert unless supplied with moisture. It will, therefore, be seen that the only thing
possible, as a means of self-preservation, would be for them to make channels to carry the
water in the most economical way from the poles to the parts where it was needed. Unless they
found a means of doing this death stared them in the face. What greater incentive could there be!'

"This is what Professor Lowell is convinced has actually been accomplished upon Mars, with
the result that there is a network of canals all over the planet by which water is conveyed
from each pole and carried across from one hemisphere into the other. The lines seen show where
the canals are, but not the canals themselves, because they are too narrow to be seen. The
lines really are broad bands of vegetation irrigated by the canals which run through them,
hence the seasonal changes which have been noted in their colour.

"All this seems very reasonable, deduced as it is from scientific fact and from the many different
things which have actually been seen and confirmed by many thousands of observations, but it
has met with the most bitter opposition on the part of many astronomers, both professional
and amateur. Theory after theory has been brought forward with the object of disproving the
existence of the canal lines; some of these, such as eye-strain, diplopia, bad focussing, illusion,
and imagination, have already been mentioned.

"Proofs of the reality of the lines having become too strong for most of the objectors, they
then turned their endeavours to the overthrowing of the theory that the lines were canals,
suggesting that they were all of natural origin.

"Amongst these suggestions it was stated they were edges of shadings, natural growths of long
lines of trees and vegetation, cracks in the surface of the planet or foldings caused by contraction,
trap-dykes, &c., but not one of these suggestions will bear investigation. I have already pointed
out the impossibility of shadings having straight edges for thousands of miles in so many hundreds
of cases. It is equally impossible to imagine natural growths of trees and vegetation in bands
of uniform width and thousands of miles long, and nearly all forming arcs of great circles.

"They cannot be cracks, for they are of uniform width throughout their length, and always run
direct from one definite point to another, no matter how distant apart they may be.

"Cracks, such as we see on the moon, though sometimes straight, are usually wide near the centre
of disturbance which caused them, and narrow off to a fine point, and often end anywhere out
in open space; moreover, they are usually very irregular in width, and take a zig-zag course
instead of a straight one. This, as I have said, is not the case with a single canal line on
Mars. If they were cracks, some at least would be irregular and end in open space. The same
remarks apply in the case of foldings or ridges.

"The oases, once declared to be illusions, were then said to be large openings in the soil
at the junctions of the cracks; or they might be craters, and so on. But this does not account
for the appearance of the oases between twin canals, or the systematic manner in which the
canals effect a junction with the oases. Again, therefore, the theory fails to fit the known
circumstances of the case.

"Dr. A.R. Wallace rather favours the idea of natural cracks or faults in the surface of the
planet; and suggests that the outer crust of Mars may be a crystalline or similar formation
which would lend itself to the production of numerous cracks in the surface. He points to a
few cracks and faults in the earth's surface, all of small size, as confirming this idea; but
the cases he adduces only seem to prove that there is on our earth absolutely no natural formation
which can in any way properly be compared with the lines seen on Mars. Moreover, there seems
to me no ground whatever, beyond the needs of the theory, for supposing that the crust of Mars
is of a crystalline nature, or such as would predispose to the formation of cracks. On the
contrary, all the evidence is against it--the existence of vegetation in some parts, the general
appearance of the red portion, and the large clouds of sand which have been observed, all being
indicative of a sandy formation, in the red portion at least.

"The theory also fails to take into consideration the most important point of all, viz. that
every canal runs direct from one definite point to another, perhaps over two thousand miles
distant. In very many cases numerous lines connect with one small area, or even with one point.
The Lucus Ascræus has no less than seventeen of these canals connecting with it, and appears
to be a kind of Martian Clapham Junction.

"The deserts on Mars serve the same purpose as our seas, as lines of communication may be established
anywhere across them. A map of Mars, showing the canals converging towards some one part, bears
a great resemblance to our maps showing the courses taken by vessels from different parts all
converging upon one seaport.

"Much has also been said about the widths of the canals as rendering them impossible of construction,
so let us consider how wide they are.

"The lines seen vary from two or three miles up to nearly thirty miles in width; but there
are only one or two of the latter, and the majority are five to ten miles wide. Notwithstanding
Professor Lowell's repeated statements that they represent bands of vegetation, these widths
are often referred to as the widths of his canals. I have frequently seen them described as
'fifty miles,' a 'hundred miles,' and even as 'hundreds of miles' wide. These exaggerations
usually appear in newspapers and journals, and evidently arise from insufficient knowledge
on the part of the writers.

"Owing to the small gravitation upon Mars, the work of digging canals would be extremely easy
upon that planet (even assuming the Martians to be without machinery) as compared with the
same work on our earth; but there is neither necessity nor reason for the construction of such
enormously wide canals as those mentioned. Moreover, it seems to me that very wide canals would
defeat the object for which they were constructed; and Professor Lowell does not regard the
widest lines as being canals. They may be remains of natural channels or arms of the seas,
as they do not run so straight as the canal lines proper.

"Our people," I remarked, "have argued both against the possibility of constructing such canals
and of forcing water along them, because, as they say, none of our engineers would be able
to accomplish such work. I certainly have more confidence in the skill and capabilities of
our engineers, and doubt not that if they were required to solve a similar problem they would
overcome all difficulties and carry out the work successfully."

"I'm with you there, mon!" exclaimed M'Allister.

"I may remind you," I proceeded, "that when steam navigation was first mooted, it was confidently
asserted that no steamship would ever succeed in crossing the Atlantic Ocean, and I can remember
when it was learnedly demonstrated that it would be quite impossible to construct a canal across
the Isthmus of Suez! How small the prophets must have felt when the work was accomplished!

"I am afraid it is usual to take a very limited view of all such matters, and we judge of them
entirely from what we know ourselves, never looking ahead, as it is considered unscientific
to go beyond our own knowledge. Because something may be quite impossible to us, it does not
follow that it is impossible to more advanced people.

"Think how many great scientific facts which are quite commonplace at the present time were
unknown and undreamed of even so recently as our grandfathers' time! Who then can forecast
what may be possible five hundred years, or even a century hence; and who will be bold enough
to fix a limit to the possibilities of science! I freely admit I am an optimist in these matters."

"I think, Professor," said John, "that your view is really the more scientific of the two.
While it may not be possible accurately to forecast all the facts, intelligent anticipations
may logically be formed from a survey of our own past history."

Proceeding, I then remarked, that "Another discovery made at Flagstaff Observatory was that
at the ends of certain canals, where they joined the dark areas, were small V-shaped dark markings
which Professor Lowell has termed carets. From their occurrence in these positions only, and
from his observations of the peculiar and extremely systematic manner in which the canals,
especially the double ones, run into the carets, he has concluded that they must serve some
special and important purpose.

"We have been told upon high authority that the carets are illusions, and could not possibly
be seen, as the planet is so distant from us. But the fact remains that they have frequently
been seen and drawn; they always appear the same, and are never seen except in connection with
canals which join dark areas. These dark areas, I may say, are believed to be the beds of ancient
seas, from which the water has long since departed.

"In connection with all these disputed lines and markings it has often been urged that though
they are seen through comparatively small telescopes they are not seen when a very large instrument
is used; and it has also been said that observers, knowing what they wished to see, simply
imagined they did see it. We have, however, abundant proof that both these arguments are unreliable
and incorrect.

"It is a well-known fact that when a faint object has been once seen through a telescope, others
are able to see it through a smaller instrument. This was the case with the satellites of Mars,
which have been seen with much smaller instruments than that used to discover them.

"The fact that such objects are really seen is proved by the observer marking them on his drawing
in their correct position, although they may have moved from the point at which they were originally
seen.

"I will give you an illustration of the ease with which it is possible to overlook something
that should be clearly visible to you, yet it is not seen by you until your attention is called
to it by some one else. Almost every one has had some such experience:--

"You may have on the front of your coat a small stain, or grease-spot, in a position where
you could plainly see it, yet might wear the coat for days or even weeks in complete unconsciousness
of the existence of the stain until some one pointed it out to you. After that you cannot look
at the coat without seeing the stain, and it becomes so persistently obtrusive that you are
compelled to have it removed. There is, however, no imagination about your seeing the mark."

John here said to me: "Professor, I noticed you said that many who do not believe in the actuality
of the lines and markings on Mars frequently refer to the fact that, while they are stated
to be seen through small telescopes, they are quite invisible through a very large instrument,
and they regard this as proving that the lines or markings do not exist. Is there not something
in this argument?"

"Well, John," I replied, "the argument sounds not only plausible, but reasonable, and inexperienced
persons might use the argument, believing it to be a sound and good one. I must, however, confess
that I have been surprised to see this argument used by persons who must surely know that there
is no weight in it at all.

"It is well known to all practical observers, and indeed to all who have studied optical matters,
that, for several reasons, very large telescopes are quite unsuited for the observation of
fine planetary detail.

"The real advantage of these enormous instruments lies in their great 'light-grasp,' which
enables observers to see very faint points of light, such as small satellites of planets, faint
stars, double stars, distant comets, or nebulæ, which could not be seen with a smaller instrument
necessarily having less 'light grasp.' Yet this very excess of light, which is the great advantage
of a large instrument, is one of the things that spoils the definition of faint planetary details;
it drowns them all out, or 'breaks them up.'

"Again, these large instruments are much more liable than smaller ones to what is termed 'chromatic'
and 'spherical' aberration; and this also is detrimental to definition. No very large refractor
is entirely free from these defects.

"Another objection is that, in using such large and long-focussed instruments, a much higher
power must necessarily be employed than in the case of smaller instruments. This high power
magnifies all the little movements and disturbances in our atmosphere to exactly the same extent
as it magnifies the object looked at, with the result that these disturbances blur out all
fine detail. The canal lines on Mars could never be seen in such circumstances. If the object
were looked at through a smaller instrument, with lower power, it might be fairly well seen,
for the atmospheric disturbances would not be magnified to such an extent as to spoil definition.

"There are very few nights in the year when these immense instruments can be used to advantage
on the planets, whilst a smaller instrument might define well three or four nights out of every
six. It is on record that the user of Lord Rosse's great reflector stated that there were only
about three nights in the year when its best definition could be obtained; and its use has
produced very meagre results, compared with what had been anticipated.

"It is also almost universally recognised that in using these great instruments, whether for
photography or for the visual observation of fine detail, it is absolutely necessary to stop
down the aperture to a very large extent, by reducing it to about 12 inches in diameter or
even less. The big telescope is thus really converted into a small one of long focus.

"There is, in addition, the acknowledged fact that nearly every discovery of new detail on
planets has been made with a comparatively small telescope, although the same objects may have
been under constant observation for years with big telescopes. The new detail was never noticed
until after it had been seen with a smaller instrument, and perhaps only then when atmospheric
conditions were unusually good.

"As an instance, I may mention that the faint 'crape ring' of Saturn was seen by Dawes when
using an 8-inch aperture to his telescope; yet it had never been discovered with the large
instruments, although the planet is one that is under constant observation when in a position
to be seen.

"I could give innumerable instances of similar cases, but enough has been said to show that
because some object cannot be seen in a very large telescope, it is no proof at all that the
object does not exist.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Amid the chaos of varied, and often self-contradictory, theories respecting Mars--some abandoned
by their own authors; others in which facts and conditions had to be assumed for which there
was not only no evidence, but actual disproof by many recorded observations--Professor Lowell's
conceptions stand out clearly and boldly.

"They are all founded on the results of prolonged and systematic work in the observation of
the planet, not only by himself but by numerous colleagues--work in which many of his critics
have had little or no experience under favourable conditions. His conceptions fit in with observed
facts with all the accuracy of the pieces in a child's picture puzzle; whilst his logical deductions
are supported and enhanced by his wide knowledge of physical science and planetology.

"Yet, as I have both heard and read, his views and discoveries have been described as 'sensational,'
'fanciful,' 'fairy tales,' and by other terms which I would rather not quote.

"Underlying some of these objections there seems to be an idea that some reason must be found
for opposing anything and everything which would tend to indicate the possibility of intelligent
life existing upon any other planet than the earth; although it is difficult to understand
why such a possibility should be so abhorrent. It is a view that does not commend itself to
me, but I need not say more on that point.

"Nicola Tesla, the great electrician, is, however, convinced of the existence of life upon
Mars, and he has expressed in very emphatic terms his opinion of the opposite view, which,
however, I refrain from quoting. He says that Mars must have passed through all terrestrial
changes and conditions, and that the whole arrangement of the canals, as depicted by Professor
Lowell, would seem to be artificially designed. He then goes on to state that he has discovered
electrical disturbances on the earth which must have come from Mars and no other planet.

"In the treatment he has received from some of his smaller critics (whose vehemence is usually
in inverse proportion to their knowledge of his work and writings) Professor Lowell has had
an experience similar to that of many other observers who have done good work.

"If an observer be blessed with the happy combination of good eyesight, a good instrument,
and favourable atmospheric conditions, and publishes writings and drawings showing that he
has seen something which has not previously been observed, he at once becomes a target for
captious critics who seem to be under the impression that all astronomical knowledge begins
and ends with themselves, and that anything they cannot see does not exist. It matters not
that the observer attacked may have given months to particular observations where his critics
have only spent a few hours: he is told that his drawings are incorrect and do not represent
the planet; that they may be works of art, but do not represent facts; that he possesses a
very vivid imagination, and so on. This procedure may be persisted in until at last the victim
either turns and rends his critics or ceases to publish his drawings or records, to the great
loss of many others who take an intelligent interest in his work.

"Professor Lowell's telescope is over 32 feet in focal length, and has an object glass of excellent
quality 24 inches in diameter, the work of the celebrated Alvan Clark. Thus, whilst not one
of the giants, it is not exactly what would be termed a small instrument, and few indeed of
the critics have anything approaching it in capacity, while none enjoys the advantage of such
ideal conditions in the situation of his observatory.

"I was therefore much amused in reading an effusion by one critic who, in discussing the question
of the canal lines, remarked that he could not accept 'these one-man discoveries,' oblivious
of the fact that they are the discoveries of many observers. He then very naïvely gives the
illuminating information that his astronomical experience is confined to the 'observation'
of the moon for about six months, by the aid of a 1-1/4-inch hand-telescope! Surely, when confronted
with a critic of such vast experience and so wonderfully equipped, Professor Lowell must retire
discomfited from the field!"

At the conclusion of my remarks both John and M'Allister expressed their thanks, saying that
"Now they were informed as to the points on which our scientists were not agreed, they would
look forward with still greater interest to our arrival at our destination, for they were as
anxious as I was to solve the mysteries of the red planet."

CHAPTER XII

WE ARE MYSTERIOUSLY PREVENTED FROM APPROACHING MARS

The days then passed uneventfully until at last the long-looked-for day arrived, and on the
24th September we were so close to Mars that we hoped to be able to land on the planet by two
o'clock in the afternoon. We made ourselves a little sprucer than usual, as we wished to do
credit to our own world; and M'Allister wore his overalls to protect his clothes, although
our machinery was not nearly so messy to handle as steam-engines usually are.

We had already examined our three machine-guns so that they might be in readiness for any emergency,
if some of the ideas of which we had read as to the probable ferocity of the Martians should
prove correct. It had, however, been definitely agreed between us that the guns were only to
be used as a last resort to defend our lives against a wanton attack, and were to be kept out
of sight until they were really required. My own conception of the Martians was, however, a
very different one, though I thought it quite right to be prepared for anything which might happen.

As Mars was only about twenty-five miles distant, its surface details could be fairly well
seen through the clear thin atmosphere; and, with the aid of a glass, one question at least
was definitely settled--the numerous lines of vegetation were fairly continuous; but there
were no large canals to be seen, though we thought we could trace some narrow ones.

We could also see several rapidly moving specks in the sky, which, we suggested, might be air-ships
of some kind; but they were so far off and indistinct, that we were unable to arrive at a definite
conclusion.

Our speed having been gradually reduced, we were now only moving at the rate of twenty-five
miles an hour, and it was therefore time to decide on a landing-place. John and M'Allister
pointed out a conspicuous spot not very far from the centre of the visible surface of the planet,
John remarking that we should be about right if we landed there, because several canals converged
to it, and it must, therefore, be a place of some importance. On looking at the map we found
that it was marked as the Nodus Gordii, or "Gordian Knot"; so, really, it seemed an appropriate
landing-place for travellers who were desirous of solving mysteries.

"Very well, then," I said, "we'll land there if you like, but I had rather a fancy for a different
spot, which is on the Sinus Titanum. It is that place over there, near the point where the
vegetation curves down in both directions," I remarked, as I pointed out the spot.

"Your place is rather nearer to the equator, and is probably pretty warm; but really it does
not matter where we land so long as we arrive on the planet. Your votes are two to my one;
so, as you have a thumping majority, go ahead, M'Allister, for the place you have chosen! We
will see whether we can cut the Gordian Knot, if we cannot undo it!"

He accordingly directed his course towards the chosen spot; but we had not proceeded very far
before everything below us suddenly disappeared, being quite blotted out by something of an
ochre tint, which entirely obscured our view of the country.

"Professor," exclaimed M'Allister, "what is the matter? I cannot see where we are going!"

"I can guess what it is," I replied; "we have run into one of those sand-clouds I told you
of the other evening, and until we get through, or it passes away, we shall see nothing else.
Perhaps we had better go on very slowly."

We went on accordingly, but instead of our getting through it, the cloud seemed to become denser
and denser. However, we still pressed on, and, after what seemed quite a long time, we emerged
into somewhat clearer air, although there was still a thin yellow cloud below us. Our course
had been well maintained, for we seemed to be within ten miles of our destination, which we
could just make out through the thin dust-cloud.

Presently M'Allister called out to me, "Professor, I don't know what is wrong, but the machinery
is slowing down so much that I am afraid we shall soon come to a dead stop! I have switched
on more power, but it does not seem to make any difference!"

"Well, try a little stronger current," I suggested; "but be careful not to overdo it, or we
may land upon Mars more suddenly than we shall like."

He tried this, but we had not moved more than a hundred yards when he found that farther progress
was impossible. So here we were, only a few miles from our destination, yet prevented by an
impalpable and unknown obstacle from reaching it!

We consulted together, but could find no solution of the mystery of this invisible barrier
to our progress. Then John suggested that, as we could not go straight on, we should try a
different course. So M'Allister altered our course a few points, and once more put on the speed
power, only to be brought to a standstill again after a very short spurt.

"My word!" he exclaimed, "I'll not be beaten like this. I've driven an old iron tramp-steamer
through scores of miles of thick seaweed out in the tropics, although the machinery was almost
worn out and the engines leaking at every joint. Here goes for full speed ahead!" he cried;
and, so saying, he switched on full power, quite heedless of my shout of "Do be careful, M'Allister,
or we shall all be smashed to pieces!"

"She's got to go!" he replied grimly, "smash or no smash! I never was beaten yet when pushing
my way through obstacles, and I'm too old a hand to be beaten now!"

However, he found he was beaten this time, for although he switched on the utmost power, it
refused to give any evidence of its existence, and we had to rely on our neutral power in order
to maintain our position in the air; though, as events proved, we could not have fallen.

The excitement and tension of the work had thrown M'Allister into a profuse perspiration; and,
as he stood moodily mopping his brow with his handkerchief, I heard him muttering and swearing
softly to himself. His blood was evidently up, for he made another desperate attempt to get
the Areonal to move forward, wrenching his switches with angry jerks, but it all proved labour
in vain.

"Well, what is to be done now, John?" I asked; "we have tried two courses without any effect!"

"I would suggest, Professor, that we should go up higher," he replied, "so as to enable us
to try again from another altitude, then, perhaps, we may pass above the obstacle."

"A good thought that, John!" I cried. So up we went, the machinery working all right now, and
our spirits rose as we soared higher; but, alas! after rising a few hundred yards, the machines
began to slow down, and soon stopped altogether.

"The de'il himself must be taking a hand in this business!" exclaimed M'Allister, "for this
beats the worst experience I ever had! We can't go up, we can't go down, and we can't go forward!
Whatever can we do, Professor? You're a scientific man; can't you suggest something which might
help?"

"It's a profound mystery to me, M'Allister," I replied, "but we certainly do not want to remain
hung up in space, so I suggest you should try several different courses. Surely, in some direction
we shall find a way out of this, and get to our destination."

This plan was tried, M'Allister doggedly setting his course first in one direction, then in
another, and trying to put on enough power to force the vessel along; but time after time we
came to a standstill after moving very slowly for a short distance.

"It looks as though we were to be hung up here indefinitely," said John. "We do not seem able
to get through this mysterious obstacle, whatever it may be, or whatever course we may try."

"Oh, we've not tried all points yet," I said. "We must not give up now we have got so close
to the object of our trip. Take a fresh course, M'Allister."

He took a fresh course, and another after that, but with exactly the same result.

I had never seen M'Allister in such a perturbed state before; he actually trembled all over
with the intensity of his feelings, and his face had an expression of grim determination such
as I should imagine might be seen on the face of a soldier at bay with his back to a wall,
and fighting for his life against overwhelming numbers of assailants.

"My word!" he exclaimed, "yon's Mars, and here's us, but it doesn't seem as if we should ever
come together. Losh mon, bonnie Scotland for ever! Here goes for another try!" and he switched
on the current again with a vicious pull.

We watched the machines with intense anxiety, wondering whether this new course would be any
better than the others we had tried--whether the machines would keep moving, or slow down and
stop as before.

No, we kept moving; and soon it was evident we were gaining speed rapidly.

"Hurrah, hurrah!" I cried in exultation. "We are doing it this time. Slow down, M'Allister,
we are going too fast now!"

"Scotland for ever!" he shrieked. "That did it, Professor!"

Strangely enough, John, usually the most excitable member of our party, was the calmest of
the three, and simply remarked quietly, "We've done it this time."

Yes, we had indeed done it this time, but our attention had been so taken up with our anxious
watching of the machines that none of us had noticed the direction we were taking.

We had passed entirely through the last remnant of the sand clouds, and it was now beautifully
clear, the thin air enabling us to see over a very large area of country. For the first time
since leaving the earth I now opened one of the doors very slightly indeed, and tested the
effect of the real Martian atmosphere.

It seemed to us rather sharp, with a taste something like that of a tonic medicine, but we
were all able to breathe it without any serious inconvenience, though at first it made us gasp.

Being assured there was no danger, I stepped out on to the platform and looked down, then started
back in utter astonishment, exclaiming to the others, "Why, look! look! See where we are!"

CHAPTER XIII

WE ARRIVE ON MARS AND MEET WITH A STARTLING SURPRISE

On hearing my excited exclamation, John and M'Allister at once stepped on to the platform and,
having looked down, were as much surprised as I was, for lo! we were heading direct for the
very spot which I had previously told them it was my fancy to land upon, and we were not three
miles away from it. We also saw a large town or city close by our proposed landing-place.

"One would almost imagine you were a magician, Professor," said John, "and that this affair
was all your work, and intended to secure a landing only where you thought proper."

"No, John," I answered, "I had nothing to do with our coming to this spot, and it is still
a mystery to me how it was we were not able to continue on our original course. The Gordian
Knot was too much for us after all."

"Well," John said, "it does not matter so long as we succeed in landing somewhere.

"By Jove!" he exclaimed suddenly, "look through the glass over there," pointing forwards as
he spoke. "I can see enormous crowds of people evidently watching our vessel."

It really was so, for, as we drew nearer and nearer, we could plainly see an enormous multitude
of people who seemed to be drawn up along the four sides of an immense square open space, and
they were all looking upwards towards the Areonal.

"Go and have a wash," I said to M'Allister, who had become quite grimy from the perspiration
occasioned by his exciting work just previously. "We will see to the machines, if necessary.
You must not descend amongst such an assembly of the natives with dirty hands and face."

"No," he replied, "Kenneth M'Allister will not disgrace old Scotland by doing such a thing
as that."

"Look sharp, then, M'Allister," John called after him; then, peeping down again, he pointed
to the farther side of the square, saying, "Look, Professor, I can see some pavilions over
there, and a large daïs affair, with a canopy over it! Look at the flags and banners too!"
he cried; "and there seems to be a large number of officials round the daïs. Perhaps that's
the Emperor of Mars sitting there!"

"I doubt that, John," I replied; "but probably he is some very important personage. How singular,"
I added, "that this spot which I selected should be the only one toward which we were able
to steer our vessel!"

"Well, we shall soon know something about that, I expect," replied John.

"Heh, mon!" exclaimed M'Allister, who had now rejoined us, looking spick and span, and with
his face shining from the fresh application of soap and water, "I believe they are all down
there watching for our arrival."

"It really looks like it," I said; "but how could they have known we were coming? So many scores
of thousands could not have been gathered together at a few minutes' notice. Well, you can
see to the machines, and take us gently down into that square."

"Professor," remarked John, "those people are not the big, ugly giants, nor the strange animals
which some of our folks have imagined the inhabitants of Mars to be. They appear a bit tall;
but, so far as I can see from here with the glass, they are a fairly good-looking lot. They
seem quite friendly too," he added, "and we shall not require those guns after all."

"No, certainly not," I replied, for now we were close enough to see that the people were waving
their hands towards us, and that children were waving bright-coloured flags. Just then a welcoming
shout came up to us from below, and we made friendly signs to the people in response. Then
they cheered us again and again, so we knew we could safely descend amongst them.

With skilful manoeuvring M'Allister soon brought our vessel down near the centre of the square,
and we were all ready to step out. John judiciously, but rather reluctantly, ceased smoking
and put away his pipe, not knowing what kind of reception he might have if he appeared amongst
these strangers with a pipe in his mouth.

A line of officials was arranged in a curve on each side of the daïs, and three of them came
towards us from either side, making signs of friendliness and welcome.

Seeing that we had nothing to fear, we at once stepped on to the ground and advanced to meet
them. In spite of weighted boots, which we had taken the precaution to wear, we had some difficulty
in walking properly; the gravitation being so much less than on the earth we had an irresistible
tendency to lift our feet much too high at every step we took.

As we met, each official made a very graceful and courteous inclination of his body, and we
all bowed in response. The first couple of officials then conducted me towards the daïs, and
I could now see that they were very much taller than myself, being quite seven feet nine inches
in height. They were, however, so splendidly proportioned that at first their stature had not
impressed me as being much above our ordinary standard; whilst their features were most beautifully
formed and regular, their complexions being very clear and fresh-looking.

One great peculiarity I noticed in all around us, and that was a peculiar soft and liquid glow
in their eyes, which seemed to light up the whole of their features, adding greatly to their
beauty and nobility of appearance.

As we approached the daïs, its occupant rose and came down the steps to meet us on the level
ground. Whatever his rank, he was a most magnificent figure, his whole bearing being serenely
dignified, majestic and impressive; whilst the expression upon his radiantly glowing countenance
was benign and intelligent beyond anything I had imagined or anticipated, though I had expected
much.

What followed, however, was surprising beyond measure, and it was startling and electrifying
in the suddenness with which it came upon me; for, as this splendid being moved towards me
with stately steps, and both hands outstretched in greeting, he said to me in English, "Welcome
to Mars! welcome to my country, oh stranger from a far-off world! In the name of the whole
people, I bid you welcome to our world, which we call 'Tetarta,' and to this city of Sirapion!"

CHAPTER XIV

I MAKE A MOST AMAZING DISCOVERY

I was so utterly taken aback at this most unexpected greeting in my own native language by
one who was apparently the chief inhabitant of this other world that I found it very difficult
to collect my thoughts and make a suitable reply.

I know I stammered out something; but, really, the more I tried to speak coherently the more
confused I became. This was indeed a very bad beginning for a visitor from a distant world
who wished to show to the best advantage in such an august presence, and before such a great
assemblage of the people; but it is useless to attempt to conceal the truth, however humiliating
it may be. Observing my embarrassment, however, the high personage smiled upon me pleasantly
and, after saying a few reassuring words, he gave a signal to the two officials, so we moved
aside for John and M'Allister to approach him.

The people, who had remained perfectly silent during this interview--if it can be dignified
by that term--now burst out into a volume of acclamation; but I must say that never upon our
earth had I seen a multitude so orderly. Everything seemed to be arranged and carried out with
military precision, yet I saw no one with arms or weapons nor anything indicating the presence
of either military or police. A few individuals, indeed, seemed to be giving some directions;
but whatever movements were made by the people were accomplished without crowding, pushing,
or jostling.

The Martians, too, evidently possessed fine artistic tastes and ideas, as well as excellent
judgment for colour effects. Colour was apparent in great variety in the dresses of both sexes,
yet nothing looked tawdry or overdone; for the whole mass presented a perfect and harmonious
blending of tints; while the designs on the banners were most artistic and effective, many
of the devices being of an astronomical character.

Whilst I was thus engaged in observing the people, one of the officials respectfully saluted
me and made a sign that I was to accompany him. I bowed and turned in the direction he indicated,
when he conducted me to one of the pavilions near the daïs, motioned me to pass through the
doorway, then, gravely saluting again, turned and went away.

On entering I found the pavilion fairly large and chastely decorated, but it had only one occupant,
who rose and saluted as I entered. He was a splendidly built young man, with a radiant countenance,
and when he advanced towards me with both hands outstretched, as the other high personage had
done, I noticed the same peculiar soft and luminous glow in his eyes that I had observed in
the other Martians.

As he took my hands within his, the young man looked straight into my eyes, his own beaming
with pleasure: then said in English, "Welcome, sir, most welcome to Mars!"

As he stood gazing at me and I at him, something in his features struck me as being familiar.
Where had I seen a face like that before? Then suddenly my thoughts flew back to a long-buried
past. Gracious heavens! I must be dreaming--it can never be! Still he gazed intently into my
eyes, seeming to penetrate my very soul; then I saw his expression change into one of ineffable
tenderness, and a beautiful smile rippled over his face.

All doubt was now at an end; this was indeed no dream, no hallucination. I had seen that face
before--seen those features in a less glowing and glorified form than that in which they now
shone upon me, and I knew where I had seen them!

Something, which I had vaguely imagined might just be within the bounds of possibility, was
now proved to be not only possible, but an accomplished fact.

Memories of the past rushed over me like swelling waves, and I seemed swept away by their surging
billows. I gazed and gazed, in almost incredulous wonder, at that glorious being who stood
there regarding me with an expression of ineffable affection; and my heart seemed to melt within
me as the re-awakened love for a long-lost form stirred every fibre of my body and thrilled
me through and through. Then, overwhelmed by the intensity of my emotions, I threw myself into
his arms, crying aloud, "Oh, Mark! my boy! my boy!"

CHAPTER XV

WHAT IS IN A NAME!--THE STORY OF MERNA

Yes, this glorious being was indeed the son whom I had lost on the earth! It would be utterly
impossible for me to describe the pathos and affection of that meeting with one whom I thought
had passed for ever out of my present life, or the intensity of my emotions and the overflowing
gratitude with which I gazed once more upon the face of my lost loved one, now so unexpectedly
and wonderfully restored to me. Such emotions as I then experienced are beyond description
by any pen or any tongue.

Whilst I was thus overwhelmed with emotion, my son exhibited the most dignified calm; yet his
words and sympathy were as tender as those of a mother soothing a suffering child. Having at
last brought me into a calmer state of mind, he said: "Yes, I, who am now called Merna, am
indeed he who was once your son upon the earth; and I am indeed he who in heart and soul is
at this moment as truly and affectionately your son, though living in another world, possessing
another body, and called by another name!

"Oh, how I have yearned for this meeting, and through what long years have I studied and striven
to bring it about!"

"You have brought it about, my boy!" I cried in amazement. "Why, how was that?"

"It is too long a story to narrate now," he replied, "for we have a duty to perform, and must
not stay here. We must now show ourselves to the people outside, who have long waited to greet
you! You shall hear more to-night; but, in the meantime, do not make known my identity to my
old friend, John, until after I have left you. You may tell him then and prepare him for our
meeting to-night."

I noticed when he was speaking that sometimes he lapsed into a phrase or two of the Martian
language, and that his English was spoken as it would be by a foreigner not fully acquainted
with our language.

Before we left the pavilion I asked him to tell me what office was held by the high personage
who had occupied the daïs on our arrival, and he explained that "he was Soranho, the present
ruler of Mars!"

"Emperor or King?" I inquired.

"We have neither of those dignitaries here," he answered. "He is the Chief of the General Council
of the entire world of Mars, elected to that office for a certain term by the whole body of
the people. But now we must not keep the Chief waiting any longer."

So we passed out together to join the Chief of the Council on the daïs, and, standing near
it, we saw John and M'Allister, who were gazing around with intense interest upon the assembled
multitude.

The Chief advanced to meet us, and greeted me with even more cordiality than at first, if that
were possible; then he said a few words of congratulation to Merna, and conducted us to the
front of the daïs.

The people were now all massed together before the daïs in long parallel lines, or ranks, and,
as the Chief brought me forward, there came a tremendous shout of welcome from the multitude.

The Chief made a brief speech in the Martian language (which of course neither I nor my two
companions understood), in which, as Mark afterwards explained to me, he gave a short account
of how I had arrived there from the earth with my two colleagues--the first inhabitants of
that world to set foot upon Mars! He told them that my coming was all owing to the devoted
love and influence of Merna, who in a former life upon the earth had been my son.

What Mark did not tell me was that the Chief had spoken in terms of very high appreciation
of the talents Mark had displayed, and of the success which had attended his great endeavour
to exert his influence over that immense distance of space which separated the two worlds,
and practically compel me to obey his wishes by undertaking a journey to Mars.

I learnt this afterwards from others, and found that a similar modesty and reticence was a
general characteristic of the Martians.

The acclamations of the people at the conclusion of the Chief's speech were almost deafening,
and I frequently distinguished the name of "Merna" amongst their ejaculations. Whatever was
the purport of the Chief's statement, it undoubtedly afforded the most intense satisfaction
to all those who heard it.

The assembly now began to disperse in the most orderly manner, many of the people gathering
round the Areonal, and apparently discussing with interest its construction and equipment,
but none pressed upon our little party. There was neither rude curiosity nor any embarrassing
attentions bestowed upon us, such as would have been so unpleasantly in evidence in any similar
circumstances upon the earth.

"Merna" asked me to be good enough to excuse him for the present as he had something to attend
to urgently; then he took leave of us for the time, remarking that we need have no anxiety
about the Areonal, for it would be perfectly safe and well looked after.

The Chief, and some of the officials to whom he now introduced us, then accompanied us to another
pavilion, where we partook of a little light refreshment. The chief then took his leave, after
promising that we should meet again to-morrow.

One of the officials informed me that a residence was in readiness for our occupation, and
that it was situated within a very short distance from where we stood. He asked whether we
would proceed there in an electric carriage, or whether we would prefer to walk; and, as we
wished to get accustomed to walking on our new world, we decided to go on foot.

We saw around us in every direction large numbers of flying machines of all descriptions, also
electric and other motors, which had conveyed the people to our landing-place. Most of the
motors were very light and elegant in appearance, and those intended for conveying only a single
person were but little larger than our motor tricycles. There was not the slightest noise from
the machinery, nor any fumes emitted like those we had found so great a nuisance on the earth.
The Martians had evidently overcome all such difficulties, if they had ever experienced them;
and their methods were doubtless far in advance of the use of evil-smelling petrol.

We noticed that very many of the people were walking in a manner which suggested that they
had a long journey before them; and, on mentioning this to the official in attendance, he told
us that walking was so easy on Mars, both on account of the small gravitation and the generally
level surface of the country, that most Martians preferred walking unless much pressed for
time, or the distance to be traversed was very great.

Though the sun was shining brilliantly the heat was not at all oppressive. As we passed along
we noticed that the buildings all stood separate from each other, open spaces or trees, flowers
or shrubs being around each of them.

We saw no evidence of overcrowding of buildings on small areas of land like there was in the
world we had left. Plenty of air and open space seemed to be the general rule, at least upon
this part of Mars.

After a very short walk we arrived at our dwelling, an elegant little building of white stone,
and only two storeys in height. There was such a general appearance of comfort and homeliness
about it, both inside and out, that M'Allister exclaimed: "Professor, I never thought coming
to Mars meant a reception like this. I rather expected to have had a fight when we landed!"

John, too, expressed his delight at the kind manner in which we had been received, then asked
me, "Who was that splendid young fellow who came out of the pavilion with me, and stood by
my side on the daïs?"

"I'll tell you presently, John," I replied, "after we have had some solid refreshment, and
are quite alone."

"One would think there was some mystery about him, Professor, by the way you speak," he answered.

"Perhaps there is a little more mystery in the whole affair than you dream of," I remarked.

"Anyhow," said John, "you seem very pleased over it, whatever it may be, Professor; for I never
saw you so delighted in your life as you have appeared during the last hour."

"Yes, John, I am indeed pleased," I replied, "and so will you be when you know what I know."

"You quite arouse my curiosity," he said; "still, I suppose I must wait a little longer to
be enlightened; but we came to Mars to find out secrets."

Just then we had to cease our conversation, for we were conducted into a room where we found
a most tempting looking repast ready for our delectation, and the attendants showed us to our
respective seats.

All the comestibles were fruits, nuts, or vegetables of various kinds, and I saw nothing there
in the nature of flesh meat. Some of the fruits and nuts resembled the products of our own
world, especially some of our eastern products; but most of them were entirely unknown to us,
though they all looked tempting and good.

We certainly did full justice to them, and were particularly attracted by some large bunches
of what were evidently Martian grapes, each grape being as large as one of our egg-plums. We
tried some of these, and found them most delicious, as indeed were all the other eatables we
consumed.

Though used to a meat diet, we found this meal most satisfying; the fruits being so refreshing
that we had neither desire nor need for drink, though it stood there ready for us if we wished
to take it. The attendants waited upon us assiduously, bringing us the various dishes in what
was apparently their regular order of courses.

Both John and M'Allister appeared to enjoy their first Martian meal as much as I did, and when
we adjourned to another room at its conclusion, were loud in their expressions of appreciation.

When this topic had died down, I thought the time had arrived to make the important disclosure
of the first results of our visit to the red planet.

They listened to my story in amazement, and with many exclamations of surprise; whilst, as
for John, he was almost beside himself with delight on learning that he would once more meet
his long-lost friend, and he rose and shook hands with me, at the same time warmly congratulating
me on my wonderful reunion with my son.

"Professor," said M'Allister, also rising and shaking my hand, "I'm as glad for your sake as
if I had found a son of my own!"

I thanked them both very heartily for their kind congratulations. Then John said to me--

"Professor, it is, without exception, the most extraordinary thing I ever heard of in my life;
but what strikes me as most singular about it is the strange coincidence connected with your
son's name!"

I did not understand this allusion to Mark, so asked what was the strange coincidence to which
he referred.

"Well, Professor," he said, "excuse me if I answer your question by asking another one. How
was it you gave your son the name of Mark, and what was the particular reason for your doing so?"

"No particular reason, John, so far as I am aware," I replied, "except that it always seemed
to me a good, plain, and honest sort of a name."

"Do you know the meaning of the name?" he then asked.

"Well, yes, I think so; for one thing, I believe it means 'polite,'" I said; "and another meaning
I have read is a 'hammer.' But really, John, I had no thought of meanings at all when I chose
that name for him."

"That only makes it all the more strange," John answered. "I have seen those meanings you mention
as attached to the name; but you seem to have quite missed the most important one of all, for
I can tell you, Professor, that the name 'Mark' means 'Son of Mars!' Now don't you see the
coincidence, when you find that he really has become a son of Mars!"

"Really, John," I answered, "I assure you that I never heard of that before; the coincidence
is, as you say, most singular and extraordinary; but, taking all things into consideration,
I am inclined to think there must be something more than coincidence when they work out like
this. You know your Shakespeare, John, and he says most truly: 'There's a divinity that shapes
our ends, rough-hew them how we will.' I will not repeat the hackneyed phrase about 'more things
in heaven and earth----'"

Just then Merna (as I suppose I must now call him, though he will always be "Mark" to me) arrived
amongst us, and I at once introduced him to John and M'Allister.

The meeting between the two old friends was delightful to witness, for both seemed over-joyed;
and they had so much to say to each other--so many questions to ask.

When the excitement had passed I asked Mark--you see I cannot help calling him by his old name--if
he could now furnish me with the further information he had promised, for I was longing to
hear all he had to tell.

"Yes," he replied, "I am quite ready, sir;" and then he proceeded to give us details of his
life upon Mars. It is too long a story to tell exactly as he told it--and sometimes he was
at a loss to express himself appropriately in English--but, shortly, it was as follows:--

His birth upon Mars, as we found from a comparison of dates, must have followed almost immediately
after his passing from the earth; and he said he thought that his two previous seizures were
probably abortive attempts of his spirit to depart earlier.

His Martian father was the brother of Soranho, the present Chief of the Council; both his father
and mother, however, had died when Merna was quite a child, and the Chief had since brought
him up like his own son, and was very much attached to him.

When Merna was still very young he was extremely fond of looking at the stars in the clear
Martian skies, being especially attracted by the earth, which was a very brilliant star in
those skies when the planet was in the most favourable position for viewing it. He used to
watch the earth pass through its various phases, the same as we see Venus; and as time went
on he had a strong feeling or intuition that, at some unknown period, he had been upon, or
in some way connected with, the earth!

This feeling became more and more intense, so that his thoughts were constantly directed towards
our world, and ultimately he became firmly convinced that he had once lived upon the earth.

He told us, amongst other things, that the Martians possess senses and powers which we do not
possess, and know nothing of. For instance, he said that any Martian of ordinary intelligence
always knew what was in the mind of any one with whom he was speaking; therefore any attempt
to prevaricate or mislead was folly and useless. In some cases this power extended over a long
distance, and the thoughts of others could be read as easily as when they were close at hand.
So for this reason, and not only because it is considered wrong, prevarication is never practised
on Mars.

Again, a Martian can transmit his thoughts over any distance upon the planet, and influence
thereby any one whom he could influence in ordinary conversation.

Some, who had given especial attention to the training and development of this faculty, could
even transmit their thoughts to other worlds; but the influence exercised in such cases depended
entirely upon whether the inhabitants of other worlds had attained not only a sufficient degree
of intelligence, but also the power to assimilate and make use of such outside influences,
either consciously or unconsciously.

Having become convinced that he had once lived upon the earth, his interest in it was greatly
intensified, and he felt a consuming desire to know more. He therefore used his utmost endeavours
to train and develop his faculties, with a view to finding out something more definite. His
uncle was informed of his desires in this respect, as well as of his reasons for them; and
he placed Merna under the tuition of two Martians who had developed these special faculties
to the highest degree then possible.

After pursuing this course of instruction and training for some time, Merna found that he was
gradually becoming more and more acquainted with details of his former life, and was also gradually
relearning the language he had spoken upon the earth.

Soon he was able to recall from his sub-consciousness the names of persons, and also of places
and things, with which he had been acquainted in his previous life; and what he thus learnt
he imparted to his uncle, his two teachers, and to a few other Martians.

The knowledge thus very slowly acquired and gradually built up led to a thirst for still further
knowledge; so he then tried to transmit his thoughts to the earth, and, if possible, to influence
me, his father, whom he felt certain was still living.

He paused in his statement, and then asked me to tell him "When I first thought of making a
trip to Mars, and also whether I had not, long before then, constantly been in the habit of
thinking about the planet?"

I told him the date when I first made the suggestion of our trip to John, and added that he
was quite right in supposing I had long previously been occupied with thoughts about Mars.

"Yes," he replied, "the date you give is quite correct. I had for years been trying to influence
you to take a deep interest in this planet, and after that to influence you to build a vessel
which would bring you here; and, on the very day you mention, I felt quite certain I had succeeded."

"My two friends then joined me in transmitting further influences to enable you to conceive
the proper kind of vessel and machinery, and how it should be constructed. These latter influences
seem, from what you have told me, to have been assimilated by John to a larger extent than
by yourself; and this, no doubt, was owing to his higher development of engineering and mechanical
genius. The result, however, has been most satisfactory. You, whom I had so long yearned to
see, were brought to embark upon this long voyage through space; I knew when you had done so,
and also that John and another accompanied you. I also knew exactly when you would arrive here,
for mentally I saw your chart and knew many of your thoughts."

"But," interposed John at this stage, "was it not rather a risky and dangerous experiment to
influence inhabitants of another world to make what was practically an invasion of Mars? Even
if it were possible, we should be afraid to do such a thing upon our earth, for fear of disastrous
developments later on."

"There was no danger at all," he replied. "I think you found you could not land here just where
you pleased!"

"Ah, that we did," said M'Allister; "and we were never so mystified in our lives."

"So, Mark," I said, laughing as I spoke, "that was your work, was it?"

"I certainly helped in doing it," he replied smilingly. "We have the means of electrifying
a very large area of space anywhere, either upon our planet or at any required height above
it, in such a manner as to neutralise the power of any vessel that could possibly come here,
and thus stop its progress entirely when we so desired. We let you go on a short distance and
then stopped you, again and again; and when we stopped you, we took care to arrange the forces
so that you could not in any event fall to the planet even if the whole of your machinery failed
to act. You were, as you know, compelled to descend exactly where we wished you to; and, in
fact, exactly where we had previously decided you should land!"

"Well," exclaimed M'Allister excitedly, "if this doesn't beat all I ever experienced! To think
now that all our movements and impulses have been engineered and controlled from Mars; not
only just recently, but for months and years past. Mon, it's marvellous!"

"Marvellous to you, no doubt," said Merna, "but only a commonplace happening here. It is very
satisfactory to us that our endeavours to influence you to come to this planet have proved
successful in the main essentials. The influence does not, however, appear to have been quite
effective as regards your steering to the landing-place we had decided upon. We had hoped there
would have been no necessity for interfering with your movements by means of the electrical waves."

"Well, Merna," I answered, "you certainly succeeded in imbuing me with a desire to land at
Sirapion, but my two companions were more attracted by the 'Gordian Knot'; and it was only
because I subordinated my own inclinations to theirs that you were compelled to use force to
make us proceed in the right direction. However, it has resulted in our having one of the most
exciting and mystifying experiences of our lives; and, now all has ended happily, I do not
think any one of us regrets that the incident occurred."

"Certainly I do not," John remarked.

"Neither do I," said M'Allister; "although I must confess I never felt so entirely beaten in
my life."

"Well, now you understand that it had to be done," said Merna. "As I remarked, there was no
danger to us in your coming here; for, if we had desired it, we could have utterly destroyed
your vessel before it reached the planet, just as easily as we stopped your progress; or we
could have destroyed it with equal ease and without any risk to ourselves after you had landed."

"My word," said M'Allister, "I'm right glad we did not come here as enemies!"

"Yes," replied Merna; "it was just as well you did not. We do not make war, but we have full
means of protecting ourselves against attack if it should ever be necessary to do so. So you
will understand that no invasion of Mars from outer space is possible."

I then turned to Merna and said, "There is one question I should like to ask you before we
part this evening: Can you tell me the meaning of the word 'Tetarta,' which Soranho, your chief,
told me was the name by which your world is known to its inhabitants?"

