This great artist, one of the fathers of modern painting, was born at Vespignano, a small town
near Florence, in 1276. He was the son of a shepherd named Bondone, and while watching his
father's flocks in the field, he showed a natural genius for art by constantly delineating
the objects around him. A sheep which he had drawn upon a flat stone, after nature, attracted
the attention of Cimabue, who persuaded his father, Bondone, to allow him to go to Florence,
confident that he would be an ornament to the art. Giotto commenced by imitating his master,
but he quickly surpassed him. A picture of the Annunciation, in the possession of the Fathers
of Badia at Florence, is one of his earliest works, and manifests a grace and beauty superior
to Cimabue, though the style is somewhat dry. In his works, symmetry became more chaste, design
more pleasing, and coloring softer than before. Lanzi says that if Cimabue was the Michael
Angelo of that age, Giotto was the Raffaelle. He was highly honored, and his works were in
great demand. He was invited to Rome by Boniface VIII., and afterwards to Avignon by Clement
V. The noble families of Verona, Milan, Ravenna, Urbino, and Bologna, were eager to possess
his works. In 1316, according to Vasari, he returned from Avignon, and was employed at Padua,
where he painted the chapel of the Nunziata all' Arena, divided all around into compartments,
each of which represents some scriptural event. Lanzi says it is truly surprising to behold,
not less on account of its high state of preservation beyond any other of his frescos, than
for its graceful expression, and that air of grandeur which Giotto so well understood. About
1325 he was invited to Naples by King Robert, to paint the church of S. Chiara, which he decorated
with subjects from the New Testament, and the Mysteries of the Apocalypse. These, like many
of his works, have been destroyed; but there remains a Madonna, and several other pictures,
in this church. Giotto's portraits were greatly admired, particularly for their air of truth
and correct resemblance. Among other illustrious persons whom he painted, were the poet Dante,
and Clement VIII. The portrait of the former was discovered in the chapel of the Podesta, now
the Bargello, at Florence, which had for two centuries been covered with whitewash, and divided
into cells for prisoners. The whitewash was removed by the painter Marini, at the instance
of Signor Bezzi and others, and the portrait discovered in the "Gloria" described by Vasari.
Giotto was also distinguished in the art of mosaic, particularly for the famous Death of the
Virgin at Florence, greatly admired by Michael Angelo; also the celebrated Navicella, or Boat
of St. Peter, in the portico of the Basilica of St. Peter's at Rome, which is now so mutilated
and altered as to leave little of the original design.

As an architect, Giotto attained considerable eminence, according to Milizia, and erected many
important edifices, among which is the bell-tower of S. Maria del Fiore. The thickness of the
walls is about ten feet; the height is two hundred and eighty feet. The cornice which supports
the parapet is very bold and striking; the whole exterior is of Gothic design, inlaid with
marble and mosaic, and the work may be considered one of the finest specimens of campanile
in Italy.

GIOTTO'S ST. FRANCIS STIGMATA

In the church of S. Francesco at Pisa, is a picture by Giotto, representing St. Francis receiving
the Stigmata,[A] which is in good preservation, and held in great veneration, not only for
the sake of the master, but for the excellence of the work. Vasari says, "It represents St.
Francis, standing on the frightful rocks of La Verna; and is finished with extraordinary care.
It exhibits a landscape with many trees and precipices, which was a new thing in those times.
In the attitude and expression of St. Francis, who is on his knees receiving the Stigmata,
the most eager desire to obtain them is clearly manifest, as well as infinite love towards
Jesus Christ, who, from heaven above, where he is seen surrounded by the seraphim, grants those
stigmata to his servant, with looks of such lively affection, that it is not possible to conceive
anything more perfect. Beneath this picture are three others, also from the life of St. Francis,
and very beautiful."

[Footnote A: Stigmata, signifies the five wounds of the Saviour impressed by himself on the
persons of certain saints, male and female, in reward for their sanctity and devotion to the
service.]

GIOTTO'S INVITATION TO ROME.

Boniface VIII., desirous of decorating St. Peter's church with some paintings, having heard
of the extraordinary talents of Giotto, despatched one of his courtiers to Tuscany, to ascertain
the truth, as to his merits, and to procure designs from other artists for his approbation
and selection. Vasari says, "The messenger, when on his way to visit Giotto, and to enquire
what other good masters there were in Florence, spoke first with many artists in Siena--then,
having received designs from them, he proceeded to Florence, and repaired one morning to the
workshop where Giotto was occupied with his labors. He declared the purpose of the Pope, and
the manner in which that pontiff desired to avail himself of his assistance, and finally requested
to have a drawing that he might send it to his holiness. Giotto, who was very courteous, took
a sheet of paper and a pencil dipped in a red color; then resting his elbow on his side to
form a sort of compass, with one turn of the hand, he drew a circle so perfect and exact that
it was a marvel to behold. This done, he turned smiling to the courtier, saying, 'There is
your drawing.' 'Am I to have nothing more than this?' enquired the latter, conceiving himself
to be jested with. 'That is enough and to spare,' replied Giotto, 'send it with the rest, and
you will see if it will not be recognized.' The messenger, unable to obtain anything more,
went away very ill satisfied, and fearing that he had been fooled. Nevertheless, having despatched
the other drawings to the Pope, with the names of those who had done them, he sent that of
Giotto also, relating the mode in which he had made his circle, without moving his arm and
without compass; from which the Pope, and such of the courtiers as were well versed in the
subject, perceived how far Giotto surpassed all the other painters of his time. This incident
becoming known, gave rise to the proverb still used in relation to people of dull wits, 'In
sei più tondo che l'O di Giotto,' (round as Giotto's O,) the significance of which consists
in the double meaning of the word tondo, which is used in the Tuscan for slowness of intellect,
and slowness of comprehension, as well as for an exact circle. The proverb besides has an interest
from the circumstance which gave it birth."

Giotto was immediately invited to Rome by the Pope, who received him with distinction, and
commissioned him to paint a large picture in the sacristy of St. Peter's, with five others
in the church, representing subjects from the life of Christ, which gave so much satisfaction
to the pontiff, that he commanded 600 gold ducats to be paid to the artist, "besides conferring
on him so many favors," says Vasari, "that there was talk of them throughout Italy."

GIOTTO'S LIVING MODEL.

Giotto, about to paint a picture of the Crucifixion, induced a poor man to suffer himself to
be bound to a cross, under the promise of being set at liberty in an hour, and handsomely rewarded
for his pains. Instead of this, as soon as Giotto had made his victim secure, he seized a dagger,
and, shocking to tell, stabbed him to the heart! He then set about painting the dying agonies
of the victim to his foul treachery. When he had finished his picture, he carried it to the
Pope; who was so well pleased with it, that he resolved to place it above the altar of his
own chapel. Giotto observed, that, as his holiness liked the copy so well, he might perhaps
like to see the original. The Pope, shocked at the impiety of the idea, uttered an exclamation
of surprise. "I mean," added Giotto, "I will show you the person whom I employed as my model
in this picture, but it must be on condition that your holiness will absolve me from all punishment
for the use which I have made of him." The Pope promised Giotto the absolution for which he
stipulated, and accompanied the artist to his workshop. On entering, Giotto drew aside a curtain
which hung before the dead man, still stretched on the cross, and covered with blood.

The barbarous exhibition struck the pontiff with horror; he told Giotto he could never give
him absolution for so cruel a deed, and that he must expect to suffer the most exemplary punishment.
Giotto, with seeming resignation, said that he had only one favor to ask, that his holiness
would give him leave to finish the piece before he died. The request had too important an object
to be denied; the Pope readily granted it; and, in the meantime, a guard was set over Giotto
to prevent his escape.

On the painting being replaced in the artist's hands, the first thing he did was to take a
brush, and, dipping it into a thick varnish, he daubed the picture all over with it, and then
announced that he had finished his task. His holiness was greatly incensed at this abuse of
the indulgence he had given, and threatened Giotto that he should be put to the most cruel
death, unless he painted another picture equal to the one which he had destroyed. "Of what
avail is your threat," replied Giotto, "to a man whom you have doomed to death at any rate?"
"But," replied his holiness, "I can revoke that doom." "Yes," continued Giotto, "but you cannot
prevail on me to trust to your verbal promise a second time." "You shall have a pardon under
my signet before you begin." On that, a conditional pardon was accordingly made out and given
to Giotto, who, taking a wet sponge, in a few minutes wiped off the coating with which he had
bedaubed the picture, and instead of a copy, restored the original in all its beauty to his
holiness. Although this story is related by many writers, it is doubtless a gross libel on
the fair fame of this great artist, originating with some witless wag, who thought nothing
too horrible to impose upon the credulity of mankind. It is discredited by the best authors.
A similar fable is related of Parrhasius. See the Olynthian Captive, vol. I. page 151 of this work.

GIOTTO AND THE KING OF NAPLES.

After Giotto's return to Florence, about 1325, Robert, King of Naples, wrote to his son Charles,
King of Calabria, who was then in Florence, desiring that he would by all means send Giotto
to him at Naples, to decorate the church and convent of Santa Clara, which he had just completed,
and desired to have adorned with noble paintings. Giotto readily accepted this flattering invitation
from so great and renowned a monarch, and immediately set out to do him service. He was received
at Naples with every mark of distinction, and executed many subjects from the old and New Testaments
in the different chapels of the building. It is said that the pictures from the Apocalypse,
which he painted in one of the chapels, were the inventions of Dante; but Dante was then dead,
and if Giotto derived any advantage from him, it must have been from previous discussions on
the subject. These works gave the greatest satisfaction to the King, who munificently rewarded
the artist, and treated him with great kindness and extraordinary familiarity. Vasari says
that Giotto was greatly beloved by King Robert, who delighted to visit him in his painting
room, to watch the progress of his work, to hear his remarks, and to hold conversation with
him; for Giotto had a ready wit, and was always as ready to amuse the monarch with his lively
conversation and witty replies as with his pencil. One day the King said to him, "Giotto, I
will make you the first man in Naples," to which Giotto promptly replied, "I am already the
first man in Naples; for this reason it is that I dwell at the Porta Reale." At another time
the King, fearing that he would injure himself by overworking in the hot season, said to him,
"Giotto, if I were in your place, now that it is so hot, I would give up painting for a time,
and take my rest." "And so would I do, certainly," replied Giotto, "were I the King of Naples."
One day the King to amuse himself, desired Giotto to paint his kingdom. The painter drew an
ass carrying a packsaddle loaded with a crown and sceptre, while a similar saddle, also bearing
the ensigns of royalty, lay at his feet; these last were all new, and the ass scented them,
with an eager desire to change them for those he bore. "What does this signify, Giotto?" enquired
the King. "Such is thy kingdom," replied Giotto, "and such thy subjects, who are every day
desiring a new lord."

GIOTTO AND DANTE.

The children of Giotto were remarkably ill-favored. Dante, one day, quizzed him by asking,
"Giotto, how is it that you, who make the children of others so beautiful, make your own so
ugly?" "Ah, my dear friend," replied the painter, "mine were made in the dark."

DEATH OF GIOTTO.

"Giotto," says Vasari, "having passed his life in the production of so many admirable works,
and proved himself a good Christian, as well as an excellent painter, resigned his soul to
God in the year 1336, not only to the great regret of his fellow citizens, but of all who had
known him, or even heard his name. He was honorably entombed, as his high deserts had well
merited, having been beloved all his life, but more especially by the learned men of all professions."
Dante and Petrarch were his warm admirers, and immortalized him in their verse.

BUONAMICO BUFFALMACCO.

The first worthy successor of Giotto in the Florentine school, was Buffalmacco, whose name
has been immortalized by Boccaccio in his Decameron, as a man of most facetious character.
He executed many works in fresco and distemper, but they have mostly perished. He chiefly excelled
in Crucifixions and Ascensions. He was born, according to Vasari, in 1262, and died in 1340,
aged 78; but Baldinucci says that he lived later than 1358. His name is mentioned in the old
Book of the Company of Painters, under the date of 1351, (Editors of the Florentine edition
of Vasari, 1846.). Buffalmacco was a merry wag, and a careless spendthrift, and died in the
public hospital.

BUFFALMACCO AND HIS MASTER.

"Among the Three Hundred Stories of Franco Saccheti," says Vasari, "we find it related to begin
with, what our artist did in his youth--that when Buffalmacco was studying with Andrea Tafi,
his master had the habit of rising before daylight when the nights were long, compelling his
scholars also to awake and proceed to their work. This provoked Buonamico, who did not approve
of being aroused from his sweetest sleep. He accordingly bethought himself of finding some
means by which Andrea might be prevented from rising so early, and soon found what he sought."
Now it happened that Tafi was a very superstitious man, believing that demons and hobgoblins
walked the earth at their pleasure. Buffalmacco, having caught about thirty large beetles,
he fastened to the back of each, by means of small needles, a minute taper, which he lighted,
and sent them one by one into his master's room, through a crack in the door, about the time
he was accustomed to rise and summon him to his labors. Tafi seeing these strange lights wandering
about his room, began to tremble with fright, and repeated his prayers and exorcisms, but finding
they produced no effect on the apparitions, he covered his head with the bed clothes, and lay
almost petrified with terror till daylight. When he rose he enquired of Buonamico, if "he had
seen more than a thousand demons wandering about his room, as he had himself in the night?"
Buonamico replied that he had seen nothing, and wondered he had not been called to work. "Call
thee to work!" exclaimed the master, "I had other things to think of besides painting, and
am resolved to stay in this house no longer;" and away he ran to consult the parish priest,
who seems to have been as superstitious as the poor painter himself. When Tafi discoursed of
this strange affair with Buonamico, the latter told him that he had been taught to believe
that the demons were the greatest enemies of God, consequently they must be the most deadly
adversaries of painters. "For," said he, "besides that we always make them most hideous, we
think of nothing but painting saints, both men and women, on walls and pictures, which is much
worse, since we thereby render men better and more devout to the great despite of the demons;
and for all this, the devils being angry with us, and having more power by night than by day,
they play these tricks upon us. I verily believe too, that they will get worse and worse, if
this practice of rising to work in the night be not discontinued altogether." Buffalmacco then
advised his master to make the experiment, and see whether the devils would disturb him if
he did not work at night. Tafi followed this advice for a short time, and the demons ceased
to disturb him; but forgetting his fright, he began to rise betimes, as before, and to call
Buffalmacco to his work. The beetles then recommenced their wanderings, till Tafi was compelled
by his fears and the earnest advice of the priest to desist altogether from that practice.
"Nay," says Vasari, "the story becoming known through the city, produced such an effect that
neither Tafi, nor any other painter dared for a long time to work at night."

Another laughable story is related of Buffalmacco's ingenuity to rid himself of annoyance.
Soon after he left Tafi, he took apartments adjoining those occupied by a man who was a penurious
old simpleton, and compelled his wife to rise long before daylight to commence work at her
spinning wheel. The old woman was often at her wheel, when Buonamico retired to bed from his
revels. The buzz of the instrument put all sleep out of the question; so the painter resolved
to put a stop to this annoyance. Having provided himself with a long tube, and removed a brick
next to the chimney, he watched his opportunity, and blew salt into their soup till it was
spoiled. He then succeeded in making them believe that it was the work of demons, and to desist
from such early rising. Whenever the old woman touched her wheel before daylight, the soup
was sure to be spoiled, but when she was allowed reasonable rest, it was fresh and savory.

BUFFALMACCO AND THE NUNS OF THE CONVENT OF FAENZA.

Soon after Buffalmacco left his master, he was employed by the nuns of Faenza to execute a
picture for their convent. The subject was the slaughter of the Innocents. While the work was
in progress, those ladies some times took a peep at the picture through the screen he had raised
for its protection. "Now Buffalmacco," says Vasari, "was very eccentric and peculiar in his
dress, as well as manner of living, and as he did not always wear the head-dress and mantle
usual at the time, the nuns remarked to their intendant, that it did not please them to see
him appear thus in his doublet; but the steward found means to pacify them, and they remained
silent on the subject for some time. At length, however, seeing the painter always accoutred
in like manner, and fancying that he must be some apprentice, who ought to be merely grinding
colors, they sent a messenger to Buonamico from the abbess, to the effect, that they would
like to see the master sometimes at the work, and not always himself. To this Buffalmacco,
who was very pleasant in manner, replied, that as soon as the master came to the work he would
let them know of his arrival; for he perceived clearly how the matter stood. Thereupon, he
placed two stools, one on the other, with a water-jar on the top; on the neck of the jar he
set a cap, which was supported by the handle; he then arranged a long mantle carefully around
the whole, and securing a pencil within the mouth, on that side of the jar whence the water
is poured, he departed. The nuns, returning to examine the work through the hole which they
had made in the screen, saw the supposed master in full robes, when, believing him to be working
with all his might, and that he would produce a very different kind of thing from any that
his predecessor in the jacket could accomplish, they went away contented, and thought no more
of the matter for some days. At length, they were desirous of seeing what fine things the master
had done, and at the end of a fortnight (during which Buffalmacco had never set foot within
the place), they went by night, when they concluded that he would not be there, to see his
work. But they were all confused and ashamed, when one, bolder than the rest, approached near
enough to discover the truth respecting this solemn master, who for fifteen days had been so
busy doing nothing. They acknowledged, nevertheless, that they had got but what they merited--the
work executed by the painter in the jacket being all that could be desired. The intendant was
therefore commanded to recall Buonamico, who returned in great glee and with many a laugh,
to his labor, having taught these good ladies the difference between a man and a water-jug,
and shown them that they should not always judge the works of men by their vestments."

BUFFALMACCO AND THE NUNS' WINE.

Buffalmacco executed an historical painting for the nuns, which greatly pleased them, every
part being excellent in their estimation, except the faces, which they thought too pale and
wan. Buonamico, knowing that they kept the very best Vernaccia (a kind of delicious Tuscan
wine, kept for the uses of the mass) to be found in Florence, told his fair patrons, that this
defect could only be remedied by mixing the colors with good Vernaccia, but that when the cheeks
were touched with colors thus tempered, they would become rosy and life-like enough. "The good
ladies," says Vasari, "believing all he said, kept him supplied with the very best Vernaccia
during all the time that his labors lasted, and he joyously swallowing this delicious nectar,
found color enough on his palette to give his faces the fresh rosiness they so much desired."
Bottari says, that Buonamico, on one occasion, was surprised by the nuns, while drinking the
Vernaccia, when he instantly spirted what he had in his mouth on the picture, whereby they
were fully satisfied; if they cut short his supply, his pictures looked pale and lifeless,
but the Vernaccia always restored them to warmth and beauty. The nuns were so much pleased
with his performances that they employed him a long time, and he decorated their whole church
with his own hand, representing subjects from the life of Christ, all extremely well executed.

BUFFALMACCO, BISHOP GUIDO, AND HIS MONKEY.

"In the year 1302," says Vasari, "Buffalmacco was invited to Assisi, where, in the church of
San Francesco, he painted in fresco the chapel of Santa Caterina, with stories taken from her
life. These paintings are still preserved, and many figures in them are well worthy of praise.
Having finished this chapel, Buonamico was passing through Arezzo, when he was detained by
the Bishop Guido, who had heard that he was a cheerful companion, as well as a good painter,
and who wished him to remain for a time in that city, to paint the chapel of the episcopal
church, where the baptistery now is. Buonamico began the work, and had already completed the
greater part of it, when a very curious circumstance occurred; and this, according to Franco
Sacchetti, who relates it among his Three Hundred Stories, was as follows. The bishop had a
large ape, of extraordinary cunning, the most sportive and mischievous creature in the world.
This animal sometimes stood on the scaffold, watching Buonamico at his work, and giving a grave
attention to every action: with his eyes constantly fixed on the painter, he observed him mingle
his colors, handle the various flasks and tools, beat the eggs for his paintings in distemper--all
that he did, in short; for nothing escaped the creature's observation. One Saturday evening,
Buffalmacco left his work; and on the Sunday morning, the ape, although fastened to a great
log of wood, which the bishop had commanded his servants to fix to his foot, that he might
not leap about at his pleasure, contrived, in despite of the weight, which was considerable,
to get on the scaffold where Buonamico was accustomed to work. Here he fell at once upon the
vases which held the colors, mingled them all together, beat up whatever eggs he could find,
and, plunging the pencils into this mixture, he daubed over every figure, and did not cease
till he had repainted the whole work with his own hand. Having done that, he mixed all the
remaining colors together, and getting down from the scaffold, he went his way. When Monday
morning came, Buffalmacco returned to his work; and, finding his figures ruined, his vessels
all heaped together, and every thing turned topsy-turvy, he stood amazed in sore confusion.
Finally, having considered the matter within himself, he arrived at the conclusion that some
Aretine, moved by jealousy, or other cause, had worked the mischief he beheld. Proceeding to
the bishop, he related what had happened, and declared his suspicions, by all which that prelate
was greatly disturbed; but, consoling Buonamico as best he could, he persuaded him to return
to his labors, and repair the mischief. Bishop Guido, thinking him nevertheless likely to be
right, his opinion being a very probable one, gave him six soldiers, who were ordered to remain
concealed on the watch, with drawn weapons, during the master's absence, and were commanded
to cut down any one, who might be caught in the act, without mercy. The figures were again
completed in a certain time; and one day as the soldiers were on guard, they heard a strange
kind of rolling sound in the church, and immediately after saw the ape clamber up to the scaffold
and seize the pencils. In the twinkling of an eye, the new master had mingled his colors; and
the soldiers saw him set to work on the saints of Buonamico. They then summoned the artist,
and showing him the malefactor, they all stood watching the animal at his operations, being
in danger of fainting with laughter, Buonamico more than all; for, though exceedingly disturbed
by what had happened, he could not help laughing till the tears ran down his cheeks. At length
he betook himself to the bishop, and said: 'My lord, you desire to have your chapel painted
in one fashion, but your ape chooses to have it done in another.' Then, relating the story,
he added: 'There was no need whatever for your lordship to send to foreign parts for a painter,
since you had the master in your house; but perhaps he did not know exactly how to mix the
colors; however, as he is now acquainted with the method, he can proceed without further help;
I am no longer required here, since we have discovered his talents, and will ask no other reward
for my labors, but your permission to return to Florence.' Hearing all this, the bishop, although
heartily vexed, could not restrain his laughter; and the rather, as he remembered that he who
was thus tricked by an ape, was himself the most incorrigible trickster in the world. However,
when they had talked and laughed over this new occurrence to their hearts' content, the bishop
persuaded Buonamico to remain; and the painter agreed to set himself to work for the third
time, when the chapel was happily completed. But the ape, for his punishment, and in expiation
of the crimes he had committed, was shut up in a strong wooden cage, and fastened on the platform
where Buonamico worked; there he was kept till the whole was finished; and no imagination could
conceive the leaps and flings of the creature thus enclosed in his cage, nor the contortions
he made with his feet, hands, muzzle, and whole body, at the sight of others working, while
he was not permitted to do anything."

BUFFALMACCO'S TRICK ON THE BISHOP OF AREZZO.

"When the works of the chapel before mentioned, were completed, the bishop ordered Buonamico--either
for a jest, or for some other cause--to paint, on one of the walls of his palace, an eagle
on the back of a lion, which the bird had killed. The crafty painter, having promised to do
all that the bishop desired, caused a stout scaffolding and screen of wood-work to be made
before the building, saying that he could not be seen to paint such a thing. Thus prepared,
and shut up alone within his screen, Buonamico painted the direct contrary of what the bishop
had required--a lion, namely, tearing an eagle to pieces; and, having painted the picture,
he requested permission from the bishop to repair to Florence, for the purpose of seeking certain
colors needful to his work. He then locked up the scaffold, and departed to Florence, resolving
to return no more to the bishop. But the latter, after waiting some time, and finding that
the painter did not reappear, caused the scaffolding to be taken down, and discovered that
Buonamico had been making a jest of him. Furious at this affront, Guido condemned the artist
to banishment for life from his dominions; which, when Buonamico learnt, he sent word to the
bishop that he might do his worst, whereupon the bishop threatened him with fearful consequences.
Yet considering afterwards that he had been tricked, only because he had intended to put an
affront upon the painter, Bishop Guido forgave him, and even rewarded him liberally for his
labors. Nay, Buffalmacco was again invited to Arezzo, no long time after, by the same prelate,
who always treated him as a valued servant and familiar friend, confiding many works in the
old cathedral to his care, all of which, unhappily, are now destroyed. Buonamico also painted
the apsis of the principal chapel in the church of San Giustino in Arezzo."

In the notes of the Roman and other earlier editions of Vasari, we are told that the lion being
the insignia of Florence, and the eagle, that of Arezzo, the bishop designed to assert his
own superiority over the former city, he being lord of Arezzo; but later commentators affirm,
that Guido, being a furious Ghibelline, intended rather to offer an affront to the Guelfs,
by exalting the eagle, which was the emblem of his party, over the lion, that of the Guelfs.

ORIGIN OF LABEL PAINTING.

Buffalmacco is generally considered the inventor of label painting, or the use of a label drawn
from the mouth to represent it speaking; but it was practiced by Cimabue, and probably long
before his time, in Italy. Pliny tells us that it was practiced by the early Greek painters.
Vasari says that Buffalmacco was invited to Pisa, where he painted many pictures in the Abbey
of St. Paul, on the banks of the Arno, which then belonged to the monks of Vallambrosa. He
covered the entire surface of the church, from the roof to the floor, with histories from the
Old Testament, beginning with the creation of man and continuing to the building of the Tower
of Babel. In the church of St. Anastasia, he also painted certain stories from the life of
that saint, "in which," says Vasari, "are very many beautiful costumes and head-dresses of
women, painted with a charming grace of manner." Bruno de Giovanni, the friend and pupil of
Buonamico, was associated with him in this work. He too, is celebrated by Boccaccio, as a man
of joyous memory. When the stories on the façade were finished, Bruno painted in the same church,
an altar-piece of St. Ursula, with her company of virgins. In one hand of the saint, he placed
a standard bearing the arms of Pisa--a white cross on a field of red; the other is extended
towards a woman, who, climbing between two rocks, has one foot in the sea, and stretches out
both hands towards the saint, in the act of supplication. This female form represents Pisa.
She bears a golden horn upon her head, and wears a mantle sprinkled over with circlets and
eagles. Being hard pressed by the waves, she earnestly implores succor of the saint.

While employed on this work, Bruno complained that his faces had not the life and expression
which distinguished those of Buonamico, when the latter, in his playful manner, advised him
to paint words proceeding from the mouth of the woman supplicating the saint, and in like manner
those proceeding from the saint in reply. "This," said the wag, "will make your figures not
only life-like, but even eloquently expressive." Bruno followed this advice; "And this method,"
says Vasari, "as it pleased Bruno and other dull people of that day, so does it equally satisfy
certain simpletons of our own, who are well served by artists as commonplace as themselves.
It must, in truth, be allowed to be an extraordinary thing that a practice thus originating
in jest, and in no other way, should have passed into general use; insomuch that even a great
part of the Campo Santo, decorated by much esteemed masters, is full of this absurdity." This
picture is now in the Academy of the Fine Arts at Pisa.

UTILITY OF ANCIENT WORKS.

The works of Buffalmacco greatly pleased the good people of Pisa, who gave him abundant employment;
yet he and his boon companion Bruno, merrily squandered all they had earned, and returned to
Florence, as poor as when they left that city. Here they also found plenty of work. They decorated
the church of S. Maria Novella with several productions which were much applauded, particularly
the Martyrdom of St. Maurice and his companions, who were decapitated for their adherence to
the faith of Christ. The picture was designed by Buonamico, and painted by Bruno, who had no
great power of invention or design. It was painted for Guido Campere, then constable of Florence,
whose portrait was introduced as St. Maurice.--The martyrs are led to execution by a troop
of soldiers, armed in the ancient manner, and presenting a very fine spectacle. "This picture,"
says Vasari, "can scarcely be called a very fine one, but it is nevertheless worthy of consideration
as well for the design and invention of Buffalmacco, as for the variety of vestments, helmets,
and other armor used in those times; and from which I have myself derived great assistance
in certain historical paintings, executed for our lord, the Duke Cosmo, wherein it was necessary
to represent men armed in the ancient manner, with other accessories belonging to that period;
and his illustrious excellency, as well as all else who have seen these works, have been greatly
pleased with them; whence we may infer the valuable assistance to be obtained from the inventions
and performances of the old master, and the mode in which great advantages may be derived from
them, even though they may not be altogether perfect; for it is these artists who have opened
the path to us, and led the way to all the wonders performed down to the present time, and
still being performed even in these of our days."

BUFFALMACCO AND THE COUNTRYMAN.

While Buonamico was employed at Florence, a countryman came and engaged him to paint a picture
of St. Christopher for his parish church; the contract was, that the figure should be twelve
braccia in length,[B] and the price eight florins. But when the painter proceeded to look at
the church for which the picture was ordered, he found it but nine braccia high, and the same
in length; therefore, as he was unable to paint the saint in an upright position he represented
him reclining, bent the legs at the knees, and turned them up against the opposite wall. When
the work was completed, the countryman declared that he had been cheated, and refused to pay
for it. The matter was then referred to the authorities, who decided that Buffalmacco had performed
his contract, and ordered the stipulated payment to be made.

[Footnote B: The braccio, (arm, cubit) is an Italian measure which varies in length, not only
in different parts of Italy, but also according to the thing measured. In Parma, for example,
the braccio for measuring silk is 23 inches, for woolens and cottons 25 and a fraction, while
that for roads and buildings is 21 only. In Siena, the braccio for cloth is 14 inches, while
in Florence it is 23, and in Milan it is 39 inches, English measure.]

The writer of these pages, in his intercourse with artists, has met with incidents as comical
as that just related of Buonamico. Some artists proceed to paint without having previously
designed, or even sketched out their subject on the canvass. We know an artist, who painted
a fancy portrait of a child, in a landscape, reclining on a bank beside a stream; but when
he had executed the landscape, and the greater part of the figure, he found he had not room
in his canvass to get the feet in; so he turned the legs up in such a manner, as to give the
child the appearance of being in great danger of sliding into the water. We greatly offended
the painter by advising him to drive a couple of stakes into the bank to prevent such a catastrophe.
Another artist, engaged in painting a full-length portrait, found, when he had got his picture
nearly finished, that his canvass was at least four inches too short. "What shall I do," said
the painter to a friend, "I have not room for the feet." "Cover them up with green grass,"
was the reply. "But my background represents an interior." "Well, hay will do as well." "Confound
your jokes; a barn is a fine place to be sure for fine carpets, fine furniture, and a fine
gentleman. I'll tell you what I'll do; I'll place one foot on this stool, and hide the other
beneath this chair." He did so, but the figure looked all body and no legs, and the sitter
refused to take the portrait.

BUFFALMACCO AND THE PEOPLE OF PERUGIA.

The Perugians engaged Buonamico to decorate their market-place with a picture of the patron
saint of the city. Having erected an enclosure of planks and matting, that he might not be
disturbed in his labors, the painter commenced his operations. Ten days had scarcely elapsed
before every one who passed by enquired with eager curiosity, "when the picture would be finished?"
as though they thought such works could be cast in a mould. Buffalmacco, wearied and disgusted
at their impatient outcries, resolved on a bit of revenge. Therefore, keeping the work still
enclosed, he admitted the Perugians to examine it, and when they declared themselves satisfied
and delighted with the performance, and wished to remove the planks and matting, Buonamico
requested that they would permit them to remain two days longer as he wished to retouch certain
parts when the painting was fully dry. This was agreed to; and Buonamico instantly mounting
his scaffold, removed the great gilt diadem from the head of the saint, and replaced it with
a coronet of gudgeons. This accomplished, he paid his host, and set off to Florence.

Two days having past, and the Perugians not seeing the painter going about as they were accustomed
to do, inquired of his host what had become of him, and learning that he had left the city,
they hastened to remove the screen that concealed the picture, when they discovered their saint
solemnly crowned with gudgeons. Their rage now knew no bounds, and they instantly despatched
horsemen in pursuit of Buonamico,--but in vain--the painter having found shelter in Florence.
They then set an artist of their own to remove the crown of fishes and replace the gilded diadem,
consoling themselves for the affront, by hurling maledictions at the head of Buonamico and
every other Florentine.

BUFFALMACCO'S NOVEL METHOD OF ENFORCING PAYMENT.

Buffalmacco painted a fresco at Calcinaia, representing the Virgin with the Child in her arms.
But the man for whom it was executed, only made fair promises in place of payment. Buonamico
was not a man to be trifled with or made a tool of; therefore, he repaired early one morning
to Calcinaia, and turned the child in the arms of the Holy Virgin into a young bear. The change
being soon discovered, caused the greatest scandal, and the poor countryman for whom it was
painted, hastened to the painter, and implored him to remove the cub and replace the child
as before, declaring himself ready to pay all demands. This Buonamico agreed to do on being
paid for the first and second painting, which last was only in water colors, when with a wet
sponge, he immediately restored the picture to its peristine beauty. The Editors of the Florentine
edition of Vasari, (1846) say that "in a room of the priory of Calcinaia, are still to be seen
the remains of a picture on the walls, representing the Madonna with the Child in her arms,
and other saints, evidently a work of the 14th century; and a tradition preserved to this day,
declares that painting to be the one alluded to by our author."

STEFANO FIORENTINO.

This old Florentine painter was born in 1301. He was the grandson and disciple of Giotto, whom,
according to Vasari, he greatly excelled in every department of art. From his close imitations
of nature, he was called by his fellow citizens, "Stefano the Ape," (ape of nature.) He was
the first artist who attempted to show the naked under his draperies, which were loose, easy,
and delicate. He established the rules of perspective, little known at that early period, on
more scientific principles. He was the first who attempted the difficult task of foreshortening.
He also succeeded better than any of his cotemporaries in giving expression to his heads, and
a less Gothic turn to his figures. He acquired a high reputation, and executed many works,
in fresco and distemper, for the churches and public edifices of Florence, Rome, and other
cities, all of which have perished, according to Lanzi, except a picture of the Virgin and
Infant Christ in the Campo Santo at Pisa. He died in 1350.

GIOTTINO.

Tommaso Stefano, called II Giottino, the son and scholar of Stefano Fiorentino, was born at
Florence in 1324. According to Vasari, he adhered so closely to the style of Giotto, that the
good people of Florence called him Giottino, and averred that the soul of his great ancestor
had transmigrated and animated him. There are some frescoes by him, still preserved at Assissi,
and a Dead Christ with the Virgin and St. John, in the church of S. Remigio at Florence, which
so strongly partake of the manner of Giotto as to justify the name bestowed upon him by his
fellow citizens. He died in the flower of his life at Florence in 1356.

PAOLO UCCELLO.

This old painter was born at Florence in 1349, and was a disciple of Antonio Veneziano. His
name was Mazzocchi, but being very celebrated as a painter of animals, and especially so of
birds, of which last he formed a large collection of the most curious, he was called Uccello
(bird). He was one of the first painters who cultivated perspective. Before his time buildings
had not a true point of perspective, and figures appeared sometimes as if falling or slipping
off the canvass. He made this branch so much his hobby, that he neglected other essential parts
of the art. To improve himself he studied geometry with Giovanni Manetti, a celebrated mathematician.
He acquired great distinction in his time and some of his works still remain in the churches
and convents of Florence. In the church of S. Maria Novella are several fresco histories from
the Old Testament, which he selected for the purpose of introducing a multitude of his favorite
objects, beasts and birds; among them, are Adam and Eve in Paradise, Noah entering the Ark,
the Deluge, &c. He painted battles of lions, tigers, serpents, &c, with peasants flying in
terror from the scene of combat. He also painted landscapes with figures, cattle and ruins,
possessing so much truth and nature, that Lanzi says "he may be justly called the Bassano of
his age." He was living in 1436. Vasari places his birth in 1396-7, and his death in 1479,
but later writers have proved his dates to be altogether erroneous.

UCCELLO'S ENTHUSIASM.

"Paolo Uccello employed himself perpetually and without any intermission," says Vasari, "in
the consideration of the most difficult questions connected with art, insomuch that he brought
the method of preparing the plans and elevations of buildings, by the study of linear perspective,
to perfection. From the ground plan to the cornice, and summit of the roof, he reduced all
to strict rules, by the convergence of intersecting lines, which he diminished towards the
centre, after having fixed the point of view higher or lower, as seemed good to him; he labored,
in short, so earnestly in these difficult matters that he found means, and fixed rules, for
making his figures really to seem standing on the plane whereon they were placed; not only
showing how in order manifestly to draw back or retire, they must gradually be diminished,
but also giving the precise manner and degree required for this, which had previously been
done by chance, or effected at the discretion of the artist, as he best could. He also discovered
the method of turning the arches and cross-vaulting of ceilings, taught how floors are to be
foreshortened by the convergence of the beams; showed how the artist must proceed to represent
the columns bending round the sharp corners of a building, so that when drawn in perspective,
they efface the angle and cause it to seem level. To pore over all these matters, Paolo would
remain alone, almost like a hermit, shut up in his house for weeks and months without suffering
himself to be approached."

UCCELLO AND THE MONKS OF SAN MINIATO.

Uccello was employed to decorate one of the cloisters of the monastery of San Miniato, situated
without the city of Florence, with subjects from the lives of the Holy Fathers. While he was
engaged on these works, the monks gave him scarcely anything to eat but cheese, of which the
painter soon became tired, and being shy and timid, he resolved to go no more to work in the
cloister. The prior sent to enquire the cause of his absence, but when Paolo heard the monks
asking for him, he would never be at home, and if he chanced to meet any of the brothers of
that order in the street, he gave them a wide berth. This extraordinary conduct excited the
curiosity of the monks to such a degree that one day, two of the brothers, more swift of foot
than the rest, gave chase to Paolo, and having, cornered him, demanded why he did not come
to finish the work according to his agreement, and wherefore he fled at the sight of one of
their body. "Faith," replied the painter, "you have so murdered me, that I not only run away
from you, but dare not stop near the house of any joiner, or even pass by one; and all this
owing to the bad management of your abbot; for, what with his cheese-pies, and cheese-soup,
he has made me swallow such a mountain of cheese, that I am all turned into cheese myself,
and tremble lest the carpenters should seize me, to make their glue of me; of a certainty had
I stayed any longer with you, I should be no more Paolo, but a huge lump of cheese." The monks,
bursting with laughter, went their way, and told the story to their abbot, who at length prevailed
on Uccello to return to his work on condition that he would order him no more dishes made of
cheese.

UCCELLO'S FIVE PORTRAITS.

Uccello was a man of very eccentric character and peculiar habits; but he was a great lover
of art, and applauded those who excelled in any of its branches. He painted the portraits of
five distinguished men, in one oblong picture, that he might preserve their memory and features
to posterity. He kept it in his own house, as a memorial of them, as long as he lived. In the
time of Vasari, it was in the possession of Giuliano da Sangallo. At the present day, (Editor's
Florentine edition of Vasari, 1846) all trace of this remarkable picture is lost. The first
of these portraits was that of the painter Giotto, as one who had given new light and life
to art; the second, Fillippo Brunelleschi, distinguished for architecture; the third, Donatello,
eminent for sculpture; the fourth, Uccello himself, for perspective and animals; and the fifth
was his friend Giovanni Manetti, for the mathematics.

UCCELLO'S INCREDULITY OF ST. THOMAS.

It is related, says Vasari, of this master, that being commissioned to paint a picture of St.
Thomas seeking the wound in the side of Christ, above the door of the church dedicated to that
saint, in the Mercato Vecchio, he declared that he would make known in that work, the extent
of what he had acquired and was capable of producing. He accordingly bestowed upon it the utmost
care and consideration, and erected an enclosure around the place that he might not be disturbed
until it should be completed. One day, his friend Donatello met him, and asked him, "What kind
of work is this of thine, that thou art shutting up so closely?" Paolo replied, "Thou shalt
see it some day; let that suffice thee." Donatello would not press him, thinking that when
the time came, he should, as usual, behold a miracle of art. It happened one morning, as he
was in the Mercato Vecchio, buying fruit, he saw Paolo uncovering his picture, and saluting
him courteously, the latter anxiously demanded what he thought of his work. Donatello having
examined the painting very closely, turned to the painter with a disappointed look, and said,
"Why, Paolo, thou art uncovering thy picture at the very moment when thou shouldst be shutting
it up from the sight of all!" These words so grievously afflicted the painter, who at once
perceived that he would be more likely to incur derision from his boasted master-piece, than
the honor he had hoped for, that he hastened home and shut himself up, devoting himself to
the study of perspective, which, says Vasari, kept him in poverty and depression till the day
of his death. If this story be true, Uccello must have painted the picture referred to in his
old age.

THE ITALIAN SCHOOLS OF PAINTING.

The fame and success of Cimabue and Giotto, brought forth painters in abundance, and created
schools all over Italy. The church increasing in power and riches, called on the arts of painting
and sculpture, to add to the beauty and magnificence of her sanctuaries; riches and honors
were showered on men whose genius added a new ray of grace to the Madonna, or conferred a diviner
air on St. Peter or St. Paul; and as much of the wealth of Christendom found its way to Rome,
the successors of the apostles were enabled to distribute their patronage over all the schools
of Italy. Lanzi reckons fourteen schools of painting in Italy, each of which is distinguished
by some peculiar characteristics, as follows: 1, the Florentine school; 2, the Sienese school;
3, the Roman school; 4, the Neapolitan school; 5, the Venetian school; 6, the Mantuan school;
7, the Modenese school; 8, the school of Parma; 9, the school of Cremona; 10, the school of
Milan; 11, the school of Bologna; 12, the school of Ferrara; 13, the school of Genoa; 14, the
school of Piedmont. Of these, the Florentine, the Roman, and the Bolognese are celebrated for
their epic grandeur of composition; that of Siena for its poetic taste; that of Naples for
its fire; and that of Venice for the splendor of its coloring.

Other writers make different divisions, according to style or country; thus, Correggio, being
by birth a Lombard, and the originator of a new style, the name of the Lombard school has been
conferred by many upon the followers of his maxims, the characteristics of which are contours
drawn round and full, the countenances warm and smiling, the union of the colors clear and
strong, and the foreshortenings frequent, with a particular attention to the chiaro-scuro.
Others again, rank the artists of Milan, Mantua Parma, Modena, and Cremona, under the one head
of the Lombard school; but Lanzi justly makes the distinctions before mentioned, because their
manners are very different. Writers of other nations rank all these subdivisions under one
head--the Italian school. Lanzi again divides these schools into epochs, as they rose from
their infancy, to their greatest perfection, and again declined into mannerism, or servile
imitation, or as eminent artists rose who formed an era in art. Thus writers speak of the schools
of Lionardo da Vinci, of Michael Angelo, of Raffaelle, of Correggio, of Titian, of the Caracci,
and of every artist who acquired a distinguished reputation, and had many followers. Several
great artists formed such a marked era in their schools, that their names and those of their
schools are often used synonymously by many writers; thus, when they speak of the Roman school,
they mean that of Raffaelle; of the Florentine, that of Michael Angelo; of Parma or Lombardy,
that of Correggio; of Bologna, that of the Caracci; but not so of the Venetian and Neapolitan
schools, because the Venetian school produced several splendid colorists, and that of Naples
as many, distinguished by other peculiarities. These distinctions should be borne in mind in
order rightly to understand writers, especially foreigners, on Italian art.

CLAUDE JOSEPH VERNET.

Claude Joseph Vernet, the father of Carl Vernet, and the grandfather of Horace, was born at
Avignon in 1714. He was the son of Antoine Vernet, an obscure painter, who foretold that he
would one day render his family illustrious in art, and gave him every advantage that his limited
means would permit. Such were the extraordinary talents he exhibited almost in his infancy,
that his father regarded him as a prodigy, and dreaming of nothing but seeing him become the
greatest historical painter of the age, he resolved to send him to Rome; and having, by great
economy, saved a few louis d'or, he put them into Joseph's pocket, when he was about eighteen
years of age, and sent him off with a wagoner, who undertook to conduct him to Marseilles.

VERNET'S PRECOCITY.

The wonderful stories told about the early exhibitions of genius in many celebrated painters
are really true with respect to Joseph Vernet. In his infancy, he exhibited the most extraordinary
passion for painting. He himself has related, that on his return from Italy, his mother gave
him some drawings which he had executed at the age of five years, when he was rewarded by being
allowed to use the pencils he had tried to purloin. Before he was fifteen, he painted frieze-panels,
fire-screens, coach-panels, sedan chair-panels, and the like, whenever he could get a commission;
he also gave proof of that facility of conceiving and executing, which was one of the characteristics
of his genius.

VERNET'S ENTHUSIASM.

It has been before stated that Vernet's father intended him for an historical painter, but
nature formed his genius to imitate her sweetest, as well as most terrible aspect. When he
was on his way to Marseilles, he met with so many charming prospects, that he induced his companion
to halt so often while he sketched them, that it took them a much longer time to reach that
port than it would otherwise have done.

When he first saw the sea from the high hill, called La Viste, near Marseilles, he stood wrapt
in admiration. Before him stretched the blue waters of the Mediterranean as far as the eye
could reach, while three islands, a few leagues from the shore, seemed to have been placed
there on purpose to break the uniformity of the immense expanse of waters, and to gratify the
eye; on his right rose a sloping town of country houses, intersected with trees, rising above
one another on successive terraces; on his left was the little harbor of Mastigues; in front,
innumerable vessels rocked to and fro in the harbor of Marseilles, while the horizon was terminated
by the picturesque tower of Bouc, nearly lost, however, in the distance. This scene made a
lasting impression on Vernet. Nature seemed not only to invite, but to woo him to paint marine
subjects, and from that moment his vocation was decided on. Thus nature frequently instructs
men of genius, and leads them on in the true path to excellence and renown. Like the Æolian
harp, which waits for a breath of air to produce a sound, so they frequently wait or strive
in vain, till nature strikes a sympathetic chord, that vibrates to the soul. Thus Joseph Vernet
never thought of his forte till he first stood on La Viste; and after that, he was nothing
but a painter of ships and harbors, and tranquil seas, till the day when lashed to the mast,
he first beheld the wild sea in such rude commotion, as threatened to engulf the noble ship
and all on board at every moment. Then his mind was elevated to the grandeur of the scene;
and he recollected forever the minutest incident of the occasion.

"It was on going from Marseilles to Rome," says one of his biographers, M. Pitra, "that Joseph
Vernet, on seeing a tempest gathering, when they were off the Island of Sardinia, was seized,
not with terror, but with admiration; in the midst of the general alarm, the painter seemed
really to relish the peril; his only desire was to face the tempest, and to be, so to say,
mixed up with it, in order that, some day or other, he might astonish and frighten others by
the terrible effects he would learn to produce; his only fear was that he might lose the sight
of a spectacle so new to him. He had himself lashed to the main mast, and while he was tossed
about in every direction, saturated with seawater, and excited by this hand-to-hand struggle
with his model, he painted the tempest, not on his canvass, but in his memory, which never
forgot anything. He saw and remembered all--clouds, waves, and rock, hues and colors, with
the motion of the boats and the rocking of the ship, and the accidental light which intersected
a slate-colored sky that served as a ground to the whiteness of the sea-foam." But, according
to D'Argenville and others, this event occurred in 1752, when he was on his way to Paris, at
the invitation of Louis XV. Embarking at Leghorn in a small felucca, he sailed to Marseilles.
A violent storm happened on the voyage, which greatly terrified some of the passengers, but
Vernet, undaunted, and struck with the grandeur of the scene, requested the sailors to lash
him to the mast head, and there he remained, absorbed in admiration, and endeavoring to transfer
to his sketch-book, a correct picture of the sublime scene with which he was surrounded. His
grandson, Horace Vernet, painted an excellent picture of this scene, which was exhibited in
the Louvre in 1816, and attracted a great deal of attention.

VERNET AT ROME.

Vernet arrived at Rome in 1732, and became the scholar of Bernardino Fergioni, then a celebrated
marine painter, but Lanzi says, "he was soon eclipsed by Joseph Vernet, who had taken up his
abode at Rome." Entirely unknown in that metropolis of art, always swarming with artists, Vernet
lived for several years in the greatest poverty, subsisting by the occasional sale of a drawing
or picture at any price he could get. He even painted panels for coach builders, which were
subsequently sawed out and sold as works of great value. Fiorillo relates that he painted a
superb marine for a suit of coarse clothes, which brought 5000 francs at the sale of M. de
Julienne. Finding large pictures less saleable, he painted small ones, which he sold for two
sequins a-piece, till a Cardinal, one day gave him four louis d'or for a marine. Yet his ardor
and enthusiasm were unabated; on the contrary, he studied with the greatest assiduity, striving
to perfect himself in his art, and feeling confident that his talents would ultimately command
a just reward.

VERNET'S "ALPHABET OF TONES."

It was the custom of Vernet to rise with the lark, and he often walked forth before dawn and
spent the whole day in wandering about the surrounding country, to study the ever changing
face of nature. He watched the various hues presented by the horizon at different hours of
the day. He soon found that with all his powers of observation and pencil, great and impassioned
as they were, he could not keep pace with the rapidly changing and evanescent hues of the morning
and evening sky. He began to despair of ever being able to represent on canvass the moving
harmony of those pictures which nature required so little time to execute in such perfection,
and which so quickly passed away. At length, after long contemplating how he could best succeed
in catching and transferring these furtive tints to his canvass, bethought himself of a contrivance
which he called his Alphabet of tones, and which is described by Renou in his "Art de Peindre."

The various characters of this alphabet are joined together, and correspond to an equal number
of different tints; if Vernet saw the sun rise silvery and fresh, or set in the colors of crimson;
or if he saw a storm approaching or disappearing, he opened his table and set down the gradations
of the tones he admired, as quickly as he could write ten or twelve letters on a piece of paper.
After having thus noted down in short hand, the beauties of the sky and the accidental effects
of nature, he returned to his studio, and endeavored to make stationary on canvass the moving
picture he had just been contemplating. Effects which had long disappeared were thus recomposed
in all their charming harmony to delight the eye of every lover of painting.

VERNET AND THE CONNOISSEUR.

Vernet relates, that he was once employed to paint a landscape, with a cave, and St. Jerome
in it; he accordingly painted the landscape, with St. Jerome at the entrance of the cave. When
he delivered the picture, the purchaser, who understood nothing of perspective, said, "the
landscape and the cave are well made, but St. Jerome is not in the cave." "I understand you,
Sir," replied Vernet, "I will alter it." He therefore took the painting, and made the shade
darker, so that the saint seemed to sit farther in. The gentleman took the painting; but it
again appeared to him that the saint was not in the cave. Vernet then wiped out the figure,
and gave it to the gentleman, who seemed perfectly satisfied. Whenever he saw strangers to
whom he shewed the picture, he said, "Here you see a picture by Vernet, with St. Jerome in
the cave." "But we cannot see the saint," replied the visitors. "Excuse me, gentlemen," answered
the possessor, "he is there; for I have seen him standing at the entrance, and afterwards farther
back; and am therefore quite sure that he is in it."

VERNET'S WORKS.

Far from confining himself within the narrow limits of one branch of his profession, Vernet
determined to take as wide a range as possible. At Rome, he made the acquaintance of Lucatelli,
Pannini, and Solimene. Like them, he studied the splendid ruins of the architecture of ancient
Rome, and the noble landscapes of its environs, together with every interesting scene and object,
especially the celebrated cascades of Tivoli. He paid particular attention to the proportions
and attitudes of his figures, which were mostly those of fishermen and lazzaroni, as well as
to the picturesque appearance of their costume. Such love of nature and of art, such assiduous
study of nature at different hours of the day, of the phenomena of light, and such profound
study of the numerous accessories essential to beauty and effect, made an excellent landscape
painter of Vernet, though his fame rests chiefly on the unrivalled excellence of his marine
subjects. Diderot remarks, that "though he was undoubtedly inferior to Claude Lorraine in producing
bold and luminous effects, he was quite equal to that great painter in rendering the effects
of vapor, and superior to him in the invention of scenes, in designing figures, and in the
variety of his incidents."

At a later period, Diderot compared his favorite painter to the Jupiter of Lucian, who, tired
of listening to the lamentable cries of mankind, rose from table and exclaimed: 'Let it hail
in Thrace!' and the trees were immediately stripped of their leaves, the heaviest cut to pieces,
and the thatch of the houses scattered before the wind: then he said, "Let the plague fall
on Asia!" and the doors of the houses were immediately closed, the streets were deserted, and
men shunned one another; and again he exclaimed: 'Let a volcano appear here!' and the earth
immediately shook, the buildings were thrown down, the animals were terrified, and the inhabitants
fled into the surrounding country; and on his crying out: 'Let this place be visited with a
death!' the old husbandman died of want at his door. Jupiter calls that governing the world,
but he was wrong. Vernet calls it painting pictures, and he is right.

It was with reference to the twenty-five paintings exhibited by Vernet, in 1765, that Diderot
penned the foregoing lines, which formed the peroration to an eloquent and lengthy eulogium,
such as it rarely falls to a painter to be the subject of. Among other things, the great critic
there says: "There is hardly a single one of his compositions which any painter would have
taken not less than two years to execute, however well he might have employed his time. What
incredible effects of light do we not behold in them! What magnificent skies! what water! what
ordonnance! what prodigious variety in the scenes! Here, we see a child borne off on the shoulders
of his father, after having been saved from a watery grave; while there, lies a woman dead
upon the beach, with her forlorn and widowed husband weeping at her side. The sea roars, the
wind bowls, the thunder fills the air with its peals, and the pale and sombre glimmers of the
lightning that shoots incessantly through the sky, illuminate and hide the scene in turn. It
appears as if you heard the sides of the ship crack, so natural does it look with its broken
masts and lacerated sails; the persons on deck are stretching their hands toward heaven, while
others have thrown themselves into the sea. The latter are swept by the waves against the neighboring
rocks, where their blood mingles with the white foam of the raging billows. Some, too, are
floating on the surface of the sea, some are about to sink, and some are endeavoring to reach
the shore, against which they will be inevitably dashed to pieces. The same variety of character,
action, and expression is observable among the spectators, some of whom are turning aside with
a shudder, some are doing their utmost to assist the drowning persons, while others remain
motionless and are merely looking on. A few persons have made a fire beneath a rock, and are
endeavoring to revive a woman, who is apparently expiring. But now turn your eyes, reader,
towards another picture, and you will there see a calm, with all its charms. The waters, which
are tranquil, smooth, and cheerful-looking, insensibly lose their transparency as they extend
further from the sight, while their surface gradually assumes a lighter tint, as they roll
from the shore to the horizon. The ships are motionless, and the sailors and passengers are
whiling away the time in various amusements. If it is morning, what light vapors are seen rising
all around! and how they have refreshed and vivified every object they have fallen on! If it
is evening, what a golden tint do the tops of the mountains assume! How various, too, are the
hues of the sky! And how gently do the clouds move along, as they cast the reflection of their
different colors into the sea! Go, reader, into the country, lift your eyes up towards the
azure vault of heaven, observe well the phenomena you then see there, and you will think that
a large piece of the canvass lighted by the sun himself has been cut out and placed upon the
easel of the artist: or form your hand into a tube, so that, by looking through it, you will
only be able to see a limited space of the canvass painted by nature, and you will at once
fancy that you are gazing on one of Vernet's pictures which has been taken from off his easel
and placed in the sky. His nights, too, are as touching as his days are fine; while his ports
are as fine as his imaginative pieces are piquant. He is equally wonderful, whether he employs
his pencil to depict a subject of everyday life, or he abandons himself completely to his imagination;
and he is equally incomprehensible, whether he employs the orb of day or the orb of night,
natural or artificial lights, to light his pictures with: he is always bold, harmonious, and
staid, like those great poets whose judgment balances all things so well, that they are never
either exaggerated or cold. His fabrics, edifices, costumes, actions, men and animals are all
true. When near, he astonishes you, and, at a distance, he astonishes you still more."

VERNET'S PASSION FOR MUSIC

Vernet, notwithstanding he loved to depict the sea in its most convulsed and terrible aspects,
was a perfect gentleman of the French school, whose manners were most amiable and engaging.
What he most loved after painting was music. He had formed at Rome, an intimate friendship
with Pergolesi, the composer, who afterwards became so celebrated, and they lived almost continually
together. Vernet placed a harpsichord in his studio for the express use of his friend, and
while the painter, carried away by his imagination, put the waters of the mighty main into
commotion, or suspended persons on the towering waves, the grave composer sought, with the
tips of his fingers, for the rudiments of his immortal melodies. It was thus that the melancholy
stanzas of that chef d'oeuvre of sadness and sorrow, the Stabat-Mater, were composed for a
little convent in which one of Pergolesi's sisters resided. It seems to one that while listening
to this plaintive music, Vernet must have given a more mellow tint to his painting; and it
was, perhaps, while under its influence, that he worked at his calms and moonlights, or, making
a truce with the roaring billows of the sea, painted it tranquil and smooth, and represented
on the shore nothing but motionless fishermen, sailors seated between the carriages of two
cannons, and whiling away the time by relating their travels to one another, or else stretched
on the grass in so quiescent a state, that the spectator himself becomes motionless while gazing
on them.

Pergolesi died in the arms of Joseph Vernet, who could never after hear the name of his friend
pronounced, without being moved to tears. He religiously preserved the scraps of paper, on
which he had seen the music of the Stabat-Mater dotted down before his eyes, and brought them
with him to France in 1752, at which period he was sent for by the Marquis de Marigny, after
an absence of twenty years. Vernet's love for music procured Grétry a hearty welcome, when
the young composer came to Paris. Vernet discovered his talent, and predicted his success.
Some of Grétry's features, his delicate constitution, and, above all, several of his simple
and expressive airs, reminded the painter of the immortal man to whom music owes so large a
portion of its present importance; for it was Pergolesi who first introduced in Italy the custom
of paying such strict attention to the sense of the words and to the choice of the accompaniments.

VERNET'S OPINION OF HIS OWN MERITS.

Though Vernet rose to great distinction, he was never fully appreciated till long after his
decease. At the present day, he is placed in the first rank of marine painters, not only by
his own countrymen, but by every other nation. He himself pronounced judgment on his own merits,
the justness of which, posterity has sanctioned. The sentence deserves to be preserved, for
it is great. Comparing himself to the great painters, his rivals, he says, "If you ask me whether
I painted skies better than such and such an artist, I should answer 'no!' or figures better
than any one else, I should also say 'no!' or trees and landscapes better than others, still
I should answer 'no!' or fogs, water, and vapors better than others, my answer would ever be
the same but though inferior to each of them in one branch of the art, I surpass them in all
the others."

CURIOUS LETTER OF VERNET.

The Marquis de Marigny, like his sister, Madame de Pompadour, loved and protected the arts.
It was mainly through his influence that Vernet was invited to Paris in 1752, and commissioned
to paint the sea-ports of France. No one could have been found better fitted for the ungrateful
task, which, though offering so few resources, required so much knowledge. Thus imprisoned
in official programme, Vernet must have felt ill at ease, if we may judge from a letter which
he wrote to the Marquis at a subsequent period, with respect to another order. Indeed, the
truth of his remarks were verified in the very series just mentioned, which are not considered
among his happiest productions. The following is the main part of the letter referred to, dated
May 6th, 1765:

     "I am not accustomed to make sketches for my pictures. My general
     practice is to compose on the canvass of the picture I am about to
     execute, and to paint it immediately, while my imagination is still
     warm with conception; the size, too, of my canvas tells me at once
     what I have to do, and makes me compose accordingly. I am sure, if
     I made a sketch beforehand, that I should not only not put in it
     what might be in the picture, but that I should also throw into it
     all the fire I possess, and the larger picture would, in
     consequence, become cold. This would also be making a sort of copy,
     which it would annoy me to do. Thus, sir, after thoroughly weighing
     and examining everything, I think it best that I should be left
     free to act as I like. This is what I require from all those for
     whom I wish to do my best; and this is also what I beg your friend
     towards whom I am desirous of acting conscientiously, to let me do.
     He can tell me what size he wishes the picture to be, with the
     general subject of it, such as calm, tempest, sun-rise, sun-set,
     moon-light, landscape, marine-piece, etc., but nothing more.
     Experience has taught me that, when I am constrained by the least
     thing, I always succeed worse than generally.

     "If you wish to know the usual prices of my pictures, they are as
     follows:--For every one four feet wide, and two and a half, or
     three high, £60, for every one three feet wide, and of a
     proportionate height, £48; for every one two feet and a half wide
     £40; for every one two feet wide, £32; and for every one eighteen
     inches wide, £24, with larger or smaller ones as required; but it
     is as well to mention that I succeed much better with the large
     ones."

CHARLES VERNET.

Antoine Charles Horace Vernet was the son of Claude Joseph Vernet, and born at Bordeaux in
1758. He acquired distinction as a painter, and was made a Chevalier of the Legion of Honor,
and of the order of St Michael. He chiefly excelled in battle and parade pieces of large dimensions;
and he thus commemorated the battles of Rivoli, Marengo, Austerlitz, Wagram, the Departure
of the Marshals, and other events of French history which occurred during his artistical career.
More pleasing to many are his smaller pictures, mostly referring to battles and camps. He was
uncommonly successful in depicting the horse, and there are numerous equestrian portraits by
him, which are greatly admired. His studies from nature, and his hunting pieces, for vivacity,
spirit, and boldness of conception, are only rivaled by those of his son Horace. Many of his
works have been lithographed; the twenty-eight plates in folio, illustrating the Campaign of
Bonaparte in Italy, are esteemed among his most successful efforts. He died in 1836.

ANECDOTE OF CHARLES VERNET.

A short time before his death, Charles Vernet, having some business to transact with one of
the public functionaries, called at his office and sent in his card. The minister left him
waiting two whole hours in the anteroom before he admitted him to his presence, when the business
was quickly dispatched. Meeting Vernet at a soiree soon afterwards, the minister apologized
for his apparent neglect, which not appearing very satisfactory to the veteran painter, he
mildly rebuked him by observing, "It is of no consequence, sir, but permit me to say that I
think a little more respect should have been shown to the son of Joseph and the father of Horace
Vernet."

M. DE LASSON'S CARICATURE.

A Norman priest, who lived in the middle of the seventeenth century, named the Abbé Malotru,
was remarkably deformed in his figure, and ridiculous in his dress. One day, while he was performing
mass, he observed a smile of contempt on the face of M. de Lasson, which irritated him so much
that the moment the service was over, he instituted a process against him. Lasson possessed
the talent of caricature drawing: he sketched a figure of the ill-made priest, accoutred, as
he used to be, in half a dozen black caps over one another, nine waistcoats, and as many pair
of breeches. When the court before whom he was cited urged him to produce his defense, he suddenly
exhibited his Abbé Malotru, and the irresistible laughter which it occasioned insured his acquittal.

FRANK HALS AND VANDYKE.

In the early part of Frank Hals' life, to accommodate his countrymen, who were sparing both
of their time and money, he painted portraits for a low price at one sitting in a single hour.
Vandyke on his way to Rome, passing through the place, sat his hour as a stranger to the rapid
portrait painter. Hals had seen some of the works of Vandyke, but was unacquainted with his
person. When the picture was finished, Vandyke, assuming a silly manner, said it appeared to
be easy work, and that he thought he could do it. Hals, thinking to have some fun, consented
to sit an hour precisely by the clock, and not to rise or look at what he fully expected to
find a laughable daub. Vandyke began his work; Hals looked like a sitter. At the close, the
wag rose with all his risible muscles prepared for a hearty laugh; but when he saw the splendid
sketch, he started, looked, and exclaimed, "You must be either Vandyke or the Devil!"