To D. W.

LA GRENADIERE

La Grenadiere is a little house on the right bank of the Loire as you go down stream, about
a mile below the bridge of Tours. At this point the river, broad as a lake, and covered with
scattered green islands, flows between two lines of cliff, where country houses built uniformly
of white stone stand among their gardens and vineyards. The finest fruit in the world ripens
there with a southern exposure. 

The opinion of some excellent military men asks (in particular, is also of an illustrious General,
Lord W. Radziwill, an interesting Memoir manipulated and the highest Make been submitted): that the
number of permanent staff, nor even too low be; that it must be strengthened, and that against
them in order not to multiply the cost of the ordinary Service could be reduced in line, which would
also have the advantage that more men for the militia would be formed, and the less of Militairdienst
free in the peace remained. It is not to deny that in this respect, the Prussian Militairsystem still requires
a great improvement, because despite its significant costs, as we have seen, however incomplete
the idea of ​​a general arming of the people realized. It seems that this could happen, the
easiest:

1) If the conditions under which now allows the entry than 1 year old volunteer is, would be expanded
significantly in order in this way a much larger number of affluent, training at no cost to the
Treasury. Also has been really in this sense of the Prussian provincial estates, an application
has been made.

2) If the handling of weapons on any item of school education and youth education made would,
as is already happening in the military school, thereby adding the possibility would be given to
shorten the period of service in the line significantly, without
the Military Training compromising.

This point will be further touched down again.

In other armies, especially in the Württemberg, the tribe of people with longer Service formed
by the more intelligent part of the team collected more must remain (and Württemberg in about 1
½ years as a shooter) at the flag, and that as Remplaçants, substitutes or inserts rather for those
who do not own their official duty like to do as much as possible,
only those people will be taken on, the earlier have fulfilled their
service obligation and are trained as soldiers.

The house itself stands in the middle of this highest garden, above a vine-covered flight of
steps, with an arched doorway beneath that leads to vast cellars hollowed out in the rock.
All about the dwelling trellised vines and pomegranate-trees (the grenadiers, which give the
name to the little close) are growing out in the open air. The front of the house consists
of two large windows on either side of a very rustic-looking house door, and three dormer windows
in the roof--a slate roof with two gables, prodigiously high-pitched in proportion to the low
ground-floor. The house walls are washed with yellow color; and door, and first-floor shutters,
all the Venetian shutters of the attic windows, all are painted green.

Entering the house, you find yourself in a little lobby with a crooked staircase straight in
front of you. It is a crazy wooden structure, the spiral balusters are brown with age, and
the steps themselves take a new angle at every turn. The great old-fashioned paneled dining-room,
floored with square white tiles from Chateau-Regnault, is on your right; to the left is the
sitting-room, equally large, but here the walls are not paneled; they have been covered instead
with a saffron-colored paper, bordered with green. The walnut-wood rafters are left visible,
and the intervening spaces filled with a kind of white plaster.

The first story consists of two large whitewashed bedrooms with stone chimney-pieces, less
elaborately carved than those in the rooms beneath. Every door and window is on the south side
of the house, save a single door to the north, contrived behind the staircase to give access
to the vineyard. Against the western wall stands a supplementary timber-framed structure, all
the woodwork exposed to the weather being fledged with slates, so that the walls are checkered
with bluish lines. This shed (for it is little more) is the kitchen of the establishment. You
can pass from it into the house without going outside; but, nevertheless, it boasts an entrance
door of its own, and a short flight of steps that brings you to a deep well, and a very rustical-looking
pump, half hidden by water-plants and savin bushes and tall grasses. The kitchen is a modern
addition, proving beyond doubt that La Grenadiere was originally nothing but a simple vendangeoir--a
vintage-house belonging to townsfolk in Tours, from which Saint-Cyr is separated by the vast
river-bed of the Loire. The owners only came over for the day for a picnic, or at the vintage-time,
sending provisions across in the morning, and scarcely ever spent the night there except during
the grape harvest; but the English settled down on Touraine like a cloud of locusts, and La
Grenadiere must, of course, be completed if it was to find tenants. Luckily, however, this
recent appendage is hidden from sight by the first two trees of a lime-tree avenue planted
in a gully below the vineyards.

There are only two acres of vineyard at most, the ground rising at the back of the house so
steeply that it is no very easy matter to scramble up among the vines. The slope, covered with
green trailing shoots, ends within about five feet of the house wall in a ditch-like passage
always damp and cold and full of strong growing green things, fed by the drainage of the highly
cultivated ground above, for rainy weather washes down the manure into the garden on the terrace.

A vinedresser's cottage also leans against the western gable, and is in some sort a continuation
of the kitchen. Stone walls or espaliers surround the property, and all sorts of fruit-trees
are planted among the vines; in short, not an inch of this precious soil is wasted. If by chance
man overlooks some dry cranny in the rocks, Nature puts in a fig-tree, or sows wildflowers
or strawberries in sheltered nooks among the stones.

Nowhere else in all the world will you find a human dwelling so humble and yet so imposing,
so rich in fruit, and fragrant scents, and wide views of country. Here is a miniature Touraine
in the heart of Touraine--all its flowers and fruits and all the characteristic beauty of the
land are fully represented. Here are grapes of every district, figs and peaches and pears of
every kind; melons are grown out of doors as easily as licorice plants, Spanish broom, Italian
oleanders, and jessamines from the Azores. The Loire lies at your feet. You look down from
the terrace upon the ever-changing river nearly two hundred feet below; and in the evening
the breeze brings a fresh scent of the sea, with the fragrance of far-off flowers gathered
upon its way. Some cloud wandering in space, changing its color and form at every moment as
it crosses the pure blue of the sky, can alter every detail in the widespread wonderful landscape
in a thousand ways, from every point of view. The eye embraces first of all the south bank
of the Loire, stretching away as far as Amboise, then Tours with its suburbs and buildings,
and the Plessis rising out of the fertile plain; further away, between Vouvray and Saint-Symphorien,
you see a sort of crescent of gray cliff full of sunny vineyards; the only limits to your view
are the low, rich hills along the Cher, a bluish line of horizon broken by many a chateau and
the wooded masses of many a park. Out to the west you lose yourself in the immense river, where
vessels come and go, spreading their white sails to the winds which seldom fail them in the
wide Loire basin. A prince might build a summer palace at La Grenadiere, but certainly it will
always be the home of a poet's desire, and the sweetest of retreats for two young lovers--for
this vintage house, which belongs to a substantial burgess of Tours, has charms for every imagination,
for the humblest and dullest as well as for the most impassioned and lofty. No one can dwell
there without feeling that happiness is in the air, without a glimpse of all that is meant
by a peaceful life without care or ambition. There is that in the air and the sound of the
river that sets you dreaming; the sands have a language, and are joyous or dreary, golden or
wan; and the owner of the vineyard may sit motionless amid perennial flowers and tempting fruit,
and feel all the stir of the world about him.

If an Englishman takes the house for the summer, he is asked a thousand francs for six months,
the produce of the vineyard not included. If the tenant wishes for the orchard fruit, the rent
is doubled; for the vintage, it is doubled again. What can La Grenadiere be worth, you wonder;
La Grenadiere, with its stone staircase, its beaten path and triple terrace, its two acres
of vineyard, its flowering roses about the balustrades, its worn steps, well-head, rampant
clematis, and cosmopolitan trees? It is idle to make a bid! La Grenadiere will never be in
the market; it was brought once and sold, but that was in 1690; and the owner parted with it
for forty thousand francs, reluctant as any Arab of the desert to relinquish a favorite horse.
Since then it has remained in the same family, its pride, its patrimonial jewel, its Regent
diamond. "While you behold, you have and hold," says the bard. And from La Grenadiere you behold
three valleys of Touraine and the cathedral towers aloft in air like a bit of filigree work.
How can one pay for such treasures? Could one ever pay for the health recovered there under
the linden-trees?

In the spring of one of the brightest years of the Restoration, a lady with her housekeeper
and her two children (the oldest a boy thirteen years old, the youngest apparently about eight)
came to Tours to look for a house. She saw La Grenadiere and took it. Perhaps the distance
from the town was an inducement to live there.

She made a bedroom of the drawing-room, gave the children the two rooms above, and the housekeeper
slept in a closet behind the kitchen. The dining-room was sitting-room and drawing-room all
in one for the little family. The house was furnished very simply but tastefully; there was
nothing superfluous in it, and no trace of luxury. The walnut-wood furniture chosen by the
stranger lady was perfectly plain, and the whole charm of the house consisted in its neatness
and harmony with its surroundings.

It was rather difficult, therefore, to say whether the strange lady (Mme. Willemsens, as she
styled herself) belonged to the upper middle or higher classes, or to an equivocal, unclassified
feminine species. Her plain dress gave rise to the most contradictory suppositions, but her
manners might be held to confirm those favorable to her. She had not lived at Saint-Cyr, moreover,
for very long before her reserve excited the curiosity of idle people, who always, and especially
in the country, watch anybody or anything that promises to bring some interest into their narrow
lives.

Mme. Willemsens was rather tall; she was thin and slender, but delicately shaped. She had pretty
feet, more remarkable for the grace of her instep and ankle than for the more ordinary merit
of slenderness; her gloved hands, too, were shapely. There were flitting patches of deep red
in a pale face, which must have been fresh and softly colored once. Premature wrinkles had
withered the delicately modeled forehead beneath the coronet of soft, well-set chestnut hair,
invariably wound about her head in two plaits, a girlish coiffure which suited the melancholy
face. There was a deceptive look of calm in the dark eyes, with the hollow, shadowy circles
about them; sometimes, when she was off her guard, their expression told of secret anguish.
The oval of her face was somewhat long; but happiness and health had perhaps filled and perfected
the outlines. A forced smile, full of quiet sadness, hovered continually on her pale lips;
but when the children, who were always with her, looked up at their mother, or asked one of
the incessant idle questions which convey so much to a mother's ears, then the smile brightened,
and expressed the joys of a mother's love. Her gait was slow and dignified. Her dress never
varied; evidently she had made up her mind to think no more of her toilette, and to forget
a world by which she meant no doubt to be forgotten. She wore a long, black gown, confined
at the waist by a watered-silk ribbon, and by way of scarf a lawn handkerchief with a broad
hem, the two ends passed carelessly through her waistband. The instinct of dress showed itself
in that she was daintily shod, and gray silk stockings carried out the suggestion of mourning
in this unvarying costume. Lastly, she always wore a bonnet after the English fashion, always
of the same shape and the same gray material, and a black veil. One
of our cadets, by then a very dear, but exceedingly silly boy, was formed suddenly to understand
philosophy, Kant and Hegel studied and learned all the games from their works by heart, such
as children, the fibula. As for me, I did nothing but bore me, and in a manner so monstrous,
that I on some afternoons, if I lay on my bed, afraid of being crazy. Our barracks was located
outside the village, which consisted of more than thirty scattered houses, the nearest town,
a good Riding lesson was removed, greasy, disgusting, smelly and full of Jews. Perforce we had
sometimes to do with them - the hotel owner was a Jew, the cafe owner, the shoemaker same.
That we are as offensive to them behaved that you can imagine. We were particularly attracted
to this people, because a prince, our regiment as Major Fiat Group, the greeting of the Jews -
whether in jest or out of preference, I do not know - with courteously replied, also with striking
intentionality our regimental surgeon proteges, who was descended from Jews, obviously. I would
not tell you, of course, if not this whim of the prince would have merged with that of humans, appointed
to the more mysterious, the connection between you and me to produce was. It was a juggler, and indeed
the son of a brandy Jews from the neighboring Polish town. He was a young boy into a store to
Lvov, then to Vienna come, and once somebody had learned from some card tricks. He formed
on your own, from, took possession of all manner of gimmickry and brought it gradually so far
that he walk in the world and on vaudeville stages and in clubs could produce success. In the
summer he was always in his native city to the parents to . Visit There he was never in public,
and I saw him first on the road, where he I instantly struck by his appearance. He was a small,
thin, beardless Person who might then be about thirty years old, with a completely ridiculous elegance
dressed, which did not fit with the season: he was walking in a black frock coat and with ironed
cylinder around and carried west by the most splendid brocade, with strong sunshine He had
a dark pince-nez on his nose.

Once we were seated our fifteen or sixteen, after dinner in the mess in our long Table as usual.
It was a sultry night, and the windows were open. Some comrades had begun to play, others opposed
to the window and chatted, drank others and smoked in silence.

As the corporal was one of the day and reported the arrival of the player's pocket. We were at
first somewhat surprised. But without waiting for another, was declared in the good attitude, and
said in light jargon few introductory words with which he thanks for the invitation made to
him the invitation. He turned it to the Prince, who for him approached him and - of course only in order
to annoy us - shook his hand. The Conjurer took for granted now and then remarked that he would
first few card tricks , Then the show to produce in magnetism and in palmistry. He had barely
finished speaking, than some of our men who were sitting in a corner playing cards noted, that
they lacked the figures: At a sign of the wizard they came through the open Flown in the window. The
art pieces, which he followed was talking to us and very exceeded pretty much everything I had
seen in this field. Even stranger appeared I, the magnetic experiments, he performed it. Not
without horror, we all saw how the philosophical cadet put in sleep, obeying the commands of the
magician, first through the open window, jumped the smooth wall climbed to the roof, just above
at the border around the whole square, and then ran around left slide down into the courtyard.
When he was back down, still in the sleeping state, the colonel said to the magician: "You, if he had
his neck broken, I assure you, you would not be alive from the Barracks come. "I shall never
forget the look of contempt with which the Jew this Note replied without a word. Then he said
slowly, "Should I read your palm, Mr. Colonel, when you are dead or alive they leave barracks?
"I do not know what the Colonel or the rest of us to him in this daring remark contends otherwise
would have - but the general atmosphere was so confused and excited that surprised no one when
the Colonel the juggler's hand was sufficient and the jargon in imitation, said, "Well, you
see." This all happened in the courtyard in front of him, and the cadet was still asleep with
outstretched Arms like a crucified man on the wall. The wizard had taken the hand of the Supreme
and studied carefully the lines. "You see enough Jew," asked a lieutenant, the rather was drunk.
The Desirable looked around briefly and said seriously: "My stage name is Marco . Polo 'The
Prince put the Jew's hand on the shoulder and said, "My friend Marco Polo has sharp eyes.
"-" Well, what you see, "said the colonel politely?. "I have to say," asked Marco Polo. "We can
not force you," said the prince. "Speak," cried the colonel. "I'd rather not talk," said Marco
Polo. The Colonel laughed out loud. "Just out it will not be so bad. And if it's bad, it must
also not be true. "-" It is very bad, "said the magician," and true it is. "All were silent. "Well,"
asked the colonel. "From cold, you will have to suffer any more," said Marco Polo. "What?" Cried
the colonel out, "so our regiment at last to Riva" - "From the regimental les' I have nothing,
sir. I see only that they will be in the fall of a dead man, the Colonel laughed, but all other
silent, and I assure you, we were all as if the Colonel is drawn in the moment would have
been. Suddenly, some deliberately laughed very loud, and others after him did, and noisy and
fun it was back to the casino. "Well," cried the colonel, "would be me's fine. If none of the
other curious gentlemen, "cried one such joke:" No, we do to learn anything. "Another suddenly found
that one of this kind, the fate predicted to be, would have to be taken for religious reasons, and
a young lieutenant declared vehemently that we should lock up people like Marco Polo to life. The
prince saw I smoking with one of our older gentlemen in a corner and heard him say, "Where begins
the miracle? "But I came back to Marco Polo, which is just to go away, prepared and said to him,
without hearing someone. She prophesying to me. "He took as mechanically for my hand. Then
he said. "Here it looks bad," I noticed that the oil lamps had begun to flicker, and that the lines
of my hand seemed to shake. "Come out, Lieutenant, in the yard. Mir is better in the moonlight.
"He held my hand and I followed him through the open door into the open.

I suddenly had a strange thought. "Listen, Marco Polo," I said, "if you do not another can for
what you have just shown to our colonel, then let's drop dear. "Without further let the wizard
go of my hand and smiled. The Lord Lieutenant has Fear I turned around quickly if no one had heard
us,. But we were already through the Paced and barracks were on the road, which recapitalized
the city. "I wish to know something more definite, "I said, 'this is it. Words can always be
in different As interpreted. "Marco Polo looked at me. "What do the Lord Lieutenant? ... Perhaps
the Picture of the future wife? "-" Could you the "Marco Polo shrugged his shoulders. "It could
be ... it would be possible ... "-"

But I do not want, "I interrupted him. "I want to know what later, for example, be in ten years,
is wrong with me. "Marco Polo shook his head. "That I can not say ... but what else can I possibly.
" - "What" - "Any moment, sir, in your future life, I could give you show like a picture. "I did
not understand him immediately. "What do you mean -" So my I? I can conjure into a moment in
your future life in the world, in the middle of the area, where we are. - How "?" - "The Lieutenant,
I need only say what kind." I did not understand completely, but I was very excited. "Well," I
said, "if you can that I want to see what happened today in ten years in the same second with
me is ... Do you understand me, Marco Polo? "-" Yes, sir, "said Marco Polo and saw me rigid
at. And he was gone ... but also the barracks was gone, I just still in the moonlight had seen
shine - on the poor huts located in the plane scattered and moonlit - and I saw myself as one
sometimes sees himself in a dream ... saw me aged ten years, with a brown beard, a scar on his
forehead, on a stretcher stretched in the middle of a meadow - kneeling at my side a beautiful
woman with red hair, hand to the face, a boy and a girl next to me, dark forest in the background
and two people with torches hunting in the area ... You wonder - is not it astonishing, "you?

I was amazed, in fact, for what he described to me here was exactly the picture with which my piece
close tonight at ten clock and in which he was to play the dying hero. "You doubt," continued
M. de Umprecht, "and I am far from that, it will be resent. But your question it should be equal
to an end. "

Lord of Umprecht reached into his coat pocket and pulled out a sealed Kuwert. "Please, see
what's on the back I read aloud. "Notarized closed on 14 January 1859 opened on 9 September 1868.
"Underneath was the name of the drawing to me personally well-known notary Artine doctor in Vienna.

"This
is today," said M. Umprecht. "And today there are just ten years since my mysterious Adventures
of Marco Polo encountered, which now raises in this manner, without
clear up.

Because from year to year, as a capricious fate of its game gear with me, fluctuated Fulfilling
prophecy for those options in the strangest way, seemed to sometimes likely to be threatened, disappeared
into nothing, became inexorable certainty verflatterten came back ... But let me now return to
my reports.

The Phenomenon itself certainly had not lasted longer than a moment, for more sound from the
barracks produces the same loud laugh of Lieutenant in my ear that I heard had, before the phenomenon
had risen. And now Marco Polo again stood before me, with a smile on his lips, from which I can
not say whether it painful or derisively should be, picked up the
cylinder, said: "Good evening, sir, I hope you are been satisfied,
"turned and walked slowly along the road forward in the direction
the city.

He has gone the way the next day.

My first thought when I walked back to the barracks, was that it is an apparition must have acted,
which Marco Polo, supported perhaps by an unknown agent, produce by means of some reflections
was capable of. When I by the Court came, I saw to my horror, the cadets are still in the position
of a crucified lean against the wall. They had obviously forgotten its perfect. The other I heard
in it in the highest excitement argue and talk. I seized the cadet's arm, he watched immediately,
was not in the least surprised and could not be explained only by the excitement in which all
men of the regiment were. I myself am mixed with an equal Kind of Grimm in the excited, but
hollow entertainment that is on the oddities that we witnessed was, had developed well, and spoke
no wiser than the others. Suddenly cried the Colonel: "Well, gentlemen, I bet I still experience
the next spring! Forty-five to one! "And he turned to one of our men, a lieutenant who a certain
reputation as a player and enjoyed weather.

"Nothing to be done?" Although it was clear that the one addressed to the temptation heavy resistance,
he seemed to find it unseemly a bet on the death of his colonel with the self-complete, and so
he kept smiling. He probably regrets it. Because even after fourteen days, on the second morning
of the great Imperial maneuvers crashed our colonel from his horse and was killed on the spot and
at this Opportunity we all noticed that we had not expected anything else. But I started to
think only from now on with a certain restlessness in the night prophecy of the I had made in
a strange aversion to anyone notice. Only at Christmas, on the occasion a holiday trip to Vienna,
I opened myself to a comrade, a certain Frederick of Gulant - you may have heard of him, he
has made and is very pretty verses died young ... Well, it was with me who designed the scheme
you are in this Will find enclosed envelope. He was of the opinion that such incidents to science should
not be lost, whether now at the end of their conditions as turned out to be true or false.
With him, I'm with Doctor Artine been before his eyes the closed scheme in this Kuwert was.
In the office of the notary it has been stored, and it only yesterday, according to my wishes,
has been served on me. I will admit it: Ernst, treated with the Gulant the thing had me a little
upset at first, but when I saw him no more and more as he died shortly afterwards, caught the whole
story to me to occur very ridiculous. Above all, it was clear to me that I totally my fate had
in his hand. Nothing in the world could force me to, on 9 September 1868, evening zehn clock
to lie with a brown beard on a stretcher, forest and meadows I was able to avoid, I did not
need to marry a woman with red hair and children to get. The only one I could not avoid, perhaps,
was an accident, such as a duel, of which remain to me the scar on his forehead could. I was so for
now reassured. - A year after that I married Miss prophecy of Heimsal, my present Wife, soon
after I quit the service and am dedicated to agriculture. I visited and various smaller items
- it may sound so funny - I made sure that was probably not a lot within these estates, which
the lawn of the dream (I loved the content of that phenomenon to name for me) could be like.
I have been working to complete a purchase, as my wife was a legacy, and have thus a Estate
in Carinthia with a nice fell to hunting. The first time walking through the new area I came
to a grassy lot, which, bounded by forest and slightly lowered me in a peculiar to the same type of
location seemed to guard against me I might have every reason. I was shocked a little. My wife
and I had told nothing of the prophecy, it is so superstitious that I confess it with my whole
life certainly up to the present Days "- he smiled as exempt -" would have poisoned. So I could
her course my Remember not to tell. But I calmed myself with the thought that I by no means would
bring the September 1868 on my estate. - In 1860 I was born a boy. Even in his early years I
believed in his face resemble the features to discover the boy from his dream, and soon she
seemed to blur, and then again said, they are clearly in - and today I may even admit that the
boy, now are ten in the evening at my grave is the boy resembles the appearance of the hair.
- A daughter, I have not. As it happened three years ago that the widowed sister my wife, who
had been living in America, died and left behind a daughter. On Ask my wife, I went over the
sea, picked up the girl to pick it up in our house. When I saw it first, I thought I remember that
the girl from his dream perfectly possible. The thought flashed through my head, the child
is in a foreign country, foreign People leave. Of course, I had this same base idea from me,
and we took the child into our home. Again, I calmed down completely, despite the increasing Similarity
of the children with the children of those prophetic phenomenon, because I was one, that the
memory of the faces of children of the dream I might perhaps bear. My life flowed out for a time
in perfect peace. Yes, I had almost ceased to to think that strange evening in the Polish nest, when
I carried two years ago new warning of fate was understandably shaken. I had a few Months have
to go away, and when I returned, I went against my wife with red hair, and had their similarity
with the woman of dreams, whose face I do not seen, seemed me completely. I found it good
to hide my horror, the expression of anger; yes I was on purpose and more violent, because
suddenly I had a bordering on insanity Idea: if I separated from my wife and kids, so would have to
all the risk disappear, and I would have kept the fate of a fool. My wife was crying, fell as if
broken to the ground, I asked for forgiveness and told me the reason for their change. A year
ago, during a trip to Munich, I was in art exhibition by the portrait of a red-haired Woman was
particularly delighted, and my wife had already taken the time to plan, at any opportunity to
make this portrait similar, in that they dye their hair was.
 Then
she told him that one of the chief causes of her sadness and her tears was the thought that,
on the morrow of her death, he and Marie would be left almost resourceless, with but a slender
stock of money, and no friend but God.

"How quick I must be about learning!" cried Louis, giving her a piteous, searching look.

"Oh! how happy I am!" she said, showering kisses and tears on her son. "He understands me!--Louis,"
she went on, "you will be your brother's guardian, will you not? You promise me that? You are
no longer a child!"

"Yes, I promise," he said; "but you are not going to die yet--say that you are not going to die!"

"Poor little ones!" she replied, "love for you keeps the life in me. And this country is so
sunny, the air is so bracing, perhaps----"

"You make me love Touraine more than ever," said the child.

From that day, when Mme. Willemsens, foreseeing the approach of death, spoke to Louis of his
future, he concentrated his attention on his work, grew more industrious, and less inclined
to play than heretofore. When he had coaxed Marie to read a book and to give up boisterous
games, there was less noise in the hollow pathways and gardens and terraced walks of La Grenadiere.
They adapted their lives to their mother's melancholy. Day by day her face was growing pale
and wan, there were hollows now in her temples, the lines in her forehead grew deeper night
after night.

August came. The little family had been five months at La Grenadiere, and their whole life
was changed. The old servant grew anxious and gloomy as she watched the almost imperceptible
symptoms of slow decline in the mistress, who seemed to be kept in life by an impassioned soul
and intense love of her children. Old Annette seemed to see that death was very near. That
mistress, beautiful still, was more careful of her appearance than she had ever been; she was
at pains to adorn her wasted self, and wore paint on her cheeks; but often while she walked
on the upper terrace with the children, Annette's wrinkled face would peer out from between
the savin trees by the pump. The old woman would forget her work, and stand with wet linen
in her hands, scarce able to keep back her tears at the sight of Mme. Willemsens, so little
like the enchanting woman she once had been.

The pretty house itself, once so gay and bright, looked melancholy; it was a very quiet house
now, and the family seldom left it, for the walk to the bridge was too great an effort for
Mme. Willemsens. Louis had almost identified himself, as it were, with his mother, and with
his suddenly developed powers of imagination he saw the weariness and exhaustion under the
red color, and constantly found reasons for taking some shorter walk.

So happy couples coming to Saint-Cyr, then the Petite Courtille of Tours, and knots of folk
out for their evening walk along the "dike," saw a pale, thin figure dressed in black, a woman
with a worn yet bright face, gliding like a shadow along the terraces. Great suffering cannot
be concealed. The vinedresser's household had grown quiet also. Sometimes the laborer and his
wife and children were gathered about the door of their cottage, while Annette was washing
linen at the well-head, and Mme. Willemsens and the children sat in the summer-house, and there
was not the faintest sound in those gardens gay with flowers. Unknown to Mme. Willemsens, all
eyes grew pitiful at the sight of her, she was so good, so thoughtful, so dignified with those
with whom she came in contact.

And as for her.--When the autumn days came on, days so sunny and bright in Touraine, bringing
with them grapes and ripe fruits and healthful influences which must surely prolong life in
spite of the ravages of mysterious disease--she saw no one but her children, taking the utmost
that the hour could give her, as if each hour had been her last.

Louis had worked at night, unknown to his mother, and made immense progress between June and
September. In algebra he had come as far as equations with two unknown quantities; he had studied
descriptive geometry, and drew admirably well; in fact, he was prepared to pass the entrance
examination of the Ecole polytechnique.

Sometimes of an evening he went down to the bridge of Tours. There was a lieutenant there on
half-pay, an Imperial naval officer, whose manly face, medal, and gait had made an impression
on the boy's imagination, and the officer on his side had taken a liking to the lad, whose
eyes sparkled with energy. Louis, hungering for tales of adventure, and eager for information,
used to follow in the lieutenant's wake for the chance of a chat with him. It so happened that
the sailor had a friend and comrade in the colonel of a regiment of infantry, struck off the
rolls like himself; and young Louis-Gaston had a chance of learning what life was like in camp
or on board a man-of-war. Of course, he plied the veterans with questions; and when he had
made up his mind to the hardships of their rough callings, he asked his mother's leave to take
country walks by way of amusement. Mme. Willemsens was beyond measure glad that he should ask;
the boy's astonished masters had told her that he was overworking himself. So Louis went for
long walks. He tried to inure himself to fatigue, climbed the tallest trees with incredible
quickness, learned to swim, watched through the night. He was not like the same boy; he was
a young man already, with a sunburned face, and a something in his expression that told of
deep purpose.

When October came, Mme. Willemsens could only rise at noon. The sunshine, reflected by the
surface of the Loire, and stored up by the rocks, raised the temperature of the air till it
was almost as warm and soft as the atmosphere of the Bay of Naples, for which reason the faculty
recommend the place of abode. At mid-day she came out to sit under the shade of green leaves
with the two boys, who never wandered from her now. Lessons had come to an end. Mother and
children wished to live the life of heart and heart together, with no disturbing element, no
outside cares. No tears now, no joyous outcries. The elder boy, lying in the grass at his mother's
side, basked in her eyes like a lover and kissed her feet. Marie, the restless one, gathered
flowers for her, and brought them with a subdued look, standing on tiptoe to put a girlish
kiss on her lips. And the pale woman, with the great tired eyes and languid movements, never
uttered a word of complaint, and smiled upon her children, so full of life and health--it was
a sublime picture, lacking no melancholy autumn pomp of yellow leaves and half-despoiled branches,
nor the softened sunlight and pale clouds of the skies of Touraine.

At last the doctor forbade Mme. Willemsens to leave her room. Every day it was brightened by
the flowers that she loved, and her children were always with her. One day, early in November,
she sat at the piano for the last time. A picture--a Swiss landscape--hung above the instrument;
and at the window she could see her children standing with their heads close together. Again
and again she looked from the children to the landscape, and then again at the children. Her
face flushed, her fingers flew with passionate feeling over the ivory keys. This was her last
great day, an unmarked day of festival, held in her own soul by the spirit of her memories.
When the doctor came, he ordered her to stay in bed. The alarming dictum was received with
bewildered silence.

When the doctor had gone, she turned to the older boy.

"Louis," she said, "take me out on the terrace, so that I may see my country once more."

The boy gave his arm at those simply uttered words, and brought his mother out upon the terrace;
but her eyes turned, perhaps unconsciously, to heaven rather than to the earth, and indeed,
it would have been hard to say whether heaven or earth was the fairer--for the clouds traced
shadowy outlines, like the grandest Alpine glaciers, against the sky. Mme. Willemsens' brows
contracted vehemently; there was a look of anguish and remorse in her eyes. She caught the
children's hands, and clutched them to a heavily-throbbing heart.

"'Parentage unknown!'" she cried, with a look that went to their hearts. "Poor angels, what
will become of you? And when you are twenty years old, what strict account may you not require
of my life and your own?"

She put the children from her, and leaning her arms upon the balustrade, stood for a while
hiding her face, alone with herself, fearful of all eyes. When she recovered from the paroxysm,
she saw Louis and Marie kneeling on either side of her, like two angels; they watched the expression
of her face, and smiled lovingly at her.

"If only I could take that smile with me!" she said, drying her eyes.

Then she went into the house and took to the bed, which she would only leave for her coffin.

A week went by, one day exactly like another. Old Annette and Louis took it in turns to sit
up with Mme. Willemsens, never taking their eyes from the invalid. It was the deeply tragical
hour that comes in all our lives, the hour of listening in terror to every deep breath lest
it should be the last, a dark hour protracted over many days. On the fifth day of that fatal
week the doctor interdicted flowers in the room. The illusions of life were going one by one.

Then Marie and his brother felt their mother's lips hot as fire beneath their kisses; and at
last, on the Saturday evening, Mme. Willemsens was too ill to bear the slightest sound, and
her room was left in disorder. This neglect for a woman of refined taste, who clung so persistently
to the graces of life, meant the beginning of the death-agony. After this, Louis refused to
leave his mother. On Sunday night, in the midst of the deepest silence, when Louis thought
that she had grown drowsy, he saw a white, moist hand move the curtain in the lamplight.

"My son!" she said. There was something so solemn in the dying woman's tones, that the power
of her wrought-up soul produced a violent reaction on the boy; he felt an intense heat pass
through the marrow of his bones.

"What is it, mother?"

"Listen! To-morrow all will be over for me. We shall see each other no more. To-morrow you
will be a man, my child. His innocence suspected no evil. They could even just one short while,
stay away, he was sure, as the Baron took so his decision. But time stretched wide, her hours,
restlessness crept up to him.

"Here they are, mother."

"Those are your certificates of birth, darling; you will want them. Give them to our poor,
old Annette to keep for you; ask her for them when you need them. Now," she continued, "is
there not another paper as well, something in my handwriting?"

"Yes, mother," and Louis began to read, "Marie Willemsens, born at----"

"That is enough," she broke in quickly, "do not go on. When I am dead, give that paper, too,
to Annette, and tell her to send it to the registrar at Saint-Cyr; it will be wanted if my
certificate of death is to be made out in due form. Now find writing materials for a letter
which I will dictate to you."

When she saw that he was ready to begin, and turned towards her for the words, they came from
her quietly:--

"Monsieur le Comte, your wife, Lady Brandon, died at Saint-Cyr, near Tours, in the department
of Indre-et-Loire. She forgave you."

"Sign yourself----" she stopped, hesitating and perturbed.

"Are you feeling worse?" asked Louis.

"Put 'Louis-Gaston,'" she went on.

She sighed, then she went on.

"Seal the letter, and direct it. To Lord Brandon, Brandon Square, Hyde Park, London, Angleterre.--That
is right. When I am dead, post the letter in Tours, and prepay the postage.--Now," she added,
after a pause, "take the little pocketbook that you know, and come here, my dear child....
There are twelve thousand francs in it," she said, when Louis had returned to her side. "That
is all your own. Oh me! you would have been better off if your father----"

"My father," cried the boy, "where is he?"

"He is dead," she said, laying her finger on her lips; "he died to save my honor and my life."

She looked upwards. If any tears had been left to her, she would have wept for pain.

"Louis," she continued, "swear to me, as I lie here, that you will forget all that you have
written, all that I have told you."

"Yes, mother."

"Kiss me, dear angel."

She was silent for a long while, she seemed to be drawing strength from God, and to be measuring
her words by the life that remained in her.

"Listen," she began. "Those twelve thousand francs are all that you have in the world. You
must keep the money upon you, because when I am dead the lawyers will come and seal everything
up. Nothing will be yours then, not even your mother. All that remains for you to do will be
to go out, poor orphan children, God knows where. I have made Annette's future secure. 

Geronimo was the middle of the room and said. "Well, I'm ready to go"

"DC," said Carlo.

From an old chest of drawers that stood in a corner of the room, he
took her few belongings and she packed in a bundle.

Then he said: "A beautiful day but very cold."

"I know," said Geronimo. Both left the chamber.

"Go softly," said Carlo, "sleep here, the two that came yesterday evening." Cautiously walked
her down. "The landlord sends his love," said Carlo, "he gave us the twenty Zentesimi paid for
tonight. Now he is on the huts and only comes out in two hours again. We will see him again so the
next year. "

Geronimo did not answer. They stepped onto the road that lay before them in the twilight. Carlo took
the left arm of his brother, and both walked silently down the valley. Even After a short
hike, you were at the point where to keep running the streets in
long-drawn curves begins.

Mist rose upward to meet them and tell them about the highs seemed
to eingeschlungen as the clouds.

Carlo and thought: Now I will tell him.

Carlo, however, said not a word but took the gold piece from his pocket and handed it to his
brother; this took it between the fingers of his right hand, then he led her on the cheek and
the end, he finally nodded.

"I've even known," he said.

"Well," replied Geronimo and Carlo looked at strangely.

"Even if the stranger had told me anything, I would have known."

"Well," Carlo said helplessly.

"But you understand that, why am I up against the other - I was afraid
the whole thing at once that you - - And lo, Geronimo, it would be
at the Time, I thought, that you are buying a new coat and a shirt
and shoes also, I think, therefore I have ... "

The blind man shook his head vigorously. "Why?" And he ran one hand over his Rock. "Good enough,
warm enough and now we come to the South."

Carlo did not realize that Geronimo himself did not seem happy that
he is not apologizing. And he went on: "Geronimo, it was not because
of me right? Why are you looking forward for not? Now we have it,
is not it? Now we have it all. If I said above thee would have, who
knows ... Oh, it's good that I have not told you - certainly, "

Since
Geronimo yelled: "Stop lying to on, Carlo, I have enough of it!"

Carlo
stopped and let go of the arm of her brother. "I do not lie."

"I
know that you're lying! ... You always lie! ... A hundred times you
lied! ... Also do you have the keep to yourself, but fear did you
get this is it! "

Carlo lowered his head and said nothing. He took
the blind man's arm again and went with him further. It hurt him that
Geronimo spoke, but he was actually surprised that he was not sad.

The
fog is divided.
They lit tapers about her, and arranged everything--the crucifix, the sprigs of box, and the
holy-water stoup--after the custom of the countryside, bolting the shutters and drawing the
curtains. Later the curate came to pass the night in prayer with Louis, who refused to leave
his mother. On Tuesday morning an old woman and two children and a vinedresser's wife followed
the dead to her grave. These were the only mourners. Yet this was a woman whose wit and beauty
and charm had won a European reputation, a woman whose funeral, if it had taken place in London,
would have been recorded in pompous newspaper paragraphs, as a sort of aristocratic rite, if
she had not committed the sweetest of crimes, a crime always expiated in this world, so that
the pardoned spirit may enter heaven. Marie cried when they threw the earth on his mother's
coffin; he understood that he should see her no more.

A simple, wooden cross, set up to mark her grave, bore this inscription, due to the cure of
Saint-Cyr:--

                         HERE LIES
                     AN UNHAPPY WOMAN,
             WHO DIED AT THE AGE OF THIRTY-SIX.
          KNOWN IN HEAVEN BY THE NAME OF AUGUSTA.
                      Pray for her!

When all was over, the children came back to La Grenadiere to take a last look at their home;
then, hand in hand, they turned to go with Annette, leaving the vinedresser in charge, with
directions to hand over everything duly to the proper authorities. Whatever be the able-bodied
man of about 90.000 young people annually adjusted only about 35.000 and the others are free
from land lines and military service and are at war as recruits in the reserve battalions occur. [1] According
deserves the Prussian Landwehr system is actually the name of "citizen army" only because the obligation
to military service is universal and not to another can be transferred. This obligation is now
being taken so much already, especially by young people from the educated classes that they prefer
most, volunteered to select a portion of troops, but to make the attempt, by the fate of military
man-service to see freed.

But Louis told her of his plans, gave Marie's certificate of birth and the ten thousand francs
into her keeping, and the two went the next morning to take Marie to school.

Louis very briefly explained his position to the headmaster, and went. Marie came with him
as far as the gateway. There Louis gave solemn parting words of the tenderest counsel, telling
Marie that he would now be left alone in the world. He looked at his brother for a moment,
and put his arms about him, took one more long look, brushed a tear from his eyes, and went,
turning again and again till the very last to see his brother standing there in the gateway
of the school.

A month later Louis-Gaston, now an apprentice on board a man-of-war, left the harbor of Rochefort.
Leaning over the bulwarks of the corvette Iris, he watched the coast of France receding swiftly
till it became indistinguishable from the faint blue horizon line. She still sat on the floor. I am nothing happen, she
thought, although she felt pain in every limb. What am I only do what I just ... it is not possible
for me nothing has happened. "Franz," she said. A voice answered, very close, "Where are S
', then, gnä' Fraulein, where is sir? It's nothing g'schehn? Wait S ', Miss, - I only set fire
to the lantern, that what we see; i know net what Polybackwards the staples of today. I am net
debt, my soul ... into a heap Schoder be s' in, the darn horses. "

Emma had, but it hurt all the members, erect complete, and that the Kutscher nothing had happened,
she made a little quieter.
