"I should say half a million dollars in a town like Raymond could be well spent in the establishment
of a paper such as we have in mind," he answered. His voice trembled a little. The keen look
on his grizzled face flashed out with a stern but thoroughly Christian anticipation of great
achievements in the world of newspaper life, as it had opened up to him within the last few
seconds.

"Then," said Virginia, speaking as if the thought was fully considered, "I am ready to put
that amount of money into the paper on the one condition, of course, that it be carried on
as it has been begun."

"Thank God!" exclaimed Mr. Maxwell softly. Norman was pale. The rest were looking at Virginia.
She had more to say.

"Dear friends," she went on, and there was a sadness in her voice that made an impression on
the rest that deepened when they thought it over afterwards, "I do not want any of you to credit
me with an act of great generosity. I have come to know lately that the money which I have
called my own is not mine, but God's. If I, as steward of His, see some wise way to invest
His money, it is not an occasion for vainglory or thanks from any one simply because I have
proved in my administration of the funds He has asked me to use for His glory. I have been
thinking of this very plan for some time. The fact is, dear friends, that in our coming fight
with the whiskey power in Raymond--and it has only just begun--we shall need the NEWS to champion
the Christian side. You all know that all the other papers are for the saloon. As long as the
saloon exists, the work of rescuing dying souls at the Rectangle is carried on at a terrible
disadvantage. What can Mr. Gray do with his gospel meetings when half his converts are drinking
people, daily tempted and enticed by the saloon on every corner? It would be giving up to the
enemy to allow the NEWS to fail. I have great confidence in Mr. Norman's ability. I have not
seen his plans, but I have the same confidence that he has in making the paper succeed if it
is carried forward on a large enough scale. I cannot believe that Christian intelligence in
journalism will be inferior to un-Christian intelligence, even when it comes to making the
paper pay financially. So that is my reason for putting this money--God's, not mine--into this
powerful agent for doing as Jesus would do. If we can keep such a paper going for one year,
I shall be willing to see that amount of money used in that experiment. Do not thank me. Do
not consider my doing it a wonderful thing. What have I done with God's money all these years
but gratify my own selfish personal desires? What can I do with the rest of it but try to make
some reparation for what I have stolen from God? That is the way I look at it now. I believe
it is what Jesus would do."

Over the lecture-room swept that unseen yet distinctly felt wave of Divine Presence. No one
spoke for a while. Mr. Maxwell standing there, where the faces lifted their intense gaze into
his, felt what he had already felt--a strange setting back out of the nineteenth century into
the first, when the disciples had all things in common, and a spirit of fellowship must have
flowed freely between them such as the First Church of Raymond had never before known. How
much had his church membership known of this fellowship in daily interests before this little
company had begun to do as they believed Jesus would do? It was with difficulty that he thought
of his present age and surroundings. The same thought was present with all the rest, also.
There was an unspoken comradeship such as they had never known. It was present with them while
Virginia was speaking, and during the silence that followed. If it had been defined by any
of them it would perhaps have taken some such shape as this: "If I shall, in the course of
my obedience to my promise, meet with loss or trouble in the world, I can depend upon the genuine,
practical sympathy and fellowship of any other Christian in this room who has, with me, made
the pledge to do all things by the rule, 'What would Jesus do?'"

All this, the distinct wave of spiritual power emphasized. It had the effect that a physical
miracle may have had on the early disciples in giving them a feeling of confidence in the Lord
that helped them to face loss and martyrdom with courage and even joy.

Before they went away this time there were several confidences like those of Edward Norman's.
Some of the young men told of loss of places owing to their honest obedience to their promise.
Alexander Powers spoke briefly of the fact that the Commission had promised to take action
on his evidence at the earliest date possible.

Chapter Fourteen

BUT more than any other feeling at this meeting rose the tide of fellowship for one another.
Maxwell watched it, trembling for its climax which he knew was not yet reached. When it was,
where would it lead them? He did not know, but he was not unduly alarmed about it. Only he
watched with growing wonder the results of that simple promise as it was being obeyed in these
various lives. Those results were already being felt all over the city. Who could measure their
influence at the end of a year?

One practical form of this fellowship showed itself in the assurances which Edward Norman received
of support for his paper. There was a general flocking toward him when the meeting closed,
and the response to his appeal for help from the Christian disciples in Raymond was fully understood
by this little company. The value of such a paper in the homes and in behalf of good citizenship,
especially at the present crisis in the city, could not be measured. It remained to be seen
what could be done now that the paper was endowed so liberally. But it still was true, as Norman
insisted, that money alone could not make the paper a power. It must receive the support and
sympathy of the Christians in Raymond before it could be counted as one of the great forces
of the city.

The week that followed this Sunday meeting was one of great excitement in Raymond. It was the
week of the election. President Marsh, true to his promise, took up his cross and bore it manfully,
but with shuddering, with groans and even tears, for his deepest conviction was touched, and
he tore himself out of the scholarly seclusion of years with a pain and anguish that cost him
more than anything he had ever done as a follower of Christ. With him were a few of the college
professors who had made the pledge in the First Church. Their experience and suffering were
the same as his; for their isolation from all the duties of citizenship had been the same.
The same was also true of Henry Maxwell, who plunged into the horror of this fight against
whiskey and its allies with a sickening dread of each day's new encounter with it. For never
before had he borne such a cross. He staggered under it, and in the brief intervals when he
came in from the work and sought the quiet of his study for rest, the sweat broke out on his
forehead, and he felt the actual terror of one who marches into unseen, unknown horrors. Looking
back on it afterwards he was amazed at his experience. He was not a coward, but he felt the
dread that any man of his habits feels when confronted suddenly with a duty which carries with
it the doing of certain things so unfamiliar that the actual details connected with it betray
his ignorance and fill him with the shame of humiliation.

When Saturday, the election day, came, the excitement rose to its height. An attempt was made
to close all the saloons. It was only partly successful. There was a great deal of drinking
going on all day. The Rectangle boiled and heaved and cursed and turned its worst side out
to the gaze of the city. Gray had continued his meetings during the week, and the results had
been even greater than he had dared to hope. When Saturday came, it seemed to him that the
crisis in his work had been reached. The Holy Spirit and the Satan of rum seemed to rouse up
to a desperate conflict. The more interest in the meetings, the more ferocity and vileness
outside. The saloon men no longer concealed their feelings. Open threats of violence were made.
Once during the week Gray and his little company of helpers were assailed with missiles of
various kinds as they left the tent late at night. The police sent down a special force, and
Virginia and Rachel were always under the protection of either Rollin or Dr. West. Rachel's
power in song had not diminished. Rather, with each night, it seemed to add to the intensity
and reality of the Spirit's presence.

Gray had at first hesitated about having a meeting that night. But he had a simple rule of
action, and was always guided by it. The Spirit seemed to lead him to continue the meeting,
and so Saturday night he went on as usual.

The excitement all over the city had reached its climax when the polls closed at six o'clock.
Never before had there been such a contest in Raymond. The issue of license or no-license had
never been an issue under such circumstances. Never before had such elements in the city been
arrayed against each other. It was an unheard-of thing that the President of Lincoln College,
the pastor of the First Church, the Dean of the Cathedral, the professional men living in fine
houses on the boulevard, should come personally into the wards, and by their presence and their
example represent the Christian conscience of the place. The ward politicians were astonished
at the sight. However, their astonishment did not prevent their activity. The fight grew hotter
every hour, and when six o'clock came neither side could have guessed at the result with any
certainty. Every one agreed that never before had there been such an election in Raymond, and
both sides awaited the announcement of the result with the greatest interest.

It was after ten o'clock when the meeting at the tent was closed. It had been a strange and,
in some respects, a remarkable meeting. Maxwell had come down again at Gray's request. He was
completely worn out by the day's work, but the appeal from Gray came to him in such a form
that he did not feel able to resist it. President Marsh was also present. He had never been
to the Rectangle, and his curiosity was aroused from what he had noticed of the influence of
the evangelist in the worst part of the city. Dr. West and Rollin had come with Rachel and
Virginia; and Loreen, who still stayed with Virginia, was present near the organ, in her right
mind, sober, with a humility and dread of herself that kept her as close to Virginia as a faithful
dog. All through the service she sat with bowed head, weeping a part of the time, sobbing when
Rachel sang the song, "I was a wandering sheep," clinging with almost visible, tangible yearning
to the one hope she had found, listening to prayer and appeal and confession all about her
like one who was a part of a new creation, yet fearful of her right to share in it fully.

The tent had been crowded. As on some other occasions, there was more or less disturbance on
the outside. This had increased as the night advanced, and Gray thought it wise not to prolong
the service.

Once in a while a shout as from a large crowd swept into the tent. The returns from the election
were beginning to come in, and the Rectangle had emptied every lodging house, den and hovel
into the streets.

In spite of these distractions Rachel's singing kept the crowd in the tent from dissolving.
There were a dozen or more conversions. Finally the people became restless and Gray closed
the service, remaining a little while with the converts.

Rachel, Virginia, Loreen, Rollin and the Doctor, President Marsh, Mr. Maxwell and Dr. West
went out together, intending to go down to the usual waiting place for their car. As they came
out of the tent they were at once aware that the Rectangle was trembling on the verge of a
drunken riot, and as they pushed through the gathering mobs in the narrow streets they began
to realize that they themselves were objects of great attention.

"There he is--the bloke in the tall hat! He's the leader! shouted a rough voice. President
Marsh, with his erect, commanding figure, was conspicuous in the little company.

"How has the election gone? It is too early to know the result yet, isn't it?" He asked the
question aloud, and a man answered:

"They say second and third wards have gone almost solid for no-license. If that is so, the
whiskey men have been beaten."

"Thank God! I hope it is true!" exclaimed Maxwell. "Marsh, we are in danger here. Do you realize
our situation? We ought to get the ladies to a place of safety."

"That is true," said Marsh gravely. At that moment a shower of stones and other missiles fell
over them. The narrow street and sidewalk in front of them was completely choked with the worst
elements of the Rectangle.

"This looks serious," said Maxwell. With Marsh and Rollin and Dr. West he started to go forward
through a small opening, Virginia, Rachel, and Loreen following close and sheltered by the
men, who now realized something of their danger. The Rectangle was drunk and enraged. It saw
in Marsh and Maxwell two of the leaders in the election contest which had perhaps robbed them
of their beloved saloon.

"Down with the aristocrats!" shouted a shrill voice, more like a woman's than a man's. A shower
of mud and stones followed. Rachel remembered afterwards that Rollin jumped directly in front
of her and received on his head and chest a number of blows that would probably have struck
her if he had not shielded her from them.

And just then, before the police reached them, Loreen darted forward in front of Virginia and
pushed her aside, looking up and screaming. It was so sudden that no one had time to catch
the face of the one who did it. But out of the upper window of a room, over the very saloon
where Loreen had come out a week before, someone had thrown a heavy bottle. It struck Loreen
on the head and she fell to the ground. Virginia turned and instantly kneeled down by her.
The police officers by that time had reached the little company.

President Marsh raised his arm and shouted over the howl that was beginning to rise from the
wild beast in the mob.

"Stop! You've killed a woman!" The announcement partly sobered the crowd.

"Is it true?" Maxwell asked it, as Dr. West kneeled on the other side of Loreen, supporting her.

"She's dying!" said Dr. West briefly.

Loreen opened her eyes and smiled at Virginia, who wiped the blood from her face and then bent
over and kissed her. Loreen smiled again, and the next minute her soul was in Paradise.

Chapter Fifteen

"He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness."

THE body of Loreen lay in state at the Page mansion on the avenue. It was Sunday morning and
the clear sweet spring air, just beginning to breathe over the city the perfume of early blossoms
in the woods and fields, swept over the casket from one of the open windows at the end of the
grand hall. The church bells were ringing and people on the avenue going by to service turned
curious, inquiring looks up at the great house and then went on, talking of the recent events
which had so strangely entered into and made history in the city.

At the First Church, Mr. Maxwell, bearing on his face marks of the scene he had been through,
confronted an immense congregation, and spoke to it with a passion and a power that came so
naturally out of the profound experiences of the day before that his people felt for him something
of the old feeling of pride they once had in his dramatic delivery. Only this was with a different
attitude. And all through his impassioned appeal this morning, there was a note of sadness
and rebuke and stern condemnation that made many of the members pale with self-accusation or
with inward anger.

For Raymond had awakened that morning to the fact that the city had gone for license after
all. The rumor at the Rectangle that the second and third wards had gone no-license proved
to be false. It was true that the victory was won by a very meager majority. But the result
was the same as if it had been overwhelming. Raymond had voted to continue for another year
the saloon. The Christians of Raymond stood condemned by the result. More than a hundred professing
Christian disciples had failed to go to the polls, and many more than that number had voted
with the whiskey men. If all the church members of Raymond had voted against the saloon, it
would today be outlawed instead of crowned king of the municipality. For that had been the
fact in Raymond for years. The saloon ruled. No one denied that. What would Jesus do? And this
woman who had been brutally struck down by the very hand that had assisted so eagerly to work
her earthly ruin what of her? Was it anything more than the logical sequence of the whole horrible
system of license, that for another year the very saloon that received her so often and compassed
her degradation, from whose very spot the weapon had been hurled that struck her dead, would,
by the law which the Christian people of Raymond voted to support, perhaps open its doors tomorrow
and damn a hundred Loreens before the year had drawn to its bloody close?

All this, with a voice that rang and trembled and broke in sobs of anguish for the result,
did Henry Maxwell pour out upon his people that Sunday morning. And men and women wept as he
spoke. President Marsh sat there, his usual erect, handsome, firm, bright self-confident bearing
all gone; his head bowed upon his breast, the great tears rolling down his cheeks, unmindful
of the fact that never before had he shown outward emotion in a public service. Edward Norman
near by sat with his clear-cut, keen face erect, but his lip trembled and he clutched the end
of the pew with a feeling of emotion that struck deep into his knowledge of the truth as Maxwell
spoke it. No man had given or suffered more to influence public opinion that week than Norman.
The thought that the Christian conscience had been aroused too late or too feebly, lay with
a weight of accusation upon the heart of the editor. What if he had begun to do as Jesus would
have done, long ago? Who could tell what might have been accomplished by this time! And up
in the choir, Rachel Winslow, with her face bowed on the railing of the oak screen, gave way
to a feeling which she had not allowed yet to master her, but it so unfitted her for her part
that when Mr. Maxwell finished and she tried to sing the closing solo after the prayer, her
voice broke, and for the first time in her life she was obliged to sit down, sobbing, and unable
to go on.

Over the church, in the silence that followed this strange scene, sobs and the noise of weeping
arose. When had the First Church yielded to such a baptism of tears? What had become of its
regular, precise, conventional order of service, undisturbed by any vulgar emotion and unmoved
by any foolish excitement? But the people had lately had their deepest convictions touched.
They had been living so long on their surface feelings that they had almost forgotten the deeper
wells of life. Now that they had broken the surface, the people were convicted of the meaning
of their discipleship.

Mr. Maxwell did not ask, this morning, for volunteers to join those who had already pledged
to do as Jesus would. But when the congregation had finally gone, and he had entered the lecture-room,
it needed but a glance to show him that the original company of followers had been largely
increased. The meeting was tender; it glowed with the Spirit's presence; it was alive with
strong and lasting resolve to begin a war on the whiskey power in Raymond that would break
its reign forever. Since the first Sunday when the first company of volunteers had pledged
themselves to do as Jesus would do, the different meetings had been characterized by distinct
impulses or impressions. Today, the entire force of the gathering seemed to be directed to
this one large purpose. It was a meeting full of broken prayers of contrition, of confession,
of strong yearning for a new and better city life. And all through it ran one general cry for
deliverance from the saloon and its awful curse.

But if the First Church was deeply stirred by the events of the last week, the Rectangle also
felt moved strangely in its own way. The death of Loreen was not in itself so remarkable a
fact. It was her recent acquaintance with the people from the city that lifted her into special
prominence and surrounded her death with more than ordinary importance. Every one in the Rectangle
knew that Loreen was at this moment lying in the Page mansion up on the avenue. Exaggerated
reports of the magnificence of the casket had already furnished material for eager gossip.
The Rectangle was excited to know the details of the funeral. Would it be public? What did
Miss Page intend to do? The Rectangle had never before mingled even in this distant personal
manner with the aristocracy on the boulevard. The opportunities for doing so were not frequent.
Gray and his wife were besieged by inquirers who wanted to know what Loreen's friends and acquaintances
were expected to do in paying their last respects to her. For her acquaintance was large and
many of the recent converts were among her friends.

So that is how it happened that Monday afternoon, at the tent, the funeral service of Loreen
was held before an immense audience that choked the tent and overflowed beyond all previous
bounds. Gray had gone up to Virginia's and, after talking it over with her and Maxwell, the
arrangement had been made.

"I am and always have been opposed to large public funerals," said Gray, whose complete wholesome
simplicity of character was one of its great sources of strength; "but the cry of the poor
creatures who knew Loreen is so earnest that I do not know how to refuse this desire to see
her and pay her poor body some last little honor. What do you think, Mr. Maxwell? I will be
guided by your judgment in the matter. I am sure that whatever you and Miss Page think best,
will be right."

"I feel as you do," replied Mr. Maxwell. "Under the circumstances I have a great distaste for
what seems like display at such times. But this seems different. The people at the Rectangle
will not come here to service. I think the most Christian thing will be to let them have the
service at the tent. Do you think so, Miss Virginia?"

"Yes," said Virginia. "Poor soul! I do not know but that some time I shall know she gave her
life for mine. We certainly cannot and will not use the occasion for vulgar display. Let her
friends be allowed the gratification of their wishes. I see no harm in it."

So the arrangements were made, with some difficulty, for the service at the tent; and Virginia
with her uncle and Rollin, accompanied by Maxwell, Rachel and President Marsh, and the quartet
from the First Church, went down and witnessed one of the strange things of their lives.

It happened that that afternoon a somewhat noted newspaper correspondent was passing through
Raymond on his way to an editorial convention in a neighboring city. He heard of the contemplated
service at the tent and went down. His description of it was written in a graphic style that
caught the attention of very many readers the next day. A fragment of his account belongs to
this part of the history of Raymond:

"There was a very unique and unusual funeral service held here this afternoon at the tent of
an evangelist, Rev. John Gray, down in the slum district known as the Rectangle. The occasion
was caused by the killing of a woman during an election riot last Saturday night. It seems
she had been recently converted during the evangelist's meetings, and was killed while returning
from one of the meetings in company with other converts and some of her friends. She was a
common street drunkard, and yet the services at the tent were as impressive as any I ever witnessed
in a metropolitan church over the most distinguished citizen.

"In the first place, a most exquisite anthem was sung by a trained choir. It struck me, of
course--being a stranger in the place--with considerable astonishment to hear voices like those
one naturally expects to hear only in great churches or concerts, at such a meeting as this.
But the most remarkable part of the music was a solo sung by a strikingly beautiful young woman,
a Miss Winslow who, if I remember right, is the young singer who was sought for by Crandall
the manager of National Opera, and who for some reason refused to accept his offer to go on
the stage. She had a most wonderful manner in singing, and everybody was weeping before she
had sung a dozen words. That, of course, is not so strange an effect to be produced at a funeral
service, but the voice itself was one of thousands. I understand Miss Winslow sings in the
First Church of Raymond and could probably command almost any salary as a public singer. She
will probably be heard from soon. Such a voice could win its way anywhere.

"The service aside from the singing was peculiar. The evangelist, a man of apparently very
simple, unassuming style, spoke a few words, and he was followed by a fine-looking man, the
Rev. Henry Maxwell, pastor of the First Church of Raymond. Mr. Maxwell spoke of the fact that
the dead woman had been fully prepared to go, but he spoke in a peculiarly sensitive manner
of the effect of the liquor business on the lives of men and women like this one. Raymond,
of course, being a railroad town and the centre of the great packing interests for this region,
is full of saloons. I caught from the minister's remarks that he had only recently changed
his views in regard to license. He certainly made a very striking address, and yet it was in
no sense inappropriate for a funeral.

"Then followed what was perhaps the queer part of this strange service. The women in the tent,
at least a large part of them up near the coffin, began to sing in a soft, tearful way, 'I
was a wandering sheep.' Then while the singing was going on, one row of women stood up and
walked slowly past the casket, and as they went by, each one placed a flower of some kind upon
it. Then they sat down and another row filed past, leaving their flowers. All the time the
singing continued softly like rain on a tent cover when the wind is gentle. It was one of the
simplest and at the same time one of the most impressive sights I ever witnessed. The sides
of the tent were up, and hundreds of people who could not get in, stood outside, all as still
as death itself, with wonderful sadness and solemnity for such rough looking people. There
must have been a hundred of these women, and I was told many of them had been converted at
the meetings just recently. I cannot describe the effect of that singing. Not a man sang a
note. All women's voices, and so soft, and yet so distinct, that the effect was startling.

"The service closed with another solo by Miss Winslow, who sang, 'There were ninety and nine.'
And then the evangelist asked them all to bow their heads while he prayed. I was obliged in
order to catch my train to leave during the prayer, and the last view I caught of the service
as the train went by the shops was a sight of the great crowd pouring out of the tent and forming
in open ranks while the coffin was borne out by six of the women. It is a long time since I
have seen such a picture in this unpoetic Republic."

If Loreen's funeral impressed a passing stranger like this, it is not difficult to imagine
the profound feelings of those who had been so intimately connected with her life and death.
Nothing had ever entered the Rectangle that had moved it so deeply as Loreen's body in that
coffin. And the Holy Spirit seemed to bless with special power the use of this senseless clay.
For that night He swept more than a score of lost souls, mostly women, into the fold of the
Good Shepherd.

Chapter Sixteen

No one in all Raymond, including the Rectangle, felt Loreen's death more keenly than Virginia.
It came like a distinct personal loss to her. That short week while the girl had been in her
home had opened Virginia's heart to a new life. She was talking it over with Rachel the day
after the funeral. Thee were sitting in the hall of the Page mansion.

"I am going to do something with my money to help those women to a better life." Virginia looked
over to the end of the hall where, the day before, Loreen's body had lain. "I have decided
on a good plan, as it seems to me. I have talked it over with Rollin. He will devote a large
part of his money also to the same plan."

"How much money have you, Virginia, to give in this way?" asked Rachel. Once, she would never
have asked such a personal question. Now, it seemed as natural to talk frankly about money
as about anything else that belonged to God.

"I have available for use at least four hundred and fifty-thousand dollars. Rollin has as much
more. It is one of his bitter regrets now that his extravagant habits of life before his conversion
practically threw away half that father left him. We are both eager to make all the reparation
in our power. 'What would Jesus do with this money?' We want to answer that question honestly
and wisely. The money I shall put into the NEWS is, I am confident, in a line with His probable
action. It is as necessary that we have a Christian daily paper in Raymond, especially now
that we have the saloon influence to meet, as it is to have a church or a college. So I am
satisfied that the five hundred thousand dollars that Mr. Norman will know how to use so well
will be a powerful factor in Raymond to do as Jesus would.

"About my other plan, Rachel, I want you to work with me. Rollin and I are going to buy up
a large part of the property in the Rectangle. The field where the tent now is, has been in
litigation for years. We mean to secure the entire tract as soon as the courts have settled
the title. For some time I have been making a special study of the various forms of college
settlements and residence methods of Christian work and Institutional church work in the heart
of great city slums. I do not know that I have yet been able to tell just what is the wisest
and most effective kind of work that can be done in Raymond. But I do know this much. My money--I
mean God's, which he wants me to use--can build wholesome lodging-houses, refuges for poor
women, asylums for shop girls, safety for many and many a lost girl like Loreen. And I do not
want to be simply a dispenser of this money. God help me! I do want to put myself into the
problem. But you know, Rachel, I have a feeling all the time that all that limitless money
and limitless personal sacrifice can possibly do, will not really lessen very much the awful
condition at the Rectangle as long as the saloon is legally established there. I think that
is true of any Christian work now being carried on in any great city. The saloon furnishes
material to be saved faster than the settlement or residence or rescue mission work can save it."

Virginia suddenly rose and paced the hall. Rachel answered sadly, and yet with a note of hope
in her voice:

"It is true. But, Virginia, what a wonderful amount of good can be done with this money! And
the saloon cannot always remain here. The time must come when the Christian forces in the city
will triumph."

Virginia paused near Rachel, and her pale, earnest face lighted up.

"I believe that too. The number of those who have promised to do as Jesus would is increasing.
If we once have, say, five hundred such disciples in Raymond, the saloon is doomed. But now,
dear, I want you to look at your part in this plan for capturing and saving the Rectangle.
Your voice is a power. I have had many ideas lately. Here is one of them. You could organize
among the girls a Musical Institute; give them the benefit of your training. There are some
splendid voices in the rough there. Did any one ever hear such singing as that yesterday by
those women? Rachel, what a beautiful opportunity! You shall have the best of material in the
way of organs and orchestras that money can provide, and what cannot be done with music to
win souls there into higher and purer and better living?"

Before Virginia had ceased speaking Rachel's face was perfectly transformed with the thought
of her life work. It flowed into her heart and mind like a flood, and the torrent of her feeling
overflowed in tears that could not be restrained. It was what she had dreamed of doing herself.
It represented to her something that she felt was in keeping with a right use of her talent.

"Yes," she said, as she rose and put her arm about Virginia, while both girls in the excitement
of their enthusiasm paced the hall. "Yes, I will gladly put my life into that kind of service.
I do believe that Jesus would have me use my life in this way. Virginia, what miracles can
we not accomplish in humanity if we have such a lever as consecrated money to move things with!"

"Add to it consecrated personal enthusiasm like yours, and it certainly can accomplish great
things," said Virginia smiling. And before Rachel could reply, Rollin came in.

He hesitated a moment, and then was passing out of the hall into the library when Virginia
called him back and asked some questions about his work.

Rollin came back and sat down, and together the three discussed their future plans. Rollin
was apparently entirely free from embarrassment in Rachel's presence while Virginia was with
them, only his manner with her was almost precise, if not cold. The past seemed to have been
entirely absorbed in his wonderful conversion. He had not forgotten it, but he seemed to be
completely caught up for this present time in the purpose of his new life. After a while Rollin
was called out, and Rachel and Virginia began to talk of other things.

"By the way, what has become of Jasper Chase?" Virginia asked the question innocently, but
Rachel flushed and Virginia added with a smile, "I suppose he is writing another book. Is he
going to put you into this one, Rachel? You know I always suspected Jasper Chase of doing that
very thing in his first story."

"Virginia," Rachel spoke with the frankness that had always existed between the two friends,
"Jasper Chase told me the other night that he--in fact--he proposed to me--or he would, if--"

Rachel stopped and sat with her hands clasped on her lap, and there were tears in her eyes.

"Virginia, I thought a little while ago I loved him, as he said he loved me. But when he spoke,
my heart felt repelled, and I said what I ought to say. I told him no. I have not seen him
since. That was the night of the first conversions at the Rectangle."

"I am glad for you," said Virginia quietly.

"Why?" asked Rachel a little startled.

