I have already told how she annoyed M. le Duc de Berry by ridiculing his devotion.  In other
ways she put his patience to severe trials, and more than once was in danger of public exposure.
She partook of few meals in private, at which she did not get so drunk as to lose consciousness,
and to bring up all she had taken on every side.  The presence of M. le Duc de Berry, of M.
le Duc and Madame la Duchesse d'Orleans, of ladies with whom she was not on familiar terms,
in no way restrained her.  She complained even of M. le Duc de Berry for not doing as she did.
She often treated her father with a haughtiness which was terrifying on all accounts.

In her gallantries she was as unrestrained as in other things.  After having had several favourites,
she fixed herself upon La Haye, who from King's page had become private ecuyer of M. le Duc
de Berry.  The oglings in the Salon of Marly were perceived by everybody; nothing restrained
them.  At last, it must be said, for this fact encloses all the rest, she wished La Haye to
run away with her from Versailles to the Low Countries, whilst M. le Duc de Berry and the King
were both living.  La Haye almost died with fright at this proposition, which she herself made
to him.  His refusal made her furious.  From the most pressing entreaties she came to all the
invectives that rage could suggest, and that torrents of tears allowed her to pronounce.  La
Haye had to suffer her attacks--now tender, now furious; he was in the most mortal embarrassment.
It was a long time before she could be cured of her mad idea, and in the meanwhile she subjected
the poor fellow to the most frightful persecution.  Her passion for La Haye continued until
the death of M. le Duc de Berry, and some time after.

M. le Duc de Berry was buried at Saint-Denis on Wednesday, the 16th of May; M. le Duc d'Orleans
was to have headed the procession, but the same odious reports against him that had circulated
at the death of the Dauphin had again appeared, and he begged to be let off.  M. le Duc filled
his place.  Madame la Duchesse de Berry, who was in the family way, kept her bed; and in order
that she should not be seen there when people came to pay her the usual visits of condolence,
the room was kept quite dark. But while her head lay on his heart, had their eyes on the standing at her side Dog like. He had
stretched his nose to the wood, the direction in which Frank had just left him, and sniffed
around more violently in the air.  For want of this, Pere du Trevoux,
and Pere Tellier after him, both addressed their compliments to the wall; others to the foot
of the bed.  This became a secret amusement, but happily did not last long.

As may be imagined, the death of M. le Duc de Berry was a deliverance for Madame la Duchesse
de Berry.  She was, as I have said, in the family way; she hoped for a boy, and counted upon
enjoying as a widow more liberty than she had been able to take as a wife.  She had a miscarriage,
however, on Saturday, the 16th of June, and was delivered of a daughter which lived only twelve
hours.  The little corpse was buried at Saint- Denis, Madame de Saint-Simon at the head of
the procession.  Madame la Duchesse de Berry, shortly before this event, received two hundred
thousand livres income of pension; but the establishment she would have had if the child had
been a boy was not allowed her.

CHAPTER LXVII.

It is time now that I should say something about an event that caused an immense stir throughout
the land, and was much talked of even in foreign parts.  I must first introduce, however, a
sort of a personage whose intimacy was forced upon me at this period; for the two incidents
are in a certain degree associated together.

M. d'Orleans for some little time had continually represented to me, how desirous one of his
acquaintances was to secure my friendship.  This acquaintance was Maisons, president in the
parliament, grandson of that superintendent of the finances who built the superb chateau of
Maisons, and son of the man who had presided so unworthily at the judgment of our trial with
M. de Luxembourg, which I have related in its place.  Maisons was a person of much ambition,
exceedingly anxious to make a name, gracious and flattering in manners to gain his ends, and
amazingly fond of grand society.

The position of Maisons, where he lived, close to Marly, afforded him many opportunities of
drawing there the principal people of the Court. It became quite the fashion to go from Marly
to his chateau.  The King grew accustomed to hear the place spoken of, and was in no way displeased.
Maisons had managed to become very intimate with M. le Duc and M. le Prince de Conti.  These
two princes being dead, he turned his thoughts towards M, d'Orleans.  He addressed himself
to Canillac, who had always been an intimate friend of M. d'Orleans, and by him soon gained
the intimacy of that prince.  But he was not yet satisfied.  He wished to circumvent M. d'Orleans
more completely than he could by means of Canillac.  He cast his eye, therefore, upon me. 
I think he was afraid of me on account of what I have related concerning his father.  He had
an only son about the same age as my children.  For a long time he had made all kinds of advances,
and visited them often.  The son's intimacy did not, however, assist the father; so that at
last Maisons made M. le Duc d'Orleans speak to me himself.

I was cold; tried to get out of the matter with compliments and excuses. M. d'Orleans, who
believed he had found a treasure in his new acquaintance, returned to the charge; but I was
not more docile.  A few days after, I was surprised by an attack of the same kind from M. de
Beauvilliers.  How or when he had formed an intimacy with Maisons, I have never been able to
unravel; but formed it, he had; and he importuned me so much, nay exerted his authority over
me, that at last I found I must give way.  Not to offend M. d'Orleans by yielding to another
after having refused to yield to him, I waited until he should again speak to me on the subject,
so that he might give himself the credit of vanquishing me. I did not wait long.  The Prince
attacked me anew, maintained that nothing would be more useful to him than an intimacy between
myself and Maisons, who scarcely dared to see him, except in secret, and with whom he had not
the same leisure or liberty for discussing many things that might present themselves.  I had
replied to all this before; but as I had resolved to surrender to the Prince (after the authority
of the Duc de Beauvilliers had vanquished me), I complied with his wish.

Maisons was soon informed of it, and did not let my resolution grow, cold.  M. le Duc d'Orleans
urged me to go and sleep a night in Paris. 

He looked not, he only had eyes for the young figure, which he held in his arms; which he raised
as a child now in the car. Then he whistled his dog, and soon they had the short distance back
down to the house.  I went there with an old coachman
of my mother's and a lackey to put my people off the scent.  There was a little moonlight.
Maisons in a small carriage awaited me.  We soon met.  He mounted into my coach.  I never could
comprehend the mystery of this meeting.  There was nothing on his part but advances, compliments,
protestations, allusions to the former interview of our fathers; only such things, in fact,
as a man of cleverness and breeding says when he wishes to form a close intimacy with any one.
Not a word that he said was of importance or of a private nature.

I replied in the civillest manner possible to the abundance he bestowed upon me.  I expected
afterwards something that would justify the hour, the place, the mystery, in a word, of our
interview.  What was my surprise to hear no syllable upon these points.  The only reason Maisons
gave for our secret interview was that from that time he should be able to come and see me
at Versailles with less inconvenience, and gradually increase the number and the length of
his visits until people grew accustomed to see him there!  He then begged me not to visit him
in Paris, because his house was always too full of people.  This interview lasted little less
than half an hour.  It was long indeed, considering what passed.  We separated with much politeness,
and the first time he went to Versailles he called upon me towards the middle of the day.

In a short time he visited me every Sunday.  Our conversation by degrees became more serious.
I did not fail to be on my guard, but drew him out upon various subjects; he being very willing.

We were on this footing when, returning to my room at Marly about midday- on Sunday, the 29th
of July, I found a lackey of Maisons with a note from him, in which he conjured me to quit
all business and come immediately to his house at Paris, where he would wait for me alone,
and where I should find that something was in question, that could not suffer the slightest
delay, that could not even be named in writing, and which was of the most extreme importance.
This lackey had long since arrived, and had sent my people everywhere in search of me.  I was
engaged that day to dine with M. and Madame de Lauzun.  To have broken my engagement would
have been to set the curiosity and the malignity of M. de Lauzun at work.  I dared not disappear;
therefore I gave orders to my coachman, and as soon as I had dined I vanished.  Nobody saw
me get into my chaise; and I quickly arrived at Paris, and immediately hastened to Maisons'
with eagerness easy to imagine.

I found him alone with the Duc de Noailles.  At the first glance I saw two dismayed men, who
said to me in an exhausted manner, but after a heated though short preface, that the King had
declared his two bastards and their male posterity to all eternity, real princes of the blood,
with full liberty to assume all their dignities, honours, and rank, and capacity to succeed
to the throne in default of the others.

At this news, which I did not expect, and the secret of which had hitherto been preserved,
without a particle of it transpiring, my arms fell.  I lowered my head and remained profoundly
silent, absorbed in my reflections.  They were soon disturbed by cries which aroused me.  These
two men commenced pacing the chamber; stamped with their feet; pushed and struck the furniture;
raged as though each wished to be louder than the other, and made the house echo with their
noise.  I avow that so much hubbub seemed suspicious to me on the part of two men, one so sage
and so measured, and to whom this rank was of no consequence; the other always so tranquil,
so crafty, so master of himself.  I knew not why this sudden fury succeeded to such dejected
oppression; and I was not without suspicion that their passion was put on merely to excite
mine.  If this was their design, it succeeded ill.  I remained in my chair, and coldly asked
them what was the matter.  My tranquillity sharpened their fury. Never in my life have I seen
anything so surprising.

