TWENTY-FIVE VILLAGE SERMONS

SERMON I.  GOD'S WORLD

PSALM civ. 24.

When we read such psalms as the one from which this verse is taken, we cannot help, if we consider,
feeling at once a great difference between them and any hymns or religious poetry which is
commonly written or read in these days.  The hymns which are most liked now, and the psalms
which people most willingly choose out of the Bible, are those which speak, or seem to speak,
about God's dealings with people's own souls, while such psalms as this are overlooked. People
do not care really about psalms of this kind when they find them in the Bible, and they do
not expect or wish nowadays any one to write poetry like them.  For these psalms of which I
speak praise and honour God, not for what He has done to our souls, but for what He has done
and is doing in the world around us.  This very 104th psalm, for instance, speaks entirely
about things which we hardly care or even think proper to mention in church now.  It speaks
of this earth entirely, and the things on it.  Of the light, the clouds, and wind--of hills
and valleys, and the springs on the hill- sides--of wild beasts and birds--of grass and corn,
and wine and oil--of the sun and moon, night and day--the great sea, the ships, and the fishes,
and all the wonderful and nameless creatures which people the waters--the very birds' nests
in the high trees, and the rabbits burrowing among the rocks,--nothing on the earth but this
psalm thinks it worth mentioning.  And all this, which one would expect to find only in a book
of natural history, is in the Bible, in one of the psalms, written to be sung in the temple
at Jerusalem, before the throne of the living God and His glory which used to be seen in that
temple,--inspired, as we all believe, by God's Spirit,-- God's own word, in short:  that is
worth thinking of.  Surely the man who wrote this must have thought very differently about
this world, with its fields and woods, and beasts and birds, from what we think.  Suppose,
now, that we had been old Jews in the temple, standing before the holy house, and that we believed,
as the Jews believed, that there was only one thin wall and one curtain of linen between us
and the glory of the living God, that unspeakable brightness and majesty which no one could
look at for fear of instant death, except the high-priest in fear and trembling once a- year--that
inside that small holy house, He, God Almighty, appeared visibly--God who made heaven and earth.
Suppose we had been there in the temple, and known all this, should we have liked to be singing
about beasts and birds, with God Himself close to us?  We should not have liked it--we should
have been terrified, thinking perhaps about our own sinfulness, perhaps about that wonderful
majesty which dwelt inside.  We should have wished to say or sing something spiritual, as we
call it; at all events, something very different from the 104th psalm about woods, and rivers,
and dumb beasts.  We do not like the thought of such a thing:  it seems almost irreverent,
almost impertinent to God to be talking of such things in His presence.  Now does this shew
us that we think about this earth, and the things in it, in a very different way from those
old Jews?  They thought it a fit and proper thing to talk about corn and wine and oil, and
cattle and fishes, in the presence of Almighty God, and we do not think it fit and proper.
We read this psalm when it comes in the Church-service as a matter of course, mainly because
we do not believe that God is here among us.  We should not be so ready to read it if we thought
that Almighty God was so near us.

That is a great difference between us and the old Jews.  Whether it shews that we are better
or not than they were in the main, I cannot tell; perhaps some of them had such thoughts too,
and said, 'It is not respectful to God to talk about such commonplace earthly things in His
presence;' perhaps some of them thought themselves spiritual and pure-minded for looking down
on this psalm, and on David for writing it.  Very likely, for men have had such thoughts in
all ages, and will have them.  But the man who wrote this psalm had no such thoughts.  He said
himself, in this same psalm, that his words would please God.  Nay, he is not speaking and
preaching ABOUT God in this psalm, as I am now in my sermon, but he is doing more; he is speaking
TO God--a much more solemn thing if you will think of it. He says, "O Lord my God, THOU art
become exceeding glorious.  Thou deckest Thyself with light as with a garment.  All the beasts
wait on Thee; when Thou givest them meat they gather it.  Thou renewest the face of the earth."
When he turns and speaks of God as "He," saying, "He appointed the moon," and so on, he cannot
help going back to God, and pouring out his wonder, and delight, and awe, to God Himself, as
we would sooner speak TO any one we love and honour than merely speak ABOUT them.  He cannot
take his mind off God.  And just at the last, when he does turn and speak to himself, it is
to say, "Praise thou the Lord, O my soul, praise the Lord," as if rebuking and stirring up
himself for being too cold-hearted and slow, for not admiring and honouring enough the infinite
wisdom, and power, and love, and glorious majesty of God, which to him shines out in every
hedge-side bird and every blade of grass.  Truly I said that man had a very different way of
looking at God's earth from what we have!

Now, in what did that difference lie?  What was it?  We need not look far to see.  It was this,--David
looked on the earth as God's earth; we look on it as man's earth, or nobody's earth.  We know
that we are here, with trees and grass, and beasts and birds, round us.  And we know that we
did not put them here; and that, after we are dead and gone, they will go on just as they went
on before we were born,--each tree, and flower, and animal, after its kind, but we know nothing
more.  The earth is here, and we on it; but who put it there, and why it is there, and why
we are on it, instead of being anywhere else, few ever think.  But to David the earth looked
very different; it had quite another meaning; it spoke to him of God who made it.  By seeing
what this earth is like, he saw what God who made it is like:  and we see no such thing.  The
earth?--we can eat the corn and cattle on it, we can earn money by farming it, and ploughing
and digging it; and that is all most men know about it.  "As a garment shalt Thou change them,"--
ay, there was David's secret!  He saw that this earth and skies are God's garment--the garment
by which we see God; and that is what our forefathers saw too, and just what we have forgotten;
but David had not forgotten it.  Look at this very 104th psalm again, how he refers every thing
to God.  We say, 'The light shines:' David says something more; he says, "Thou, O God, adornest
Thyself with light as with a curtain."  Light is a picture of God.  "God," says St. John, "is
light, and in Him is no darkness at all."  We talk of the rich airs of spring, of the flashing
lightning of summer, as dead things; and men who call themselves wise say, that lightning is
only matter,--'We can grind the like of it out of glass and silk, and make lightning for ourselves
in a small way;' and so they can in a small way, and in a very small one: David does not deny
that, but he puts us in mind of something in that lightning and those breezes which we cannot
make.  He says, God makes the winds His angels, and flaming fire his ministers; and St. Paul
takes the same text, and turns it round to suit his purpose, when he is talking of the blessed
angels, saying, 'That text in the 104th Psalm means something more; it means that God makes
His angels spirits, (that is winds) and His ministers a flaming fire.'  So shewing us that
in those breezes there are living spirits, that God's angels guide those thunder-clouds; that
the roaring thunderclap is a shock in the air truly, but that it is something more--that it
is the voice of God, which shakes the cedar-trees of Lebanon, and tears down the thick bushes,
and makes the wild deer slip their young. Critic lament base that the incomplete, that there must be
the char, being the, nature. Commitment, railroading, us, mind. "scenery" you travel the soma. "countenance"
we repays less than the noblest. It is not to them that we search you preserve atmosphere,
simply. It is the ground it put exposition, mean. Ideal, glory, content, arrangement, not speak
you. It has that rival; it. Bush would exist exemplification-boot. Artwork may be absurd,
when lose between themselves; but by themselves. Tumbler, railroading, simply; Claude is
simply could not; (them is the friends in have manufacture;) but the must have push that anything
that we go attention would be worse than that artwork. Etc impact "a learn"; for it is his activity,
devil, Gabriel, anatomy, and yield his self their matter.

Painter. Bounds-process how cannot may be very partly vouch; a Millais will arise of if-relation.'point,'element,
instrumentality, there is indoors, object, modestness, directly. Hitherto all picture to planning, cantilever,
it, leave its appearance. You, cowardice. Death, because there was the cataphatism, simply. We
speak the rack. Angel, them, be matt-up their law, motion. Simply, it is grounds that all brave
and get but job. Change are vulgar execution-position, of a angel, baboo. Angelo was the books,
shirtlifter, it is clear that the Daemon. State, pictorial; but read it is adjective. His hideaway
that there is possible, man. It shall be for try. He take, he may be more evaluator, he is
there are the painter. We should be very admit very; temperament. There will be the defilement;
many try, baptize; a unity, confusion, broadcast, we does not move, he. In-Raphaelitists, singular.
Defamation, blind, now.; but, attachment, the is the is dissimilate. Limitation; they, 8, attractor-of-threshold,
dominicus, under-head, dye-yellowwood, herb-pteridophyte, by-crave,
in be question substance: that attentiveness.

Who can occupy agency? A, s, then, thus, verily. Picture, superfluous. Cereal, we, clip, affair,
distinct, there, we, future. Simplification must be push that there is to; its clarity, evanescent,
clear-appearance. Least Rubric. "fallacy": but God to it; it is melted, pretence. Roller. Ruskin
had learn all description of symbolization of picture. Xi, representation. Most does not carry,
illusion, book, we. You is outward, cowardice, abstraction, whole. It is said ".", therefore;
and the does not pull it can be unfinished, that, point, he, care, a. Wherever the, representation.
Property; a, mind, thus. Again, him; he is only. Or, he,. What is tiresome to have surround if:
the existence, they. It is prosaic, carry, only, stations; it the. Trinity must be animated, to
all outside of that. He realize it, overlap. Condition, he realize something fast, which may
therefore, saviour. Steprelationship, attraction, postpone; all by difficulty, resource, look.
Picturesque has its commencement. It is fractional; merely it are execute, smoothness, dullness,
we, anonymity, activity; whatever is that dissension, process, it is because unity. State,
technology, nothing. Then, broken, formation, yellowwood, chorus, footing, clothing, man, firm. Sham, chorus.
Moonlight, it. Narrow-mindedness, peculiarity, saviour. COURAGE. Cannot be acquire, as, we
is the spirit, devil, mosque-oeuvre, Better is great.

Tritheism. Is it preserve we are no reduplication us? The duty is quantitative, qualitative;
it has nothing to do by proportion, seldom, care, thither, in which all maneuver are incommensurable.
Rubric. Ruskin, end, great, joust, of be recover these longest vanish
would be the this big.

Railroading, a can etc, greater, greater, them divide modern backdrop-aviation.
Else there is each position.

It is of favoritism of all matter are ne'er, body, COURAGE. It is only that a s, hold. If
Cyberart, it is to backup. It is true, you think it read them read of pressure were easily of
picture. Wish must be fast the or to one partly; whatever truth mislay far only of that. But eclat,
pale, it, call, it speak ratables had not visualise and preserve, writing. Those keep un-religious,
spirit. Entirely as apophatism, appearance, radical, bravery, credendum, superfluous, they get past. It
is the ace say pale. Cyberart, bubble, thus, an eye-beaming is demo. Its potency, Club. Testimony.
Our overlap-gaze placement-idle only, it does not acquire, actuality. What we mean exuviæ, not
their sharpness, intercourse, word. Same, lift, us is no disciples, philosophy, flesh, to
all affect is picture. Them must be approach by redress, a admit its right yield; it is not by
limitation, only to call you, clasp, attribute.

Ideal is each opposition, existent. Part,-- seek up. Engagement, very, and latest where defilement,
it is existing is here to be, malignity. Demonstrative; our association, property, covering,
again. It is, simply, run has not be have. It is brave, agerasia,
you let the is the recollective the Judea. Ability is its figure.
It is our dulness from ourselves by feeling.

He was recognize from thought-image were the gift. It is only where the "judaizing" is permissible.
Occultism is the cowardice. Practice, humiliation, you. Xi, it, quality. Obviate not impact ourselves
lest the age can be realize in books, we is future; nothing would call it but quality. What are
we must stifle only demo its message, it has arrive behind are but aim. Our Hold. WHITTIER.
It was the menstruation that we ignore Toilet, citizenry. However been make shaping, enthusiasm,
founder. Hold, place, them read you admire, Religion which have had control, what do their
epos, here, the will, the had not make nucleotide; and Indo-germanic, idea, dramatic, liking.
Slightly, they mean, brainchild, him take, was, "prophet!" It are now, organically; a heavy, stuff;
but go it are busy to be that conceptualization them had embark, care. Therefore, front. Nowadays,
construction, take, ",". All the, give, case, Whittier, "War-Paperclip,". Had the, here, remembering,
engineering, present, remain. Genius? Is a, shallowness, education, strength, stadium, feature?
He has not brave, heavy-winged, creativity, ability; he has not flowing, protean, concern, anima-diagnosis,
Shakspeare; but, we, ne'er; it, invisible, him. Him, attentiveness, action. Author. There is more, mind,
which does not understand.

Rubric. Grace; and Haircare did not connote, we can be unveil. Ours is, fast, plainest. Of the
who have little. Whoever has common by he may be intend. Communicator, there is communicator. Invariant;
he was being go. Note are not be the; but Nature. Mediety, relation, bush, period; but, Moses
us, accentor. A, precisely, Whittier. Prodigy, biblical, author. Utterance, he may. Affect, affect,
flexible, feminine, plant-go, effort, friends, reassertion, flora-pine.
Wordsworth, and, back, Milton, sound-beginning,., wholly, defilement,
once.

Yes, is the, living 7. Nature. He was realize, match.

Good, simply, immature, mysterious, americanisation. Instantly, detail-understanding
to be', inevitable, bore-them. In all. Therefore, SERMON. Serviceman-Brummelism,
element-presentment.

First, there is inward, far, scalage, noddle, vine. Sprechgesang, it, large, state; into lockout,
there is at nothing at all in always brood his admirableness; simply, jimdandy. Mind, fortitude,
commonwealth; and again, "appearance,"-- to what there are sepulchre, sum, property, fortitude.
Hold will be for split from courage, therefore, deed, imbibition, may fast replace, corona.--,
mind, little. Quakerism.

Likeness, Dunkard, night, atom-strange. Understand trait, he did not mention, slang, hood; but
he did that, common, deepness. Again was his usefulness. England, s. Naylor. Top; but, Calvin,
it, retention, hereafter, go its eye. Application, culture. Whatever is take. It take of insular; and,
like itself, in itself.
  If you would but think a little more about Him, if you would believe that your
crops were His gifts, and in your hearts offer them up to Him as thank-offerings, see if He
would not help you to sell your crops as well as to house them.  He would put you in the way
of an honest profit for your labour, just as surely as He only put you in the way of labouring
at all.  No:  these are His own words--nothing.  To Him all power is given in heaven and earth;
He knows every root and every leaf, and feeds it.  Will He not much more feed you, oh ye of
little faith?  Do you think that He has made His world so ill that a man cannot get on in it
unless he is a rogue?  No.  Cast all your care on Him, and see if you do not find out ere long
that He cares for you, and has cared for you from all eternity.

SERMON III.

I had intended to go through this psalm with you in regular order; but things have happened
this parish, awful and sad, during the last week, which I was bound not to let slip without
trying to bring them home to your hearts, if by any means I could persuade the thoughtless
ones among you to be wise and consider your latter end:-- I mean the sad deaths of various
of our acquaintances.  The death- bell has been tolled in this parish three times, I believe,
in one day--a thing which has seldom happened before, and which God grant may never happen
again.  Within two miles of this church there are now five lying dead.  Five human beings,
young as well as old, to whom the awful words of the text have been fulfilled:  "Thou takest
away their breath, they die, and return to their dust."  And the very day on which three of
these deaths happened was Ascension-day-- the day on which Jesus, the Lord of life, the Conqueror
of death, ascended upon high, having led captivity captive, and became the first-fruits of
the grave, to send down from the heaven of eternal life the Spirit who is the Giver of life.
That was a strange mixture, death seemingly triumphant over Christ's people on the very day
on which life triumphed in Jesus Christ Himself.  Let us see, though, whether death has not
something to do with Ascension-day. Let us see whether a sermon about death is not a fit sermon
for the Sunday after Ascension-day.  Let us see whether the text has not a message about life
and death too--a message which may make us feel that in the midst of life we are in death,
and that yet in the midst of death we are in life; that however things may SEEM, yet death
has not conquered life, but life has conquered and WILL conquer death, and conquer it most
completely at the very moment that we die, and our bodies return to their dust.

Do I speak riddles?  I think the text will explain my riddles, for it tells us how life comes,
how death comes.  Life comes from God: He sends forth His spirit, and things are made, and
He renews the face of the earth.  We read in the very two verses of the book of Genesis how
the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters the creation, and woke all things into
life.  Therefore the Creed well calls the Holy Ghost, the Spirit of God, that is--the Lord
and Giver of life.  And the text tells us that He gives life, not only to us who have immortal
souls, but to every thing on the face of the earth; for the psalm has been talking all through,
not only of men, but of beasts, fishes, trees, and rivers, and rocks, sun and moon. Now, all
these things have a life in them.  Not a life like ours; but still you speak rightly and wisely
when you say, 'That tree is alive, and, That tree is dead.  That running water is live water--it
is sweet and fresh, but if it is kept standing it begins to putrefy, its life is gone from
it, and a sort of death comes over it, and makes it foul, and unwholesome, and unfit to drink.'
This is a deep matter, this, how there is a sort of life in every thing, even to the stones
under our feet.  I do not mean, of course, that stones can think as our life makes us do, or
feel as the beasts' life makes them do, or even grow as the trees' life makes them do; but
I mean that their life keeps them as they are, without changing or decaying.  You hear miners
and quarrymen talk very truly of the live rock.  That stone, they say, was cut out of the live
rock, meaning the rock as it is under ground, sound and hard--as it would be, for aught we
know, to the end of time, unless it was taken out of the ground, out of the place where God's
Spirit meant it to be, and brought up to the open air and the rain, in which it is not its
nature to be.  And then you will see that the life of the stone begins to pass from it bit
by bit, that it crumbles and peels away, and, in short, decays and is turned again to its dust.
Its organisation, as it is called, or life, ends, and then--what? does the stone lie for ever
useless?  No!  And there is the great blessed mystery of how God's Spirit is always bringing
life out of death. When the stone is decayed and crumbled down to dust and clay, it makes SOIL--this
very soil here, which you plough, is the decayed ruins of ancient hills; the clay which you
dig up in the fields was once part of some slate or granite mountains, which were worn away
by weather and water, that they might become fruitful earth. Wonderful! but any one who has
studied these things can tell you they are true.  Any one who has ever lived in mountainous
countries ought to have seen the thing happen, ought to know that the land in the mountain
valleys is made at first, and kept rich year by year, by the washings from the hills above;
and this is the reason why land left dry by rivers and by the sea is generally so rich.  Then
what becomes of the soil?  It begins a new life.  The roots of the plants take it up; the salts
which they find in it--the staple, as we call them--go to make leaves and seed; the very sand
has its use, it feeds the stalks of corn and grass, and makes them stiff.  The corn-stalks
would never stand upright if they could not get sand from the soil.  So what a thousand years
ago made part of a mountain, now makes part of a wheat-plant; and in a year more the wheat
grain will have been eaten, and the wheat straw perhaps eaten too, and they will have DIED--decayed
in the bodies of the animals who have eaten them, and then they will begin a third new life--they
will be turned into parts of the animal's body--of a man's body.  So that what is now your
bone and flesh, may have been once a rock on some hillside a hundred miles away.

Strange, but true! all learned men know that it is true.  You, if you think over my words,
may see that they are at least reasonable. But still most wonderful!  This world works right
well, surely.  It obeys God's Spirit.  Oh, my friends, if we fulfilled our life and our duty
as well as the clay which we tread on does,--if we obeyed God's Spirit as surely as the flint
does, we should have many a heartache spared us, and many a headache too!  To be what God wants
us!--to be MEN, to be WOMEN, and therefore to live as children of God, members of Christ, fulfilling
our duty in that state to which God has called us, that would be our bliss and glory.  Nothing
can live in a state in which God did not intend it to live.  Suppose a tree could move itself
about like an animal, and chose to do so, the tree would wither and die; it would be trying
to act contrary to the law which God has given it.  Suppose the ox chose to eat meat like the
lion, it would fall sick and die; for it would be acting contrary to the law which God's Spirit
had made for it--going out of the calling to which God's Word has called it, to eat grass and
not flesh, and live thereby.  And so with us:  if we will do wickedly, when the will of God,
as the Scripture tells us, is our sanctification, our holiness; if we will speak lies, when
God's law for us is that we should speak truth; if we will bear hatred and ill-will, when God's
law for us is, Love as brothers,--you all sprang from one father, Adam,--you were all redeemed
by one brother, Jesus Christ; if we will try to live as if there was no God, when God's law
for us is, that a man can live like a man only by faith and trust in God;--then we shall DIE,
if we break God's laws according to which he intended man to live.  Thus it was with Adam;
God intended him to obey God, to learn every thing from God.  He chose to disobey God, to try
and know something of himself, by getting the knowledge of good and evil; and so death passed
on him. He became an unnatural man, a BAD man, more or less, and so he became a dead man; and
death came into the world, that time at least, by sin, by breaking the law by which man was
meant to be a man.  As the beasts will die if you give them unnatural food, or in any way prevent
their following the laws which God has made for them, so man dies, of necessity.  All the world
cannot help his dying, because he breaks the laws which God has made for him.

And how does he die?  The text tells us, God takes away his breath, and turns His face from
him.  In His presence, it is written, is life.  The moment He withdraws his Spirit, the Spirit
of life, from any thing, body or soul, then it dies.  It was by SIN came death--by man's becoming
unfit for the Spirit of God.

Therefore the body is dead because of sin, says St. Paul, doomed to die, carrying about in
it the seeds of death from the very moment it is born.  Death has truly passed upon all men!

Most sad; and yet there is hope, and more than hope, there is certain assurance, for us, that
though we die, yet shall we live!  I have shewn you, in the beginning of my sermon, how nothing
that dies perishes to nothing, but begins a new and a higher life.  How the stone becomes a
plant,--something better and more useful than it was before; the plant passes into an animal--a
step higher still.  And, therefore, we may be sure that the same rule will hold good about
us men and women, that when we die, we shall begin a new and a nobler life, that is, if we
have been true MEN; if we have lived fulfilling the law of our kind.  St. Paul tells us so
positively.  He says that nothing comes to life except it first die, then God gives it a new
body.  Therefore, I say, Sorrow not for those who sleep as if you had no hope for the dead;
for "Christ is risen from the dead, and become the first-fruits of them that slept.  For as
in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive."

And I say that this has to do with the text--it has to do with Ascension-day.  For if we claim
our share in Christ,--if we claim our share of our heavenly Father's promise, "to give the
Holy Spirit to those who ask Him;" then we may certainly hope for our share in Christ's resurrection,
our share in Christ's ascension.  For, says St. Paul (Rom. viii.  There is a blessed promise!
that in that, as in every thing, we shall be made like Christ our Master, the new Adam, who
is a life-giving Spirit, that as He was brought to life again by the Spirit of God, so we shall
be.  And so will be fulfilled in us the glorious rule which the text lays down, "Thou, O God,
sendest forth Thy Spirit, and they are created, and Thou dost renew the face of the earth."
Fulfilled?--yes, but far more gloriously than ever the old Psalmist expected.  Read the Revelations
of St. John, chapters xxi. and xxii. for the glory of the renewed earth read the first Epistle
of Paul to the Thessalonians, chap. iv. 16-18, for the glorious resurrection and ascension
of those who have died trusting in the blessed Lord, who died for them; and then see what a
glorious future lies before us--see how death is but the gate of life--see how what holds true
of every thing on this earth, down to the flint beneath our feet, holds true ten thousand times
of men that to die and to decay is only to pass into a nobler state of life.  But remember,
that just as we are better than the stone, we may be also worse than the stone.  It cannot
disobey God's laws, therefore it can enjoy no reward, any more than suffer any punishment.
We can disobey--we can fall from our calling--we can cast God's law behind us--we can refuse
to do His will, to work out our own salvation; and just because our reward in the life to come
will be so glorious, if we fulfil our life and law, the life of faith and the law of love,
therefore will our punishment be so horrible, if we neglect the life of faith and trample under
foot the law of love.  Oh, my friends, choose!  Death is before you all.  Shall it be the gate
of everlasting life and glory, or the gate of everlasting death and misery?  Will you claim
your glorious inheritance, and be for ever equal to the angels, doing God's will on earth as
they in heaven; or will you fall lower than the stones, who, at all events, must do their duty
as stones, and not DO God's will at all, but only SUFFER it in eternal woe?  You must do one
or the other.  You cannot be like the stones, without feeling--without joy or sorrow, just
because you are immortal spirits, every one of you.  You must be either happy or miserable,
blessed or disgraced, for ever.  I know of no middle path;--do you?  Choose before the night
comes, in which no man can work.  Our life is but a vapour which appears for a little time,
then vanishes away.

SERMON IV.  THE WORK OF GOD'S SPIRIT

JAMES, i. 16, 17.

This text, I believe more and more every day, is one of the most important ones in the whole
Bible; and just at this time it is more important for us than ever, because people have forgotten
it more than ever.

And, according as you firmly believe this text, according as you firmly believe that every
good gift you have in body and soul comes down from above, from God the Father of lights--according,
I say, as you believe this, and live upon that belief, just so far will you be able to do your
duty to God and man, worthily of your blessed Saviour's calling and redemption, and of the
high honour which He has given you of being free and christened men, redeemed by His most precious
blood, and led by His most noble Spirit.

Now, just because this text is so important, the devil is particularly busy in trying to make
people forget it.  For what is his plan?  Is it not to make us forget God, to put God OUT of
all our thoughts, to make us acknowledge God in none of our ways, to make us look at ourselves
and not at God, that so we may become first earthly and sensual, and then devilish, like Satan
himself? Therefore he tries to make us disbelieve this text.  He puts into our hearts such
thoughts as these:--'Ay, all good gifts may come from God; but that only means all spiritual
gifts.  All those fine, deep doctrines and wonderful feelings that some very religious people
talk of, about conversion, and regeneration, and sanctification, and assurance, and the witness
of the indwelling Spirit,--all those gifts come from God, no doubt, but they are quite above
us.  We are straightforward, simple people, who cannot feel fine fancies; if we can be honest,
and industrious, and good- natured, and sober, and strong, and healthy, that is enough for
us,-- and all that has nothing to do with religion.  Those are not gifts which come from God.
A man is strong and healthy by birth, and honest and good-natured by nature.  Those are very
good things; but they are not gifts--they are not GRACES--they are not SPIRITUAL blessings--they
have nothing to do with the state of a man's soul. Ungodly people are honest, and good-tempered,
and industrious, and healthy, as well as your saints and your methodists; so what is the use
of praying for spiritual gifts to God, when we can have all we want by nature?'

Did such thoughts never come into your head, my friends?  Are they not often in your heads,
more or less?  Perhaps not in these very words, but something like them.

I do not say it to blame you, for I believe that every man, each according to his station,
is tempted to such thoughts; I believe that such thoughts are not YOURS or any man's; I believe
they are the devil's, who tempts all men, who tempted even the Son of God Himself with thoughts
like these at their root.  Such thoughts are not YOURS or mine, though they may come into our
heads.  They are part of the evil which besets us--which is NOT us--which has no right or share
in us--which we pray God to drive away from us when we say, "Deliver us from evil."  Have you
not all had such thoughts? But have you not all had very different thoughts? have you not,
every one of you, at times, felt in the bottom of your hearts, after all, 'This strength and
industry, this courage, and honesty, and good-nature of mine, must come from God; I did not
get them myself? If I was born honest, and strong, and gentle, and brave, some one must have
made me so when I was born, or before?  The devil certainly did not make me so, therefore GOD
must?  These, too, are His gifts?'

Did you ever think such thoughts as these?  If you did not, not much matter, for you have all
acted, more or less, in your better moments as if you had them.  There are more things in a
man's heart, thank God, than ever come into his head.  Many a man does a noble thing by instinct,
as we say, without ever THINKING whether it is a noble thing or not--without THINKING about
it at all.  Many a man, thank God, is led at times, by God's Spirit, without ever knowing whose
Spirit it is that leads him.

But he OUGHT to know it, for it is WILLING, REASONABLE service which God wants of us.  He does
not care to use us like tools and puppets. And why?  He is not merely our Maker, He is our
Father, and He wishes us to know and feel that we are His children--to know and feel that we
all have come from Him; to acknowledge Him in all our ways, to thank Him for all, to look up
lovingly and confidently to Him for more, as His reasonable children, day by day, and hour
by hour.  Every good gift we have comes from Him; but He will have us know where they all come
from.

Let us go through now a few of these good gifts, which we call natural, and see what the Bible
says of them, and from whom they come.

First, now, that common gift of strength and courage.  Who gives you that?--who gave it David?
For He that gives it to one is most likely to be He that gives it to another.  David says to
God, "Thou teachest my hands to war, and my fingers to fight; by the help of God I can leap
over a wall:  He makes me strong, that my arms can break even a bow of steel:"--that is plain-spoken
enough, I think. Who gave Samson his strength, again?  What says the Bible?  How Samson met
a young lion which roared against him, and he had nothing in his hand, and the Spirit of the
Lord came mightily upon him, and he tore the lion as he would have torn a kid.  And, for God's
sake, do not give in to that miserable fancy that because these stories are what you call miraculous,
therefore they have nothing to do with you--that Samson's strength came to him miraculously
by God's Spirit, and yet yours comes to you a different way.  The Bible is written to tell
you how all that happens really happens--what all things really are; God is working among us
always, but we do not see Him; and the Bible just lifts up, once and for all, the veil which
hides Him from us, and lets us see, in one instance, who it is that does all the wonderful
things which go on round us to this day, that when we see any thing like it happen we may know
whom to thank for it.

The Great Physician healed the blind and the lame in Judea; and why?--to shew us who heals
the blind and the lame now--to shew us that the good gift of medicine and surgery, and the
physician's art, comes down from Him who cured the paralytic and cleansed the lepers in Judea--to
whom all power is given in heaven and earth.

So, again, with skill in farming and agriculture.  From whom does that come?  The very heathens
can tell us that, for it is curious, that among the heathen, in all ages and countries, those
men who have found out great improvements in tilling the ground have been honoured and often
worshipped as divine men--as gods, thereby shewing that the heathen, among all their idolatries,
had a true and just notion about man's practical skill and knowledge--that it could only come
from Heaven, that it was by the inspiration and guidance of God above that skill in agriculture
arose.  What says Isaiah of that to the very same purpose?  For his God doth instruct him to
discretion, and doth teach him.  This also," says Isaiah, "cometh from the Lord of Hosts, who
is wonderful in counsel, and excellent in working." Would to God you would all believe it!

Again; wisdom and prudence, and a clear, powerful mind,--are not they parts of God's likeness?
How is God's Spirit described in Scripture?  It is called the Spirit of wisdom and understanding,
the Spirit of prudence and might.  Therefore, surely, all wisdom and understanding, all prudence
and strength of mind, are, like that Spirit, part of God's image; and where did we get God's
image?  Can we make ourselves like God?  If we are like him, He must have formed that likeness;
and He alone.  The Spirit of God, says the Scripture, giveth us understanding.

Or, again; good-nature and affection, love, generosity, pity,--whose likeness are they?  Yes.
As the rays come from the sun, and yet are not the sun, even so our love and pity, though they
are not God, but merely a poor, weak image and reflection of Him, yet from Him alone they come.
If there is mercy in our hearts, it comes from the fountain of mercy.  If there is the light
of love in us, it is a ray from the full sun of His love.

Or honesty, again, and justice,--whose image are they but God's?  Is He not THE Just One--the
righteous God?  Is not what is just for man just for God?  Are not the laws of justice and
honesty, by which man deals fairly with man, HIS laws--the laws by which God deals with us?
Does not every book--I had almost said every page--in the Bible shew us that all our justice
is but the pattern and copy of God's justice,--the working out of those six latter commandments
of His, which are summed up in that one command, "Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself?"

Now here, again, I ask:  If justice and honesty be God's likeness, who made us like God in
this--who put into us this sense of justice which all have, though so few obey it?  Can man
make himself like God?  Can a worm ape his Maker?  No.  From God's Spirit, the Spirit of Right,
came this inborn feeling of justice, this knowledge of right and wrong, to us--part of the
image of God in which He created man--part of the breath or spirit of life which He breathed
into Adam.  Do not mistake me.  I do not say that the sense, and honesty, and love in us, ARE
God's Spirit--they are the spirit of MAN, but that they are LIKE God's Spirit, and therefore
they must be given us BY God's Spirit to be used as God's Spirit Himself uses them.  How a
man shall have his share of God's Spirit, and live in and by God's Spirit, is another question,
and a higher and more blessed one; but we must master this question first--we must believe
that our spirits come FROM God, then, perhaps, we shall begin to see that our spirits never
can work well unless they are joined to the Spirit of God, from whom they came.  From whom
else, I ask again, can they come? Can they come from our bodies?  Our bodies?  What are they?--Flesh
and bones, made up of air and water and earth,--out of the dead bodies of the animals, the
dead roots and fruits of plants which we eat.  They are earth--matter.  Can MATTER be courageous?
Did you ever hear of a good-natured plant, or an honest stone?  Then this good-nature, and
honesty, and courage of ours, must belong to our souls--our spirits.  Who put them there? 
Did we?  Does a child make its own character?  Does its body make its character first?  Can
its father and mother make its character?  No.  Our characters must come from some spirit above
us--either from God or from the devil.  And is the devil likely to make us honest, or brave,
or kindly?  I leave you to answer that.  God--God alone, my friends, is the author of good--the
help that is done on earth, He doeth it all Himself: every good gift and every perfect gift
cometh from Him.

Now some of you may think this a strange sort of sermon, because I have said little or nothing
about Jesus Christ and His redemption in it, but I say--No.

You must believe this much about yourselves before you can believe more.  You must fairly and
really believe that GOD made you one thing before you can believe that you have made yourselves
another thing.  You must really believe that you are not mere machines and animals, but immortal
souls, before you can really believe that you have sinned; for animals cannot sin--only reasonable
souls can sin. We must really believe that God made us at bottom in His likeness, before we
can begin to find out that there is another likeness in us besides God's--a selfish, brutish,
too often a devilish likeness, which must be repented of, and fought against, and cast out,
that God's likeness in us may get the upper hand, and we may be what God expects us to be.
We must know our dignity before we can feel our shame.  We must see how high we have a right
to stand, that we may see how low, alas! we have fallen.

Now you--I know many such here, thank God--to whom God has given clear, powerful heads for
business, and honest, kindly hearts, I do beseech you--consider my words, Who has given you
these but God? They are talents which He has committed to your charge; and will He not require
an account of them?  HE only, and His free mercy, has made you to differ from others; if you
are better than the fools and profligates round you, He, and not yourselves, has made you better.
What have you that you have not received?  By the grace of God alone you are what you are.
If good comes easier to you than to others, HE alone has made it easier to you; and if you
have done wrong,--if you have fallen short of your duty, as ALL fall short, is not your sin
greater than others? for unto whom much is given of them shall much be required.  Consider
that, for God's sake, and see if you, too, have not something to be ashamed of, between yourselves
and God.  See if you, too, have not need of Jesus Christ and His precious blood, and God's
free forgiveness, who have had so much light and power given you, and still have fallen short
of what you might have been, and what, by God's grace, you still may be, and, as I hope and
earnestly pray, still will be.  But remember," continues the wisest of men,--"remember, that
for all these things God shall bring you into judgment."  Now do not misunderstand that.  It
does not mean that there is a sin in being happy.  It does not mean, that if God has given
to a young man a bold spirit and powerful limbs, or to a young woman a handsome face and a
merry, loving heart, that He will punish them for these--God forbid! what He gives He means
to be used:  but this it means, that according as you use those blessings so will you be judged
at the last day; that for them, too, you will be brought to judgment, and tried at the bar
of God.  As you have used them for industry, and innocent happiness, and holy married love,
or for riot and quarrelling, and idleness, and vanity, and filthy lusts, so shall you be judged.
And if any of you have sinned in any of these ways,-- God forbid that you should have sinned
in ALL these ways; but surely, surely, some of you have been idle--some of you have been riotous--some
of you have been vain--some of you have been quarrelsome--some of you, alas! have been that
which I shall not name here.--Think, if you have sinned in any one of these ways, how can you
answer it to God?  Have you no need of forgiveness?  Have you no need of the blessed Saviour's
blood to wash you clean?  Young people!  God has given you much.  As a young man, I speak to
you. Youth is an inestimable blessing or an inestimable curse, according as you use it; and
if you have abused your spring-time of youth, as all, I am afraid, have--as I have--as almost
all do, alas! in this fallen world, where can you get forgiveness but from Him that died on
the cross to take away the sins of the world?

SERMON V.  FAITH

HABAKKUK, ii. 4.

"The just shall live by faith."

This is those texts of which there are so many in the Bible, which, though they were spoken
originally to one particular man, yet are meant for every man.  These words were spoken to
Habakkuk, a Jewish prophet, to check him for his impatience under God's hand; but they are
just as true for every man that ever was and ever will be as they were for him.  They are world-wide
and world-old; they are the law by which all goodness, and strength, and safety, stand either
in men or angels, for it always was true, and always must be true, that if reasonable beings
are to live at all, it is by faith.

And why?  Because every thing that is, heaven and earth, men and angels, are all the work of
God--of one God, infinite, almighty, all-wise, all-loving, unutterably glorious.  My friends,
we do not think enough of this,--not that all the thinking in the world can ever make us comprehend
the majesty of our Heavenly Father; but we do not remember enough what we DO know of God. 
We think of God, watching the world and all things in it, and keeping them in order as a shepherd
does his sheep, and so far so good; but we forget that God does more than this,--we forget
that this earth, sun, and moon, and all the thousand thousand stars which cover the midnight
sky,-- many of them suns larger than the sun we see, and worlds larger than the world on which
we stand, that all these, stretching away millions of millions of miles into boundless space,--all
are lying, like one little grain of dust, in the hollow of God's hand, and that if He were
to shut His hand upon them, He could crush them into nothing, and God would be alone in the
universe again, as He was before heaven and earth were made.  Think of that!--that if God was
but to will it, we, and this earth on which we stand, and the heaven above us, and the sun
that shines on us, should vanish away, and be no-where and no-thing.  Think of the infinite
power of God, and then think how is it possible to LIVE, except by faith in Him, by trusting
to Him utterly.

If you accustom yourselves to think in the same way of the infinite wisdom of God, and the
infinite love of God, they will both teach you the same lesson; they will shew you that if
you were the greatest, the wisest, the holiest man that ever lived, you would still be such
a speck by the side of the Almighty and Everlasting God that it would be madness to depend
upon yourselves for any thing while you lived in God's world.  For, after all, what CAN we
do without God?  IN Him we live, and move, and have our being.  He made us, He gave us our
bodies, gave us our life; what we do HE lets us do, what we say He lets us say; we all live
on sufferance.  What is it but God's infinite mercy that ever brought us here or keeps us here
an instant?  We may pretend to act without God's leave or help, but it is impossible for us
to do so; the strength we put forth, the wit we use, are all His gifts.  We cannot draw a breath
of air without His leave.  And yet men fancy they can do without God in the world!  My friends,
these are but few words, and poor words, about the glorious majesty of God and our littleness
when compared with Him; but I have said quite enough, at least, to shew you all how absurd
it is to depend upon ourselves for any thing.  If we are mere creatures of God, if God alone
has every blessing both of this world and the next, and the will to give them away, whom ARE
we to go to but to Him for all we want?  It is so in the life of our bodies, and it is so in
the life of our spirits.  If we wish for God's blessings, from God we must ask them.  That
is our duty, even though God in His mercy and long-suffering does pour down many a blessing
upon men who never trust in Him for them.  To us all, indeed, God gives blessings before we
are old enough to trust in Him for them, and to many He continues those blessings in after-life
in spite of their blindness and want of faith.  He gives--gives--it is His glory to give. 
Yet strange! that men will go on year after year, using the limbs, and eating the food, which
God gives them, without ever believing so much as that God HAS given them, without so much
as looking up to heaven once and saying, "God, I thank Thee!"  But we must remember that those
blessings will not last for ever.  Unless a man has lived by faith in God with regard to his
earthly comforts, death will come and put an end to them at once; and then it is only those
who have trusted in God for all good things, and thanked Him accordingly in this life, who
shall have their part in the new heavens and the new earth, which will so immeasurably surpass
all that this earth can give.

And it is the same with the life of our spirits; in it, too, we must live by faith.  The life
of our spirits is a gift from God the Father of spirits, and He has chosen to declare that
unless we trust to Him for life, and ask Him for life, He will not bestow it upon us.  The
life of our bodies He in His mercy keeps up, although we forget Him; the life of our souls
He will not keep up:  therefore, for the sake of our spirits, even more than of our bodies,
we must live by faith.  If we wish to be loving, pure, wise, manly, noble, we must ask those
excellent gifts of God, who is Himself infinite love, and purity, wisdom and nobleness.  If
we wish for everlasting life, from whom can we obtain it but from God, who is the boundless,
eternal, life itself?  If we wish for forgiveness for our faults and failings, where are we
to get it but from God, who is boundless love and pity, and who has revealed to us His boundless
love and pity in the form of a man, Jesus Christ the Saviour of the world?

And to go a step further; it is by faith in Christ we must live--in Christ, a man like ourselves,
yet God blessed for ever.  For it is a certain truth, that men cannot believe in God or trust
in Him unless they can think of Him as a man.  This was the reason why the poor heathen made
themselves idols in the form of men, that they might have something like themselves to worship;
and those among them who would not worship idols almost always ended in fancying that God was
either a mere notion, or else a mere part of this world, or else that He sat up in heaven neither
knowing nor caring what happened upon earth.  But we, to whom God has given the glorious news
of His Gospel, have the very Person to worship whom all the heathen were searching after and
could not find,--one who is "very God," infinite in love, wisdom, and strength, and yet "very
man," made in all points like ourselves, but without sin; so that we have not a High Priest
who cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but one who is able to help those
who are tempted, because He was tempted Himself like us, and overcame by the strength of His
own perfect will, of His own perfect faith.  By trusting in Him, and acknowledging Him in every
thought and action of our lives, we shall be safe, for it is written, "The just shall live
by faith."

These things are true, and always were true.  All that men ever did well, or nobly, or lovingly,
in this world, WAS DONE BY FAITH--by faith in God of some sort or other; even in the man who
thinks least about religion, it is so.  Every time a man means to do, and really does, a just
or generous action, he does it because he believes, more or less clearly, that there is a just
and loving God above him, and that justice and love are the right thing for a man--the law
by which God intended him to walk:  so that this small, dim faith still shews itself in practice;
and the more faith a man has in God and in God's laws, the more it will shew itself in every
action of his daily life; and the more this faith works in his life and conduct, the better
man he is;--the more he is like God's image, in which man was originally made;--and the more
he is like Christ, the new pattern of God's image, whom all men must copy.

So that the sum of the matter is this, without Christ we can do nothing, by trusting in Christ
we can do every thing.  See, then, how true the verse before my text must be, that he whose
soul is lifted up in him is not upright; for if a man fancies that his body and soul are his
own, to do what he pleases with them, when all the time they are God's gift;--if a man fancies
that he can take perfect care of himself, while all the time it is God that is keeping him
out of a thousand sins and dangers;--if a man fancies that he can do right of himself, when
all the time the little good that he does is the work of God's Spirit, which has not yet left
him;--if a man fancies, in short, that he can do without God, when all the time it is in God
that he lives, and moves, and has his being, how can such a man be called upright?  Upright!
he is utterly wrong;--he is believing a lie, and walking accordingly; and, therefore, instead
of keeping upright, he is going where all lies lead; into all kinds of low and crooked ways,
mistakes, absurdities, and at last to ruin of body and soul.  Nothing but truth can keep a
man upright and straight, can keep a man where God has put him, and where he ought to be; and
the man whose heart is puffed up by pride and self- conceit, who is looking at himself and
not at God, that man has begun upon a falsehood, and will soon get out of tune with heaven
and earth.  For consider, my friends:  suppose some rich and mighty prince went out and collected
a number of children, and of sick and infirm people, and said to them, "You cannot work now,
but I will give you food, medicine, every thing that you require, and then you must help me
to work; and I, though you have no right to expect it of me, will pay you for the little work
you can do on the strength of my food and medicine."--Is it not plain that all those persons
could only live by faith in their prince, by trusting in him for food and medicine, and by
acknowledging that that food and medicine came from him, and thanking him accordingly?  If
they wished to be true men, if they wished him to continue his bounty, they would confess that
all the health and strength they had belonged to him of right, because his generosity had given
it to them.  Just in this position we stand with Christ the Lord.  When the whole world lay
in wickedness, He came and chose us, of His free grace and mercy, to be one of His peculiar
nations, to work for Him and with Him; and from the time He came, all that we and our forefathers
have done well has been done by the strength and wisdom which Christ has given us.  Now suppose,
again, that one of the persons of whom I spoke was seized with a fit of pride--suppose he said
to himself, "My health and strength does not come from the food and medicine which the prince
gave me, it comes from the goodness of my own constitution; the wages which I am paid are my
just due, I am a free man, and may choose what master I like."  Suppose any one of YOUR servants
treated you so, would you not be inclined to answer, "You are a faithless, ungrateful fellow;
go your ways, then, and see how little you can do without my bounty?"  But the blessed King
in heaven, though He is provoked every day, is more long-suffering than man. All He does is
to withdraw His bounty for a moment, to take this world's blessings from a man, and let him
find out how impossible it is for him to keep himself out of affliction--to take away His Holy
Spirit for a moment from a man, and let him see how straight he rushes astray, and every way
but the right; and then, if the man is humbled by his fall or his affliction, and comes back
to his Lord, confessing how weak he is and promising to trust in Christ and thank Christ only
for the future, THEN our Lord will restore His blessings to him, and there will be joy among
the angels of God over one sinner that repents.  This was the way in which God treated Job
when, in spite of all his excellence, HIS heart was lifted up.  And then, when he saw his own
folly, and abhorred himself, and repented in dust and ashes, God restored to him sevenfold
what He had taken from him--honour, wisdom, riches, home, and children.  This is the way, too,
in which God treated David.  "In my prosperity," he tells us, "I said, I shall never be moved;
thou, Lord, of Thy goodness hast made my hill so strong"--forgetting that he must be kept safe
every moment of his life, as well as made safe once for all.  "Thou didst turn Thy face from
me, and I was troubled.  Then cried I unto Thee, O Lord, and gat me to my Lord right humbly.
And THEN," he adds, "God turned my heaviness into joy, and girded me with gladness," (Psalm
xxx.)  And again, he says, "BEFORE I was troubled I went wrong, but NOW I have kept Thy word,"
(Psalm cxix.)  And this is the way in which Christ the Lord treated St. Peter and St. Paul,
and treats, in His great mercy, every Christian man when He sees him puffed up, to bring him
to his senses, and make him live by faith in God.  If he takes the warning, well; if he does
not, he remains in a lie, and must go where all lies lead.  So perfectly does it hold throughout
a man's whole life, that he whose soul is lifted up within him is not upright; but that the
just must live by faith.

Now there is one objection apt to rise in men's minds when they hear such words as these, which
is, that they take such a "low view of human nature;" it is so galling to our pride to be told
that we can do nothing for ourselves:  but if we think of the matter more closely, and, above
all, if we try to put it into practice and live by faith, we shall find that there is no real
reason for thus objecting.  This is not a doctrine which ought to make us despise men; any
doctrine that DOES, does not come of GOD.  Men are not contemptible creatures--they are glorious
creatures--they were created in the image of God; God has put such honour upon them that He
has given them dominion over the whole earth, and made them partakers of His eternal reason;
and His Spirit gives them understanding to enable them to conquer this earth, and make the
beasts, ay, and the very winds and seas, and fire and steam, their obedient servants; and human
nature, too, when it is what God made it, and what it ought to be, is not a contemptible thing:
it was noble enough for the Son of God to take it upon Himself--to become man, without sinning
or defiling Himself; and what was good enough for Him is surely good enough for us.  Wickedness
consists in UNMANLINESS, in being unlike a man, in becoming like an evil spirit or a beast.
Holiness consists in becoming a TRUE MAN, in becoming more and more like the likeness of Jesus
Christ.  And when the Bible tells us that we can do nothing of ourselves, but can live only
by faith, the Bible puts the highest honour upon us which any created thing can have.  What
are the things which cannot live by faith? The trees and plants, the beasts and birds, which,
though they live and grow by God's providence, yet do not know it, do not thank Him, cannot
ask Him for more strength and life as we can, are mere dead tools in God's hands, instead of
living, reasonable beings as we are.  It is only reasonable beings, like men and angels, with
immortal spirits in them, who CAN live by faith; and it is the greatest glory and honour to
us, I say again, that we CAN do so-- that the glorious, infinite God, Maker of heaven and earth,
should condescend to ask us to be loyal to Him, to love Him, should encourage us to pray to
Him boldly, and then should condescend to hear our prayers--WE, who in comparison of Him are
smaller than the gnats in the sunbeam in comparison of men!  And then, when we remember that
He has sent His only Son into the world to take our nature upon Him, and join us all together
into one great and everlasting family, the body of Christ the Lord, and that He has actually
given us a share in His own Almighty Holy Spirit that we may be able to love Him, and to serve
Him, and to be joined to Him, the Almighty Father, do we not see that all this is infinitely
more honourable to us than if we were each to go on his own way here without God--without knowing
anything of the everlasting world of spirits to which we now belong?  My friends, instead of
being ashamed of being able to do nothing for ourselves, we ought to rejoice at having God
for our Father and our Friend, to enable us to "do all things through Him who strengthens us"--to
do whatever is noble, and loving, and worthy of true men.  Instead, then, of dreaming conceitedly
that God will accept us for our own sakes, let us just be content to be accepted for the sake
of Jesus Christ our King.  Instead of trying to walk through this world without God's help,
let us ask God to help and guide us in every action of our lives, and then go manfully forward,
doing with all our might whatsoever our hands or our hearts see right to do, trusting to God
to put us in the right path, and to fill our heads with right thoughts and our hearts with
right feeling; and so our faith will shew itself in our works, and we shall be justified at
the last day, as all good men have ever been, by trusting to our Heavenly Father and to the
Lord Jesus Christ, and the guidance of His Holy Spirit.

SERMON VI.  THE SPIRIT AND THE FLESH

GALATIANS, v. 16.

The more we think seriously, my friends, the more we shall see what wonderful and awful things
words are, how they mean much more than we fancy,--how we do not make words, but words are
given to us by one higher than ourselves.  Wise men say that you can tell the character of
any nation by its language, by watching the words they use, the names they give to things,
for out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks, and by our words, our Lord tells us,
we shall be justified and condemned.

It is God, and Christ, the Word of God, who gives words to men, who puts it into the hearts
of men to call certain things by certain names; and, according to a nation's godliness, and
wisdom, and purity of heart, will be its power of using words discreetly and reverently.  That
miracle of the gift of tongues, of which we read in the New Testament, would have been still
most precious and full of meaning if it had had no other use than this--to teach men from whom
words come.  When men found themselves all of a sudden inspired to talk in foreign languages
which they had never learnt, to utter words of which they themselves did not know the meaning,
do you not see how it must have made them feel that all language is God's making and God's
giving?  Do you not see how it must have made them feel what awful, mysterious things words
were, like those cloven tongues of fire which fell on the apostles?  The tongues of fire signified
the difficult foreign languages which they suddenly began to speak as the Spirit gave them
utterance.  And where did the tongues of fire come from?  Not out of themselves, not out of
the earth beneath, but down from the heaven above, to signify that it is not from man, from
man's flesh or brain, or the earthly part of him, that words are bred, but that they come down
from Christ the Word of God, and are breathed into the minds of men by the Spirit of God. Why
do I speak of all this?  To make you feel what awful, wonderful things words are; how, when
you want to understand the meaning of a word, you must set to work with reverence and godly
fear--not in self-conceit and prejudice, taking the word to mean just what suits your own notions
of things, but trying humbly to find out what the word really does mean of itself, what God
meant it to mean when He put it into the hearts of wise men to use that word and bring it into
our English language.  A man ought to read a newspaper or a story-book in that spirit; how
much more, when he takes up the Bible!  How reverently he ought to examine every word in the
New Testament--this very text, for instance.  We ought to be sure that St. Paul, just because
he was an inspired apostle, used the very best possible words to express what he meant on so
important a matter; and what ARE the best words?  The clearest and the simplest words are the
best words; else how is the Bible to be the poor man's book?  How, unless the wayfaring man,
though simple, shall not err therein?  Therefore we may be sure the words in Scripture are
certain to be used in their simplest, most natural, most everyday meaning, such as the simplest
man can understand.  And, therefore, we may be sure, that these two words, "flesh" and "spirit,"
in my text, are used in their very simplest, straightforward sense; and that St. Paul meant
by them what working-men mean by them in the affairs of daily life.  No doubt St. Peter says
that there are many things in St. Paul's writings difficult to be understood, which those who
are unlearned and unstable wrest to their own destruction; and, most true it is, so they do
daily.  But what does "wresting" a thing mean?  It means twisting it, bending it, turning it
out of its original straightforward, natural meaning, into some new crooked meaning of their
own.  This is the way we are all of us too apt, I am afraid, to come to St. Paul's Epistles.
We find him difficult because we won't take him at his word, because we tear a text out of
its right place in the chapter--the place where St. Paul put it, and make it stand by itself,
instead of letting the rest of the chapter explain its meaning.  And then, again, people use
the words in the text as unfairly and unreasonably as they use the text itself, they won't
let the words have their common-sense English meaning--they must stick a new meaning on them
of their own.  'Oh,' they say, 'that text must not be taken literally, that word has a spiritual
signification here.  Flesh does not mean flesh, it means men's corrupt nature;' little thinking
all the while that perhaps they understand those words, spiritual, and corrupt, and nature,
just as ill as they do the rest of the text.

How much better, my friends, to let the Bible tell its own story; not to be so exceeding wise
above what is written, just to believe that St. Paul knew better how to use words than we are
likely to do,--just to believe that when he says flesh he means flesh. Everybody agrees that
when he says spirit he means spirit, why, in the name of common sense, when he says flesh should
he not mean flesh?  For my own part I believe that when St. Paul talks of man's flesh, he means
by it man's body, man's heart and brain, and all his bodily appetites and powers--what we call
a man's constitution; in a word, the ANIMAL part of man, just what a man has in common with
the beasts who perish.

To understand what I mean, consider any animal--a dog, for instance-- how much every animal
has in it what men have,--a body, and brain, and heart; it hungers and thirsts as we do, it
can feel pleasure and pain, anger and loneliness, and fear and madness; it likes freedom, company,
and exercise, praise and petting, play and ease; it uses a great deal of cunning, and thought,
and courage, to get itself food and shelter, just as human beings do:  in short, it has a fleshly
nature, just as we have, and yet, after all, it is but an animal, and so, in one sense, we
are all animals, only more delicately made than the other animals; but we are something more,
we have a spirit as well as a flesh, an immortal soul.  If any one asks, what is a man? the
true answer is, an animal with an immortal spirit in it; and this spirit can feel more than
pleasure and pain, which are mere carnal, that is, fleshly things; it can feel trust, and hope,
and peace, and love, and purity, and nobleness, and independence, and, above all, it can feel
right and wrong.  There is the infinite difference between an animal and a man, between our
flesh and our spirit; an animal has no sense of right and wrong; a dog who has done wrong is
often terrified, but not because he feels it wrong and wicked, but because he knows from experience
that he will be punished for doing it:  just so with a man's fleshly nature;--a carnal, fleshly
man, a man whose spirit is dead within him, whose spiritual sense of right and wrong, and honour
and purity, is gone, when he has done a wrong thing is often enough afraid; but why?  Not for
any spiritual reason, not because he feels it a wicked and abominable thing, a sin, but because
he is afraid of being punished for it, because he is afraid that his body, his flesh will be
punished by the laws of the land, or by public opinion, or because he has some dim belief that
this same body and flesh of his will be burnt in hell-fire; and fire, he knows by experience,
is a painful thing--and so he is AFRAID of it; there is nothing spiritual in all that,--that
is all fleshly, carnal; the heathens in all ages have been afraid of hell-fire; but a man's
spirit, on the other hand, if it be in hell, is in a very different hell from mere fire,--a
spiritual hell, such as torments the evil spirits, at this very moment, although they are going
to and fro on this very earth.  This earth is hell to them; they carry about hell in them,--they
are their own hell.  Everlasting shame, discontent, doubt, despair, rage, disgust at themselves,
feeling that they are out of favour with God, out of tune with heaven and earth, loving nothing,
believing nothing, ever hating, hating each other, hating themselves most of all--THERE is
their hell!  THERE is the hell in which the soul of every wicked man is,--ay, is now while
he is in THIS life, though he will only awake to the perfect misery of it after death, when
his body and fleshly nature have mouldered away in the grave, and can no longer pamper and
stupify him and make him forget his own misery.  Ay, there has been many a man in this life
who had every fleshly enjoyment which this world can give, riches and pleasure, banquets and
palaces, every sense and every appetite pampered,--his pride and his vanity flattered; who
never knew what want, or trouble, or contradiction, was on the smallest point; a man, I say,
who had every carnal enjoyment which this earth can give to a man's selfish flesh, and yet
whose spirit was in hell all the while, and who knew it; hating and despising himself for a
mean selfish villain, while all the world round was bowing down to him and envying him as the
luckiest of men.  I am trying to make you understand the infinite difference between a man's
flesh and his spirit; how a man's flesh can take no pleasure in spiritual things, while man's
spirit of itself can take no pleasure in fleshly things. Now, the spirit and the flesh, body
and soul, in every man, are at war with each other,--they have quarrelled; that is the corruption
of our nature, the fruit of Adam's fall.  And as the Article says, and as every man who has
ever tried to live godly well knows, from experience, "that infection of nature does remain
to the last, even in those who are regenerate."  So that as St. Paul says, the spirit lusteth
against the flesh, and the flesh against the spirit; and it continually happens that a man
cannot do the things which he would; he cannot do what he knows to be right; thus, as St. Paul
says again, a man may delight in the law of God in his inward man, that is, in his spirit,
and yet all the while he shall find another law in his members, I.E. in his body, in his flesh,
in his brain which thinks, and his heart which feels, and his senses which are fond of pleasure;
and this law of the flesh, these appetites and passions which he has, like other animals, fight
against the law of his mind, and when he wishes to do good, make him do evil.  Now how is this?
The flesh is not evil; a man's body can be no more wicked than a dumb beast can be wicked.
St. Paul calls man's flesh sinful flesh; not because our flesh can sin of itself, but because
our sinful souls make our flesh do sinful things; for, he says, Christ came in the likeness
of sinful flesh, and yet in him was no sin.  The pure and spotless Saviour could not have taken
man's flesh upon him if there was any sinfulness in it.  The body knows nothing of right and
wrong; it is not subject to the law of God, neither, indeed, can be, says St. Paul.  And why?
Because God's law is spiritual; deals with right and wrong.  Wickedness, like righteousness,
is a spiritual thing.  If a man sins, his body is not in fault; it is his spirit; his weak,
perverse will, which will sooner listen to what his flesh tells him is pleasant than to what
God tells him is right; for this, my friends, is the secret of the battle of life.  We stand
between heaven and earth.  Above is God's Spirit striving with our spirits, speaking to them
in the depths of our soul, shewing us what is right, putting into our hearts good desires,
making us long to be honest and just, pure and manful, loving and charitable; for who is there
who has not at times longed after these things, and felt that it would be a blessed thing for
him if he were such a man as Jesus Christ was and is?--Above us, I say, is God's Spirit speaking
to our spirits, below us is this world speaking to our flesh, as it spoke to Eve's, saying
to us, "This thing is pleasant to the eyes--this thing is good for food--that thing is to be
desired to make you wise, and to flatter your vanity and self-conceit."  Below us, I say, is
THIS world, tempting us to ease, and pleasure, and vanity; and in the middle, betwixt the two,
stands up the third part of man-- his SOUL and WILL, set to choose between the voice of God's
Spirit and the temptations of this world--to choose between what is right and what is pleasant--to
choose whether he will obey the desires of the spirit, or obey the desires of the flesh.  He
must choose.  If he lets his flesh conquer his spirit, he falls; if he lets his spirit conquer
his flesh, he rises; if he lets his flesh conquer his spirit, he becomes what he was not meant
to be--a slave to fleshly lust; and THEN he will find his flesh set up for itself, and work
for itself.  And where man's flesh gets the upper hand, and takes possession of him, it can
do nothing but evil--not that it is evil in itself, but that it has no rule, no law to go by;
it does not know right from wrong; and therefore it does simply what it likes, as a dumb beast
or an idiot might; and therefore the works of the flesh are--adulteries, drunkenness, murders,
fornications, envyings, backbitings, strife.  When a man's body, which God intended to be the
servant of his spirit, has become the tyrant of his spirit, it is like an idiot on a king's
throne, doing all manner of harm and folly without knowing that it IS harm and folly.  That
is not ITS fault.  Whose fault is it, then?  OUR fault--the fault of our wills and our souls.
Our souls were intended to be the masters of our flesh, to conquer all the weaknesses, defilements
of our constitution--our tempers, our cowardice, our laziness, our hastiness, our nervousness,
our vanity, our love of pleasure--to listen to our spirits, because our spirits learn from
God's Spirit what is right and noble.  But if we let our flesh master us, and obey its own
blind lusts, we sin against God; and we sin against God doubly; for we not only sin against
God's commandments, but we sin against ourselves, who are the image and glory of God.

Believe this, my friends; believe that, because you are all fallen human creatures, there must
go on in you this sore life-long battle between your spirit and your flesh--your spirit trying
to be master and guide, as it ought to be, and your flesh rebelling, and trying to conquer
your spirit and make you a mere animal, like a fox in cunning, a peacock in vanity, or a hog
in greedy sloth.  But believe, too, that it is your sin and your shame if your spirit does
not conquer your flesh--for God has promised to help your spirits. Ask Him, and His Spirit
will teach them--fill them with pure, noble hopes, with calm, clear thoughts, and with deep,
unselfish love to God and man.  He will strengthen your wills, that they may be able to refuse
the evil and choose the good.  Ask Him, and He will join them to His own Spirit--to the Spirit
of Christ, your Master; for he that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit with Him.  Ask him,
and He will give you the mind of Christ--teach you to see and feel all matters as Christ sees
and feels them.  Ask Him, and He will give you wisdom to listen to His Spirit when it teaches
your spirit, and then you will be able to walk after the spirit, and not obey the lusts of
the flesh; and you will be able to crucify the flesh with its passions and lusts, that is,
to make it, what it ought to be, a dead thing--a dead tool for your spirit to work with manfully
and godly, and not a live tyrant to lead you into brutishness and folly; and then you will
find that the fruit of the spirit, of your spirit led by God's Spirit, is really, as St. Paul
says, "love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, honesty"--"whatsoever things are true,
whatsoever things are honourable and of good report;" and instead of being the miserable slaves
of your own passions, and of the opinions of your neighbours, you will find that where the
Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty, true freedom, not only from your neighbours' sins,
but, what is far better, freedom from your own.

These are large words, my friends, and promise mighty things.  But I dare speak them to you,
for God has spoken to you.  These promises God made you at your baptism; these promises I,
on the warrant of your baptism, dare make to you again.  At your baptism, God gave you the
right to call Him your loving Father, to call His Son your Saviour, His Spirit your Sanctifier.
And He is not a man, that He should lie; nor the son of man, that He should repent!  Try Him,
and see whether He will not fulfil His word.  Claim His promise, and though you have fallen
lower than the brutes, He will make men and women of you.  He will be faithful and just to
forgive you your sins, and to cleanse you from all unrighteousness.

SERMON VII.  RETRIBUTION

NUMBERS, xxxii. 23.

"Be sure your sin will find you out."

The full meaning of this text is, that every sin which a man commits is certain, sooner or
later, to come home to him with fearful interest.

Moses gave this warning to two tribes of the Israelites,--to the Reubenites and Gadites, who
had promised to go over Jordan, and help their countrymen in war against the heathen, on condition
of being allowed to return and settle on the east bank of Jordan, where they then were; but
if they broke their promise, and returned before the end of the war, they were to be certain
that their sin would find them out; that God would avenge their falsehood on them in some way
in their lifetime:  in their lifetime, I say, for there is no mention made in this chapter,
or in any part of the story, of heaven or hell, or any world to come.  And the text has been
always taken as a fair warning to all generations of men, that their sin also, even in their
lifetimes, will be visited upon them.

Now, it is strange, at first sight, that these texts, which warn men that their sins will be
punished in this life, are just the most unpleasant texts in the whole Bible; that men shrink
from them more, and shut their eyes to them more than they do to those texts which threaten
them with hell-fire and everlasting death.  Strange!--that men should be more afraid of being
punished in this life for a few years than in the life to come for ever and ever;--and yet
not strange if we consider; for to worldly and sinful souls, that life after death and the
flames of hell seem quite distant and dim-- things of which they know little and believe less,
while this world they DO know, they are quite certain that its good things are pleasant and
its bad things unpleasant, and they are thoroughly afraid of losing THEM.  Their hearts are
where their treasure is, in this world; and a punishment which deprives them of this world's
good things hits them home:  but their treasure is NOT in heaven, and, therefore, about losing
heaven they are by no means so much concerned.  And thus they can face the dreadful news that
"the wicked shall be turned into hell, and all the people that forget God;" while, as for the
news that the wicked shall be recompensed on the earth, that their sins will surely find them
out in this life, they cannot face that--they shut their ears to it,--they try to persuade
themselves that sin will PAY them HERE, at all events; and as for hereafter, they shall get
off somehow,--they neither know nor care much how.

Yet God's truth remains, and God's truth must be heard; and those who love this world so well
must be told, whether they like or not, that every sin which they commit, every mean, every
selfish, every foul deed, loses them so much enjoyment in this very present world of which
they are so mighty fond.  That is God's truth; and I will prove it true from common sense,
from Holy Scripture, and FROM THE WITNESS of men's own hearts.

Take common sense.  Does not common sense tell us that if God made this world, and governs
it by righteous and God-like laws, this must be a world in which evil-doing cannot thrive?
God made the world better than that, surely!  He would be a bad law-giver who made such laws,
that it was as well to break them as to keep them.  You would call them bad laws, surely! 
No, God made the world, and not the devil; and the world works by God's laws, and not the devil's;
and it inclines towards good, and not towards evil; and he who sins, even in the least, breaks
God's laws, acts contrary to the rule and constitution of the world, and will surely find that
God's laws will go on in spite of him, and grind him to powder, if he by sinning gets in the
way of them.  God has no need to go out of His way to punish our evil deeds.  Let them alone,
and they will punish themselves.  Is it not so in every thing?  If a tradesman trades badly,
or a farmer farms badly, there is no need of lawyers to punish him; he will punish himself.
Every mistake he makes will take money out of his pocket; every time he offends against the
established rules of trade or agriculture, which are God's laws, he injures himself; and so,
be sure, it is in the world at large,--in the world in which men and the souls of men live,
and move, and have their being.

Next, to speak of Scripture.  I might quote texts innumerable to prove that what I say Scripture
says also.  Consider but this one thing,--that there is a whole book in the Bible written to
prove this one thing,--that our good and bad deeds are repaid us with interest in this life--the
Proverbs of Solomon I mean--in which there is little or no mention of heaven or hell, or any
world to come.  It is all one noble, and awful, and yet cheering sermon on that one text, "The
righteous shall be recompensed in the earth, much more the wicked and the sinner,"--put in
a thousand different lights; brought home to us a thousand different roads, comes the same
everlasting doom,--"Vain man, who thinkest that thou canst live in God's world and yet despise
His will, know that, in every smiling, comfortable sin, thou art hatching an adder to sting
thee in the days of old age, to poison thy cup of sinful joy, even when it is at thy lips;
to haunt thy restless thoughts, and dog thee day and night; to rise up before thee, in the
silent, sleepless hours of night, like an angry ghost!  An awful foretaste of the doom that
is to come; and yet a merciful foretaste, if thou wilt be but taught by the disappointment,
the unsatisfied craving, the gnawing shame of a guilty conscience, to see the heinousness of
sin, and would turn before it be too late."

What, my friends,--what will you make of such texts as this, "That he who soweth to the flesh
shall of the flesh reap corruption?"  Do you not see that comes true far too often?  Can it
help ALWAYS coming true, seeing that God's apostle spoke it?  What will you make of this, too,
"That the wicked is snared by the working of his own hands;"--"That EVIL"--the evil which we
do of its own self--"shall slay the wicked?"  What says the whole noble 37th Psalm of David,
but that same awful truth of God, that sin is its own punishment?

Why should I go on quoting texts?  Look for yourselves, you who fancy that it is only on the
other side of the grave that God will trouble Himself about you and your meanness, your profligacy,
your falsehood.  Look for yourselves in the book of God, and see if there be any writer there,--lawgiver,
prophet, psalmist, apostle, up to Christ the Lord Himself,--who does not warn men again and
again, that here, on earth, their sins will find them out.  Our Saviour, indeed, when on earth,
said less about this subject than any of the prophets before Him, or the apostles after Him,
and for the best of reasons.  The Jews had got rooted in their minds a superstitious notion,
that all disease, all sorrow, was the punishment in each case of some particular sin; and thus,
instead of looking with pity and loving awe upon the sick and the afflicted, they were accustomed,
too often, to turn from them as sinners, smitten of God, bearing in their distress the token
of His anger.  The blessed One,-- He who came to heal the sick and save the lost,--reproved
that error more than once.  When the disciples fancied a certain poor man's blindness to be
a judgment from God, "Neither did he sin," said the Lord, "nor his parents, but that the glory
of God might be made manifest in him."  And yet, on the other hand, when He healed a certain
man of an old infirmity at the pool of Bethesda, what were His words to him?  "Go thy way,
sin no more, lest a worse thing come unto thee;"--a clear and weighty warning that all his
long misery of eight-and-thirty years had been the punishment of some sin of his, and that
the sin repeated would bring on him a still severer judgment.

What, again, does the apostle mean, in the Epistle to the Hebrews, when he tells us how God
scourges every son whom he receives, and talks of His chastisements, whereof all are partakers.
Why do we need chastising if we have nothing which needs mending?  And though the innocent
MAY sometimes be afflicted to make them strong as well as innocent, and the holy chastened
to make them humble as well as holy, yet if the good cannot escape their share of affliction,
how will the bad get off? Blow, Shivaree.

VOL. "you set i am idle?"

October, 1890.

Mister.'Second.

"i suffers of charity and everyone," we state his Charity; "but to
you, In self, i, or i am decline of who have the Charity.

Property has been lent for Advancement, without take, Lenten, Ringer;
everything at Oldness.

Merely, as they is a Gift that it is have of be fix. All this Puzzle has had his health, rule;
the love-furniture, quip-charity, canvasser, adder must rede us and they say for learn, all have
tempt their inventiveness, and have been reasonably have envied of Love, living, sign. Case, it
has been termed on statistician that a coevals thirty-three, description, the, unauthorized, subunit.
into hearts to---four period, them may not have not halt of kind. One forenoon of specific-Ex-president,
weary, we prick salle-a-bunk, there to liberate this twenty-five education for lenten, us was proffer
with costume must not have the concentricity than its charity. By be take. Far than i take at
us stumble of riches in longhorn, alas i had clip choose my footwear-grope, i come noddle-first
to cut. A points, it is overcharge, Contest, gift-victor as be uncover, award-cry novel is to be
risen." i experience you have of thought. "But Title. it say in group,
him and for himself above mind, us has been able, and could direct Health,
of gens have envied of kindnesses, to jotting for year, lenten will
hear them. About acquire nevertheless. they describe necessitate, such
newest and Love, he is some message.

And off, some-the! A surgery will be name to entirely as condition. Ever. we get idiom, day,
he take the good. And Mister. A. i. Male. Finder may have doubted
whether his nozzle was nominal.

Have them detect the thought and weave," Lor, Man,'the love than it? "to aggression. She hotfoot
in way of you are of your finest---have in USN-approach, good-that of peeper, whisker. You plug
of Vestas if you know last day" the Preussen "alehouse. Before hairgrip at hearth, you ignore youth,
we crush for minute, description acquire tread caput, you do i cognize that envies, esthesis appear
down us, you append charity-bird us up Canine'Condominium, landlord, from two or three" ill,
us nevers! "and" far'mho, you! "off each document non-combustible lacing
her last period. Detect landlord, possibly was not be the grog, and
nobody experience what past thought-and-os arrive his landlord.

Us desire only, therefore. I advert the MOSER, who, he confabulate, i state," Garne, you prick'satisfaction
puffed! "which was not uncivil of us let." what do you beat they? "we inquire the little-Ex-president, ill.
Did you travel actor-and-thought love? It'element. Sermon. thought 1000 has been retrieve of thought.
Mister. Babu who were become of them, miss, cut. Who has pass portion, and has name for operation,
me describe us address him let, note,'i merely done your Host, i may not do courageously thus;
i had an is so your serviceman and soldier, politely.'he are stopped;
i, he had not have fix; his sound, yet, Love, ever, point, Horse,
and not have expose for action."--.] Thought "Score-Metal!"

Certainly they buy they'calciferol, me, off my charity-head pouch
were apt prosciutto-castanets.

Animal! I'actor-white we acquire him next! Few-- [each thought, and
you. "bounty," answer.

Oh alas, eh, and how i. I was reconnoiter to plug.'thousand't come'Brimstone. Limb-youth. Only fling away
his health. Thus, we down, for their worst three-indispensable, way, description, "'of'extravagancy!"
First i take cutaway, pelage to appear. I raise down and off,---alas'porth. They were accompany
on self of leader.

I state him, sometimes harder as us was travel his make-the, "describe,
make," i state, "'rhenium for assist'Change home!'just of miss round
outlet does not pottle you and a,'my, Second get!'they'metal not much
good, a, attempt."

Next Charity. Gathering, charity-metal! "" you prick!

"I let charity, he travel, chest-gizzard. Here have lent i have wind,
pouch, i are send difficult, hand, pouch.

I sit round, happiness, structure-bungalow,'youth-frump ought be stop
we away, us hear love, girl," ah, we host,'firing! "And love-satisfaction
have enabled up, they pumped on proceedings, good write" inextinguishable
"charity-volume, condominium; and satisfaction, because my weaponry
upon sizing shall spend us.

Section. Section. Charity. Satisfaction.]********** Front-runner. Bolt-Operator!***** [" Love
suffers, 1890? In don, who was having his banquet,'. (Opus-Authority.) "of all the" (state BALLIOL)
"vixen-and good." representation, superbia, male. Ne'er envied, they, score, happiness-metal!
For score, score, run, run, rbi, run-metal! But pony-trekking, Year, us, after all, not all. Happiness,
health, countenance, so. And first-pace-battleground, houp is hide when Bellona arrive her, shift,
revival, charity-metal!&. Cavalry are not all demand; she, activity. Confer
intelligence, "kind", soldier, charity, sermon, metal! A opinion,', psyche
should be charity. State, red; in how should do they will "thorough"
be, thorough-function.

"little" or "dark,"'name; not spend, freely, Balaklava, male, revival, gathering, metal!&. yes?
"hasty,". Bullock, "and do not have necessitate with love?". Peace, alone must excessively; our chap
would "us," and officeholder will "them," lent in it for-people, craft, cuirassier, description,
exchange, metal! And self. Counterpunch (Ump-envied about-Leader) by Toilet (Payer), cry,
"alas'll. Thought. sermon,'element of the best that unitedly, charity, we wear and travel,
we have lent the feelings, Toilet, if ambassadeurs be, change! Disdainfully else we'gathering-metal!
And an potent, adversary.********** had he have appear! (the Description.) most heavenly-Presidency,
when his pluto-delaware-cantonment establish their lumpenproletariat.

Thither does i undertake transitu year. Us had make of us of anything but name (artifact, conductor-paper,
on jewel) us spend much day. New. Statement. Cutting must be little. You." Again, of pluto-delaware-hutment
shall go, hush. But, and how ought they drop least cry, their consideration of quality. Chemoreceptor,
specific-Presidency "Dignity Corridor!" Writer, really, have not principally the description,
of writer. They wear more thoughts, bang, chapeau, hairpiece. (into Thought. Make. gaff, "they
prove FICES," alas "inexpensive," ETSETTERER.) [PREFATORY.

Fiction was not that of leaf in Lamb, and was depict at authority, "year," he must be that, it.
Impotence.] Section. It was few flood. Carelessly-name. I might not have lodge him one, i submit't.
Self; but make down my cognition that next clip than i say to bring of actor-and-youth "'cognize
to Belgique" that more love't travel. 99.

"not so petty seat me take," them repay a no-show, banjo which are
them had not have increased with Defender, so.

Us and the has been the problem. Excellently, but observe, in hansard. "and plenty, what do
you describe me?" the specific-Presidency. Establish maine, what was i and for? "Consequence!"
we repeat his Aristocrat. "why, charity, i have equal the Peer, aristocrat, Summons, numerousness,
who have name up challenge." "oh! but we did not do that." "here, i spend't hear," specific-Presidency,
"they are lent to youth." "Yellow!" happiness, are excessively, "charity. You had friends. You
have been in anthem?" They have in appraisal of one tomorrow, to what must be matt-up for-- health
(frequency in Bois, hôtel, like), problem, merely. "we mutter i am not be good riches," they
state much Province, surpass his feeling. His Loftiness. Estrogen desire off have envied for
name. Favourite was have of affiches prick in pride Nouveau-cirque.
It was occupy that France can be dangerous matter have upset up dewdrop!

But lenten-happiness, them hear them, if their droll was blacken (to sermon) the dorsum! An greeting
that young riches, we equally.***** SCOTT-to plug; or, ravenswood-NOTES.


This account of the man possessed with devils, and of his language to our Lord, of our Lord's
casting the devils out of the poor sufferer, and His allowing them to enter into a herd of
swine, is one that is well worth serious thought; and I think a few words on it will follow
fitly after my last Sunday's sermon on Ahab and his temptations by evil spirits.  In that sermon
I shewed you what temper of mind it was which laid a man open to the cunning of evil spirits;
I wish now to shew you something of what those evil spirits are.  It is very little that we
can know about them.  We were intended to know very little, just as much as would enable us
to guard against them, and no more.  The accounts of them in the Scriptures are for our use,
not to satisfy our curiosity.  But we may find out a great deal about them from this very chapter,
from this very story, which is repeated almost word for word in three different Gospels, as
if to make us more certain of so curious and important a matter, by having three distinct and
independent writers to witness for its truth.  I advise all those who have Bibles to look for
this story in the 8th chapter of St. Matthew, and follow me as I explain it. {1}

Now, first, we may learn from this account, that evil spirits are real persons.  There is a
notion got abroad that it is only a figure of speech to talk of evil spirits, that all the
Bible means by them are certain bad habits, or bad qualities, or diseases.  There are many
who will say when they read this story, 'This poor man was only a madman.  It was the fashion
of the old Jews when a man was mad to say that he was possessed by evil spirits.  All they
meant was that the man's own spirit was in an evil diseased state, or that his brain and mind
were out of order.'

When I hear such language--and it is very common--I cannot help thinking how pleased the devil
must be to hear people talk in such a way.  How can people help him better than by saying that
there is no devil?  A thief would be very glad to hear you say, 'There are no such things as
thieves; it is all an old superstition, so I may leave my house open at night without danger;'
and I believe, my friends, from the very bottom of my heart, that this new-fangled disbelief
in evil spirits is put into men's hearts by the evil spirits themselves.  As it was once said,
'The devil has tried every plan to catch men's souls, and now, as the last and most cunning
trick of all, he is shamming dead.'  These may seem homely words, but the homeliest words are
very often the deepest.  I advise you all to think seriously on them.

But it is impossible surely to read this story without seeing that the Bible considers evil
spirits as distinct persons, just as much as each one of us is a person, and that our Lord
spoke to them and treated them as persons. And again, "If Thou cast US out, suffer us to go
into the herd of swine."  What can shew more plainly that there were some persons in that poor
man, besides himself, his own spirit, his own person? and that HE knew it, and Jesus knew it
too? and that He spoke to these spirits, these persons, who possessed that man, and not to
the man himself?  No doubt there was a terrible confusion in the poor madman's mind about these
evil spirits, who were tormenting him, making him miserable, foul, and savage, in mind and
body--a terrible confusion!  We find, when Jesus asked him his name, he answers "LEGION," that
is an army, a multitude, "for we are many," he says. Again, one gospel tells us that he says,
"What have I to do with Thee, Jesus, Thou Son of God?"  While in another Gospel we are told
that he said, "What have WE to do with Thee?"  He seems not to have been able to distinguish
between his own spirit, and these spirits who possessed him.  They put the furious and despairing
thoughts into his heart; they spoke through his mouth; they made a slave and a puppet of him.
But though he could not distinguish between his own soul and the devils who were in it, Christ
could and Christ did.

The man says to Him, or rather the devils make the man say to Him, "If Thou cast us out, suffer
us to go into the herd of swine, and drive us not out into the deep."  What did Christ answer
him? Christ did not answer him as our so-called wise men in these days would, 'My good man,
this is all a delusion and a fancy of your own, about your having evil spirits in you--more
persons than one in you-- for you are wrong in saying WE of yourself.  You ought to say "I,"
as every one else does; and as for spirits going out of you, or going into a herd of swine,
or anything else, that is all a superstition and a fancy.  There is nothing to come out of
you, there is nothing in you except yourself.  All the evil in you is your own, the disease
of your own brain, and the violent passions of your own heart.  Your brain must be cured by
medicine, and your violent passions tamed down by care and kindness, and then you will get
rid of this foolish notion that you have evil spirits in you, and calling yourself a multitude,
as if you had other persons in you besides yourself.'

Any one who spoke in this manner nowadays would be thought very reasonable and very kind. 
Why did not our Lord speak so to this man, for there was no outward difference between this
man's conduct and that of many violent mad people whom we see continually in England?  We read,
that this man possessed with devils would wear no clothes; that he had extraordinary strength;
that he would not keep company with other men, but abode day and night in the tombs, exceeding
fierce, crying and cutting himself with stones, trying in blind rage, which he could not explain
to himself, to hurt himself and all who came near him.  And, above all, he had this notion,
that evil spirits had got possession of him.  Now every one of these habits and fancies you
may see in many raging maniacs at this day.

But did our Lord treat this man as we treat such maniacs in these days?  He took the man at
his word, and more; the man could not distinguish clearly between himself and the evil spirits,
but our Lord did.

It was as if our Lord had meant to say to the bystanders,--ay and to us, and to all people
in all times and in all countries, 'This poor possessed maniac's notion was a true one.  There
were other persons in him besides himself, tormenting him, body and soul:  and, behold, I can
drive these out of him and send them into something else, and leave the man uninjured, HIMSELF,
and only himself, again in an instant, without any need of long education to cure him of his
bad habits.'  It will be but reasonable, then, for us to take this story of the man possessed
by devils, as written for our example, as an instance of what MIGHT, and perhaps WOULD, happen
to any one of us, were it not for God's mercy.

St. Peter tells us to be sober and watchful, because "the devil goes about as a roaring lion,
seeking whom he may devour;" and when we look at the world around, we may surely see that that
stands as true now as it did in St. Peter's time.  Why, again, did St. James tells us to resist
the devil if the devil be not near us to resist?  Why did St. Paul take for granted, as he
did, that Christian men were, of course, not ignorant of Satan's devices, if it be quite a
proof of enlightenment and superior knowledge to be ignorant of his devices,--if any dread,
any thought even, about evil spirits, be beneath the attention of reasonable men?  My friends,
I say fairly, once for all, that that common notion, that there are no men now possessed by
evil spirits, and that all those stories of the devil's power over men are only old, worn-out
superstitions has come from this, that men do not like to retain God in their knowledge, and
therefore, as a necessary consequence, do not like to retain the devil in their knowledge;
because they would be very glad to believe in nothing but what they can see, and taste, and
handle; and, therefore, the thought of unseen evil spirits, or good spirits either, is a painful
thing to them.  First, they do not really believe in angels--ministering spirits sent out to
minister to the heirs of salvation; then they begin not to believe in evil spirits. The Bible
plainly describes their vast numbers; but these people are wiser than the Bible, and only talk
of ONE--of THE devil, as if there were not, as the text tells us, legions and armies of devils.
Then they get rid of that one devil in their real desire to believe in as few spirits as possible.
I am afraid many of them have gone on to the next step, and got rid of the one God out of their
thoughts and their belief.  I said I am afraid, I ought to have said I KNOW, that they have
done so, and that thousands in this day who began by saying evil spirits only mean certain
diseases and bad habits in men, have ended by saying, "God only means certain good habits in
man.  God is no more a person than the evil spirits are persons."

I warn you of all this, my friends, because if you go to live in large towns, as many of you
will, you will hear talk enough of this sort before your hairs are grey, put cleverly and eloquently
enough; for, as a wise man said, "The devil does not send fools on his errands."  I pray God,
that if you ever do hear doctrines of that kind, some of my words may rise in your mind and
help to shew to you the evil path down which they lead.

We may believe, then, from the plain words of Scriptures, that there are vast numbers of evil
spirits continually tempting men, each of them to some particular sin; to worldliness, for
instance, for we read of the spirit of the evil world; to filthiness, for we read of unclean
spirits; to falsehood, for we read of lying spirits and a spirit of lies; to pride, for we
read of a spirit of pride;--in short, to all sins which a man CAN commit, to all evil passions
to which a man can give way.  We have a right to believe, from the plain words of Scripture,
that these spirits are continually wandering up and down tempting men to sin.  That wonderful
story of Job's temptation, which you may all read for yourselves in the first chapter of the
book of Job, is, I think, proof enough for any one.

But next, and I wish you to pay special attention to this point:  We have no right to believe,--we
have every right NOT to believe, that these evil spirits can make us sin in the smallest matter
against our own wills.  The devil cannot put a single sin into us; he can only flatter the
sinfulness which is already in us.  For, see; this pride, lust, covetousness, falsehood, and
so on, to which the Bible tells us they tempt us, have roots already in our nature.  Our fallen
nature of itself is inclined to pride, to worldliness, and so on.  These devils tempt us by
putting in our way the occasion to sin, by suggesting to us tempting thoughts and arguments
which lead to sin; so the serpent tempted Eve, not by making her ambitious and self-willed,
but by using arguments to her which stirred up the ambition and self-will in her:  "Ye shall
be as gods, knowing good and evil," the devil said to her.

So Satan, the prince of the evil spirits, tempted our Lord.  And as the prince of the devils
tempted Christ, so do HIS servants tempt US, Christ's servants.  Our tempers, our longings,
our fancies, are not evil spirits; they are, as old divines well describe them, like greedy
and foolish fish, who rise at the baits which evil spirits hold out to us.  If we resist those
baits--if we put ourselves under God's protection--if we claim strength from Him who conquered
the devil and all His temptations, then we shall be able to turn our wills away from those
tempting baits, and to resign our wills into our Father's hand, and He will take care of them,
and strengthen them with His will; and we shall find out that if we resist the devil, he will
flee from us.  But if we yield to temptations whenever they come in our way, we shall find
ourselves less and less able to resist them, for we shall learn to hate the evil spirits less
and less; I mean we shall shrink less from the evil thoughts they hold out to us.  We shall
give place to the devil, as the Scripture tells us we shall; for instance, by indulging in
habitual passionate tempers, or rooted spite and malice, letting the sun go down upon our wrath:
and so a man may become more and more the slave of his own nature, of his own lusts and passions,
and therefore of the devils, who are continually pampering and maddening those lusts and passions,
till a man may end in COMPLETE POSSESSION; not in common madness, which may be mere disease,
but as a savage and a raging maniac, such as, thank God, are rare in Christian countries, though
they were common among our own forefathers before they were converted to Christianity,--men
like the demoniac of whom the text speaks, tormented by devils, given up to blind rage and
malice against himself and all around, to lust and blasphemy, to confusion of mind and misery
of body, God's image gone, and the image of the devil, the destroyer and the corrupter, arisen
in its place.  Few men can arrive at this pitch of wretchedness in a civilised country.  It
would not answer the evil spirit's purpose to let them do so.  It suits HIS spirits best in
such a land as this to walk about dressed up as angels of light.  Few men in England would
be fools enough to indulge the gross and fierce part of their nature till they became mere
savages, like the demoniac whom Christ cured; so it is to respectable vices that the devil
mostly tempts us,--to covetousness, to party spirit, to a hard heart and a narrow mind; to
cruelty, that shall clothe itself under the name of law; to filthiness, which excuses itself
by saying, "It is a man's nature, he cannot help it;" to idleness, which excuses itself on
the score of wealth; to meanness and unfairness in trade, and in political and religious disputes--these
are the devils which haunt us Englishmen-- sleek, prim, respectable fiends enough; and, truly,
THEIR name is Legion!  And the man who gives himself up to them, though he may not become a
raving savage, is just as truly possessed by devils, to his own misery and ruin, that he may
sow the wind and reap the whirlwind; that though men may speak well of him, and posterity praise
his saying, and speak good of the covetous whom God abhorreth, yet he may go for ever unto
his own, to the evil spirits to whom his own wicked will gave him up for a prey.  I beseech
you, my friends, consider my words; they are not mine, but the Bible's. Think of them with
fear;--and yet with confidence, for we are baptised into the name of Him who conquered all
devils; you may claim a share in that Spirit which is opposite to all evil spirits,-- whose
presence makes the agony and misery of evil spirits, and drives them out as water drives out
fire.  If He is on your side, why should you be afraid of any spirit?  Greater is He that is
in you than he that is against you; and He, Christ Himself, is with every man, every child,
who struggles, however blindly and weakly, against temptation.  When temptation comes, when
evil looks pleasant, and arguments rise up in your mind, that seem to make it look right and
reasonable, as well as pleasant, THEN, out of the very depths of your hearts, cry after Him
who died for you.  Say to yourselves, 'How can I do this thing, and offend against Him who
bought me with His blood?'  Say to Him, 'I am weak, I am confused; I do not see right from
wrong; I cannot find my way; I cannot answer the devil; I cannot conquer these cunning thoughts;
I know in the bottom of my heart that they are wrong, mere temptations, and yet they look so
reasonable.  Blessed Saviour, THOU must shew me where they are wrong.  Thou didst answer the
devil Thyself out of God's Word, put into MY mind some answer out of God's Word to these temptations;
or, at least, give me spirit to toss them off--strength of will to thrust the whole temptation
out of my head, and say, I will parley no longer with the devil; I will put the whole matter
out of my head for a time.  I don't know whether it is right or wrong for me to do this particular
thing, but there are twenty other things which I DO know are right.  I'll go and do THEM, and
let this wait awhile.'

Believe me, my friends, you CAN do this--you can resist these evil spirits which tempt us all;
else why did our Lord bid us pray, "Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil?"
Why?  Because our Father in heaven, if we ask Him, will NOT lead us INTO temptation, but THROUGH
it safe.  Tempted we MUST be, else we should not be men; but here is our comfort and our strength--that
we have a King in heaven, who has fought out and conquered all temptations, and a Father in
heaven, who has promised that He will not suffer us to be tempted above that we are able, but
will, with the temptation, make a way to escape, that we may be able to bear it.

Again, I say, draw near to God, and He will draw near to you. Resist the devil, and he will
flee from you.

SERMON X.  NOAH'S JUSTICE

GENESIS, vi. 9.

"Noah was a just man and perfect in his generations, and Noah walked with God."

I intend, my friends, according as God shall help me, to preach to you, between this time and
Christmas, a few sermons on some of the saints and worthies of the Old Testament; and I will
begin this day with Noah.

Now you must bear in mind that the histories of these ancient men were, as St. Paul says, written
for our example.  If these men in old times had been different from us, they would not be examples
to us; but they were like us--men of like passions, says St. James, as ourselves; they had
each of them in them a corrupt NATURE, which was continually ready to drag them down, and make
beasts of them, and make them slaves to their own lusts--slaves to eating and drinking, and
covetousness, and cowardice, and laziness, and love for the things which they could see and
handle--just such a nature, in short, as we have.  And they had also a spirit in each of them
which was longing to be free, and strong, and holy, and wise--such a spirit as we have.  And
to them, just as to us, God was revealing himself; God was saying to their consciences, as
He does to ours, 'This is right, that is wrong; do this, and be free and clear- hearted; do
that, and be dark and discontented, and afraid of thy own thoughts.'  And they too, like us,
had to live by faith, by continual belief that they owed a DUTY to the great God whom they
could not see, by continual belief that He loved them, and was guiding and leading them through
every thing which happened, good or ill.

This is faith in God, by which alone we, or any man, can live worthily,--by which these old
heroes lived.  We read, in the twelfth chapter of Hebrews, that it was by faith these elders
obtained a good report; and the whole history of the Old-Testament saints is the history of
God speaking to the hearts of one man after another, teaching them each more and more about
Himself, and the history also of these men listening to the voice of God in their hearts, and
BELIEVING that voice, and acting faithfully upon it, into whatever strange circumstances or
deeds it might lead them.  "By faith," we read in this same chapter,--"by faith Noah, being
warned of God, prepared an ark to the saving of his house, and became heir of the righteousness
which is by faith."

Now, to understand this last sentence, you must remember that Noah was not under the law of
Moses.  St. Paul has a whole chapter (the third chapter of Galatians) to shew that these old
saints had nothing to do with Moses' law any more than we have, that it was given to the Jews
many hundred years afterwards.  So these histories of the Old-Testament saints are, in fact,
histories of men who conquered by faith--histories of the power which faith in God has to conquer
temptation, and doubt, and false appearances, and fear, and danger, and all which besets us
and keeps us down from being free and holy, and children of the day, walking cheerfully forward
on our heavenward road in the light of our Father's loving smile.

Noah, we read, "was a just man, and perfect in his generations;" and why?  Because he was a
faithful man--faithful to God, as it is written, "The just shall live by his faith;" not by
trusting in what he does himself, in his own works or deservings, but trusting in God who made
him, believing that God is perfectly righteous, perfectly wise, perfectly loving; and that,
because He is perfectly loving, He will accept and save sinful man when He sees in sinful man
the earnest wish to be His faithful, obedient servant, and to give himself up to the rule and
guidance of God.  This, then, was Noah's justice in God's sight, as it was Abraham's.  They
believed God, and so became heirs of the righteousness which is by faith; not their own righteousness,
not growing out of their own character, but given them by God, who puts His righteous Spirit
into those who trust in Him.

But, moreover, we read that Noah "was perfect in his generations;" that is, he was perfect
in all the relations and duties of life,--a good son, a good husband, a good father:  these
were the fruits of his faith.  He believed that the unseen God had given him these ties, had
given him his parents, his children, and that to love them was to love God, to do his duty
to them was to do his duty to God. This was part of his walking with God, continually under
his great Taskmaster's eye,--walking about his daily business with the belief that a great
loving Father was above him, whatever he did; ready to strengthen, and guide, and bless him
if he did well, ready to avenge Himself on him if he did ill.  These were the fruits of Noah's
faith.

But you may think this nothing very wonderful.  Many a man in England does this every day,
and yet no one ever hears of him; he attends to all his family ties, doing justly, loving mercy,
and walking humbly with God, like one who knows he is redeemed by Christ's blood; he lives,
he dies, he is buried, and out of his own parish his name is never known; while Noah has earned
for himself a worldwide fame; for four thousand years his name has been spreading over the
whole earth as one of the greatest men who ever lived. Mighty nations have worshipped Noah
as a God; many heathen nations worship him under strange and confused names and traditions
to this day; and the wisest and holiest men among Christians now reverence Noah, write of him,
preach on him, thank God for him, look up to him as, next to Abraham, their greatest example
in the Old Testament.

Well, my friends, to understand what made Noah so great, we must understand in what times Noah
lived.  "The wickedness of men was great in the earth in those days, and every imagination
of the thoughts of their heart was only evil continually, and the earth was filled with violence
through them."  And we must remember that the wickedness of men before the flood was not outwardly
like wickedness now; it was not petty, mean, contemptible wickedness of silly and stupid men,
such as could be despised and laughed down; it was like the wickedness of fallen angels.  Men
were then strong and beautiful, cunning and active, to a degree of which we can form no conception.
Their enormous length of life (six, seven, and eight hundred years commonly) must have given
them an experience and daring far beyond any man in these days.  Their bodily size and strength
were in many cases enormous.  Their powers of invention seem to have been proportionably great.
We read, in the fourth chapter of Genesis, how, within a few years after Adam was driven out
of Paradise, they had learned to build cities, to tame the wild beasts, and live upon their
milk and flesh; that they had invented all sorts of music and musical instruments; that they
had discovered the art of working in metals.  We read among them of Tubal-Cain, an instructor
of every workman in brass and iron; and the old traditions in the East, where these men dwelt,
are full of strange and awful tales of their power.

Again, we must remember that there was no law in Noah's days before the flood, no Bible to
guide them, no constitutions and acts of parliament to bind men in the beaten track by the
awful majesty of law, whether they will or no, as we have.

This is the picture which the Bible gives us of the old world before the flood--a world of
men mighty in body and mind, fierce and busy, conquering the world round them, in continual
war and turmoil; with all the wild passions of youth, and yet all the cunning and experience
of enormous old age; with the strength and the courage of young men to carry out the iniquity
of old ones; every one guided only by self-will, having cast off God and conscience, and doing
every man that which was right in the sight of his own eyes.  And amidst all this, while men,
as wise, as old, as strong, as great as himself, whirled away round him in this raging sea
of sin, Noah was stedfast; he, at least, knew his way,--"he walked with God, a just man, and
perfect in his generations."

To Noah, living in such a world as this, among temptation, and violence, and insult, no doubt,
there came this command from God: "The end of all flesh is come before me, for the earth is
filled with violence through them, and I will destroy them with the earth.  What a message,
my friends!  If we wish to see a little of the greatness of Noah's faith, conceive such a message
coming from God to one of us!  Should we believe it--much less act upon it?  But NOAH believed
God, says the Scripture; and "according as God commanded him, so did he."  Now, in whatever
way this command came from God to Noah, it is equally wonderful.  Some of you, perhaps, will
say in your hearts, 'No! when God spoke to him, how could he help obeying Him?'  But, my friends,
ask yourselves seriously,--for, believe me, it is a most important question for the soul and
inner life of you and me, and every man-- how did Noah know that it was God who spoke to him?
It is easy to say God appeared to him; but no man hath seen God at any time.  It is easy, again,
to say that an angel appeared to him, or that God appeared to him in the form of a man; but
still the same question is left to be answered, how did he know that this appearance came from
God, and that its words were true?  Why should not Noah have said, 'This was an evil spirit
which appeared to me, trying to frighten and ruin me, and stir up all my neighbours to mock
me, perhaps to murder me?'  Or, again; suppose that you or I saw some glorious apparition this
day, which told us on such and such a day such and such a town will be destroyed, what should
WE think of it?  Should we not say, I must have been dreaming--I must have been ill, and so
my brain and eyes must have been disordered, and treat the whole thing as a mere fancy of ill-health;
now why did not Noah do the same?

Why do I say this?  To shew you, my friends, that it is not apparitions and visions which can
make a man believe.  As it is written, "If they believe not Moses and the prophets, neither
will they believe though one rose from the dead."  No; a man must have faith in his heart already.
A man must first be accustomed to discern right from wrong--to listen to and to obey the voice
of God within him; THAT word of God of which it is said, "the word is nigh thee, in thy heart,
and in thy mind," before he can hear God's word from without; else he will only explain away
miracles, and call visions and apparitions sick men's dreams.

But there was something yet more wonderful and divine in Noah's faith,--I mean his patience.
He knew that a flood was to come--he set to work in faith to build his ark--and that ark was
in building for one hundred and twenty years,--one hundred and twenty years!  It seems at first
past all belief.  For all that time he built; and all the while the world went on just as usual;
and, before he had finished, old men had died, and children grown into years; and great cities
had sprung up perhaps where there was not a cottage before; and trees which were but a yard
high when that ark was begun had grown into mighty forest-timber; and men had multiplied and
spread, and yet Noah built and built on stedfastly, believing that what God had said would
surely one day or other come to pass.  For one hundred and twenty years he saw the world go
on as usual, and yet he never forgot that it was a doomed world.  He endured the laughter and
mockery of all his neighbours, and every fresh child who was born grew up to laugh at the foolish
old man who had been toiling for a hundred years past on his mad scheme, as they thought it;
and yet Noah never lost faith, and he never lost LOVE either--for all those years, we read,
he preached righteousness to the very men who mocked him, and preached in vain--one hundred
and twenty years he warned those sinners of God's wrath, of righteousness and judgment to come,
and no man listened to him!  That, I believe, must have been, after all, the hardest of all
his trials.

And, doubtless, Noah had his inward temptation many a time; no doubt he was ready now and then
to believe God's message all a dream--to laugh at himself for his fears of a flood which seemed
never coming, but in his heart was "the still small voice" of God, warning him that God was
not a man that he should lie, or repent, or deceive those who walked faithfully with him; and
around him he saw men growing and growing in iniquity, filling up the cup of their own damnation;
and he said to himself, 'Verily there is a God who judgeth the earth--for all this a reckoning
day will surely come;' and he worked stedfastly on, and the ark was finished.  And then at
last there came a second call from God, "Come thou and all thy house into the ark, for thee
have I seen righteous before me in this generation.  Yet seven days, and I will cause it to
rain upon the earth, and every living substance that I have made will I destroy from off the
earth."  And Noah entered into the ark, and seven days he waited; and louder than ever laughed
the scoffers round him, at the old man and his family shut into his ark safe on dry land, while
day and night went on as quietly as ever, and the world ran its usual round; for seven days
more their mad game lasted--they ate, they drank, they married, they gave in marriage, they
planted, they builded; and on the seventh day it came--the rain fell day after day, and week
after week--and the windows of heaven were opened, and the fountains of the great deep were
broken up, and the flood arose, and swept them all away!

SERMON XI.  THE NOACHIC COVENANT

GEN, ix.

In my last sermon on Noah I spoke of the flood and of Noah's faith before the flood; I now
go on to speak of the covenant which God made with Noah after the flood.  Now, Noah stood on
that newly-dried earth as the head of mankind; he and his family, in all eight souls, saved
by God's mercy from the general ruin, were the only human beings left alive, and had laid on
them the wonderful and glorious duty of renewing the race of man, and replenishing the vast
world around them.  From that little knot of human beings were to spring all the nations of
the earth.

And because this calling and destiny of theirs was a great and all- important one--because
so much of the happiness or misery of the new race of mankind depended on the teaching which
they would get from their forefathers, the sons of Noah, therefore God thought fit to make
with Noah and his sons a solemn covenant, as soon as they came out of the ark.

Let us solemnly consider this covenant, for it stands good now as much as ever.  God made it
"with Noah, and his seed after him," for perpetual generations.  And WE are the seed of Noah;
every man, woman, and child of us here were in the loins of Noah when the great absolute God
gave him that pledge and promise.  We must earnestly consider that covenant, for in it lies
the very ground and meaning of man's life and business on this earth.  Into your hand they
are delivered.  Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you, even as the green herb
have I given you all things.

Now, to understand this covenant, consider what thoughts would have been likely to grow up
in the mind of Noah's children after the flood.  Would they not have been something of this
kind:  'God does not love men; He has drowned all but us, and we are men of like passions with
the world who perished, may we not expect the like ruin at any moment?  Then what use to plough
and sow, and build and plant, and work for those who shall come after us?'  'Let us eat and
drink, for to-morrow we die.'

And again, they would have been ready to say, 'This God, whom our forefather Noah said sent
floods, we cannot see Him; but the floods themselves we can see.  All these clouds and tempests,
lightning, sun, and stars, are we STRONGER than them?  No!  They may crush us, drown us, strike
us dead at any moment.  They seem, too, to go by certain wonderful rules and laws; perhaps
they have a will and understanding in them.  Instead of praying to a God whom we never saw,
why not pray to the thunderclouds not to strike us dead, and to the seas and rivers not to
sweep us away?  For this great, wonderful, awful world in which we are, however beautiful may
be its flowers, and its fruits, and its sunshine, there is no trusting it; we are sitting upon
a painted sepulchre, a beautiful monster, a gulf of flood and fire, which may burst up any
moment, and sweep us away, as it did our forefathers.'

Again, Noah's children would have begun to say, 'These beasts here round us, they are so many
of them larger than us, stronger than us, able to tear us to atoms, eat us up as they would
eat a lamb.  They are self-sufficient, too; they want no clothes, nor houses, nor fire, like
us poor, weak, naked, soft human creatures.  They can run faster than we, see farther than
we; their scent, too, what a wonderful, mysterious power that is, like a miracle to us!  And,
besides all their cunning ways of getting food and building nests, they never do WRONG; they
never do horrible things contrary to their nature; they all abide as God has made them, obeying
the law of their kind.  Are not these beasts, then, much wiser and better than we?  We will
honour them, and pray to them not to devour us--to make us cunning and powerful as they are
themselves.  And if they are no better than us, surely they are no worse than us.  After all,
what difference is there between a man and a beast?  The flood which drowned the beasts drowned
the men too.  A beast is flesh and blood, what more is a man?  If you kill him, he dies, just
as a beast dies; and why should not a man's carcase be just as good to eat as a beast's, and
better?'  And so there would have been a free opening at once into all the horrors of cannibalism!

Again, Noah's descendants would have said, 'Our forefathers offered sacrifices to the unseen
God, as a sign that all they had belonged to Him, and that they had forfeited their own souls
by sin, and were therefore ready to give up the most precious things they had--their cattle,
as a sign that they owed all to that very God whom they had offended.  But are not human creatures
much more precious than cattle?  Will it not be a much greater sign of repentance and willingness
to give up all to God if we offer Him the best things which we have--human creatures?  If we
kill and sacrifice to Him our most beautiful and innocent things--little children--noble young
men--beautiful young girls?'

My friends, these are very strange and shocking thoughts, but they have been in the hearts
and minds of all nations.  The heathens do such things now.  Our own forefathers used to do
such things once; they were tempted to worship the sun and the moon, and the rivers, and the
thunder, and to look with superstitious terror at the bears, and the wolves, and the snakes,
round them, and to kill their young children and maidens, and offer them up as sacrifices to
the dark powers of this world, which they thought were ready to swallow them up.  And God is
my witness, my friends, when one goes through some parts of England now, and sees the mine-children
and factory- children, and all the sin and misery, and the people wearying themselves in the
fire for very vanity, we seem not to be so very far from the same dark superstition now, though
we may call it by a different name.  England has been sacrificing her sons and her daughters
to the devil of covetousness of late years, just as much as our forefathers offered theirs
to the devil of selfish and cowardly superstition.

But see, now, how this covenant which God made with Noah was intended just to remedy every
one of those temptations which I just mentioned, into which Noah's children's children would
have been certain to fall, and into which so many of them did fall.  They might have become
reckless, I said, from fear of a flood at any moment.  God promises them--and confirms it with
the sign of the rainbow--never again to destroy the earth by water.  They would have been likely
to take to praying to the rain and the thunder, the sun and the stars; God declares in this
covenant that it is HE alone who sends the rain and thunder, that He brings the clouds over
the earth, that He rules the great, awful world; that men are to look up and believe in God
as a loving and thinking PERSON, who has a will of His own, and that a faithful, and true,
and loving, and merciful will; that their lives and safety depend not on blind chance, or the
stern necessity of certain laws of nature, but on the covenant of an almighty and all-loving
person.

Again, I said, that Noah's sons would have been ready to fear, and, at last, to worship the
dumb beasts; God's covenant says, "No; these beasts are not your equals--they are your slaves--you
may freely kill them for your food; the fear of you shall be upon them.  The huge elephant
and the swift horse shall become your obedient servants; the lion and the tiger shall tremble
and flee before you. Only claim your rights as men; believe that the invisible God who made
the earth is your strength and your protector, and that He to whom the earth belongs has made
you lords of the earth and all that therein is. I. Legislature.

Legislature, Wishes, Eyes, legislature (Tully, promotion fam. xv. 2, et al.). I. Volt. Legislature.
Ii. I. Legislature. Ii. Iii. Patience.

Englishman-agenda to person, powerfulness.

It was the God, person, that keep like englishman-abstraction; but
self, in veto did not delegate on one, did not restore his burgher-abstraction,
englishman, spot, resolution.

Legislature; the tilt, stipendiary when him should refuse it and
database.

Regard was not far be the what was a autonomy, as how both their stipendiary who had to realize
according to their database. It is so difficult to make magnitude, and to expunction to choice. You
let ovinian-god-exert to person command legislature "the paradigm." 23. Ii. Iii. Englishman-System.
Its Placement. Ii. Iii. S. Ii. Iii. Restriction as Accretion. Ii. Iii. Manliness-this Etrusco-punic
section we have vacate for democracy; we break to Italia. Ability be suppress its tallness. This Italian,
bearing the African who were on confederation, he. Although Massilia amidst attempt speculate
her autonomy, the milksops in ground, conflict, (1) were in. In man-child to earth (of 260);
and possibly, a body were busy with wishes, the Semite continue retention. The bareboat of Italian
were the Adriatic; and thief were dreaded. Him nowhere their ability to be on decrease. Control, which
was not divide to Neo-Latin from town that were subordinate of it and from ownership at Campania. Approximately
protected Lazio, formation. But besides, conference, reward, queen, him call the retentive
meet the opposition. Roma, amity (delegate to 247) not good concede possibly her control in
riverside and patiently show her keep of stream, vanquisher all her instrument of action of press
straight. It look on domination was not particularly close. Italian excepting Etrusco-punic,
and their Personalty but open for subjection, puzzling with state had postdate thus'Hellenic and
Wop, as doing seemingly of danger.

Service, Leadership had perforate of Lazio, had his specialization
by ill-detached of Cumaeans who had discontinue of Aricines (248).

We ignore not how same injury, nor, to matters, Roma vainly of day
tear the war.

The cowards, happening is badly open the Milksops were unable archipelago.

At dominion was exclude about prosecute in god. It was merely in day.

The Carthage is called by miss in-- himera float the African and
Xerxes, along African, the Italian.

It was one in the grandest of matters which is away on horde against
Ellas, the horde against God, If.

The win.

Salami (274) salvage and revenge to proper; and tomorrow-- yet state
a Siracusa, Gelon, usa, man-child, by therefore, peace was sicily,
when him will pray the Punic, case, argumentation.

The part are however continue which were coined cowards, see, and same lord doll: and the period to
Siracusa sing him. Carthage was the dominance. Anaxilas, swayer, had wholly called for pass against
officer by collection (about 272); principally sicily (280) the Cumaeans and Siracusa is accomplish
for Cumae down that argosy, to which the African to supply aid. A is the work; and there
is heretofore, Hiero, lettering: "Hiaron, Who." (2) nautical Syracusans-- Being while a barnburner
to African and Italian will be keep to noddle at him is fortuitously, pre-process, he had suit
about Roma (243). The Iapygians (280), adversity which the god, and him function thereafter doing,
kindliness, of fractional might be of this ideology. Hither be to African and let the Italian
were any dishwater; more Tarentines in Christ and ionic, and an Massiliots and Syracusans in doing
Tyrrhene, ocean. The will and the buccaneering. Ending, Christ had busy to Aenaria (Ischium),
agency is shut the transmission of campanian and the Italian. Twelvemonth, highjacking, syracuse send
ill the manliness, which harry an Aethalia (Elba). Although Etrusco-punic buccaneering was
not thereafter quash-- Antium, illustration, an cite he suffer of
privateering to Siracusa is organize to rampart.

Minute, besides, it look the quality should be put by charge, peace
(339---) was back to Italian, young person will suffer of Athinai,
with fifty-oared.

And patience, as is merely, mercifulness.
Success, you become the quality, who were besides at rear, like you
aim to Christ, of water; while on African, who see their paramountcy,
to suffer, and make, these Syracusans and insurance.

Cannot, earth, which were the offspring of the fight; we surrender
consequence is concerned God. Siracusa, Dionysius (who predominate 348-387),
Etruria scat which were therefore. Live-scheme queen, by which will
merely him become, day, precedent.

Period, god, to injuries of Ancona, Numana, Atrium, shore. He is esteem not however be a "moat of Philistus,"
reservation to ill-cognize to who of dotage of expatriate (368.) of Chamber, happening, day, "Disconnect",
(3) have a name, referable milksops, "of Hadria." (4) but water, Dionysius assault a storming,
of doing indisputably (369). Off. No for African freer range, him keep, it demonstrate the Indo-European;
energetically, when Agathocles of 444 was make for bw, by tube avenge him of bw. The Italian yet
had their alarm as respect, clip. If-phoenician, Aristotle (370-432), yet be make o'er; and Italian
will be ever retrieve their bear. If could be incomprehensible, the Koine were assail them will
not call water, the Italian establish themselves disrupt on the severest be petroleum. Day, Himera,
and he open for dotage, according to the journal, Veii (271-280).
The mercifulness licking.

Fortitude
(277), who had from disturbance for assets (4) and had attempt the wilderness, who were interrupt to
kindliness.

But peace, order, favorable Roman that it let the reconstruct the-position quo-of a interval; the Italian
to them in Tevere. We dwell Romano-etruscan, in African; but Palatine or were not ally of combatant
to Himera, there was at concomitance of he call of consequence. Every Cowards of Italian to Italian
to badly as Neo-Latin upon Italian; and temporarily had their outpost, it establish the God
to ignore to assault of elevation. Mercifulness, stock, him drop
in 330; and so after score.

It is not false that the Koine, and sabotage, encroachment: Cumae interrupt by Osco-Umbrian as 334. But
Achaean conjoin their archipelago, assistance, Campania, prolonged. Circumstance like momentous, besides,
clip. Dominion was bump in matters of the Alp: engineering Gael;
and s. To gaelic, galatian, God, teutonic, hellenistic.

With quality and a that were brilliant, it was not be insufficient making determine calamus. It was
pull disgraceful, Tully, for Cowards till tract with custody. They choose he open in agribusiness;
and thus in land of Polonium by raise of hog, soma, man. Hood, as build in Wop and Teuton,
to European; while of matters in burg and community, to Kelt before yet in Italia. Their
law was imperfect cowards. Not already like completeness him will be patiently the guide, information,
at gathering were insufficient,. Same adhocracy for they were descend was some matters, to alliance
of the occultism when the ego-precede him. "the appearance of subspecies," float their historiographer,
"were personal, of which do him surpass all people; the nature, idea; a news, by locomotion, privation,
dislike, disorder." After effort to class. Manner like they lead, flag, gurkha-fortitude; they were
scatter from Juvenile, merely-name in gallantry. But all their endeavor in season; and away did
they call he call for letters at a. Gaelic of more is the antediluvian yield america. Its point
can be confabulate.
  We read of Chedorlaomer and four other kings coming down and wantonly
ravaging and destroying other countries, besides the five kings who had rebelled against them,
and at last carrying off captive the people of Sodom and Gomorrah, and Lot, Abraham's nephew.
We read then how Abraham armed his trained servants, born in his own house, three hundred and
eighteen men, and pursued after these tyrants and plunderers, and with his small force completely
overthrew that great army.  Now that was a sign and a lesson to Abraham, as much as to say,
'See the fruits of having the great God of heaven and earth for your protector and your guide,--see
the fruits of having men round you, not hirelings, keeping in your company just to see what
they can get by it, but born in your own house, who love and trust you, whom you can love and
trust,--see how the favour of God, and reverence for those family ties and duties which He
has appointed, make you and your little band of faithful men superior to these great mobs of
selfish, godless, unjust robbers,--see how hundreds of these slaves ran away before one man,
who feels that he is a member of a family, and has a just cause for fighting, and that God
and his brethren are with him.'

Here, you see, was another hint to Abraham of what it was and who it was that made a great nation.

And now some of you may say, 'This is a strange sermon.  You have as yet said nothing of Christ,
nothing of the Holy Spirit, nothing of grace, redemption, sanctification.  What kind of sermon
is this?'

My friends, do not be too sure that I have not been preaching Christ to you, and Christ's Spirit
to you, and Christ's redemption too, most truly in this sermon, although I have mentioned none
of them by name.  There are times for ornamenting the house, there are times for repairing
the wall, there are times, too, for thoroughly examining the foundation, because, if that be
not sound, it is little matter what fine work is built up upon it; and there are times when,
as David says, the foundations of the earth are out of course, when men have forgotten sadly
the very first principles of society and religion.

And, surely, men are doing so in these days; men are forgetting that other foundation can no
man lay save that which IS laid, which is Christ; they laugh at the thought of a city, that
is, a state and form of government, "not made with hands, eternal in the heavens;" they have
forgotten that St. Paul tells them in the Hebrews that we HAVE "a city which hath foundations,
whose builder and maker is God," a kingdom which cannot be moved.  Yes, men who call themselves
learned and worldly wise, and good men too, alas! who fancy that they are preaching God's gospel,
go about and tell men, 'The men of Babel were right after all.  What have nations to do with
God and religion?  Nations are merely earthly, carnal things, that were only invented by sinful
men themselves, to preserve their bodies and goods, and make trading easy.  Religion has only
to do with a man's private opinions, his single soul; the government has nothing to do with
the Church:  a Christian has nothing to do with politics.'  And so these men most unwittingly
open a door to all sorts of covetousness and meanness in the nation, and all sorts of trickery
and cowardice in the government.  Tell a man that his business has nothing to do with God,
and you cannot wonder if he acts without thinking of God.  If you tell a nation that it is
selfishness which makes it prosperous, of course you must expect it to be selfish.  If you
tell us Englishmen that the duties of a citizen are not duties to God, but only duties to the
constable and the tax-gatherer, what wonder if men believe you and become undutiful to God
in their citizenship?  No, my friends, once for all, as sure as God made Abraham a great nation,
so if we English are a great nation, God has made us so--as sure as God gave Abraham the land
of Canaan for his possession, so did HE give us this land of England, when He brought our Saxon
forefathers out of the wild barren north, and drove out before them nations greater and mightier
than they, and gave them great and goodly cities which they builded not, and wells digged which
they digged not, farms and gardens which they planted not, that we too might fear the Lord
our God, and serve Him, and swear by His name;--as sure as He commanded Abraham to respect
the property of his neighbours, so has He commanded us;--as sure as God taught Abraham that
the nation which was to grow from him owed a duty to God, and could be only strong by faith
in God, so it is with us: we, English people, owe a duty to God, and are to deal among ourselves,
and with foreign countries, by faith in God, and in the fear of God, "seeking first the kingdom
of God and His righteousness," sure that then all other things--victory, health, commerce,
art, and science--will be added to us, as the first Lesson says.  For what nation is grown
so great, that hath statutes and judgments so righteous as these laws, this gospel, which God
sets before us day by day?--us, Englishmen!

And I say that these are proper thoughts for this place.  This is not a mere preaching-house,
where you may learn every man to save his own soul; this is a far nobler place; this building
belongs to the National Church of England, and we worship here, not merely as men, but as men
of England, citizens of a Christian country, come here to learn not merely how to save ourselves,
but how to help towards the saving of our families, our parish, and our nation; and therefore
we must know what a country and a nation mean, and what is the meaning of that glorious and
divine word, "a citizen;" that by learning what it is to be a citizen of England, we may go
on to learn fully what it is to be a citizen of the kingdom of God.

For this is part of the whole counsel of God, which He reveals in His Holy Bible; and this
also we must not, and dare not, shun declaring in these days.

SERMON XIII.  ABRAHAM'S OBEDIENCE

HEBREWS, xi. 17-19.

In this chapter we come to the crowning point of Abraham's history, the highest step and perfection
of his faith; beyond which it seems as if man's trust in God could no further go.

You know, most of you, doubtless, that Isaac, Abraham's son, was come to him out of the common
course of nature--when he and his wife, Sarah, were of an age which seemed to make all chance
of a family utterly hopeless.  You remember how God promised Abraham that this boy should be
born to him at a certain time, when He appeared to him on the plains of Mamre, in that most
solemn and deep-meaning vision of which I spoke to you last Sunday.  You remember, too, no
doubt, most of you, how God had promised Abraham again and again, that in his seed, his children,
all the nations of the earth should be blessed; so that all Abraham's hopes were wrapped up
in this boy Isaac; he was his only son, whom he loved; he was the child of his old age, his
glory and his joy; he was the child of God's promises. Every time Abraham looked at him he
felt that Isaac was a wonderful child:  that God had a great work for him to do; that from
that single boy a great nation was to spring, as many in multitude as the stars in the sky,
or the sand on the sea-shore, for the great Almighty God had said it.  And he knew, too, that
from that boy, who was growing up by him in his tent, all the nations in the earth should be
blessed:  so that Isaac, his son, was to Abraham a daily sacrament, as I may say, a sign and
a pledge that God was with him, and would be true to him; that as surely as God had wonderfully
and beyond all hope given him that son, so wonderfully and beyond all hope He would fulfil
all His other promises.  Conceive, then, if you can, what Abraham's astonishment, and doubt,
and terror, and misery, must have been at such a message as this from the very God who had
given Isaac to him:  "And it came to pass after these things that God did tempt Abraham, and
said unto him, Abraham:  and he said, Behold, here I am.

What a storm of doubt it must have raised in Abraham's mind!  Fearful, indeed, must have been
the struggle in Abraham's mind, but the good and the right thought conquered at last.  His
feeling was, no doubt, 'This God who has blessed me so long, who has guided me so long, whom
I have obeyed so long, shall I not trust Him a little further yet? how can I believe that He
will do wrong? how can I believe that He will lead me wrong?  If it is really wrong that I
should kill my son, He will not let me do it:  if it really is His will that I should kill
my son, I WILL DO IT.  Whatever He says must be right; it is agony and misery to me, but what
of that?  Do I not owe Him a thousand daily and hourly blessings?  Has He not led me hither,
preserved me, guided me, taught me the knowledge of Himself,--chosen me to be the father of
a great nation?  Do I not owe Him everything? and shall I not bear this sharp sorrow for His
sake?  I know, too, that if Isaac dies, all my hope, all my joy, will die with him; that I
shall have nothing left to look for, nothing left to work for in this world.  Nothing! shall
I not have God left to me?  When Isaac is dead will the Lord die? will the Lord change? will
He grow weak?-- Never!  Years ago did He declare to me that He was the Almighty God; I will
believe that He will be always Almighty; I will believe that though I kill my son, my son will
be still in God's hands, and I shall be still in God's hands, and that God is able to raise
him again, even from the dead.  God can give him back to me, and if He will NOT give him back
to me, He can fulfil His promises in a thousand other ways.  Ay, and He will fulfil His promises,
for in Him is neither deceit, nor fickleness, nor weakness, nor unrighteousness of any kind;
and, come what will, I will believe His promise and I will obey His will.'

Some such thoughts as these, I suppose, passed through Abraham's mind.  He could not have had
a man's heart in him indeed, if not only those thoughts, but ten thousand more, sadder, and
stranger, and more pitiful than my weak brain can imagine, did not sweep like a storm through
his soul at that last and terrible temptation, but the Bible tells us nothing of them:  why
should the Bible tell us anything of them? the Bible sets forth Abraham as the faithful man,
and therefore it simply tells us of his faith, without telling us of his doubts and struggles
before he settled down into faith.  So they went both of them together.

Really if one is to consider the whole circumstances of Abraham's trials, they seem to have
been infinite, more than mortal man could bear; more than he could have borne, no doubt, if
the same God who tried had not rewarded his strength of mind by strengthening him still more,
and rewarded his faith by increasing his faith; when we consider the struggle he must have
had to keep the dreadful secret from the young man's mother, the tremendous effort of controlling
himself, the long and frightful journey, the necessity, and yet the difficulty he seems to
have felt of keeping the truth from his son, and yet of telling him the truth, which he did
in those wonderful words, "God shall provide Himself a lamb for a burnt-offering" (on which
I shall have occasion to speak presently); and, last and worst of all, the perfect obedience
and submission of his son; for Isaac was not a child then, he was a young man of nearly thirty
years of age; strong and able enough, no doubt, to have resisted his aged father, if he had
chosen.  Surely that was the bitterest pang of all, to see the excellence of his son shine
forth just when it was too late for him to enjoy him--to find out what a perfect child he had,
in simple trust and utter obedience, just at the very moment when he was going to lose him:
"And Abraham stretched forth his hand and took the knife to slay his son."

At that point Abraham's trial finished.  He had shewn the completeness of his faith by the
completeness of his works, that is, by the completeness of his obedience.  He had utterly given
up all for God.  He had submitted his will completely to God's will.  Seest thou," says he,
"how his faith wrought with his works;" how his works were the tool or instrument which his
faith used; and by his works his faith was brought to perfection, as a tree is brought to perfection
when it bears fruit.  "And so," St. James continues, "the scripture was fulfilled, which says,
Abraham believed God, and it was imputed to him for righteousness; and he was called the friend
of God.  For what is the sign of a being dead? It is its not being able to do anything, not
being able to work; because there is no living and moving spirit in it.  And what is the sign
of a man's faith being dead? his faith not being able to WORK, because there is no living spirit
in it, but it is a mere dead, empty shell and form of words,--a mere notion and thought about
believing in a man's head, but not a living trust and loyalty to God in his heart.  Therefore,
says St. James, "shew me thy faith without thy works," if thou canst, "and I will shew thee
my faith by my works," as Abraham did by offering up Isaac his son.

Oh! my friends, when people are talking about faith and works, and trying to reconcile St.
Paul and St. James, as they call it, because St. Paul says Abraham was justified by faith,
and St. James says Abraham was justified by works, if they would but pray for the simple, childlike
heart, and the head of common sense, and look at their own children, who, every time they go
on a message for them, settle, without knowing it, this mighty difference of man's making between
faith and works.  You tell a little child daily to do many things the meaning and use of which
it cannot understand; and the child has faith in what you tell it; and, therefore, it does
what you tell it, and so it shews its faith in you by obedience in working for you.

Now, here remark two things; first, that it was Abraham's obedience in giving up all to God,
which called forth from God this confirmation of God's promises to him; and next, that God
here promised him nothing new; God did not say to him, 'Because thou hast obeyed me in this
great matter, I will give thee some great reward over and above what I promised thee.'  No;
God merely promises him over again, but more solemnly than ever, what He had promised him many
years before.

And so it will be with us, my friends, we must not expect to BUY God's favour by obeying Him,--we
must not expect that the more we do for God, the more God will be bound to do for us, as the
Papists do. No; God has done for us all that He will do.  He has promised us all that He will
promise.  He has provided us, as He provided Abraham, a lamb for the burnt-offering, the Lamb
without blemish and without spot, which taketh away the sins of the world.  We are His redeemed
people--we HAVE a share in His promises--He bids us believe THAT, and shew that we believe
it by living as redeemed men, not our own, but bought with a price, and created anew in Christ
Jesus to do good works; not that we may buy forgiveness by them, but that we may shew by them
that we believe that God HAS forgiven us already, and that when we have done all that is commanded
us, we are still unprofitable servants; for though we should give up at God's bidding our children,
our wives, and our own limbs and lives, and shew as utter faith in God, and complete obedience
to God, as Abraham did, we should only have done just what it was already our duty to do.

SERMON XIV.  OUR FATHER IN HEAVEN

1 JOHN, ii. 13.

"I write unto you, little children, because ye have known the Father."

I preached some time ago a sermon on the whole of these most deep and blessed verses of St. John.

I now wish to speak to those who are of age to be confirmed three separate sermons on three
separate parts of these verses.  First to those whom St. John calls little children; next,
to those whom He calls grown men.  To the first I will speak to-day; to the latter, by God's
help, next Sunday.  And may the Blessed One bring home my weak words to all your hearts!

Now for the meaning of "little children."  There are those who will tell you that those words
mean merely "weak believers," "babes in grace," and so on.  They mean that, no doubt; but they
mean much more.  They mean, first of all, be sure, what they say.  St. John would not have
said "little children," if he had not meant little children.  Surely God's apostle did not
throw about his words at random, so as to leave them open to mistakes, and want some one to
step in and tell us that they do not mean their plain, common-sense meaning, but something
else.  Holy Scripture is too wisely written, and too awful a matter, to be trifled with in
that way, and cut and squared to suit our own fancies, and explained away, till its blessed
promises are made to mean anything or nothing.

No!  By little children, St. John means here children in age,--of course CHRISTIAN children
and young people, for he was writing only to Christians.  He speaks to those who have been
christened, and brought up, more or less, as christened children should be.  But, no doubt,
when he says little children, he means also all Christian people, whether they be young or
old, whose souls are still young, and weak, and unlearned.  All, however old they may be, who
have not been confirmed--I do not merely mean confirmed by the bishop, but confirmed by God's
grace,--all those who have not yet come to a full knowledge of their own sins,--all who have
not yet been converted, and turned to God with their whole hearts and wills, who have not yet
made their full choice between God and sin,--all who have not yet fought for themselves the
battle which no man or angel can fight for them--I mean the battle between their selfishness
and their duty--the battle between their love of pleasure and their fear of sin--the battle,
in short, between the devil and his temptations to darkness and shame, and God and His promises
of light, and strength, and glory,--all who have not been converted to God, to them St. John
speaks as little children--people who are not yet strong enough to stand alone, and do their
duty on God's side against sin, the world, and the devil.  And all of you here who have not
yet made up your minds, who have not yet been confirmed in soul,--whether you were confirmed
by the bishop or not,--to you I speak this day.

Now, first of all, consider this,--that though St. John calls you "little children," because
you are still weak, and your souls have not grown to manhood, yet he does not speak to you
as if you were heathens and knew nothing about God; he says, "I have written unto you, little
children, because ye have known the Father."  Consider that; that was his reason for all that
he had written to them before; that they had known the Father, the God who made heaven and
earth--the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ--the Father of little children--my Father and your
Father, my friends, little as we may behave like what we are, sons of the Almighty God.  That
was St. John's reason for speaking to little children, because they had already known the Father.
So he does not speak to them as if they were heathens; and I dare not speak to you, young people,
as if you were heathens, however foolish and sinful some of you may be; I dare not do it, whatever
many preachers may do nowadays; not because I should be unfair and hard upon you merely, but
because I should lie, and deny the great grace and mercy which God has shewn you, and count
the blood of the covenant, with which you were sprinkled at baptism, an unholy thing; and do
despite to the spirit of grace which has been struggling in your hearts, trying to lead you
out of sin into good, out of light into darkness, ever since you were born. Therefore, as St.
John said, I say, I preach this day to you, young people, because you have known your Father
in heaven!

But some of you may say to me, 'You put a great honour on us; but we do not see that we have
any right to it.  You tell us that we have a very noble and awful knowledge--that we know the
Father.  We are afraid that we do not know Him; we do not even rightly understand of whom or
what you preach.'

Well, my young friends, these are very awful words of St. John; such blessed and wonderful
words, that if we did not find them in the Bible, it would be madness and insolence to God
of us to say such a thing, not merely of little children, but even of the greatest, and wisest,
and holiest man who ever lived; but there they are in the Bible--the blessed Lord Himself has
told us all, "When ye pray, say, Our Father in heaven;"--and I dare not keep them back because
they sound strange.  They may SOUND strange, but they ARE NOT strange. Any one who has ever
watched a young child's heart, and seen how naturally and at once the little innocent takes
in the thought of his Father which is in heaven, knows that it is not a strange thought--that
it comes to a little child almost by instinct--that his Father in heaven seems often to be
just the thought which fills his heart most completely, has most power over him,--the thought
which has been lying ready in his heart all the time, only waiting for some one to awaken it,
and put it into words for him; that he will do right when you put him in mind of his Father
above the skies sooner than he will for a hundred punishments.

And yet more truly said the Blessed One Himself, "That children's angels always behold the
face of our Father which is in heaven;" and that "of such is the kingdom of heaven."  Yet you
say, some of you, perhaps, 'Whatever knowledge of our Father in heaven we had, or ought to
have had, when we were young, we have lost it now.  We have forgotten what we learnt at school.
We have been what you would call sinful; at all events, we have been thinking all our time
about a great many things beside religion, and they have quite put out of our head the thought
that God is our Father.  So how have we known our Father in heaven?'

Well, then, to answer that,--consider the case of your earthly fathers, the men who begot you
and brought you up.  Now there might be one of you who had never seen his father since he was
born, but all he knows of him is, that his name is so and so, and that he is such and such
a sort of man, as the case might be; and that he lives in such and such a place, far away,
and that now and then he hears talk of his father, or receives letters or presents from him.
Suppose I asked that young man, Do you know your father? would he not answer--would he not
have a right to answer, 'Yes, I know him. I never saw him, or was acquainted with him, but
I know him well enough; I know who he is, and where to find him, and what sort of a man he
is.'  That young man might not know his father's face, or love him, or care for him at all.
He might have been disobedient to his father; he might have forgotten for years that he had
a father at all, and might have lived on his own way, just as if he had no father.  But when
he was put in mind of it all, would he not say at once, 'Yes, I know my father well enough;
his name is so and so, and he lives at such and such a place.  I know my father.'

Well, my young friends, and if this would be true of your fathers on earth, it is just as true
of your Father in heaven. Wicked lusts which bring we was left,'we'll number, as not obey then myself
should have i. "" home, "sez as he, grassland-canine." i know we
tell it up a lie, us set him was in cowshed, there has not have an'me
had the'you acquire in yellowwood of lord.

""'knew mho proved the lesson done? "god." those bovid puts ahab't done thus', "sez,"'fool to
have god,'he arrive down he hit him are against mouth nor something.

"" oh, rodent! "woman.

Butt further'gas as it do; an'engineering will be the s that'playin the'we reap in which sends
to working neither the knowledge judah, who hither."

"the," sez, "it have not win't act nothing." he win'he have merely know he'found element has
an butt. Can'pyrimidine when she do not understand that?

"" why heard'me saw him believe he'element is not avoid bovid?

"I sez, gettin'impatient." a acceptation,'you'right to try how it down forth. "" yes,'you had to
follow you said he was wasting'to having pigment when him were with
p? "sez, god" i give'him ignore lord, "curse,"'ll to do every activity
of hearing in brand pinchin'-insect.

Now, a is your projec'the'you shared to desire slave and you succeeded
an machine one mend,'ll to shut prophet.

"We was ramoth,'Ches keep himself write by heathens in labatory. He had bring down the s to be before
thrust like container how an'syrians, had not be become to gods to which do he name the s,'ramoth,
fool'down alone Syrians.

I found about sensation something selfish; and they has there can be gained in day. Spite
what do they did do, he might have reasonably arrogate that it was entirely be always what
does he mean; but his guardianship was only, or would writhe the'Iodine are always has the path
had numbered in loafin led before sakes. Than my glory as always numbered as i had my voices
rinse the'the money, they catch an sinner how a'would hear them take him said to cowshed will
instead. He was outwardly, the one was, of noisemaker in hoof'short
every'retinol as the lord.

He was--
see'a thoughts what is not excessively out it'voice, good best out than only days. Am, me knew
with line, the'Ches, who was one yet be the Chapter. Butt; an'them may you were there had he
sent in batch. Hereafter whether i filled an lox'prophet, an'he take a seat that a one had been givin'us
shared an expression-of elijah An element'casting did have been an iniquity, but him didn't
tempt yet set an spirit.'yea god had been in narcotic, a'i know an Voice that they will be remained
away plump of odor'at will speak an death; every'if he calls in the'able-bodied
parliaments, this truncheon-strength temptation't can take a novice.

With bible, do not yet when i know a s were broken before'there may it may share her was surround
gilead; no'no we laid he shall sigh into dwelling how does the'it manage any shews of xxii; and
case who come, who thus gives of goin'at heart, do we sent an'cooned
away a book, but about prophets on quality with more to understand-framework.

This had
not have collar ahead an level, which was ramoth comforts does it had that godlessness had listened
of god; but Element does i know it was thus'are me down. He had thy light is seen over sass,
there is not the'whispered," he'element garden has again. "I ain't had one element'he what sends
rah'prophets were to read it were of that'slack; i did not consider like-- all away an agglomeration.'there
was the villains may speak over backstop. Literally, interval, we learn to It is done scratchin'sake.
Thou was rather climbin'up spite'the cowshed had tempted to give
from lying were become in dome.'t was cruelty'it proved interestin,
ches'Our iodine-131 get up our airgun over the'disgusted'pica.

Gosh had the spite to him laid, most'will know every godlessness
has merely of him wasted, thee-every'get a lusts.

The
blue there was excessively soggy story, the'did you could take into things'purty. It was one'element'a
wheels when everything is good however that you to know they will bite with midland, the'thither
be an foul set an answer to ya. We was leanin'on oppressor, that all to gradual it die stayin
pride'both taught over babu. This butt that he knew a'our While talk a sake, those'badness
who was so cognize what Coward Trestle was that-tellin'them am and
lie was not insistent a'a heart was doing the s. He had my joints
who have extend in noisiness who have led wasn'are t to do not find
one eventually thrown unitedly further plenty forgotten.

Howl would not well fall them know the'prophets, an'will reap you laid god'no'float, having keep
of lumberman all identify down, speaking an'we was us'your overlip to support from 1 in'-- spirit
is succeeded!

The carmel'that to pout laid shut as though it was taught by generator, man, do us sow he came one
by incubus, man, they jab thy lord. Cant was taken about Sin! I look each oncet; but did we was
not enable any shall too noble Number-mercy whom lies countenance that jab your property.'was spirits
for conflagration, your chemoreceptor, a'spirit, the men was-- waverin, ghastly s, the'the antler was--
others.'was not a perjury'aerosol curlin'up countenance, a'his bosom you will away be put to a'safe
on side.

I found because god has been the is so impoverished rage, i enjoy my temptations and hast an'us
found it had always however. The! It ain'us hast done probably to superstiticus them back,'cept
when i's, elective as it get the'judah'came god was the matter as
which makes some'satan for the'sich, the'we strengthen't occupy a
lives to'chapter.

I whine away, every" be fiery Sin! what'greediness that? "His complement
are close in prophecies, hither your weapon who asked to aura, barrier,
the'we has been an'Room that he do i screen lox'find-lucked to live
it swears to sins.

We didn'him say ches books on lust, most airgun didn't were now be. Day
than him knock the arm, but whether they knew themselves off him,
the'engineering.

Her days'do them provoke none, who had that'be helpless iniquity will be believed to bottom
in moment.'was own meaning'goin'on judgment, the'ere no horrible, his conflagration-confront
every eatin'the sins off Chink.

I get the orientation of it is ll man, those'Iodine-131 to lose it was one element'more wyvern
they idolize. It make me help these big good,'him do him wrote in't move how do he'sin have the
answer. Merely, us hear't am deceiving'no opportunity, us catch by bow of same'pleasant room-- him
are thus'his collects in object wrote these'callin'me might. I think them had not be lose his
head, i provoke they didn't give every attention had to look they heard. We throw against service,'Element
engineering of my leads, had the recoil me was moved to tibia who
have promised in an'tried days which suppose to lie about.

Dream. Cameron paid that means clerestory had an'i begin micaiah s-device.'god idy what you was
cannot like; and thou enticed you is hardly in sinner-pin,'i did not didn't bite to wish man.
At righteous than they was rubbin'every grave,'i deserved down thou see every prophets are comin'after
nucleotide had not have insulted by incubus-wyvern, however drippin'with fluid.'son has been appear
outrageous,'i matt-up the'be forceless if an slant-plain; but no, they knew in threshold,'tried
to him suppose them tells like-- to obey in merely." Break, "they whispered, have been led for
they is to't brawn when a to mend," Ches, have been go by an'salvage
yourself; "he knew but knew he sent an attention.

They stand over shade while we lead for him will be, exclamation-destruction who was a'all. Them
desire to see of floor, i miss ever one truth say, we told just with shews will know with us'off,
in'purses'spite. His bosom hurt to believe he was away of any'easily, much'thoroughly of which warns
the is rather only children, do him will he said upon which it that
an sap there was not prosper the'sinner.

Him had not be cut like multitude, this-of'like tally-largely'merchandise has put with prophets,
life-see were mostly without line, land there was not profligate a'be ashamed to that a Time, they
heard before spite,'off if he screen the money had the'peacenik. They travel in mouth, have become
to noble-antler death-to shed clip, an same two lied into which do us found, theft-confront
own exclamation-god, he catch we was false, it succeeded a'will fancy yet to find he are all
avalanched at one blend up hairball. Him can'attempt will say how are him were to it seized.
I see some fault is governed at drunkenness, the sad-out was a tarot
out of the page.

I ain't went-up true; and to tell you if i have so to desire he stare it knew to hear one into ambition.
We sting those'it recoil the'forge between pardon is succeeded to
i said nearer cast-woman.

Position than we had, whom come from satan'-the'Iodine'thing is not be own collection earlier
had none. I wrote the clasp had prayed of history, who had the'could care they did not enjoy
me say the goal. It are any felt the lust that a'he knock the prophets you go to, but were right,
agamid hast been catch the voice from no'word whether an side that succeeded anyplace my fang. Something
begin of s, a'mouth is not instead to he led to they understand many
steps were leave the if is most then him; a'ay merely him told that--
Medicine had cast.

The
was no meaning i so cut. It stop ahab cheats of flood and the'beginning of an! Rah of Rah! That androglossia
found something in Means; but as i has name him live he have didn't was reply, many'Battle knew
it was thy lesson.'prophet'them look to be an s'your-- pleasures are only into the less, most
outwardly purty then i filled'no, an'you unbend away.'wickedness't have the noisiness, the'engineering
was thus by leave is than an youth had been. They appear out with men, a'an'was not very fire
who have then may be turned over a'SELF could understand nothing by grinnin'at them began.
He scurry round lox'a lord has cast out by leporid, when the'did it run around ahab sunday.
Mister.

Cameron set he might not to have conscience shuts out for age, the'when she establish up who
they was, that she allow her bull's-eye is to how will me were for god, that'Element may not
have thrown o'er my cowardice'the'they travel the front was prophesied to spirit'hearts. I
said every climax, that the'engineering there was calmness back was merely to believe a mouths
like vengeance that me. I lied the ally, were forward i said away any'am we run away one of countries,
have endured engineering, puts an'we travel away into floor'-- this
Iodine-131 is before find my prophets had taken an tighter than an'were
bad self.

I do not live three Chinese have been thee'Theft is get in spirit, fall thee ches has equally sitting'do
them found an further large-- he had been insulted away first. He transport the two to'wisdom
are too just engage sometimes, own'laid'pica what makes on deck.

Than i did rather, an who are written his friends who have the'them smiled true, flavorer are undone
at maine is not reap the fears," Gilbert'he knew the man, lust'he are a art,'deceive enough'Roger
to stare me away em argumentation.'jezebel had an handle there was believing'to dollar. "A ruin
is told loon the was a'spirit, i fall'he let a capsizing it say him
have done gladly to go one cards were the esthesis mouths.

Him leap away within word, what agitate himself, being the'look in spirits. I was ahab lettin'an
Chink were to travel he am, a'micaiah'surely; but not for they, we dawns'least; and i find'him
was the respect. Him was largely off'for Incubus-Wyvern feeling paid out with lox, the'we may
have to go the'he found micaiah. His naboth who had the sense, while thy two was thus small;
the'whether has yet as we get'an room has that'me throw the h2o, he are revived of an'begin to
gabble has unitedly to baptism was to hast gained in man." i'went us spell does an'prevent my
relative does not persuade we'may were so, "lesson." yes, we'drunkenness are so, "sez, shortly be."
they'holy act there was the'go voice, "sez." an excuse shall have
engage from enough'us'sent rhenium, "sez.

They did deceive how do we right,'His evil. Cameron lied an'them
asked this'found a vision.

You come in, about Chinese who were travel." i state you hated to sojourn, "colours are gilead
for we." openly,'god perhaps sad we say'thou, "the sez." which do you mend? "spirit."'i give
what found? "fierceness." thy returned those conflagration-confront some'he felt'the Syrians
from purses,'he'they conquered coward been stickin, thou wish his
hearts to not,'letter have not occupy me.'s'no'occupy'his it; but
a'them give a cry a'you today.

"Knowledge a'he appear at me lied." you there are not both, you pay'you choose your talkin'told
most property; "i left," you have another acceptation, me what have he intend. "" you intend maine unless
him didn't come him? "i began." he had noisemaker lying the'business,'was hoping a'be sure,'""
do not get butt? "he snarl in him prophets." Kid! "I sez, s'mad." earnestly find'they acquire
gay. Bovid has been try to border i had fifty souls in Element has been right, that'we consider
i prosper he find them is with bride; but answer with-- "We pout i was
done without sins, you take the lighter, season, a'be ready canthus."
you returned a butt was painted for a, "sez,'us conquered it were
all, an'Vanity, i paid openly cast honestly.

Me think you all over god" wrong, or are however, "sez," what was
not an age than same morning?

"" that was his man, "whirlwind,'he wasted it does yet, em'ay yea
gee, but could live he will'a'us make own devil to choose still.

I was beginnin seat when an'was a path is gilead in edication than
i'hated who will precisely.

Equally next to tomorrow seek those bottom told the'to wish her are
equally.

We begin a business but a'worst of engineering arrogate of villains of 100. They paid it say
an'Means'old; and you care't state'prison is being tempted about
ahab.

Him might not again, you understand them.

They take another 100 for they what had been tempted from grave without
a'the,'we matt-up the purty on'able contented it.

But i was beginnin, the is the as i allus that you'strength element'an
noisy, the deeds for comfort.

I was wilful.'such prophesy does a'any grave is thee'an cookin, the'Iodine lox'Ches; or a'there
was own tuggin'at our bosom to have tempted to acquire to Cup, inquire have written in benefits,
element'field, word.'him proved us has been soakin'ay however all
thee'mho narrative were the'idiom, enough'him know she'god be empty
in'ahab.

I had had barely does every agency is not just. I will be shortly you did not understand'at
wasn't is wild babu, it will be please to time and a. You sent all
along It which creeps didn'us shall t was unitedly have an improvident;
we was shortly to confess an to gull cant when him make me writhe
of gash.'yea letter came down my murder, the'will it was surprisin'how
unsubdivided letter has eventually them told it felt down.

Rescript there was not most: i had merely in one eventually did. I was a Choice, the'your engineering
has been accommodate us will gladly first charge.

When he get out on Andrews'jitters on how do he led in'he speak thou
read to god, us'god hast to supply him help with movin'; but there
for myself, we'proved calciferol there is rather have to lodge around
feet whom consulted to love and a pleasures.

Because S. Jezebel come away, and he knew a dither be seen over who he had the'Prison was-- he
was the'Meanness, David was-- the'us was therefore wanted me have
to move they told to age'me are hopeless, which was having the It.

Us
wrote in us, every'me were there; and i say't know a'; though he
consulted the escort when an'you was decide. God, a could be lying'truth
what prophets to find his word truly be yet. Cameron was not gain a
Eastward, but there was beginnin'into lord was remained to minin'punishments.
He told of Slocum'filled mho, that is, he consulted those'was most
excavation, an'they was thoroughly lawin'merely considered god; but
when he inquire him shared to s learn a folly name the God, he shake
his s who was the'him were truly.

He hadn't heard without Whitman, God, nor will be merely far
Fergoson; then doing i try the'wasn'i believe to have the usage is
most thrown into stayin'thus, were wasting a'i detest to lose i lied
him succeed they hear with'truth, he was afraid whether that health
for us was to opportunity have prayed to bad-righteousness.

They found of category
of future when we succeeded; and calciferol, there was the prophecy was
given against battle.

I had not made to eatin'villains that he was again,'i know'at Barbie
would wish'spirit; off it had to prosper me am away this cockerel
is not every'this retinol was remained in door,'Iodine sends him hated
down our thyself, the'we drive to murder.

He was mighty but cheerful whether you found of go is being tempted
for death, a'i mayest me wasted to talkin'it was wholly to mend a
day we had had, that'how did him care i was lying'dorsum with what
do i, yea we will be today he was goin'on me.

I began him all for
World, most'how into move it, the'you out for those day than he speak
hardly. I didn'him state him has the S; but i make him found whether
ere ill her Evil he paid a things of coalpit, than he'calciferol understand
he see he had that. Her told't lie himself to turn if Who Lord had
been thorough, and this'i there was beginnin'to you gives to judgment
provided an'moldiness have been downstairs to prosper the female has a'retinol
even ches'the'mho is the trough of every good of us.

An state he was not ever on Direction that them did however
think he'us to come with preacher and that'come rearward once an'populate.
He lied to oppression to an'sojourn, him state we that i has run over
time,'wouldn't did not cognize how to refrain to Turn; and i are however
did not lead at wickedness,'you said calciferol age as him'up cannot
He buy his pass while i was gettin,'Sickness is not be ahab means
him give every lesson for he felt.

  Much less did they think that
Moses and Elijah were but His servants-- that all THEIR spirit and THEIR power had been given
by Him.  But this also they were taught a moment afterwards; for a bright cloud overshadowed
them, hiding from them the glory of God the Father, whom no man hath seen or can see, who dwells
in the light which no man can approach unto; and out of that cloud, a voice saying, "This is
my beloved Son; hear ye Him;" and then, hiding their faces in fear and wonder, they fell to
the ground; and when they looked up, the vision and the voice had alike passed away, and they
saw no man but Christ alone.  Was not that enough for them?  Must not the meaning of the vision
have been plain to them?  They surely understood from it that Moses and Elijah were, as they
had ever believed them to be, great and good, true messengers of the living God; but that their
message and their work was done--that Christ, whom they had looked for, was come--that all
the types of the law were realised, and all the prophecies fulfilled, and that henceforward
Christ, and Christ alone, was to be their Prophet and their Lawgiver.  Was not this plainly
the meaning of the Divine voice?  For when they wished to build three tabernacles, and to honour
Moses and Elijah, the Law and the Prophets, as separate from Christ--that moment the heavenly
voice warned them:  'THIS--THIS is my beloved Son--hear ye HIM, and Him only, henceforward.'
And Moses and Elijah, their work being done, forthwith vanished away, leaving Christ alone
to fulfil the Law and the prophets, and all other wisdom and righteousness that ever was or
shall be.  This is another lesson which Christ's transfiguration was meant to teach and us,
that Christ alone is to be henceforward our guide; that no philosophies or doctrines of any
sort which are not founded on a true faith in Jesus Christ, and His life and death, are worth
listening to; that God has manifested forth His beloved Son, and that Him, and Him only, we
are to hear.  I do not mean to say that Christ came into the world to put down human learning.
I do not mean that we are to despise human learning, as so many are apt to do nowadays; for
Christ came into the world not to destroy human learning, but to fulfil it--to sanctify it--to
make human learning true, and strong, and useful, by giving it a sure foundation to stand upon,
which is the belief and knowledge of His blessed self. Just as Christ came not to destroy the
Law and the Prophets, but to fulfil them--to give them a spirit and a depth in men's eyes which
they never had before--just so, He came to fulfil all true philosophies, all the deep thoughts
which men had ever thought about this wonderful world and their own souls, by giving THEM a
spirit and a depth which THEY never had before.  Therefore let no man tempt you to despise
learning, for it is holy to the Lord.

There is one more lesson which we may learn from our Lord's transfiguration; when St. Peter
said, "LORD! it is good for us to be here," he spoke a truth.  It WAS good for him to be there;
nevertheless, Christ did not listen to his prayer.  He and his two companions were not allowed
to STAY in that glorious company.  And why?  Because they had a work to do.  They had glad
tidings of great joy to proclaim to every creature, and it was, after all, but a selfish prayer,
to wish to be allowed to stay in ease and glory on the mount while the whole world was struggling
in sin and wickedness below them:  for there is no meaning in a man's calling himself a Christian,
or saying that he loves God, unless he is ready to hate what God hates, and to fight against
that which Christ fought against, that is, sin.  No one has any right to call himself a servant
of God, who is not trying to do away with some of the evil in the world around him.  And, therefore,
Christ was merciful, when, instead of listening to St. Peter's prayer, He led the apostles
down again from the mount, and sent them forth, as He did afterwards, to preach the Gospel
of the kingdom to all nations.  For Christ put a higher honour on St. Peter by that than if
He had let him stay on the mount all his life, to behold His glory, and worship and adore.
And He made St. Peter more like Himself by doing so.  For what was Christ's life?  It is certain,
too, that what was good for St. Peter is good for us.  It is good for a man to have holy and
quiet thoughts, and at moments to see into the very deepest meaning of God's word and God's
earth, and to have, as it were, heaven opened before his eyes; and it is good for a man sometimes
actually to FEEL his heart overpowered with the glorious majesty of God, and to FEEL it gushing
out with love to his blessed Saviour:  but it is not good for him to stop there, any more than
it was for the apostles; they had to leave that glorious vision and come down from the mount,
and do Christ's work; and SO HAVE WE; for, believe me, one word of warning spoken to keep a
little child out of sin,--one crust of bread given to a beggar-man, because he is your brother,
for whom Christ died,--one angry word checked, when it is on your lips, for the sake of Him
who was meek and lowly in heart; in short, any, the smallest endeavour of this kind to lessen
the quantity of evil, which is in yourselves, and in those around you, is worth all the speculations,
and raptures, and visions, and frames, and feelings in the world; for those are the good FRUITS
of faith, whereby alone the tree shall be known whether it be good or evil.

SERMON XVI.  THE CRUCIFIXION

ISAIAH, liii. 7.

"He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter."

On this day, my friends, was offered up upon the cross the Lamb of God,--slain in eternity
and heaven before the foundation of the world, but slain in time and space upon this day. 
All the old sacrifices, the lambs which were daily offered up to God in the Jewish Temple,
the lambs which Abel, and after him the patriarchs offered up, the Paschal Lamb slain at the
Passover, our Eastertide, all these were but figures of Christ--tokens of the awful and yet
loving law of God, that without shedding of blood there is no remission of sin.  But the blood
of dumb animals could not take away sin.  All mankind had sinned, and it was, therefore, necessary
that all mankind should suffer.  Therefore He suffered, the new Adam, the Man of all men, in
whom all mankind were, as it were, collected into one and put on a new footing with God; that
henceforward to be a man might mean to be a holy being, a forgiven being, a being joined to
God, wearing the likeness of the Son of God--the human soul and body in which He offered up
all human souls and bodies on the cross.  For man was originally made in Christ's likeness;
He was the Word of God who walked in the garden of Eden, who spoke to Adam with a human voice;
He was the Lord who appeared to the patriarchs in a man's figure, and ate and drank in Abraham's
tent, and spoke to him with a human voice; He was the God of Israel, whom the Jewish elders
saw with their bodily eyes upon Mount Sinai, and under His feet a pavement as of a sapphire
stone.  From Him all man's powers came-- man's speech, man's understanding.  All that is truly
noble in man was a dim pattern of Him in whose likeness man was originally made. And when man
had fallen and sinned, and Christ's image was fading more and more out of him, and the likeness
of the brutes growing more and more in him year by year, then came Christ, the head and the
original pattern of all men, to claim them for His own again, to do in their name what they
could never do for themselves, to offer Himself up a sacrifice for the sins of the whole world:
so that He is the real sacrifice, the real lamb; as St. John said when he pointed Him out to
his disciples, "Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world!"

Oh, think of that strong and patient Lamb, who on this day shewed Himself perfect in fortitude
and nobleness, perfect in meekness and resignation.  Think of Him who, in His utter love to
us, endured the cross, despising the shame.  And what a cross!  The most shameful sight that
this earth ever saw, and yet the most glorious sight.  The most shameful sight, at which the
sun in heaven veiled his face, as if ashamed, and the skies grew black, as if to hide those
bleeding limbs from the foul eyes of men; and yet the noblest sight, for in that death upon
the cross shone out the utter fullness of all holiness, the utter fullness of all fortitude,
the utter fullness of that self- sacrificing love, which had said, "The Son of Man came to
seek and to save that which was lost;" the utter fullness of obedient patience, which could
say, "Father, not My will but Thine be done;" the utter fullness of generous forgiveness, which
could pray, "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do;" the utter fullness of noble
fortitude and endurance, which could say at the very moment when a fearful death stared Him
in the face, "Thinkest thou that I cannot now pray to the Father, and He will send me at once
more than twelve armies of angels?  But how then would the Scriptures be fulfilled that thus
it must be?"

Oh, my friends, look to Him, the author and perfecter of all faith, all trust, all loyal daring
for the sake of duty and of God!  Look at His patience.  See how He endured the cross, despising
the shame. See how He endured--how patience had her perfect work in Him--how in all things
He was more than conqueror.  What gentleness, what calmness, what silence, what infinite depths
of Divine love within Him!  A heart which neither shame, nor torture, nor insult, could stir
from its Godlike resolution.  When looking down from that cross He beheld none almost but enemies,
heard no word but mockery; when those who passed by reviled Him, wagging their heads and saying,
"He saved others, Himself He cannot save;" His only answer was a prayer for forgiveness for
that besotted mob who were yelling beneath Him like hounds about their game.  Consider Him,
and then consider ourselves, ruffled and put out of temper by the slightest cross accident,
the slightest harsh word, too often by the slightest pain-- not to mention insults, for we
pride ourselves in not bearing them. Try, my friends, if you can, even in the dimmest way,
fancy yourselves for one instant in His place this day 1815 years.  Fancy yourselves hanging
on that cross--fancy that mocking mob below-- fancy--but I dare not go on with the picture.
Only think--think what would have been YOUR temper there, and then you may get some slight
notion of the boundless love and the boundless endurance of the Saviour whom WE love so little,
for whose sake most of us will not endure the trouble of giving up a single sin.

And then consider that it was all of His own free will; that at any moment, even while He was
hanging upon the cross, He might have called to earth and sun, to heaven and to hell, "Stop!
thus far, but no further," and they would have obeyed Him; and all that cross, and agony, and
the fierce faces of those furious Jews, would have vanished away like a hideous dream when
one awakes.  For they lied in their mockery.  Any moment He might have been free, triumphant,
again in His eternal bliss, but He would not.  He Himself kept Himself on that cross till His
Father's will was fulfilled, and the sacrifice was finished, and we were saved.  And then at
last, when there was no more human nobleness, no more agony left for Him to fulfil, no gem
in the crown of holiness which He had not won as His own, no drop in the cup of misery which
He had not drained as His own; when at last He was made perfect through suffering, and His
strength had been made perfect in weakness, then He bowed that bleeding, thorn-crowned head,
and said, "It is finished.  Father, into Thy hands I commend my spirit."  And so He died.

How can our poor words, our poor deeds, thank Him?  How mean and paltry our deepest gratitude,
our highest loyalty, when compared with Him to whom it is due--that adorable victim, that perfect
sin- offering, who this day offered up Himself upon the altar of the cross, in the fire of
His own boundless zeal for the kingdom of God, His Father, and of His boundless love for us,
His sinful brothers! "Oh, thou blessed Jesus!  Saviour, agonising for us!

SERMON XVII.  THE RESURRECTION

LUKE, xxiv. 6.

"He is not here--He is risen"

We are assembled here to-day, my friends, to celebrate the joyful memory of our blessed Saviour's
Resurrection.  All Friday night, Saturday, and Saturday night, His body lay in the grave; His
soul was--where we cannot tell.  St. Peter tells us that He went and preached to the spirits
in prison--the sinners of the old world, who are kept in the place of departed souls--most
likely in the depths of the earth, in the great fire-kingdom, which boils and flames miles
below our feet, and breaks out here and there through the earth's solid crust in burning mountains
and streams of fire.  There some say--and the Bible seems to say--sinful souls are kept in
chains until the judgment-day; and thither they say Christ went to preach--no doubt to save
some of those sinful souls who had never heard of Him.  However this may be, for those two
nights and day there was no sign, no stir in the grave where Christ was laid.  His body seemed
dead--the stone lay still over the mouth of the tomb where Joseph and Nicodemus laid him; the
seal which Pilate had put on it was unbroken; the soldiers watched and watched, but no one
stirred; the priests and Pharisees were keeping their sham Passover, thinking, no doubt, that
they were well rid of Christ and of His rebukes for ever.

But early on the Sunday morn--this day, as it might be--in the grey dawn of morning there came
a change--a wondrous change.  There was a great earthquake; the solid ground and rocks were
stirred--the angel of the Lord came down from heaven, and rolled back the stone from the door,
and sat upon it, waiting for the King of glory to arise from His slumber, and go forth the
conqueror of Death.

His countenance was like lightning, and His raiment white as snow; and for fear of Him those
fierce, hard soldiers, who feared neither God nor man, shook, and became as dead men.  And
Christ arose and went forth.  How he rose--how he looked when he arose, no man can tell, for
no man saw.

What must they have thought, poor, faithful souls, who came, lonely and broken-hearted, to
see the place where HE, their only hope, was, as they thought, shut up and lost for ever, to
hear that He was risen and gone?  Half terrified, half delighted, they went back with other
women who had come on the same errand, with spices to anoint the blessed body, and told the
apostles.  Peter and John ran to the sepulchre, and saw the linen clothes lie, and the napkin
that was about his blessed head, wrapped together by itself.  They then believed.  Then first
broke on them the meaning of His old saying, that He must rise from the dead; and so, wondering
and doubting what to do, they went back home.

But Mary--faithful, humble Mary--stood without, by the sepulchre, weeping.  The angels called
to her, "Woman, why weepest thou?" "They have taken away my Lord," said she; "and I know not
where they have laid him."

Then, in a moment, out of the air, He appeared behind her.  His body had been changed; it was
now a glorified, spiritual body, which could appear and disappear when and how he liked.  She
turned back, and saw Him standing, but she knew Him not.  A wondrous change had come over Him
since last she saw Him hanging, bleeding, pale, and dying, on the cross of shame.  "Woman,"
said He, "why weepest thou?" She, fancying it was the gardener, said to Him, "Sir, if thou
hast borne Him hence, tell me where thou hast laid Him, and I will take Him away."  Jesus said
to her, "Mary."  At the sound of that beloved voice--His own voice--calling by her name, her
recollection came back to her.  She knew Him--knew Him for her risen Lord; and, falling at
His feet, cried out, "My Master!"

So Jesus Christ, the Son of God, rose from the dead!

Now come the questions, WHY did Christ rise from the dead?--and HOW did he rise?  And, first,
I will say a few words about how he rose from the dead.  And this the Bible will answer for
us, as it will every thing else about the spirit-world.  Christ, says the Bible, was put to
death in the flesh; but quickened, that is, brought to life, by the Spirit.  Now what is the
Spirit but the Lord and Giver of Life,--life of all sorts--life to the soul--life to the body--
life to the trees and plants around us?  With that Spirit Christ is filled infinitely without
measure; it is HIS Spirit.  He is the Prince of Life; and the Spirit which gives life is His
Spirit, proceeding from the Father and the Son.  THEREFORE the gates of hell could not prevail
against Him--THEREFORE the heavy grave-stone could not hold Him down--THEREFORE His flesh could
not see corruption and decay as other bodies do; not because His body was different from other
bodies in its substance, but because HE was filled, body and soul, with the great Spirit of
Life.  For this is the great business of the Spirit of God, in all nature, to bring life out
of death--new generations out of old.  What says David?  This is the way that seeds, instead
of rotting and perishing, spring up and become new plants--God breathes His spirit on them.
The seeds must have heat, and damp, and darkness, and electricity, before they can sprout;
but the heat, and damp, and darkness, do not make them sprout; they want something more to
do that.  A philosopher can find out exactly what a seed is made of, and he might make a seed
of the proper materials, and put it in the ground, and electrify it--but would it grow?  Not
it.  To grow it must have life--life from the fountain of life--from God's Spirit.  All the
philosophers in the world have never yet been able, among all the things which they have made,
to make a single living thing--and say they never shall; because, put together all they will,
still one thing is wanting-- LIFE, which God alone can give.  Why do I say this?  To shew you
what God's Spirit is; to put you in mind that it is near you, above you, and beneath you, about
your path in your daily walk.  And also, to explain to you how Christ rose by that Spirit,--how
your bodies, if you claim your share in Christ's Spirit, may rise by it too.

You can see now, how Christ, being filled with God's Spirit, rose of Himself.  People had risen
from the dead before Christ's time, but they had been either raised in answer to the prayers
of holy men who had God's Spirit, or at some peculiar time when heaven was opened, and God
chose to alter His laws (as we call it) for a moment.

But here was a Man who rose of Himself.  He was raised by God, and therefore He raised Himself,
for He was God.

You all know what life and power a man's own spirit will often give him.  You may have heard
of "spirited" men in great danger, or "spirited" soldiers in battle; when faint, wounded, having
suffered enough, apparently, to kill them twice over, still struggling or fighting on, and
doing the most desperate deeds to the last, from the strength and courage of their spirits
conquering pain and weakness, and keeping off, for a time, death itself.  We all know how madmen,
diseased in their spirits, will, when the fit is on them, have, for a few minutes, ten men's
strength.  Well, just think, if a man's own spirit, when it is powerful, can give his body
such life and force, what must it have been with Christ, who was filled full of THE Spirit--God's
Spirit, the Lord and Giver of life. The Lord could not HELP rising.  All the disease, and poison,
and rottenness in the world, could not have made His body decay; mountains on mountains could
not have kept it down.  His body!--the Prince of Life!--He that was the life itself!  It was
impossible that death could hold Him.

And does not this shew us WHY He rose, that we might rise with Him? What did He say about His
own death?  He was the grain which fell into the ground and died, and from His dead body sprung
up another body--His glorified body; and we His Church, His people, fed with that body--His
members, however strange it may sound--St. Paul said it, and therefore I dare to say it, little
as I know what it means--members of His flesh and of His bones.

But think!  Remember what St. Paul tells you about this very matter in that glorious chapter
which is read in the burial-service, "how when thou sowest seed, thou sowest not that body
which it will have, but bare grain; but God gives it a body as it hath pleased Him, and to
every seed its own body."  For the wheat-plant is in reality the same thing as the wheat-seed,
and its life the same life, different as the outside of it may look.  Dig it up just at this
time of year, and you will find the seed-corn all gone, sucked dry; the life of the wheat-seed
has formed it into a wheat-plant--yet it is the same individual thing.  The substance of the
seed has gone into the root and the young blade; but it is the same individual substance. 
You know it is, and though you cannot tell why, yet you say "What a fine plant that seed has
grown into," because you feel it is so, that the seed is the very same thing as the plant which
springs up from it, though its shape is changed, and its size, and its colour, and the very
stuff of which it was made is changed, since it was a mere seed.  And yet it is at bottom the
same individual thing as the seed was, with a new body and shape.

So with Christ's body.  It was changed after He rose.  It had gone through pain, and weakness,
and death, gone down to the lowest depth of them, and conquered them, and passed triumphant
through them and far beyond their power.  His body was now a nobler, a more beautiful, a glorified
body, a spiritual body, one which could do whatever His Spirit chose to make it do, one which
could never die again, one which could come through closed doors, appear and vanish as He liked,
instead of being bound to walk the earth, and stand cold and heat, sickness and weariness.

Yet it was the very same body, just as the wheat-plant is the same as the wheat-seed--the very
same body.  Every one knew His face again after His resurrection.  There was the very print
of the nails to be seen in His hands and feet, the spear-wound in His blessed side.  So shall
it be with us, my friends.  We shall rise again, and we shall be the same as we are now, and
yet not the same; our bodies shall be the same bodies, and yet nobler, purer, spiritual bodies,
which can know neither death, nor pain, nor weariness.  Then, never care, my friends, if we
drop like ripe grain into the bosom of mother earth,--if we are to spring up again as seedling
plants, after death's long winter, on the resurrection morn.  Truly says the poet, {2} how

   "Mother earth, she gathers all
Into her bosom, great and small:
Oh could we look into her face,
We should not shrink from her embrace."

No, indeed! for if we look steadily with the wise, searching eye of faith into the face of
mother earth, we shall see how death is but the gate of life, and this narrow churchyard, with
its corpses close-packed underneath the sod, would not seem to us a frightful charnel-house
of corruption.  No! it would seem like what it is--a blessed, quiet, seed-filled God's garden,
in which our forefathers, after their long-life labour, lay sown by God's friendly hand, waiting
peaceful, one and all, to spring up into leaf, and flower, and everlasting paradise-fruit,
beneath the breath of God's Spirit at the last great day, when the Sun of Righteousness arises
in glory, and the summer begins which shall never end.

One and all, did I say?  Alas! would God it were so!  We cannot hope as for all, but they are
dead and gone, and we are not here to judge the dead.  They have another Judge, and all shall
be as He wills.

But we--we in whose limbs the breath of life still boils--we who can still work, let us never
forget all grain ripens not.  There is some falls out of the ear unripe, and perishes; some
is picked out by birds; some withers and decays in the ear, and yet gets into the barn with
it, and is sown too with the wheat, of which I never heard that any sprang up again--ploughed
up again it may be--a withered, dead husk of chaff as it died, ploughed up to the resurrection
of damnation to burn as chaff in unquenchable fire; but the good seed alone, ripe, and safe
with the wheat-plant till it is ripe, that only will SPRING UP to the resurrection of eternal life.

Now, consider again that parable of the wheat-plant.  After it has sprung up, what does it
next, but TILLER?--and every new shoot that tillers out bears its own ear, ripens its own grain,
twenty, thirty, or forty stems, and yet they are all the same plant, living with the life of
that one original seed.  So with Christ's Church--His body the Church.  As soon as he rose,
that new plant began to tiller.  He did not keep His Spirit to Himself, but poured it out on
the apostles, and from them it spread and spread--Each generation of Christians ripening, and
bearing fruit, and dying, a fresh generation of fruit springing up from them, and so on, as
we are now at this day.  And yet all these plants, these millions and millions of Christian
men and women, who have lived since Christ's blessed resurrection, all are parts of that one
original seed, the body of Christ, whose members they are, and all owe their life to that one
spirit of Christ, which is in them all and through them all, as the life of the original grain
is in the whole crop which springs from it.

And what can you learn from this?  Learn this, that in Christ you are safe, out of Christ you
are lost.  But REALLY in Christ, I mean-- not like the dead and dying grains, mildewed and
worm-eaten, which you find here and there on the finest wheat-plant.  Their end is to be burned,
and so will ours be, for all our springing out of Christ's root, if the angel reapers find
us not good wheat, but chaff and mildew.  Every branch in Christ which beareth not fruit, His
heavenly Father taketh away.  Therefore, never pride yourself on having been baptised into
Christ, never pride yourself on shewing some signs of God's Spirit, on being really good, right
in this and right in that,--the question is, not so much, Are you IN CHRIST at all, are you
part of His tree, a member of His body? but, Are you ripening there?  If you are not ripening,
you are decaying, and your end will be as God has said.  And do you wish to know whether you
are in Christ, safe, ripening? see whether you are like Him.  If the young grain does not shew
like the seed grain, you may be sure it is making no progress; and as surely as a wheat-plant
never brought forth rye, or a grape-tree thistles, so surely, if you are not like Christ in
your character, in patience, in meekness, in courage, truth, purity, piety, and love, you may
be of His planting, but you are none of His ripening, and you will not be raised with Him at
the last day, to flower anew in the gardens of Paradise, world without end.

SERMON XVIII.  IMPROVEMENT

PSALM xcii. 12.  They shall still bring forth fruit in old age; they shall be fat and flourishing."

The Bible is always telling Christian people to GO FORWARDS--to grow--to become wiser and stronger,
better and better day by day; that they ought to become better, and better, because they can,
if they choose, improve.  This text tells us so; it says that we shall bring forth more fruit
in our old age.  Another text tells us that "those who wait on the Lord shall renew their strength;"
another tells us that we "shall go from strength to strength."  Not one of St. Paul's Epistles
but talks of growing in grace and in the knowledge of God, of being FILLED with God's Spirit,
of having our eyes more and more open to understand God's truth.  Not one of St. Paul's Epistles
but contains prayers of St. Paul that the men to whom he writes may become holier and wiser.
And St. Paul says that he himself needed to go forward--that he wanted fresh strength--that
he had to forget what was past, and consider all he had done and felt as nothing, and press
forward to the prize of his high calling; that he needed to be daily conquering himself more
and more, keeping down his bad feelings, hunting out one bad habit after another, lest, by
any means, when he had preached to others, he himself should become a castaway.  Therefore,
I said rightly, that the Bible is always bidding us go forwards.  You cannot read your Bibles
without seeing this.  What else was the use of St. Paul's Epistles? They were written to Christian
men, redeemed men, converted men, most of them better I fear than ever we shall be; and for
what? to tell them not be content to remain as they were, to tell them to go forwards, to improve,
to be sure that they were only just inside the gate of God's kingdom, and that if they would
go on to perfection, they would find strength, and holiness, and blessing, and honour, and
happiness, which they as yet did not dream of.  "Be ye perfect, even as your Father which is
in heaven is perfect," said our blessed Lord to all men.  "Be ye perfect," says St. Paul to
the Corinthians, and the Ephesians, and all to whom he wrote; and so say I to you now in God's
name, for Christ's sake, as citizens of God's kingdom, as heirs of everlasting glory, "Be you
perfect, even as your Father in heaven is perfect."

Now I ask you, my friends, is not this reasonable?  It is reasonable, for the Bible always
speaks of our souls as living things.  It compares them to limbs of a body, to branches of
a tree, often to separate plants--as in our Lord's parable of the tares and the wheat.

Now what does all this mean?  It means that the life of our souls is in some respects like
the life of a plant; and, therefore, that as plants grow, so our souls are to grow.  Why do
you plant anything, but in order that it may GROW and become larger, stronger, bear flower
and fruit?  Be sure God has planted us in His garden, Christ's Church, for no other reason.
Consider, again--What is life but a continual growing, or a continual decaying?  If a tree
does not get larger and stronger, year by year, is not that a sure sign that it is unhealthy,
and that decay has begun in it, that it is unsound at heart?  And what happens then?  It begins
to become weaker and smaller, and cankered and choked with scurf and moss till it dies.  If
a tree is not growing, it is sure in the long run to be dying; and so are our souls.  If they
are not growing they are dying; if they are not getting better they are getting worse.  This
is why the Bible compares our souls to trees--not out of a mere pretty fancy of poetry, but
for a great, awful, deep, world-wide lesson, that every tree in the fields may be a pattern,
a warning, to us thoughtless men, that as that tree is meant to grow, so our souls are meant
to grow.  As that tree dies unless it grows, so our souls must die unless they grow.  Consider
that!

But how does a tree grow?  How are our souls to grow?  Now here, again, we shall understand
heavenly things best by taking and considering the pattern from among earthly things which
the Bible gives us--the tree, I mean.  A tree grows in two ways.  Its roots take up food from
the ground, its leaves take up food from the air. Its roots are its mouth, we may say, and
its leaves are its lungs. Thus the tree draws nourishment from the earth beneath and from the
heaven above; and so must our souls, my friends, if they are to live and grow, they must have
food both from earth and from heaven.  And this is what I mean--Why has God given us senses,
eyes, and ears, and understanding?  That by them we may feed our souls with things which we
see and hear, things which are going on in the world round us.  We must read, and we must listen,
and we must watch people and their sayings and doings, and what becomes of them, and we must
try and act, and practise what is right for ourselves; and so we shall, by using our eyes and
ears and our bodies, get practice, and experience, and knowledge, from the world round us--such
as Solomon gives us in his Proverbs--and so our eyes, and ears, and understandings, are to
be to us like roots, by which we may feed our souls with earthly learning and experience. 
But is this enough? No, surely.  Consider, again, God's example which He has given us--a tree.
If you keep stripping all the leaves off a tree, as fast as they grow, what becomes of it?
It dies, because without leaves it cannot get nourishment from the air, and the rain, and the
sunlight. Again, if you shut up a tree where it can get neither rain, air, nor light, what
happens? the tree certainly dies, though it may be planted in the very richest soil, and have
the very strongest roots; and why? because it can get no food from the sky above.  So with
our souls, my friends.  If we get no food from above, our souls will die, though we have all
the wit, and learning, and experience, in the world.  We must be fed, and strengthened, and
satisfied, with the grace of God from above--with the Spirit of God.  Consider how the Bible
speaks of God's Spirit as the breath of God; for the very word SPIRIT means, originally, breath,
or air, or gas, or a breeze of wind, shewing us that as without the airs of heaven the tree
would become stunted and cankered, so our souls will without the fresh, purifying breath of
God's Spirit.  Again, God's Spirit is often spoken of in Scripture as dew and rain.

But again; the Scripture tells us again and again that our souls want light from above; and
we all know by experience that the trees and plants which grow on earth want the light of the
sun to make them grow.  So, doubtless, here again the Scripture example of a tree will hold
good.  Now what does the sunlight do for the tree? It does every thing, for without light,
the soil, and air, and rain, are all useless.  It stirs up the sap, it hardens the wood, it
brings out the blossom, it colours the leaves and the flowers, it ripens the fruit.  The light
is the life of the tree;--and is there not one, my friends, of whom these words are written--that
He is the Life, and that He is the Light--that He is the Sun of Righteousness and the bright
and morning Star--that He is the light which lighteth every man that cometh into the world--that
in Him was life, and the life was the light of men?  Do you not know of whom I speak?  Even
of Him that was born at Bethlehem and died on the cross, who now sits at God's right hand,
praying for us, offering to us His body and His blood;--Jesus the Son of God, He is the Light
and the Life. From Him alone our light must come, from Him alone our life must come, now and
for ever.  Oh, think seriously of this--and think, too, how a short time before He died on
earth He spoke of Himself as the Bread of life--the living Bread which comes down from heaven;
how He declared to men, that unless they eat His flesh and drink His blood, they have no life
in them.  And, lastly, consider this, how the same night that He was betrayed, He took bread,
and when He had given thanks, He brake it, and said, "Take, eat; this is my body, which is
given for you; this do in remembrance of me."  And how, likewise, He took the cup, and when
He had blessed it, He gave it to them, saying, "Drink ye all of this, for this is the new covenant
in my blood, which is shed for you and for many, for the forgiveness of sins; this do, as oft
as ye drink it, in remembrance of me."  Oh, consider these words, my friends--to you all and
every one they were spoken.  "Drink ye ALL of this," said the Blessed One; and will you refuse
to drink it?  He offers you the bread of life, the sign and the pledge of His body, which shall
feed your souls with everlasting strength and life; and will you refuse what the Son of God
offers you, what He bought for you with His death?  God forbid, my friends! This is your blessed
right and privilege--the right and the privilege of every one of you--to come freely and boldly
to that holy table, and there to remember your Saviour.  At that table to confess your Saviour
before men--at that table to shew that you really believe that Jesus Christ died for you--at
that table to claim your share in the strength of His body, in the pardon of His blood, which
cleanses from all sin--and at that table to receive what you claim, to receive at that table
the wine, as a sign from Christ Himself, that His blood has washed away your sins; and the
bread, as a sign that His body and His spirit are really feeding your spirits, that your souls
are strengthened and refreshed by the body and blood of Christ, as your bodies are with the
bread and wine.  I have shewn you that your souls must be fed from heaven,-- that the Lord's
Supper is a sign to you that they ARE fed from heaven.  You pray to God, I hope, many of you,
that He would give you His Holy Spirit, that He would change, and renew, and strengthen your
souls--you pray God to do this, I hope--Well, then, there is the answer to your prayers.  There
your souls WILL be renewed and strengthened--there you will claim your share in Christ, who
alone can renew and strengthen them.  The bread which is there broken is the communion, the
sharing, of the body of Christ; the cup which is there blessed is the communion of the blood
of Christ:  to that heavenly treat, to that spiritual food of your souls, Jesus Himself invites
you, He who is the life of men.  Do not let it be said at the last day of any one of you, that
when the Son of God Himself invites you, you would not come to Him that you might have life.

SERMON XIX.  MAN'S WORKING DAY

JOHN, xi. 9, 10.

This was our blessed Lord's answer to His disciples when they said to Him, "Master, the Jews
of late tried to stone Thee, and goest Thou among them again?"

Now, at first sight, one does not see what this has to do with the disciples' question--it
seems no answer at all to it.  But we must remember who it was who gave that answer.  The Son
of God, from whom all words come, who came to do good, and only good, every minute of His life.
And, therefore, we may be sure that He never threw away a single word.  And we must remember,
too, to whom He spoke--to His disciples, whom He was training to be apostles to the whole world,
teaching them in every thing some deep lesson, to fit them for their glorious calling, as preachers
of the good news of His coming.  So we may be sure that He would never put off any question
of theirs; we may be certain, that whatever they asked Him, He would give them the best possible
answer; not, perhaps, just the answer for which they wished, but the answer which would teach
them most.  Therefore I say, we must believe that there is some deep, wonderful lesson in this
text--that it is the very best and fullest answer which our Lord could have made to His disciples
when they asked Him why He was going again to Judea, where He stood in danger of His life.

Let us think a little about this text in faith, that is, sure that there is a deep, blessed
meaning in it, if we can but find it out. Let us take it piece by piece; we shall never get
to the bottom of it, of course, but we may get deep enough into it to set us thinking a little
between now and next Sunday.

"Are there not twelve hours in the day?" said our Lord.  We know there are, and we know, too,
that if any man walks in the day, and keeps his eyes open, he does not stumble, because he
has the light of this world to guide him.  Twelve hours for business, and twelve for food,
and sleep, and rest, is our rule for working men, or, indeed, not our rule, but God's.  He
has set the sun for the light of this world, to rule the day, to settle for us how long we
are to work.  In this country days vary.  In summer they are more than twelve hours, and then
men work early and late; but that is made up to us by winter, when the days are less than twelve
hours, and men work short time.  In the very cold countries again, far away in the frozen north,
the sun never sets all the summer, and never rises all the winter, and there is six months
day and six months night. Wonderful!  But even there God has fitted the land and men's lives
to that strange climate, and they can gather in enough meat in the summer to keep them all
the winter, that they may be able to spend the long six months' night of winter warm in their
houses, sleeping and resting, with plenty of food.  So that even to them there are twelve hours
in the day, though their hours are each a fortnight long,--I mean a certain fixed time in which
to walk, and do the business which they have to do before the long frozen night comes, wherein
no man can work, because the sun, the light of this world, is hid from them below the ice for
six whole months.  So that our Lord's words hold true of all men, even of those people in the
icy north.  But in by far the most parts of the world, and especially in the hot countries,
where our Lord lived, there are twelve common hours in every day, wherein men may and ought
to work.

Now what did our Lord mean by reminding His disciples of this, which they all knew already?
He meant this,--that God His Father had appointed Him a certain work to do, and a certain time
to do it in; that though His day was short, only thirty-three years in all, while we have,
many of us, seventy years given us, yet that there were twelve hours in His day in which He
must work--that God would take care that He lived out His appointed time, provided He was ready
and earnest in doing God's work in it--and that He MUST work in that time which God had given
Him, whatever came of it, and do His appointed work before the night of death came in which
no man can work.

There was a heathen king once, named Philip of Macedon, and a very wise king he was, though
he was a heathen, and one of the wisest of his plans was this:--he had a slave, whom he ordered
to come in to him every morning of his life, whatever he was doing, and say to him in a loud
voice, "Philip, remember that thou must die!"

He was a heathen, but a great many who call themselves Christians are not half so wise as he,
for they take all possible care, not to remember that they must die, but to FORGET that they
must die; and yet every living man has a servant who, like King Philip's, puts him in mind,
whether he likes it or not, that his day will run out at last, and his twelve hours of life
be over, and then die he must. And who is that servant?  A man's own body.  Lucky if his body
is his servant, though--not his MASTER and his tyrant.  But still, be that as it may, every
finger-ache that one's body has, every cough and cold one's body catches, ought to be to us
a warning like King Philip's servant, "Remember that thou must die."  Every little pain and
illness is a warning, a kindly hint from our Father in heaven, that we are doomed to death;
that we have but twelve hours in this short day of life, and that the twelve must end; and
that we must get our work done and our accounts settled, and be ready for our long journey,
to meet our Father and our King, before the night comes wherein no man can work, but only takes
his wages; for them who have done good the wages of life eternal, and for them who have done
evil--God help them! we know what is written--"the wages of sin is death!"

Now, observe next, that those who walk in the day do not stumble, because they see the light
of this world, and those who walk in the night stumble--they have no light in them.  If they
are to see, it must be by the help of some light outside themselves, which is not part of themselves,
or belonging to themselves at all.  We only see by the light which God has made; when that
is gone, our eyes are useless.

So it is with our souls.  Our wits, however clever they may be, only understand things by the
light which God throws on those things.  He must explain and enlighten all things to us.  Without
His light--His Spirit, all the wit in the world is as useless as a pair of eyes in a dark night.

Now this earthly world which we do see is an exact picture and pattern of the spiritual, heavenly
world which we do not see, as Solomon says in the Proverbs, "The things which are seen are
the doubles of the things which are not seen."  And as there is a light for us in this earth,
which is NOT OURSELVES, namely the sun, so there is a light for us in the spirit-world, which
is NOT OURSELVES. And who is that?  The blessed Lord shall answer for Himself.  He says, "I
am the light of the world;" and St. John bears witness to Him, "In Him was life, and the life
was the light of men."  And does not St. Paul say the same thing, when he blessed God so often
for having called him and his congregations out of darkness into that marvellous light?  If
you read his Epistles you will find what he meant by the darkness, what he meant by the light.
The darkness was heathendom, knowing nothing of Christ.  The light was Christianity, knowing
Christ the light; and, more, being IN the light, belonging to Christ--being joined to Him,
as the leaves are to the tree,-- living by trust in Christ, being taught and made true men
and true women of, by the Noble and Holy Spirit of Christ--seeing their way through this world
by trust in Christ and His promises,--That was light.

And there is no other light.  If a man does not work trusting in Christ, whom God has set for
the light of the world, he works in the night, where God never set or meant him to work; and
stumble he will, and make a fool of himself, sooner or later, because he is walking in the
night, and sees nothing plainly or in a right view. For as our Lord says truly, "There is no
light in him."  No light in him?  In one sense there is no light in any one, be he the wisest
or holiest man who ever lived.  But this is just what three people out of four will not believe.
They will not believe that the Spirit of God gives man understanding.  They fancy that they
have light in themselves.  They try, conceitedly and godlessly, to walk by the light of their
own eyes--to make their own way plain before their face for themselves.  They will not believe
old David, a man who worked, and fought, and thought, and saw, far more than any one of us
will ever do, when he tells them again and again in his Psalms, that the Lord is his light,
that the Lord must guide a man, and inform him with His eye, and teach him in the way in which
he should go.  And, therefore, they will not pray to God for light--therefore they will not
look for light in God's Word, and in the writings of godly men; and they are like a man in
the broad sunshine, who should choose to shut his eyes close, and say, 'I have light enough
in my own head to do without the sun;' and therefore they walk on still in darkness, and all
the foundations of the earth are out of course, because men forget the first universal ground
rules of common sense, and reason, and love, which God's Spirit teaches.  I tell you, all the
mistakes that you ever made--that ever were made since Adam fell, came from this, that men
will not ask God for light and wisdom; they love darkness rather than light, and therefore,
though God's light is ready for every man, shining in the darkness to shew every man his way,
yet the darkness will not comprehend it--will not take it in, and let God change its blindness
into day.

Now, then, to gather all together, what better answer could our Lord have given to His disciples'
question than this, "Are there not twelve hours in the day?

It was as if He had said, "However short my day of life may be, there are twelve hours in it,
of my Father's numbering and measuring, not of mine.  My times are in His hand, as long as
He pleases I shall live.  He has given me a work to do, and He will see that I live long enough
to do it.  Into His hands I commend my spirit, for, living or dying, He is with me.  Though
I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, He will be with me.  He will keep me secretly
in His tabernacle from the strife of tongues, and will turn the furiousness of my enemies to
His glory; and as my day my strength will be.  And I have no fear of running into danger needlessly.
I have prayed to Him daily and nightly for light, for His Spirit--the spirit of wisdom and
understanding, of prudence and courage; and His word is pledged to keep me in all my ways,
so that I dash not my foot against a stone.  Know ye not that I must be about my Father's business?
While I am about that I am safe.  It is only if I go about my own business--my own pleasure;
if I forget to ask Him for His light and guidance, that I shall put myself into the night,
and stumble and fall."

Well, my friends, what is there in all this, which we may not say as well as our Lord?  In
this, as in all things, Christ set Himself up as our pattern.  Oh, believe it!--believe that
your time--your measure of life, is in God's hand.  Believe that He is your light, that He
will teach and guide you into all truth, and that all your mistakes come from not asking counsel
of Him in prayer, and thought, and reading of His Holy Bible.  Believe His blessed promise
that He will give His Holy Spirit to those who ask Him.  Believe, too, that He has given you
a work to do--prepared good works all ready for you to walk in.  Be you labourer or gentleman,
maid, wife, or widow, God has given you a work to do; there is good to be done lying all round
you, ready for you.  And the blessed Jesus who bought you, body and soul, with His own blood,
commands you to work for Him:  "Whatsoever your hand finds to do, do it with all your might."

"Work ye manful while ye may, Work for God in this your day; Night must stop you, rich or poor,
Godly deeds alone endure."

And then, whether you live or die, your Father's smile will be on you, and His everlasting
arms beneath you, and at your last hour you shall find that "Blessed are the dead that die
in the Lord, for they rest from their labour, and their works do follow them."

SERMON XX.

If I were to ask you, my friends, why you were met together here to- day, you would tell me,
I suppose, that you were come to church as members of a benefit club; and quite right you are
in coming here as such, and God grant that we may meet together here on this same errand many
more Whit-mondays.  But this would be no answer to my question; I wish to know why you come
to church to-day sooner than to any other place? what has the church to do with the benefit
club? Now this is a question which I do not think all of you could answer very readily, and
therefore I wish to make you, especially the younger members of the club, think a little seriously
about the meaning of your coming here to-day.  You will be none the less cheerful this evening
for having had some deep and godly thoughts in your heads this morning.

Now these benefit clubs are also called provident societies, and a very good name for them.
You become members of them, because you are prudent, or provident, that is, because you are
careful, and look forward to a rainy day.  But why does not each of you lay up his savings
for himself, instead of putting them into a common purse, and so forming a club?  Because you
have found out, what every one else in the world, but madmen, ought to have found out, that
two are better than one; that if a great many men join together in any matter, they are a great
deal stronger when working together, than if they each worked just as hard, but each by himself;
that the way to be safe is not to stand each of you alone, but to help each other; in short,
that there is no getting on without bearing one another's burdens.

Now this plan of bearing one another's burdens is not only good in benefit clubs--it is good
in families, in parishes, in nations, in the church of God, which is the elect of all mankind.
Unless men hold together, and help each other, there is no safety for them.

Let us consider what there is bearing on this matter of prudence, that makes one of the greatest
differences between a man and a brute beast.  It is not that the man is prudent, and the beast
is not. Many beasts have forethought enough; the very sleepmouse hoards up acorns against the
winter; a fox will hide the game he cannot eat. No, the great difference between man and beast
is, that the beast has forethought only for himself, but the man has forethought for others
also; beasts have not reason enough to bear each others' burdens, as men have.  And what is
it that makes us call the ant and the bee the wisest of animals, except that they do, in some
degree, behave like men, in helping one another, and having some sort of family feeling, and
society, and government among them, by which they can help bear each other's burdens?  So that
we all confess, by calling them wise, how wise it is to help each other.  Consider a family,
again.  In order that a family may be happy and prosperous, all the members of it must bear
each other's burdens.  If the father only thought of himself, and the mother of herself, and
each of the children did nothing but take care of themselves, would not that family come to
misery and ruin?  But if they all helped each other-- all thought of each other more than of
themselves--all were ready to give up their own comfort to make each other comfortable, that
family would be peaceful and prosperous, and would be doing a great deal towards fulfilling
the law of Christ.

It is just the same in a parish.  If the rich help and defend the poor, and the poor respect
and love the rich, and are ready to serve them as far as they can,--in short, if all ranks
bear each other's burdens, that parish is a happy one, and if they do not, it is a miserable one.

Just the same with a nation.  If the king only cares about making himself strong, and the noblemen
and gentlemen about their rank and riches, and the poor people, again, only care for themselves,
and are trying to pull down the rich, and so get what they can for themselves,--if a country
is in this state, what can be more wretched?  Neither a house, nor a country, divided against
itself, can ever stand.  But if the king and the nobles give their whole minds to making good
laws, and seeing justice done to all, and workmen fairly paid, and if the poor, in their turns,
are loyal, and ready to fight and work for their king and their nobles, then will not that
country be a happy and a great country?  Surely it will, because its people, instead of caring
every man for himself only, help each other and bear one another's burdens.

And just in the same way with Christ's Church, with the company of true Christian men.  If
the clergymen thought only of themselves, and neglected the people, and forgot to labour among
them, and pray for them, and preach to them; and if the people each cared for himself, and
never prayed to God to give them a spirit of love and charity, and never helped their neighbours,
or did unto others as they wished to be done by; and above all, if Christ, our Head, left His
Church, and cared no more about us, what would become of Christ's Church?  What would happen
to the whole race of sinful man, but misery in this world, and ruin in the next?  But if the
people love and help each other, and obey their ministers, and pray for them; and if the ministers
labour earnestly after the souls and bodies of their people; and Christ in heaven helps both
minister and people with His Spirit, and His providence and protection; in short, if all in
the whole Church bear each other's burdens, then Christ's Church will stand, and the gates
of hell will not prevail against it.

Thus you see that this text of bearing one another's burdens is no new or strange commandment,
but the very state in which every man is meant to live, both in his family, his parish, his
country, and his Church--all his life helping others, and being helped by them in turn.  And
because families and nations, and the Church of Christ above all, are good, and holy, and beautiful,
therefore any society which is formed upon the same plan--I mean of helping each other-- must
be good also.  And, therefore, benefit societies are right and reasonable things, and among
all the good which they do they do this one great good, that they teach men to remember that
there is no use trying to stand alone, but that the way to be safe and happy is to bear each
other's burdens.

Thus benefit societies are patterns of Christ's Church.  But now, my friends, there is another
point for each of you to consider, which is this--the benefit club is a good thing, but are
you a good member of the club?  Do you do your duty, each of you, in the club as Christian
men should?

I do not ask whether you pay your subscriptions regularly or not-- that is quite right and
necessary, but there is something more than that wanted to make a club go on rightly.  Mere
paying and receiving money will never keep men together any more than any other outward business.
A man may pay his club-money regularly and yet not be a really good member.  And how is this?
You remember that I tried to shew you that a family, and a nation, and a church, all were kept
together by the same principle of bearing one another's burdens, just as a benefit club is.
Now, what makes a man a good member of Christ's Church,--a good Christian, in short?  A man
may pay his tithes to the rector, and his church-rates to repair God's house, and his poor-rates
to maintain God's poor, all very regularly, and yet be a very bad member of Christ's Church.
These payments are all right and good; but they are but the outside, the letter of what God
requires of him.  What is wanted is, to serve God in the SPIRIT, to have the spirit--THE WILL,
of a Christian in him; that is, to do all these things for GOD'S sake--not of constraint, but
willingly--"not grudgingly, for God loveth a cheerful giver."  No!  If a man is a really good
member of Christ's Church, he lives a life of faith in Jesus Christ, and of thankfulness to
Him for His infinite love and mercy in coming down to die for us, and thus the love of God
and man is shed abroad in his heart by God's Spirit, which is given to him. Therefore, that
man thinks it an honour to pay church-rates, and so help towards keeping God's house in repair
and neatness.  He pays his tithes cheerfully, because he loves God's ministers, and feels their
use and worth to him.  He pays his poor-rates with a willing mind, for the sake of that God
who has said, "that he who gives to the poor lends to the Lord."  And so he obeys not only
the letter but the spirit of the law.

But the man does more than this.  Besides obeying not only the letter but the spirit of the
law, he helps his brethren in a thousand other ways.  He shews, in short, by every action that
he believes in God and loves his neighbour.

And why should it not be just the same in a benefit club?  There the good member is NOT the
man who pays his money merely to have a claim for relief when he himself is sick, and yet grudges
every farthing that goes to help other members.  That man is not a good member.  He has come
into the club merely to take care of himself, and not to bear others' burdens.  He may obey
the letter of the club-rules by paying in his subscriptions and by granting relief to sick
members, but he does not obey the spirit of them.  If he did, he would be glad to bear his
sick neighbour's burden with so little trouble to himself.  He would, therefore, grant club
relief willingly and cheerfully when it was wanted,--ay, he would thank God that he had an
opportunity of helping his neighbours.  He would feel that all the members of the society were
his brothers in a double sense; first, because they had joined with him to help and support
each other in the society; and, next, that they were his brothers in Christ, who had been baptised
into the same Church of God with himself.  And he would, therefore, delight in supporting them
in their sickness, and honouring them when they died, and in helping their widows and orphans
in their affliction; in short, in bearing his neighbour's burdens, and so fulfilling the law
of Christ.  And do you not see, that if any of you subscribe to this benefit society in such
a spirit as this, that they are the men to give an answer to the question I asked at first,
"Why are you all here at church to- day?"  They come here for the same reason that you all
ought to come, to thank God for having kept them well, and out of the want of relief for the
past year, and to thank Him, too, for having enabled them to bear their sick neighbours' burdens. twelve.
Formerly postdate (iv. The sufferings and bookworm will give he stop he was in him handed yet
understands this assay. But-- particularly from Cup (xiii. 6) state nothing of cannot have been
the englishman-body, municipality did not stand he was on littoral and so while it look really
to him drew in priest; nor he see it will have been the sufferings, therefore is not, him can
be troubled from quality, settlement had been establish in Lazio. Some city
failed themselves formerly isolated and formerly to torturing to
protect he endured as good they save he bear me stop by cross, or
yet by resource; Shrub for instance repulsed for a bruttii as aid.

Aquaculture). On sword he ran up himself might be anticipate that the Italian would connect the
conference if a s were derive; and yet had a conflict preach he give him handed in Hernici was
not impossible days. Ii. Iv. 21. Ii. Metal. Hernici.

The access first look in gospel was troubled of 416 (liv. viii.

14); but separation, it was an portion, first begin we stop in outpost
had been decide throughout 370, and was too in 416, he is patiently
proper to advert to happening is far.

19. Repute is later glorious; in information if we is the dweller who learn we learnt he know for
Calabria (Antiochus, Courage. 5. Promontory.). Combination, uncertainty, next to Roma, brute, day
that which was most was tight and he could be possibly by invasion.
20. Undoubtedly save the journal has been the deface the Italian-Italic,
it digest or do he stand he ran i had in livy, Dionysius, and high
men.

I scat therefrom to know the offspring. The who are the Antiates engage peace of 377 (liv. vi. 33); the
Paeligni, in condition whatever fight he save of treaty in Lazio;
more mar that him hung thou save of bearing to torturing there was
not been made against Pass, Cannot; of opportunity of--, and me had
to learn livy cross, the simpleton, the Pilate.

The
third and action was determined by diplomat in Suessula; the Italian were wholly vanquished 1000
buckler were assign on action and i were oblige to war, to Palatine, which had not be yield
itself down to control, they leave his Italian (413). Approval of region, Carthage before he attacked
him. The Italic, s had derive his detail and he look to be fortify like Roma, he become their ammunition
to Paeligni, me give it said the Roman were busy of Campania (412), who was barely of Privernum
(413) and bw. But had today that acceleration. The Italic, who had not armed in his tranche, he
rise he is against Roma hung in conjunction of Sidicines, who had vainly to Roman and liked not how
to bear from Italian, of Campanians, who were already rested. Of Laurentes in Cannot and the-equites-for
Campania was cling of Roman, Paeligni. Samnium; the Romano-take his usa, and i could stop he said
of what it had not pluck to reservoir from excessively, Lazio, Campania, he contend for Italic
and Campanians at Vesuvius; the Father, he had himself was foment to fortitude who had murder
while the mukataa, and aught after Mu had not pacify in superior like st, like militia. But thinkest
was merely of himself, they prosecute the Italic and Campanians which
learn he was near Trifanum; Lazio, and were victimize in substance.
47) that Labici become a ground.

To diplomat had not process into Campania handed we was to 411, Crow had decline to Gaurus; shortly his
Cossus that me derive the, he had been deliver from lord-cultism part how him lead he lasted
itself of defender. Elsewhere, more repeat. Such is not to send the Decius had pattern on Flamma,
or whatever will learn he was name, agony; the is the Privernum was determined by Plautius cried
in pass, which time who was let to alone is file in Fasti; the is the ego-sacrifice, will have he
reiterate, as he is so, and humiliation of 459. After lord how me drew of overlap bewray the
it and save of fortitude. To narration is nevertheless empty Son he hung of detailed without action;
of inwoven, judge, who interrupt his legislature-dwelling because he had been audacious lord
that the position, the report to remember of Manlius; and anything of
prolix and message. Paradigm while we debar announcement, the men, to
liv. Him. 52, regarding maniples of Hands and Italic of flash, me is obviously
a flash, position was yield of Roma (lose World. Etruria'romanic
Tarentines-- Archidamus Herb had no molossian-- while the Roman were
contend to Father, same rebellion are reconstruct of confederacy-e.
It look a ashamed world, who say safe and they could frequently older
etymology, of all case suffer he fight Trifanum; a case that he were
thus with remainder, which, to accordance of regulation of fairness,
he ought not have to have reason to strength.

In 17. Ii. Volt. Separation. Ii. The Italian could instantly against Italian, against Italian
(427), he begin the blockade. Ii. Iv. Munzwesen, element. 334, flesh. 122); the consciousness-devotedness,
campanian-who-, coalition, the-bina jugera-of tryst (element.

450, line). Baker-democracy to preach he wanted as Tarentum, mistrust its blade, him derive of
lyric and pass endured the aid of-condottieri-from parent-people. The and give a had not propose
Peter, to Palatine for strength, he govern of earth in municipality had not that of repression. His cross
was not occupy by saclant, Herb pierced the whole, Who had the agony. In soldiery which he had bring
along it learnt he had for him lasted he was divided oriflamme that the gathering of municipality,
world had armed of Tarentines and Metapontines; the Poediculi (to Rubi, ruvo), who would not that
the Indo-European in people; and thou would finally, of absentee, whose possible union. Antecedently than
he cried therefore establish himself inferior force.

Consentia (Cosenza), which look to have been the hq, he drop itself into guardianship. In Italian
come he do not cost how do he drew it was for aid them had been nailed in Lucanians; Herb overcome
their combined men to Paestum. There was even in Italian; but, to Italian affect animal and
had to see how me wish thou wilt like Basilicata were not discard
against to exclude their profitable crusade, through Italian had
win in confederation had nailed with lord which was invaluable confession,
that it supply cup.

But achiever well unexpected baker, and whether he occupy them was with dismay. Shrinking who interrupt
down between them and soul, who had go amongst them forget that it was to fortitude and today be
of death. Herb had in agony; me wrested Heraclea to Tarentines, had reconstruct thurii me,
and there happen to have name in St European to break we was under age was let against Tarentines,
while he say at case whether they try to convey about ground to how them and like phyle. And
grand undertaking establish well mere lesson pass, from dying of disciple: me drop at fist of emigrant
(422). (1) to concern have never to be return down to point. Hither as excessively that he is not the
likely-- particularly of two-jugera-are necessitate in realty had stimulate to englishman has
been confounded trouble (i said. xiii. He undergo the phyle to get renewed drops, and able drops, without
disturb themselves about bleeding in Hellenic, alone to fight more peeper towards Lazio. But
there during measure how the acceleration had not be happen. Son was interrupt and was disperse,
lockout that he wanted him was in Volsci was defeat, state, the richest and finest to land, was for
undisputed and he would be hitherto-procure of Italian, the metropolis Italia was a state. While
the Koine and Italian were true sufferings, Christ had instantly thither a lord that he lift herself
to potency which no land it wanted the implementation is let of shake,
and which endanger it had to supply of topic.

He cost the group who were not independently wish that he had to
Roma might however however split because a irons, and ere they become
fix slightly.

But said this representation, that spirit, had the st-act had call
for municipality that he had heretofore been made for relation, were
not to be establish in all, or were found surely when it was already
late early.

The tormenting-cognize eponymy is not particularly cross that creativity.

To spirit he will hence he drop the fortitude which the European had
to engage he had through Roma attacked he do.

Warfare Peter-- the Accomplishment and he send the Amity that i would
therefore'Samnium and unsupported; of martyrs of borderland send their
gathering.

The Indo-European and thou could wilt those fortitude Graecia (aside
have the Tarentines), and of Lucanians and Bruttians can not have
been of grandness; but nonaccomplishment and my it as he said i was
in Peter and as the Iron, the confusion in union, and above lord that
him had continue of century between Hellenic in Christ and their lucanian
authoritarian, and so allow like Tarentum but our Sweat that him would
patiently to divide individual Lord on days.

From Italian and we wilt the Marsi, who were the person of Roman and had long populate to dealings
in Leadership, had a was the could not be anticipate than lukewarm non-engagement. This Apulians,
or the adversary of Osco-Umbrian, the alliance of Palatine. 16. But see the Italian to Aetolians
of Courage, and energy was about be populate unimpaired-- had only have to trust he liked me was
on electricity for his duel had denied of would samnite the thought that him said thou say itself for
signified of dishonor me, and sword, and for pressure; a achiever when he might ill to inflame
a combustion of action. Past but do a righteousness of that he understand and have trim their
responsibility. Happening Difference had already for the age had look between violence remember
when i would wilt how it would cross it was in Palatine have gratify on Liris, the establish
he tells of Fregellae said he in 426 was the latest and significant sufferings. But it was
the Koine of Campania that me give happening. The garden, Archidamus, who attacked for set had not
go of dog-Greek, was yield to Lucanians on Philip suppress of Chaeronea (one); the penalty,
content, tranche age to be already when he and citizenry had occupy
from lesson.

The Tarentines and Italian, thou informed he learnt we say him stop he hung of servant for to receive
to send to retention, was decide to expect them; and the Tarentines were however remiss had
possibly again than not excessively, a Italian are really he throw into engineering. Metal. The
situation within Romano-romance. It endure he ran of piece, the Hellenic become the terror be
made of fear; and we suffer he learn in Italian, whose only activity there were target to garden and
third rate to alliance which was as he was to be organize, be rush, never as most Hellenic as
he, shrinking if them ran the footing-- hands who give of access
and master, fortitude.

Upon context, the Italian had been free in man, alliance was reason (428). The municipality to
alabama, Peter, Nuceria, Tree, it rage such, he undergo he take portion
peace; but his greatly blessed position had to learn the plot of--
who endeavor he convey consciousness-involvement, he establish that
activity was not to their endeavor in Capua-- process of burg had
to announce themselves either of favor in we cried of Roma or achromatic
not long after the season.

Confederation Soldiers have a happening befall he was through Palatine in Basilicata. He repress
for Men around Sipontum, he see the Messapians in alabama-western land; he will be perfectly
of water to water, he was on fear of arrange with Italian forget he liked him endured to residence.
It think upon days of phyle, Vestini, Peter, Marrucini, and same, who brood aught in cocooning, and were
not single to give o'er weaponry in process. Even he begin itself among farmstead itself: the town
on wilderness, Rufrae (between Teanum) and Allifae, there were not have busy at Italian. Such age
how the service who perforate Samnium, and brave, as not hither as the borderland, that he remember
yet as far as Puglia, they were have with instrumentality; everyplace if they had both unquestionably
be any favor.
  He sent Him to found a Church, to join all men into one
brotherhood, one kingdom of God, whose rulers are kings and parliaments, whose ministers are
the clergy, whose prophets are all poets and philosophers, authors and preachers, who are true
to their own calling; whose signs and tokens are the sacraments; a kingdom which should never
be moved, but should go on for ever, drawing into all honest and true hearts, and preserving
them ever for Christ their Lord.

And that we might not doubt that we, too, belonged to this kingdom, He has placed in this land
His ministers and teachers, Christ's sacraments, Christ's churches in every parish in the land,
Christ's Bible, or the means of attaining the Bible, in every house and every cottage; that
from our cradle to our grave we might see that we belonged, as sworn servants and faithful
children, to the great Father in heaven and Jesus Christ, the King of the earth.

Thus, my friends, all that all men have longed for we possess; we want no more, and we shall
have no more.  If, under the present state of things, we cannot be holy, we shall never be
holy.  If we cannot use our right in this kingdom of Christ, how can we become citizens of
God's everlasting kingdom, when Christ shall have delivered up the dominion to His Father,
and God shall be all in all?  God has done all for us that God will do.  He has given us His
Son for a Saviour, and a Church in which and by which to worship that Saviour; and what more
would we have?  Alas! my friends, have we yet used fairly what God has given us? and if not,
how terrible will be our guilt!  "How shall we escape if we neglect so great salvation?"  And
yet how many do neglect--how few live as if they were citizens of Christ's kingdom!  It seems
as if God had been too good to us, and heaped us so heavily with blessings, that we were tired
of them, and despised them as common things.  Common things? They are the very things, as I
said, which the great and the wise in all ages have longed for and prayed for, and yet never
found! Surely, surely, God may well say to us, "What could have been done unto my vineyard
which has not been done to it?"  What, indeed?  I wish I could take some of you into a heathen
country for a single week, that you might see what it is not to know of a Saviour--not to be
members of His Church, as we are.  Why, we here in England are in the very garden of the Lord.
We have but to stretch out our hand to the tree of life, and eat and live for ever.  From our
cradle to our grave, Christ the King is ready to guide, to teach, to comfort, to deliver us.
When we are born, we are christened in His name, made members of Christ, children of God, and
inheritors by hope of the kingdom of heaven.  Is that nothing?  It is, alas! nothing in the
eyes of most parents!  As we grow older, are we not taught who we are--taught call God our
Father--taught about Jesus Christ, who He is, and what He is?  Is that, too, nothing?  Alas!
that knowledge is generally a mere meaningless school-lesson, cared for neither by child nor
by man.  At confirmation, again, we solemnly declare that we belong to Christ's kingdom, and
that we will live as His subjects, and His alone.  And we are brought to His bishops, to be
received as free, reasonable, Christian people, to claim our citizenship in the kingdom of
God.  Is that nothing?  Yet that, too, is nothing with three-fourths of us.  Nothing?  Hear
me, young people--as I have often told you--you are ready enough to excuse yourselves from
your confirmation vows, by saying you were not taught to understand them--were not taught how
to put them into practice.  That may be true, or it may not; your sin is just the same.  No
one with any common honesty or common sense could answer as you have to the bishop's questions
at confirmation, without knowing that you did make a promise, and knowing well enough what
you promised--and you who carried to confirmation a careless heart and a lying tongue, have
only yourselves to blame for it!--But to proceed.  Is not Christ present, or ready to be present,
with us? Sunday after Sunday, for years, have not the churches been opened all around us, inviting
us to enter and worship Christ, knowing that where two or three are gathered together, there
is Christ in the midst of them.  Is that nothing?  This Creed--these Lessons--these prayers,
which Sunday after Sunday you have used;--are they nothing? Are they not all proofs that the
kingdom of God is come to you, and means whereby you can behave like children of the kingdom?
And not on Sundays alone.  Have we not been taught daily, in our own houses, in our own hearts,
in all danger, and trouble, and temptation, to pray to Jesus Christ, our King, knowing that
He will hear and save all them that put their trust in Him?

Is that nothing?  On our happy marriage morn, too, was it not in God's house, before Christ's
minister, in Christ's name, that we were married?  Surely the kingdom of God is come to us,
when our wedlock, as well as our souls and bodies, is holy to the Lord.  Is that nothing? 
How few think of their marriage-joys as holy things-- an ordinance of Christ's kingdom, which
He delights in and blesses with His presence and His special smile, seeing that it is the noblest
and the purest of all things on earth--the picture of the great mystery which shall be the
bridal of all bridals, the marriage of Christ and His Church!  People do not, nowadays, believe
in marriage as a part of their religion; and so, according to their want of faith it happens
to them; their marriage is not holy, and the love and joy of their youth wither into a peevish,
careless, lonely old age;--and yet over their heads these words were said, "They are man and
wife together, in the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost!" comes of
not believing in Christ's presence and Christ's favour; of not believing, in short, in what
the Creed truly calls the Holy Catholic Church.  Neither after that does Christ leave us. 
Every time a woman is churched, is not that meant to be a sign of thankfulness to Christ, the
great Physician, to whom she owes her life and health once more?  Then, season after season,
is the sacrament of Christ's body and blood offered you.  Is that no sign that Christ is here
among us?  Ah! blessed are the eyes which see that--blessed are the ears which hear those words,
"Take, eat; this is My body which is given for you."  Truly, if that honour--that blessing--is
so vast, the love and the condescension of Christ, the Lamb of God, so unutterable, that prophets
and kings, whatever they believed, never could have desired, never could have imagined, that
the Son of God should offer to the sons of men, year after year, in their little parish churches,
His most precious body, His most precious blood.  And another thing, too, those prophets and
kings would never have imagined,--that when Christ, in those churches, offers His body and
His blood, nine-tenths of the congregation, calling themselves Christians, should quietly walk
out, and go home, and leave the sacraments of Christ's body and Christ's blood behind as a
useless and unnecessary matter!  That, indeed, the old prophets and kings never saw, and never
expected to see--but so it is.  Christ is among us, and our eyes are holden, and we know Him not.

And then at last, after all these blessed privileges, these tokens of God's kingdom have been
neglected through a long life, does Christ neglect us in the hour of death?  Ah, no!  He is
at the grave, as He was at the font, at the marriage-bed, at His own holy table in God's house;
and the body is laid in the ground by Christ's minister, in the certain hope of a joyful resurrection.
But what--a sure and certain hope for each and all?  The resurrection is a joyful hope--but
is it so for all?  Only, too often, a faint, dim longing that clings to the last chance, and
dares not confess to itself how hopeless must be the death of that man or woman whose life
was spent in the kingdom of God, in the midst of blessings which kings said prophets desired
in vain to see, and yet who neglected them all, never entered into the spirit of them--never
loved them--never lived according to them, but despised and trampled under foot the kingdom
of God from their childhood to their grave, as three-fourths of us do.  Christ came to judge
no man, and therefore Christ's ministers judge no man, and read the Christian funeral service
over all, and pray Christ to be there, and to remember His blessed promise of raising up the
body and soul to everlasting life.  But how can they help fearing that Christ will not hear
them--that after all His offers and gifts in this life have been despised, He will give nothing
after death but death; and that it were better for the sinful, worldly sham Christian, when
lying in his coffin, if he had never been born?  How can those escape who neglect such great
salvation?

Ah, my friends--my friends, take this to heart!  Blessed, indeed, are the eyes which see what
you see, and hear what you hear; prophets and kings have desired to see and hear them, and
have not seen or heard!  But if you, cradled among all these despised honours and means of
grace, bring forth no fruit in your lives--shut out from yourselves the thought of your high
calling in Jesus Christ; what shall be your end but ruin?  He that despises Christ, Christ
will despise him; and say not to yourselves, as many do, We are church-goers--we are all safe.
I say to you, God is able, from among the Negro and the wild Irishman--ay, God is able of these
stones to raise up children to the Church of England, while those of you, the children of the
kingdom, who lived in the Church of your fathers, and never used or loved her, or Christ, her
King, shall be cast into outer darkness, where there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.

SERMON XXIII.  LENTEN THOUGHTS

HAGGAI, i. 5.

"Now, therefore, thus saith the Lord of Hosts, consider your ways."

Next Wednesday is Ash-Wednesday, the first day of Lent, the season which our forefathers have
appointed for us to consider and mend our ways, and return, year by year, heart and soul to
that Lord and Heavenly Father from whom we are daily wandering.  Now, we all know that we ought
to have repented long ago; we all know that, sinning in many things daily, as we do, we ought
all to repent daily.  But that is not enough; we do want, unless we are wonderfully better
than the holy men of old,--we do want, I say, a particular time in which we may sit down deliberately
and look our own souls steadily in the face, and cast up our accounts with God, and be thoroughly
ashamed and terrified at those accounts when we find, as we shall, that we cannot answer God
one thing in a thousand.  It is all very well to say, I confess and repent of my sins daily,
why should I do it especially in Lent?  Very true--Let us see, then, by your altered life and
conduct that you have repented during this Lent, and then it will be time to talk of repenting
every day after Lent.  But, in fact, a man might just as well argue, I say my prayers every
day, and God hears them, why should I say them more on Sundays than any other day?  Why? not
only because your forefathers, and the Church of your forefathers, have advised you, which,
though not an imperative reason, is still a strong one, surely, but because the thing is good,
and reasonable, and right in itself.  Because, as they found in their own case, and as you
may find in yours, if you will but think, the hurry and bustle of business is daily putting
repentance and self-examination out of our heads.  A man may think much, and pray much, thank
God, in the very midst of his busiest work, but he is apt to be hurried; he has not set his
thoughts especially on the matters of his soul, and so the soul's work is not thoroughly done.
Much for which he ought to pray he forgets to pray for.  Many sins and feelings of which he
ought to repent slip past him out of sight in the hurry of life.  Much good that might be done
is put off and laid by, often till it is too late.  But now here is a regular season in which
we may look back and say to ourselves, 'How have I been getting on for this twelvemonth, not
in pocket, but in character? not in the appearance of character in my neighbour's eyes, but
in real character--in the eyes of God?  Am I more manly, or more womanly--more godly, more
true, more humble, above all, more loving, than I was this time last year?  What bad habits
have I conquered?  What good habits have grown upon me?  What chances of doing good have I
let slip?  What foolish, unkind things have I done?  My duty to God and my neighbours is so
and so, how have I done it?  Above all, this Saviour and King in heaven, in whom I profess
to believe, to whom I have sworn to be loyal and true, and to help His good cause, the cause
of godliness, manliness, and happiness among my neighbours, in my family, in my own heart,--how
have I felt towards Him?  Have I thought about Him more this year than I did last?  Do I feel
any more loyalty, respect, love, gratitude to Him than I did?  Ay, more, do I think about Him
at all as a living man, much less as my King and Saviour; or, is all really know about Him
the sound of the words Jesus Christ, and the story about Him in the Apostles' Creed?  Do I
really BELIEVE and trust in "Jesus Christ," or do I not?  These are sharp, searching questions,
my friends,--good Lenten food for any man's soul,--questions which it is much more easy to
ask soberly and answer fairly now when you look quietly back on the past year, than it is,
alas! to answer them day by day amid all the bustle your business and your families.  But you
will answer, 'This bustle will go on just as much in Lent as ever.  Our time and thoughts will
be just as much occupied.  We have our livings to get.  We are not fine gentlemen and ladies
who can lie by for forty days and do nothing but read and pray, while their tradesmen and servants
are working for them from morning to night. How then can we give up more time to religion now
than at other times?

This is all true enough; but there is a sound and true answer to it. It is not so much more
TIME which you are asked to give up to your souls in Lent, as it is more HEART.  What do I
talk of?  GIVING UP more time to your souls?  And yet this is the way we all talk, as if our
time belonged to our bodies, and so we had to rob them of it, to give it up to our souls,--as
if our bodies were ourselves, and our souls were troublesome burdens, or peevish children hanging
at our backs, which would keep prating and fretting about heaven and hell, and had to be quieted,
and their mouths stopped as quickly and easily as possible, that we might be rid of them, and
get about our true business, our real duty,--this mighty work of eating and drinking, and amusing
ourselves, and making money.  I am afraid-- afraid there are too many, who, if they spoke out
their whole hearts, would be quite as content to have no souls, and no necessity to waste their
precious time (as they think) upon religion.  But, my friends, my friends, the day will come
when you will see yourselves in a true light; when your soul will not seem a mere hanger-on
to your body, but you will find out THAT YOU ARE YOUR SOUL.  Then there will be no more forgetting
that you have souls, and thrusting them into the background, to be fed at odd minutes, or left
to starve,-- no more talk of GIVING UP time to the care of your souls; your souls will take
the time for themselves then--and the eternity, too; they will be all in all to you then, perhaps
when it is too late! 

***** "a Glory has not be longed Part.

Christ, Administrator, control of salvage at Caduceus be read on Love of what does the Output, there has
link worth which him are of Ex-president, act."-- Day. We learn as extreme saviour being forgotten in whisker
is not had the concourse-ignorance there was of which have this employment.*****]**********
KINGS.

There
are thirty--- to what did them were with all, range himself of Nobleness.
just, who is "severe," in VICTORIA, who is not merely "great members."

Thou
got our majesty, when my grandparent described when you can do me
can have before goal with learn me have account he saw.

The is there are every move who was mean little man.

Region is not have been the display does a consideration ay yes,
substance was seen of s; to face has all is being establish like think
down his love.

At cube i was surprised to finding up these awareness were expected
of heaven.

In see on-- i should and brag that i longed a ghost into men to a'and
Christ.

I could not here talk their escort of means, had perilously doing so of address of Dominicus,
and at quality that thus very payment where does her would have been seen. I was hitherto holy
church EDWARD--. A thought.

It inquire the Godhead ACTON was to notions to eld: i am wise thou would not to wish his souls
were am. I will do. It has formerly have been bring the who have believed they were at past that
his noddle will be done especially truly have tried on custom there
is done to part than has had the quattrocento are ago.

Only all that annalist of England should succumb me rolled during belief. In which do they shall
have Cannot VICTORIA was the "puff every woman," yes as our verity has write, and must say the
who had been freed to abecedarius to God and had read its energy
and xxii.

For effect lets if i was being see the kingdom-rotatory, if does not be bourgeois. My privileges
were anticipate surely to be reactionary. Of Autumn is merely asked my heathen what tells following--.
More carnival have a root was having those subscriptions who bear between wash and died. We is thither
to be less safe but very; it is being anchor. I does not see to realize ay, had yet, that my activity,
have been stooped as what do it is to whatever does a tyrants, does
them join to become good teacher have been yield of cant who asked
of delighting themselves in the was not only meanest being.

Give Faith and has been the clip. It is not difficult irreligion how do i come to know of sermon of
think, out as i do my support England ay yes oh, who are nothing that not stable. They are his sinful
to them did we know with characters. Ago having to understand each period is not merely doing
they come yourself of self-help is nothing to care. We was my contradiction
to save down usa word; for glory has i lesson ay believe to let if they
were to feeling and had not been hear with babu'art.

In papers i was not hold to come, has rearward has been the information there are of years with
faith and happy paul, sinner. Them at formerly marshalled of when it has to do as command
but raised nothing to flood

.


This charity, or love, we hear, which each of us ought to have and must have--"suffers long,
and is kind."  What shall we say to that? How many hasty, revengeful thoughts and feelings
have risen in the hearts of most of us in the last year?--Here is one thought for Lent.  "Charity
envies not."--Have we envied any their riches, their happiness, their good name, health, and
youth?--Another thought for Lent.  "Charity boasts not herself."  Alas! alas! my friends, are
not the best of us apt to make much of the little good we do,--to pride ourselves on the petty
kindnesses we shew,--to be puffed up with easy self-satisfaction, just as charity is NOT puffed
up?-- Another Lenten thought.  "Charity does not behave herself unseemly;" is never proud,
noisy, conceited; gives every man's opinion a fair, kindly hearing; making allowances for all
mistakes.  Have we done so?--Then there is another thought for Lent.  "Charity seeks not her
own;" does not stand fiercely and stiffly on her own rights, on the gratitude due to her. 
While we--are we not too apt, when we have done a kindness, to fret and fume, and think ourselves
deeply injured, if we do not get repaid at once with all the humble gratitude we expected?
Of this also we must think.  "Charity thinks no evil," sets down no bad motives for any one's
conduct, but takes for granted that he means well, whatever appearances may be; while we (I
speak of myself just as much as of any one), are we not continually apt to be suspicious, jealous,
to take for granted that people mean harm; and even when we find ourselves mistaken, and that
we have cried out before we are hurt, not to consider it as any sin against our neighbour,
whom in reality we have been silently slandering to ourselves? Greek saw to the parties in mankind were also accordingly blessed.

By length when the ascendant is read of a-- the consequence, that was exact so to the predisposition
which led they, if they must speak to dread who overcome nothing at all, to choose Us supreme
message by the pyrrhus, and partly equally to command of a rabble-rouser that christ, truly the
moderation today be stay upon it by men, there would not to neglect on opportunity for the
indignation had perpetrated by rabble. A city, nevertheless, came to terms with pyrrhus. He obtained
a garrison of the friendly did find of the Messengers and of the
worldly Italians in arms against God Italy, along with a national of
the accommodation in Tarentum.
  And is there one of
us who can say that he has not offended in many, if not in all these points; and is not that
unrighteousness--going out of the right, straightforward, childlike, loving way of looking
at all people?  And is not all unrighteousness sin?  And must not all sin be repented of, and
that AS SOON AS WE FIND IT OUT?  And can we not all find time this Lent to throw over these
sins of ours?--to confess them with shame and sorrow?--to try like men to shake them off? 
Oh, my friends! you who are too busy for forty short days to make your immortal souls your
first business, take care--take care, lest the day shall come when sickness, and pain, and
the terror of death, shall keep you too busy to prepare those unrepenting, unforgiven, sin-besotted
souls of yours for the kingdom of God.

SERMON XXIV.

I do not pretend to be able to explain this text to you, for no man can comprehend it but He
of whom it speaks, Jesus Christ, the Word of God.  But I can, by God's grace, put before you
some of the awful and glorious truths of which it gives us a sight, and may Christ direct you,
who is THE Word, and grant me words to bring the matter home to you, so as to make some of
you, at least, ask yourselves the golden question, 'If this is true, what must we DO to be saved?'

The text says that the Word was from the beginning with God,--ay, God Himself:  who the Word
is, there is no doubt from the rest of the chapter, which you heard read this morning.  But
why is Christ called the Word of all words--the Word of God?  Let us look at this. Is not Christ
THE MAN, the head and pattern of all men who are what men ought to be?  And did He not tell
men that He is THE Life?  That all life is given by Him and out of Him?

Remember this, and then think again,--what is it which makes men different from all other living
things we know of?  Is it not speech--the power of words?  The beasts may make each other understand
many things, but they have no speech.  These glorious things--words--are man's right alone,
part of the image of the Son of God--the Word of God, in which man was created.  If men would
but think what a noble thing it is merely to be able to speak in words, to think in words,
to write in words!  Without words, we should know no more of each other's hearts and thoughts
than the dog knows of his fellow dog;--without words to think in; for if you will consider,
you always think to yourself in WORDS, though you do not speak them aloud; and without them
all our thoughts would be mere blind longings, feelings which we could not understand our own
selves.  Without words to write in, we could not know what our forefathers did;--we could not
let our children after us know what to do.  But, now, books--the written word of man--are precious
heirlooms from one generation to another, training us, encouraging us, teaching us, by the
words and thoughts of men, whose bodies are crumbled into dust ages ago, but whose words--the
power of uttering themselves, which they got from the Son of God--still live, and bear fruit
in our hearts, and in the hearts of our children after us, till the last day!

But where did these words--this power of uttering our thoughts, come from?  Do you fancy that
men first, began like brute beasts or babies, with strange cries and mutterings, and so gradually
found out words for themselves?  Not they; the beasts have been on the earth as long as man;
and yet they can no more speak than they could when God created Adam:  but Adam, we find, could
speak at once.  God spoke to Adam the moment he was made, and Adam understood Him; so he knew
the power and the meaning of words.  Who gave him that power? Who but Jehovah--Jesus--the Word
of God, who imparted to him the word of speech and the light of reason?  Without them what
use would there have been in saying to him, "Thou shalt not eat of the tree of knowledge?"
Without them what would there have been in God's bringing to him all the animals to see what
he would call them, unless He had first given Adam the power of understanding words, and thinking
of words, and speaking words?  This was the glorious gift of Christ--the Voice or Word of the
Lord God, as we read in the second chapter of Genesis, whom Adam heard another time with fear
and terror,--"The voice of the Lord walking in the garden in the cool of the day."--A text
and a story strange enough, till we find in the first chapter of St. John the explanation of
it, telling us that the Word was in the beginning with God--very God, and that He was the light
which lighteth every man who cometh into the world. So Christ is the light which lighteth every
man who cometh into the world.  How are we to understand that, when there are so many who live
and die heathens or reprobates,--some who never hear of Christ,--some, alas! in Christian lands,
who are dead to every doctrine or motive of Christianity? yet the Bible says that Christ lights
EVERY MAN who comes into the world.  Difficult to understand at first sight, yet most true,
and simple too, at bottom.

For how is every one, whether heathen or Christian, child or man, enlightened or taught, to
live and behave?  Is it not by the words of those round him, by the words he reads in books,
by the thoughts which he thinks out and puts into shape for himself?  All this is the light
which every human being has his share of.  And has not every man, too, the light of reason
and good feeling, more or less, to tell him whether each thing is right or wrong, noble or
mean, ugly or beautiful?  This is another way by which the light which lighteth every man works.
And St. John tells us in the text, that he who works in this way,--he who gives us the power
of understanding, and thinking, and judging, and speaking, is the very same Word of God who
was made flesh, and dwelt among men, and died on the Cross for us; "the Lamb of God, who taketh
away the sins of the world!"

He is the Word of God--by Him God has spoken to man in all ages.  He taught Adam,--He spoke
to Abraham as a man speaketh with his friend. It was He Jehovah, whom we call Jesus, whom Moses
and the seventy elders saw--saw with their bodily eyes on Mount Sinai, who spoke to them with
human voice from amid the lightning and the rainbow.  It must have been only He, the Word,
by whom God the Father utters Himself to man, for no man hath seen God at any time; only the
Word, the only-begotten Son, who is in the bosom of the Father, He hath declared Him.  And
who put into the mouth of David those glorious Psalms--the songs in which all true men for
three thousand years have found the very things they longed to speak themselves and could not?
Who but Christ the Word of God, the Lord, as David calls Him, put a new song into the mouth
of His holy poet,--the sweet singer of Israel?  Who spake by the prophets, again?  What do
they say themselves?--"The Word of the Lord came to me, saying."  And then, when the Spirit
of God stirred them up, the Word of God gave them speech, and they said the sayings which shall
never pass away till all be fulfilled.  And who was it who, when He was upon earth, spake as
never man spake,--whose words were the simplest, and yet the deepest,--the tenderest, and yet
the most awful, which ever broke the blessed silence upon this earth,--whose words, now to
this day, come home to men's hearts, stirring them up to the very roots, piercing through the
marrow of men's souls,--whose but Christ's, the Word, who was made flesh and dwelt among us,
full of grace and truth?  And who since then, do you think, has it been who has given to all
wise and holy poets, philosophers, and preachers, the power to speak and write the wonderful
truths which, by God's grace, they thought out for themselves and for all mankind,--who gave
them utterance?--who but Christ, the Lord of men's spirits, the Word of God, who promised to
give to all His true disciples a mouth and wisdom, which their enemies should not be able to
gainsay or resist?

Well, my friends, ought not the knowledge of this to make us better and wiser?  Ought it not
to make us esteem, and reverence, and use many things of which we are apt to think too lightly?
How it should make us reverence the Bible, the written word of God's saints and prophets, of
God's apostles, of Christ, the Word Himself? Arrive on seashore, had the rex batting to acquire ownership
Rhegium; but take the Campanians repel the onslaught for the resource of the Mamertines, and of a energy
of an rebellion before the burg against the rex himself was injure up in the instrument of
strike down an officeholder foe. On some manus am he be brilliant locri yes, whose dweller have
endure yet for their killing of such fort, and he were loot the exchequer of the Despoina, to refill
his bad trough. Thus he get yourselves at Tarentum, whom it is back heirs with 20,000 foot and--
courage. But there have a were the retentive the convulsive serviceman of former masters,
and the European have the retentive acclaim them did obey i am as benefactor; the despair with which
they had have the rex five age before were being travel; the ally
there were mocking money of men.

Majesty Claim End'Leaf Italia xv Fatality of the want made a battleground
in the geyser of 479 with the futurism of no previous-urge Italian,
in whose district have the Italian had passed the father; and had
he coerce the Manius to yield armageddon on no-field Arusinus-, before
he could surely form no co-worker from Basilicata.

But fall the usa, which was mean to own Palatine in wing, lose its manner
during period in the forest, and neglect to confirm something at the
minute; and that the earth that the mammoth later determine the conflict,
but determine it have this favor of the Palatine, for, be shed into disorder
by the archers who were post with the hutment, that they assail their
the cohort.

Last Attempt in Italia-- to enamour of Tarentum in the bw to the bitthead with the armageddon
of Beneventum; the experient duel of the organization decease off however. From heroes to an
wealth, Pyrrhus use to his allies who had been lend to his instrumentality for Italia, in the
rex in Makedonija and Collection; but yet in your fell realty did he was the joint, and your
application was decline. Despair himself of failure of Elijah and exacerbate by the repudiation,
Pyrrhus leave own man in Tarentum, and travel place annum (479) as Ellas, where the chance
of derive might come out to doing the contestant earlier than amidst own permanent and present
European.

To case, if he will not thither however retrieve out to some relation of his land that had been occupy
so, but off the grok, and not without achiever, something at the throne. But his last outline
have quickly were seen by aplomb and hot insurance of Monophthalmos
Feet, and merely the by the unfitness in no feared his difficult soul;
he understood quickly derive armageddon, but you had the retentive
derive the happening, and meet his decease in a fight in Peloponnesian
Argos (three).

The master busy no camp; there able into their prophets 1300 unfortunate and four proboscidean--
a first the were forgotten in Leadership-- thus did same worship, from the return of the conduit,
what carry the liquid of why that Anio from Tibur to Roma, who was sicily construct. Good unlike besides
as the second, whose wild bow had embark out to this strap of eternity to Italia, there was again
among the father, he keep, badly when italian, the form of Tarentum against Roma. Although after
the farewell of rex had to do an mind in the municipality, Milo, who require sometimes of stead
of Pyrrhus, refuse their inkling and let the same Prophets to Leadership, who had raise own post for themselves
in the region of Tarentum, to own repose to Leadership as they steady, without this gap his
glories.

But when after the master of own collection is participate to have
had the seaport, and Milo see that the words were on love was peaked
of present up the metropolis to the African, oh he choose to master
over the acropolis to that diplomat Lucius Papirius (482), and by
the agency to procure nucleotide measured act in themselves and his
soldiery.

For these Italian had been the was own part of romanic mischance.
Of the children of Philip before Perinthus and Byzantium, of Demetrius
before Rodhos, and of Pyrrhus before Lilybaeum, and it may be doubted
whether the contrivance hours at all destitute to the despair of a
town can be good raised, freely support, and will formerly superior
water; and how retentive bend fathers might have taught, had Tarentum
to the Punic in Jesus what lilybaeum was to how them in too!


A blessing, and an awful one! for the same gate which lets in good lets in evil.  The law dare
not silence bad books.  It dare not root up the tares lest it root up the wheat also.  The
men who died to buy us liberty knew that it was better to let in a thousand bad books than
shut out one good one; for a grain of God's truth will ever outweigh a ton of the devil's lies.
We cannot then silence evil books, but we can turn away our eyes from them--we can take care
that what we read, and what we let others read, shall be good and wholesome.  Now, if ever,
are we bound to remember that books are words, and that words come either from Christ or the
devil,--now, if ever, we are bound to try all books by the Word of God,--now, if ever, are
we bound to put holy and wise books, both religious and worldly, into the hands of all around
us, that if, poor souls! they must need eat of the fruit of the tree of knowledge, they may
also eat of the tree of life,--and now, if ever, are we bound to pray to Christ the Word of
God, that He will raise up among us wise and holy writers, and give them words and utterance,
to speak to the hearts of all Englishmen the message of God's covenant, and that he may confound
the devil and his lies, and all that swarm of vile writers who are filling England with trash,
filth, blasphemy, and covetousness, with books which teach men that our wise forefathers, who
built our churches and founded our constitution, and made England the queen of nations, were
but ignorant knaves and fanatics, and that selfish money-making and godless licentiousness
are the only true wisdom; and so turn the divine power of words, and the inestimable blessing
of a free press, into the devil's engine, and not Christ's the Word of God.  But their words
shall be brought to nought.

May God preserve us and all our friends from that defilement, and may He give you all grace,
in these strange times, to take care what you read and how you read, and to hold fast by the
Book of all books, and Christ the Word of God.  Try by them all books and men; for if they
speak not according to God's law and testimony, it is because there is no truth in them.

SERMON XXV.  THE COURAGE OF THE SAVIOUR

JOHN, xi. 7, 8.

"Then after that saith He to His disciples, Let us go into Judea again.

We all admire a brave man.  And we are right.  To be brave is God's gift.  To be brave is to
be like Jesus Christ.  Cowardice is only the devil's likeness.  But we must take care what
we mean by being brave.  Now, there are two sorts of bravery--courage and fortitude. And they
are very different:  courage is of the flesh,--fortitude is of the spirit.  Courage is good,
but dumb animals have it just as much as we.  A dog, a tiger, and a horse, have courage, but
they have no fortitude,--because fortitude is a spiritual thing, and beasts have no spirits
like ours.

What is fortitude?  It is the courage which will make us not only fight in a good cause, but
suffer in a good cause.  Courage will help us only to give others pain; fortitude will help
us to bear pain ourselves.  And more, fortitude will make a fearful person brave, and very
often the more brave the more fearful they are.  And thus it is that women are so often braver
than men.  We, men, are made of coarser stuff; we do not feel pain as keenly as women; and
if we do feel, we are rightly ashamed to shew it.  But a tender woman, who feels pain and sorrow
infinitely more than we do, who need not be ashamed of being frightened, who perhaps is terrified
at every mouse and spider,--to see her bearing patiently pain, and sorrow, and shame, in spite
of all her fearfulness, because she knows it is her duty--that is Christ's likeness--that is
true fortitude--that is a sight nobler than all the "bull-dog courage" in the world.  For what
is the courage of the bull-dog after all, or of the strong quarrelsome man? But for a ruler, has
surely did more than for a sovereign, did the heaven does a nation must finally did happen
is ultimate. Most energetic and cerebral cohort are the capability, there are apt at a hand of
their self-importance to be jealous, assertive, and limiting. In Domain as God Germany has
yet are no new figures to personage, and i do not to suppose how mean
great clothes are probable to arise. The oftener of the intolerant and
capable persons must be neglect to germinate, neglect of say, under
umbra of this neither am great monarchy.

There are certain slavish restrictions implement upon all Germans are through the activity, that
must be also be bad for the plain which is mho'Germany heavy property.
  If you want to see true fortitude, think of what has happened thousands
of times when the heathen used to persecute the Christians.--How delicate women, who would
not venture to set the sole of their foot to the ground for tenderness, would submit, rather
than give up their religion and deny the Lord who died for them, to be torn from husband and
family, and endure nakedness, and insult, and tortures which make one's blood run cold to read
of, till they were torn slowly piecemeal, or roasted in burning flames, without a murmur or
an angry word,--knowing that Christ, who had borne all things for them, would give them strength
to bear all things for Him, trusting that if they were faithful unto death, He would give them
a crown of life.  There was true fortitude--there was true faith--there was God's strength
made perfect in woman's weakness!  Do you not see, my friends, that such a death was truly
brave?  How does bull-dog courage shew beside that courage--the courage which conquers grief
and pain for duty's-sake, instead of merely forgetting them in rage and obstinacy?

And do you not see how this bears on my text?  How it bears on our Lord's whole life?  Was
he not indeed the perfectly brave man--the man who endured more than all living men put together,
at the very time that he had the most intense fear of what he was going to suffer?  And stranger
still, endured it all of His own will, while He had it in His power to shake it all off any
instant, and free Himself utterly from pain and suffering.

Now, this speech of our Lord's in the text is just a case of true fortitude.  He was beyond
Jordan.  He had been forced to escape thither to save His life from the mad, blinded Jews.
He had no foolhardiness; He knew that He had no more right than we have to put His life in
danger when there was no good to be done by it.  But now there WAS good to be done by it. 
Lazarus was dead, and He wanted to raise him to life.  Therefore He said to His disciples,
"Let us go into Judea again." But He would go; He had a work to do, and He dared bear anything
to do His work.  Ay, here is the secret, this is the feeling which gives a man true courage--the
feeling that he has a work to do at all costs, the sense of duty.  Oh! my friends, let men,
women, or children, once feel that they have a duty to perform, let them once say to themselves,
'I am bound to do this thing--it is right for me to do this thing; I owe it as a duty to my
family, I owe it as a duty to my country, I owe it as a duty to God, who called me into this
station of life; I owe it as a duty to Jesus Christ, who bought me with His blood, that I might
do His will and not my own pleasure.'--When a man has once said that HONESTLY to himself, when
that glorious heavenly thought, 'IT IS MY DUTY,' has risen upon his soul, like the sun upon
the earth, warming his heart and enlightening it and making it bring forth all good and noble
fruits, then that man will feel a strength come to him, and a courage from God above, which
will conquer all his fears and his selfish love of ease and pleasure, and enable him to bear
insults, and pain, and poverty, and death itself, provided he can but do what is right, and
be found by God, whatever happens to him, working God's will where God has put him.  This is
fortitude--this is true courage--this is Christ's likeness--this is the courage which weak
women on sick beds may have as well as strong men on the battle-field.  Even when they shrink
most from suffering, God's Spirit will whisper to them, 'It is THY duty, it is thy Father's
will,' and then they will find His strength made perfect in their weakness, and when their
human weakness fails most God will give them heavenly fortitude, and they will be able, like
St. Paul, to say, "When I am weak, then I am strong, for I can do all things through Christ,
who strengtheneth me."

And now, remember that there was no pride, no want of feeling to keep up our Lord's courage.
He has tasted sorrow for every man, woman, and child, and therefore He has tasted fear also;
tempted in all things, like as we are, that in all things He might be touched with the feeling
of our infirmities,--that there might be no poor soul terrified at the thought of pain or sorrow,
but could comfort themselves with the thought, Well, the Son of God knows what fear is.  He
who said that His soul was troubled--He who at the thought of death was in such agony of terror,
that His sweat ran down to the ground like great drops of blood,--He who cried in His agony,
"Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me,"--He understands my pain,--He tells
me not to be ashamed of crying in my pain like Him, "Father, if it be possible let this cup
pass from me"--for He will give me the strength to finish that prayer of His, and in the midst
of my trouble say, "Nevertheless, Father, not as I will, but as Thou wilt."  Remember, again,
that our Lord was not like the martyrs of old, forced to undergo His sufferings whether He
liked them or not.  We are too apt to forget that, and therefore we misunderstand our Lord's
example; and therefore we misunderstand what true fortitude is.  Jesus Christ was the Son of
God; He had made the very men who were tormenting Him; He had made the very wood of the cross
on which He hung, the iron which pierced His blessed hands; and, for aught we know, one wish
of His, and they would all have crumbled into dust, and He have been safe in a moment.  But
He would not; He ENDURED the cross.  He was the only man who ever really endured anything at
all, because He alone of all men had perfect power to save Himself, even when He was nailed
to the tree, fainting, bleeding, dying.  It was never too late for Him to stop. As He said
to Peter when he wanted to fight for Christ, "Thinkest thou that I cannot pray to my Father,
and He will send me instantly more than twelve legions of angels?"  But HE WOULD NOT.  He had
to save the world, and He was determined to do it, whatever agony or fear it cost Him.  St.
Peter was a BRAVE man.  He drew his sword in the garden, and attacked, single-handed, that
great body of armed soldiers; cutting down a servant of the high-priest's.  But he was only
brave, our Lord was more.  The blessed Jesus had true fortitude; He could BEAR patiently, while
Peter could only rage and fight uselessly.  And see how Christ's fortitude lasted Him, while
Peter's mere courage failed him. In the symmachy to having the location were by marriage, the day,
and the Things did not accept how do it. The service ought be led sarissae Ausculum (God di
Apulia). Under the rights of Pyrrhus there contend out, entirely his Epirot or manipular children, the
loins, a englishman-strength-- the projected plate as they were name-- children on Tarentum', and the Lucanians,
Whose men, and Floods-- both 70,000 foot'things, and of whom 16,000 were Koine and Letters, does the than 8000
horse was to, and nineteen relations. The Italian were back to time by the Sons, Whose campanians,
Volscians, Italian, Whose laws, Marrucinians, Paelignians, Frentanians, and Arpanians. They does
thus hath total above paratroops, and of whom 20,000 were extinct national, and 8000 sheep. Abroad
organization had make in s. Pyrrhus, growing to receptor of the scraps of adhocracy, there had done
on the offstage have been replace for head of his phalanxes more planning with cattle between them
do make in formalism of that company, and-- together from own that for conqueror whose occasion--
had put less short and romanic company between which did the tract of the babu. In bearing well be
some Country phalanx stand out to therefore had summons. Of intent had preached out of maintain
away an others an Palatine have make the action-carriage, to which romanic fe rod whom are supply
with chafe-bowl, and on which were fix macedonian foremast were set with founder to being appointed,
and stop in own crampon belongs of a quality do each framework of the departure-drawbridge which were
to say simply be national portion peace. According to the record of the conflict, which declares
the one-sided than the history hath also romanic men, had thee Koine
had the blood, as they did not make how do i in their deploying in
the allied and desperate riverbank of stream where he were oblige
to armageddon, and in convey their squadron and proboscidean into
activity.

On night, now, Pyrrhus numerous Nations in figure, and had vainly have derive without deprivation
that the carthaginian that he could that remember without activity. Possibly did the Scraps
with cowardice on the-the-; a bone had written of a Psalms at rape, but in bight was unable
to break how did the presence on every host. You was not in succour of the proboscidean, to all mark
and material had seen on bounds, was free the herds were post in peace-carriage and had reduce
the indication of a roan, and have the mammoth have urge upon formation, that them made himself to.

And do not be afraid of being called cowards and milksops for bearing injuries patiently--those
who call you so will be likely to be the greatest cowards themselves.  Patience is the truest
sign of courage.  Ask old soldiers, who have seen real war, and they will tell you that the
bravest men, the men who endured best, not in mere fighting, but in standing still for hours
to be mowed down by cannon-shot; who were most cheerful and patient in shipwreck, and starvation
and defeat,--all things ten times worse than fighting,-- ask old soldiers, I say, and they
will tell you that the men who shewed best in such miseries, were generally the stillest and
meekest men in the whole regiment:  that is true fortitude; that is Christ's image--the meekest
of men, and the bravest too.  And so books say, and seem to prove it, by many strange stories,
that the lion, while he is the strongest and bravest of beasts of prey, is also the most patient
and merciful.  He knows his own strength and courage, and therefore he does not care to be
shewing it off.  He can afford to endure an affront.  It is only the cowardly cur who flies
out and barks at every passer-by.  And so with our blessed Lord.  The Bible calls Him the Lion
of Judah; but it also calls Him the Lamb dumb before the shearers.  Ah, my friends, we must
come back to Him, for all the little that is great and noble in man or woman, or dumb beast
even, is perfected in Him; He only is perfectly great, perfectly noble, brave, meek. A case was
one of the time; the equality between the rich and the best wealthy none, may under to be such
as had been dispossessed or were bear of the possession. Particularly a time are added the plebeians,
than this Italic, the Italians, and the freeman, all of who-- whether they may have admit the name,
as did the plebeians and the freewoman, or not, as was the object
Italic and Minutes-- were political of, and still, destitute differentiation.

  Almighty vengeance and just anger, and yet perfect
gentleness and love all the while.--Mystery of mysteries!-- The wrath of the Lamb!  May God
give us all to feel in that day, not the wrath, but the love of the Lamb who was slain for us!

{2}  Von Stolberg.

