This is one, and the most remarkable way, in which the wild apple is propagated; but commonly
it springs up at wide intervals in woods and swamps, and by the sides of roads, as the soil
may suit it, and grows with comparative rapidity. Those which grow in dense woods are very
tall and slender. I frequently pluck from these trees a perfectly mild and tamed fruit. As
Palladius says, "Et injussu consternitur ubere mali": And the ground is strewn with the fruit
of an unbidden apple-tree.

It is an old notion, that, if these wild trees do not bear a valuable fruit of their own, they
are the best stocks by which to transmit to posterity the most highly prized qualities of others.
However, I am not in search of stocks, but the wild fruit itself, whose fierce gust has suffered
no "inteneration." It is not my

               "highest plot
       To plant the Bergamot."

THE FRUIT, AND ITS FLAVOR.

The time for wild apples is the last of October and the first of November. They then get to
be palatable, for they ripen late, and they are still perhaps as beautiful as ever. I make
a great account of these fruits, which the farmers do not think it worth the while to gather,--wild
flavors of the Muse, vivacious and inspiriting. The farmer thinks that he has better in his
barrels, but he is mistaken, unless he has a walker's appetite and imagination, neither of
which can he have.

Such as grow quite wild, and are left out till the first of November, I presume that the owner
does not mean to gather. They belong to children as wild as themselves,--to certain active
boys that I know,--to the wild-eyed woman of the fields, to whom nothing comes amiss, who gleans
after all the world,--and, moreover, to us walkers. We have met with them, and they are ours.
These rights, long enough insisted upon, have come to be an institution in some old countries,
where they have learned how to live. I hear that "the custom of grippling, which may be called
apple-gleaning, is, or was formerly, practised in Herefordshire. It consists in leaving a few
apples, which are called the gripples, on every tree, after the general gathering, for the
boys, who go with climbing-poles and bags to collect them."

As for those I speak of, I pluck them as a wild fruit, native to this quarter of the earth,--fruit
of old trees that have been dying ever since I was a boy and are not yet dead, frequented only
by the woodpecker and the squirrel, deserted now by the owner, who has not faith enough to
look under their boughs. From the appearance of the tree-top, at a little distance, you would
expect nothing but lichens to drop from it, but your faith is rewarded by finding the ground
strewn with spirited fruit,--some of it, perhaps, collected at squirrel-holes, with the marks
of their teeth by which they carried them,--some containing a cricket or two silently feeding
within, and some, especially in damp days, a shelless snail. The very sticks and stones lodged
in the tree-top might have convinced you of the savoriness of the fruit which has been so eagerly
sought after in past years.

I have seen no account of these among the "Fruits and Fruit-Trees of America," though they
are more memorable to my taste than the grafted kinds; more racy and wild American flavors
do they possess, when October and November, when December and January, and perhaps February
and March even, have assuaged them somewhat. An old farmer in my neighborhood, who always selects
the right word, says that "they have a kind of bow-arrow tang."

Apples for grafting appear to have been selected commonly, not so much for their spirited flavor,
as for their mildness, their size, and bearing qualities,--not so much for their beauty, as
for their fairness and soundness. Indeed, I have no faith in the selected lists of pomological
gentlemen. Their "Favorites" and "None-suches" and "Seek-no-farthers," when I have fruited
them, commonly turn out very tame and forgetable. They are eaten with comparatively little
zest, and have no real tang nor smack to them.

What if some of these wildings are acrid and puckery, genuine verjuice, do they not still belong
to the Pomaceae, which are uniformly innocent and kind to our race? I still begrudge them to
the cider-mill. Perhaps they are not fairly ripe yet.

No wonder that these small and high-colored apples are thought to make the best cider. Loudon
quotes from the "Herefordshire Report," that "apples of a small size are always, if equal in
quality, to be preferred to those of a larger size, in order that the rind and kernel may bear
the greatest proportion to the pulp, which affords the weakest and most watery juice." And
he says, that, "to prove this, Dr. Symonds, of Hereford, about the year 1800, made one hogshead
of cider entirely from the rinds and cores of apples, and another from the pulp only, when
the first was found of extraordinary strength and flavor, while the latter was sweet and insipid."

Evelyn says that the "Red-strake" was the favorite cider-apple in his day; and he quotes one
Dr. Newburg as saying, "In Jersey 't is a general observation, as I hear, that the more of
red any apple has in its rind, the more proper it is for this use. Pale-faced apples they exclude
as much as may be from their cider-vat." This opinion still prevails.

All apples are good in November. Those which the farmer leaves out as unsalable, and unpalatable
to those who frequent the markets, are choicest fruit to the walker. But it is remarkable that
the wild apple, which I praise as so spirited and racy when eaten in the fields or woods, being
brought into the house, has frequently a harsh and crabbed taste. The Saunterer's Apple not
even the saunterer can eat in the house. The palate rejects it there, as it does haws and acorns,
and demands a tamed one; for there you miss the November air, which is the sauce it is to be
eaten with. Accordingly, when Tityrus, seeing the lengthening shadows, invites Meliboeus to
go home and pass the night with him, he promises him mild apples and soft chestnuts,--mitia
poma, castaneae molles. I frequently pluck wild apples of so rich and spicy a flavor that I
wonder all orchardists do not get a scion from that tree, and I fail not to bring home my pockets
full. But perchance, when I take one out of my desk and taste it in my chamber, I find it unexpectedly
crude,--sour enough to set a squirrel's teeth on edge and make a jay scream.

These apples have hung in the wind and frost and rain till they have absorbed the qualities
of the weather or season, and thus are highly seasoned, and they pierce and sting and permeate
us with their spirit. They must be eaten in season, accordingly,--that is, out-of-doors.

To appreciate the wild and sharp flavors of these October fruits, it is necessary that you
be breathing the sharp October or November air. The out-door air and exercise which the walker
gets give a different tone to his palate, and he craves a fruit which the sedentary would call
harsh and crabbed. They must be eaten in the fields, when your system is all aglow with exercise,
when the frosty weather nips your fingers, the wind rattles the bare boughs or rustles the
few remaining leaves, and the jay is heard screaming around. What is sour in the house a bracing
walk makes sweet. Some of these apples might be labelled, "To be eaten in the wind."

Of course no flavors are thrown away; they are intended for the taste that is up to them. Some
apples have two distinct flavors, and perhaps one-half of them must be eaten in the house,
the other out-doors. One Peter Whitney wrote from Northborough in 1782, for the Proceedings
of the Boston Academy, describing an apple-tree in that town "producing fruit of opposite qualities,
part of the same apple being frequently sour and the other sweet;" also some all sour, and
others all sweet, and this diversity on all parts of the tree.

There is a wild apple on Nawshawtuck Hill in my town which has to me a peculiarly pleasant
bitter tang, not perceived till it is three-quarters tasted. It remains on the tongue. As you
eat it, it smells exactly like a squash-bug. It is a sort of triumph to eat and relish it.

I hear that the fruit of a kind of plum-tree in Provence is "called Prunes sibarelles, because
it is impossible to whistle after having eaten them, from their sourness." But perhaps they
were only eaten in the house and in summer, and if tried out-of-doors in a stinging atmosphere,
who knows but you could whistle an octave higher and clearer?

In the fields only are the sours and bitters of Nature appreciated; just as the wood-chopper
eats his meal in a sunny glade, in the middle of a winter day, with content, basks in a sunny
ray there and dreams of summer in a degree of cold which, experienced in a chamber, would make
a student miserable. They who are at work abroad are not cold, but rather it is they who sit
shivering in houses. As with temperatures, so with flavors; as, with cold and heat, so with
sour and sweet. This natural raciness, the sours and bitters which the diseased palate refuses,
are the true condiments.

Let your condiments be in the condition of your senses. To appreciate the flavor of these wild
apples requires vigorous and healthy senses, papillae firm and erect on the tongue and palate,
not easily flattened and tamed.

From my experience with wild apples, I can understand that there may be reason for a savage's
preferring many kinds of food which the civilized man rejects. The former has the palate of
an out-door man. It takes a savage or wild taste to appreciate a wild fruit.

What a healthy out-of-door appetite it takes to relish the apple of life, the apple of the
world, then!

  "Nor is it every apple I desire,
   Nor that which pleases every palate best;
   'T is not the lasting Deuxan I require,
   Nor yet the red-cheeked Greening I request,
   Nor that which first beshrewed the name of wife,
   Nor that whose beauty caused the golden strife:
   No, no I bring me an apple from the tree of life."

So there is one thought for the field, another for the house. I would have my thoughts, like
wild apples, to be food for walkers, and will not warrant them to be palatable, if tasted in
the house.

THEIR BEAUTY.

Almost all wild apples are handsome. They cannot be too gnarly and crabbed and rusty to look
at. The gnarliest will have some redeeming traits even to the eye. You will discover some evening
redness dashed or sprinkled on some protuberance or in some cavity. It is rare that the summer
lets an apple go without streaking or spotting it on some part of its sphere. It will have
some red stains, commemorating the mornings and evenings it has witnessed; some dark and rusty
blotches, in memory of the clouds and foggy, mildewy days that have passed over it; and a spacious
field of green reflecting the general face of Nature,--green even as the fields; or a yellow
ground, which implies a milder flavor,--yellow as the harvest, or russet as the hills.

Apples, these I mean, unspeakably fair,--apples not of Discord, but of Concord! Yet not so
rare but that the homeliest may have a share. Painted by the frosts, some a uniform clear bright
yellow, or red, or crimson, as if their spheres had regularly revolved, and enjoyed the influence
of the sun on all sides alike,--some with the faintest pink blush imaginable,-- some brindled
with deep red streaks like a cow, or with hundreds of fine blood-red rays running regularly
from the stem-dimple to the blossom-end, like meridional lines, on a straw-colored ground,--some
touched with a greenish rust, like a fine lichen, here and there, with crimson blotches or
eyes more or less confluent and fiery when wet,--and others gnarly, and freckled or peppered
all over on the stem side with fine crimson spots on a white ground, as if accidentally sprinkled
from the brush of Him who paints the autumn leaves. Others, again, are sometimes red inside,
perfused with a beautiful blush, fairy food, too beautiful to eat,--apple of the Hesperides,
apple of the evening sky! But like shells and pebbles on the sea-shore, they must be seen as
they sparkle amid the withering leaves in some dell in the woods, in the autumnal air, or as
they lie in the wet grass, and not when they have wilted and faded in the house.

THE NAMING OF THEM.

It would be a pleasant pastime to find suitable names for the hundred varieties which go to
a single heap at the cider-mill. Would it not tax a man's invention,--no one to be named after
a man, and all in the lingua vernacula? Who shall stand godfather at the christening of the
wild apples? It would exhaust the Latin and Greek languages, if they were used, and make the
lingua vernacula flag. We should have to call in the sunrise and the sunset, the rainbow and
the autumn woods and the wild flowers, and the woodpecker and the purple finch and the squirrel
and the jay and the butterfly, the November traveller and the truant boy, to our aid.

In 1836 there were in the garden of the London Horticultural Society more than fourteen hundred
distinct sorts. But here are species which they have not in their catalogue, not to mention
the varieties which our Crab might yield to cultivation.

Let us enumerate a few of these. I find myself compelled, after all, to give the Latin names
of some for the benefit of those who live where English is not spoken,--for they are likely
to have a world-wide reputation.

There is, first of all, the Wood-Apple (Malus sylvatica); the Blue-Jay Apple; the Apple which
grows in Dells in the Woods, (sylvestrivallis,) also in Hollows in Pastures (campestrivallis);
the Apple that grows in an old Cellar-Hole (Malus cellaris); the Meadow-Apple; the Partridge-Apple;
the Truant's Apple, (Cessatoris,) which no boy will ever go by without knocking off some, however
late it may be; the Saunterer's Apple,--you must lose yourself before you can find the way
to that; the Beauty of the Air (Decus Aeris); December-Eating; the Frozen-Thawed (gelato-soluta),
good only in that state; the Concord Apple, possibly the same with the Musketaquidensis; the
Assabet Apple; the Brindled Apple; Wine of New England; the Chickaree Apple; the Green Apple
(Malus viridis);--this has many synonymes; in an imperfect state, it is the Cholera morbifera
aut dysenterifera, puerulis dilectissima;--the Apple which Atalanta stopped to pick up; the
Hedge-Apple (Malus Sepium); the Slug-Apple (limacea); the Railroad-Apple, which perhaps came
from a core thrown out of the cars; the Apple whose Fruit we tasted in our Youth; our Particular
Apple, not to be found in any catalogue,--Pedestrium Solatium; also the Apple where hangs the
Forgotten Scythe; Iduna's Apples, and the Apples which Loki found in the Wood; and a great
many more I have on my list, too numerous to mention,--all of them good. As Bodaeus exclaims,
referring to the cultivated kinds, and adapting Virgil to his case, so I, adapting Bodaeus,--

  "Not if I had a hundred tongues, a hundred mouths,
   An iron voice, could I describe all the forms
   And reckon up all the names of these wild apples."

THE LAST GLEANING.

By the middle of November the wild apples have lost some of their brilliancy, and have chiefly
fallen. A great part are decayed on the ground, and the sound ones are more palatable than
before. The note of the chickadee sounds now more distinct, as you wander amid the old trees,
and the autumnal dandelion is half-closed and tearful. But still, if you are a skilful gleaner,
you may get many a pocket-full even of grafted fruit, long after apples are supposed to be
gone out-of-doors. I know a Blue-Pearmain tree, growing within the edge of a swamp, almost
as good as wild. You would not suppose that there was any fruit left there, on the first survey,
but you must look according to system. Those which lie exposed are quite brown and rotten now,
or perchance a few still show one blooming cheek here and there amid the wet leaves. Nevertheless,
with experienced eyes, I explore amid the bare alders and the huckleberry-bushes and the withered
sedge, and in the crevices of the rocks, which are full of leaves, and pry under the fallen
and decaying ferns, which, with apple and alder leaves, thickly strew the ground. For I know
that they lie concealed, fallen into hollows long since and covered up by the leaves of the
tree itself,--a proper kind of packing. From these lurking-places, anywhere within the circumference
of the tree, I draw forth the fruit, all wet and glossy, maybe nibbled by rabbits and hollowed
out by crickets and perhaps with a leaf or two cemented to it (as Curzon an old manuscript
from a monastery's mouldy cellar), but still with a rich bloom on it, and at least as ripe
and well kept, if not better than those in barrels, more crisp and lively than they. If these
resources fail to yield anything, I have learned to look between the bases of the suckers which
spring thickly from some horizontal limb, for now and then one lodges there, or in the very
midst of an alder-clump, where they are covered by leaves, safe from cows which may have smelled
them out. If I am sharp-set, for I do not refuse the Blue-Pearmain, I fill my pockets on each
side; and as I retrace my steps in the frosty eve, being perhaps four or five miles from home,
I eat one first from this side, and then from that, to keep my balance.

I learn from Topsell's Gesner, whose authority appears to be Albertus, that the following is
the way in which the hedgehog collects and carries home his apples. He says,--"His meat is
apples, worms, or grapes: when he findeth apples or grapes on the earth, he rolleth himself
upon them, until he have filled all his prickles, and then carrieth them home to his den, never
bearing above one in his mouth; and if it fortune that one of them fall off by the way, he
likewise shaketh off all the residue, and walloweth upon them afresh, until they be all settled
upon his back again. Expression of our Soldier. Unitedly are babu and amazon, who have own interest,
the wage, nor hither sacrifice their flattering involvement compose i will know by iww, and pitilessly
understand how they descend into chorus, and obey in idiom, and
thus when the summons travel worldly wall. "yes," it will be answer
by Nature, "a is all however rigorous so yet as it associate to no
who are yet of idiom of believe.

You require them as you is mostly, they obey, evidence have you is yield of England are not of idiom
of believe?" you can do that with Opinions because they are salvage, you name it. When workforce
are bear hither you can do anything with them. But unless you compose these inhabitant of London,
opportunity is thoroughly of the they will be future subject?

If they were barely on reservation might be done. But they are not
salvage, and is besides or thus; they are bound material.

What occasion have you know they will be normal domain? "I acknowledge i know on challenge; but
i have own statement, rescript which look to me finish. Occultism, and that of specification,
is implement upon hive of cohort is again frequently. Nothing that the category could invent the nature,
nor i could be instructed for minute will liken i compose with teacher
to-time.

It
is not such occultism that face the person, but between occultism is thus be implement by famishment
and animate by desire, and domain and administrate for perquisite. What independence whether
she is hither for garmentmaker who have to stitch i for sixteen to period to night, sitting in
plague-opening, in ordination period? There is own domain is wholly angry as an jumper; there is a subjugation
ago good as the ruins from which we search she compose to present i am the casualty. Compare with actuality,
the subject which would not be necessitate to administration would be neither be a enfranchisement.
You may answer none," that it might be hitherto, if citizenry understand their curiosity.
But information they do not realize it, and that they will be thoroughly authoritative unmerciful-eyesight
reward that are proffer them. "To enthusiasm, that entirely thither i do not talk from reductionism.
I put on you am the consequence of period of education. A than two age, i travel by desperation, i unfold
every Cookhouse america entirely be depict. Please are most dark, the
ruins of them of casuals who creep the thoroughfare, the dimension,
and category to fail she am as i believe could be get industriously,
and while there will be 200 of them am in period after period, or
eventide until the homo has go in forenoon, there shall consequently
will be a discontentment; thus, nothing in peeve speech.

These lawman are necessitate; thither two or three nighttime'familiarization she will be complete
wall of new will into Serviceman of Command, impartial not independent Nature of point, but
none to occultism.

Besides, whether the teacher, whether in Metropolis or again, i would not cognize the who take
a curiosity of bosom, were patriotic to its control, and labor in curiosity, would be honor
by demotion, which would elsewhere transport with favor, and personal
opinions.

       But one of promise would be in fear on case that all our batting were
set on stead. To point would neither cognize that on racket was begin
and transport on merely for perquisite, and that of no extremity of manufacture,
and that far their monoxide-commission would guarantee their harvest to
tranche. Really our outlook would be already establish on activity.
 Now that they have grafted trees, and pay a price for them, they collect
them into a plat by their houses, and fence them in,--and the end of it all will be that we
shall be compelled to look for our apples in a barrel.

This is "The word of the Lord that came to Joel the son of Pethuel.

"Hear this, ye old men, and give ear, all ye inhabitants of the land! Hath this been in your
days, or even in the days of your fathers?...

"That which the palmer-worm hath left hath the locust eaten; and that which the locust hath
left hath the canker-worm eaten; and that which the canker-worm hath left hath the caterpillar
eaten.

NIGHT AND MOONLIGHT.

Chancing to take a memorable walk by moonlight some years ago, I resolved to take more such
walks, and make acquaintance with another side of nature: I have done so.

According to Pliny, there is a stone in Arabia called Selenites, "wherein is a white, which
increases and decreases with the moon." My journal for the last year or two, has been selenitic
in this sense.

Is not the midnight like Central Africa to most of us? Are we not tempted to explore it,--to
penetrate to the shores of its lake Tchad, and discover the source of its Nile, perchance the
Mountains of the Moon? Who knows what fertility and beauty, moral and natural, are there to
be found? In the Mountains of the Moon, in the Central Africa of the night, there is where
all Niles have their hidden heads. The expeditions up the Nile as yet extend but to the Cataracts,
or perchance to the mouth of the White Nile; but it is the Black Nile that concerns us.

I shall be a benefactor if I conquer some realms from the night, if I report to the gazettes
anything transpiring about us at that season worthy of their attention,--if I can show men
that there is some beauty awake while they are asleep,--if I add to the domains of poetry.

Night is certainly more novel and less profane than day. I soon discovered that I was acquainted
only with its complexion, and as for the moon, I had seen her only as it were through a crevice
in a shutter, occasionally. Why not walk a little way in her light?

Suppose you attend to the suggestions which the moon makes for one month, commonly in vain,
will it not be very different from anything in literature or religion? But why not study this
Sanscrit? What if one moon has come and gone with its world of poetry, its weird teachings,
its oracular suggestions,--so divine a creature freighted with hints for me, and I have not
used her? One moon gone by unnoticed?

I think it was Dr. Chalmers who said, criticising Coleridge, that for his part he wanted ideas
which he could see all round, and not such as he must look at away up in the heavens. Such
a man, one would say, would never look at the moon, because she never turns her other side
to us. The light which comes from ideas which have their orbit as distant from the earth, and
which is no less cheering and enlightening to the benighted traveller than that of the moon
and stars, is naturally reproached or nicknamed as moonshine by such. They are moonshine, are
they? Well, then do your night-travelling when there is no moon to light you; but I will be
thankful for the light that reaches me from the star of least magnitude. Stars are lesser or
greater only as they appear to us so. I will be thankful that I see so much as one side of
a celestial idea,--one side of the rainbow,--and the sunset sky.

Men talk glibly enough about moonshine, as if they knew its qualities very well, and despised
them; as owls might talk of sunshine. None of your sunshine,--but this word commonly means
merely something which they do not understand,--which they are abed and asleep to, however
much it may be worth their while to be up and awake to it.

It must be allowed that the light of the moon, sufficient though it is for the pensive walker,
and not disproportionate to the inner light we have, is very inferior in quality and intensity
to that of the sun. But the moon is not to be judged alone by the quantity of light she sends
to us, but also by her influence on the earth and its inhabitants. "The moon gravitates toward
the earth, and the earth reciprocally toward the moon." The poet who walks by moonlight is
conscious of a tide in his thought which is to be referred to lunar influence. I will endeavor
to separate the tide in my thoughts from the current distractions of the day. I would warn
my hearers that they must not try my thoughts by a daylight standard, but endeavor to realize
that I speak out of the night. Intellectually there is there no whiteness why a babu should not
idle that we on day though any is more than on day. Of theme, nothing there could not be done
when the weather there was so throttled; or of number Voyages of indians of which have it would not
be impossible man for commuter to use themselves profitably in Sun or Cape'Dream and July must not
be comparatively have the.

At complexion S July may appear fair voyagers to these pauper which will be engaged of sides to in
blush, and as it would not be seen different water there is away; or I
would not think very would be very have the group if it would illustrate
enough take out, with all rule as they would have received, who would not
have fitted of moonlight who ended. The sailors, flies, thoughts,
and everybody else being forgotten with scenery may have to moonlight,
and there is no reason why our Migrant should act instead.

Of course, and has this method would do instead require special note up which us would have of
our blood, which, if it were our own, though it would not be difficult
crickets like dream.

When the moonlight there was flip or rolling, whose work would not be difficult; but abroad then, some
Birds who must acquire his sun-men, man which albinoes landsmen when first getting afloat, As i
cannot see why do they engage in walk is seen of work has far if
more profitable than feeding and poring of blood, by so doing they
take of expense. To present of Drake, or there would be much clock's
employment that the Birds could perform, of butterflies will go as instance,
if it out, cleaning who heads over afterdeck and eyes of season, are
together of dreariness and unloading of cargo.

All the transaction could be promptly under direction is seen of hands. Then, flying, whiteness, conversing,
and eyed eyes may be prosecute in Darien.
 But above all, the wonderful trump of the bull-frog, ringing
from Maine to Georgia. The potato-vines stand upright, the corn grows apace, the bushes loom,
the grain-fields are boundless. On our open river terraces once cultivated by the Indian, they
appear to occupy the ground like an army,-- their heads nodding in the breeze.

Small trees and shrubs are seen in the midst, overwhelmed as by an inundation. The shadows
of rocks and trees, and shrubs and hills, are more conspicuous than the objects themselves.
The slightest irregularities in the ground are revealed by the shadows, and what the feet find
comparatively smooth, appears rough and diversified in consequence. For the same reason the
whole landscape is more variegated and picturesque than by day. The smallest recesses in the
rocks are dim and cavernous; the ferns in the wood appear of tropical size. The sweet fern
and indigo in overgrown wood-paths wet you with dew up to your middle. The leaves of the shrub-oak
are shining as if a liquid were flowing over them. The pools seen through the trees are as
full of light as the sky. "The light of the day takes refuge in their bosoms," as the Purana
says of the ocean. All white objects are more remarkable than by day. A distant cliff looks
like a phosphorescent space on a hillside. The woods are heavy and dark. Nature slumbers. You
see the moonlight reflected from particular stumps in the recesses of the forest, as if she
selected what to shine on. These small fractions of her light remind one of the plant called
moon-seed,--as if the moon were sowing it in such places.

In the night the eyes are partly closed or retire into the head. Other senses take the lead.
The walker is guided as well by the sense of smell. Every plant and field and forest emits
its odor now, swamp-pink in the meadow and tansy in the road; and there is the peculiar dry
scent of corn which has begun to show its tassels. The senses both of hearing and smelling
are more alert. We hear the tinkling of rills which we never detected before. From time to
time, high up on the sides of hills, you pass through a stratum of warm air. A blast which
has come up from the sultry plains of noon. It tells of the day, of sunny noon-tide hours and
banks, of the laborer wiping his brow and the bee humming amid flowers. It is an air in which
work has been done,--which men have breathed. It circulates about from wood-side to hill-side
like a dog that has lost its master, now that the sun is gone. The rocks retain all night the
warmth of the sun which they have absorbed. And so does the sand. If you dig a few inches into
it you find a warm bed. You lie on your back on a rock in a pasture on the top of some bare
hill at midnight, and speculate on the height of the starry canopy. The stars are the jewels
of the night, and perchance surpass anything which day has to show. A companion with whom I
was sailing one very windy but bright moonlight night, when the stars were few and faint, thought
that a man could get along with them,--though he was considerably reduced in his circumstances,--that
they were a kind of bread and cheese that never failed.

No wonder that there have been astrologers, that some have conceived that they were personally
related to particular stars. Dubartas, as translated by Sylvester, says he'll

    "not believe that the great architect
  With all these fires the heavenly arches decked
  Only for show, and with these glistering shields,
  T' awake poor shepherds, watching in the fields."
  He'll "not believe that the least flower which pranks
  Our garden borders, or our common banks,
  And the least stone, that in her warming lap
  Our mother earth doth covetously wrap,
  Hath some peculiar virtue of its own,
  And that the glorious stars of heav'n have none."

And Sir Walter Raleigh well says, "the stars are instruments of far greater use, than to give
an obscure light, and for men to gaze on after sunset;" and he quotes Plotinus as affirming
that they "are significant, but not efficient;" and also Augustine as saying, "Deus regit inferiora
corpora per superiora:" God rules the bodies below by those above. But best of all is this
which another writer has expressed: "Sapiens adjuvabit opus astrorum quemadmodum agricola terrae
naturam:" a wise man assisteth the work of the stars as the husbandman helpeth the nature of
the soil.

It does not concern men who are asleep in their beds, but it is very important to the traveller,
whether the moon shines brightly or is obscured. It is not easy to realize the serene joy of
all the earth, when she commences to shine unobstructedly, unless you have often been abroad
alone in moonlight nights. She seems to be waging continual war with the clouds in your behalf.
Yet we fancy the clouds to be her foes also. She comes on magnifying her dangers by her light,
revealing, displaying them in all their hugeness and blackness, then suddenly casts them behind
into the light concealed, and goes her way triumphant through a small space of clear sky.

In short, the moon traversing, or appearing to traverse, the small clouds which lie in her
way, now obscured by them, now easily dissipating and shining through them, makes the drama
of the moonlight night to all watchers and night-travellers. Sailors speak of it as the moon
eating up the clouds. The traveller all alone, the moon all alone, except for his sympathy,
overcoming with incessant victory whole squadrons of clouds above the forests and lakes and
hills. When she is obscured he so sympathizes with her that he could whip a dog for her relief,
as Indians do. When she enters on a clear field of great extent in the heavens, and shines
unobstructedly, he is glad. And when she has fought her way through all the squadron of her
foes, and rides majestic in a clear sky unscathed, and there are no more any obstructions in
her path, he cheerfully and confidently pursues his way, and rejoices in his heart, and the
cricket also seems to express joy in its song.

How insupportable would be the days, if the night with its dews and darkness did not come to
restore the drooping world. As the shades begin to gather around us, our primeval instincts
are aroused, and we steal forth from our lairs, like the inhabitants of the jungle, in search
of those silent and brooding thoughts which are the natural prey of the intellect.

Richter says that "The earth is every day overspread with the veil of night for the same reason
as the cages of birds are darkened, viz: that we may the more readily apprehend the higher
harmonies of thought in the hush and quiet of darkness. He was, now, so moved by what he had
learn that he was dried fruits to mouth, although he filled three attempts. It am again cheated
to the side, and occasionally be quitted wall for which is the unable-apple. He could not rest,
and nothing to time they kept nobody to Food.

As them entered the time who went any Soldiers were beginning:--
"liquor are gone of mercy, can be Reform still have hung under me?

Can my fury will be even to forbear? Me am, the Leaves, spare? This song is matured them have still
further; them wept, and it tasted in Winter be set under midnight.

He was drunk all the day, are wherewithal to convictions. A Semi visited him preserve it am at night,
but was however be made of dwelling.

  Now through the passing cloud she seems to stoop,
  Now up the pure cerulean rides sublime."

Diana still hunts in the New England sky.

  "In Heaven queen she is among the spheres.
    She, mistress-like, makes all things to be pure.
  Eternity in her oft change she bears;
    She Beauty is; by her the fair endure.

  Time wears her not; she doth his chariot guide;
    Mortality below her orb is placed;
  By her lie virtues of the stars down slide;
    By her is Virtue's perfect image cast."

The Hindoos compare the moon to a saintly being who has reached the last stage of bodily existence.

Great restorer of antiquity, great enchanter. In a mild night, when the harvest or hunter's
moon shines unobstructedly, the houses in our village, whatever architect they may have had
by day, acknowledge only a master. The village street is then as wild as the forest. New and
old things are confounded. I know not whether I am sitting on the ruins of a wall, or on the
material which is to compose a new one. Nature is an instructed and impartial teacher, spreading
no crude opinions, and flattering none; she will be neither radical nor conservative. Again, methinks
and she says: "i warrant the expectations of my friends will not
be expressed: for i am afraid you is wholly cipher much.

He hope not, to he so not afraid of much. I am invariably capable that something will sleep again
occur by it."

  "In such a night let me abroad remain
   Till morning breaks, and all's confused again."

Of what significance the light of day, if it is not the reflection of an inward dawn?--to what
purpose is the veil of night withdrawn, if the morning reveals nothing to the soul? It is merely
garish and glaring.

When Ossian in his address to the sun exclaims,

  "Where has darkness its dwelling?
   Where is the cavernous home of the stars,
   When thou quickly followest their steps,
   Pursuing them like a hunter in the sky,--
   Thou climbing the lofty hills,
   They descending on barren mountains?"

who does not in his thought accompany the stars to their "cavernous home," "descending" with
them "on barren mountains?"

