In this waking state, which really resembles that of dreams, only the analogy of form has been
perceived; the ideas of the objects present to the mind have resembled those of images seen
in dreams, but they have continued to be mere ideas, presented to the imagination, whereas
in dreams the things seen have been supposed to have a real existence. In this respect the
analysis is partly true and partly false; it is not, as we shall see, perfect and exact.

It sometimes happens, owing to special circumstances and conditions of mind, or to peculiar
temperaments, that the ideas of things do not remain as mere thoughts in the thinker's mind,
but that they become so intense that they are for the moment held to be real, precisely as
in a dream.

I do not here speak of abnormal or pathological conditions, or of extraordinary phenomena,
but of a normal and common condition. If there is any novelty in the assertion, it is owing
to a want of observation and reflection, and to not attempting to trace the real nature of
the phenomena in which we take part, and which occur every day. The habitual inaccuracy of
observation has led to the use of many proverbs and aphorisms in the interpretation of things
which have been transmitted from one generation to another, and are now accepted as indubitable
axioms. These are to be found in every branch of knowledge, and we have an instance in the
popular and scientific aphorism that in dreams images appear to be real, and that in the waking
state they always continue to be mere thoughts and ideas.

This is not the fact, since, putting illusions and hallucinations out of the question, thoughts
and ideas sometimes assume the character and nature of real objects, just as they do in dreams.
This fact constitutes the link and gradual assimilation of the two states, since in no series
of phenomena natura facit saltum.

When, for instance, as often happens, we abandon ourselves to a train of thought, and our perception
of surrounding objects is weakened by inattention, we become as it were unconscious, and are
only intent on the thoughts and ideas which move us. Since no definite object constrains the
will to rule and guide these thoughts and ideas, that condition of mind is established which
we have shown to be identical in form with the act of dreaming, for in this case also thoughts
and ideas have their origin in association alone. In this condition a phenomenon peculiar to
dreams may also occur which may be termed the suggestive impulse; a sound or some sudden sensation
produces an immediate transformation of the image itself, and a new dream arises in conformity
with the nature of the new impression. Every one must, consciously or unconsciously, have experienced
such a phenomenon, and this special characteristic of dreams may also take place in the waking
condition which I have described. I myself can bear witness to this fact, and will mention
one among several instances: I was once reading inattentively, seated at my ease in a lounging
chair, and my thoughts took quite another direction, wandering vaguely from one thing to another.
All at once some people entered an adjoining room talking together; I heard what they said
indistinctly, but the word Florence reached my ears, and I soon imagined myself to be in that
city, and going on from one association to another I continued for some time to see again the
places, monuments, and people I had known there. Yet I was fully awake, and from time to time
I brushed the flies from my face and glanced at the clock on the chimney-piece, since I had
to go out at three o'clock.

