THE BEST PORTRAITS IN ENGRAVING.

BY

CHARLES SUMNER.

Fifth Edition.

FREDERICK KEPPEL & CO.

NEW YORK, 20 EAST 16th STREET.

LONDON, PARIS,

3 DUKE STREET, ADELPHI. 27 QUAI DE L'HORLOGE.

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1875, by

FREDERICK KEPPEL,

In the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington.

THE BEST PORTRAITS IN ENGRAVING.

Engraving is one of the fine arts, and in this beautiful family has been the especial handmaiden
of painting. Another sister is now coming forward to join this service, lending to it the charm
of color. If, in our day, the "chromo" can do more than engraving, it cannot impair the value
of the early masters. With them there is no rivalry or competition. Historically, as well as
æsthetically, they will be masters always.

Everybody knows something of engraving, as of printing, with which it was associated in origin.
School-books, illustrated papers, and shop windows are the ordinary opportunities open to all.
But while creating a transient interest, or, perhaps, quickening the taste, they furnish little
with regard to the art itself, especially in other days. And yet, looking at an engraving,
like looking at a book, may be the beginning of a new pleasure and a new study.

Each person has his own story. Mine is simple. Suffering from continued prostration, disabling
me from the ordinary activities of life, I turned to engravings for employment and pastime.
With the invaluable assistance of that devoted connoisseur, the late Dr. Thies, I went through
the Gray collection at Cambridge, enjoying it like a picture-gallery. Other collections in
our country were examined also. Then, in Paris, while undergoing severe medical treatment,
my daily medicine for weeks was the vast cabinet of engravings, then called Imperial, now National,
counted by the million, where was everything to please or instruct. Thinking of those kindly
portfolios, I make this record of gratitude, as to benefactors. Perhaps some other invalid,
seeking occupation without burden, may find in them the solace that I did. Happily, it is not
necessary to visit Paris for the purpose. Other collections, on a smaller scale, will furnish
the same remedy.

In any considerable collection, portraits occupy an important place. Their multitude may be
inferred when I mention that, in one series of portfolios, in the Paris cabinet, I counted
no less than forty-seven portraits of Franklin and forty-three of Lafayette, with an equal
number of Washington, while all the early Presidents were numerously represented. But, in this
large company, there are very few possessing artistic value. The great portraits of modern
times constitute a very short list, like the great poems or histories, and it is the same with
engravings as with pictures. Sir Joshua Reynolds, explaining the difference between an historical
painter and a portrait-painter, remarks that the former "paints men in general, a portrait-painter
a particular man, and consequently a defective model."[1] A portrait, therefore, may be an
accurate presentment of its subject without æsthetic value.

But here, as in other things, genius exercises its accustomed sway without limitation. Even
the difficulties of a "defective model" did not prevent Raffaelle, Titian, Rembrandt, Rubens,
Velasquez, or Vandyck from producing portraits precious in the history of art. It would be
easy to mention heads by Raffaelle, yielding in value to only two or three of his larger masterpieces,
like the Dresden Madonna. Charles the Fifth stooped to pick up the pencil of Titian, saying
"it becomes Cæsar to serve Titian!" True enough; but this unprecedented compliment from the
imperial successor of Charlemagne attests the glory of the portrait-painter. The female figures
of Titian, so much admired under the names of Flora, La Bella, his daughter, his mistress,
and even his Venus, were portraits from life. Rembrandt turned from his great triumphs in his
own peculiar school to portraits of unwonted power; so also did Rubens, showing that in this
department his universality of conquest was not arrested. To these must be added Velasquez
and Vandyck, each of infinite genius, who won fame especially as portrait-painters. And what
other title has Sir Joshua himself?

[Sidenote: Suyderhoef.]

Historical pictures are often collections of portraits arranged so as to illustrate an important
event. Such is the famous PEACE OF MÜNSTER, by Terburg, just presented by a liberal Englishman
to the National Gallery at London. Here are the plenipotentiaries of Holland, Spain, and Austria,
uniting in the great treaty which constitutes an epoch in the Law of Nations. The engraving
by Suyderhoef is rare and interesting. Similar in character is the Death of Chatham, by Copley,
where the illustrious statesman is surrounded by the peers he had been addressing--every one
a portrait. To this list must be added the pictures by Trumbull in the Rotunda of the Capitol
at Washington, especially the Declaration of Independence, in which Thackeray took a sincere
interest. Standing before these, the author and artist said to me, "These are the best pictures
in the country," and he proceeded to remark on their honesty and fidelity; but doubtless their
real value is in their portraits.

Unquestionably the finest assemblage of portraits anywhere is that of the artists occupying
two halls in the gallery at Florence, being autographs contributed by the masters themselves.
Here is Raffaelle, with chestnut-brown hair, and dark eyes full of sensibility, painted when
he was twenty-three, and known by the engraving of Forster--Julio Romano, in black and red
chalk on paper,--Massaccio, called the father of painting, much admired--Leonardo da Vinci,
beautiful and grand,--Titian, rich and splendid,--Pietro Perugino, remarkable for execution
and expression,--Albert Dürer, rigid but masterly,--Gerhard Dow, finished according to his
own exacting style,--and Reynolds, with fresh English face; but these are only examples of
this incomparable collection, which was begun as far back as the Cardinal Leopold de Medici,
and has been happily continued to the present time. Here are the lions, painted by themselves,
except, perhaps, the foremost of all, Michael Angelo, whose portrait seems the work of another.
The impression from this collection is confirmed by that of any group of historic artists.
Their portraits excel those of statesmen, soldiers, or divines, as is easily seen by engravings
accessible to all. The engraved heads in Arnold Houbraken's biographies of the Dutch and Flemish
painters, in three volumes, are a family of rare beauty.[2]

