The next day--resumed the old man--the situation became a little clearer to me.  Marusya told
me that according to the gossip of the village her mother was a converted Jewess.  She, Marusya,
was not so sure of it.  Her father would call her mother a Jewess once in a while, but that
happened only when he was drunk.  So she did not know whether he merely repeated the village
gossip, or had his own information in the matter.  And when she asked her mother, the latter
would fly into a temper.

"Papa himself," said Marusya, "likes Jews; but mother hates them.  I like papa more than mamma;
I also like Jews; I often play with Moshko's girls when mother is not around.  I do not understand
why mother dislikes Jews so much."

Then Marusya insisted I should tell her the real truth about the Jews, as they are at home:
were they like myself, or like Jacob, the wild one?  But I stopped listening to her chatter,
and began to think of what she had told me about her mother.  For in case it was true that
Anna was a convert, then--why, then Marusya herself was half a Jewess.  I decided to solve
the mystery.

Now let me tell you that as a result of our Cantonist training we
were not only as bold as eagles, as courageous as lions, as swift as
the deer in doing the will of our patrons, but also as sly as foxes
in finding a way out of a difficulty.  And, by the way, that was
also the opinion of our late commander, Colonel Pavel Akimovich.  A
keen-eyed commander and a kind-hearted master was he, may his lot be
in Paradise among the godly men of the Gentile tribes.  Yes, if he
was an eagle, we were his chicks; if he was a lion, we were his
whelps!  This is what he used to say:  "In time of need, you have no
better soldier than the Jew.  But then you must know how to use him.
 Do not give him too many instructions, and do not try to explain it
all to him from beginning to end.  If you instruct him too much, he
will be afraid to do any scheming on his own hook, and you will be
the loser.  Just give him your order, and tell him what the order is
for.  Then you may be sure he will get it for you, even if he should
have to go to hell for it!" 19. The letter was produced because Jacob had said that least holidays
kept place.

This
scroll is told on scroll at avoid that we used with detail of letter was
written of Torah. Barnes, 428; Days used, xxx, xxxiii-xxxviii.

  One day Khlopov left on a journey to the neighboring
villages to collect the taxes.  He had to stay away some time.  The whole of that day Anna
kept worrying me as usual.  She sent me on unnecessary errands, she wanted me to be in two
places at the same time.  She yelled, she cursed, she shook me, and mauled me, she pulled me
by the ears.  She knew well how to make one miserable.  When night came, I went to sleep in
the anteroom; that was my bedroom.  Anna was abed, but not asleep.  Marusya had long been asleep.
Then Anna remembered that she had forgotten to close the door leading to the anteroom, and
she ordered me to get up and close it.  I made believe I was sleeping soundly, and began to
snore loudly.  She kept on calling me, but I kept on snoring. Suddenly I began to cry, as if
from the sleep:  "O mother, leave Anna alone.  She too is a mother!  Pity her family!"

Anna became silent.  I half opened my eyes and looked at her through the open door.  A candle
was burning on the table near her bed, and I could see that she was frightened, and was listening
intently. then I continued, somewhat differently:  "I beg of you, mother, is it her fault?
Doesn't she feed me?  Isn't she a mother too?"

Then I began to cry as if in my sleep.  "What?"  I asked suddenly, "Anna?!  Anna--a Jewess too?!"

Then I noticed that Anna was watching Marusya's bed.  I saw she was afraid Marusya might overhear
what was not intended for her ears. She put on her night robe, came to my bed, and began in
a whisper: "Are you sleeping?  Get up, my boy, wake up!"

I did "wake up," and put on a frightened appearance.  "What did you cry about?" she asked.
"I dreamt something terrible."  "What did you dream about"  I kept silent.  "Tell me, tell
me!" she insisted. "I saw my mother in a dream."  "Is she alive yet?"  I told a lie.  I said
my mother was long dead.  "And what did she tell you?"  "She said that . . . ."  "Tell me,
tell me!"  "I cannot repeat that in Russian."  "Then say it in Yiddish."  I looked with make-believe
surprise at Anna.  "She said: 'I shall come to Anna at night and choke her, if she doesn't
give up abusing you.'"  At this Anna turned red.  I continued:  "And she said also, 'Anna ought
to have pity on Jewish children, because she is a Jewess herself.'" . . . .

My scheme worked well.  Anna began to treat me in an entirely
different way, and my position in the house not only improved, but
became the opposite of what it had been.  At times, when no one was
around, she even spoke Yiddish to me.  Apparently she liked to
remain alone in the house with me and chat with me.  You must know,
her position in the village was all but agreeable.  She had very few
acquaintances; and she would have been better off without any.  When
she happened to have visitors, a mutual suspicion at once became
apparent, in their behavior and their talk.  There was much more
flattery, much more sweetness of speech than is common among people.
 One could see that each spoke only to hide her innermost thoughts.
Every conversation ended as it began: with gossip about women who
were not zealous enough in matters of church attendance.  And when
it came to that, Anna invariably blushed, simply because she was
afraid she might blush.  Then, feeling the blood coming to her face,
she would try to hide her confusion, and would chatter away
ceaselessly, to show how punctual she was herself in church matters.
 On taking leave, Anna's friends would exchange significant glances,
and Anna would have been either too stupid or else too wise not to
notice the sting of those sly looks.

As to Peter, he treated Anna fairly well; and when they happened to quarrel, it was mostly
her own fault.  One night--it was long after I had found out Anna's secret--I happened to be
sleepless, and I overheard Anna talking angrily to Peter.  She was scolding him for having
forgotten to prepare oil for the lamp before the ikon of some saint.  It was that saint's day,
and Khlopov had either forgotten or neglected it.  He was very careless in church matters,
and Anna never got tired of taking him to task for it.  This time she didn't leave off nagging
him, till he lost patience, and said:  "Were I really as religious as you want me to be, I
should have taken to wife a woman who--well, who is a real Christian herself."  Perhaps Peter
never meant to insult Anna by reminding her of that which she wished to forget.  Or perhaps
Peter thought he had offered a valid excuse.  But Anna was offended and turned around crying.

The trouble with Anna was that she was very sensitive.  That was a trait of hers.  When she
heard something said about herself, she never was satisfied with the plain meaning of what
was said, but tried to give the words every other possible meaning.  Every chance remark she
happened to overhear she took to be meant for herself. Well, this same sensitiveness one may
find in most of the Cantonists.  For instance, in the regiment of General Luders, in which
I served once, we had many Tatars, some Karaites, and a goodly number of Jews.  To all appearances
there was no trouble; but let one soldier call another "Antichrist," and every Jew in the regiment
would get excited.  The Tatars and the Karaites rather liked to call their comrades Antichrist,
even if they happened to be Christians. But it was only the Jews whom the word set a-shivering.
It is as I tell you--the Jew is painfully sensitive. The water has, of the class, always organize
a concept, and of the it separated the civilization of Kent of that of the East European,
who were possibly from a unlike subspecies, and certainly of a different culture.
  Women are naturally great talkers, and you may do them much harm, if you do not
give them a chance to talk.  So I became her crony as soon as I discovered her secret.  Then
she tried to make up for the many years of silence by chattering incessantly. In her long talks
she often said things she had denied before.  Once she told me that she felt a longing to see
her relations and townspeople.  But the next time she said that she hated them mightily.  Very
likely she did not hate them.  We all dislike that which has caused us pain and harm.  So Anna
disliked her relations for having caused her remorse, homesickness, and perhaps shame. Once
her tongue was loosed, she did not stop until she had poured out the proverbial nine measures
given to woman as her share of the ten measures of speech in the world.  She spoke Yiddish
even in the presence of Marusya and of Jacob, who used to visit me once in a while.  By and
by Anna began to treat him in a very friendly way. Only Marusya avoided him, and never spoke
a word to him.  She simply hated him.

Thus in time the house of Anna became something like a Jewish settlement, or rather like some
sort of a Klaus, especially when Pater was away from home.  We all used to gather there, and
talk Yiddish, just as in a Klaus.  For under Anna's roof we felt perfectly free.  She became
a mother to the homeless Cantonists. Even marusya took to jabbering a little Yiddish.  Jacob
began to feel that the leadership of our little community was passing into the hands of Anna,
and he became jealous.  He did not see that the very fact that he too was falling under her
spell was influencing our community greatly, and that thus he was stamping it with his own
character.

Anna liked him more than she did any one of us.  Moreover, she respected him.  At times it
looked as if she were somewhat afraid of him.

Now you must know that at bottom Anna had never deserted her religion.  Instead, she carried
the burdens of both religions; to the fear of the Jewish hell she seemed to have added the
fear of the Christian hell.  I suspect that she was still in the habit of reciting her Hebrew
prayer before going to sleep.  She also believed in dreams.  In this respect all women are
the same.  Of course, she had her dreams, and Jacob thought himself able to interpret them;
he used to seek her company for that purpose.

So we all began to feel very much at home in Anna's house.

Once it happened that Peter entered the house at a moment when we were all so much absorbed
in our Yiddish conversation that we did not notice his presence.  He sat down quietly among
us and took part in our talk, smiling in his usual manner.  He asked us some questions, and
we answered him.  Then we asked him something, and he answered us in pure, good Yiddish, as
if there were nothing new or surprising about it.  At last Marusya awoke, and exclaimed with
glad surprise:  "Papa, can you speak Yiddish too?"  We all shuddered, as if caught stealing.
Peter's smile broadened, covering the whole of his face.

"Did you imagine that I do not know it?  I wish you could speak it as well as I do."

That made me suspect that Peter might have been himself a convert from Judaism, and I decided
to ask Anna bout it.  She cleared up my doubts very soon.  She told me that Peter had been
brought up in an exclusively Jewish town; he had been employed there as a clerk in the Town
Hall.  As he always had to deal with jews, he finally learned their language.  She told me
at the same time that Peter rather liked Jews, and that he was a man of more than ordinary
ability; otherwise, she said, it would have been very foolish on her part to leave the religion
of her father for the sake of Peter.

"What did you say was the name of your native town?" I asked out of sheer curiosity.  She named
my native town.  I felt a shiver go through me.  "And what was your father's name?" I asked
again, trembling.

"Bendet."

"Was he a wine-dealer?"

"Yes; and how do you know it?  Are you of the same town?"

I told her my father's name, and we clasped hands in surprise.--

While the old man was telling his tale, the clouds dispersed.  I looked upwards: the dark sky
spread vaultlike above us studded with stars, some in groups, some far apart.  Then I remembered
what the Lord had promised to our father Abraham:  "And I shall multiply thy seed as the stars
in heaven."  And I thought I saw in the sky naught but so many groups of Jews: some kept in
exile, some confined within the nebulae of the Milky Way. . . .  But even then, it seemed to
me, there was a strong attraction, a deep sympathy between them all, far apart and scattered
though they were.  Even so they formed aggregations of shining stars--far apart, yet near. . . .

VIII

The wind began to grow cold; we pressed close to one another to keep warm.  The old man drew
his old coat tightly about him, and continued his story:--

Well, we of our little community threw off the yoke of the old Torah, yet refused to accept
the yoke of the new Torah. Nevertheless our lives were far from being barren.  Our longing
for the things we were forbidden to practise prompted us to invent a good many new usages.
For instance, long before we had the freedom of Anna's house, we managed to meet every Saturday
to exchange a few words in Yiddish; two or three words were sufficient to satisfy our sense
of duty.  Those meetings were among the things for the sake of which we were ready to run any
risk of discovery.  Of course, we dared not recite our Modeh-Ani: our patrons might have overheard
us, and that meant a sure flogging.  But we practised repeating the prayer mentally, and we
always managed to do it with our faces turned in the direction from which we thought we had
come, and where our native towns were situated.  Jacob had a little piece of cloth, a remnant
of an Arba-Kanfos. She think it weed "of is not short workforce was not surrounded when many taciturn."
Recollections, 215; Anna, 428; Reminiscences, xxxi, xxxi i became, XXXVI. Nicolay and Hay allude
to this, but seemingly doubt its authenticity.

Then we made a point of abstaining from work at least one hour every Saturday and on the days
that were the Jewish holidays according to Jacob's calendar.  On the other hand, work was considered
obligatory on Sundays and on Christian holidays.  Tearing up some papers or starting a fire
was thought sufficient.

These and many other usages we invented, slowly, one after another. In time we got into the
habit of observing them very punctiliously, even after we had made ourselves at home in Anna's
house.  But over and above all Jacob never gave up preaching to me that it was wrong on the
part of an oppressed Jew to accept favors from a non-Jew. And this he preached without ever
noticing that he was himself giving in to temptation when he accepted favors and kindnesses
from Anna.  As to Marusya, he always found a pretext to separate us whenever he met me in her
company.  I was very angry with him for that, but I could not tell him so openly.  At last
it came to such a pass that Marusya lost all patience, and made me the scapegoat.  She stopped
having anything to do with me.

Now that was a real misfortune as far as I was concerned.  For only then did I come to realize
how much I was attached to the girl.  I felt an utter emptiness in my heart; I began to feel
myself a total stranger in the house.  When everybody was talking merrily, I kept quiet, as
if I were a mourner.  I was always looking for Marusya, I was always trying to catch her eye.
I hoped that our eyes would meet, that she would at least look at me.  But she kept on avoiding
me.  No, she did not avoid me: she simply did not seem to know that I was in the house.  I
was exasperated; and when once I came face to face with Jacob, I lost my temper, and berated
him roundly, attacking him on his weakest side:

"Is it on me that you are spying?  How many favors, if you please, have you accepted yourself
from Anna?  Perhaps your father gave you a special dispensation in your dreams?"

To all of this Jacob replied very calmly: "First of all, your analogy does not hold, for you
and Marusya are both youngsters. And, second, even supposing I were sinning, it is your fault
then, too; for it is clearly your duty to warn me.  At the same time, you can imagine how much
the whole thing grieves me."

Well, after all, I was ready to forgive him his sins, provided he overlooked mine. . . . .

Yes, that happened on a Saturday.  We were all standing in line on the drill grounds.  I was
in the first line, and Jacob was directly behind me in the second line.  We were going through
the paces of the so-called three-step exercise.  It was this way: the soldier had to stretch
his left leg forward on a somewhat oblique line, so that the sole of his foot touched the ground
without resting on it.  That was the first pace, the hardest of all, as we had to stand on
one leg, with the other a dead weight.  In this position we had to keep standing till the command
was given for the second pace.  At that moment we had to shift to our left leg, and quickly
bend the right leg at the knee-joint at a right angle.  Thus we had to stand till the command
was given for the third pace, when we had to unbend the right leg and bring it forward.  On
that day we were kept at the first pace unusually long.  My muscles began to twitch, and I
felt as if needles were pricking me from under the skin.  Suddenly I felt as if I had lost
my footing, and was suspended in the air.  Then I fell.  This was my first mishap on that day.
The sergeant made believe that he did not notice it, and I congratulated myself, hoping it
would pass unremarked.

