Robinette, sly bird, had been watching and listening; and when he saw that attention was drawn
to the nest, he sat down in it as though he were the lady on her eggs, knowing well "the mistress"
would give orders that he was not to be disturbed. And when she saw it was her own pet robin,
of course she was more decided, and told the gardener he was on no account to take down the
nest, and every possible arrangement was to be made for the comfort and happiness of Robinette
and his wife.

It is customary to close all stories when the hero marries. So, having come to the end of Robinette's
bachelor days, we shall take leave of him and his bride, hoping that, now they are married,
they will "live happy ever after."

APPLE-PIE ORDER.

What a bright, sunshiny forenoon! and how green the meadow looked before Simon Copland's farm!
The thrush in the great thorn was singing loudly, and the old clock, which stood in its dark
oak case in the corner of the kitchen, struck twelve as little Phœbe came into the porch.

This little girl, though, whose face was so sad, and whose straw-hat hung so droopingly from
her arm, was not like the Phœbe of most days, who, on her return from school about this hour,
came popping her happy little face in at the door, and if dinner were ready, would eat hers
quickly, and be off again.

The kitchen at Simon Copland's was a long, large room, and had great beams across the ceiling,
from which hung hams and other good things. Mrs. Copland was busy at the table, and near one
of the windows sat her brother, Phœbe's uncle, Roger, who lived some miles away at pretty Lady's
Mead, and who was very dear to his little niece. To him, however, she had no mind to go at
present, and would have slipped upstairs; but he quickly spied out the little figure in the
doorway, and opened his arms to her, saying, "Here's the little lass; give thy Uncle Rogie
a kiss, Phœbe." There was no escape for Phœbe, and in a minute more she was on her uncle's
knee, while his large forefinger was placed on the marks of tears on her cheeks, and his kind
inquiring eyes asked as well as his words, "Phœbe, my lass, what ails thee?"

Her mother turned round from the table. "What is it, Phœbe?" she said.

And then came a burst of tears from the little girl, and a confession, poured into Uncle Roger's
ear, of misfortunes that day, and many days before, at Mrs. Nott's school in the village; how
diligently Phœbe had always prepared her lessons overnight, but how first one book was lost,
and then another; and how to-day, because the pencil had been carelessly fastened to the slate,
it too had disappeared, and was not there when wanted, and in consequence Margaret Prettyman
had got above her--sly Margaret Prettyman, who often did not learn her lessons at all, but
kept her place at the head of the class by writing down her task on a slip of paper, and keeping
it in her hand while she repeated it; and how Mrs. Nott had said that Margaret was so tidy
and Phœbe so careless; and how she reproved the latter when the class was over, and told her
that, unless girls were tidy and careful, all their learning was of no use. "Every girl ought
to keep herself and her things in apple-pie order," Mrs. Nott said. "And, O uncle," sobbed
Phœbe, "I know I'm careless, but I never can remember to be tidy; and I can't keep apple-pie
order, for I don't know what it is." And so, with many more tears, Phœbe's confession ended.

"Well, child," said her mother, "it's as I've often told you. Your drawer is a shame to be
seen; and I'm glad Mrs. Nott spoke to you as she did."

Uncle Roger stroked his chin, and sat looking out through the window for a little, saying nothing,
till Phœbe's sobs grew less frequent, and at last almost ceased. He then reached his hand through
the open lattice, and pulling a little flower from among the creepers, gently raised Phœbe's
face, saying,—

"Look thee here, little niece; mark this small, pretty flower, with its white blossoms so perfect
and tidy; look at the stalk below, and each little leaf upon it, regular, one after the other.
There isn't one part of this pretty flower out of its place, Phœbe; and who made it?"

Phœbe's sobs ceased altogether as she replied, "God, uncle."

"And look there," Uncle Roger went on, drawing towards him as he spoke a large china dish,
on which lay a beautiful honeycomb, which Mrs. Copland had set aside for a sick friend--"look
at this too. See each cell, and each of these beautiful little arches; there is not one unlike
its neighbour. What do you think of order like that, niece Phœbe? isn't it perfect?"

"Yes, uncle," she whispered, quieted and wondering.

"Well, little lass, our God, who made the pretty flower, and caused the bees to make the sweet
honeycomb, is a God of order, and He loves order. He does not wish my little Phœbe to be the
untidy little maid she is."

Phœbe lay quiet for a few minutes, thinking to herself how kindly Uncle Roger always spoke
to her, and how much easier it was to "feel good" with him than with Mrs. Nott or Margaret
Prettyman. "But what did Mrs. Nott mean by 'apple-pie order,' uncle?" she said after a little,
looking up in her uncle's face.

Uncle Roger smiled and smoothed her hair, not saying anything for a moment or two; then, instead
of answering her question, he asked, "When is your birthday, Phœbe?"

"The twenty-sixth of next month," she replied quickly, and wondering very much.

"Do you remember," continued Uncle Roger, "the custard feast I gave you last birthday? I've
been asking your mother here to bring you over this year too to Lady's Mead, and I'll give
you another feast, and father, and mother, and Bob, and little Charlie; and we'll have Uncle
and Aunt Leyton, and little Mary-Anne to keep you company; and then, Niece Phœbe, I'm thinking
of showing you by that time what apple-pie order is. Don't you know how good Uncle Roger's
apple-pies are?"

"O uncle!" cried Phœbe, clasping him closely round the neck; "how good you are to me, Uncle
Roger--custards and apple-pies, and Cousin Mary-Anne!"

"Fair and softly," said her uncle, loosening her hold. "You haven't heard it all yet, Phœbe.
It is nearly a month till that, you know. Well, you must promise me that every day of that
month you will please your mother by keeping your drawer, or whatever it is, as tidy as a nut;
and I must have from Mrs. Nott a good account of your order and neatness. Mind, every day;
no books lost, no pencils falling off, else no apple-pies for you, Niece Phœbe."

Phœbe's face fell. "O uncle!" she said.

Her mother looked round again. "Roger, you spoil the child," she exclaimed.

"Not if I teach her order, Sister Marjory," was his reply.

"I'll try, uncle," whispered Phœbe; and Uncle Roger kissed her.

You all know the difference well, I don't doubt, betwixt trying and doing--how easy it seems
to perform a promise at first, when resolves are fresh and strong, but how each day takes,
as it were, a little bit of strength out of the wish to do the disagreeable duty. Little Phœbe
was truly anxious to overcome her bad habit; and I can also say that, though apple-pies and
custards, and her dear little cousin Mary-Anne's company, had at first given her an inducement
to do so, yet after a little that part of it became very faint indeed in comparison with the
wish to succeed in fulfilling her promise to Uncle Roger.

Difficult enough the task was; and sometimes Phœbe felt as if the month would never pass. But
the days went on somehow, and Mrs. Copland was much amused, and secretly much pleased, to see
the important air with which her little daughter would retire daily to her small bedroom, next
her father and mother's, and after a great deal of knocking about and noise overhead, would
run downstairs, and coming to Mrs. Copland, say, "Please, mother, come and look at my drawer.
I'm sure it's tidy."

After a little time had passed, Mrs. Copland explained to her daughter the secret of true order;
which is, not to keep things untidy, and to have constantly to put them to rights, but to keep
them right--to put everything in its own place at once. This was a new part to learn in Phœbe's
lesson, but she tried it, and heartily too; and things were going on in this way when, just
two days before the month was over, there came a sad misfortune to her, which took away the
hopes of apple-pies and other things which her birthday was to bring her.

All this time she had been going regularly to Mrs. Nott's school, and the schoolmistress was
much surprised at the change in her careless little pupil. Her companions, too, could not tell
what had come to Phœbe Copland; and as for sly Margaret Prettyman, she was filled with dislike
and envy of her little rival; for Phœbe, having put aside her careless habits, took her place
as first in the class, and Margaret had been first till now.

On this particular afternoon Mrs. Nott had given her girls an additional task to learn; and
Phœbe, having a quarter of an hour to spare, sat down, as was her habit sometimes, to look
over the lesson before leaving school. She was putting up her books, when one of the other
girls, Esther Heywood, came to her with a message from her (Esther's) mother, asking Phœbe
to step down to the Mill Farm, where the Heywoods lived. They had got a jar of fine citron-preserves,
which the sailor son, Jem, had brought from across the seas to his mother; and she was going
to send some over to Mrs. Copland to taste.

"You might leave your books here," said Esther, "and I'll walk back a bit with you. We'll get
them when we come."

The citron-preserves were very, very good, and Phœbe was kept a little while at the Mill Farm
to taste them, and to hear the wonderful things which Jem Heywood had to tell about the parrots
and the beautiful birds in the countries where he had been; and then Phœbe started on her way
home over the fields, and Esther with her. Sailor Jem said he'd "go a bit too with the girls,"
to see them "under way," as he called it; and it ended by Esther and Jem going the whole way
with her, to carry her books, which they got as they passed the school-house.

All the evening Jem was telling them such funny stories that she could not attend to her lessons,
but went to bed quite tired with laughing, and dreamed that she was a parrot, and that Jem
Heywood was teaching her tasks off by heart.

Next morning, with the sunshine, up jumped Phœbe, to learn her lessons before going to school.
She felt very happy. The next day but one was her birthday; and next day itself Uncle Roger
would be over from Lady's Mead, she knew, and then she would tell him how faithfully she had
kept her promise; and how pleased and kind he would look--she could fancy she saw his face
so well. And singing a little song to herself, Phœbe sat down at her bedroom window, opening
her books out before her on her knee. But there were only three books there, and she ought
to have four.

How Phœbe sought for that book--through all her drawers and her little room, then through the
house, and lastly, down all the lane, and by every step of the path through the fields which
they had crossed the evening before! Oh, what a weary search that was, and what a sad story
to tell her mother, when, without the book, Phœbe returned.

If Mrs. Copland looked so vexed, what would Uncle Roger be? And then all the happy birthday
pleasures which she had lost! She would have to dine with little Charlie, she knew, and to
feel as if in disgrace all day; and in disgrace even Lady's Mead itself could bring her no
pleasure. Poor little Phœbe!

Her mother would not allow her to stay at home from school, but said she must tell Mrs. Nott
the plain truth, and, if she had time before the class began, learn the lesson from some of
the other girls' books. Fortunately, the missing task was that which Phœbe had learned before
leaving the school the day before; but, owing to her haste and agitation, it was so incorrectly
repeated that Margaret Prettyman again triumphantly took her place at the head of the class.
It was hard enough to see Margaret's malicious face as she pushed past, and Phœbe had much
trouble in choking down her temper and her tears at the same time.

The next day Esther Heywood came to meet her with a very sorrowful face, and told her that
Jem had been "all up the fields" the evening before, searching the path they had gone by, and
that he had looked into every nook and corner he could think of, but he could not see the book
anywhere. His opinion was, though, that Uncle Roger would never keep to his word; that he would
never disappoint Phœbe on her birthday for such a trifle.

Phœbe shook her head. "Uncle Roger always keeps his word," she said. "I'll be in disgrace,
I know, though perhaps I'll go to Lady's Mead all the same; but that will be quite as bad as
not going at all."

Hardest of all it was when Uncle Roger came over that afternoon. Mrs. Copland had to tell him
the story, for Phœbe was so drowned in tears that she could not speak a word. Uncle Roger looked
grave when he heard how it was, but soothed his weeping little niece kindly, and gave her no
reproof. He spoke little or nothing about the following day, only saying, while stroking her
hair as usual, "Well, my little maid, we must stick to our bargain. Apple-pie order must wait
till next year, I fancy; but come over all the same, and welcome, to Lady's Mead. You and Mary-Anne
can have your romp together; and you must forget it's your own birthday, that's all. I'm just
about as much pleased with you for your last month's doings as if all your books were safe
in your bag, mind you that; and now wipe your tears, my little lass."

The next morning rose as bright and beautiful as you could well wish to see, and Phœbe, seated
by her father behind the old grey horse Robin, with her mother and Charlie in the back seat,
almost forgot her sorrows while driving down the sweet, shady lanes in all their beautiful
autumn colours, and while looking forward to Lady's Mead, and the delight of seeing her dear
little cousin Mary-Anne.

Lady's Mead was such a pretty place, with a very large orchard full of rosy-cheeked apples;
and there was a dairy, large, and cool, and sweet, with great bowls of delicious milk, and
such a beautifully white, clean floor. Out of doors there was a swing, and a pretty mossy summer-house
down by the stream, and such delightful little paths through clipped yew hedges, and an old
sun-dial on the grass, and in one corner a stone figure of a little boy kneeling, with his
hands clasped and his face looking up to heaven. It was altogether such a place as children
did not weary of; and had it not been for little Phœbe's late troubles, she would have been
as joyous as the birds which were singing in the trees all round them.

There were many "rubs" to bear, though; first, the meeting with her uncle and aunt and Mary-Anne,
and receiving from them no happy birthday wishes as usual; and then seeing her brother Bob's
disappointed face when he came over from the county town where he was serving his apprenticeship,
bringing with him a nice little parcel, which looked very like a doll, wrapped up in thin brown
paper, and stowed away in one of his pockets for his little sister. The parcel was not taken
out, however.

Cousin Mary-Anne, who was a dear, good little girl, no sooner heard that Phœbe was to dine
at a side-table with little Charlie, instead of the treat of sitting at the great long one
with the older people, than she declared that she would do so too; and though Phœbe would not
listen to this at first, yet Mary-Anne would have it so, and it was accordingly settled. She
proved herself, too, such a good little comforter and companion, that Phœbe became quite cheerful
again, though perhaps their play was not quite so merry as usual.

First they went to the poultry-yard, where there was a brood of very fine little ducklings,
just hatched, to see. Then to the dairy, where they both were allowed to pat away at the butter
and make it up for tea. Then Matty, the dairy-maid, said that she must leave the dairy, and
that they must go too; so they sauntered away down by the stream to the pretty summer-house.
They were glad to get there, because of the shade, for the sun was hot, and they were tired
with butter-making. So for some little time they sat resting, and making boats of the large
leaves, to float down the stream.

By-and-by they heard a step coming quickly down the path towards them, and directly afterwards
Bob came hurrying into the summer-house, saying, "Phœbe, come along; Uncle Roger's seeking
you.--And you, Mary-Anne, if you like, you little duck;" and with that Bob gave a loud "hurrah,"
which made both the girls spring to their feet in astonishment.

"But why, Bob?" asked Phœbe excitedly, as he hurried them along, one in each hand, as fast
as they could go up the path.

"Never you mind," said Bob--"you'll soon know;" and then he gave another "hurrah" and jumped
like a madman.

On they rushed, through the orchard, round the yew hedge, and so past the old dial, and over
the grass, on to the house. At the window, which was a very large one, Phœbe saw quite a crowd;
for they were all collected there, and amongst them, to her astonishment, stood tall Jem Heywood.
When she and Bob and Mary-Anne came in sight, he set up a cheer, in which little Charlie joined
lustily; and Phœbe turned first red and then pale, and at last stopped altogether in fright
and bewilderment, dragging the two others back with her. Then her father's face looked out
and smiled to her, and then her mother's and Aunt Leyton's; and then out came Uncle Roger,
and Phœbe was lifted on his shoulder, and carried through the midst of the smiling faces to
where the dinner was laid out.

There she saw a little bower of green branches over a chair at Uncle Roger's right hand, at
the end of the table; and on this chair, under the boughs, Uncle Roger set her down, while
before her rose the most enormous apple-pie you can imagine! Instead of crust, which it looked
like, its cover was of china-ware; and Uncle Roger raised it in his hand when every one had
sat down all round the table, and there--what do you think? Phœbe saw the wonderful pie filled,
not with apples, but with beautiful birthday gifts--Bob's doll, dressed all in pink ribbons
and lace; a little straw-hat, trimmed with bright blue ribbons, from Aunt Leyton; a pretty
china cottage, covered with roses, from Mary-Anne; a beautiful little work-box, lined with
red silk, and filled with every pretty, useful thing for sewing, and also a crown-piece in
it, from her father and mother; and better than all these, a small Bible, beautifully bound
in purple velvet, with gold clasps, from Uncle Roger; and beside this lay another book, and
with a cry of surprise Phœbe saw before her, torn and stained, her own lost lesson-book! What
a cheer rose up all round the table! And sailor Jem cheered louder than any one. But all this
joy was too much for poor Phœbe, and she fell a-crying on Uncle Roger's shoulder.

If any of you wish to know how the lost book was found again, I must tell you what Jem Heywood
said about it, though it won't be in his own words.

He had been down the evening before at Mrs. Prettyman's (Margaret's mother), and one of the
little ones having come toddling into the room, Jem had lifted it on his knee, taking as he
did so a crushed, torn book out of its hand. On the fly-leaf, though almost torn away, Jem
read, to his surprise, the first letters of Phœbe's name. The child said it had got the book
"in Maggie's bag." Then Margaret came in herself, and Jem asked her what was the meaning of
this. Her angry, guilty face and confused replies immediately roused his suspicions; and on
going home he took care to let his sister Esther know all he had seen and heard. The truth
was soon found out. It was Margaret who had done this spiteful thing, to bring disgrace upon Phœbe.

Can you all picture to yourselves Phœbe's joy on this happy evening? How grateful she was to
Jem Heywood, and how the hours flew away, supper-time coming before the games seemed half done!
Phœbe found time, though, for a long, happy talk with Uncle Roger; and it was then she told
him how she had made up her mind not to quarrel with Margaret because of all this, but to try,
if possible, to be better friends than before; for she now saw, she said, that their quarrelling
had brought all this about.

I may as well add here, as some of you may wish to know, that Phœbe's resolution had its own
reward, for her change of conduct seemed to bring about a change in Margaret's too. Of course
this took some time, for bad feelings cannot be rooted up all at once. But as the months passed
on, every one could see a great improvement in Margaret. Little beginnings often bring much
greater endings; and Margaret could look back afterwards to this time with feelings of gratitude
for the lesson which had been taught her by means of one forgiving little heart.

On this birthday night Uncle Roger was much pleased to hear Phœbe speak as she did; and her
happiness was quite full when, drawing her on his knee, he added, "And my little Phœbe has
shown me that, with God's help, she has learned the meaning of 'APPLE-PIE ORDER.'"