

"How glad I am to see you think thus," I replied, "and how well you act in advocating these
forms, the neglect of which tarnishes everything."

He responded with warmth; and I seized the moment to say, that if he, whose rank was so great
and so derided, was right to pay attention to these things, how such we dukes had reason to
complain of our losses, and to try to sustain ourselves!  Thereupon he entered into the question
so far as to become the advocate of our cause, and finished by saying that he regarded our
restoration as an act of justice important to the state; that he knew I was well instructed
in these things, and that I should give him pleasure by talking of them some day.  He rejoined
at that, moment the Dauphine, and they set off for Saint-Germain.

A few days after this the Dauphin sent for me.  I entered by the wardrobe, where a sure and
trusty valet was in waiting; he conducted me to a cabinet in which the Dauphin was sitting
alone.  Our conversation at once commenced.  For a full hour we talked upon the state of affairs,
the Dauphin listening with much attention to all I said, and expressing himself with infinite
modesty, sense, and judgment.  His view, I found, were almost entirely in harmony with mine.
He was sorry, and touchingly said so, for the ignorance of all things in which the King was
kept by his ministers; he was anxious to see the power of those ministers restricted; he looked
with dislike upon the incredible elevation of the illegitimate children; he wished to see the
order to which I belonged restored to the position it deserved to occupy.

It is difficult to express what I felt in quitting the Dauphin.  A magnificent and near future
opened out before me.  I saw a prince, pious, just, debonnaire, enlightened, and seeking to
become more so; with principles completely in accord with my own, and capacity to carry out
those principles when the time for doing so arrived.  I relished deliciously a confident so
precious and so full upon the most momentous matters and at a first interview.  I felt all
the sweetness of this perspective, and of my deliverance from a servitude which, in spite of
myself, I sometimes could not help showing myself impatient of.  I felt, too, that I now had
an opportunity of elevating myself, and of contributing to those grand works, for the happiness
and advantage of the state I so much wished to see accomplished.

A few days after this I had another interview with the Dauphin.  I was introduced secretly
as before, so that no one perceived either my coming or my departure.  The same subjects we
had previously touched upon we now entered into again, and more amply than on the former occasion.
The Dauphin, in taking leave of me, gave me full permission to see him in private as often
as I desired, though in public I was still to be circumspect.

Indeed there was need of great circumspection in carrying on even private intercourse with
the Dauphin.  From this time I continually saw him in his cabinet, talking with him in all
liberty upon the various persons of the Court, and upon the various subjects relating to the
state; but always with the same secrecy as at first.  This was absolutely necessary; as I have
just said, I was still in a sort of half disgrace the King did not regard me with the eyes
of favour; Madame de Maintenon was resolutely averse to me.  If they two had suspected my strict
intimacy with the heir to the throne, I should have been assuredly lost.

To show what need there was of precaution in my private interviews with the Dauphin, let me
here recall an incident which one day occurred when we were closeted together, and which might
have led to the greatest results.  The Prince lodged then in one of the four grand suites of
apartments, on the same level as the Salon, the suite that was broken up during an illness
of Madame la Princesse de Conti, to make way for a grand stair case, the narrow and crooked
one in use annoying the King when he ascended it.  The chamber of the Dauphine was there; the
bed had its foot towards the window; by the chimney was the door of the obscure wardrobe by
which I entered; between the chimney and one of the two windows was a little portable bureau;
in front of the ordinary entrance door of the chamber and behind the bureau was the door of
one of the Dauphine's rooms; between the two windows was a chest of drawers which was used
for papers only.

There were always some moments of conversation before the Dauphin set himself down at his bureau,
and ordered me to place myself opposite him. Having become more free with him, I took the liberty
to say one day in these first moments of our discourse, that he would do well to bolt the door
behind him, the door I mean of the Dauphine's chamber.  He said that the Dauphine would not
come, it not being her hour.  I replied that I did not fear that princess herself, but the
crowd that always accompanied her.  He was obstinate, and would not bolt the door.  I did not
dare to press him more.  He sat down before his bureau, and ordered me to sit also.  Our deliberation
was long; afterwards we sorted our papers.  Here let me say this--Every time I went to see
the Dauphin I garnished all my pockets with papers, and I often smiled within myself passing
through the Salon, at seeing there many people who at that moment were in my pockets, and who
were far indeed from suspecting the important discussion that was going to take place.  To
return: the Dauphin gave, me his papers to put in my pockets, and kept mine.  He locked up
some in his cupboard, and instead of locking up the others in his bureau, kept them out, and
began talking to me, his back to the chimney, his papers in one hand, his keys in the other.
I was standing at the bureau looking for some other papers, when on a sudden the door in front
of me opened, and the Dauphine entered!

The first appearance of all three--for, thank God!  she was alone--the astonishment, the countenance
of all have never left my memory.  Our fixed eyes, our statue-like immobility, and our embarrassment
were all alike, and lasted longer than a slow Pater-poster.  The Princess spoke first.  She
said to the Prince in a very ill-assured voice, that she had not imagined him in such good
company; smiling upon him and upon me.  I had scarce time to smile also and to lower my eyes,
before the Dauphin replied.

"Since you find me so," said he, smiling in turn, "leave me so."

For an instant she looked on him, he and she both smiling at each other more; then she looked
on me, still smiling with greater liberty than at first, made a pirouette, went away and closed
the door, beyond the threshold of which she had not come.

Never have I seen woman so astonished; never man so taken aback, as the Prince after the Dauphine's
departure; and never man, to say truth, was so afraid as I was at first, though I quickly reassured
myself when I found that our intruder was alone.  As soon as she had closed the door, "Well,
Monsieur," said I to the Dauphin, "if you had drawn the bolt?"

"You were right," he replied, "and I was wrong.  But no harm is done. She was alone fortunately,
and I guarantee to you her secrecy."

"I am not troubled," said I to him, (yet I was so mightily) "but it is a miracle she was alone.
With her suite you would have escaped with a scolding perhaps but for me, I should have been
utterly lost."

He admitted again he had, been wrong, and assure me more and more that our secret was safe.
The Dauphine had caught us, not only tete-a-tete-- of which no one had the least suspicion--she
had caught us in the fact, so to say, our crimes in out hands.  I felt that she would not expose
the Dauphin, but I feared an after-revelation through some over-easy confidant.  Nevertheless
our secret was so well kept if confided that it never transpired.  We finished, I to pocket,
the Prince to lock up, the papers.  The rest of the conversation was short, and I withdrew
by the wardrobe as usual.  M. de Beauvilliers, to whom I related this adventure shortly afterwards,
grew pale at first, but recovered when I said the Dauphine was alone.  He blamed the imprudence
of the Dauphin, but assured me my secret was safe.  Ever since that adventure the Dauphine
often smiled upon me when we met, as if to remind me of it, and showed marked attention to me.

No sooner did I feel myself pretty firmly established on this footing of delicious intimacy
with the Dauphin than I conceived the desire to unite him with M. le Duc d'Orleans through
the means of M. de Beauvilliers.  At the very outset, however, an obstacle arose in my path.

I have already said, that the friendship of M. d'Orleans for his daughter, Madame la Duchesse
de Berry, had given employment to the tongues of Satan, set in Motion by hatred and jealousy.
Evil reports even reached M. le Duc de Berry, who on his part, wishing to enjoy the society
of his wife in full liberty, was importuned by the continual presence near her, of her father.
To ward off a quarrel between son-in- law and father-in-law, based upon so false and so odious
a foundation, appeared to Madame de Saint-Simon and myself a pressing duty.

I had already tried to divert M. le Duc d'Orleans from an assiduity which wearied M. le Duc
de Berry; but I had not succeeded.  I believed it my duty then to return to the charge more
hotly; and remembering my previous ill-success, I prefaced properly, and then said what I had
to say.  M. d'Orleans was astonished; he cried out against the horror of such a vile imputation
and the villainy that had carried it to M. le Duc de Berry. He thanked me for having warned
him of it, a service few besides myself would have rendered him.  I left him to draw the proper
and natural conclusion on the conduct he should pursue.  This conversation passed one day at
Versailles about four o'clock in the afternoon.

On the morrow Madame de Saint-Simon related to me, that returning home the previous evening,
from the supper and the cabinet of the King with Madame la Duchesse de Berry, the Duchess had
passed straight into the wardrobe and called her there; and then with a cold and angry air,
said she was very much astonished that I wished to get up a quarrel between her and M. le Duc
d'Orleans.  Madame Saint-Simon exhibited surprise, but Madame la Duchesse de Berry declared
that nothing was so true; that I wished to estrange M. d'Orleans from her, but that I should
not succeed; and immediately related all that I had just said to her father.  He had had the
goodness to repeat it to her an hour afterwards!  Madame de Saint-Simon, still more surprised,
listened attentively to the end, and replied that this horrible report was public, that she
herself could see what consequences it would have, false and abominable as it might be, and
feel whether it was not important that M. le Duc d'Orleans should be informed of it.  She added,
that I had shown such proofs of my attachment for them and of my desire for their happiness,
that I was above all suspicion.  Then she curtsied and leaving the Princess went to bed.  This
scene appeared to me enormous.

For some time after this I ceased entirely to see Duc d'Orleans and Madame la Duchesse de Berry.
They cajoled me with all sorts of excuses, apologies, and so forth, but I remained frozen.
They redoubled their excuses and their prayers.  Friendship, I dare not say compassion, seduced
me, and I allowed myself to be led away.  In a word, we were reconciled.  I kept aloof, however,
from Madame la Duchesse de Berry as much as possible, visiting her only for form's sake; and
as long as she lived never changed in this respect.

Being reconciled with M. d'Orleans, I again thought of my project of uniting him to the Dauphin
through M. de Beauvilliers.  He had need of some support, for on all sides he was sadly out
of favour.  His debauchery and his impiety, which he had quitted for a time after separating
himself from Madame d'Argenton, his mistress, had now seized on him again as firmly as ever.
It seemed as though there were a wager between him and his daughter, Madame la Duchesse de
Berry, which should cast most contempt on religion and good manners.

The King was nothing ignorant of the conduct of his nephew.  He had been much shocked with
the return to debauchery and low company.  The enemies of M. d'Orleans, foremost among whom
was M. du Maine, had therefore everything in their favour.  As I have said, without some support
M. d'Orleans seemed in danger of being utterly lost.

It was no easy matter to persuade M. de Beauvilliers to, fall in with the plan I had concocted,
and lend his aid to it.  But I worked him hard.  I dwelt upon the taste of the Dauphin for
history, science, and the arts, and showed what a ripe knowledge of those subjects M. d'Orleans
had, and what agreeable conversation thereon they both might enjoy together.  In brief I won
over M. de Beauvilliers to my scheme.  M. D'Orleans, on his side, saw without difficulty the
advantage to him of union with the Dauphin.  To bring it about I laid before him two conditions.
One, that when in the presence of the Prince he should suppress that detestable heroism of
impiety he affected more than he felt, and allow no licentious expressions to escape him. 
The second was to go less often into evil company at Paris, and if he must continue his debauchery,
to do so at the least within closed doors, and avoid all public scandal.  He promised obedience,
and was faithful to his promise.  The Dauphin perceived and approved the change; little by
little the object of my desire was gained.

As I have already said, it would be impossible for me to express all the joy I felt at my deliverance
from the dangers I was threatened with during the lifetime of Monseigneur.  My respect, esteem,
and admiration for the Dauphin grew more and more day by day, as I saw his noble qualities
blossom out in richer luxuriance.  My hopes, too, took a brighter colour from the rising dawn
of prosperity that was breaking around me.  Alas!  that I should be compelled to relate the
cruel manner in which envious fortune took from me the cup of gladness just as I was raising
it to my lips.

CHAPTER LIX

On Monday, the 18th of January, 1712, after a visit to Versailles, the King went to Marly.
I mark expressly this journey.  No sooner were we settled there than Boudin, chief doctor of
the Dauphine, warned her to take care of herself, as he had received sure information that
there was a plot to poison her and the Dauphin, to whom he made a similar communication.  Not
content with this he repeated it with a terrified manner to everybody in the salon, and frightened
all who listened to him. The King spoke to him about it in private.  Boudin declared that this
information was good, and yet that he did not know whence it came; and he stuck to this contradiction.
For, if he did not know where the information came from how could he be assured it was trustworthy?

The most singular thing is, that twenty-four hours after Boudin had uttered this warning, the
Dauphin received a similar one from the King of Spain, vague, and without mentioning whence
obtained, and yet also declared to be of good source.  In this only the Dauphin was named distinctly--the
Dauphine obscurely and by implication--at least, so the Dauphin explained the matter, and I
never heard that he said otherwise. People pretended to despise these stories of origin unknown,
but they were struck by them nevertheless, and in the midst of the amusements and occupations
of the Court, seriousness, silence, and consternation were spread.

The King, as I have said, went to Marly on Monday, the 18th of January, 1712.  The Dauphine
came there early with a face very much swelled, and went to bed at once; yet she rose at seven
o'clock in the evening because the King wished her to preside in the salon.  She played there,
in morning-dress, with her head wrapped up, visited the King m the apartment of Madame de Maintenon
just before his supper, and then again went to bed, where she supped.  On the morrow, the 19th,
she rose only to play in the salon, and see the King, returning to her bed and supping there.
On the 20th, her swelling diminished, and she was better.  She was subject to this complaint,
which was caused by her teeth.  She passed the following days as usual.  On Monday, the 1st
of February, the Court returned to Versailles.

On Friday, the 5th of February, the Duc de Noailles gave a very fine box full of excellent
Spanish snuff to the Dauphine, who took some, and liked it.  This was towards the end of the
morning.  Upon entering her cabinet (closed to everybody else), she put this box upon the table,
and left it there.  Towards the evening she was seized with trembling fits of fever. She went
to bed, and could not rise again even to go to the King's cabinet after the supper.  On Saturday,
the 6th of February, the Dauphine, who had had fever all night, did not fail to rise at her
ordinary hour, and to pass the day as usual; but in the evening the fever returned.  She was
but middling all that night, a little worse the next day; but towards ten o'clock at night
she was suddenly seized by a sharp pain under the temple.  It did not extend to the dimensions
of a ten sous piece, but was so violent that she begged the King, who was coming to see her,
not to enter.  This kind of madness of suffering lasted without intermission until Monday,
the 8th, and was proof against tobacco chewed and smoked, a quantity of opium, and two bleedings
in the arms.  Fever showed itself more then this pain was a little calmed; the Dauphine said
she had suffered more than in child-birth.

Such a violent illness filled the chamber with rumours concerning the snuff-box given to the
Dauphine by the Duc de Noailles.  In going to bed the day she had received it and was seized
by fever, she spoke of the snuff to her ladies, highly praising it and the box, which she told
one of them to go and look for upon the table in the cabinet, where, as I have said, it had
been left.  The box could not be found, although looked for high and low.  This disappearance
had seemed very extraordinary from the first moment it became known.  Now, joined to the grave
illness with which the Dauphine was so cruelly assailed, it aroused the most sombre suspicions.
Nothing, however, was breathed of these suspicions, beyond a very restricted circle; for the
Princess took snuff with the knowledge of Madame de Maintenon, but without that of the King,
who would have made a fine scene if he had discovered it.  This was what was feared, if the
singular loss of the box became divulged.

Let me here say, that although one of my friends, the Archbishop of Rheims, believed to his
dying day that the Duc de Noailles had poisoned the Dauphine by means of this box of Spanish
snuff, I never could induce myself to believe so too.  The Archbishop declared that in the
manner of the Duc de Noailles, after quitting the chamber of the Princess, there was something
which suggested both confusion and contentment.  He brought forward other proofs of guilt,
but they made no impression upon me.  I endeavoured, on the contrary, to shake his belief,
but my labour was in vain.  I entreated him, however, at least to maintain the most profound
silence upon this horrible thought, and he did so.

Those who afterwards knew the history of the box--and they were in good number--were as inaccessible
to suspicion as I; and nobody thought of charging the Duc de Noailles with the offence it was
said he had committed.  As for me, I believed in his guilt so little that our intimacy remained
the same; and although that intimacy grew even up to the death of the King, we never spoke
of this fatal snuff-box.

During the night, from Monday to Tuesday, the 9th of February, the lethargy was great.  During
the day the King approached the bed many times: the fever was strong, the awakenings were short;
the head was confused, and some marks upon the skin gave tokens of measles, because they extended
quickly, and because many people at Versailles and at Paris were known to be, at this time,
attacked with that disease.  The night from Tuesday to Wednesday passed so much the more badly,
because the hope of measles had already vanished.  The King came in the morning to see Madame
la Dauphine, to whom an emetic had been given.  It operated well, but produced no relief. 
The Dauphin, who scarcely ever left the bedside of his wife, was forced into the garden to
take the air, of which he had much need; but his disquiet led him back immediately into the
chamber. The malady increased towards the evening, and at eleven o'clock there was a considerable
augmentation of fever.  The night was very bad. On Thursday, the 11th of February, at nine
o'clock in the morning, the King entered the Dauphine's chamber, which Madame de Maintenon
scarcely ever left, except when he was in her apartments.  The Princess was so ill that it
was resolved to speak to her of receiving the sacrament. Prostrated though she was she was
surprised at this.  She put some questions as to her state; replies as little terrifying as
possible were given to her, and little by little she was warned against delay. Grateful for
this advice, she said she would prepare herself.

After some time, accidents being feared, Father la Rue, her (Jesuit) confessor, whom she had
always appeared to like, approached her to exhort her not to delay confession.  She looked
at him, replied that she understood him, and then remained silent.  Like a sensible man he
saw what was the matter, and at once said that if she had any objection to confess to him to
have no hesitation in admitting it.  Thereupon she indicated that she should like to have M.
Bailly, priest of the mission of the parish of Versailles.  He was a man much esteemed, but
not altogether free from the suspicion of Jansenism.  Bailly, as it happened, had gone to Paris.
This being told her, the Dauphine asked for Father Noel, who was instantly sent for.

The excitement that this change of confessor made at a moment so critical may be imagined.
All the cruelty of the tyranny that the King never ceased to exercise over every member of
his family was now apparent. They could not have a confessor not of his choosing!  What was
his surprise and the surprise of all the Court, to find that in these last terrible moments
of life the Dauphine wished to change her confessor, whose order even she repudiated!

Meanwhile the Dauphin had given way.  He had hidden his own illness as long as he could, so
as not to leave the pillow of his Dauphine.  Now the fever he had was too strong to be dissimulated;
and the doctors, who wished to spare him the sight of the horrors they foresaw, forgot nothing
to induce him to stay in his chamber, where, to sustain him, false news was, from time to time,
brought him of the state of his spouse.

