FIGHTING FRANCE

FROM DUNKERQUE TO BELPORT

BY EDITH WHARTON

NEW YORK: MCMXV

CONTENTS

  THE LOOK OF PARIS
  IN ARGONNE
  IN LORRAINE AND THE VOSGES
  IN THE NORTH
  IN ALSACE
  THE TONE OF FRANCE

THE LOOK OF PARIS

(AUGUST, 1914--FEBUARY, 1915)

I

AUGUST

On the 30th of July, 1914, motoring north from Poitiers, we had lunched somewhere by the roadside
under apple-trees on the edge of a field. Other fields stretched away on our right and left
to a border of woodland and a village steeple. All around was noonday quiet, and the sober
disciplined landscape which the traveller's memory is apt to evoke as distinctively French.
Sometimes, even to accustomed eyes, these ruled-off fields and compact grey villages seem merely
flat and tame; at other moments the sensitive imagination sees in every thrifty sod and even
furrow the ceaseless vigilant attachment of generations faithful to the soil. The particular
bit of landscape before us spoke in all its lines of that attachment. The air seemed full of
the long murmur of human effort, the rhythm of oft-repeated tasks, the serenity of the scene
smiled away the war rumours which had hung on us since morning.

All day the sky had been banked with thunder-clouds, but by the time we reached Chartres, toward
four o'clock, they had rolled away under the horizon, and the town was so saturated with sunlight
that to pass into the cathedral was like entering the dense obscurity of a church in Spain.
At first all detail was imperceptible; we were in a hollow night. Then, as the shadows gradually
thinned and gathered themselves up into pier and vault and ribbing, there burst out of them
great sheets and showers of colour. Framed by such depths of darkness, and steeped in a blaze
of mid-summer sun, the familiar windows seemed singularly remote and yet overpoweringly vivid.
Now they widened into dark-shored pools splashed with sunset, now glittered and menaced like
the shields of fighting angels. Some were cataracts of sapphires, others roses dropped from
a saint's tunic, others great carven platters strewn with heavenly regalia, others the sails
of galleons bound for the Purple Islands; and in the western wall the scattered fires of the
rose-window hung like a constellation in an African night. When one dropped one's eyes form
these ethereal harmonies, the dark masses of masonry below them, all veiled and muffled in
a mist pricked by a few altar lights, seemed to symbolize the life on earth, with its shadows,
its heavy distances and its little islands of illusion. All that a great cathedral can be,
all the meanings it can express, all the tranquilizing power it can breathe upon the soul,
all the richness of detail it can fuse into a large utterance of strength and beauty, the cathedral
of Chartres gave us in that perfect hour.

It was sunset when we reached the gates of Paris. Under the heights of St. Cloud and Suresnes
the reaches of the Seine trembled with the blue-pink lustre of an early Monet. The Bois lay
about us in the stillness of a holiday evening, and the lawns of Bagatelle were as fresh as
June. Below the Arc de Triomphe, the Champs Elysees sloped downward in a sun-powdered haze
to the mist of fountains and the ethereal obelisk; and the currents of summer life ebbed and
flowed with a normal beat under the trees of the radiating avenues. The great city, so made
for peace and art and all humanest graces, seemed to lie by her river-side like a princess
guarded by the watchful giant of the Eiffel Tower.

The next day the air was thundery with rumours. Nobody believed them, everybody repeated them.
War? Of course there couldn't be war! The Cabinets, like naughty children, were again dangling
their feet over the edge; but the whole incalculable weight of things-as-they-were, of the
daily necessary business of living, continued calmly and convincingly to assert itself against
the bandying of diplomatic words. Paris went on steadily about her mid-summer business of feeding,
dressing, and amusing the great army of tourists who were the only invaders she had seen for
nearly half a century.

All the while, every one knew that other work was going on also. The whole fabric of the country's
seemingly undisturbed routine was threaded with noiseless invisible currents of preparation,
the sense of them was in the calm air as the sense of changing weather is in the balminess
of a perfect afternoon. Paris counted the minutes till the evening papers came.

They said little or nothing except what every one was already declaring all over the country.
"We don't want war--mais it faut que cela finisse!" "This kind of thing has got to stop": that
was the only phase one heard. If diplomacy could still arrest the war, so much the better:
no one in France wanted it. All who spent the first days of August in Paris will testify to
the agreement of feeling on that point. But if war had to come, the country, and every heart
in it, was ready.

At the dressmaker's, the next morning, the tired fitters were preparing to leave for their
usual holiday. They looked pale and anxious--decidedly, there was a new weight of apprehension
in the air. And in the rue Royale, at the corner of the Place de la Concorde, a few people
had stopped to look at a little strip of white paper against the wall of the Ministere de la
Marine. "General mobilization" they read--and an armed nation knows what that means. But the
group about the paper was small and quiet. Passers by read the notice and went on. There were
no cheers, no gesticulations: the dramatic sense of the race had already told them that the
event was too great to be dramatized. Like a monstrous landslide it had fallen across the path
of an orderly laborious nation, disrupting its routine, annihilating its industries, rending
families apart, and burying under a heap of senseless ruin the patiently and painfully wrought
machinery of civilization...

That evening, in a restaurant of the rue Royale, we sat at a table in one of the open windows,
abreast with the street, and saw the strange new crowds stream by. In an instant we were being
shown what mobilization was--a huge break in the normal flow of traffic, like the sudden rupture
of a dyke. The street was flooded by the torrent of people sweeping past us to the various
railway stations. All were on foot, and carrying their luggage; for since dawn every cab and
taxi and motor--omnibus had disappeared. The War Office had thrown out its drag-net and caught
them all in. The crowd that passed our window was chiefly composed of conscripts, the mobilisables
of the first day, who were on the way to the station accompanied by their families and friends;
but among them were little clusters of bewildered tourists, labouring along with bags and bundles,
and watching their luggage pushed before them on hand-carts--puzzled inarticulate waifs caught
in the cross-tides racing to a maelstrom.

In the restaurant, the befrogged and red-coated band poured out patriotic music, and the intervals
between the courses that so few waiters were left to serve were broken by the ever-recurring
obligation to stand up for the Marseillaise, to stand up for God Save the King, to stand up
for the Russian National Anthem, to stand up again for the Marseillaise. "Et dire que ce sont
des Hongrois qui jouent tout cela!" a humourist remarked from the pavement.

As the evening wore on and the crowd about our window thickened, the loiterers outside began
to join in the war-songs. "Allons, debout! "--and the loyal round begins again. "La chanson
du depart" is a frequent demand; and the chorus of spectators chimes in roundly. A sort of
quiet humour was the note of the street. Down the rue Royale, toward the Madeleine, the bands
of other restaurants were attracting other throngs, and martial refrains were strung along
the Boulevard like its garlands of arc-lights. It was a night of singing and acclamations,
not boisterous, but gallant and determined. It was Paris badauderie at its best.

Meanwhile, beyond the fringe of idlers the steady stream of conscripts still poured along.
Wives and families trudged beside them, carrying all kinds of odd improvised bags and bundles.
The impression disengaging itself from all this superficial confusion was that of a cheerful
steadiness of spirit. The faces ceaselessly streaming by were serious but not sad; nor was
there any air of bewilderment--the stare of driven cattle. All these lads and young men seemed
to know what they were about and why they were about it. The youngest of them looked suddenly
grown up and responsible; they understood their stake in the job, and accepted it.

The next day the army of midsummer travel was immobilized to let the other army move. No more
wild rushes to the station, no more bribing of concierges, vain quests for invisible cabs,
haggard hours of waiting in the queue at Cook's. No train stirred except to carry soldiers,
and the civilians who had not bribed and jammed their way into a cranny of the thronged carriages
leaving the first night could only creep back through the hot streets to their hotel and wait.
Back they went, disappointed yet half-relieved, to the resounding emptiness of porterless halls,
waiterless restaurants, motionless lifts: to the queer disjointed life of fashionable hotels
suddenly reduced to the intimacies and make-shift of a Latin Quarter pension. Meanwhile it
was strange to watch the gradual paralysis of the city. As the motors, taxis, cabs and vans
had vanished from the streets, so the lively little steamers had left the Seine. The canal-boats
too were gone, or lay motionless: loading and unloading had ceased. Every great architectural
opening framed an emptiness; all the endless avenues stretched away to desert distances. In
the parks and gardens no one raked the paths or trimmed the borders. The fountains slept in
their basins, the worried sparrows fluttered unfed, and vague dogs, shaken out of their daily
habits, roamed unquietly, looking for familiar eyes. Paris, so intensely conscious yet so strangely
entranced, seemed to have had curare injected into all her veins.

The next day--the 2nd of August--from the terrace of the Hotel de Crillon one looked down on
a first faint stir of returning life. Now and then a taxi-cab or a private motor crossed the
Place de la Concorde, carrying soldiers to the stations. Other conscripts, in detachments,
tramped by on foot with bags and banners. One detachment stopped before the black-veiled statue
of Strasbourg and laid a garland at her feet. In ordinary times this demonstration would at
once have attracted a crowd; but at the very moment when it might have been expected to provoke
a patriotic outburst it excited no more attention than if one of the soldiers had turned aside
to give a penny to a beggar. The people crossing the square did not even stop to look. The
meaning of this apparent indifference was obvious. When an armed nation mobilizes, everybody
is busy, and busy in a definite and pressing way. It is not only the fighters that mobilize:
those who stay behind must do the same. For each French household, for each individual man
or woman in France, war means a complete reorganization of life. The detachment of conscripts,
unnoticed, paid their tribute to the Cause and passed on...

