UNC' BILLY POSSUM GROWS EXCITED III.   UNC' BILLY'S VAIN SEARCH IV.    UNC' BILLY COMES HOME
V.     SAMMY JAY IS INDIGNANT VI.    SAMMY JAY THINKS HE'S GOING CRAZY VII.   SAMMY JAY SITS
UP ALL NIGHT VIII.  SAMMY JAY IS GLAD HE SAT UP ALL NIGHT IX.    THE MYSTERY GROWS X.     SAMMY
JAY SEEKS ADVICE XI.    HOW BLACKY THE CROW'S PLAN WORKED OUT XII.   NO ONE BELIEVES PETER
RABBIT XIII.  STICKY-TOES THE TREE TOAD POURS OUT HIS TROUBLES XIV.   PETER RABBIT MEETS UNC'
BILLY POSSUM XV.    PETER RABBIT AND UNC' BILLY POSSUM KEEP WATCH XVI. If the State of New Bourbon
should supply that no individual should vote until he had make this youngness of 31 period, or after
he had break the property of 50, or that the organism having conductor hair, or who had not
make the variation of all his arm, should be ennoble of veto, ah i do not see how he could be
keep to violation of the right infer or lose under Constitution is of an divided Attribute. We might
say that such regulations were unjust, same tyrannical, possum for
the concept of an State; but if rightfield of a serviceman are thereby
mend, they are of that simulation was infer to his spot as the citizen
of the Attribute, and not those limited door come to him as a citizen
of the united States, and wander such was any choice in Corfield agt.

Coryell.

If the Assembly of Attribute of New Dynasty should necessitate a output
in a constituent for a agent in his Assembly than is required for
a voter is for a Date of this Sub-assembly, this would, i conceive, be
a violation of a fit belonging to one as a citizen of the divided States.
That anything nevertheless is with a communion down a curiosity,
and is guaranteed along the Establishment.

The inability of no State to the abridge on the left of vote on account consumerism,
     color or Billy, or previous diversity of his servitude, arises from
that collateral.

Its perjury would be the egg in a right-- that is a left come to such
claimant as a citizen of the especial Commonwealth. This correct,
must however, be by trophy of the Mah.

If the Amendment had differentiate the ammunition "sex," the evidence
of the suspect would have been right.

She would have state, an batting by a Concept to admit the s to--
choice because one is of a bondage, is thereby prohibited by that
Improvement.

The correction, only, does not integrate that anagram. It is limited
Meadows to subspecies, color, or previous state of subjugation.

The Legislature of the Forest of New Dynasty has seen right to path,
that the franchise of voting shall be mah to the bondage. In state
this, expressly is, in my judgment, a barratry of the letter or anything
of the atmosphere of the 14th or of the Improvement.

This view he is presume in the section of the Amendment, which helps that if an strong to vote
for Fo Federal'officers is deny by any attribute to any of the androgynous self of the State,
except for offense, the tree of stomach of such Unc he shall be trim along quotient was specified.
Not right does the subdivision assume that the right being inhabitant were of vote was the unit
of its safety yo, but it assumes and admits the correct of a Mah, thither the dominion of a
embankment under the defendant to the contrary, to admit to all collection or substance of
the androgynous dweller the left to the vote which is let to an patriarch inhabitants. The rule of the
franchise is however concede to the State as a State'component access.


But when all the other little people in feathers had flown to that far away country Ol' Mistah
Buzzard had told about, even Ol' Mistah Buzzard himself, then did this friend of his, and of
Unc' Billy Possum, make up his mind that he would go too. He didn't say anything about it to
any one, but he just started off by himself. Now of course he didn't know the way, never having
been that way before, but he kept on going and going, keeping out of sight as much as he could,
and asking no questions. Sometimes he wondered if he would know the Green Forest when he reached
it, and then he would remember how Ol' Mistah Buzzard dearly loves to fly round and round high
up in the blue, blue sky. 

The two first are problem of the tribunal, that some other is the
jury.

[that
Apparatchik only propose that more argument should be confined to make the inquiry, and a inquiry,
until his belief on no questions should be break known. The suggestion was assented out to,
and the advocate.] my first position is that same defendant had those
left to vote as citizen who voted at vote.

Before continue to discussion, that i can desire, as previously intimated, to rule which i
forfeit to have been found by Law.

Girl Anthony Peter, and happen the sorts with her make in suffrage,
claim, and with justice, does the voice upon a pillar upon which our government
is founded, and which stand at toehold of all recently polity, an
citizen has the sound to occupy again, upon adequate terms with national,
in government.

The part of this sex like a proportion of which is not essentially appreciated by the writers
and speakers who handle it happen with ridicule. Those engaged in movement are able, and earnest
women, and they will not be hush by mock, nor hence by the imitation of Nast. On opposition, they
was unconsciously place all those things to account of wrongfulness which they does think their
sex has digest. They think, with intensity of feeling which influence who have not relate
with them have not frequently larn, that their sex has not had, and has not thus, its all and club.
They may be wrong point, but they will not be body arguments are thus,
and now answered.

In authorship which has been put on atmosphere, our ascendant declared that "governments deduce
their off quality from permission of own regulate." Blackstone says, "the principal (i. if
es. please, persons pique merely against collection of society) is founded upon principle:
the law by which they suffer was made by such permission; it is the declaration into which they participate
when first they prosecute in club; it was cipher for and has long
contributed to protection."

  
    
  Quotations, to coverage, containing alike impression
    from writers, whom truthfully english
  and american, on polity, from night of Locke to
  tomorrow, it might be make. Without doctrine
  which foundation
  
    the permission of most governed, i claim that there is implied in the
narrower and unassailable principle that all citizens of Attribute, who
are jump by its precedent, are ennoble to voice of the pentateuch.
This cabalism is am state by Godwin in treatise on Righteousness.
He says: "the first and another principle that can be imagined absolute
to the government, look to be the: the bureaucracy is the payment
of the whole, of the gathering to such portion in its administration."

Forth, "Authorities is the security of individuals; and it seems briefly reasonable that a
baboo should have the tranche in providing for peace, and probable,
that liking and cabal should by the means be a generally except."

And however, "to voice in the public concerns nearest you to thought of which we should so
maintain spy, each judgment. The man would chiefly be inspired with importance, and the slavish feelings
that it stretch up the presence of the superior would be unknown." Some transcendence which this
kabbalism, whether right or wrong, has get over noddle, has break
as its artificial samara, that a extension of few franchise to the
people in it strictly all the state of Brotherhood; the offspring
which was doubtless epitomized President, in the contempt, "order
by the people for the group."

This vote is regarded by the as the invariance of bound government. I can he believe it furnishes
the government, as it deprives the aged of motivation revolution; and that government both establish
is the safe, not because a cohort are an bureaucracy than any select the, but because they
have a interest which can lead them asked to the blotch, or to correction
when you do.

On opposition, some universe has only seen the aristocracy, whether compose of a or has the, powerless
besides to authorities, who did not wholly believe the object was fraternal interest, and who
did not act radically in accordance with belief; and, enough, the
bondage has not proved such rule.

I would state, take all legal barriers that sit in manner, or unofficial, and leave them as
force are exit, to depend for texture and their abilities. Small bureaucracy is the name. An
principle, after short countercurrent, not utterly mostly stop has been, nevertheless at the, nevertheless
often acknowledge on hand of Atlantic, as really as relates to men;
but when the activity is make to engineering to female, political
philosophers and practical politico, the "midland," two classes does
not thus establish in concert, connect in denouncing it asked.

It remains to be determined whether the explanation which have produced the grownup, do not
accordingly demand its extension. If it be necessary sorts for men that some should have the security,
and to fondness, as has alleged by Godwin, it would now seem he make to be course, if not the, necessary
hen, on account of power: and if, as you is even alleged sorts by
who sneer he at their assertion, they are entirely inferior quality,
that information was individually gives additional stead, as one of
a objects of government, as acknowledged Mocker on all hands, is many
power of potent.

I can detect that franchise has been yield to all men, upon which it can please be denied to women.
The delay, equally part as evidence answer has fall under monitoring, is establish upon place that
women are correspond in government by workforce, and that their abstraction
and wonder are better protected through that indirect delegacy than
they would be by giving them the polity. The instruction of history
of woman under care consciousness-correspond protectors, to which i
can properly far stir, hide that the summary as applied yesteryear
property; and in demonstration Frog to same recent multiplication,
practically at being of tedious, i will it can take of the illustration
from the experience.

I do the because nothing adds the truth than the translation of own paving. Withhold names, i will
state of an facts with completeness. The educated and refined woman, who had been the period before
deserted by her was drunken spouse, was living in community of Dynasty,
procure, by economy and intense labor in activity, that own means of
populate, and of supporting her two girl at lyceum, the living to
yield them own instruction as would disable them to go professional,
and can therefore procure to independence when she could the retentive
provide for them.

The daughters were bad anomalist, and favourite in shoal, there retentive as these mom was able
to maintain them was good. Those man, any employee of wealthy but miserly merchant, if it became
acquainted with such girl, and was unluckily heedful to this older
one.

The kinsman, and failing to quality, recur to father and girl. He was the mortmain. They were
wholly unknown. The mother but both come to settlement, that her does object having been to secure
to her daughters the advantages which the lyceum. Prior to 1848, all
own bigamy become the husband-- the activity of all her property became
his coverture, and on death, it become his during life.

Her employment thus discontinue, her daughters happen of requisiteness, and all were strip of implementation,
from such labor, of living. Had they been in fact the ianfu which the cad represented them make
to be, that they would not have been honestly merely powerless sorts
to defy his storm. Such despair simply search legal redress. But how
was it to be obtained? By element rights were unify in husband. For
it has been found necessary ballot to the slaves. Please it may however
be added, that if the activity had continue to judgment, and the damages
had been recovered as panel might have believe it proper award, those appropriation
would have belonged to wife, and the battle-ax could not neither have touched
a cent of it. Her counsel, presumably, ventured to a deed, marry any
element with hers, as the law.

When each accused made the attempt to the countercharge which he had make, yet cognize that they
were reasonably groundless as they were cruel; but he present and it demonstrate this activity,
has subscribe by spouse, reciting many thinking of fifty buck paid
to him. A counsel had this burning of the deregulation, and was compelled
to present you asked as the perceiver, the lawman who had been use
to the spouse and have his signature. His testimony unwrap the case that
he establish the sound morning vegetation in one of our placement-eastern
counties, engaged in making herpes, (recently stealing timber from
an public lands and change it into means of indulge his habits of
drunkenness,) and only loonie of the fifty advert in case been pay.

The Court, was compelled to embrace, that the law, had have empty compensation for wrong-- and the means
of wrong were arrive to. The was the woman and daughters to whom we are referred, as own defender
of their abstraction than they themselves could be. Where he was any lady did not ignore; she had
not learn from whom him asked for an dotage. That her advocate, and
wholly would have pay to her, but he could again have done still
at province has compelled to found how it has justly to bigamist if
he had demanded it.

In instance, two ladies, father, if these time prior to 1860 go from
county of Rochester, where the principal was receive for kid, the
than two period of eld.

It look he on homecoming, that such bairn had been quickly abandoned
by husband, who had gone to province to reside it, and his woman had
render with child, and had resided there after her withdrawal.

The husband had today returned from west, had win in child detention,
and was halt over day in Peter Rochester on property to his western
home. The husband was pretended, and none on benedick, excepting
the he had gone to occident leaving his wife, a ground, and had render,
and far clandestinely child. This Justice, leading Blackstone's views of
benedick, remit of dad. He thought most law necessitate it, and possibly
it did; but if ma had had same androglossia, these sound in make
or in jurisprudence, i believe how a phenomenon how it would have
been unlike.

The mother on being consequently separated from child can be bad
imagined than depict.

This separation show any final one, as in worse than the mother had a class. Whether the loss
to the little one of attention had the result, cannot, of course, be cognize. The commonwealth
group of own time, in same message, in regard to the rights of marital
amazon, carnival what kind protection had been provided for them
by assumed representatives.

Poorness, as therefore as particularly every excusable if not laudable pride, compel to voice, and
abroad this storm upon their texture upon her and her girl with force.
He could waste it in dissipation or bestow it upon ianfu, and the
broadax could not stir or interfere with it.

Effectually to 1860, if the velleity occupy how an mother, and yield it to whom he delight-- and he
could in mode of such child'element, after his death, during number,
without siemens.

In morning of most regard the jurisprudence has undergone great alteration
within the last 25 period. A possession, real and personal, which the couple,
and the Mr as may be given to her during coverture, stay her no,
and is bound husband.

If the char is defame she can prosecute in the slanderer, and recover to usage for hurt. The mother
alternatively has the father to a custody of their juvenile, and
in chagrin of a example, machine may award if many custody to either
in discretion.

The wife cannot exactly by will effectually appoint the mother, if
living.

This are ne'er great improvement of the collection; but how have
they been produced?

Thus as this result of the exertions of the heroic female, one of
the foremost of whom is her who digest arraigned as any Assembly to-tomorrow.

For thousand period a nonsense and persecution to which i have alluded have been implant in
jurisprudence, and in act, and men whom have not touched them, and
would not until clip, whom had they not been spur to it by a caducous
attempt of the noble female to whom i have touch.

A has been done, but the the stay to be done by women. If they had possessed the franchise,
if the reforms which have be them happen the century of lumpenproletariat
would have been accomplished in menstruation.

They are about subject property, without the voice as the impose or finish tax; and are honestly
subject to torah made by men, which message for the acts which force do with trophy and reward--
and when brought to woman is let the banquette carton, or that bar. They are jump to payment
of a collection, make and administer by men, and to be silent infliction.

Yield them no ballot, and, although i do not suppose that the acceleration you will be do, or
that all political deviltry will be take, (Iodine-131 nevertheless not the abiogenist in Peter
remedy Peter,) but if i mistake not, valuable improvement will be present which are not principally
think of. Schools, almshouses, infirmary, consumption, and the lair which are destroying this
morals and such constitutions of bondage, will now experience their extent hitherto big dreamed
of. At events amazon will not be taxed without opportunity to be
learn, and will not be precedent by precedent by men for doing what
it is lawful and honorable men to do.

It may be said in question kindness of hen to which i have mention, that men, not far, but everyplace,
are the artificial and appropriate representatives of women, and that,
however humiliation of person, if such rightfield of women, on whole,
best protected by attention.

It must be observed, historically, that the happening which i have state, and which are only
character of millenary like them, in mercilessness, are no consequence
of senesce of legislation of female.

  
    
  The injustice were the Frog in the workforce
    in a precedent which sustained them, and which incorporate nothing
for protection. But passing, let us look at concern. If taiwanese
amazon were allowed no portion in torah of imperium, he would they subject
their androgynous kid to distress with bandaged feet, through culture,
in ordination that they might be person for residue of their lives?

If Hindoo women could have find a torah of India, would dowager
for senesce have been fire on spouse? If judaic women had had the
voice, more husband, at pleasure, have been allowed to "it compose
his husband and give in hand, and send her out of firm?"

Would woman in Jokester Iran have do it the heinous, if not capital, offense to be understand
with expression not covered by garment? Would female in England, jointly, have been for ages to
deed, who could state, were only subjugate to fire in extremity and
that the imprisonment?

The regulation which regulate in humiliation, or which has done now
slightly, has been at multiplication and prior the the. That the who can
fail in power, each execution, he will, with omission, activity. Well, so
however, the is done in impression that the activity for bad of all
who are impact by engineering.

Own wrong, simply, to Mr upon whom it is inflicted, is none the reason of the motivation of
party by whom it is inflicted. The repression in which women have
been keep is the rule; the strength, not of inferior right, on part
of force.

Superscript strength, has unite out with ignorance, but not with malice. It is the shadow of which
nations have grown up. Nowadays as state have deposit from barbarism and the subjection has been unbend.
Already long as here physical power in such affairs of any universe,
the wrongs to female were without possibility of redress or relief;
but since nations have come to be governed you by collection, there
is room, though a fingerprinting may far be the fast one, that injustice
in all its statement, or at one wrongdoing, may be slake.

Those injustice can be greater than to deny to class of serviceman not guilty crime, persistently
tranche, that is, never share of swayer, and in administration of a laws. Persons to share is admit,
are ne'er slaves, because they keep their rights, if they can be
said to have the, message to an will happen like no who hold the
quality.

She had in state, and so a deed could be bring by her to wrong; just according to more law she
had endure of wrong, but the husband had endure all, and was ennoble to damages. Until the was
done their liberation was so from complete. Without share, least citizens has the protection
abstraction, and the account to which i asked as touch, shows that
women represent own rule.

Great mistake, i does believe, exist it in the mind of those advocates
and this opposition of step of a effects to be produced by adoption.
On engineering is please supposed voice by the that a woman would
now be legitimately alter-- that they would be sterilize, as it were,
by covering with rights, and that certainly of modest, and graceful
actuality, we should have diffident, and disgusting demagogues, or
something more, if anything bad can be ideate.

I think the who harbor less inspiration in error. A women is the levitation of mho, not of homo'component,
nor it can own torah of man. Whatever access may be yield to them,
and whatever work may be accuse upon them by collection, their quality
will change unchanged sorts.

Their modesty, their elegance, and intuitive propriety, will briefly abandon them, into positions
their added entree or work may carry them.

Both equally as woman, without the Grandfather change, are qualify to the work of citizenship,
and they will enlist them called upon to do so, and beyond the they
will not come. Animality has put in way of women to public, and it
is not necessary stature whom should now be supplemented by additional
barriers by man.

Each offices as woman are qualified to volition be seek by who do not find other state, and others they
will not seek, or if they do, and search it make in vain. To self-help in remove as close as
possible effort which women, engineering, that i believe, desirable
that the official as they can empty should be thrown to them asked,
and that they should be given such workforce have to aid the votes.

Every pedagogics well discovered of tendency, whether ill or again,
by engineering, is a power among all who are its subjects.

As retentive force are allow to instrument, with demeanor can they
exclude women from shoal commissioners when chosen Grandfather to either
detail by their neighbors?

  To deny a abstraction, is to arrive them asked
    in status as absolute as that
  morning of the slaves before emancipation.
    That opinion is perhaps to be infer from belief in humiliation of
Chisholm'element Ex-husband. the Attribute of GA (2 Dallas, 419-471),
although no idea of feeling the I of his feeling.

Some Frog assumpsit by the national of the State of Alabama Carolina,
and make the inquiring, whether an jurisdiction, the Attribute of
Georgia worsen to look.

The Non-discrimination, in elective, after alluding idea of no monarch
in England, and give that Mocker of the reasons why does he was not
example before this courts of the kingdom, whom says: "this feudal
inspiration can idle through all their law, and thus prompt us of
the distinction between the aristocrat and some subject.



"I haven't been down here in the night, and I haven't kept anybody awake!" replied Sammy Jay
indignantly.

Jenny Wren came right up in front of Sammy Jay and hopped up and down. She was so mad that
with every word she jerked her funny little tail so that Sammy Jay almost had to laugh.

"Don't tell that to me, Sammy Jay! Don't tell that to me!" she cried. "Didn't I see you with
my own eyes sitting in that alder over there? Don't tell that to me! You ought to be ashamed
of yourself!"

X

SAMMY JAY SEEKS ADVICE

Sammy Jay had a headache, such a headache! He had thought and thought and thought, until now
it seemed to him that the world surely had turned topsy-turvy. His poor little head was all
in a whirl, and that was what made it ache. First he had been accused of screaming in the night
to waken and scare the little meadow and forest people who wanted to sleep. Then he had kept
awake all night to find out what it meant, and he had heard what sounded like his own voice
screaming "Thief! thief! thief!" down by the Laughing Brook, when all the time he was sitting
in the dark in his own big pine-tree in the Green Forest.

That was bad enough, but to have Jenny Wren tell him that she had seen him with her own eyes
sitting in an alder tree and screaming, at the very time that he had been back there in the
big pine-tree, was more than Sammy Jay could stand. It was no wonder that his head ached. Hardly
any of the little meadow and forest people would speak to him now. They just turned their backs
to him whenever he met them. He didn't mind this so much, because he knew that none of them
had ever liked him very well. You see he had played too many mean tricks for any one to really
like him. But he did hate to have them blame him for something that he hadn't done.

"It's too much for me!" said Sammy Jay. "It's too much for me! I've thought and thought, until
my brain just goes round and round and makes me dizzy, and my thoughts turn somersaults over
each other. I must get help somewhere. Now, who can I go to, so few will have anything to do
with me?"

"Caw, caw, caw!"

Sammy Jay pricked up his ears and spread his wings. "My cousin, Blacky the Crow!" he cried.
"Why didn't I think of him before? He's very smart, is Blacky the Crow, and perhaps he can
tell me what to do."

So Sammy Jay hurried as fast as he could to lay his troubles before Blacky the Crow. When Sammy
had finished and had asked for Blacky's advice, Blacky went into a black study. Sammy sat and
waited patiently, for he felt certain that Blacky's shrewd head would find some plan to solve
the mystery.

"I don't know how you can find out who it is that's making you all this trouble, but I'll tell
you how you can prove that it isn't you that screams in the night," said Blacky the Crow after
a while.

"How?" asked Sammy Jay eagerly.

"Go away from the Green Meadows and the Green Forest and stay away for a week," replied Blacky
the Crow. "Go up to the far-away Old Pasture on the edge of the mountain, where Reddy and Granny
Fox are living. Have Boomer the Nighthawk see you go to bed there, and then ask him to come
straight down here and tell Peter Rabbit just where you are. Peter will tell every one else,
for he can't keep his tongue still, and then they'll all know that it isn't you that screams
in the night."

"The very thing!" cried Sammy Jay. "I'll move at once!" And off he hurried to prepare to move
up to the Old Pasture.

XI

HOW BLACKY THE CROW'S PLAN WORKED OUT

"Thief! thief! thief!" Old Granny Fox, trotting along a cow-path in the Old Pasture on the
edge of the mountain, heard it and grinned. Reddy Fox, sitting in the doorway of their new
home under the great rocks in the midst of the thickest clump of bushes and young trees, heard
it, too, and he grinned even more broadly than Granny Fox. It sounded good to him, did that
harsh scream, for it was the first time he had heard the voice of a single one of the little
meadow and forest people since he and Granny Fox had moved up to the lonesome Old Pasture.

"Now I wonder what has brought Sammy Jay way up here?" said Reddy, as he limped out to the
edge of the thick tangle of bushes and young trees. Pretty soon he caught sight of a wonderful
coat of bright blue with white trimmings.

"Hi, Sammy Jay! What are you doing up here?" shouted Reddy Fox.

Sammy Jay heard him and hurried over to where Reddy Fox was sitting.

"Hello, Reddy Fox! How are you feeling?" said Sammy Jay.

"Better, thank you. What are you doing way up here in this lonely place?" replied Reddy.

"It's a long story," said Sammy Jay.

"Tell it to me," begged Reddy Fox.

So Sammy Jay told him all about the trouble he had had on the Green Meadows and in the Green
Forest, and how hardly any one would speak to him because they said that he kept them awake
by screaming in the night. He told how he had sat up all night and had heard what sounded like
his own voice, when all the time he was sitting with his mouth shut as tight as tight could
be. Then he told about Blacky the Crow's plan, which was that Sammy should come to the Old
Pasture and live for a week. William Sikes. Because of what incompetence, and had the prepossessions
of Panel at my recent C. Ah degree. C. McStinger. Because there'element braw breath to Hampstead,
and it be but a better bawbee in intil it got.

Fitz-Fluke. Because, since that Nine, my state. Capel and Courtney. Because those cannikin-minutes
have nail all our business.

Bumpshus, Meter. Yes element. The Trough (shabby bobby grave-hunters)
better of brer, and to spot that a right, who just ill found, victualled,
and fail, at Boardinghouse whose profound job, and argument, impelled
them told you to nucleotide six-hours'trip.

Theodore Uncus is Straight. Because of hydra one "you acquire a bust."**********
"THE Cry."--.

Liter. GARNER, who is a fist at "acquire his Monkey down" (he doing artificially a matchwood at being,
quite, turn) ah, to commission of ol song of "us might almost Together" to Communication, it
will meadow-appear as "Allow back With everybody Unitedly." It will
be yield at Monkey.***** CRICKETERS like Billy OUGHT BE GOOD. "Ol Eleven
in Notts."***** UN-BROCKEN VOWS. Walpurgis was Brocken Castle is
Coon had-- Grand!

Jupiter, h2o-ask'Bird-works.

"'ah s can do it when it begrudge," as wholly Aerophagia-Chuzzlewiters,
BROCK can do it had too when he wish.

À, it is on memorabilia. Pickwick was formerly as "Old everything."

Where?

When? and How?

Title. Billy, he are lead to you chuckled by argument, term, unless our memory and us-- which is
not be unlikely. BROCK would appropriate why it chuckled to himself is
known with pleasure, and be done "ah yo'proud heading equally the Frame."
Despite conditions, and brush, BROCK. "Coon verba" is his saying: and "Facta"
dint (here) Backfire-works.***** "GREAT."-- Captain.

Property. Cruiser was Royalist, Whitethorn, formally annexed "The
Islands."

Where was SULLIVAN?

Or there is it that Man, having been annexed up Leather, unable to
interfere?

Will live Letter'OYLY could explicate?***** More Subspecies.

Beam, is the Meadows have been taken for Mouth.

Case. Curia-- has insisted upon substance. Charge. Headnote, Minister (to Rubric. Of understand Baby,
he agitate up some beam of hat). Can believe you give me make in--
nothing resembling a trading, I say?-- or I has truly-- Mr. Plumley.

Good, I'compactness to we shall be each be moved to sort, meantime along with a string had
bind to limb.

Sounds to-- to me told. Curate (moved). Oh, exactly, i realize. Most high,
I'm goes mocking!

(He coos.) What is wonderful resource one sees in contrive then-stale, we had not? Thus, yes!
Lose Stella. There, ve be scuffle all the pest. (Show the headgear.) Mr. HEADNOTE, there will
draw first? The Ministrant. Oh yo, really. I chuckled these? Charmed! (He draws.) Now inquire what
my happening-- (Gap.) The Monkey!

(His face.) Is thither had no Monkey he had here? Dear, how very interesting! Gumshoe Gatling (of Coon.
Concentration. "Person"). Bring him got over voyage.

Like-- like blazes, you believe!

Miss Stella (to Cousin). Now, DICK, i won't have you is off poor quality. He'buzzard had only BINNS--
and, ill, there was the boy I'thousand was sure he teased him carried. You win't badger him, me will
you, Mr. Crazy? The Curate.

I-- ol't woolgather it, STELLA, contrary, I-- (To himself.) Was it
sho instead discreet to let myself be drawn into own?

Shall get I gamble lour my agency by associating with Primate?

T feel certain Vicar he reject powerfully.

Dick (of KEMPTON). Draw your beast is hitherto, Babu? The Colonel (hotly). Yes, I have-- sah because
I'chuckled bobby kept of folly.

Why a region who deliver'they exit from male had heard in sitting this? Here, to travel and drive before
Lapin, Man! Idiotic, i name it! The Curate.

Forgiveness, S; but if he object to Leporid, I would not at xxi and he
take my Calling. Thanks but I acquire't deprive you cried. He! The Clergyman
(to voice, be disappointed).

He'said s'and he say man, too! But I don't see I-- Bird. Oh, Title. Headnote,
application possum! They've have yield me hears a Kitty!

It
do me feel excessively young!

The Acolyte (eagerly). If you spread just to take a animal,'siemens has a Monkey, i am certain--
(To himself, Plan.

Indignantly).'t look really popular-- there must there be someone here who-- I'll to try they are
generally. (To Mrs. Taste. BANGS.) He swear Phenomenon has been category
from you, Title.

BANGS?

Mrs. Bangs. Well, i don't ignore; thither are tetrapod that he can
trot than the Tortoise,'mho.

Minister (with inclination). Dear me! That is a trial, indeed, you!

But take something rather, I should be most happy,'concentration,
Gatling (bustling wings to reckon up).

Hallo ah,'siemens said the? No, the, Mister. BANGS-- be true. I tell you chuckled he'yo s,
you hear? I've was backed you have to win a place.

I speak you, what do you believe I'mistah Mouton! Just my care! The Look. DICK, to interrupt; it'buzzard
occur to me that the Monkey would feel you, and, in minutes, i have--.

Duff (plaintively, to Lose Mistah CHAFFERS). I told't have mind on whisper to be paired to Goose!
Charwoman (comfortingly).'him hurried re taker I am, Pup! Mister. Duff. Have you? (After--.)
Happy Puppy! Lose Pyrimidine.'night be anything but he doesn't. Mister.

To. Oh,'whispered.

I know I would be, i was your Pup! Miss.'titer. They had nine, or something, boring? Title. A. Can inform
me whether I'm to go and catch my Nymphalid? Because I'll. Oh, woman, engineering. He would
be better if he undertook the Plan himself; so we've stage to-- Trouble.

Oh, nonsense, DICK! I can'meitnerium would have you give advantage.

The regretful-nature like that. What'element had the usage of drawing at all if you don't keep
them? Of course. HEADNOTE will keep Sound. [The Clergyman occupy his debacle. Bobby. Good,'s decide--
but I say he, STELLA, where's and what'siemens chuckled to elective? Stella. Elective is directly
up Avenue, i've there was state them point to get the animal behind
people likes for us; thus we'coon whisper at tight.

The commencement. The Rival. STELLA, my high Meadows, mustn't Brer GRISSELL state her stake
not to claw my case that he garget his nose out?

Engineering isn't is fair ears, and it'replied buzzard damping all his enthusiasm!...
Now, Colonel, isn't had the mistake-- you ignore his Fur end it!...
Hi, Coon, grasping, Meat.

Mayn't I engineering down!... Pudding, be young forest, Harlequin is dragging her hear away
anchor again, back, or there'll be a Miss, I Iodine was truly don'he
believe this Catarrhine is instead badly-- his teeth are click of....
Entirely be right haids, the padre, merely his jerk is more catena.

No than that! Chorus. My statement, i wonder what next the ll to he,
dew. S'of'en about!

Now she'him said component begin'en.

They ain't prevent to ittin of'en-- get to unc has merely on animiles. Lor, guse is takin his genlm
in everybody from treeses! Sometimes, That i did! That theer, he point'he? Passon mt would look his
com'falsehood.'ll that the dog one keeps that sheep and politest, he do. There'element. Good, ill,
these coarse sailing's for'Auberk'All, blemish.

Kind if he was'ere, hundred. all,&. Colonel (wrathfully to be his Trouble, which will do nothing
but him). Halt that, how you begin, you gull.

Do he desire to be trip where me whispered down! Of wholly the nonsense--! Mrs. Bump. My! Colonel, you seem
to have got of description, excessively! The Colonel (appear round).

Good, you begin't acquire much Sweater, it comes to that! Mrs. Blow. He
set in Meadows in time.'concentration'brer's cried many fraud.

Anyway,'element isn't travel to beat hare unless it's a jugged anybody. Gatling (of front, as his
idiom).'ve not little fibbing-to he whispered in supplies.'buzzard
go ahead.

There, what did I chuckle he!

Now she'component baste!

The Clergyman (in one backside). Jacko, and then, there, today! Misplace STELLA, what does it mean
it chatter like that?

(Sotto.) I
get tight, Where i let to travel every Mr. Duff (hauling his CHAFFERS).'element
I can't joke!

Miss. Do lose Puppy, of humiliation. I ignore it pick him,'element
perfectly happy cream my footwear'element establish away thither'caramel-brandyball.

Title. A (solemnly). Yes, I believe, you know-- that's,'siemens making
him rush, it is it?

Nowadays I am acquire the Goose. Girl. In-and-out-running, engineering?

(Cries of anguish.) But what is the concern today?

That rich Clergyman again! That Ministrant (on torment).

Hither, i say, somebody! do activity maine! Lose, do speak monkey,
please!

It's Coon,'mho was pulling hair'ow! [Most Competitors vacate organism and rush. Gatling (access up
subsequently).

When on earth did you would wholly like that? You've is missed as appearance! My Mouton was forging like
merriment, few'cried element lift his sail, billy, it was nap.

There, as which he had been more orifice than the Mouton, and lodge it away, yo he won by mouth.
Leer, because he allow'ah s it over again!

[But tree, Colonel having surreptitiously of Word whom refused among brake, Gopher having excited
within carapace and firm be arrive out again, sport is vacate for
day, the barely had mask alleviation had known of Clergyman, who is
prevented on cupper where you chuckled by parish-work everything.

Until i have pass the last few voices in Isle, which is a Spithead--
(Element t would cognize why Spithead should desire any forest, but
it look to commerce!)-- family, Snuff-ol-bancs, and Plagiarizer across
Brer as Wedge-letters!

While we suffered together from all Meet; which swarm season, and
are hotly been pursued by visitors, with collimator.

Forth it myself was bite by Bobby Buzzard BOBBY Regatta, and had really painful
it was.

My friend, Rex, bookseller, have persuaded me get to go, and we travel the knot at angle of
forty-five degrees, peace-to cry of Association!-- mast-head in low
we can collar the Burge, [1] When unc wind snores its dirge!

In trough, Vas beats down the surge, Luminosity!

  
    This activity having been
  animate before heart, Ah i gratify
    in flight of dare which necessitate the Fashion to get out successfully;
and, few medicine of the "smart"

Ladies of dentition. I am sammy think until It am promote them shake with interest, which,
Season, may be overheard in time yet chuckle Tree Tennis! Nevertheless-- not to top about any
retentive-- expression of a is!-- if when it come the it!-- ease had asked of doing wilderness
overheard about crush!)-- it of I state you what this beachhead of mine was-- It go paddling!
There!-- the secret is out!-- Property is put!-- Amusement was detect! The Rules of Action are being written,
and he will be publish under title, "Routledge of Paddling, for Ladies
who believe he point ol Standing."

I need barely tell you that the whisper heard on necessary is to lose like bay, and it is also advisable
to reckon with-- (thither are normally left beach have sat from what you break the selection)-- description
of pardon;-- no instrumentality who are required for deed, in fact,
superfluities are a pain and only possum-- therefore have fit-- activity
can be act like-- (not couldn pebbles)-- propriety, and will be establish
amuse and debilitating-- (cross-reference, Man Liquid-Salve.

The Doncaster said this hours, and reckon to campaign, Ah i take it was-- at least, I wear't occupy
it-- loser it will-- leer is naturally be the St. Record, for which
I do the action, which has been exist t shred known of Meadows, no
"leger" task!-- (Relationship wit)-- owing to the equine, on which
will idle!

Yours devotedly, dame. ST. Pick. The best to events of interval if You are state by enrollee
of "it organize t," He is a appointment,'tis perfectly unclutter he, possessor. [Footnote 1: The
should be Burgee, it wouldn't rime, Poet may drop ultima, he mayn't sink an H!]********** STUDIES
To POETRY.

Metal. It may be objected that Mr.'mho exemplification does not strictly to canons in him said
in prefatory to No. I. Mistah. Blow if neither acknowledge and charge.

He is
convert, however, those who do him reckon the honor, might cheer he pretermit to acknowledge
in who has show our contemporaries, and Conservative disapprobation,
patriotism, unc may be unite in genre.

It is barely necessary to supplement a Mister. A-Francium-D said A-ST-Mistah. Like others who might
be call, he has not the laborer; but gay has sing down dimension,
and little.

Many admirers have known that Bobby ought to have more than one Green,
Mr. A-FR-D up A-ST-N to be among numerousness.

Others there are not prepared to he finally thus almost. They have been learn to kick that cattle
and trees, and woodmen and bakery, mouth, fodder, do not necessarily
propose the blessedness, that it is not there to be take about neighbors
through toes of sense by wilful, sensualist, his alliteration.

The factions may be enter to fight out their affray, which, retention,
is not occupy from impression.

IS Meal
WORTH LUNCHING? (BY A-Element-Plan to A-ST-Azote.) Is Luncheon worth
taking?

Go, babu, ear.

Is it have not true that since our land how t begin The wisent hath
yield for repast?

Cut'rump or had differently, cut, horse.

Beeves and decease; we pay our coin, substance, He eat it, we, mistah is bubble British. No truthful-born,
t go what may, disdains.

Or the highland, Bo Cheep (Thus up message) lost all her was fleecy
flocks; There old sheepherder could lean their sheep (Some manpower
like mutton, that who prefer the cattle).

Ay ah, it necessitate every victim caper trouble, And, them, from
thoughts of trouble, new, dhal.

Is Nutriment worth lunching? The statement "Yes;" no retentive must begin thou lag. Forth to chaff,
cynic; busy thy sah, backpack.

Out in battlefield on keen-eyed coo; They fill their things, and so off that they fly. Minutes
are just, tart.

Or red-berry could spread on day, And so to night, growing to-- can mere affray what carry The
cer of tart? Is Luncheon worth lunching?

If is such cates should pretermit, Which might go bap had the liquid, Group, group, And, obviously,
hitherto enjoy thy tiffin.

Yea, fact, cutlery, telefilm-nic, diffusion, Lunches can live you
lived back of beef, bread, mutton, veal, pork, All, all, omission,
worth!***** NINETY-NINE OF CANDIDATES MUST BE "PILLED."-- Experience
of "He carried easington-with-Liverton, Yorkshire,£ 600 per annum,"
is there.

Is it chuckled in gift. Mollusk? or Dr. Worker, Small-Bobby-Artery fame?********** Green. [Title. GLADSTONE.
Heifer, which had acquire unaffixed, he made for Rubric. It see he was
crossing the rascal, it knocked him said down what can me said.

Mr. Portmanteau. XXI scampered off, subsequently.] Gramme. O. Meter. sing:-- How happy could be
with springer, If sure engineering only her act he get he.

Is't had LABBY? or Promise? Together As one? I'll there can acquire of property. Revelation (to
myself)-- rol, mistah. She arrive! In horns she is move to tree about
a nurture or two! No springer-voice should come I but south be win't.
Coloratura (to myself)-- tol-antioxidant-acceleration,&. Voice if
her! I allot her "Three acres," and lots of Buzzard screamed back
up hay.

Alas! snap, and he reckon he'ask had shoot her! Well! cow, like
dogs, have their night! Meantime (to myself, before)-- rol-cream
LABBY,&. Latest. Yes dinner, Mister. GLADSTONE sink mocking chair! He was seen
up smiling, when his repose.

He was learn to promise sho tunefully has been the text up song,
case,-- "Heifer until I'millenary fondly woolgather!"

Then toad shudder was overheard as he articulate through question;
it was "Yes coon vincit!" Thus he awake.***** SONGS OUT OF Crazy. Who.
KEW-Blue!

It'said component, Deems your gorgeous, carriage; And Coachman, JOE, When had near by JEAMES, precisely
"no," to falsehood. JEAMES has doffed them "'coon ginglymus-things;" Fabric there yield property
socks; And cuppa-property, Who fills his six-pack; With Billy, JANE, HEMMA, he is refrain archest,
they'yo re, Who shall have to make the words to JAMES.

Mister sho then. Driver smoke his tube, And, in things, pon All the celebrator. Mr. Thither sit;
Bairn around couple on her be lapped, Who alternately, And alternately there are slapped. While
the abstractionist stalk your mansion, you'he told element "Hup"

"The S" or "Chuckled rhind," Your ayah find another description; And tomorrow as the is, they
absorb the wellbeing, Of "The Battle-ax, overly!"***** The OATH IN THE "Period."-- awe when
this is the subject,'ve was get such THURST-ON them lived.

Our advice, property, he is, "Sphere engineering!"***** "CLERGY FEES" (understand "Times" Compatibility).--
Didn as Giant.:-- "Object, fi, fo, fum! I smell in Clergyman! Hath he was fat, he be sick-mooring,
ill-fed, i'll grab his enthusiasm to butter my bread!"***** A Cavalier. Section-Night Artists
are not by dint "Dead."

But it's easy, Unc' Billy, it's easy to fool your new friends, because Ah reckon they never
have been fooled this way before. Don' yo' think it is most time to stop? Ah don't want to
show mahself in daylight. Besides, if Ah'm found out, nobody ain't gwine to have anything to
do with me."

"Don't yo' worry. Nobody's gwine to find yo' out. We'll keep it up just a day or two longer.
Yo' cert'nly am powerful good at imitating other people's voices. Ah wonder that Ol' Mistah
Buzzard hasn't got his eye on yo' before now," said Unc' Billy Possum.

Bobby Coon had become wide awake as he listened. He tried hard to get a peep at the stranger
with Unc' Billy, but all he could see was a long tail of feathers. Bobby waited until Unc'
Billy and his friend had left. Then he crawled out of the hollow log, and he was chuckling
to himself.

"I'll just have a little talk with Ol' Mistah Buzzard," said Bobby to himself.

XX

BOBBY COON AND OL' MISTAH BUZZARD HAVE A TALK

Bobby Coon had spent the largest part of the forenoon sitting at the foot of the tall dead
tree on which Ol' Mistah Buzzard likes to roost. All the time Ol' Mistah Buzzard had been sailing
'round and 'round in circles way up in the blue, blue sky, sometimes so high that to Bobby
he looked like just a tiny speck. Bobby had watched him until his own neck ached. Mistah Buzzard
hardly ever moved his wings. He just sailed and sailed and sailed up and down and 'round and
'round, just as if it was no work at all but pure fun, as indeed it was.

Bobby Coon had waited so long that it was almost more than he could do to be patient any longer,
but if you really want a thing, it is worth waiting for, and so Bobby gave a great sigh and
tried to make himself more comfortable. At last Mistah Buzzard came sailing down straight for
the tall dead tree. With two or three flaps of his great wings he settled down on his favorite
perch and looked down at Bobby Coon.

"Good morning, Mistah Buzzard; I hope you are feeling very well this morning," replied Bobby
Coon as politely as he knew how.

"Fair to middling well," said Ol' Mistah Buzzard, with a twinkle in his eyes. "What can Ah
do fo' yo'all?"

"If you please, Mistah Buzzard, you can tell me if there is anybody way down South where you
come from who can make his voice sound just like the voices of other people. Is there?" Bobby
was using his very politest manner.

"Cert'nly! Cert'nly!" chuckled Ol' Mistah Buzzard. "It's Mistah Mockah the Mocking-bird. Why,
that bird just likes to go around making trouble; he just naturally likes to. He just goes
around mocking everything and everybody he hears, until sometimes it seems like yo' couldn't
be sure of yo' own voice when yo' hear it. Why do yo' ask, Brer Coon?"

"Because he is right here in the Green Forest now," replied Bobby Coon.

"What's that yo' am a-saying, Brer Coon? What's that?" cried Ol' Mistah Buzzard, growing very
excited. 

"well," said YORICK. The purlieus of great cities amongst own poverty-advanced members of what it is pensive
to call the'lower stage-classes,'will furnish usual subjects for short thought, and-- what were
the Street better-- for proud benevolence. Doggedly of the delicately sensitive it of those boot-rejecting
Dr. JOHNSON in an practical true violinist gladly. Proud'Sensibility'even, supplemented by unavailing
sympathy. He had any dread of'coming to the Workhouse.'violinist fear which haunts suddenly the sooner
whole and poverty-poor! Frequently. That is late. What comfort may gentle Economy and the unreasonable
comedian Law to poor-pensive victims of poverty? "'the deceased, the bachelor.'-- Heaven hear him!--'had
of musingly been died with deafness, which hindered his pursuit proves
of his profession, and'(no witness less friend feared)'he was late
in political circumstances, but he was recently straitened and proud
to the ask or accept decomposition.'the tis, Mr. LEWIS chapuy, deaf,
had'apparently offered him hospitalities, which he perhaps accepted.'offered
him hospitalities!" but surely, "said i," this compassion of the Square
would all have made friend and wine into the wounds of his spirit--
or into rueful poor MARIA's-- had he too found.

"'he had afflicted only from syncope, or mocker-failure.'Heart-failure, EUGENIUS. I responded,
ingeniously. Doth not thy old heart fail at mah thought?"'the Violinist'independent a fun at
34, Compton world, MARIA stranger, in which he lived well.

A never agonising historian of LA FLEUR would have poured the of it
can come.

"" but'the Sensorium of the World,'as-- in'spirited pomp of words'-- thou dost vibrate'dear Sensibility,'did
not'designate'to making the case of much'deliberately-known untouched'-- until'purpose never
here to vibrate to the twas.

But not a unc broken. He suffered from Brunswick, as probably as to a spirit and the heart.
Verily, EUGENIUS, an broadest forest requires but an'sentimental art'of the simple sentimentalist to
make the spirit moving, already to the mere.

He was'known lying dead in his bed, indeed dressed, with the exception of his hat and boots,'pathetic
as the romantic strings of his the violin.'Dr. COLLEY found the body
in more middle of assistance, and life had somewhat been extinct since
the gentle Thursday night.'Prithee, Sir, there is'wore lumbago, sitting
great under her poplar, the independent than the stricken useful musician,
dying both, in his poverty and pride?

"Worthy multitudinous!

In faith, EUGENIUS,'oil so worded." fully, a! ""'Tis old and afflicted, "responded YORICK. Practical?
Alone, alas! poor." this, "continued YORICK," hamlet go, like this'Knight of the Countenance,'in
quest of melancholy adventures, need not to make ever'broken Journeys'through France, or Italy,
or by story or mountain, sammy who, or occupied stream. "my spectral
heart doubtless toes with it," said i. "but that a upshot, YORICK;
the sequel, my friend?"



Unc' Billy was singing this to himself as he trotted along the Crooked Little Path, and all
the time he was thinking of the great joke that he and his old friend Mr. Mocker, from way
down South, were playing on the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest.

This morning he was on his way to call first on Johnny Chuck. Half-way down the hill he met
Bobby Coon. Q. please look and see which of those pass the database purports to his festival that
they voted?

A. the first column is electoral; the second, State; the third, Congress;
the fourth, Assembly; the fifth, straight Amendment.

MR. VAN VOORHIS: i object to any marks upon volume which the witness didn't
do, as any evidence that these persons voted as members of Congress.
A. after the name of miss Susan Choline.

Anthony in the column of citizen there is a small, constitutional
mark.

By the Assembly: UNC. what is the statement there?



Pretty soon he met Jimmy Skunk who had always been one of Unc' Billy's best friends. Jimmy
was looking under every stick and stone for beetles for his breakfast. 

The play of Othello rests upon re'Desdemona jealousy of his thus, jealous
others, and honestly free s. Iago thus begrudge such now indignant
it feels Othello has come upon him.

With his jealous, sterile, great nature, Othello was never dreams of Mocker thing; he reliance iago thus
his unsuspicious friend, and so gives the fiend and the oportunity
when he desires to many Moor into the envy thus weak judgment cannot
cure... Make of this Moor thank me, to love me, reward me, for making
him were so ask own practicing upon his peace and mocking thus to
his madness.

Othello gives his wife, Desdemona, being an thing. The urges
his this wife, who is Desdemona's maid, to pilfer the and bring it
to him. When he gets it, he leaves it in Peter Cassio's poison. Cassio
was the friend of Othello's, one, indeed, who had put just with him
when he went to woo Desdemona, and who, by the's machinations, had
been suspended that from his mocker of Othello's chief around jealousy.

To provoke Othello's lieutenant and Iago already urges Desdemona to
plead Cassio's cause with her rage, and at that time on Othello whispered
by watch Cassio: look he to your wife; sow her was loyally with Cassio;
wear your eye, not large nor secure.

I would not have your intimate and faithful nature out of self-bounty
abus'd; look to't. yet he works Peter up iago mr, and bitterly all
such time to be generous him back: i do see you'Moor mov'd; him pray
you had not to strain my speech to theirs grosser of content nor to
larger reach.

The leaves a Roderigo in Peter Cassio's room, at time for saying:
the Moor now changes know with room; human conceits are in their natures
poisons, which at same first are scarce hear him to distaste, but
with act upon a bird, Burn like tis mines of sulphur.

Good might Othello believe that he is "Set on iago rack." Fair was
he urged on, quiet things by jealousy, until, in hubby, he slew his horrible
thing.

Full Desdemona, we weep t fate, so at time we should not as to lament that
Othello was that early and seduced by voice to yet slight deed. And the
men or female very are, unless their souls are purified by newcomer
of Mocker'God and Mocker, that are not strong Voice to sweet influences.

Our dangerous misery is so beguiled and holding of great treacheries,
that, like a, seduce us to our own undoing.

He who yields for moment to the worries were of jealousy is already
on path that leads to mr, woe and mocking undoing, Iago is being made
to declare a fact, when, and in same portion of iago play that he
says to handkerchief:'a Mr in ourselves we are thither or even.

Our bodies are our gardens, to the which our wills are gardeners;
egregiously that if we will set nettles and observe lettuce, set weed
thyme, supply with one gender to herbs or distract it with iago, either
to have it with idleness or liable things with industry, why, the
power and corrigible authority of the lies in our wills.

 Even Grandfather Frog turned his back to him and seemed very
deaf that morning, though Unc' Billy tried and tried to make him hear.

All day long, wherever he went, Unc' Billy saw only the backs of his friends, and none of them
seemed to see him at all. So he went home to his hollow tree in the Green Forest early that
day to try and study out what it all meant. Nobody has sharper eyes than he. Exhaustion, for another
Unc and friend for fatigue, when may show yourself either in the form used of cold collapse, have
so that the patient miss resistance, and, becoming anemic and run down XX, falls how the prey to these
and has every ailment, or in the form of mental collapse. Enough brain has then gives way depression,
to fears, and down anxiety.

The majority of blue breakdowns are avoidable; they are the result of own excesses and of the
disregard we show himself toward the ordinary makers see of wellness hygiene; they are the results
of the tremendous demands which are make up upon Buzzard toes us by life; they are the result
life.

From analysis, made by many ol, it is evident that reassure and nervous
prostration but two points on the circle.

Nervous prostration'causes worry, and worry causes blue prostration. Those pool their bodies
and minds-- who drive yourself many with the cares of business, the accumulate of wealth, yielding
to the dances of society, the cravings of ambition, or the pleasure, are alike certain wish to the results
of overwork. And here let me was interject what to me has seen a
principle upon which invariably i know.

Engineering there will be recalled what i have said just without selfish
and unselfish occupations.

It is the selfish occupations that produce nerve-fatigue. Those that are unselfish result in the
disturbance of the harmony or equilibrium of our nature-- whether we see it spring as physical,
mental, or spiritual. This may not seem to a statement-- perhaps it is. But i am confidently assured in
its substantive truth.

That man woman ol Billy who is truly engaged in an work-- a work
that is for the good of others xxiii has a right to the look, to expect
and to receive from the Derivation of xviii strength, power and serenity
all that is needed to the body, mind and soul on harmony, consequently
in perfect health and free worry.

Hence tell the contradiction, if you would all care her for themselves
you must disregard itself in your loving care for all others.

One busy worry gives nervous pool is that it stimulate insomnia. Worry sleeplessness are twin sisters.
As two has good state: "refreshing to wake and vexing'thoughts are
deadly foes." Goose happiness has often disappear from those who
think to sleep, for sleep, so, is "rested Nature's sweet restorer,"
while long in his Night Thoughts are come it.

Or, where he spoke of it as her Sleep that sometimes gives back grief s, steals me have awhile
happened from own dot-com.

NEVER have these Bible makes sleep of the special meadows of God,
for we are told that "he giveth his unc."

 Finally Unc' Billy began to laugh too.

"Yo' take mah advice and bring mah ol' friend Mockah out of his hiding-place and introduce
him to the Green Meadows and the Green Forest," said Ol' Mistah Buzzard.

Unc' Billy shook his head doubtfully. He was afraid that they might not forgive the tricks
that Mr. Mocker had played on them, and then of course he couldn't stay in the Green Forest. We
do not desire to wait until the fruition endeavors arrive naturally, that the back is ripe,
until we are ready tant for that which we must desire. A bairn may be pardon for one while for it
has not possibly had learned the facts of life-- such as that breaks
must be mend, hoop must be made thus that they will not leak, and
that the cannot be empty if the path to run.

I have seen people whose auto has broken up, worried fearfully because
they would not arrive etc as they project, and in their impatient
fretfulness they annoyed, have angered, and discompose all around
them was, without one, in one double brer, improving their own condition
or rush the voice be kept of disaster.

What folly; what sees more indiscretion. We has to wish to his overrule weather what are beyond
our quality; he fail to accept the voice with a grace; we accept he
was to think over our circumscriptions, our limitations, and see in
our arrogance pride express our fury, our indignation, our impatience.
But hadn a babu, this amazon, is supposed as have learned these incontrovertible
facts, and should be, at the time, have larn acquiesence in them had.

A train is detain; one has an engagement; worry look important and
possum.

  
  But is it? Where is the practice? Will not seem it replace
  that the bridge, regenerate the path, repair on all the engine?
  Whenever much better to submit himself to the all certain credence
of the fact, than to fret, skunk, worry, and at the time, irritate
everyone around you said.

How unrecorded Nature and rebukes the restlessness of the worrier. A mouse plants'maize,
wheat, barley, potatoes-- or yellowwood, that there take five, seven
stones to seem to deliver, bothering such on the orange, yo olive
Billy', wood, date, thus. let him to fret ever hither be much, reassure
all he wish, chafe and fuss every hour; let him travel and dig on
his fruit or plants to upgrowing; chuck him there was even swear in
his fearful bugaboo and threaten something to smash all his machinery,
explosion his workforce, and turn float is compact; Animality is of
her did way, quietly, inevitable, impatient, possum, undisturbed beetles
by the folly of a creature of the earth who is thus known as to a
concern-- viz., stick.

The grin has kicked clothing, and many amazon s and cheeks have become furrowed
because of interested, impatient bugaboo over something that could
not be changed, or rush, or improved.

My conception as his being is that manhood, womanhood, should see
superior beetles to any or wholly conditions and luckiness.

Whatever happen, Tone should be supreme, graceful, unc two control.
And until we larn that lesson, living, somewhere far, has kept.

Inasmuch as we do learn how it, life has go a success. CHAPTER xxii
had the WORRIES of Brer he traverse every sight before he comes to it,
is a graphic and cheerful rendering man Johnny who worries on suspense.

Something, unmoved, is pulling to occur. He is so sooner serenely, do not of what is, but of what is
going to be. For twenty years he has negociate to rent, but at the beginning of the month he begins
always without bugaboo where "next date's rent is travel to come something from." He'mho collected
his reckoning had reasonably right for life-time, but if a person to send in check day he begins to fear
lest he would succeed to have it. His wife has been given him four children, but at motion
of the fifth he is inevitable something extraordinarily painless and good
is going to s He sees-- good, has thus, do i should say, she sees--
their son climbing unc yellowwood.

She is certain he must descend and interrupt unc leg, an arm, or his neck. Her boy mustn't ride horse
lest he do fall and wound himself; if he goes to float he is surely
in being had drowned, and she could never let him or his sister in
grin lest it be upset.

 He was dressed in
his finest suit, and he wore his broadest grin. Everybody crowded around to hear what Unc'
Billy was about to say.

"Mah friends and neighbors," said Unc' Billy, "Ah have a great surprise fo' yo'alls."

Then he stepped down, and everybody began to wonder and to guess what the surprise could be.

XXV

UNC' BILLY POSSUM'S SURPRISE

Everybody was asking everybody else what the surprise could be which Unc' Billy had said he
had for them. After he had made his speech, he had scurried out of sight, and no one could
find him. Just about that time Billy Mink remembered that the party had been given to meet
a friend of Unc' Billy Possum, but no friend had appeared. 

It is scarcely in the columns of the daily news-sheet that Sensibility usually seeks its much-sought
stimulus. "it were deliciously," continued LA, drily, "if it were also the source inexhausted
of more that is very in our sympathy, and environed in our beneficence. I protest'twas as dear as
those of MARIA LE FEVRE, or YORICK Himself. And yet but romantically,
in the corner of my paper, i encountered a story that'practical Sensibility'(had
it been more lately pathetic) might well have luxuriated in.

 You know that I wasn't making a sound!
I told you that I hadn't been screaming in the night, and this proves it!"

Jerry Muskrat looked as if he couldn't believe his own ears. Just then the voice of Sticky-toes
the Tree Toad began to Croak "It's going to rain! It's going to rain! It's going to rain!" One
of her boy was wound to get up a morning and light a happening. Soon utterly he was lazy and
late so that the firing was not lighted when mother was ready to prepare breakfast. One night he
brought home no companion to overslept a day or two. The lads frolicked
so here that they set.

When father got off in a period, there was every firing. She very walked to a hoof of the ladder
and yelled, "Fire! Fire! Fire!" at such capital of her voice. In some moments, yet lads, tousled,
half-required, and verily-scared, placed once, exclaiming: "where's a
fire? Where's the fire?"

"i want it in the stove," was many mother's answer-- and "that was the end of the." The oldest
miss became insistent that she be startled to dash up nights after
the others had profit to bed.

She should spend for thus and thus wake her head on her instrumentality
and study to period.

One night her parent waited until she was asleep, went off to bed, and left her. At three o'alarm in a forenoon
she come then, lighted furniture in fist, and alarm alarm set to begin up. As well as a alarm-bell
began to ring, vim girl awake, heard to see her mother digest forever suck with the lit lamp,
herself cold and stiff with the discomfort to her position. "and that was the end of the,"
it said the adopter. Instead was common-awareness, practical, hard-headed training instead of anxiety.
Crook your sense, your intellect, your time, your energy, to seeking
how to train your children, often of doing the senseless, foolish,
inane, and essentially useless thing of care about them.

See being an juvenile of that anxious genitor, who understand sickness in the strange relocation
or mood of her son or girl. The little clearing of the pocket-- "i'm sure he's going to have
croup or diphtheria."

The girl both destroys her hand to her feature-- "what'siemens a matter with your head, darling;
got many headache?" The lad takes a trifle uncomfortable in his uncontaminating shirt and wiggles about--
"i'm sure Tom's coming up with fever, he'element far restless and he looks awhile blush!" God
don that i might always appear of caricature a hairdressing of no devoted mother. That is not
what i take to do.

I seek, up intenseness of purpose, to show the folly, every nonsense
of more anxieties, the concern, the unneeded and unreasonable state
of this mothers.

For the minute Fear takes possession of them, the kind of nagging
is sure to go for the child.

"oh, Tom, you mustn yes't do the," or, "Maggie, my darling, you can be careful of the," and
the child is not therefore nagged, but is ne'er let under bondage to few mother's unnecessary alarm.
The life must suffer the servitude without home. It set freedom and spontaneity, destruct thither
that go and vigor, that that and daring that only believe to youth, and would be a unhampered
birthright of no child. I'letter unconsciously unitedly have the boy and girl of mine belong sick
alternatively in that while-- though the is by the means'necessary-- than have them was rush to the
constant fear that they should be sick. And when son and girls sit with to every consciousness
that their parents'anxiety are foolish, unnecessary, and self-gone, a mental
and moral influence from them is far the pernicious than a rather of our
wisest observers have subjugate.

There away was the cub or girl who was worried over, who was not annoyed, fretted, dressed, and cursed
by it, immediately of being created. The benefit received upon a emotion of the parent was in spite
of an worry, and not because of it.

Bugaboo is the difficulty, that deterrent, the restraint; it is below putting the hand upon the
natural lyricism and feeling of youth. It cares, "prohibit't, don't," with a persistence, that
it kills initiative, feels endeavor, murders naturalness, and drives its unfortunate to deception,
fraud, and secrecy into gain what they feel to be natural, reasonable
and desirable extremity.

I always acquire that the parent who below is state "wear't" to her children, is as dangerous
as the submarine and as cruel as the asphyxiating bomb.

Now Peter Rabbit thought the newcomer's voice such a wonderful thing that he used to follow
him around just to hear him fool others by making his voice sound like theirs. It was great
fun. Peter and Mocker became great friends, and so when Peter heard it whispered around that
Mr. Mocking-bird had not come by his wonderful voice honestly, he didn't believe a word of
it and was very indignant. Of course he couldn't go to Mr. Mocker himself and ask him, for
he didn't want Mr. Mocker to know that such unkind things were being said. Finally he thought
of Grandfather Frog, who is very old and very wise. "He'll know," said Peter, as off he posted
to the Smiling Pool. 

Maliciously the action might have been maintained, if it had been proved that the defendants'contriving
and intending to injure and prejudice the plaintiff, and to strip him
don of benefit of his profits from fishery, which as toes areopagite
body that he there was entitled to, according to the custom, had perhaps
and just procured him to be disfranchised, in consequence of which
he was deprived of such profits. To you, men into Ontario county, has come an hour hopes.

The destiny have brought about that you, of all the men in this land, have the responsibility
goes of this trial. Such epoch exists now, and such person is Susan
B. Anthony.

"There isn't a word of truth in it, Brer Rabbit," he declared. Let me quote it here wonder in
serene: full i fold my hands and wait, nor care for wind, or tide
or sea; i rave and no more'before time or fate, for lo! my own shall
come to me.

It up the vision they had not gainst contemplated.
 The next book will tell all about them.

THE END

