In this connection it should not be forgotten that when France, of her own accord, resolved,
for considerations of the most farsighted sagacity, to cede Louisiana to the United States,
and that accession was accepted by the United States, the latter expressly engaged that "the
inhabitants of the ceded territory shall be incorporated in the Union of the United States
and admitted as soon as possible, according to the principles of the Federal Constitution,
to the enjoyment of all the rights, advantages, and immunities of citizens of the United States;
and in the meantime they shall be maintained and protected in the free enjoyment of their liberty,
property, and the religion which they profess;" that is to say, while it remains in a Territorial
condition its inhabitants are maintained and protected in the free enjoyment of their liberty
and property, with a right then to pass into the condition of States on a footing of perfect
equality with the original States.

The enactment which established the restrictive geographical line was acquiesced in rather
than approved by the States of the Union. It stood on the statute book, however, for a number
of years; and the people of the respective States acquiesced in the reenactment of the principle
as applied to the State of Texas, and it was proposed to acquiesce in its further application
to the territory acquired by the United States from Mexico. But this proposition was successfully
resisted by the representatives from the Northern States, who, regardless of the statute line,
insisted upon applying restriction to the new territory generally, whether lying north or south
of it, thereby repealing it as a legislative compromise, and, on the part of the North, persistently
violating the compact, if compact there was.

Thereupon this enactment ceased to have binding virtue in any sense, whether as respects the
North or the South, and so in effect it was treated on the occasion of the admission of the
State of California and the organization of the Territories of New Mexico, Utah, and Washington.

Such was the state of this question when the time arrived for the organization of the Territories
of Kansas and Nebraska. In the progress of constitutional inquiry and reflection it had now
at length come to be seen clearly that Congress does not possess constitutional power to impose
restrictions of this character upon any present or future State of the Union. In a long series
of decisions, on the fullest argument and after the most deliberate consideration, the Supreme
Court of the United States had finally determined this point in every form under which the
question could arise, whether as affecting public or private rights--in questions of the public
domain, of religion, of navigation, and of servitude.

The several States of the Union are by force of the Constitution coequal in domestic legislative
power. Congress can not change a law of domestic relation in the State of Maine; no more can
it in the State of Missouri. Any statute which proposes to do this is a mere nullity; it takes
away no right, it confers none. If it remains on the statute book unrepealed, it remains there
only as a monument of error and a beacon of warning to the legislator and the statesman. To
repeal it will be only to remove imperfection from the statutes, without affecting, either
in the sense of permission, or of prohibition, the action of the States or of their citizens.

Still, when the nominal restriction of this nature, already a dead letter in law, was in terms
repealed by the last Congress, in a clause of the act organizing the Territories of Kansas
and Nebraska, that repeal was made the occasion of a widespread and dangerous agitation. It
was alleged that the original enactment being a compact of perpetual moral obligation, its
repeal constituted an odious breach of faith. An act of Congress, while it remains unrepealed,
more especially if it be constitutionally valid in the judgment of those public functionaries
whose duty it is to pronounce on that point, is undoubtedly binding on the conscience of each
good citizen of the Republic. But in what sense can it be asserted that the enactment in question
was invested with perpetuity and entitled to the respect of a solemn Compact? Between whom
was the compact? No distinct contending powers of the Government, no separate sections of the
Union treating as such, entered into treaty stipulations on the subject. It was a mere clause
of an act of Congress, and, like any other controverted matter of legislation, received its
final shape and was passed by compromise of the conflicting opinions or sentiments of the members
of Congress. But if it had moral authority over men's consciences, to whom did this authority
attach? Not to those of the North, who had repeatedly refused to confirm it by extension and
who had zealously striven to establish other and incompatible regulations upon the subject.
And if, as it thus appears, the supposed compact had no obligatory force as to the North, of
course it could not have had any as to the South, for all such compacts must be mutual and
of reciprocal obligation.

It has not unfrequently happened that lawgivers, with undue estimation of the value of the
law they give or in the view of imparting to it peculiar strength, make it perpetual in terms;
but they can not thus bind the conscience, the judgment, and the will of those who may succeed
them, invested with similar responsibilities and clothed with equal authority. More careful
investigation may prove the law to be unsound in principle. Experience may show it to be imperfect
in detail and impracticable in execution. And then both reason and right combine not merely
to justify but to require its repeal.

The Constitution, supreme, as it is, over all the departments of the Government--legislative,
executive, and judicial--is open to amendment by its very terms; and Congress or the States
may, in their discretion, propose amendment to it, solemn compact though it in truth is between
the sovereign States of the Union. In the present instance a political enactment which had
ceased to have legal power or authority of any kind was repealed. The position assumed that
Congress had no moral right to enact such repeal was strange enough, and singularly so in view
of the fact that the argument came from those who openly refused obedience to existing laws
of the land, having the same popular designation and quality as compromise acts; nay, more,
who unequivocally disregarded and condemned the most positive and obligatory injunctions of
the Constitution itself, and sought by every means within their reach to deprive a portion
of their fellow-citizens of the equal enjoyment of those rights and privileges guaranteed alike
to all by the fundamental compact of our Union.

This argument against the repeal of the statute line in question was accompanied by another
of congenial character and equally with the former destitute of foundation in reason and truth.
It was imputed that the measure originated in the conception of extending the limits of slave
labor beyond those previously assigned to it, and that such was its natural as well as intended
effect; and these baseless assumptions were made, in the Northern States, the ground of unceasing
assault upon constitutional right.

The repeal in terms of a statute, which was already obsolete and also null for unconstitutionality,
could have no influence to obstruct or to promote the propagation of conflicting views of political
or social institution. When the act organizing the Territories of Kansas and Nebraska was passed,
the inherent effect upon that portion of the public domain thus opened to legal settlement
was to admit settlers from all the States of the Union alike, each with his convictions of
public policy and private interest, there to found, in their discretion, subject to such limitations
as the Constitution and acts of Congress might prescribe, new States, hereafter to be admitted
into the Union. It was a free field, open alike to all, whether the statute line of assumed
restriction were repealed or not. That repeal did not open to free competition of the diverse
opinions and domestic institutions a field which without such repeal would have been closed
against them; it found that field of competition already opened, in fact and in law. All the
repeal did was to relieve the statute book of an objectionable enactment, unconstitutional
in effect and injurious in terms to a large portion of the States.

Is it the fact that in all the unsettled regions of the United States, if emigration be left
free to act in this respect for itself, without legal prohibitions on either side, slave labor
will spontaneously go everywhere in preference to free labor? Is it the fact that the peculiar
domestic institutions of the Southern States possess relatively so much of vigor that wheresoever
an avenue is freely opened to all the world they will penetrate to the exclusion of those of
the Northern States? Is it the fact that the former enjoy, compared with the latter, such irresistibly
superior vitality, independent of climate, soil, and all other accidental circumstances, as
to be able to produce the supposed result in spite of the assumed moral and natural obstacles
to its accomplishment and of the more numerous population of the Northern States? The argument
of those who advocate the enactment of new laws of restriction and condemn the repeal of old
ones in effect avers that their particular views of government have no self-extending or self-sustaining
power of their own, and will go nowhere unless forced by act of Congress. And if Congress do
but pause for a moment in the policy of stern coercion; if it venture to try the experiment
of leaving men to judge for themselves what institutions will best suit them; if it be not
strained up to perpetual legislative exertion on this point--if Congress proceed thus to act
in the very spirit of liberty, it is at once charged with aiming to extend slave labor into
all the new Territories of the United States.

Of course these imputations on the intentions of Congress in this respect, conceived, as they
were, in prejudice and disseminated in passion, are utterly destitute of any justification
in the nature of things and contrary to all the fundamental doctrines and principles of civil
liberty and self-government.

While, therefore, in general, the people of the Northern States have never at any time arrogated
for the Federal Government the power to interfere directly with the domestic condition of persons
in the Southern States, but, on the contrary, have disavowed all such intentions and have shrunk
from conspicuous affiliation with those few who pursue their fanatical objects avowedly through
the contemplated means of revolutionary change of the Government and with acceptance of the
necessary consequences--a civil and servile war--yet many citizens have suffered themselves
to be drawn into one evanescent political issue of agitation after another, appertaining to
the same set of opinions, and which subsided as rapidly as they arose when it came to be seen,
as it uniformly did, that they were incompatible with the compacts of the Constitution and
the existence of the Union. Thus when the acts of some of the States to nullify the existing
extradition law imposed upon Congress the duty of passing a new one, the country was invited
by agitators to enter into party organization for its repeal; but that agitation speedily ceased
by reason of the impracticability of its object. So when the statute restriction upon the institutions
of new States by a geographical line had been repealed, the country was urged to demand its
restoration, and that project also died almost with its birth. Then followed the cry of alarm
from the North against imputed Southern encroachments, which cry sprang in reality from the
spirit of revolutionary attack on the domestic institutions of the South, and, after a troubled
existence of a few months, has been rebuked by the voice of a patriotic people.

Of this last agitation, one lamentable feature was that it was carried on at the immediate
expense of the peace and happiness of the people of the Territory of Kansas. That was made
the battlefield, not so much of opposing factions or interests within itself as of the conflicting
passions of the whole people of the United States. Revolutionary disorder in Kansas had its
origin in projects of intervention deliberately arranged by certain members of that Congress
which enacted the law for the organization of the Territory; and when propagandist colonization
of Kansas had thus been undertaken in one section of the Union for the systematic promotion
of its peculiar views of policy there ensued as a matter of course a counteraction with opposite
views in other sections of the Union.

In consequence of these and other incidents, many acts of disorder, it is undeniable, have
been perpetrated in Kansas, to the occasional interruption rather than the permanent suspension
of regular government. Aggressive and most reprehensible incursions into the Territory were
undertaken both in the North and the South, and entered it on its northern border by the way
of Iowa, as well as on the eastern by way of Missouri; and there has existed within it a state
of insurrection against the constituted authorities, not without countenance from inconsiderate
persons in each of the great sections of the Union. But the difficulties in that Territory
have been extravagantly exaggerated for purposes of political agitation elsewhere. The number
and gravity of the acts of violence have been magnified partly by statements entirely untrue
and partly by reiterated accounts of the same rumors or facts. Thus the Territory has been
seemingly filled with extreme violence, when the whole amount of such acts has not been greater
than what occasionally passes before us in single cities to the regret of all good citizens,
but without being regarded as of general or permanent political consequence.

Imputed irregularities in the elections had in Kansas, like occasional irregularities of the
same description in the States, were beyond the sphere of action of the Executive. But incidents
of actual violence or of organized obstruction of law, pertinaciously renewed from time to
time, have been met as they occurred by such means as were available and as the circumstances
required, and nothing of this character now remains to affect the general peace of the Union.
The attempt of a part of the inhabitants of the Territory to erect a revolutionary government,
though sedulously encouraged and supplied with pecuniary aid from active agents of disorder
in some of the States, has completely failed. Bodies of armed men, foreign to the Territory,
have been prevented from entering or compelled to leave it; predatory bands, engaged in acts
of rapine under cover of the existing political disturbances, have been arrested or dispersed,
and every well-disposed person is now enabled once more to devote himself in peace to the pursuits
of prosperous industry, for the prosecution of which he undertook to participate in the settlement
of the Territory.

It affords me unmingled satisfaction thus to announce the peaceful condition of things in Kansas,
especially considering the means to which it was necessary to have recourse for the attainment
of the end, namely, the employment of a part of the military force of the United States. The
withdrawal of that force from its proper duty of defending the country against foreign foes
or the savages of the frontier to employ it for the suppression of domestic insurrection is,
when the exigency occurs, a matter of the most earnest solicitude. On this occasion of imperative
necessity it has been done with the best results, and my satisfaction in the attainment of
such results by such means is greatly enhanced by the consideration that, through the wisdom
and energy of the present executive of Kansas and the prudence, firmness, and vigilance of
the military officers on duty there tranquillity has been restored without one drop of blood
having been shed in its accomplishment by the forces of the United States.

The restoration of comparative tranquillity in that Territory furnishes the means of observing
calmly and appreciating at their just value the events which have occurred there and the discussions
of which the government of the Territory has been the subject. We perceive that controversy
concerning its future domestic institutions was inevitable; that no human prudence, no form
of legislation, no wisdom on the part of Congress, could have prevented it.

It is idle to suppose that the particular provisions of their organic law were the cause of
agitation. Those provisions were but the occasion, or the pretext, of an agitation which was
inherent in the nature of things. Congress legislated upon the subject in such terms as were
most consonant with the principle of popular sovereignty which underlies our Government. It
could not have legislated otherwise without doing violence to another great principle of our
institutions--the imprescriptible right of equality of the several States.

We perceive also that sectional interests and party passions have been the great impediment
to the salutary operation of the organic principles adopted and the chief cause of the successive
disturbances in Kansas. The assumption that because in the organization of the Territories
of Nebraska and Kansas Congress abstained from imposing restraints upon them to which certain
other Territories had been subject, therefore disorders occurred in the latter Territory, is
emphatically contradicted by the fact that none have occurred in the former. Those disorders
were not the consequence, in Kansas, of the freedom of self-government conceded to that Territory
by Congress, but of unjust interference on the part of persons not inhabitants of the Territory.
Such interference, wherever it has exhibited itself by acts of insurrectionary character or
of obstruction to process of law, has been repelled or suppressed by all the means which the
Constitution and the laws place in the hands of the Executive.

In those parts of the United States where, by reason of the inflamed state of the public mind,
false rumors and misrepresentations have the greatest currency it has been assumed that it
was the duty of the Executive not only to suppress insurrectionary movements in Kansas, but
also to see to the regularity of local elections. It needs little argument to show that the
President has no such power. All government in the United States rests substantially upon popular
election. The freedom of elections is liable to be impaired by the intrusion of unlawful votes
or the exclusion of lawful ones, by improper influences, by violence, or by fraud. But the
people of the United States are themselves the all sufficient guardians of their own rights,
and to suppose that they will not remedy in due season any such incidents of civil freedom
is to suppose them to have ceased to be capable of self-government. The President of the United
States has not power to interpose in elections, to see to their freedom, to canvass their votes,
or to pass upon their legality in the Territories any more than in the States. If he had such
power the Government might be republican in form, but it would be a monarchy in fact; and if
he had undertaken to exercise it in the case of Kansas he would have been justly subject to
the charge of usurpation and of violation of the dearest rights of the people of the United States.

Unwise laws, equally with irregularities at elections, are in periods of great excitement the
occasional incidents of even the freest and best political institutions; but all experience
demonstrates that in a country like ours, where the right of self-constitution exists in the
completest form, the attempt to remedy unwise legislation by resort to revolution is totally
out of place, inasmuch as existing legal institutions afford more prompt and efficacious means
for the redress of wrong.

I confidently trust that now, when the peaceful condition of Kansas affords opportunity for
calm reflection and wise legislation, either the legislative assembly of the Territory or Congress
will see that no act shall remain on its statute book violative of the provisions of the Constitution
or subversive of the great objects for which that was ordained and established, and will take
all other necessary steps to assure to its inhabitants the enjoyment, without obstruction or
abridgment, of all the constitutional rights, privileges, and immunities of citizens of the
United States, as contemplated by the organic law of the Territory.

Full information in relation to recent events in this Territory will be found in the documents
communicated herewith from the Departments of State and War.

I refer you to the report of the Secretary of the Treasury for particular information concerning
the financial condition of the Government and the various branches of the public service connected
with the Treasury Department.

During the last fiscal year the receipts from customs were for the first time more than $64,000,000,
and from all sources $73,918,141, which, with the balance on hand up to the 1st of July, 1855,
made the total resources of the year amount to $92,850,117. The expenditures, including $3,000,000
in execution of the treaty with Mexico and excluding sums paid on account of the public debt,
amounted to $60,172,401, and including the latter to $72,948,792, the payment on this account
having amounted to $12,776,390.

On the 4th of March, 1853, the amount of the public debt was $69,129,937. There was a subsequent
increase of $2,750,000 for the debt of Texas, making a total of $71,879,937. Of this the sum
of $45,525,319, including premium, has been discharged, reducing the debt to $30,963,909, all
which might be paid within a year without embarrassing the public service, but being not yet
due and only redeemable at the option of the holder, can not be pressed to payment by the Government.

On examining the expenditures of the last five years it will be seen that the average, deducting
payments on account of the public debt and $10,000,000 paid by treaty to Mexico, has been but
about $48,000,000. It is believed that under an economical administration of the Government
the average expenditure for the ensuing five years will not exceed that sum, unless extraordinary
occasion for its increase should occur. The acts granting bounty lands will soon have been
executed, while the extension of our frontier settlements will cause a continued demand for
lands and augmented receipts, probably, from that source. These considerations will justify
a reduction of the revenue from customs so as not to exceed forty-eight or fifty million dollars.
I think the exigency for such reduction is imperative, and again urge it upon the consideration
of Congress.

The amount of reduction, as well as the manner of effecting it, are questions of great and
general interest, it being essential to industrial enterprise and the public prosperity, as
well as the dictate of obvious justice, that the burden of taxation be made to rest as equally
as possible upon all classes and all sections and interests of the country.

I have heretofore recommended to your consideration the revision of the revenue laws, prepared
under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury, and also legislation upon some special
questions affecting the business of that Department, more especially the enactment of a law
to punish the abstraction of official books or papers from the files of the Government and
requiring all such books and papers and all other public property to be turned over by the
outgoing officer to his successor; of a law requiring disbursing officers to deposit all public
money in the vaults of the Treasury or in other legal depositories, where the same are conveniently
accessible, and a law to extend existing penal provisions to all persons who may become possessed
of public money by deposit or otherwise and who shall refuse or neglect on due demand to pay
the same into the Treasury. I invite your attention anew to each of these objects.

The Army during the past year has been so constantly employed against hostile Indians in various
quarters that it can scarcely be said, with propriety of language, to have been a peace establishment.
Its duties have been satisfactorily performed, and we have reason to expect as a result of
the year's operations greater security to the frontier inhabitants than has been hitherto enjoyed.
Extensive combinations among the hostile Indians of the Territories of Washington and Oregon
at one time threatened the devastation of the newly formed settlements of that remote portion
of the country. From recent information we are permitted to hope that the energetic and successful
operations conducted there will prevent such combinations in future and secure to those Territories
an opportunity to make steady progress in the development of their agricultural and mineral
resources.

Legislation has been recommended by me on previous occasions to cure defects in the existing
organization and to increase the efficiency of the Army, and further observation has but served
to confirm me in the views then expressed and to enforce on my mind the conviction that such
measures are not only proper, but necessary.

I have, in addition, to invite the attention of Congress to a change of policy in the distribution
of troops and to the necessity of providing a more rapid increase of the military armament.
For details of these and other subjects relating to the Army I refer to the report of the Secretary
of War.

The condition of the Navy is not merely satisfactory, but exhibits the most gratifying evidences
of increased vigor. As it is comparatively small, it is more important that it should be as
complete as possible in all the elements of strength; that it should be efficient in the character
of its officers, in the zeal and discipline of its men, in the reliability of its ordnance,
and in the capacity of its ships. In all these various qualities the Navy has made great progress
within the last few years. The execution of the law of Congress of February 28, 1855, "to promote
the efficiency of the Navy," has been attended by the most advantageous results. The law for
promoting discipline among the men is found convenient and salutary. The system of granting
an honorable discharge to faithful seamen on the expiration of the period of their enlistment
and permitting them to reenlist after a leave of absence of a few months without cessation
of pay is highly beneficial in its influence. The apprentice system recently adopted is evidently
destined to incorporate into the service a large number of our countrymen, hitherto so difficult
to procure. Several hundred American boys are now on a three years' cruise in our national
vessels and will return well-trained seamen. In the Ordnance Department there is a decided
and gratifying indication of progress, creditable to it and to the country. The suggestions
of the Secretary of the Navy in regard to further improvement in that branch of the service
I commend to your favorable action. The new frigates ordered by Congress are now afloat and
two of them in active service. They are superior models of naval architecture, and with their
formidable battery add largely to public strength and security. I concur in the views expressed
by the Secretary of the Department in favor of a still further increase of our naval force.

The report of the Secretary of the Interior presents facts and views in relation to internal
affairs over which the supervision of his Department extends of much interest and importance.

The aggregate sales of the public lands during the last fiscal year amount to 9,227,878 acres,
for which has been received the sum of $8,821,414. During the same period there have been located
with military scrip and land warrants and for other purposes 30,100,230 acres, thus making
a total aggregate of 39,328,108 acres. On the 30th of September last surveys had been made
of 16,873,699 acres, a large proportion of which is ready for market.

The suggestions in this report in regard to the complication and progressive expansion of the
business of the different bureaus of the Department, to the pension system, to the colonization
of Indian tribes, and the recommendations in relation to various improvements in the District
of Columbia are especially commended to your consideration.

The report of the Postmaster-General presents fully the condition of that Department of the
Government. Its expenditures for the last fiscal year were $10,407,868 and its gross receipts
$7,620,801, making an excess of expenditure over receipts of $2,787,046. The deficiency of
this Department is thus $744,000 greater than for the year ending June 30, 1853. Of this deficiency
$330,000 is to be attributed to the additional compensation allowed to postmasters by the act
of Congress of June 22, 1854. The mail facilities in every part of the country have been very
much increased in that period, and the large addition of railroad service, amounting to 7,908
miles, has added largely to the cost of transportation.

The inconsiderable augmentation of the income of the Post-Office Department under the reduced
rates of postage and its increasing expenditures must for the present make it dependent to
some extent upon the Treasury for support. The recommendations of the Postmaster-General in
relation to the abolition of the franking privilege and his views on the establishment of mail
steamship lines deserve the consideration of Congress. I also call the special attention of
Congress to the statement of the Postmaster-General respecting the sums now paid for the transportation
of mails to the Panama Railroad Company, and commend to their early and favorable consideration
the suggestions of that officer in relation to new contracts for mail transportation upon that
route, and also upon the Tehuantepec and Nicaragua routes.

The United States continue in the enjoyment of amicable relations with all foreign powers.

When my last annual message was transmitted to Congress two subjects of controversy, one relating
to the enlistment of soldiers in this country for foreign service and the other to Central
America, threatened to disturb the good understanding between the United States and Great Britain.
Of the progress and termination of the former question you were informed at the time, and the
other is now in the way of satisfactory adjustment. The pretensions subsequently asserted by
Great Britain to dominion or control over territories in or near two of the routes, those of
Nicaragua and Honduras, were deemed by the United States not merely incompatible with the main
object of the treaty, but opposed even to its express stipulations. Occasion of controversy
on this point has been removed by an additional treaty, which our minister at London has concluded,
and which will be immediately submitted to the Senate for its consideration. Should the proposed
supplemental arrangement be concurred in by all the parties to be affected by it, the objects
contemplated by the original convention will have been fully attained.

The treaty between the United States and Great Britain of the 5th of June, 1854, which went
into effective operation in 1855, put an end to causes of irritation between the two countries,
by securing to the United States the right of fishery on the coast of the British North American
Provinces, with advantages equal to those enjoyed by British subjects. Besides the signal benefits
of this treaty to a large class of our citizens engaged in a pursuit connected to no inconsiderable
degree with our national prosperity and strength, it has had a favorable effect upon other
interests in the provision it made for reciprocal freedom of trade between the United States
and the British Provinces in America. The exports of domestic articles to those Provinces during
the last year amounted to more than $22,000,000, exceeding those of the preceding year by nearly
$7,000,000; and the imports therefrom during the same period amounted to more than twenty-one
million, an increase of six million upon those of the previous year.

The improved condition of this branch of our commerce is mainly attributable to the above-mentioned
treaty.

Provision was made in the first article of that treaty for a commission to designate the mouths
of rivers to which the common right of fishery on the coast of the United States and the British
Provinces was not to extend. This commission has been employed a part of two seasons, but without
much progress in accomplishing the object for which it was instituted, in consequence of a
serious difference of opinion between the commissioners, not only as to the precise point where
the rivers terminate, but in many instances as to what constitutes a river. These difficulties,
however, may be overcome by resort to the umpirage provided for by the treaty.

The efforts perseveringly prosecuted since the commencement of my Administration to relieve
our trade to the Baltic from the exaction of Sound dues by Denmark have not yet been attended
with success. Other governments have also sought to obtain a like relief to their commerce,
and Denmark was thus induced to propose an arrangement to all the European powers interested
in the subject, and the manner in which her proposition was received warranting her to believe
that a satisfactory arrangement with them could soon be concluded, she made a strong appeal
to this Government for temporary suspension of definite action on its part, in consideration
of the embarrassment which might result to her European negotiations by an immediate adjustment
of the question with the United States. This request has been acceded to upon the condition
that the sums collected after the 16th of June last and until the 16th of June next from vessels
and cargoes belonging to our merchants are to be considered as paid under protest and subject
to future adjustment. There is reason to believe that an arrangement between Denmark and the
maritime powers of Europe on the subject will be soon concluded, and that the pending negotiation
with the United States may then be resumed and terminated in a satisfactory manner.

With Spain no new difficulties have arisen, nor has much progress been made in the adjustment
of pending ones.

Negotiations entered into for the purpose of relieving our commercial intercourse with the
island of Cuba of some of its burdens and providing for the more speedy settlement of local
disputes growing out of that intercourse have not yet been attended with any results. Soon
after the commencement of the late war in Europe this Government submitted to the consideration
of all maritime nations two principles for the security of neutral commerce--one that the neutral
flag should cover enemies' goods, except articles contraband of war, and the other that neutral
property on board merchant vessels of belligerents should be exempt from condemnation, with
the exception of contraband articles. These were not presented as new rules of international
law, having been generally claimed by neutrals, though not always admitted by belligerents.
One of the parties to the war (Russia), as well as several neutral powers, promptly acceded
to these propositions, and the two other principal belligerents (Great Britain and France)
having consented to observe them for the present occasion, a favorable opportunity seemed to
be presented for obtaining a general recognition of them, both in Europe and America. But Great
Britain and France, in common with most of the States of Europe, while forbearing to reject,
did not affirmatively act upon the overtures of the United States.

While the question was in this position the representatives of Russia, France, Great Britain,
Austria, Prussia, Sardinia, and Turkey, assembled at Paris, took into consideration the subject
of maritime rights, and put forth a declaration containing the two principles which this Government
had submitted nearly two years before to the consideration of maritime powers, and adding thereto
the following propositions: "Privateering is and remains abolished," and "Blockades in order
to be binding must be effective; that is to say, maintained by a force sufficient really to
prevent access to the coast of the enemy;" and to the declaration thus composed of four points,
two of which had already been proposed by the United States, this Government has been invited
to accede by all the powers represented at Paris except Great Britain and Turkey. To the last
of the two additional propositions--that in relation to blockades--there can certainly be no
objection. It is merely the definition of what shall constitute the effectual investment of
a blockaded place, a definition for which this Government has always contended, claiming indemnity
for losses where a practical violation of the rule thus defined has been injurious to our commerce.
As to the remaining article of the declaration of the conference of Paris, that "privateering
is and remains abolished," I certainly can not ascribe to the powers represented in the conference
of Paris any but liberal and philanthropic views in the attempt to change the unquestionable
rule of maritime law in regard to privateering. Their proposition was doubtless intended to
imply approval of the principle that private property upon the ocean, although it might belong
to the citizens of a belligerent state, should be exempted from capture; and had that proposition
been so framed as to give full effect to the principle, it would have received my ready assent
on behalf of the United States. But the measure proposed is inadequate to that purpose. It
is true that if adopted private property upon the ocean would be withdrawn from one mode of
plunder, but left exposed meanwhile to another mode, which could be used with increased effectiveness.
The aggressive capacity of great naval powers would be thereby augmented, while the defensive
ability of others would be reduced. Though the surrender of the means of prosecuting hostilities
by employing privateers, as proposed by the conference of Paris, is mutual in terms, yet in
practical effect it would be the relinquishment of a right of little value to one class of
states, but of essential importance to another and a far larger class. It ought not to have
been anticipated that a measure so inadequate to the accomplishment of the proposed object
and so unequal in its operation would receive the assent of all maritime powers. Private property
would be still left to the depredations of the public armed cruisers.

I have expressed a readiness on the part of this Government to accede to all the principles
contained in the declaration of the conference of Paris provided that the one relating to the
abandonment of privateering can be so amended as to effect the object for which, as is presumed,
it was intended--the immunity of private property on the ocean from hostile capture. To effect
this object, it is proposed to add to the declaration that "privateering is and remains abolished"
the following amendment:

And that the private property of subjects and citizens of a belligerent on the high seas shall
be exempt from seizure by the public armed vessels of the other belligerent, except it be contraband.

This amendment has been presented not only to the powers which have asked our assent to the
declaration to abolish privateering, but to all other maritime states. Thus far it has not
been rejected by any, and is favorably entertained by all which have made any communication
in reply.

Several of the governments regarding with favor the proposition of the United States have delayed
definitive action upon it only for the purpose of consulting with others, parties to the conference
of Paris. I have the satisfaction of stating, however, that the Emperor of Russia has entirely
and explicitly approved of that modification and will cooperate in endeavoring to obtain the
assent of other powers, and that assurances of a similar purport have been received in relation
to the disposition of the Emperor of the French. The present aspect of this important subject
allows us to cherish the hope that a principle so humane in its character, so just and equal
in its operation, so essential to the prosperity of commercial nations, and so consonant to
the sentiments of this enlightened period of the world will command the approbation of all
maritime powers, and thus be incorporated into the code of international law.

My views on the subject are more fully set forth in the reply of the Secretary of State, a
copy of which is herewith transmitted, to the communications on the subject made to this Government,
especially to the communication of France.

The Government of the United States has at all times regarded with friendly interest the other
States of America, formerly, like this country, European colonies, and now independent members
of the great family of nations. But the unsettled condition of some of them, distracted by
frequent revolutions, and thus incapable of regular and firm internal administration, has tended
to embarrass occasionally our public intercourse by reason of wrongs which our citizens suffer
at their hands, and which they are slow to redress.

Unfortunately, it is against the Republic of Mexico, with which it is our special desire to
maintain a good understanding, that such complaints are most numerous; and although earnestly
urged upon its attention, they have not as yet received the consideration which this Government
had a right to expect. While reparation for past injuries has been withheld, others have been
added. The political condition of that country, however, has been such as to demand forbearance
on the part of the United States. I shall continue my efforts to procure for the wrongs of
our citizens that redress which is indispensable to the continued friendly association of the
two Republics.

The peculiar condition of affairs in Nicaragua in the early part of the present year rendered
it important that this Government should have diplomatic relations with that State. Through
its territory had been opened one of the principal thoroughfares across the isthmus connecting
North and South America, on which a vast amount of property was transported and to which our
citizens resorted in great numbers in passing between the Atlantic and Pacific coasts of the
United States. The protection of both required that the existing power in that State should
be regarded as a responsible Government, and its minister was accordingly received. But he
remained here only a short time. Soon thereafter the political affairs of Nicaragua underwent
unfavorable change and became involved in much uncertainty and confusion. Diplomatic representatives
from two contending parties have been recently sent to this Government, but with the imperfect
information possessed it was not possible to decide which was the Government de facto, and,
awaiting further developments, I have refused to receive either.

Questions of the most serious nature are pending between the United States and the Republic
of New Granada. The Government of that Republic undertook a year since to impose tonnage duties
on foreign vessels in her ports, but the purpose was resisted by this Government as being contrary
to existing treaty stipulations with the United States and to rights conferred by charter upon
the Panama Railroad Company, and was accordingly refurbished at that time, it being admitted
that our vessels were entitled to be exempt from tonnage duty in the free ports of Panama and
Aspinwall. But the purpose has been recently revived on the part of New Granada by the enactment
of a law to subject vessels visiting her ports to the tonnage duty of 40 cents per ton, and
although the law has not been put in force, yet the right to enforce it is still asserted and
may at any time be acted on by the Government of that Republic.

The Congress of New Granada has also enacted a law during the last year which levies a tax
of more than $3 on every pound of mail matter transported across the Isthmus. The sum thus
required to be paid on the mails of the United States would be nearly $2,000,000 annually in
addition to the large sum payable by contract to the Panama Railroad Company. If the only objection
to this exaction were the exorbitancy of its amount, it could not be submitted to by the United
States.

The imposition of it, however, would obviously contravene our treaty with New Granada and infringe
the contract of that Republic with the Panama Railroad Company. The law providing for this
tax was by its terms to take effect on the 1st of September last, but the local authorities
on the Isthmus have been induced to suspend its execution and to await further instructions
on the subject from the Government of the Republic. I am not yet advised of the determination
of that Government. If a measure so extraordinary in its character and so clearly contrary
to treaty stipulations and the contract rights of the Panama Railroad Company, composed mostly
of American citizens, should be persisted in, it will be the duty of the United States to resist
its execution.

I regret exceedingly that occasion exists to invite your attention to a subject of still graver
import in our relations with the Republic of New Granada. On the 15th day of April last a riotous
assemblage of the inhabitants of Panama committed a violent and outrageous attack on the premises
of the railroad company and the passengers and other persons in or near the same, involving
the death of several citizens of the United States, the pillage of many others, and the destruction
of a large amount of property belonging to the railroad company. I caused full investigation
of that event to be made, and the result shows satisfactorily that complete responsibility
for what occurred attaches to the Government of New Granada. I have therefore demanded of that
Government that the perpetrators of the wrongs in question should be punished; that provision
should be made for the families of citizens of the United States who were killed, with full
indemnity for the property pillaged or destroyed.

The present condition of the Isthmus of Panama, in so far as regards the security of persons
and property passing over it, requires serious consideration. Recent incidents tend to show
that the local authorities can not be relied on to maintain the public peace of Panama, and
there is just ground for apprehension that a portion of the inhabitants are meditating further
outrages, without adequate measures for the security and protection of persons or property
having been taken, either by the State of Panama or by the General Government of New Granada.
Under the guaranties of treaty, citizens of the United States have, by the outlay of several
million dollars, constructed a railroad across the Isthmus, and it has become the main route
between our Atlantic and Pacific possessions, over which multitudes of our citizens and a vast
amount of property are constantly passing; to the security and protection of all which and
the continuance of the public advantages involved it is impossible for the Government of the
United States to be indifferent.

I have deemed the danger of the recurrence of scenes of lawless violence in this quarter so
imminent as to make it my duty to station a part of our naval force in the harbors of Panama
and Aspinwall, in order to protect the persons and property of the citizens of the United States
in those ports and to insure to them safe passage across the Isthmus. And it would, in my judgment,
be unwise to withdraw the naval force now in those ports until, by the spontaneous action of
the Republic of New Granada or otherwise, some adequate arrangement shall have been made for
the protection and security of a line of interoceanic communication, so important at this time
not to the United States only, but to all other maritime states, both of Europe and America.

Meanwhile negotiations have been instituted, by means of a special commission, to obtain from
New Granada full indemnity for injuries sustained by our citizens on the Isthmus and satisfactory
security for the general interests of the United States.

In addressing to you my last annual message the occasion seems to me an appropriate one to
express my congratulations, in view of the peace, greatness, and felicity which the United
States now possess and enjoy. To point you to the state of the various Departments of the Government
and of all the great branches of the public service, civil and military, in order to speak
of the intelligence and the integrity which pervades the whole, would be to indicate but imperfectly
the administrative condition of the country and the beneficial effects of that on the general
welfare. Nor would it suffice to say that the nation is actually at peace at home and abroad;
that its industrial interests are prosperous; that the canvas of its mariners whitens every
sea, and the plow of its husbandmen is marching steadily onward to the bloodless conquest of
the continent; that cities and populous States are springing up, as if by enchantment, from
the bosom of oar Western wilds, and that the courageous energy of our people is making of these
United States the great Republic of the world. These results have not been attained without
passing through trials and perils, by experience of which, and thus only, nations can harden
into manhood. Our forefathers were trained to the wisdom which conceived and the courage which
achieved independence by the circumstances which surrounded them, and they were thus made capable
of the creation of the Republic. It devolved on the next generation to consolidate the work
of the Revolution, to deliver the country entirely from the influences of conflicting transatlantic
partialities or antipathies which attached to our colonial and Revolutionary history, and to
organize the practical operation of the constitutional and legal institutions of the Union.
To us of this generation remains the not less noble task of maintaining and extending the national
power. We have at length reached that stage of our country's career in which the dangers to
be encountered and the exertions to be made are the incidents, not of weakness, but of strength.
In foreign relations we have to attemper our power to the less happy condition of other Republics
in America and to place ourselves in the calmness and conscious dignity of right by the side
of the greatest and wealthiest of the Empires of Europe. In domestic relations we have to guard
against the shock of the discontents, the ambitions, the interests, and the exuberant, and
therefore sometimes irregular, impulses of opinion or of action which are the natural product
of the present political elevation, the self-reliance, and the restless spirit of enterprise
of the people of the United States.

I shall prepare to surrender the Executive trust to my successor and retire to private life
with sentiments of profound gratitude to the good Providence which during the period of my
Administration has vouchsafed to carry the country through many difficulties, domestic and
foreign, and which enables me to contemplate the spectacle of amicable and respectful relations
between ours and all other governments and the establishment of constitutional order and tranquillity
throughout the Union.

But first and above all, our thanks are due to Almighty God for the numerous benefits which
He has bestowed upon this people, and our united prayers ought to ascend to Him that He would
continue to bless our great Republic in time to come as He has blessed it in time past. Since
the adjournment of the last Congress our constituents have enjoyed an unusual degree of health.
The earth has yielded her fruits abundantly and has bountifully rewarded the toil of the husbandman.
Our great staples have commanded high prices, and up till within a brief period our manufacturing,
mineral, and mechanical occupations have largely partaken of the general prosperity. We have
possessed all the elements of material wealth in rich abundance, and yet, notwithstanding all
these advantages, our country in its monetary interests is at the present moment in a deplorable
condition. In the midst of unsurpassed plenty in all the productions of agriculture and in
all the elements of national wealth, we find our manufactures suspended, our public works retarded,
our private enterprises of different kinds abandoned, and thousands of useful laborers thrown
out of employment and reduced to want. The revenue of the Government, which is chiefly derived
from duties on imports from abroad, has been greatly reduced, whilst the appropriations made
by Congress at its last session for the current fiscal year are very large in amount.

Under these circumstances a loan may be required before the close of your present session;
but this, although deeply to be regretted, would prove to be only a slight misfortune when
compared with the suffering and distress prevailing among the people. With this the Government
can not fail deeply to sympathize, though it may be without the power to extend relief.

It is our duty to inquire what has produced such unfortunate results and whether their recurrence
can be prevented. In all former revulsions the blame might have been fairly attributed to a
variety of cooperating causes, but not so upon the present occasion. It is apparent that our
existing misfortunes have proceeded solely from our extravagant and vicious system of paper
currency and bank credits, exciting the people to wild speculations and gambling in stocks.
These revulsions must continue to recur at successive intervals so long as the amount of the
paper currency and bank loans and discounts of the country shall be left to the discretion
of 1,400 irresponsible banking institutions, which from the very law of their nature will consult
the interest of their stockholders rather than the public welfare.

The framers of the Constitution, when they gave to Congress the power "to coin money and to
regulate the value thereof" and prohibited the States from coining money, emitting bills of
credit, or making anything but gold and silver coin a tender in payment of debts, supposed
they had protected the people against the evils of an excessive and irredeemable paper currency.
They are not responsible for the existing anomaly that a Government endowed with the sovereign
attribute of coining money and regulating the value thereof should have no power to prevent
others from driving this coin out of the country and filling up the channels of circulation
with paper which does not represent gold and silver.

It is one of the highest and most responsible duties of Government to insure to the people
a sound circulating medium, the amount of which ought to be adapted with the utmost possible
wisdom and skill to the wants of internal trade and foreign exchanges. If this be either greatly
above or greatly below the proper standard, the marketable value of every man's property is
increased or diminished in the same proportion, and injustice to individuals as well as incalculable
evils to the community are the consequence.

Unfortunately, under the construction of the Federal Constitution which has now prevailed too
long to be changed this important and delicate duty has been dissevered from the coining power
and virtually transferred to more than 1,400 State banks acting independently of each other
and regulating their paper issues almost exclusively by a regard to the present interest of
their stockholders. Exercising the sovereign power of providing a paper currency instead of
coin for the country, the first duty which these banks owe to the public is to keep in their
vaults a sufficient amount of gold and silver to insure the convertibility of their notes into
coin at all times and under all circumstances. No bank ought ever to be chartered without such
restrictions on its business as to secure this result. All other restrictions are comparatively
vain. This is the only true touchstone, the only efficient regulator of a paper currency--the
only one which can guard the public against overissues and bank suspensions. As a collateral
and eventual security, it is doubtless wise, and in all cases ought to be required, that banks
shall hold an amount of United States or State securities equal to their notes in circulation
and pledged for their redemption. This, however, furnishes no adequate security against overissue.
On the contrary, it may be perverted to inflate the currency. Indeed, it is possible by this
means to convert all the debts of the United States and State Governments into bank notes,
without reference to the specie required to redeem them. However valuable these securities
may be in themselves, they can not be converted into gold and silver at the moment of pressure,
as our experience teaches, in sufficient time to prevent bank suspensions and the depreciation
of bank notes. In England, which is to a considerable extent a paper-money country, though
vastly behind our own in this respect, it was deemed advisable, anterior to the act of Parliament
of 1844, which wisely separated the issue of notes from the banking department, for the Bank
of England always to keep on hand gold and silver equal to one-third of its combined circulation
and deposits. If this proportion was no more than sufficient to secure the convertibility of
its notes with the whole of Great Britain and to some extent the continent of Europe as a field
for its circulation, rendering it almost impossible that a sudden and immediate run to a dangerous
amount should be made upon it, the same proportion would certainly be insufficient under our
banking system. Each of our 1,400 banks has but a limited circumference for its circulation,
and in the course of a very few days the depositors and note holders might demand from such
a bank a sufficient amount in specie to compel it to suspend, even although it had coin in
its vaults equal to one-third of its immediate liabilities. And yet I am not aware, with the
exception of the banks of Louisiana, that any State bank throughout the Union has been required
by its charter to keep this or any other proportion of gold and silver compared with the amount
of its combined circulation and deposits. What has been the consequence? In a recent report
made by the Treasury Department on the condition of the banks throughout the different States,
according to returns dated nearest to January, 1857, the aggregate amount of actual specie
in their vaults is $58,349,838, of their circulation $214,778,822, and of their deposits $230,351,352.
Thus it appears that these banks in the aggregate have considerably less than one dollar in
seven of gold and silver compared with their circulation and deposits. It was palpable, therefore,
that the very first pressure must drive them to suspension and deprive the people of a convertible
currency, with all its disastrous consequences. It is truly wonderful that they should have
so long continued to preserve their credit when a demand for the payment of one-seventh of
their immediate liabilities would have driven them into insolvency. And this is the condition
of the banks, notwithstanding that four hundred millions of gold from California have flowed
in upon us within the last eight years, and the tide still continues to flow. Indeed, such
has been the extravagance of bank credits that the banks now hold a considerably less amount
of specie, either in proportion to their capital or to their circulation and deposits combined,
than they did before the discovery of gold in California. Whilst in the year 1848 their specie
in proportion to their capital was more than equal to one dollar for four and a half, in 1857
it does not amount to one dollar for every six dollars and thirty-three cents of their capital.
In the year 1848 the specie was equal within a very small fraction to one dollar in five of
their circulation and deposits; in 1857 it is not equal to one dollar in seven and a half of
their circulation and deposits.

From this statement it is easy to account for our financial history for the last forty years.
It has been a history of extravagant expansions in the business of the country, followed by
ruinous contractions. At successive intervals the best and most enterprising men have been
tempted to their ruin by excessive bank loans of mere paper credit, exciting them to extravagant
importations of foreign goods, wild speculations, and ruinous and demoralizing stock gambling.
When the crisis arrives, as arrive it must, the banks can extend no relief to the people. In
a vain struggle to redeem their liabilities in specie they are compelled to contract their
loans and their issues, and at last, in the hour of distress, when their assistance is most
needed, they and their debtors together sink into insolvency.

It is this paper system of extravagant expansion, raising the nominal price of every article
far beyond its real value when compared with the cost of similar articles in countries whose
circulation is wisely regulated, which has prevented us from competing in our own markets with
foreign manufacturers, has produced extravagant importations, and has counteracted the effect
of the large incidental protection afforded to our domestic manufactures by the present revenue
tariff. But for this the branches of our manufactures composed of raw materials, the production
of our own country--such as cotton, iron, and woolen fabrics--would not only have acquired
almost exclusive possession of the home market, but would have created for themselves a foreign
market throughout the world.

Deplorable, however, as may be our present financial condition, we may yet indulge in bright
hopes for the future. No other nation has ever existed which could have endured such violent
expansions and contractions of paper credits without lasting injury; yet the buoyancy of youth,
the energies of our population, and the spirit which never quails before difficulties will
enable us soon to recover from our present financial embarrassments, and may even occasion
us speedily to forget the lesson which they have taught. In the meantime it is the duty of
the Government, by all proper means within its power, to aid in alleviating the sufferings
of the people occasioned by the suspension of the banks and to provide against a recurrence
of the same calamity. Unfortunately, in either aspect of the case it can do but little. Thanks
to the independent treasury, the Government has not suspended payment, as it was compelled
to do by the failure of the banks in 1837. It will continue to discharge its liabilities to
the people in gold and silver. Its disbursements in coin will pass into circulation and materially
assist in restoring a sound currency. From its high credit, should we be compelled to make
a temporary loan, it can be effected on advantageous terms. This, however, shall if possible
be avoided, but if not, then the amount shall be limited to the lowest practicable sum.

I have therefore determined that whilst no useful Government works already in progress shall
be suspended, new works not already commenced will be postponed if this can be done without
injury to the country. Those necessary for its defense shall proceed as though there had been
no crisis in our monetary affairs.

But the Federal Government can not do much to provide against a recurrence of existing evils.
Even if insurmountable constitutional objections did not exist against the creation of a national
bank, this would furnish no adequate preventive security. The history of the last Bank of the
United States abundantly proves the truth of this assertion. Such a bank could not, if it would,
regulate the issues and credits of 1,400 State banks in such a manner as to prevent the ruinous
expansions and contractions in our currency which afflicted the country throughout the existence
of the late bank, or secure us against future suspensions. In 1825 an effort was made by the
Bank of England to curtail the issues of the country banks under the most favorable circumstances.
The paper currency had been expanded to a ruinous extent, and the bank put forth all its power
to contract it in order to reduce prices and restore the equilibrium of the foreign exchanges.
It accordingly commenced a system of curtailment of its loans and issues, in the vain hope
that the joint stock and private banks of the Kingdom would be compelled to follow its example.
It found, however, that as it contracted they expanded, and at the end of the process, to employ
the language of a very high official authority, "whatever reduction of the paper circulation
was effected by the Bank of England (in 1825) was more than made up by the issues of the country
banks."

But a bank of the United States would not, if it could, restrain the issues and loans of the
State banks, because its duty as a regulator of the currency must often be in direct conflict
with the immediate interest of its stockholders. If we expect one agent to restrain or control
another, their interests must, at least in some degree, be antagonistic. But the directors
of a bank of the United States would feel the same interest and the same inclination with the
directors of the State banks to expand the currency, to accommodate their favorites and friends
with loans, and to declare large dividends. Such has been our experience in regard to the last
bank.

After all, we must mainly rely upon the patriotism and wisdom of the States for the prevention
and redress of the evil. If they will afford us a real specie basis for our paper circulation
by increasing the denomination of bank notes, first to twenty and afterwards to fifty dollars;
if they will require that the banks shall at all times keep on hand at least one dollar of
gold and silver for every three dollars of their circulation and deposits, and if they will
provide by a self-executing enactment, which nothing can arrest, that the moment they suspend
they shall go into liquidation, I believe that such provisions, with a weekly publication by
each bank of a statement of its condition, would go far to secure us against future suspensions
of specie payments.

Congress, in my opinion, possess the power to pass a uniform bankrupt law applicable to all
banking institutions throughout the United States, and I strongly recommend its exercise. This
would make it the irreversible organic law of each bank's existence that a suspension of specie
payments shall produce its civil death. The instinct of self-preservation would then compel
it to perform its duties in such a manner as to escape the penalty and preserve its life.

The existence of banks and the circulation of bank paper are so identified with the habits
of our people that they can not at this day be suddenly abolished without much immediate injury
to the country. If we could confine them to their appropriate sphere and prevent them from
administering to the spirit of wild and reckless speculation by extravagant loans and issues,
they might be continued with advantage to the public.

But this I say, after long and much reflection: If experience shall prove it to be impossible
to enjoy the facilities which well-regulated banks might afford without at the same time suffering
the calamities which the excesses of the banks have hitherto inflicted upon the country, it
would then be far the lesser evil to deprive them altogether of the power to issue a paper
currency and confine them to the functions of banks of deposit and discount.

Our relations with foreign governments are upon the whole in a satisfactory condition.

The diplomatic difficulties which existed between the Government of the United States and that
of Great Britain at the adjournment of the last Congress have been happily terminated by the
appointment of a British minister to this country, who has been cordially received. Whilst
it is greatly to the interest, as I am convinced it is the sincere desire, of the Governments
and people of the two countries to be on terms of intimate friendship with each other, it has
been our misfortune almost always to have had some irritating, if not dangerous, outstanding
question with Great Britain.

Since the origin of the Government we have been employed in negotiating treaties with that
power, and afterwards in discussing their true intent and meaning. In this respect the convention
of April 19, 1850, commonly called the Clayton and Bulwer treaty, has been the most unfortunate
of all, because the two Governments place directly opposite and contradictory constructions
upon its first and most important article. Whilst in the United States we believed that this
treaty would place both powers upon an exact equality by the stipulation that neither will
ever "occupy, or fortify, or colonize, or assume, or exercise any dominion" over any part of
Central America, it is contended by the British Government that the true construction of this
language has left them in the rightful possession of all that portion of Central America which
was in their occupancy at the date of the treaty; in fact, that the treaty is a virtual recognition
on the part of the United States of the right of Great Britain, either as owner or protector,
to the whole extensive coast of Central America, sweeping round from the Rio Hondo to the port
and harbor of San Juan de Nicaragua, together with the adjacent Bay Islands, except the comparatively
small portion of this between the Sarstoon and Cape Honduras. According to their construction,
the treaty does no more than simply prohibit them from extending their possessions in Central
America beyond the present limits. It is not too much to assert that if in the United States
the treaty had been considered susceptible of such a construction it never would have been
negotiated under the authority of the President, nor would it have received the approbation
of the Senate. The universal conviction in the United States was that when our Government consented
to violate its traditional and time-honored policy and to stipulate with a foreign government
never to occupy or acquire territory in the Central American portion of our own continent,
the consideration for this sacrifice was that Great Britain should, in this respect at least,
be placed in the same position with ourselves. Whilst we have no right to doubt the sincerity
of the British Government in their construction of the treaty, it is at the same time my deliberate
conviction that this construction is in opposition both to its letter and its spirit.

Under the late Administration negotiations were instituted between the two Governments for
the purpose, if possible, of removing these difficulties, and a treaty having this laudable
object in view was signed at London on the 17th October, 1856, and was submitted by the President
to the Senate on the following 10th of December. Whether this treaty, either in its original
or amended form, would have accomplished the object intended without giving birth to new and
embarrassing complications between the two Governments, may perhaps be well questioned. Certain
it is, however, it was rendered much less objectionable by the different amendments made to
it by the Senate. The treaty as amended was ratified by me on the 12th March, 1857, and was
transmitted to London for ratification by the British Government. That Government expressed
its willingness to concur in all the amendments made by the Senate with the single exception
of the clause relating to Ruatan and the other islands in the Bay of Honduras. The article
in the original treaty as submitted to the Senate, after reciting that these islands and their
inhabitants "having been, by a convention bearing date the 27th day of August, 1856, between
Her Britannic Majesty and the Republic of Honduras, constituted and declared a free territory
under the sovereignty of the said Republic of Honduras," stipulated that "the two contracting
parties do hereby mutually engage to recognize and respect in all future time the independence
and rights of the said free territory as a part of the Republic of Honduras."

Upon an examination of this convention between Great Britain and Honduras of the 27th August,
1856, it was found that whilst declaring the Bay Islands to be "a free territory under the
sovereignty of the Republic of Honduras" it deprived that Republic of rights without which
its sovereignty over them could scarcely be said to exist. It divided them from the remainder
of Honduras and gave to their inhabitants a separate government of their own, with legislative,
executive, and judicial officers elected by themselves. It deprived the Government of Honduras
of the taxing power in every form and exempted the people of the islands from the performance
of military duty except for their own exclusive defense. It also prohibited that Republic from
erecting fortifications upon them for their protection, thus leaving them open to invasion
from any quarter; and, finally, it provided "that slavery shall not at any time hereafter be
permitted to exist therein."

Had Honduras ratified this convention, she would have ratified the establishment of a state
substantially independent within her own limits, and a state at all times subject to British
influence and control. Moreover, had the United States ratified the treaty with Great Britain
in its original form, we should have been bound "to recognize and respect in all future time"
these stipulations to the prejudice of Honduras. Being in direct opposition to the spirit and
meaning of the Clayton and Bulwer treaty as understood in the United States, the Senate rejected
the entire clause, and substituted in its stead a simple recognition of the sovereign right
of Honduras to these islands in the following language: The two contracting parties do hereby
mutually engage to recognize and respect the islands of Ruatan, Bonaco, Utila, Barbaretta,
Helena, and Moral, situate in the Bay of Honduras and off the coast of the Republic of Honduras,
as under the sovereignty and as part of the said Republic of Honduras.

Great Britain rejected this amendment, assigning as the only reason that the ratifications
of the convention of the 27th August, 1856, between her and Honduras had not been "exchanged,
owing to the hesitation of that Government." Had this been done, it is stated that "Her Majesty's
Government would have had little difficulty in agreeing to the modification proposed by the
Senate, which then would have had in effect the same signification as the original wording."
Whether this would have been the effect, whether the mere circumstance of the exchange of the
ratifications of the British convention with Honduras prior in point of time to the ratification
of our treaty with Great Britain would "in effect" have had "the same signification as the
original wording," and thus have nullified the amendment of the Senate, may well be doubted.
It is, perhaps, fortunate that the question has never arisen.

The British Government, immediately after rejecting the treaty as amended, proposed to enter
into a new treaty with the United States, similar in all respects to the treaty which they
had just refused to ratify, if the United States would consent to add to the Senate's clear
and unqualified recognition of the sovereignty of Honduras over the Bay Islands the following
conditional stipulation: Whenever and so soon as the Republic of Honduras shall have concluded
and ratified a treaty with Great Britain by which Great Britain shall have ceded and the Republic
of Honduras shall have accepted the said islands, subject to the provisions and conditions
contained in such treaty.

This proposition was, of course, rejected. After the Senate had refused to recognize the British
convention with Honduras of the 27th August, 1856, with full knowledge of its contents, it
was impossible for me, necessarily ignorant of "the provisions and conditions" which might
be contained in a future convention between the same parties, to sanction them in advance.

The fact is that when two nations like Great Britain and the United States, mutually desirous,
as they are, and I trust ever may be, of maintaining the most friendly relations with each
other, have unfortunately concluded a treaty which they understand in senses directly opposite,
the wisest course is to abrogate such a treaty by mutual consent and to commence anew. Had
this been done promptly, all difficulties in Central America would most probably ere this have
been adjusted to the satisfaction of both parties. The time spent in discussing the meaning
of the Clayton and Bulwer treaty would have been devoted to this praiseworthy purpose, and
the task would have been the more easily accomplished because the interest of the two countries
in Central America is identical, being confined to securing safe transits over all the routes
across the Isthmus.

Whilst entertaining these sentiments, I shall, nevertheless, not refuse to contribute to any
reasonable adjustment of the Central American questions which is not practically inconsistent
with the American interpretation of the treaty. Overtures for this purpose have been recently
made by the British Government in a friendly spirit, which I cordially reciprocate, but whether
this renewed effort will result in success I am not yet prepared to express an opinion. A brief
period will determine.

With France our ancient relations of friendship still continue to exist. The French Government
have in several recent instances, which need not be enumerated, evinced a spirit of good will
and kindness toward our country, which I heartily reciprocate. It is, notwithstanding, much
to be regretted that two nations whose productions are of such a character as to invite the
most extensive exchanges and freest commercial intercourse should continue to enforce ancient
and obsolete restrictions of trade against each other. Our commercial treaty with France is
in this respect an exception from our treaties with all other commercial nations. It jealously
levies discriminating duties both on tonnage and on articles the growth, produce, or manufacture
of the one country when arriving in vessels belonging to the other.

More than forty years ago, on the 3d March, 1815, Congress passed an act offering to all nations
to admit their vessels laden with their national productions into the ports of the United States
upon the same terms with our own vessels provided they would reciprocate to us similar advantages.
This act confined the reciprocity to the productions of the respective foreign nations who
might enter into the proposed arrangement with the United States. The act of May 24, 1828,
removed this restriction and offered a similar reciprocity to all such vessels without reference
to the origin of their cargoes. Upon these principles our commercial treaties and arrangements
have been rounded, except with France, and let us hope that this exception may not long exist.

Our relations with Russia remain, as they have ever been, on the most friendly footing. The
present Emperor, as well as his predecessors, have never failed when the occasion offered to
manifest their good will to our country, and their friendship has always been highly appreciated
by the Government and people of the United States.

With all other European Governments, except that of Spain, our relations are as peaceful as
we could desire. I regret to say that no progress whatever has been made since the adjournment
of Congress toward the settlement of any of the numerous claims of our citizens against the
Spanish Government. Besides, the outrage committed on our flag by the Spanish war frigate Ferrolana
on the high seas off the coast of Cuba in March, 1855, by firing into the American mail steamer
El Dorado and detaining and searching her, remains unacknowledged and unredressed. The general
tone and temper of the Spanish Government toward that of the United States are much to be regretted.
Our present envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary to Madrid has asked to be recalled,
and it is my purpose to send out a new minister to Spain with special instructions on all questions
pending between the two Governments, and with a determination to have them speedily and amicably
adjusted if this be possible. A similar recommendation was made by my immediate predecessor
in his message of December, 1853, and entirely concurring with both in the opinion that this
indemnity is justly due under the treaty with Spain of the 27th of October, 1795, I earnestly
recommend such an appropriation to the favorable consideration of Congress.

A treaty of friendship and commerce was concluded at Constantinople on the 13th December, 1856,
between the United States and Persia, the ratifications of which were exchanged at Constantinople
on the 13th June, 1857, and the treaty was proclaimed by the President on the 18th August,
1857. This treaty, it is believed, will prove beneficial to American commerce. The Shah has
manifested an earnest disposition to cultivate friendly relations with our country, and has
expressed a strong wish that we should be represented at Teheran by a minister plenipotentiary;
and I recommend that an appropriation be made for this purpose.

Recent occurrences in China have been unfavorable to a revision of the treaty with that Empire
of the 3d July, 1844, with a view to the security and extension of our commerce. The twenty-fourth
article of this treaty stipulated for a revision of it in case experience should prove this
to be requisite, "in which case the two Governments will, at the expiration of twelve years
from the date of said convention, treat amicably concerning the same by means of suitable persons
appointed to conduct such negotiations." These twelve years expired on the 3d July, 1856, but
long before that period it was ascertained that important changes in the treaty were necessary,
and several fruitless attempts were made by the commissioner of the United States to effect
these changes. Another effort was about to be made for the same purpose by our commissioner
in conjunction with the ministers of England and France, but this was suspended by the occurrence
of hostilities in the Canton River between Great Britain and the Chinese Empire. These hostilities
have necessarily interrupted the trade of all nations with Canton, which is now in a state
of blockade, and have occasioned a serious loss of life and property. Meanwhile the insurrection
within the Empire against the existing imperial dynasty still continues, and it is difficult
to anticipate what will be the result.

Under these circumstances I have deemed it advisable to appoint a distinguished citizen of
Pennsylvania envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary to proceed to China and to avail
himself of any opportunities which may offer to effect changes in the existing treaty favorable
to American commerce. He left the United States for the place of his destination in July last
in the war steamer Minnesota. Special ministers to China have also been appointed by the Governments
of Great Britain and France.

Whilst our minister has been instructed to occupy a neutral position in reference to the existing
hostilities at Canton, he will cordially cooperate with the British and French ministers in
all peaceful measures to secure by treaty stipulations those just concessions to commerce which
the nations of the world have a right to expect and which China can not long be permitted to
withhold. From assurances received I entertain no doubt that the three ministers will act in
harmonious concert to obtain similar commercial treaties for each of the powers they represent.

We can not fail to feel a deep interest in all that concerns the welfare of the independent
Republics on our own continent, as well as of the Empire of Brazil.

Our difficulties with New Granada, which a short time since bore so threatening an aspect,
are, it is to be hoped, in a fair train of settlement in a manner just and honorable to both
parties.

The isthmus of Central America, including that of Panama, is the great highway between the
Atlantic and Pacific over which a large portion of the commerce of the world is destined to
pass. The United States are more deeply interested than any other nation in preserving the
freedom and security of all the communications across this isthmus. It is our duty, therefore,
to take care that they shall not be interrupted either by invasions from our own country or
by wars between the independent States of Central America. Under our treaty with New Granada
of the 12th December, 1846, we are bound to guarantee the neutrality of the Isthmus of Panama,
through which the Panama Railroad passes, "as well as the rights of sovereignty and property
which New Granada has and possesses over the said territory." This obligation is rounded upon
equivalents granted by the treaty to the Government and people of the United States.

Under these circumstances I recommend to Congress the passage of an act authorizing the President,
in case of necessity, to employ the land and naval forces of the United States to carry into
effect this guaranty of neutrality and protection. I also recommend similar legislation for
the security of any other route across the Isthmus in which we may acquire an interest by treaty.

With the independent Republics on this continent it is both our duty and our interest to cultivate
the most friendly relations. We can never feel indifferent to their fate, and must always rejoice
in their prosperity. Unfortunately both for them and for us, our example and advice have lost
much of their influence in consequence of the lawless expeditions which have been fitted out
against some of them within the limits of our country. Nothing is better calculated to retard
our steady material progress or impair our character as a nation than the toleration of such
enterprises in violation of the law of nations.

It is one of the first and highest duties of any independent state in its relations with the
members of the great family of nations to restrain its people from acts of hostile aggression
against their citizens or subjects. The most eminent writers on public law do not hesitate
to denounce such hostile acts as robbery and murder.

Weak and feeble states like those of Central America may not feel themselves able to assert
and vindicate their rights. The case would be far different if expeditions were set on foot
within our own territories to make private war against a powerful nation. If such expeditions
were fitted out from abroad against any portion of our own country, to burn down our cities,
murder and plunder our people, and usurp our Government, we should call any power on earth
to the strictest account for not preventing such enormities.

Ever since the Administration of General Washington acts of Congress have been enforced to
punish severely the crime of setting on foot a military expedition within the limits of the
United States to proceed from thence against a nation or state with whom we are at peace. The
present neutrality act of April 20, 1818, is but little more than a collection of preexisting
laws. Under this act the President is empowered to employ the land and naval forces and the
militia "for the purpose of preventing the carrying on of any such expedition or enterprise
from the territories and jurisdiction of the United States," and the collectors of customs
are authorized and required to detain any vessel in port when there is reason to believe she
is about to take part in such lawless enterprises.

When it was first rendered probable that an attempt would be made to get up another unlawful
expedition against Nicaragua, the Secretary of State issued instructions to the marshals and
district attorneys, which were directed by the Secretaries of War and the Navy to the appropriate
army and navy officers, requiring them to be vigilant and to use their best exertions in carrying
into effect the provisions of the act of 1818. Notwithstanding these precautions, the expedition
has escaped from our shores. Such enterprises can do no possible good to the country, but have
already inflicted much injury both on its interests and its character. They have prevented
peaceful emigration from the United States to the States of Central America, which could not
fail to prove highly beneficial to all the parties concerned. In a pecuniary point of view
alone our citizens have sustained heavy losses from the seizure and closing of the transit
route by the San Juan between the two oceans.

The leader of the recent expedition was arrested at New Orleans, but was discharged on giving
bail for his appearance in the insufficient sum of $2,000.

I commend the whole subject to the serious attention of Congress, believing that our duty and
our interest, as well as our national character, require that we should adopt such measures
as will be effectual in restraining our citizens from committing such outrages.

I regret to inform you that the President of Paraguay has refused to ratify the treaty between
the United States and that State as amended by the Senate, the signature of which was mentioned
in the message of my predecessor to Congress at the opening of its session in December, 1853.
The reasons assigned for this refusal will appear in the correspondence herewith submitted.

It being desirable to ascertain the fitness of the river La Plata and its tributaries for navigation
by steam, the United States steamer Water Witch was sent thither for that purpose in 1853.
This enterprise was successfully carried on until February, 1855, when, whilst in the peaceful
prosecution of her voyage up the Parana River, the steamer was fired upon by a Paraguayan fort.
The fire was returned, but as the Water Witch was of small force and not designed for offensive
operations, she retired from the conflict. The pretext upon which the attack was made was a
decree of the President of Paraguay of October, 1854, prohibiting foreign vessels of war from
navigating the rivers of that State. As Paraguay, however, was the owner of but one bank of
the river of that name, the other belonging to Corientes, a State of the Argentine Confederation,
the right of its Government to expect that such a decree would be obeyed can not be acknowledged.
But the Water Witch was not, properly speaking, a vessel of war. She was a small steamer engaged
in a scientific enterprise intended for the advantage of commercial states generally. Under
these circumstances I am constrained to consider the attack upon her as unjustifiable and as
calling for satisfaction from the Paraguayan Government.

Citizens of the United States also who were established in business in Paraguay have had their
property seized and taken from them, and have otherwise been treated by the authorities in
an insulting and arbitrary manner, which requires redress.

A demand for these purposes will be made in a firm but conciliatory spirit. This will the more
probably be granted if the Executive shall have authority to use other means in the event of
a refusal. This is accordingly recommended.

It is unnecessary to state in detail the alarming condition of the Territory of Kansas at the
time of my inauguration. The opposing parties then stood in hostile array against each other,
and any accident might have relighted the flames of civil war. Besides, at this critical moment
Kansas was left without a governor by the resignation of Governor Geary.

On the 19th of February previous the Territorial legislature had passed a law providing for
the election of delegates on the third Monday of June to a convention to meet on the first
Monday of September for the purpose of framing a constitution preparatory to admission into
the Union. This law was in the main fair and just, and it is to be regretted that all the qualified
electors had not registered themselves and voted under its provisions.

At the time of the election for delegates an extensive organization existed in the Territory
whose avowed object it was, if need be, to put down the lawful government by force and to establish
a government of their own under the so-called Topeka constitution. The persons attached to
this revolutionary organization abstained from taking any part in the election.

The act of the Territorial legislature had omitted to provide for submitting to the people
the constitution which might be framed by the convention, and in the excited state of public
feeling throughout Kansas an apprehension extensively prevailed that a design existed to force
upon them a constitution in relation to slavery against their will. In this emergency it became
my duty, as it was my unquestionable right, having in view the union of all good citizens in
support of the Territorial laws, to express an opinion on the true construction of the provisions
concerning slavery contained in the organic act of Congress of the 30th May, 1854. Under it
Kansas, "when admitted as a State," was to "be received into the Union with or without slavery,
as their constitution may prescribe at the time of their admission."

Did Congress mean by this language that the delegates elected to frame a constitution should
have authority finally to decide the question of slavery, or did they intend by leaving it
to the people that the people of Kansas themselves should decide this question by a direct
vote? On this subject I confess I had never entertained a serious doubt, and therefore in my
instructions to Governor Walker of the 28th March last I merely said that when "a constitution
shall be submitted to the people of the Territory they must be protected in the exercise of
their right of voting for or against that instrument, and the fair expression of the popular
will must not be interrupted by fraud or violence."

In expressing this opinion it was far from my intention to interfere with the decision of the
people of Kansas, either for or against slavery. From this I have always carefully abstained.
Intrusted with the duty of taking "care that the laws be faithfully executed," my only desire
was that the people of Kansas should furnish to Congress the evidence required by the organic
act, whether for or against slavery, and in this manner smooth their passage into the Union.
In emerging from the condition of Territorial dependence into that of a sovereign State it
was their duty, in my opinion, to make known their will by the votes of the majority on the
direct question whether this important domestic institution should or should not continue to
exist. Indeed, this was the only possible mode in which their will could be authentically ascertained.

The election of delegates to a convention must necessarily take place in separate districts.
From this cause it may readily happen, as has often been the case, that a majority of the people
of a State or Territory are on one side of a question, whilst a majority of the representatives
from the several districts into which it is divided may be upon the other side. This arises
front the fact that in some districts delegates may be elected by small majorities, whilst
in others those of different sentiments may receive majorities sufficiently great not only
to overcome the votes given for the former, but to leave a large majority of the whole people
in direct opposition to a majority of the delegates. Besides, our history proves that influences
may be brought to bear on the representative sufficiently powerful to induce him to disregard
the will of his constituents. The truth is that no other authentic and satisfactory mode exists
of ascertaining the will of a majority of the people of any State or Territory on an important
and exciting question like that of slavery in Kansas except by leaving it to a direct vote.
How wise, then, was it for Congress to pass over all subordinate and intermediate agencies
and proceed directly to the source of all legitimate power under our institutions!

How vain would any other principle prove in practice! This may be illustrated by the case of
Kansas. Should she be admitted into the Union with a constitution either maintaining or abolishing
slavery against the sentiment of the people, this could have no other effect than to continue
and to exasperate the existing agitation during the brief period required to make the constitution
conform to the irresistible will of the majority.

The friends and supporters of the Nebraska and Kansas act, when struggling on a recent occasion
to sustain its wise provisions before the great tribunal of the American people, never differed
about its true meaning on this subject. Everywhere throughout the Union they publicly pledged
their faith and their honor that they would cheerfully submit the question of slavery to the
decision of the bona fide people of Kansas, without any restriction or qualification whatever.
All were cordially united upon the great doctrine of popular sovereignty, which is the vital
principle of our free institutions. Had it then been insinuated from any quarter that it would
be a sufficient compliance with the requisitions of the organic law for the members of a convention
thereafter to be elected to withhold the question of slavery from the people and to substitute
their own will for that of a legally ascertained majority of all their constituents, this would
have been instantly rejected. Everywhere they remained true to the resolution adopted on a
celebrated occasion recognizing "the right of the people of all the Territories, including
Kansas and Nebraska, acting through the legally and fairly expressed will of a majority of
actual residents, and whenever the number of their inhabitants justifies it, to form a constitution
with or without slavery and be admitted into the Union upon terms of perfect equality with
the other States."

The convention to frame a constitution for Kansas met on the first Monday of September last.
They were called together by virtue of an act of the Territorial legislature, whose lawful
existence had been recognized by Congress in different forms and by different enactments. A
large proportion of the citizens of Kansas did not think proper to register their names and
to vote at the election for delegates; but an opportunity to do this having been fairly afforded,
their refusal to avail themselves of their right could in no manner affect the legality of
the convention. This convention proceeded to frame a constitution for Kansas, and finally adjourned
on the 7th day of November. But little difficulty occurred in the convention except on the
subject of slavery. The truth is that the general provisions of our recent State constitutions
are so similar and, I may add, so excellent that the difference between them is not essential.
Under the earlier practice of the Government no constitution framed by the convention of a
Territory preparatory to its admission into the Union as a State had been submitted to the
people. I trust, however, the example set by the last Congress, requiring that the constitution
of Minnesota "should be subject to the approval and ratification of the people of the proposed
State," may be followed on future occasions. I took it for granted that the convention of Kansas
would act in accordance with this example, rounded, as it is, on correct principles, and hence
my instructions to Governor Walker in favor of submitting the constitution to the people were
expressed in general and unqualified terms.

In the Kansas-Nebraska act, however, this requirement, as applicable to the whole constitution,
had not been inserted, and the convention were not bound by its terms to submit any other portion
of the instrument to an election except that which relates to the "domestic institution" of
slavery. This will be rendered clear by a simple reference to its language. According to the
plain construction of the sentence, the words "domestic institutions" have a direct, as they
have an appropriate, reference to slavery. "Domestic institutions" are limited to the family.
The relation between master and slave and a few others are "domestic institutions," and are
entirely distinct from institutions of a political character. Besides, there was no question
then before Congress, nor, indeed, has there since been any serious question before the people
of Kansas or the country, except that which relates to the "domestic institution" of slavery.
The convention, after an angry and excited debate, finally determined, by a majority of only
two, to submit the question of slavery to the people, though at the last forty-three of the
fifty delegates present affixed their signatures to the constitution.

A large majority of the convention were in favor of establishing slavery in Kansas. They accordingly
inserted an article in the constitution for this purpose similar in form to those which had
been adopted by other Territorial conventions. In the schedule, however, providing for the
transition from a Territorial to a State government the question has been fairly and explicitly
referred to the people whether they will have a constitution "with or without slavery." It
declares that before the constitution adopted by the convention "shall be sent to Congress
for admission into the Union as a State" an election shall be held to decide this question,
at which all the white male inhabitants of the Territory above the age of 21 are entitled to
vote. They are to vote by ballot, and "the ballots cast at said election shall be indorsed
'constitution with slavery' and 'constitution with no slavery.'" If there be a majority in
favor of the "constitution with slavery," then it is to be transmitted to Congress by the president
of the convention in its original form; if, on the contrary, there shall be a majority in favor
of the "constitution with no slavery," "then the article providing for slavery shall be stricken
from the constitution by the president of this convention;" and it is expressly declared that
"no slavery shall exist in the State of Kansas, except that the right of property in slaves
now in the Territory shall in no manner be interfered with;" and in that event it is made his
duty to have the constitution thus ratified transmitted to the Congress of the United States
for the admission of the State into the Union.

At this election every citizen will have an opportunity of expressing his opinion by his vote
"whether Kansas shall be received into the Union with or without slavery," and thus this exciting
question may be peacefully settled in the very mode required by the organic law. The election
will be held under legitimate authority, and if any portion of the inhabitants shall refuse
to vote, a fair opportunity to do so having been presented, this will be their own voluntary
act and they alone will be responsible for the consequences.

Whether Kansas shall be a free or a slave State must eventually, under some authority, be decided
by an election; and the question can never be more clearly or distinctly presented to the people
than it is at the present moment. Should this opportunity be rejected she may be involved for
years in domestic discord, and possibly in civil war, before she can again make up the issue
now so fortunately tendered and again reach the point she has already attained.

Kansas has for some years occupied too much of the public attention. It is high time this should
be directed to far more important objects. When once admitted into the Union, whether with
or without slavery, the excitement beyond her own limits will speedily pass away, and she will
then for the first time be left, as she ought to have been long since, to manage her own affairs
in her own way. If her constitution on the subject of slavery or on any other subject be displeasing
to a majority of the people, no human power can prevent them from changing it within a brief
period. Under these circumstances it may well be questioned whether the peace and quiet of
the whole country are not of greater importance than the mere temporary triumph of either of
the political parties in Kansas.

Should the constitution without slavery be adopted by the votes of the majority, the rights
of property in slaves now in the Territory are reserved. The number of these is very small,
but if it were greater the provision would be equally just and reasonable. The slaves were
brought into the Territory under the Constitution of the United States and are now the property
of their masters. This point has at length been finally decided by the highest judicial tribunal
of the country, and this upon the plain principle that when a confederacy of sovereign States
acquire a new territory at their joint expense both equality and justice demand that the citizens
of one and all of them shall have the right to take into it whatsoever is recognized as property
by the common Constitution. To have summarily confiscated the property in slaves already in
the Territory would have been an act of gross injustice and contrary to the practice of the
older States of the Union which have abolished slavery.

A Territorial government was established for Utah by act of Congress approved the 9th September,
1850, and the Constitution and laws of the United States were thereby extended over it "so
far as the same or any provisions thereof may be applicable." This act provided for the appointment
by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, of a governor (who was
to be ex officio superintendent of Indian affairs), a secretary, three judges of the supreme
court, a marshal, and a district attorney. Subsequent acts provided for the appointment of
the officers necessary to extend our land and our Indian system over the Territory. Brigham
Young was appointed the first governor on the 20th September, 1850, and has held the office
ever since. Whilst Governor Young has been both governor and superintendent of Indian affairs
throughout this period, he has been at the same time the head of the church called the Latter-day
Saints, and professes to govern its members and dispose of their property by direct inspiration
and authority from the Almighty. His power has been, therefore, absolute over both church and
state.

The people of Utah almost exclusively belong to this church, and believing with a fanatical
spirit that he is governor of the Territory by divine appointment, they obey his commands as
if these were direct revelations from Heaven. If, therefore, he chooses that his government
shall come into collision with the Government of the United States, the members of the Mormon
Church will yield implicit obedience to his will. Unfortunately, existing facts leave but little
doubt that such is his determination. Without entering upon a minute history of occurrences,
it is sufficient to say that all the officers of the United States, judicial and executive,
with the single exception of two Indian agents, have found it necessary for their own personal
safety to withdraw from the Territory, and there no longer remains any government in Utah but
the despotism of Brigham Young. This being the condition of affairs in the Territory, I could
not mistake the path of duty. As Chief Executive Magistrate I was bound to restore the supremacy
of the Constitution and laws within its limits. In order to effect this purpose, I appointed
a new governor and other Federal officers for Utah and sent with them a military force for
their protection and to aid as a posse comitatus in case of need in the execution of the laws.

With the religious opinions of the Mormons, as long as they remained mere opinions, however
deplorable in themselves and revolting to the moral and religious sentiments of all Christendom,
I had no right to interfere. Actions alone, when in violation of the Constitution and laws
of the United States, become the legitimate subjects for the jurisdiction of the civil magistrate.
My instructions to Governor Cumming have therefore been framed in strict accordance with these
principles. At their date a hope was indulged that no necessity might exist for employing the
military in restoring and maintaining the authority of the law, but this hope has now vanished.
Governor Young has by proclamation declared his determination to maintain his power by force,
and has already committed acts of hostility against the United States. Unless he should retrace
his steps the Territory of Utah will be in a state of open rebellion. He has committed these
acts of hostility notwithstanding Major Van Vliet, an officer of the Army, sent to Utah by
the Commanding General to purchase provisions for the troops, had given him the strongest assurances
of the peaceful intentions of the Government, and that the troops would only be employed as
a posse comitatus when called on by the civil authority to aid in the execution of the laws.

There is reason to believe that Governor Young has long contemplated this result. He knows
that the continuance of his despotic power depends upon the exclusion of all settlers from
the Territory except those who will acknowledge his divine mission and implicitly obey his
will, and that an enlightened public opinion there would soon prostrate institutions at war
with the laws both of God and man. "He has therefore for several years, in order to maintain
his independence, been industriously employed in collecting and fabricating arms and munitions
of war and in disciplining the Mormons for military service." As superintendent of Indian affairs
he has had an opportunity of tampering with the Indian tribes and exciting their hostile feelings
against the United States. This, according to our information, he has accomplished in regard
to some of these tribes, while others have remained true to their allegiance and have communicated
his intrigues to our Indian agents. He has laid in a store of provisions for three years, which
in case of necessity, as he informed Major Van Vliet, he will conceal, "and then take to the
mountains and bid defiance to all the powers of the Government."

A great part of all this may be idle boasting, but yet no wise government will lightly estimate
the efforts which may be inspired by such frenzied fanaticism as exists among the Mormons in
Utah. This is the first rebellion which has existed in our Territories, and humanity itself
requires that we should put it down in such a manner that it shall be the last. To trifle with
it would be to encourage it and to render it formidable. We ought to go there with such an
imposing force as to convince these deluded people that resistance would be vain, and thus
spare the effusion of blood. We can in this manner best convince them that we are their friends,
not their enemies. In order to accomplish this object it will be necessary, according to the
estimate of the War Department, to raise four additional regiments; and this I earnestly recommend
to Congress. At the present moment of depression in the revenues of the country I am sorry
to be obliged to recommend such a measure; but I feel confident of the support of Congress,
cost what it may, in suppressing the insurrection and in restoring and maintaining the sovereignty
of the Constitution and laws over the Territory of Utah.

I recommend to Congress the establishment of a Territorial government over Arizona, incorporating
with it such portions of New Mexico as they may deem expedient. I need scarcely adduce arguments
in support of this recommendation. We are bound to protect the lives and the property of our
citizens inhabiting Arizona, and these are now without any efficient protection. Their present
number is already considerable, and is rapidly increasing, notwithstanding the disadvantages
under which they labor. Besides, the proposed Territory is believed to be rich in mineral and
agricultural resources, especially in silver and copper. The mails of the United States to
California are now carried over it throughout its whole extent, and this route is known to
be the nearest and believed to be the best to the Pacific.

Long experience has deeply convinced me that a strict construction of the powers granted to
Congress is the only true, as well as the only safe, theory of the Constitution. Whilst this
principle shall guide my public conduct, I consider it clear that under the war-making power
Congress may appropriate money for the Construction of a military road through the Territories
of the United States when this is absolutely necessary for the defense of any of the States
against foreign invasion. These high sovereign powers necessarily involve important and responsible
public duties, and among them there is none so sacred and so imperative as that of preserving
our soil from the invasion of a foreign enemy. The Constitution has therefore left nothing
on this point to construction, but expressly requires that "the United States shall protect
each of them [the States] against invasion." Now if a military road over our own Territories
be indispensably necessary to enable us to meet and repel the invader, it follows as a necessary
consequence not only that we possess the power, but it is our imperative duty to construct
such a road. It would be an absurdity to invest a government with the unlimited power to make
and conduct war and at the same time deny to it the only means of reaching and defeating the
enemy at the frontier. Without such a road it is quite evident we can not "protect" California
and our Pacific possessions "against invasion." We can not by any other means transport men
and munitions of war from the Atlantic States in sufficient time successfully to defend these
remote and distant portions of the Republic.

Experience has proved that the routes across the isthmus of Central America are at best but
a very uncertain and unreliable mode of communication. But even if this were not the case,
they would at once be closed against us in the event of war with a naval power so much stronger
than our own as to enable it to blockade the ports at either end of these routes. After all,
therefore, we can only rely upon a military road through our own Territories; and ever since
the origin of the Government Congress has been in the practice of appropriating money from
the public Treasury for the construction of such roads.

The difficulties and the expense of constructing a military railroad to connect our Atlantic
and Pacific States have been greatly exaggerated. The distance on the Arizona route, near the
thirty-second parallel of north latitude, between the western boundary of Texas, on the Rio
Grande, and the eastern boundary of California, on the Colorado, from the best explorations
now within our knowledge, does not exceed 470 miles, and the face of the country is in the
main favorable. For obvious reasons the Government ought not to undertake the work itself by
means of its own agents. This ought to be committed to other agencies, which Congress might
assist, either by grants of land or money, or by both, upon such terms and conditions as they
may deem most beneficial for the country. Provision might thus be made not only for the safe,
rapid, and economical transportation of troops and munitions of war, but also of the public
mails. The commercial interests of the whole country, both East and West, would be greatly
promoted by such a road, and, above all, it would be a powerful additional bond of union. And
although advantages of this kind, whether postal, commercial, or political, can not confer
constitutional power, yet they may furnish auxiliary arguments in favor of expediting a work
which, in my judgment, is clearly embraced within the war-making power.

For these reasons I commend to the friendly consideration of Congress the subject of the Pacific
Railroad, without finally committing myself to any particular route.

The report of the Secretary of the Treasury will furnish a detailed statement of the condition
of the public finances and of the respective branches of the public service devolved upon that
Department of the Government. By this report it appears that the amount of revenue received
from all sources into the Treasury during the fiscal year ending the 30th June, 1857, was $68,631,513.67,
which amount, with the balance of $19,901,325.45 remaining in the Treasury at the commencement
of the year, made an aggregate for the service of the year of $88,532,839.12.

The public expenditures for the fiscal year ending 30th June, 1857, amounted to $70,822,724.85,
of which $5,943,896.91 were applied to the redemption of the public debt, including interest
and premium, leaving in the Treasury at the commencement of the present fiscal year, on the
1st July, 1857, $17,710,114.27.

The receipts into the Treasury for the first quarter of the present fiscal year, commencing
1st July, 1857, were $20,929,819.81, and the estimated receipts of the remaining three quarters
to the 30th June, 1858, are $36,750,000, making, with the balance before stated, an aggregate
of $75,389,934.08 for the service of the present fiscal year.

The actual expenditures during the first quarter of the present fiscal year were $23,714,528.37,
of which $3,895,232.39 were applied to the redemption of the public debt, including interest
and premium. The probable expenditures of the remaining three quarters to 30th June, 1858,
are $51,248,530.04, including interest on the public debt, making an aggregate of $74,963,058.41,
leaving an estimated balance in the Treasury at the close of the present fiscal year of $426,875.67.

The amount of the public debt at the commencement of the present fiscal year was $29,060,386.90.

The amount redeemed since the 1st of July was $3,895,232.39, leaving a balance unredeemed at
this time of $25,165,154.51.

The amount of estimated expenditures for the remaining three quarters of the present fiscal
year will in all probability be increased from the causes set forth in the report of the Secretary.
His suggestion, therefore, that authority should be given to supply any temporary deficiency
by the issue of a limited amount of Treasury notes is approved, and I accordingly recommend
the passage of such a law.

As stated in the report of the Secretary, the tariff of March 3, 1857, has been in operation
for so short a period of time and under circumstances so unfavorable to a just development
of its results as a revenue measure that I should regard it as inexpedient, at least for the
present, to undertake its revision.

I transmit herewith the reports made to me by the Secretaries of War and of the Navy, of the
Interior, and of the Postmaster-General. They all contain valuable and important information
and suggestions, which I commend to the favorable consideration of Congress.

I have already recommended the raising of four additional regiments, and the report of the
Secretary of War presents strong reasons proving this increase of the Army under existing circumstances
to be indispensable.

I would call the special attention of Congress to the recommendation of the Secretary of the
Navy in favor of the construction of ten small war steamers of light draft. For some years
the Government has been obliged on many occasions to hire such steamers from individuals to
supply its pressing wants. At the present moment we have no armed vessel in the Navy which
can penetrate the rivers of China. We have but few which can enter any of the harbors south
of Norfolk, although many millions of foreign and domestic commerce annually pass in and out
of these harbors. Some of our most valuable interests and most vulnerable points are thus left
exposed. This class of vessels of light draft, great speed, and heavy guns would be formidable
in coast defense. The cost of their construction will not be great and they will require but
a comparatively small expenditure to keep them in commission. In time of peace they will prove
as effective as much larger vessels and more useful. One of them should be at every station
where we maintain a squadron, and three or four should be constantly employed on our Atlantic
and Pacific coasts. Economy, utility, and efficiency combine to recommend them as almost indispensable.
Ten of these small vessels would be of incalculable advantage to the naval service, and the
whole cost of their construction would not exceed $2,300,000, or $230,000 each.

The report of the Secretary of the Interior is worthy of grave consideration. It treats of
the numerous important and diversified branches of domestic administration intrusted to him
by law. Among these the most prominent are the public lands and our relations with the Indians.
Our system for the disposal of the public lands, originating with the fathers of the Republic,
has been improved as experience pointed the way, and gradually adapted to the growth and settlement
of our Western States and Territories. It has worked well in practice. Already thirteen States
and seven Territories have been carved out of these lands, and still more than a thousand millions
of acres remain unsold. What a boundless prospect this presents to our country of future prosperity
and power!

We have heretofore disposed of 363,862,464 acres of the public land. Whilst the public lands,
as a source of revenue, are of great importance, their importance is far greater as furnishing
homes for a hardy and independent race of honest and industrious citizens who desire to subdue
and cultivate the soil. They ought to be administered mainly with a view of promoting this
wise and benevolent policy. In appropriating them for any other purpose we ought to use even
greater economy than if they had been converted into money and the proceeds were already in
the public Treasury. To squander away this richest and noblest inheritance which any people
have ever enjoyed upon objects of doubtful constitutionality or expediency would be to violate
one of the most important trusts ever committed to any people. Whilst I do not deny to Congress
the power, when acting bona fide as a proprietor, to give away portions of them for the purpose
of increasing the value of the remainder, yet, considering the great temptation to abuse this
power, we can not be too cautious in its exercise. Actual settlers under existing laws are
protected against other purchasers at the public sales in their right of preemption to the
extent of a quarter section, or 160 acres, of land. The remainder may then be disposed of at
public or entered at private sale in unlimited quantities. Speculation has of late years prevailed
to a great extent in the public lands. The consequence has been that large portions of them
have become the property of individuals and companies, and thus the price is greatly enhanced
to those who desire to purchase for actual settlement. In order to limit the area of speculation
as much as possible, the extinction of the Indian title and the extension of the public surveys
ought only to keep pace with the tide of emigration.

If Congress should hereafter grant alternate sections to States or companies, as they have
done heretofore, I recommend that the intermediate sections retained by the Government should
be subject to preemption by actual settlers.

It ought ever to be our cardinal policy to reserve the public lands as much as may be for actual
settlers, and this at moderate prices. We shall thus not only best promote the prosperity of
the new States and Territories and the power of the Union, but shall secure homes for our posterity
for many generations.

The extension of our limits has brought within our jurisdiction many additional and populous
tribes of Indians, a large proportion of which are wild, untractable, and difficult to control.
Predatory and warlike in their disposition and habits, it is impossible altogether to restrain
them from committing aggressions on each other, as well as upon our frontier citizens and those
emigrating to our distant States and Territories. Hence expensive military expeditions are
frequently necessary to overawe and chastise the more lawless and hostile. The present system
of making them valuable presents to influence them to remain at peace has proved ineffectual.
It is believed to be the better policy to colonize them in suitable localities where they can
receive the rudiments of education and be gradually induced to adopt habits of industry. So
far as the experiment has been tried it has worked well in practice, and it will doubtless
prove to be less expensive than the present system.

The whole number of Indians within our territorial limits is believed to be, from the best
data in the Interior Department, about 325,000. The tribes of Cherokees, Choctaws, Chickasaws,
and Creeks settled in the Territory set apart for them west of Arkansas are rapidly advancing
in education and in all the arts of civilization and self-government and we may indulge the
agreeable anticipation that at no very distant day they will be incorporated into the Union
as one of the sovereign States.

It will be seen from the report of the Postmaster-General that the Post-Office Department still
continues to depend on the Treasury, as it has been compelled to do for several years past,
for an important portion of the means of sustaining and extending its operations. Their rapid
growth and expansion are shown by a decennial statement of the number of post-offices and the
length of post-roads, commencing with the year 1827. In that year there were 7,000 post-offices;
in 1837, 11,177; in 1847, 15,146, and in 1857 they number 26,586. In this year 1,725 post-offices
have been established and 704 discontinued, leaving a net increase of 1,021. The postmasters
of 368 offices are appointed by the President.

The length of post-roads in 1827 was 105,336 miles; in 1837,141,242 miles; in 1847, 153,818
miles, and in the year 1857 there are 242,601 miles of post-road, including 22,530 miles of
railroad on which the mails are transported.

The expenditures of the Department for the fiscal year ending on the 30th June, 1857, as adjusted
by the Auditor, amounted to $11,507,670. To defray these expenditures there was to the credit
of the Department on the 1st July, 1856, the sum of $789,599; the gross revenue of the year,
including the annual allowances for the transportation of free mail matter, produced $8,053,951,
and the remainder was supplied by the appropriation from the Treasury of $2,250,000 granted
by the act of Congress approved August 18, 1856, and by the appropriation of $666,883 made
by the act of March 3, 1857, leaving $252,763 to be carried to the credit of the Department
in the accounts of the current year. I commend to your consideration the report of the Department
in relation to the establishment of the overland mail route from the Mississippi River to San
Francisco, Cal. The route was selected with my full concurrence, as the one, in my judgment,
best calculated to attain the important objects contemplated by Congress.

The late disastrous monetary revulsion may have one good effect should it cause both the Government
and the people to return to the practice of a wise and judicious economy both in public and
private expenditures.

An overflowing Treasury has led to habits of prodigality and extravagance in our legislation.
It has induced Congress to make large appropriations to objects for which they never would
have provided had it been necessary to raise the amount of revenue required to meet them by
increased taxation or by loans. We are now compelled to pause in our career and to scrutinize
our expenditures with the utmost vigilance; and in performing this duty I pledge my cooperation
to the extent of my constitutional competency.

It ought to be observed at the same time that true public economy does not consist in withholding
the means necessary to accomplish important national objects intrusted to us by the Constitution,
and especially such as may be necessary for the common defense. In the present crisis of the
country it is our duty to confine our appropriations to objects of this character, unless in
cases where justice to individuals may demand a different course. In all cases care ought to
be taken that the money granted by Congress shall be faithfully and economically applied.

Under the Federal Constitution "every bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives
and the Senate shall, before it become a law," be approved and signed by the President; and
if not approved, "he shall return it with his objections to that House in which it shall have
originated." In order to perform this high and responsible duty, sufficient time must be allowed
the President to read and examine every bill presented to him for approval. Unless this be
afforded, the Constitution becomes a dead letter in this particular, and; even worse, it becomes
a means of deception. Our constituents, seeing the President's approval and signature attached
to each act of Congress, are induced to believe that he has actually performed his duty, when
in truth nothing is in many cases more unfounded.

From the practice of Congress such an examination of each bill as the Constitution requires
has been rendered impossible. The most important business of each session is generally crowded
into its last hours, and the alternative presented to the President is either to violate the
constitutional duty which he owes to the people and approve bills which for want of time it
is impossible he should have examined, or by his refusal to do this subject the country and
individuals to great loss and inconvenience.

Besides, a practice has grown up of late years to legislate in appropriation bills at the last
hours of the session on new and important subjects. This practice constrains the President
either to suffer measures to become laws which he does not approve or to incur the risk of
stopping the wheels of the Government by vetoing an appropriation bill. Formerly such bills
were confined to specific appropriations for carrying into effect existing laws and the well-established
policy of the country, and little time was then requited by the President for their examination.

For my own part, I have deliberately determined that I shall approve no bills which I have
not examined, and it will be a case of extreme and most urgent necessity which shall ever induce
me to depart from this rule. I therefore respectfully but earnestly recommend that the two
Houses would allow the President at least two days previous to the adjournment of each session
within which no new bill shall be presented to him for approval. Under the existing joint rule
one day is allowed, but this rule has been hitherto so constantly suspended in practice that
important bills continue to be presented to him up till the very last moments of the session.
In a large majority of cases no great public inconvenience can arise from the want of time
to examine their provisions, because the Constitution has declared that if a bill be presented
to the President within the last ten days of the session he is not required to return it, either
with an approval or with a veto, "in which case it shall not be a law." It may then lie over
and be taken up and passed at the next session. Great inconvenience would only be experienced
in regard to appropriation bills, but, fortunately, under the late excellent law allowing a
salary instead of a per diem to members of Congress the expense and inconvenience of a called
session will be greatly reduced.

I can not conclude without commending to your favorable consideration the interest of the people
of this District. Without a representative on the floor of Congress, they have for this very
reason peculiar claims upon our just regard. To this I know, from my long acquaintance with
them, they are eminently entitled.

***

State of the Union Address James Buchanan December 6, 1858

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives:

When we compare the condition of the country at the present day with what it was one year ago
at the meeting of Congress, we have much reason for gratitude to that Almighty Providence which
has never failed to interpose for our relief at the most critical periods of our history. One
year ago the sectional strife between the North and the South on the dangerous subject of slavery
had again become so intense as to threaten the peace and perpetuity of the Confederacy. The
application for the admission of Kansas as a State into the Union fostered this unhappy agitation
and brought the whole subject once more before Congress. It was the desire of every patriot
that such measures of legislation might be adopted as would remove the excitement from the
States and confine it to the Territory where it legitimately belonged. Much has been done,
I am happy to say, toward the accomplishment of this object during the last session of Congress.
The Supreme Court of the United States had previously decided that all American citizens have
an equal right to take into the Territories whatever is held as property under the laws of
any of the States, and to hold such property there under the guardianship of the Federal Constitution
so long as the Territorial condition shall remain.

This is now a well-established position, and the proceedings of the last session were alone
wanting to give it practical effect. The principle has been recognized in some form or other
by an almost unanimous vote of both Houses of Congress that a Territory has a right to come
into the Union either as a free or a slave State, according to the will of a majority of its
people. The just equality of all the States has thus been vindicated and a fruitful source
of dangerous dissension among them has been removed.

Whilst such has been the beneficial tendency of your legislative proceedings outside of Kansas,
their influence has nowhere been so happy as within that Territory itself. Left to manage and
control its own affairs in its own way, without the pressure of external influence, the revolutionary
Topeka organization and all resistance to the Territorial government established by Congress
have been finally abandoned. As a natural consequence that fine Territory now appears to be
tranquil and prosperous and is attracting increasing thousands of immigrants to make it their
happy home.

The past unfortunate experience of Kansas has enforced the lesson, so often already taught,
that resistance to lawful authority under our form of government can not fail in the end to
prove disastrous to its authors. Had the people of the Territory yielded obedience to the laws
enacted by their legislature, it would at the present moment have contained a large additional
population of industrious and enterprising citizens, who have been deterred from entering its
borders by the existence of civil strife and organized rebellion.

It was the resistance to rightful authority and the persevering attempts to establish a revolutionary
government under the Topeka constitution which caused the people of Kansas to commit the grave
error of refusing to vote for delegates to the convention to frame a constitution under a law
not denied to be fair and just in its provisions. This refusal to vote has been the prolific
source of all the evils which have followed, In their hostility to the Territorial government
they disregarded the principle, absolutely essential to the working of our form of government,
that a majority of those who vote, not the majority who may remain at home, from whatever cause,
must decide the result of an election. For this reason, seeking to take advantage of their
own error, they denied the authority of the convention thus elected to frame a constitution.

The convention, notwithstanding, proceeded to adopt a constitution unexceptionable in its general
features, and providing for the submission of the slavery question to a vote of the people,
which, in my opinion, they were bound to do under the Kansas and Nebraska act. This was the
all-important question which had alone convulsed the Territory; and yet the opponents of the
lawful government, persisting in their first error, refrained from exercising their right to
vote, and preferred that slavery should continue rather than surrender their revolutionary
Topeka organization.

A wiser and better spirit seemed to prevail before the first Monday of January last, when an
election was held under the constitution. A majority of the people then voted for a governor
and other State officers, for a Member of Congress and members of the State legislature. This
election was warmly contested by the two political parties in Kansas, and a greater vote was
polled than at any previous election. A large majority of the members of the legislature elect
belonged to that party which had previously refused to vote. The antislavery party were thus
placed in the ascendant, and the political power of the State was in their own hands. Had Congress
admitted Kansas into the Union under the Lecompton constitution, the legislature might at its
very first session have submitted the question to a vote of the people whether they would or
would not have a convention to amend their constitution, either on the slavery or any other
question, and have adopted all necessary means for giving speedy effect to the will of the
majority. Thus the Kansas question would have been immediately and finally settled.

Under these circumstances I submitted to Congress the constitution thus framed, with all the
officers already elected necessary to put the State government into operation, accompanied
by a strong recommendation in favor of the admission of Kansas as a State. In the course of
my long public life I have never performed any official act which in the retrospect has afforded
me more heartfelt satisfaction. Its admission could have inflicted no possible injury on any
human being, whilst it would within a brief period have restored peace to Kansas and harmony
to the Union. In that event the slavery question would ere this have been finally settled according
to the legally expressed will of a majority of the voters, and popular sovereignty would thus
have been vindicated in a constitutional manner.

With my deep convictions of duty I could have pursued no other course. It is true that as an
individual I had expressed an opinion, both before and during the session of the convention,
in favor of submitting the remaining clauses of the constitution, as well as that concerning
slavery, to the people. But, acting in an official character, neither myself nor any human
authority had the power to rejudge the proceedings of the convention and declare the constitution
which it had framed to be a nullity. It would equally have violated the great principle of
popular sovereignty, at the foundation of our institutions, to deprive the people of the power,
if they thought proper to exercise it, of confiding to delegates elected by themselves the
trust of framing a constitution without requiring them to subject their constituents to the
trouble, expense, and delay of a second election. It would have been in opposition to many
precedents in our history, commencing in the very best age of the Republic, of the admission
of Territories as States into the Union without a previous vote of the people approving their
constitution.

It is to be lamented that a question so insignificant when viewed in its practical effects
on the people of Kansas, whether decided one way or the other, should have kindled such a flame
of excitement throughout the country. This reflection may prove to be a lesson of wisdom and
of warning for our future guidance. Practically considered, the question is simply whether
the people of that Territory should first come into the Union and then change any provision
in their constitution not agreeable to themselves, or accomplish the very same object by remaining
out of the Union and framing another constitution in accordance with their will. In either
case the result would be precisely the same. The only difference, in point of fact, is that
the object would have been much sooner attained and the pacification of Kansas more speedily
effected had it been admitted as a State during the last session of Congress.

My recommendation, however, for the immediate admission of Kansas failed to meet the approbation
of Congress. They deemed it wiser to adopt a different measure for the settlement of the question.
For my own part, I should have been willing to yield my assent to almost any constitutional
measure to accomplish this object. I therefore cordially acquiesced in what has been called
the English compromise and approved the "act for the admission of the State of Kansas into
the Union" upon the terms therein prescribed.

Under the ordinance which accompanied the Lecompton constitution the people of Kansas had claimed
double the quantity of public lands for the support of common schools which had ever been previously
granted to any State upon entering the Union, and also the alternate sections of land for 12
miles on each side of two railroads proposed to be constructed from the northern to the southern
boundary and from the eastern to the western boundary of the State. Congress, deeming these
claims unreasonable, provided by the act of May 4, 1858, to which I have just referred, for
the admission of the State on an equal footing with the original States, but "upon the fundamental
condition precedent" that a majority of the people thereof, at an election to be held for that
purpose, should, in place of the very large grants of public lands which they had demanded
under the ordinance, accept such grants as had been made to Minnesota and other new States.
Under this act, should a majority reject the proposition offered them, "it shall be deemed
and held that the people of Kansas do not desire admission into the Union with said constitution
under the conditions set forth in said proposition." In that event the act authorizes the people
of the Territory to elect delegates to form a constitution and State government for themselves
"whenever, and not before, it is ascertained by a census, duly and legally taken, that the
population of said Territory equals or exceeds the ratio of representation required for a member
of the House of Representatives of the Congress of the United States." The delegates thus assembled
"shall first determine by a vote whether it is the wish of the people of the proposed State
to be admitted into the Union at that time, and, if so, shall proceed to form a constitution
and take all necessary steps for the establishment of a State government in conformity with
the Federal Constitution." After this constitution shall have been formed, Congress, carrying
out the principles of popular sovereignty and nonintervention, have left "the mode and manner
of its approval or ratification by the people of the proposed State" to be "prescribed by law,"
and they "shall then be admitted into the Union as a State under such constitution, thus fairly
and legally made, with or without slavery, as said constitution may prescribe."

An election was held throughout Kansas, in pursuance of the provisions of this act, on the
2d day of August last, and it resulted in the rejection by a large majority of the proposition
submitted to the people by Congress. This being the case, they are now authorized to form another
constitution, preparatory to admission into the Union, but not until their number, as ascertained
by a census, shall equal or exceed the ratio required to elect a member to the House of Representatives.

It is not probable, in the present state of the case, that a third constitution can be lawfully
framed and presented to Congress by Kansas before its population shall have reached the designated
number. Nor is it to be presumed that after their sad experience in resisting the Territorial
laws they will attempt to adopt a constitution in express violation of the provisions of an
act of Congress. During the session of 1856 much of the time of Congress was occupied on the
question of admitting Kansas under the Topeka constitution. Again, nearly the whole of the
last session was devoted to the question of its admission under the Lecompton constitution.
Surely it is not unreasonable to require the people of Kansas to wait before making a third
attempt until the number of their inhabitants shall amount to 93,420. During this brief period
the harmony of the States as well as the great business interests of the country demand that
the people of the Union shall not for a third time be convulsed by another agitation on the
Kansas question. By waiting for a short time and acting in obedience to law Kansas will glide
into the Union without the slightest impediment.

This excellent provision, which Congress have applied to Kansas, ought to be extended and rendered
applicable to all Territories which may hereafter seek admission into the Union.

Whilst Congress possess the undoubted power of admitting a new State into the Union, however
small may be the number of its inhabitants, yet this power ought not, in my opinion, to be
exercised before the population shall amount to the ratio required by the act for the admission
of Kansas. Had this been previously the rule, the country would have escaped all the evils
and misfortunes to which it has been exposed by the Kansas question.

Of course it would be unjust to give this rule a retrospective application, and exclude a State
which, acting upon the past practice of the Government, has already formed its constitution,
elected its legislature and other officers, and is now prepared to enter the Union. The rule
ought to be adopted, whether we consider its bearing on the people of the Territories or upon
the people of the existing States. Many of the serious dissentions which have prevailed in
Congress and throughout the country would have been avoided had this rule been established
at an earlier period of the Government.

Immediately upon the formation of a new Territory people from different States and from foreign
countries rush into it for the laudable purpose of improving their condition. Their first duty
to themselves is to open and cultivate farms, to construct roads, to establish schools, to
erect places of religious worship, and to devote their energies generally to reclaim the wilderness
and to lay the foundations of a flourishing and prosperous commonwealth. If in this incipient
condition, with a population of a few thousand, they should prematurely enter the Union, they
are oppressed by the burden of State taxation, and the means necessary for the improvement
of the Territory and the advancement of their own interests are thus diverted to very different
purposes.

The Federal Government has ever been a liberal parent to the Territories and a generous contributor
to the useful enterprises of the early settlers. It has paid the expenses of their governments
and legislative assemblies out of the common Treasury, and thus relieved them from a heavy
charge. Under these circumstances nothing can be better calculated to retard their material
progress than to divert them from their useful employments by prematurely exciting angry political
contests among themselves for the benefit of aspiring leaders. It is surely no hardship for
embryo governors, Senators, and Members of Congress to wait until the number of inhabitants
shall equal those of a single Congressional district. They surely ought not to be permitted
to rush into the Union with a population less than one-half of several of the large counties
in the interior of some of the States. This was the condition of Kansas when it made application
to be admitted under the Topeka constitution. Besides, it requires some time to render the
mass of a population collected in a new Territory at all homogeneous and to unite them on anything
like a fixed policy. Establish the rule, and all will look forward to it and govern themselves
accordingly. But justice to the people of the several States requires that this rule should
be established by Congress. Each State is entitled to two Senators and at least one Representative
in Congress. Should the people of the States fail to elect a Vice-President, the power devolves
upon the Senate to select this officer from the two highest candidates on the list. In case
of the death of the President, the Vice-President thus elected by the Senate becomes President
of the United States. On all questions of legislation the Senators from the smallest States
of the Union have an equal vote with those from the largest. The same may be said in regard
to the ratification of treaties and of Executive appointments. All this has worked admirably
in practice, whilst it conforms in principle with the character of a Government instituted
by sovereign States. I presume no American citizen would desire the slightest change in the
arrangement. Still, is it not unjust and unequal to the existing States to invest some 40,000
or 50,000 people collected in a Territory with the attributes of sovereignty and place them
on an equal footing with Virginia and New York in the Senate of the United States?

For these reasons I earnestly recommend the passage of a general act which shall provide that,
upon the application of a Territorial legislature declaring their belief that the Territory
contains a number of inhabitants which, if in a State, would entitle them to elect a Member
of Congress, it shall be the duty of the President to cause a census of the inhabitants to
be taken, and if found sufficient then by the terms of this act to authorize them to proceed
"in their own way" to frame a State constitution preparatory to admission into the Union. I
also recommend that an appropriation may be made to enable the President to take a census of
the people of Kansas.

