'Do you know,' said Clarence, on the second evening, when his guest had gone to dress for dinner,
'I am very sorry for that poor lad. It is only six weeks since he lost his mother, and he has
not a soul to care for him, either here or where he is going.  I had fancied the family were
under a cloud, but I find it was only that old Frith quarrelled with the father for taking
Holy Orders instead of going into our house.  Probably there was some imprudence; for the poor
man died a curate and left no provision for his family.  The only help the old man would give
was to take the boy into the office at Liverpool, stopping his education just as he was old
enough to care about it.  There were a delicate mother and two sisters then, but they are all
gone now; scarlet fever carried off the daughters, and Mrs. Frith never was well again.  He
seems to have spent his time in waiting on her when off duty, and to have made no friends except
one or two contemporaries of hers; and his only belongings are old Frith and Mrs. Stevens,
who are packing him off to Canton without caring a rap what becomes of him.  I know what Mrs.
Stevens is at; she comes up to town much oftener now, and has got her husband's nephew into
the office, and is trying to get everything for him; and that's the reason she wants to keep
up the old feud, and send this poor Lawrence off to the ends of the earth.'

'Can't you do anything for him?' asked Emily.  'I thought Mr. Frith did attend to you.'

Clarence laughed.  'I know that Mrs. Stevens hates me like poison; but that is the only reason
I have for supposing I might have any influence.'

'And can't you speak to Mr. Castleford?'

'Set him to interfere about old Frith's relations!  He would know better!  Besides, the fellow
is too old to get into any other line-- four-and-twenty he says, though he does not look it;
and he is as innocent as a baby, indifferent just now to what becomes of him, or whither he
goes; it is all the same to him, he says; there is no one to care for him anywhere, and I think
he is best pleased to go where it is all new.  And there, you see, the poor lad will be left
to drift to destruction--mother's darling that he has been--just for want of some human being
to care about him, and hinder his getting heartless and reckless!'

Clarence's voice trembled, and Emily had tears in her eyes as she asked if absolutely nothing
could be done for him.  Clarence meant to write to Mr. Castleford, who would no doubt beg the
chaplain at the station to show the young man some kindness; also, perhaps, to the resident
partner, whom Clarence had looked at once over his desk, but in his rawest and most depressed
days.  The only clerk out there, whom he knew, would, he thought, be no element of safety,
and would not like the youth the better either for bringing his recommendation or bearing old
Frith's name.

We were considerably softened towards our guest, though the next time Emily came on him he
was standing in the hall, transfixed in contemplation of her greatest achievement in brass-rubbing,
a severe and sable knight with the most curly of nostrils, the stiffest and straightest of
mouths, hair straight on his brows, pointed toes joined together below, and fingers touching
over his breast.  There he hung in triumph just within the front door, fluttering and swaying
a little on his pins whenever a draught came in; and there stood Lawrence Frith, freshly aware
of him, and unable to repress the exclamation, 'I say! isn't he a guy?'

'Sir Guy de Warrenne,' began Emily composedly; 'don't you see his coat of arms? "chequy argent
and azure."'

'Does your brother keep him there to scare away the tramps?'

Emily's countenance was a study.

The subject of brasses was unfolded to Lawrence Frith, and before the end of the week he had
spent an entire day on his hands and knees, scrubbing away with the waxy black compound at
a figure in the Cathedral--the office-work, as we declared, which Clarence gave him to do.
In fact he became so thoroughly infected that it was a pity that he was going where there would
be no exercise in ecclesiology--rather the reverse.  Embarrassment on his side, and hostility
on ours, may be said to have vanished under the influence of Sir Guy de Warrenne's austere
countenance.  The youth seemed to regard 'Mr. Winslow' in the light of a father, and to accept
us as kindly beings.  He ceased to contort his limbs in our awful presence, looked at me like
as an ordinary person, and even ventured on giving me an arm.  He listened with unfeigned pleasure
to our music, perilled his neck on St. Vincent's rocks in search of plants, and by and by took
to hanging back with Emily, while Clarence walked on with me, to talk to her out of his full
heart about his mother and sisters.

Three weeks elapsed before the Hoang-ho was ready to sail, and by that time Lawrence knew that
there were some who would rejoice in his success, or grieve if things went ill with him.  Clarence
and I had promised him long home letters, and impressed on him that we should welcome his intelligence
of himself.  For verily he had made his way into our hearts, as a thoroughly good-hearted,
affectionate being, yearning for something to cling to; intelligent and refined, though his
recent cultivation had been restricted, soundly principled, and trained in religious feelings
and habits, but so utterly inexperienced that there was no guessing how it might be with him
when cast adrift, with no object save his own maintenance, and no one to take an interest in him.

Clarence talked to him paternally, and took him to second-hand shops to provide a cheap library
of substantial reading, engaging to cater for him for the future, not omitting Dickens; and
Emily worked at providing him with the small conveniences and comforts for the voyage that
called for a woman's hand.  He was so grateful that it was like fitting out a dear friend or
younger brother.

'I wonder,' said Clarence, as he walked by my chair on one of the last days, 'whether it was
altogether wise to have this young Frith here so much, though it could hardly have been helped.'

To which I rejoined that it could hardly have displeased the uncle, and that if it did, the
youth's welfare was worth annoying him for.

'I meant something nearer home,' said Clarence, and proceeded to ask if I did not think Lawrence
Frith a good deal smitten with Emily.

To me it seemed an idea not worth consideration.  Any youth, especially one who had lived so
secluded a life, would naturally be taken by the first pleasing young woman who came in his
way, and took a kindly interest in him; but I did not think Emily very susceptible, being entirely
wrapped up in home and parish matters; and I reminded Clarence that she had not been loverless.
She had rejected the Curate of Hillside; and we all saw, though she did not, that only her
evident indifference kept Sir George Eastwood's second son from making further advances.

Clarence was not convinced. Believe it or not, you had better not see me now Miss. Can I call
a doctor? - I do not want to you to be alone.

I will make arrangements with Dolores and I'll let you know.

How much will this cost Doctor? - This is very serious, this is a
mountain dog bit. - Bitten by the dogs!

Adela repeated.

Ay! If they called the doctor this must be very serious.

Is the skin
torn?! Probably.

Those dogs are like beasts. What horror My God! Mateu, said loudly, looking by him. In fact,
very strange things started out for Elizabeth, and the family she lived with, namely Tinaja.
The fate of the former nurse of his young friend, who was now banned
from the house, forced to move, bitten by ferocious dogs, horrified
him.

Elizabeth could not hide from Leonardo, nor his intense dislike or their
deep emotions. What do you have? What has given this you? he asked.
I do not know, "she said. I feel bad. I thought, "continued Leonard, you
were infected with the black wound. Do not be black. I bet there are more
wounds? Did you get a few scratches?

A nurse always thinks likes this.

Mom must not think this is outrageous.

Nor they never give full credit to what they say.

They exaggerate everything and add lies. - What, Adela? Rosa called from
his seat listening to her call her doctor.

The nurse was gone in a flash, and before answering his mother Adela
there with the Mayoral horse, followed by his two beautiful mastiff.

They were to account for the voice of Campanula all that had happened. There were tall, lean animal,
more than tough, very dark face, black-eyed, curly hair and beards,
whose large whiskers that covered both sides of the face until it
touched the corners of the small mouth.



However, Clarence had been the recipient of all the poor lad's fervent feelings for Miss Winslow,
how she had been a new revelation to his desolate spirit, and was to be the guiding star of
his life, etc., etc., all from the bottom of his heart, though he durst not dream of requital,
and was to live, not on hope, but on memory of the angelic kindness of these three weeks.

It was impossible not to be touched, though we strove to be worldly wise old bachelors, and
assured one another that the best and most probable thing that could happen to Lawrence Frith
would be to have his dream blown away by the Atlantic breezes, and be left open to the charms
of some Chinese merchant's daughter.

After such a rebuff as Martyn had experienced at Beachharbour, he no longer haunted its neighbourhood,
but devoted the long vacation of the ensuing year to a walking tour in Germany, with one or
two congenial spirits, who shared his delight in scenery, pictures, and architecture.

By and by he wrote to Clarence from Baden Baden -

'Whom do you think I should find here but Griffith and his bird?  I first spotted the old fellow
smoking under a tree in the Grand Platz, but he looked so seedy and altered altogether that
I was not sure enough of him to speak, especially as he showed no signs of knowing me.  (He
says it was my whiskers that stumped him.)  I made inquiries and found that they figured as
"Sir Peacock and lady," but they were entered all right in the book.  He is taking the "Kur"--he
looks as if he wanted it--and she is taking rouge et noir.  I saw her at the salon, with her
neck grown as long as her namesake's, but not as pretty, claws to match, thin and painted,
as if the ruling passion was consuming her.  Poor old Griff! he was glad enough to see me,
but he is wofully shaky, and nearly came to tears when he asked after Ted and all at home.
They had an upset of their carriage in Vienna last winter, and he got some twist, or other
damage, which he thought nothing of, but it has never righted itself; I am sure he is very
ill, and ought to be looked after.  He has had only foreign doctoring, and you know he never
was strong in languages.  I heard of the medico here inquiring what precise symptom der Englander
meant by being "down in zie mout!"  Poor Griff is that, whatever else he is, and Selina does
not see it, nor anything else but her rouge et noir table.  I am afraid he plays too, when
he is up to it, but he can't stand much of the stuffiness of the place, and he respects my
innocence, poor old beggar; so he has kept out of it, since we have been here.  He seems glad
to have me to look after him, but afraid to let me stay, for fear of my falling a victim to
the place.  I can't well tell him that there is a perpetual warning to youth in the persons
of himself and his Peacock.  His mind might be vastly relieved if I were out of it, but scarcely
his body; and I shall not leave him till I hear from home. Thomson says I am right.  I should
like to bring the poor old man home for advice, especially if my lady could be left behind,
and by all appearances she would not object.  Could not you come, or mamma? Speak to papa about
it.  It is all so disgusting that I really could not write to him.  It is enough to break one's
heart to see Griff when he hears about home, and Edward, and Emily.  I told him how famously
you were getting on, and he said, "It has been all up, up with him, all down, down with me,"
and then he wanted me to fix my day for leaving Baden, as if it were a sink of infection. 
I fancy he thinks me a mere infant still, for he won't heed a word of advice about taking care
of himself and WILL do the most foolish things imaginable for a man in his state, though I
can't make out what is the matter with him.  I tried both French and Latin with his doctor,
equally in vain.'

There was a great consultation over this letter.  Our parents would fain have gone at once
to Baden, but my father was far from well; in fact, it was the beginning of the break-up of
his constitution.  He had been ageing ever since his disappointment in Griffith, and though
he had so enjoyed his jaunt with my mother that he had seemed revived for the time, he had
been visibly failing ever since the winter, and my mother durst not leave him.  Indeed she
was only too well aware that her presence was apt to inspire Selina with the spirit of contradiction,
and that Clarence would have a better chance alone. Then, suddenly turning to Moya, in short,
imperious tone asked about the mayor. - When I was coming from the
pasture, "said Moya, he was with people cutting sugar cane in the
new tomb.

It should not take more because, as we do not have to cut grass steps Guinea eat horses, because
there cojollo people released earlier. Look, here come the latest rods carts to test the car
pa ... See Yonder shepherd his mule, and further entoavía on guardarraya other hand, now I see
Don Liborio. Sugar Cane refers to my dogs and I would not say whether pueo go alone or with people.
He comes to riding. CHAPTER V 9.

I am clean, and no offense ... 10. Since the disease was found against
me, so I had his foe.

     11.

     
        She put my feet in stocks, has saved all my ways.
        

     JOB, XXXIV while at one end of the porch and set the scene took place,
the opposite occurred in another very different.
        

         Women were lively and interesting group Ilincheta with two smaller
Gamboa, surrounded by a semicircle of knights Galante or admired.

All rise.

Women supported their backs on the railing, and Gentlemen Ilincheta
Rosa awaiting lips in speech short and graceful graphs, described
the small incidents of travel, their bad driving, and his own impressions.

Leonardo smiled, clapped Cocco, Mateu doctor was like pirouettes and
jealousy Meneses remained serious, as he rose from his beautiful girlfriend.

Adela and Isabella, in accordance with their hands, listened and said
nothing. Suddenly, someone pulled the skirt of Adela was the porch.

She turned her face alive and saw a handsome black, dressed very different from that of other
slaves on the farm. - What do you want - Questions Adela pretty scared. " - Your Cult excuse
me, girl. She came by your doctor. (I could not see through the darkness and skirts the ladies interposed.)
- And who are you? - I'm the nurse, the housekeeper's mercy. - Assistance! Adela repeated surprised.
- Yes, girl, nurse Maria Regla.

And his mercy is not to Adele? - Dresses same shoes. - Ah! crying slave girl gently squeezing feet,
because he could not elsewhere in your body. My heart said.

Yesterday I saw through the window of sugar mill infirmary.

I was questioned what if the girl my girl Carmen and her grace.

Much has changed! How nice it was my daughter, Lady! - Heart told me
so cute, my daughter, Adela imitated.

If I am your
daughter, if I want so much, why do not you come see me?

I warned you to Dolores.
Why not come to speak?

I got very angry. - Ay! shout black.

Do not tell me this girl is killing me ... His beneficence was not
alone. - No. He went with his mother, Carmen, his wife and sister
Moya Pancha.

What
was so special? - Somewhat before my eyes. - Speak, explain. - I
can not now, my child. - What!

You do not think my mother asked his blessing? - Yes, girl.

I want the soul, came ... From the point reached by Mrs. de La Habana,
run and throw myself at your feet ... - Why did not it?

Who prevented you? - Miss it. - Mom?

No, it can be. You're wrong, dreaming, Maria de Regla. - I do not
mistake, no sleep, girl Adela.



It was not, however, Martyn who met her, but his friend Thomson, with the tidings that the
suffering had become so severe as to prevent Martyn from leaving Baden, not only on his brother's
account, but because Lady Peacock had at last taken alarm, and was so uncontrollable in her
distress that he was needed to keep her out of the sickroom, where her presence, poor thing,
only did mischief.

She evidently had a certain affection for her husband; and it was the more piteous that in
his present state he only regarded her as the tempter who had ruined his life--his false Duessa,
who had led him away from Una.  On one unhappy evening he had been almost maddened by her insisting
on arguing with him; he called her a hag, declared she had been the death of his children,
the death of that dear one--could she not let him alone now she had been the death of himself?

When Martyn took her away, she wept bitterly, and told enough to make the misery of their life
apparent, when the gaiety was over, and regrets and recriminations set in.

However, there came a calmer interval, when the suffering passed off, but in the manner which
made the German doctor intimate that hope was over.  Would life last till his mother came?

His brothers had striven from the first to awaken thoughts of higher things, and turn remorse
into repentance; but every attempt resulted in strange, sad wanderings about Esau, the birthright,
and the blessing.  Indeed, these might not have been entirely wanderings, for once he said,
'It is better this way, Bill.  You don't know what you wish in trying to bring me round.  Don't
be hard on me.  She drove me to it.  It is all right now.  The Jews will be disappointed.'

For even at the crisis in London, he had concealed that he had raised money on post obits,
so that, had he outlived my father, Chantry House would have been lost.  Lady Peacock's fortune
had been undermined when she married him; extravagance and gambling had made short work of
the rest.

Why should I speak of such things here, except to mourn over our much-loved brother, with all
his fine qualities and powers wasted and overthrown?  He clung to Clarence's affection, and
submitted to prayers and psalms, but without response.  He showed tender recollection of us
all, but scarcely durst think of his father, and hardly appeared to wish to see his mother.
Clarence's object soon came to be to obtain forgiveness for the wife, since bitterness against
her seemed the great obstacle to seeking pardon, peace, or hope; but each attempt only produced
such bitterness against her, and such regrets and mourning for Ellen, as fearfully shook the
failing frame, while he moaned forth complaints of the blandishments and raillery with which
his temptress had beguiled him.  Clarence tried in vain to turn away this idea, but nothing
had any effect till he bethought himself of Ellen's message, that she knew even this fatal
act had been prompted by generosity of spirit.  There was truth enough in it to touch Griff,
but only so far as to cry, 'What might I not have been with her?'  Still, there was no real
softening till my mother came.  He knew her at once, and all the old childish relations were
renewed between them.  There was little time left now, but he was wholly hers.  Even Clarence
was almost set aside, save where strength was needed, and the mother seemed to have equal control
of spirit and body.  It was she, who, scarcely aware of what had gone before, caused him to
admit Selina.

'Tell her not to talk,' he said.  'But we have each much to forgive one another.'

She came in, awed and silent, and he let her kiss him, sit near at hand, and wait on my mother,
whose coming had, as it were, insensibly taken the bitterness away and made him as a little
child in her hands.  He could follow prayers in which she led him, as he could not, or did
not seem to do, with any one else, for he was never conscious of the presence of the clergyman
whom Thomson hunted up and brought, and who prayed aloud with Martyn while the physical agony
claimed both my mother and Clarence.

Once Griff looked about him and called out for our father, then recollecting, muttered, 'No--the
birthright gone--no blessing.'

It grieved us much, it grieves me now, that this was his last distinct utterance.  He LOOKED
as if the comforting replies and the appeals to the Source of all redemption did awaken a response,
but he never spoke articulately again; and only thirty-six hours after my mother's arrival,
all was over.

Poor Selina went into passions of hysterics and transports of grief, needing all the firmness
of so resolute a woman as my mother to deal with her.  She was wild in self-accusation, and
became so ill that the care of her was a not unwholesome occupation for my mother, who was
one of those with whom sorrow has little immediate outlet, and is therefore the more enduring.

She would not bring our brother's coffin home, thinking the agitation would be hurtful to my
father, and anxious to get back to him as soon as possible.  So Griff was buried at Baden,
and from time to time some of us have visited his grave.  Of course she proposed Selina's return
to Chantry House with her; but Mr. Clarkson, the brother, had come out to the funeral, and
took his sister home with him, certainly much to our relief, though all the sad party at Baden
had drawn much nearer together in these latter days.

CHAPTER XXXIX--A PURPOSE

   'It then draws near the season
Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.'

Hamlet.

We had really lost our Griffith long before--our bright, generous, warm-hearted, promising
Griff, the brilliance of our home; but his actual death made the first breach in a hitherto
unbroken family, and was a new and strange shock.  It made my father absolutely an old man;
and it also changed Martyn.  His first contact with responsibility, suffering, and death had
demolished the light- hearted boyishness which had lasted in the youngest of the family through
all his high aspirations.  Till his return to Oxford, his chief solace was in getting some
one of us alone, going through all the scenes at Baden, discussing his new impressions of the
trials and perplexities of life, and seeking out passages in the books that were becoming our
oracles.  What he had admired externally before, he was grasping from within; nor can I describe
what the Lyra Apostolica, and the two first volumes of Parochial Sermons preached at Littlemore,
became to us.

Mr. Clarkson had been rather dry with my brothers at Baden, evidently considering that poor
Griffith had been as fatal to his sister as we thought Selina had been to our brother.  It
was hardly just, for there had been much more to spoil in him than in her; and though she would
hardly have trod a much higher path, there is no saying what he might have been but for her.

Griffith had said nothing about providing for her, not having forgiven her till he was past
recollecting the need, but her brother had intimated that something was due from the family,
and Clarence had assented--not, indeed, as to her deserts, poor woman, but her claims and her
needs--well knowing that my father would never suffer Griff's widow to be in want.

He judged rightly.  My father was nervously anxious to arrange for giving her 500 pounds a
year, in the manner most likely to prevent her from making away with it, and leaving herself
destitute.  But there had already been heavy pulls on his funded property, and ways and means
had to be considered, making Clarence realise that he had become the heir.  Somehow, there
still remained, especially with my mother and himself, a sense of his being a failure, and
an inferior substitute, although my father had long come to lean upon him, as never had been
the case with our poor Griff.

The first idea of raising the amount required was by selling an outlying bit of the estate
near the Wattlesea Station, for which an enterprising builder was making offers, either to
purchase or take on a building lease.  My father had received several letters on the subject,
and only hesitated from a feeling against breaking up the estate, especially if this were part
of the original Chantry House property, and not a more recent acquisition of the Winslows.
Moreover, he would do nothing without Clarence's participation.

The title-deeds were not in the house, for my father had had too much of the law to meddle
more than he could help with his own affairs, and had left them in the hands of the family
solicitor at Bristol, where Clarence was to go and look over them.  He rejoiced in the opportunity
of being able to see whether anything would throw light on the story of the mullion chamber;
and the certainty that the Wattlesea property had never been part of the old endowment of the
Chantry did not seem nearly so interesting as a packet of yellow letters tied with faded red
tape.  Mr. Ryder made no difficulty in entrusting these to him, and we read them by our midnight
lamp.

Clarence had seen poor Margaret's will, bequeathing her entire property to her husband's son,
Philip Winslow, and had noted the date, 1705; also the copy of the decision in the Court of
Probate that there was no sufficient evidence of entail on the Fordyce family to bar her power
of disposing of it.  We eagerly opened the letters, but found them disappointing, as they were
mostly offerings of 'Felicitations' to Philip Winslow on having established his 'Just Claim,'
and 'refuted the malicious Accusations of Calumny.'  They only served to prove the fact that
he had been accused of something, and likewise that he had powerful friends, and was thought
worth being treated with adulation, according to the fashion of his day. Perhaps it was hardly
to be expected that he should have preserved evidence against himself, but it was baffling
to sift so little out of such a mass of correspondence.  If we could have had access to the
Fordyce papers, no doubt they would have given the other phase of the transaction, but they
were unattainable.  The only public record that Clarence could discover was much abbreviated,
and though there was some allusion to intimidation, the decision seemed to have been fixed
by the non-existence of any entail.

Christmas was drawing on, and gathering together what was left of us.  Though Griffith had
spent only one Christmas at home in nine years, it was wonderful how few we seemed, even when
Martyn returned.  My father liked to have us about him, and even spoke of Clarence's giving
up his post as manager at Bristol, and living entirely at home to attend to the estate; but
my mother did not encourage the idea.  She could not quite bear to accept any one in Griff's
place, and rightly thought there was not occupation enough to justify bringing Clarence home.
I was competent to assist my father through all the landlord's business that came to him within
doors, and Emily had ridden and walked about enough with him to be an efficient inspector of
crops and repairs, besides that Clarence himself was within reach.

'Indeed,' he said to me, 'I cannot loose my hold on Frith and Castleford till I see my way
into the future.'

I did not know what he intended either then or when he gave his voice against dismembering
the property by selling the Wattlesea estate, but arranged for raising Selina's income otherwise,
persuading my father to let him undertake the building of the required cottages out of his
own resources, on principles much more wholesome than were likely to be employed by the speculator.
Nor did grasp what was in his mind when he made me look out my 'ghost journal,' as we called
my record of each apparition reported in the mullion chamber or the lawn, with marks to those
about which we had no reasonable doubt.  Separately there might be explanation, but conjointly
and in connection with the date they had a remarkable force.

'I am resolved,' said Clarence, 'to see whether that figure can have a purpose.  I have thought
of it all those years.  It has hitherto had no fair play.  I was too much upset by the sight,
and beaten by the utter incredulity of everybody else; but now I am determined to look into it.'

There was both awe and resolution in his countenance, and I only stipulated that he should
not be alone, or with no more locomotive companion than myself.  Martyn was as old as I had
been at our former vigil, and a person to be relied on.

A few months ago he would have treated the matter as a curious adventurous enterprise--a concession
to superstition or imagination; but now he took it up with much grave earnestness.  He had
been discussing the evidence for such phenomena with friends at Oxford, and the conclusion
had been that they were at times permitted, sometimes as warnings, sometimes to accomplish
the redress of a wrong, sometimes to teach us the reality of the spiritual world about us;
and, likewise, that some constitutions were more susceptible than others to these influences. Andronico sent the
two Ambassadors to Roger arranging the marriage, and brought him the insignia of Grand Duke, which
is the same between us General of the sea: great dignity of the empire, but not the majors.

CHAPTER
VI.

Points paid the Emperor to the people of war, and makes many honors and favors to his captains.

Andronico said the pay according to the difference of the arms and occupation, four ounces of
silver each month to the men at arms, their horses Thin two, and so the pilots and people of mandoneros
an ounce, and provided that they reach the coast of a province of the Empire they were given
four pay, and when they wanted to return to their homes together,
or split, you fought two for the trip.  It was partly a political affair, and my
father was anxious to put Clarence forward, and make him take his place as the future squire;
and my mother thought depression had lasted long enough with her children, and did not like
to see Martyn so grave and preoccupied.  'It was quite right and very nice in him, dear boy,
but it was not natural at his age, though he was to be a clergyman.'

As to Emily, her gentle cheerfulness had helped us all through our time of sorrow, and just
now we had been gratified by the tidings of young Lawrence Frith.  That youth was doing extremely
well.  There had been golden reports from manager and chaplain, addressed to Mr. Castleford,
the latter adding that the young man evidently owed much to Mr. Winslow's influence.  Moreover,
Lawrence had turned out an excellent correspondent.  Long letters, worthy of forming a book
of travels, came regularly to Clarence and me, indeed they were thought worth being copied
into that fat clasped MS. book in the study. Writing them must have been a real solace to the
exile, in his island outside the town, whither all the outer barbarians were relegated.  So,
no doubt, was the packing of the gifts that were gradually making Prospect Cottage into a Chinese
exhibition of nodding mandarins, ivory balls, exquisite little cups, and faggots of tea.  Also,
a Chinese walking doll was sent humbly as an offering for the amusement of Miss Winslow's school
children, whom indeed she astonished beyond measure; and though her wheels are out of order,
and her movements uncertain, she is still a stereotyped incident in the Christmas entertainments. She has banned you from setting foot in this house. -How come I didn't
know about that?

Who would tell you such a story? - That was no story, Adelita girl.

Dolores told me about a conversation she had with Miss the master
about me... -Do you see?



On the night of the 26th of December, Clarence and Martyn, well wrapped in greatcoats, stole
into the outer mullion room; but though the usual sounds were heard, and the mysterious light
again appeared, Martyn perceived nothing else, and even Clarence declared that if there were
anything besides, it was far less distinct to him than it had been previously.  Could it be
that his spiritual perceptions were growing dimmer as he became older, and outgrew the sensitiveness
of nerves and imagination?

We came to the conclusion that it would be best to watch the outside of the house, rather than
within the chamber; and the dinner-party facilitated this, since it accounted for being up
and about nearer to the hour when the ghost might be expected.  Egress could be had through
the little garden door, and I undertook to sit up and keep up the fire.

All three came to my room on their return home, for Emily had become aware of our scheme, and
entreated to be allowed to watch with us. Clarence had unfastened the alarum bell from my shutters,
and taken down the bar after the curtains had been drawn by the housemaid, and he now opened
them.  It was a frosty moonlight night, and the lawn lay white and crisp, marked with fantastic
shadows.  The others looked grave and pale, Emily was in a thick white shawl and hood, with
a swan's down boa over her black dress, a somewhat ghostly figure herself, but we were in far
too serious a mood for light observations.

