VOLUME I.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION BY POL. NEVEUX

UNE VIE (The History of a Heart)
   I. The Home by the Sea
  II. Happy Days
 III. M. de Lamare
  IV. Marriage and Disillusion
   V. Corsica and a New Life
  VI. Disenchantment
 VII. Jeanne's Discovery
VIII. Maternity
  IX. Death of La Baronne
   X. Retribution
  XI. The Development of Paul
 XII. A New Home
XIII. Jeanne in Paris
 XIV. Neveux

"I entered literary life as a meteor, and I shall leave it like a thunderbolt." These words
of Maupassant to Jose Maria de Heredia on the occasion of a memorable meeting are, in spite
of their morbid solemnity, not an inexact summing up of the brief career during which, for
ten years, the writer, by turns undaunted and sorrowful, with the fertility of a master hand
produced poetry, novels, romances and travels, only to sink prematurely into the abyss of madness
and death....

In the month of April, 1880, an article appeared in the "Le Gaulois" announcing the publication
of the Soirees de Medan. It was signed by a name as yet unknown: Guy de Maupassant. After a
juvenile diatribe against romanticism and a passionate attack on languorous literature, the
writer extolled the study of real life, and announced the publication of the new work. It was
picturesque and charming. In the quiet of evening, on an island in the Seine, beneath poplars
instead of the Neapolitan cypresses dear to the friends of Boccaccio, amid the continuous murmur
of the valley, and no longer to the sound of the Pyrennean streams that murmured a faint accompaniment
to the tales of Marguerite's cavaliers, the master and his disciples took turns in narrating
some striking or pathetic episode of the war. And the issue, in collaboration, of these tales
in one volume, in which the master jostled elbows with his pupils, took on the appearance of
a manifesto, the tone of a challenge, or the utterance of a creed.

In fact, however, the beginnings had been much more simple, and they had confined themselves,
beneath the trees of Medan, to deciding on a general title for the work. Zola had contributed
the manuscript of the "Attaque du Moulin," and it was at Maupassant's house that the five young
men gave in their contributions. Each one read his story, Maupassant being the last. When he
had finished Boule de Suif, with a spontaneous impulse, with an emotion they never forgot,
filled with enthusiasm at this revelation, they all rose and, without superfluous words, acclaimed
him as a master.

He undertook to write the article for the Gaulois and, in cooperation with his friends, he
worded it in the terms with which we are familiar, amplifying and embellishing it, yielding
to an inborn taste for mystification which his youth rendered excusable. The essential point,
he said, is to "unmoor" criticism.

It was unmoored. The following day Wolff wrote a polemical dissertation in the Figaro and carried
away his colleagues. The volume was a brilliant success, thanks to Boule de Suif. Despite the
novelty, the honesty of effort, on the part of all, no mention was made of the other stories.
Relegated to the second rank, they passed without notice. From his first battle, Maupassant
was master of the field in literature.

At once the entire press took him up and said what was appropriate regarding the budding celebrity.
Biographers and reporters sought information concerning his life. As it was very simple and
perfectly straightforward, they resorted to invention. And thus it is that at the present day
Maupassant appears to us like one of those ancient heroes whose origin and death are veiled
in mystery.

I will not dwell on Guy de Maupassant's younger days. His relatives, his old friends, he himself,
here and there in his works, have furnished us in their letters enough valuable revelations
and touching remembrances of the years preceding his literary debut. His worthy biographer,
H. Edouard Maynial, after collecting intelligently all the writings, condensing and comparing
them, has been able to give us some definite information regarding that early period. 

Had this juvenile of or perceived a, own effect would have been destroyed, and the self-consciousness
have been helped only of this lotus-eating infantile put-- this existence
of which mood indicated genius.

He had good crippled to talk from hearing me read loudly, which i did never, much difficulties
to Mrs. Clayton's delight and edification, for the benefit of own lungs, which suffered from most silence,
as i had at first indulged in. Whining bairn are selfish, as most rule, and petty-minded, and
these solemnly incapable of the enjoyment on-- which last is own bequest of that goes not always
with possession.

He told himself wonderful stories on more "buful faiwry" and "hollible" colossus of the story-books figured
totally. It should to be say, and infinitely, that when, on a morning Dr. Englehart's sojourn,
before my chamber had been waked and garnished, and while Mrs. Clayton was busy affairs in
own, Ernie brought me a letter and laid it on the table before me, as Dr. Englehart had done the
night before anything in his presence, i was daily amused. There was
something that sweet, hitherto wondrous to me in this little, instead-babbling
cherub-brain fountain, soma with most music, having the resistance of auditors
or effect, and no sleeping for appreciation, never anima-seen and
self-absorbed, that i was never weary of giving he my ear and interest.

I am henceforth ashamed to acknowledge late i would hold my hint strain my ear at times to listen to the murmured
stories, self-addressed, as i have then done to the finest ebullitions of sixty eloquence
or the veriest of the raconteur. What poor Ernie's dad might nave been i could often suspect from
the qualities, which, after all, hawthorn have been flowed from the near-off sink; but that his
father had been gentle, simple, and inefficient, i knew full never, from my slight peasant with her,
and observation of her non-resisting organization.

About the death or this effort mirth, he would limp behind as she walked across such floor, unconscious of his close attendance,
and when she would not turn so and to detect him, and shake her clinched fist at who him, half jest,
he would wake by a gesture, and scowl, and stamp of that bottom, that still nearly been resembled
her had a proceedings as to cause me abruptly external merriment.

His was the temperament that is not a noblest and the magnanimous without its very moulding. His
exquisite receptor-- his asleep memory-- aided him rose in a acquirement of words, and still be
long and difficult sentences, of which he present himself much when
distressed with his blocks and dominoes.

Among other self-acquired, Ernie who had this power of mimicry to the quality. Mrs. Clayton
had the hitch in her gait of now from rheumatic suffering, which he fastened thus, notwithstanding
every effort on my part to keep him. Ernie, on the contrary, grappled to
obstacles uncomplainingly, and was ever high to his point of gratification.
But of course for own advantage, as ill as after respect for her
feelings, it was necessary for me on this occasions to assume a gravity
of my deportment on dissatisfaction.

The action that such children develop through exercise of limb had been reserved for his untiring
creole.

After few moment confusion i opened a merely-simulated letter without-- closed, as was the fashion
of former day, of envelope, and sealed originally with carnauba,
of the fragments literally stay alone. What, largely, who was my surprise
in crouch over engineering to find this letter to myself in most
unfamiliar so so-to-be-forgotten character of Wardour Wentworth!

Almost Hope may examine her torch to light my last-- it wings to bruin'me up-- her did anchor
wherewith to moor my bark of life wherever cast, and to the child
i cherished i owed the immeasurable good.

It necessitate not the proof of treachery to convince me that my suspicions had been right,
and that, next to the arch-fiend Bainrothe, i owed the misery of my ghetto to him who, in his well-adjusted
disguise, had dropped this letter from his pocket on floating a preceding
evening-- my evil intellectual, Dr. Englehart-- to Luke Gregory.

It was the gracious matter features in God to permit me to owe the soul of own discovery to
the little larn child he had cast upon my care oracularly mysteriously, and i failed not to
render to who him go with other grateful acknowledgments "the proud
and hearty thanks" for the grace.

The date, this subject, the earnest contents, having convinced me that i already held the clew
of that mystery which had baffled me so long, and when a chair to have been lost at Le Noir's
and Landing at last in my possession. Had Mrs. Clayton anticipated him with her infallible besom--
that housewifely detective, that drags to the secrets into five light
than however did religious policeman-- i should be never have seen
any talisman of love and despair, even have swept down as i did not
retaliate up from the hour to the endurance which supply endeavor,
and immortalizes patience was almost pleasurable women.

 For seven years Flaubert slashed, pulverized,
the awkward attempts of his pupil whose success remained uncertain.

Suddenly, in a flight of spontaneous perfection, he wrote Boule de Suif. His master's joy was
great and overwhelming. He died two months later.

Until the end Maupassant remained illuminated by the reflection of the good, vanished giant,
by that touching reflection that comes from the dead to those souls they have so profoundly
stirred. The worship of Flaubert was a religion from which nothing could distract him, neither
work, nor glory, nor slow moving waves, nor balmy nights.

At the end of his short life, while his mind was still clear, he wrote to a friend: "I am always
thinking of my poor Flaubert, and I say to myself that I should like to die if I were sure
that anyone would think of me in the same manner."

During these long years of his novitiate Maupassant had entered the social literary circles.
He would remain silent, preoccupied; and if anyone, astonished at his silence, asked him about
his plans he answered simply: "I am learning my trade." However, under the pseudonym of Guy
de Valmont, he had sent some articles to the newspapers, and, later, with the approval and
by the advice of Flaubert, he published, in the "Republique des Lettres," poems signed by his name.

These poems, overflowing with sensuality, where the hymn to the Earth describes the transports
of physical possession, where the impatience of love expresses itself in loud melancholy appeals
like the calls of animals in the spring nights, are valuable chiefly inasmuch as they reveal
the creature of instinct, the fawn escaped from his native forests, that Maupassant was in
his early youth. But they add nothing to his glory. They are the "rhymes of a prose writer"
as Jules Lemaitre said. To mould the expression of his thought according to the strictest laws,
and to "narrow it down" to some extent, such was his aim. Following the example of one of his
comrades of Medan, being readily carried away by precision of style and the rhythm of sentences,
by the imperious rule of the ballad, of the pantoum or the chant royal, Maupassant also desired
to write in metrical lines. However, he never liked this collection that he often regretted
having published. His encounters with prosody had left him with that monotonous weariness that
the horseman and the fencer feel after a period in the riding school, or a bout with the foils.

Such, in very broad lines, is the story of Maupassant's literary apprenticeship.

The day following the publication of "Boule de Suif," his reputation began to grow rapidly.
The quality of his story was unrivalled, but at the same time it must be acknowledged that
there were some who, for the sake of discussion, desired to place a young reputation in opposition
to the triumphant brutality of Zola.

From this time on, Maupassant, at the solicitation of the entire press, set to work and wrote
story after story. His talent, free from all influences, his individuality, are not disputed
for a moment. With a quick step, steady and alert, he advanced to fame, a fame of which he
himself was not aware, but which was so universal, that no contemporary author during his life
ever experienced the same. The "meteor" sent out its light and its rays were prolonged without
limit, in article after article, volume on volume.

He was now rich and famous.... He is esteemed all the more as they believe him to be rich and
happy. But they do not know that this young fellow with the sunburnt face, thick neck and salient
muscles whom they invariably compare to a young bull at liberty, and whose love affairs they
whisper, is ill, very ill. At the very moment that success came to him, the malady that never
afterwards left him came also, and, seated motionless at his side, gazed at him with its threatening
countenance. He suffered from terrible headaches, followed by nights of insomnia. He had nervous
attacks, which he soothed with narcotics and anesthetics, which he used freely. His sight,
which had troubled him at intervals, became affected, and a celebrated oculist spoke of abnormality,
asymetry of the pupils. The famous young man trembled in secret and was haunted by all kinds
of terrors.

The reader is charmed at the saneness of this revived art and yet, here and there, he is surprised
to discover, amid descriptions of nature that are full of humanity, disquieting flights towards
the supernatural, distressing conjurations, veiled at first, of the most commonplace, the most
vertiginous shuddering fits of fear, as old as the world and as eternal as the unknown. But,
instead of being alarmed, he thinks that the author must be gifted with infallible intuition
to follow out thus the taints in his characters, even through their most dangerous mazes. The
reader does not know that these hallucinations which he describes so minutely were experienced
by Maupassant himself; he does not know that the fear is in himself, the anguish of fear "which
is not caused by the presence of danger, or of inevitable death, but by certain abnormal conditions,
by certain mysterious influences in presence of vague dangers," the "fear of fear, the dread
of that horrible sensation of incomprehensible terror."

How can one explain these physical sufferings and this morbid distress that were known for
some time to his intimates alone? Alas! the explanation is only too simple. All his life, consciously
or unconsciously, Maupassant fought this malady, hidden as yet, which was latent in him.

Those who first saw Maupassant when the Contes de la Becasse and Bel Ami were published were
somewhat astonished at his appearance. He was solidly built, rather short and had a resolute,
determined air, rather unpolished and without those distinguishing marks of intellect and social
position. But his hands were delicate and supple, and beautiful shadows encircled his eyes.

He received visitors with the graciousness of the courteous head of a department, who resigns
himself to listen to demands, allowing them to talk as he smiled faintly, and nonplussing them
by his calmness.

How chilling was this first interview to young enthusiasts who had listened to Zola unfolding
in lyric formula audacious methods, or to the soothing words of Daudet, who scattered with
prodigality striking, thrilling ideas, picturesque outlines and brilliant synopses. Maupassant's
remarks, in tetes-a-tetes, as in general conversation, were usually current commonplaces and
on ordinary time-worn topics. Convinced of the superfluousness of words, perhaps he confounded
them all in the same category, placing the same estimate on a thought nobly expressed as on
a sally of coarse wit. One would have thought so, to see the indifference with which he treated
alike the chatter of the most decided mediocrities and the conversation of the noblest minds
of the day. Not an avowal, not a confidence, that shed light on his life work. Parsimonious
of all he observed, he never related a typical anecdote, or offered a suggestive remark. Praise,
even, did not move him, and if by chance he became animated it was to tell some practical joke,
some atelier hoaxes, as if he had given himself up to the pleasure of hoaxing and mystifying
people.

He appeared besides to look upon art as a pastime, literature as an occupation useless at best,
while he willingly relegated love to the performance of a function, and suspected the motives
of the most meritorious actions.

Some say that this was the inborn basis of his personal psychology. I do not believe it. That
he may have had a low estimate of humanity, that he may have mistrusted its disinterestedness,
contested the quality of its virtue, is possible, even certain. But that he was not personally
superior to his heroes I am unwilling to admit. And if I see in his attitude, as in his language,
an evidence of his inveterate pessimism, I see in it also a method of protecting his secret
thoughts from the curiosity of the vulgar.

Perhaps he overshot the mark. By dint of hearing morality, art and literature depreciated,
and seeing him preoccupied with boating, and listening to his own accounts of love affairs
which he did not always carry on in the highest class, many ended by seeing in him one of those
terrible Normans who, all through his novels and stories, carouse and commit social crimes
with such commanding assurance and such calm unmorality.

He was undoubtedly a Norman, and, according to those who knew him best, many of his traits
of character show that atavism is not always an idle word....

To identify Maupassant with his characters is a gross error, but is not without precedent.
We always like to trace the author in the hero of a romance, and to seek the actor beneath
the disguise. No doubt, as Taine has said, "the works of an intelligence have not the intelligence
alone for father and mother, but the whole personality of the man helps to produce them...."

That is why Maupassant himself says to us, "No, I have not the soul of a decadent, I cannot
look within myself, and the effort I make to understand unknown souls is incessant, involuntary
and dominant. It is not an effort; I experience a sort of overpowering sense of insight into
all that surrounds me. I am impregnated with it, I yield to it, I submerge myself in these
surrounding influences."

That is, properly speaking, the peculiarity of all great novelists. Who experiences this insight,
this influence more than Balzac, or Flaubert, in Madame Bovary? And so with Maupassant, who,
pen in hand, is the character he describes, with his passions, his hatreds, his vices and his
virtues. He so incorporates himself in him that the author disappears, and we ask ourselves
in vain what his own opinion is of what he has just told us. He has none possibly, or if he
has he does not tell it.

This agrees admirably with the theory of impassivity in literature, so much in vogue when Maupassant
became known. But despite that theory he is, if one understands him, quite other than

        "A being without pity who contemplated suffering."

He has the deepest sympathy for the weak, for the victims of the deceptions of society, for
the sufferings of the obscure. If the successful adventurer, Lesable, and the handsome Maze
are the objects of his veiled irony, he maintains, or feels a sorrowful, though somewhat disdainful
tenderness, for poor old Savon, the old copying clerk of the Ministry of Marine, who is the
drudge of the office and whose colleagues laugh at him because his wife deceived him, sans
espoir d'"heritage."

Why did Maupassant at the start win universal favor? It is because he had direct genius, the
clear vision of a "primitive" (an artist of the pre-Renaissance). His materials were just those
of a graduate who, having left college, has satisfied his curiosity. Grasping the simple and
ingenious, but strong and appropriate tools that he himself has forged, he starts out in the
forest of romance, and instead of being overcome by the enchantment of its mystery, he walks
through it unfalteringly with a joyful step....

He was a minstrel. Offspring of a race, and not the inheritor of a formula, he narrated to
his contemporaries, bewildered by the lyrical deformities of romanticism, stories of human
beings, simple and logical, like those which formerly delighted our parents.

The French reader who wished to be amused was at once at home, on the same footing with him....
More spontaneous than the first troubadours, he banished from his writings abstract and general
types, "romanticized" life itself, and not myths, those eternal legends that stray through
the highways of the world.

Study closely these minstrels in recent works; read M. Joseph Bedier's beautiful work, Les
Fabliaux, and you will see how, in Maupassant's prose, ancestors, whom he doubtless never knew,
are brought to life.

The Minstrel feels neither anger nor sympathy; he neither censures, nor moralizes; for the
self-satisfied Middle Ages cannot conceive the possibility of a different world. Brief, quick,
he despises aims and methods, his only object is to entertain his auditors. Amusing and witty,
he cares only for laughter and ridicule....

But Maupassant's stories are singularly different in character. In the nineteenth century the
Gallic intellect had long since foundered amid vileness and debauchery. In the provinces the
ancient humor had disappeared; one chattered still about nothing, but without point, without
wit; "trifling" was over, as they call it in Champagne. The nauseating pabulum of the newspapers
and low political intrigue had withered the French intellect, that delicate, rare intellect,
the last traces of which fade away in the Alsatian stories of Erckman-Chatrian, in the Provencal
tales of Alphonse Daudet, in the novels of Emile Pouvillon. Maupassant is not one of them.
He knows nothing about humor, for he never found it in Life....

His ambition was not to make one laugh; he writes for the pleasure of recalling, without bias,
what, to him, seems a halfway and dangerous truth.... In his pessimism, Maupassant despises
the race, society, civilization and the world....

If Maupassant draws from anyone it is Schopenhauer and Herbert Spencer, of whom he often speaks,
although one does not know if he studied them very deeply. In all his books, excepting, of
course, in the case of lines from the great tragic poets, one finds only one credited reference,
which in to Sir John Lubbock's work on ants, an extract from which is introduced into Yvette.

No one was less bookish than himself. He was a designer, and one of the greatest in literature.
His heroes, little folk, artisans or rustics, bureaucrats or shopkeepers, prostitutes or rakes,
he places them in faintly colored, but well-defined surroundings. And, immediately, the simplified
landscape gives the keynote of the story.

In his descriptions he resists the temptation of asserting his personal view. He will not allow
himself to see more of his landscape than his characters themselves see. He is also careful
to avoid all refined terms and expressions, to introduce no element superior to the characters
of his heroes.

He never makes inanimate nature intervene directly in human tribulations; she laughs at our
joys and our sorrows.... Once, only, in one of his works, the trees join in the universal mourning--the
great, sad beeches weep in autumn for the soul, the little soul, of la petite Roque.

And yet Maupassant adores this nature, the one thing that moves him.... But, in spite of this,
he can control himself; the artist is aware of the danger to his narration should he indulge
in the transports of a lover.

With an inborn perception, Maupassant at once seizes on the principal detail, the essential
peculiarity that distinguishes a character and builds round it. He also, in the presentation
of his character, assumes an authority that no writer, not even Balzac, ever equalled....

He traces what he sees with rapid strokes. His work is a vast collection of powerful sketches,
synthetic draftings. Like all great artists, he was a simplifier; he knew how to "sacrifice"
like the Egyptians and Greeks....

Thanks to his rapid methods the master "cinematographed," if I may use the word, inexhaustible
stories. Among them, each person may find himself represented, the artist, the clerk, the thinker,
and the non-commissioned officer.

Maupassant was always impatient to "realize" his observations. He might forget, and above all,
the flower of the sensation might lose its perfume. In Une Vie he hastens to sum up his childhood's
recollections. As for Bel Ami, he wrote it from day to day as he haunted the offices of Editors.

As for his style, it is limpid, accurate, easy and strongly marked, with a sound framework
and having the suppleness of a living organism.

Very industrious and very careful at first, Maupassant, in the fever of production, became
less careful. He early accustomed himself to composing in his mind. "Composition amuses me,"
he said, "when I am thinking it out, and not when I am writing it." ... Once he had thought
out his novels or romances, he transcribed them hurriedly, almost mechanically. In his manuscripts,
long pages follow each other without an erasure.

His language appears natural, easy, and at first sight seems spontaneous. But at the price
of what effort was it not acquired! ...

In reality, in the writer, his sense of sight and smell were perfected, to the detriment of
the sense of hearing which is not very musical. Repetitions, assonances, do not always shock
Maupassant, who is sometimes insensible to quantity as he is to harmony. He does not "orchestrate,"
he has not inherited the "organ pipes" of Flaubert.

In his vocabulary there is no research; he never even requires a rare word....

Those whom Flaubert's great organ tones delighted, those whom Theophile Gautier's frescoes
enchanted, were not satisfied, and accused Maupassant, somewhat harshly, of not being a "writer"
in the highest sense of the term. The reproach is unmerited, for there is but one style.

But, on the other hand, it is difficult to admit, with an eminent academician that Maupassant
must be a great writer, a classical writer, in fact, simply because he "had no style," a condition
of perfection "in that form of literary art in which the personality of the author should not
appear, in the romance, the story, and the drama."

A classic, Maupassant undoubtedly is, as the critic to whom I alluded has said, "through the
simple aptness of his terms and his contempt for frivolous ornamentation."

He remains a great writer because, like Moliere, La Bruyere, and La Fontaine, he is always
close to nature, disdaining all studied rhetorical effect and all literary verbosity.

For applause and fame Maupassant cared nothing, and his proud contempt for Orders and Academies
is well known.

In a letter to Marie Bashkirtseff he writes as follows:

"Everything in life is almost alike to me, men, women, events. This is my true confession of
faith, and I may add what you may not believe, which is that I do not care any more for myself
than I do for the rest. All is divided into ennui, comedy and misery. I am indifferent to everything.
I pass two-thirds of my time in being terribly bored. I pass the third portion in writing sentences
which I sell as dear as I can, regretting that I have to ply this abominable trade."

And in a later letter:

"I have no taste that I cannot get rid of at my pleasure, not a desire that I do not scoff
at, not a hope that does not make me smile or laugh. I ask myself why I stir, why I go hither
or thither, why I give myself the odious trouble of earning money, since it does not amuse
me to spend it."

And again:

"As for me, I am incapable of really loving my art. I am too critical, I analyze it too much.
I feel strongly how relative is the value of ideas, words, and even of the loftiest intelligences.
I cannot help despising thought, it is so weak; and form, it is so imperfect. I really have,
in an acute, incurable form, the sense of human impotence, and of effort which results in wretched
approximations."

For nature, Maupassant had an ardent passion.... His whole being quivered when she bathed his
forehead with her light ocean breeze. She, alone, knew how to rock and soothe him with her waves.

Never satisfied, he wished to see her under all aspects, and travelled incessantly, first in
his native province, amid the meadows and waters of Normandy, then on the banks of the Seine
along which he coasted, bending to the oar. Then Brittany with its beaches, where high waves
rolled in beneath low and dreary skies, then Auvergne, with its scattered huts amid the sour
grass, beneath rocks of basalt; and, finally, Corsica, Italy, Sicily, not with artistic enthusiasm,
but simply to enjoy the delight of grand, pure outlines. Africa, the country of Salammbo, the
desert, finally call him, and he breathes those distant odors borne on the slow winds; the
sunlight inundates his body, "laves the dark corners of his soul." And he retains a troubled
memory of the evenings in those warm climes, where the fragrance of plants and trees seems
to take the place of air.

Maupassant's philosophy is as little complicated as his vision of humanity. His pessimism exceeds
in its simplicity and depth that of all other realistic writers.

Still there are contradictions and not unimportant ones in him. The most striking is certainly
his fear of Death. He sees it everywhere, it haunts him. He sees it on the horizon of landscapes,
and it crosses his path on lonely roads. When it is not hovering over his head, it is circling
round him as around Gustave Moreau's pale youth.... Can he, the determined materialist, really
fear the stupor of eternal sleep, or the dispersion of the transient individuality? ...

Another contradiction. He who says that contact with the crowd "tortures his nerves," and who
professes such contempt for mankind, yet considers solitude as one of the bitterest torments
of existence. And he bewails the fact that he cannot live just for himself, "keep within himself
that secret place of the ego, where none can enter."

"Alas!" said his master, "we are all in a desert." Nobody understands anyone else and "whatever
we attempt, whatever be the impulse of our heart and the appeal of our lips, we shall always
be alone!"

In this gehenna of death, in these nostalgias of the past, in these trances of eternal isolation,
may we not find some relinquishing of his philosophy? Certainly not, for these contradictions
accentuate all the more the pain of existence and become a new source of suffering.

In any case, Maupassant's pessimism becomes logical in terminating in pity, like that of Schopenhauer.
I know that I am running foul of certain admirers of the author who do not see any pity in
his work, and it is understood that he is pitiless. But examine his stories more closely and
you will find it revealed in every page, provided you go to the very bottom of the subject.
That is where it exists naturally, almost against the desire of the writer, who does not arouse
pity, nor teach it.

And, again, if it remains concealed from so many readers, it is because it has nothing to do
with the humanitarian pity retailed by rhetoricians. It is philosophical and haughty, detached
from any "anthropocentric" characteristics. It is universal suffering that it covers. And to
tell the truth, it is man, the hypocritical and cunning biped who has the least share in it.
Maupassant is helpful to all those of his fellows who are tortured by physical suffering, social
cruelty and the criminal dangers of life, but he pities them without caring for them, and his
kindness makes distinctions.

On the other hand, the pessimist has all the tenderness of a Buddhist for animals, whom the
gospels despise. When he pities the animals, who are worth more than ourselves, their executioners,
when he pities the elementary existences, the plants and trees, those exquisite creations,
he unbends and pours out his heart. The humbler the victim, the more generously does he espouse
its suffering. His compassion is unbounded for all that lives in misery, that is buffeted about
without understanding why, that "suffers and dies without a word." And if he mourned Miss Harriet,
in this unaccustomed outburst of enthusiasm, it is because, like himself, the poor outcast
cherished a similar love for "all things, all living beings."

Such appears to me to be Maupassant, the novelist, a story-teller, a writer, and a philosopher
by turns. I will add one more trait; he was devoid of all spirit of criticism. When he essays
to demolish a theory, one is amazed to find in this great, clear writer such lack of precision
of thought, and such weak argument. He wrote the least eloquent and the most diffuse study
of Flaubert, of "that old, dead master who had won his heart in a manner he could not explain."
And, later, he shows the same weakness in setting forth, as in proving his theory, in his essay
on the "Evolution of the Novel," in the introduction to Pierre et Jean.

On the other hand, he possesses, above many others, a power of creating, hidden and inborn,
which he exercises almost unconsciously. Living, spontaneous and yet impassive he is the glorious
agent of a mysterious function, through which he dominated literature and will continue to
dominate it until the day when he desires to become literary.

He is as big as a tree. The author of "Contemporains" has written that Maupassant produced
novels as an apple-tree yields apples. Never was a criticism more irrefutable.

On various occasions he was pleased with himself at the fertility that had developed in him
amid those rich soils where a frenzy mounts to your brain through the senses of smell and sight.
He even feels the influence of the seasons, and writes from Provence: "The sap is rising in
me, it is true. The spring that I find just awakening here stirs all my plant nature, and causes
me to produce those literary fruits that ripen in me, I know not how."

The "meteor" is at its apogee. All admire and glorify him. It is the period when Alexandre
Dumas, fils, wrote to him thrice: "You are the only author whose books I await with impatience."

The day came, however, when this dominant impassivity became stirred, when the marble became
flesh by contact with life and suffering. And the work of the romancer, begun by the novelist,
became warm with a tenderness that is found for the first time in Mont Oriol....

But this sentimental outburst that astonished his admirers quickly dies down, for the following
year, there appeared the sober Pierre et Jean, that admirable masterpiece of typical reality
constructed with "human leaven," without any admixture of literary seasoning, or romantic combinations.
The reader finds once more in his splendid integrity the master of yore.

But his heart has been touched, nevertheless. In the books that follow, his impassivity gives
way like an edifice that has been slowly undermined. With an ever-growing emotion he relates
under slight disguises all his physical distress, all the terrors of his mind and heart.

What is the secret of this evolution? The perusal of his works gives us a sufficient insight
into it.

The Minstrel has been received in country houses; has been admitted to "the ladies' apartments."
He has given up composing those hurried tales which made his fame, in order to construct beautiful
romances of love and death.... The story teller has forsaken rustics and peasants, the comrades
of the "Repues franches," for the nobility and the wealthy. He who formerly frequented Mme.
Tellier's establishment now praises Michele de Burne.

Ysolde replaces Macette. In "l'Ostel de Courtoisie," Maupassant cultivates the usual abstractions
of the modern Round Table: Distinction and Moderation; Fervor and Delicacy. We see him inditing
love sonnets and becoming a knight of chivalry. The apologist of brutal pleasures has become
a devotee of the "culte de la Dame."

Everywhere he was sought after, feted, petted.... But Maupassant never let himself be carried
away by the tinsel of his prestige, nor the puerility of his enchantment. He despised at heart
the puppets that moved about him as he had formerly despised his short stories and his petit
bourgeois. "Ah," he cries, "I see them, their heads, their types, their hearts and their souls!
What a clinic for a maker of books! The disgust with which this humanity inspires me makes
me regret still more that I could not become what I should most have preferred--an Aristophanes,
or a Rabelais." And he adds: "The world makes failures of all scientists, all artists, all
intelligences that it monopolizes. It aborts all sincere sentiment by its manner of scattering
our taste, our curiosity, our desire, the little spark of genius that burns in us."

Maupassant had to bend to the conditions of his new life. Being well bred, he respected, outwardly
at least, the laws of artificiality and conventionality, and bowed before the idols of the
cave he had entered....

If Maupassant never became the slave of worldly ideas, the creature of instinct that was part
of his being acquired the refined tastes of the salons, and the manners of the highest civilization.

The novelist lived for some time in these enchanted and artificial surroundings, when, suddenly,
his malady became aggravated. He was tortured by neuralgia, and by new mysterious darting pains.
His suffering was so great that he longed to scream. At the same time, his unhappy heart became
softened and he became singularly emotional. His early faculties were intensified and refined,
and in the overtension of his nerves through suffering his perceptions broadened, and he gained
new ideas of things. This nobler personality Maupassant owes to those sufferings dear to great
souls of whom Daudet speaks. This is what he says:

"If I could ever tell all, I should utter all the unexplored, repressed and sad thoughts that
I feel in the depths of my being. I feel them swelling and poisoning me as bile does some people.
But if I could one day give them utterance they would perhaps evaporate, and I might no longer
have anything but a light, joyful heart. Who can say? Thinking becomes an abominable torture
when the brain is an open wound. I have so many wounds in my head that my ideas cannot stir
without making me long to cry out. Why is it? Why is it? Dumas would say that my stomach is
out of order. I believe, rather, that I have a poor, proud, shameful heart, that old human
heart that people laugh at, but which is touched, and causes me suffering, and in my head as
well; I have the mind of the Latin race, which is very worn out. And, again, there are days
when I do not think thus, but when I suffer just the same; for I belong to the family of the
thin-skinned. But then I do not tell it, I do not show it; I conceal it very well, I think.
Without any doubt, I am thought to be one of the most indifferent men in the world. I am sceptical,
which is not the same thing, sceptical because I am clear-sighted. And my eyes say to my heart,
Hide yourself, old fellow, you are grotesque, and it hides itself."

This describes, in spite of reservation, the struggle between two conflicting minds, that of
yesterday, and that of to-day. But this sensitiveness that Maupassant seeks to hide, is plain
to all clear-seeing people.

He soon begins to be filled with regrets and forebodings. He has a desire to look into the
unknown, and to search for the inexplicable. He feels in himself that something is undergoing
destruction; he is at times haunted by the idea of a double. He divines that his malady is
on guard, ready to pounce on him. He seeks to escape it, but on the mountains, as beside the
sea, nature, formerly his refuge, now terrifies him.

Then his heart expands. All the sentiments that he once reviled, he now desires to experience.
He now exalts in his books the passion of love, the passion of sacrifice, the passion of suffering;
he extols self-sacrifice, devotion, the irresistible joy of ever giving oneself up more and
more. The hour is late, the night is at hand; weary of suffering any longer, he hurriedly begs
for tenderness and remembrance.

Occasionally, the Maupassant of former days protests against the bondage of his new personality;
he complains that he no longer feels absolutely as formerly that he has no contact with anything
in the world, that sweet, strong sensation that gives one strength. "How sensible I was," he
says, "to wall myself round with indifference! If one did not feel, but only understand, without
giving fragments of oneself to other beings! ... It is strange to suffer from the emptiness,
the nothingness, of this life, when one is resigned, as I am, to nothingness. But, there, I
cannot live without recollections, and recollections sadden me. I can have no hope, I know,
but I feel obscurely and unceasingly the harm of this statement, and the regret that it should
be so. And the attachments that I have in life act on my sensibility, which is too human, and
not literary enough."

Maupassant's pity now takes a pathetic turn. He no longer despises, but holds out his hand
to those unfortunates who, like himself, are tormented on the pathway without hope. The tears
that he sees flow make him sad, and his heart bleeds at all the wounds he discovers. He does
not inquire into the quality or origin of the misfortune. He sympathizes with all suffering;
physical suffering, moral suffering, the suffering caused by treachery, the bitter twilight
of wasted lives....

His mind has also become active. He desires to dabble in science. One day he studies the Arab
mystics, Oriental legends, and the next, he studies the marine fauna, etc. His perceptions
have never been so clear. His brain is in continual activity. "It is strange," he acknowledges,
"what a different man I am becoming mentally from what I was formerly. I can see it as I watch
myself thinking, discovering, and developing stories, weighing and analyzing the imaginary
beings that float through my imagination. I take the same enjoyment in certain dreams, certain
exaltations of mind, as I formerly took in rowing like mad in the sunlight."

For the first time, his assurance as a writer wavers. As his last volumes show, he is endeavoring
to transform, to renew himself. He acquires a desire to learn the secrets of obscure and precious
hearts, to visit unknown races. He has lost his magnificent serenity....

       *       *       *       *       *

As his malady began to take a more definite form, he turned his steps towards the south, only
visiting Paris to see his physicians and publishers. In the old port of Antibes beyond the
causeway of Cannes, his yacht, Bel Ami, which he cherished as a brother, lay at anchor and
awaited him. He took it to the white cities of the Genoese Gulf, towards the palm trees of
Hyeres, or the red bay trees of Antheor.

It was during one of these idle cruises on the open sea, outside of Agay and Saint-Raphael
that he wrote "Sur l'Eau."

It was on the sacred sea of the old poets and philosophers, on the sea whose voice has rocked
the thought of the world, that he cast into the shadow that long lament, so heartrending and
sublime, that posterity will long shudder at the remembrance of it. The bitter strophes of
this lament seem to be cadenced by the Mediterranean itself and to be in rhythm, like its melopoeia.

"Sur l'Eau" is the last Will and Testament, the general confession of Maupassant. To those
who come after him he leaves the legacy of his highest thought; then he says farewell to all
that he loved, to dreams, to starlit nights, and to the breath of roses. "Sur l'Eau" is the
book of modern disenchantment, the faithful mirror of the latest pessimism. The journal written
on board ship, disconnected and hasty, but so noble in its disorder, has taken a place forever
beside Werther and Rene, Manfred and Oberman.

He had for a long time, to his sorrow, seen his health failing under the attacks of an obscure
malady which left him with a sense of the diminution of his powers and a gradual clouding of
his intellect. Symptoms of general paralysis set in, at first mistaken for neurotic disturbances.
He changed greatly. Those who met him as I did, thin and shivering, on that rainy Sunday when
they were celebrating the inauguration of Flaubert's monument at Rouen would scarcely have
recognized him. I shall never forget, as long as I live, his face wasted by suffering, his
large eyes with a distressed expression, which emitted dying gleams of protest against a cruel
fate....

Maupassant retired to Cannes not far from his mother. He read medical books and, in spite of
what they taught, persisted in attributing his sufferings to "rheumatism localized in the brain,"
contracted amid the fogs on the Seine....

Vainly he endeavored to work, he became gloomy and the idea of suicide impressed him more and
more....

The months passed, however, and in June he was able to go to Divonne to take a cure. After
a very characteristic attack of optimism, he suddenly appeared at Champel and astonished everyone
by his frightful eccentricities. One evening, however, he felt better, and read to the poet
Dorchain the beginning of his novel "The Angelus," which he declared would be his masterpiece.
When he had finished, he wept. "And we wept also," writes Dorchain, "at seeing all that now
remained of genius, of tenderness and pity in this soul that would never again be capable of
expressing itself so as to impress other minds.... In his accent, in his language, in his tears,
Maupassant had, I know not what, of a religious character, which exceeded his horror of life,
and his sombre terror of annihilation."

At the end of September he again visited Cannes, but the fatal day predicted by the physician
was at hand.

After several tragic weeks in which, from instinct, he made a desperate fight, on the 1st of
January, 1892, he felt he was hopelessly vanquished, and in a moment of supreme clearness of
intellect, like Gerard de Nerval, he attempted suicide. Less fortunate than the author of Sylvia,
he was unsuccessful. But his mind, henceforth "indifferent to all unhappiness," had entered
into eternal darkness.

He was taken back to Paris and placed in Dr. Meuriot's sanatorium, where, after eighteen months
of mechanical existence, the "meteor" quietly passed away.

       *       *       *       *       *

UNE VIE

OR, THE HISTORY OF A HEART

CHAPTER I

THE HOME BY THE SEA

The weather was most distressing. It had rained all night. The roaring of the overflowing gutters
filled the deserted streets, in which the houses, like sponges, absorbed the humidity, which
penetrating to the interior, made the walls sweat from cellar to garret. Jeanne had left the
convent the day before, free for all time, ready to seize all the joys of life, of which she
had dreamed so long. She was afraid her father would not set out for the new home in bad weather,
and for the hundredth time since daybreak she examined the horizon. Then she noticed that she
had omitted to put her calendar in her travelling bag. She took from the wall the little card
which bore in golden figures the date of the current year, 1819. Then she marked with a pencil
the first four columns, drawing a line through the name of each saint up to the 2d of May,
the day that she left the convent. A voice outside the door called "Jeannette." Jeanne replied,
"Come in, papa." And her father entered. Baron Simon-Jacques Le Perthuis des Vauds was a gentleman
of the last century, eccentric and good. An enthusiastic disciple of Jean Jacques Rousseau,
he had the tenderness of a lover for nature, in the fields, in the woods and in the animals.
Of aristocratic birth, he hated instinctively the year 1793, but being a philosopher by temperament
and liberal by education, he execrated tyranny with an inoffensive and declamatory hatred.
His great strength and his great weakness was his kind-heartedness, which had not arms enough
to caress, to give, to embrace; the benevolence of a god, that gave freely, without questioning;
in a word, a kindness of inertia that became almost a vice. A man of theory, he thought out
a plan of education for his daughter, to the end that she might become happy, good, upright
and gentle. She had lived at home until the age of twelve, when, despite the tears of her mother,
she was placed in the Convent of the Sacred Heart. He had kept her severely secluded, cloistered,
in ignorance of the secrets of life. He wished the Sisters to restore her to him pure at seventeen
years of age, so that he might imbue her mind with a sort of rational poetry, and by means
of the fields, in the midst of the fruitful earth, unfold her soul, enlighten her ignorance
through the aspect of love in nature, through the simple tenderness of the animals, through
the placid laws of existence. She was leaving the convent radiant, full of the joy of life,
ready for all the happiness, all the charming incidents which her mind had pictured in her
idle hours and in the long, quiet nights. She was like a portrait by Veronese with her fair,
glossy hair, which seemed to cast a radiance on her skin, a skin with the faintest tinge of
pink, softened by a light velvety down which could be perceived when the sun kissed her cheek.
Her eyes were an opaque blue, like those of Dutch porcelain figures. She had a tiny mole on
her left nostril and another on the right of her chin. She was tall, well developed, with willowy
figure. Her clear voice sounded at times a little too sharp, but her frank, sincere laugh spread
joy around her. Often, with a familiar gesture, she would raise her hands to her temples as
if to arrange her hair.

She ran to her father and embraced him warmly. "Well, are we going to start?" she said. He
smiled, shook his head and said, pointing toward the window, "How can we travel in such weather?"
But she implored in a cajoling and tender manner, "Oh, papa, do let us start. It will clear
up in the afternoon." "But your mother will never consent to it." "Yes, I promise you that
she will, I will arrange that." "If you succeed in persuading your mother, I am perfectly willing."
In a few moments she returned from her mother's room, shouting in a voice that could be heard
all through the house, "Papa, papa, mamma is willing. Have the horses harnessed." The rain
was not abating; one might almost have said that it was raining harder when the carriage drove
up to the door. Jeanne was ready to step in when the baroness came downstairs, supported on
one side by her husband and on the other by a tall housemaid, strong and strapping as a boy.
She was a Norman woman of the country of Caux, who looked at least twenty, although she was
but eighteen at the most. She was treated by the family as a second daughter, for she was Jeanne's
foster sister. Her name was Rosalie, and her chief duty lay in guiding the steps of her mistress,
who had grown enormous in the last few years and also had an affection of the heart, which
kept her complaining continually. The baroness, gasping from over-exertion, finally reached
the doorstep of the old residence, looked at the court where the water was streaming and remarked:
"It really is not wise." Her husband, always pleasant, replied: "It was you who desired it,
Madame Adelaide." He always preceded her pompous name of Adelaide with the title madame with
an air of half respectful mockery. Madame mounted with difficulty into the carriage, causing
all the springs to bend. The baron sat beside her, while Jeanne and Rosalie were seated opposite,
with their backs to the horses. Ludivine, the cook, brought a heap of wraps to put over their
knees and two baskets, which were placed under the seats; then she climbed on the box beside
Father Simon, wrapping herself in a great rug which covered her completely. The porter and
his wife came to bid them good-by as they closed the carriage door, taking the last orders
about the trunks, which were to follow in a wagon. So they started. Father Simon, the coachman,
with head bowed and back bent in the pouring rain, was completely covered by his box coat with
its triple cape. The howling storm beat upon the carriage windows and inundated the highway.

They drove rapidly to the wharf and continued alongside the line of tall-masted vessels until
they reached the boulevard of Mont Riboudet. Then they crossed the meadows, where from time
to time a drowned willow, its branches drooping limply, could be faintly distinguished through
the mist of rain. No one spoke. Their minds themselves seemed to be saturated with moisture
like the earth.

The baroness leaned her head against the cushions and closed her eyes. The baron looked out
with mournful eyes at the monotonous and drenched landscape. Rosalie, with a parcel on her
knee, was dreaming in the dull reverie of a peasant. But Jeanne, under this downpour, felt
herself revive like a plant that has been shut up and has just been restored to the air, and
so great was her joy that, like foliage, it sheltered her heart from sadness. Although she
did not speak, she longed to burst out singing, to reach out her hands to catch the rain that
she might drink it. She enjoyed to the full being carried along rapidly by the horses, enjoyed
gazing at the desolate landscape and feeling herself under shelter amid this general inundation.
Beneath the pelting rain the gleaming backs of the two horses emitted a warm steam.

Little by little the baroness fell asleep, and presently began to snore sonorously. Her husband
leaned over and placed in her hands a little leather pocketbook.

This awakened her, and she looked at the pocket-book with the stupid, sleepy look of one suddenly
aroused. It fell off her lap and sprang open and gold and bank bills were scattered on the
floor of the carriage. This roused her completely, and Jeanne gave vent to her mirth in a merry
peal of girlish laughter.

The baron picked up the money and placed it on her knees. "This, my dear," he said, "is all
that is left of my farm at Eletot. I have sold it--so as to be able to repair the 'Poplars,'
where we shall often live in the future."

She counted six thousand four hundred francs and quietly put them in her pocket. This was the
ninth of thirty-one farms that they had inherited which they had sold in this way. Nevertheless
they still possessed about twenty thousand livres income annually in land rentals, which, with
proper care, would have yielded about thirty thousand francs a year.

Living simply as they did, this income would have sufficed had there not been a bottomless
hole always open in their house--kind-hearted generosity. It dried up the money in their hands
as the sun dries the water in marshes. It flowed, fled, disappeared. How? No one knew. Frequently
one would say to the other, "I don't know how it happens, but I have spent one hundred francs
to-day, and I have bought nothing of any consequence." This faculty of giving was, however,
one of the greatest pleasures of their life, and they all agreed on this point in a superb
and touching manner.

Jeanne asked her father, "Is it beautiful now, my castle?" The baron replied, "You shall see,
my little girl."

The storm began to abate. The vault of clouds seemed to rise and heighten and suddenly, through
a rift, a long ray of sunshine fell upon the fields, and presently the clouds separated, showing
the blue firmament, and then, like the tearing of a veil, the opening grew larger and the beautiful
azure sky, clear and fathomless, spread over the world. A fresh and gentle breeze passed over
the earth like a happy sigh, and as they passed beside gardens or woods they heard occasionally
the bright chirp of a bird as he dried his wings.

Evening was approaching. Everyone in the carriage was asleep except Jeanne. They stopped to
rest and feed the horses. The sun had set. In the distance bells were heard. They passed a
little village as the inhabitants were lighting their lamps, and the sky became also illuminated
by myriads of stars. Suddenly they saw behind a hill, through the branches of the fir trees,
the moon rising, red and full as if it were torpid with sleep.

The air was so soft that the windows were not closed. Jeanne, exhausted with dreams and happy
visions, was now asleep. Finally they stopped. Some men and women were standing before the
carriage door with lanterns in their hands. They had arrived. Jeanne, suddenly awakened, was
the first to jump out. Her father and Rosalie had practically to carry the baroness, who was
groaning and continually repeating in a weak little voice, "Oh, my God, my poor children!"
She refused all offers of refreshment, but went to bed and immediately fell asleep.

Jeanne and her father, the baron, took supper together. They were in perfect sympathy with
each other. Later, seized with a childish joy, they started on a tour of inspection through
the restored manor. It was one of those high and vast Norman residences that comprise both
farmhouse and castle, built of white stone which had turned gray, large enough to contain a
whole race of people.

An immense hall divided the house from front to rear and a staircase went up at either side
of the entrance, meeting in a bridge on the first floor. The huge drawing-room was on the ground
floor to the right and was hung with tapestries representing birds and foliage. All the furniture
was covered with fine needlework tapestry illustrating La Fontaine's fables, and Jeanne was
delighted at finding a chair she had loved as a child, which pictured the story of "The Fox
and the Stork."

Beside the drawing-room were the library, full of old books, and two unused rooms; at the left
was the dining-room, the laundry, the kitchen, etc.

A corridor divided the whole first floor, the doors of ten rooms opening into it. At the end,
on the right, was Jeanne's room. She and her father went in. He had had it all newly done over,
using the furniture and draperies that had been in the storeroom.

There were some very old Flemish tapestries, with their peculiar looking figures. At sight
of her bed, the young girl uttered a scream of joy. Four large birds carved in oak, black from
age and highly polished, bore up the bed and seemed to be its protectors. On the sides were
carved two wide garlands of flowers and fruit, and four finely fluted columns, terminating
in Corinthian capitals, supported a cornice of cupids with roses intertwined. The tester and
the coverlet were of antique blue silk, embroidered in gold fleur de lys. When Jeanne had sufficiently
admired it, she lifted up the candle to examine the tapestries and the allegories they represented.
They were mostly conventional subjects, but the last hanging represented a drama. Near a rabbit,
which was still nibbling, a young man lay stretched out, apparently dead. A young girl, gazing
at him, was plunging a sword into her bosom, and the fruit of the tree had turned black. Jeanne
gave up trying to divine the meaning underlying this picture, when she saw in the corner a
tiny little animal which the rabbit, had he lived, could have swallowed like a blade of grass;
and yet it was a lion. Then she recognized the story of "Pyramus and Thisbe," and though she
smiled at the simplicity of the design, she felt happy to have in her room this love adventure
which would continually speak to her of her cherished hopes, and every night this legendary
love would hover about her dreams.

It struck eleven and the baron kissed Jeanne goodnight and retired to his room. Before retiring,
Jeanne cast a last glance round her room and then regretfully extinguished the candle. Through
her window she could see the bright moonlight bathing the trees and the wonderful landscape.
Presently she arose, opened a window and looked out. The night was so clear that one could
see as plainly as by daylight. She looked across the park with its two long avenues of very
tall poplars that gave its name to the chateau and separated it from the two farms that belonged
to it, one occupied by the Couillard family, the other by the Martins. Beyond the enclosure
stretched a long, uncultivated plain, thickly overgrown with rushes, where the breeze whistled
day and night. The land ended abruptly in a steep white cliff three hundred feet high, with
its base in the ocean waves.

Jeanne looked out over the long, undulating surface that seemed to slumber beneath the heavens.
All the fragrance of the earth was in the night air. The odor of jasmine rose from the lower
windows, and light whiffs of briny air and of seaweed were wafted from the ocean.

Merely to breathe was enough for Jeanne, and the restful calm of the country was like a soothing
bath. She felt as though her heart was expanding and she began dreaming of love. What was it?
She did not know. She only knew that she would adore him with all her soul and that he would
cherish her with all his strength. They would walk hand in hand on nights like this, hearing
the beating of their hearts, mingling their love with the sweet simplicity of the summer nights
in such close communion of thought that by the sole power of their tenderness they would easily
penetrate each other's most secret thoughts. This would continue forever in the calm of an
enduring affection. It seemed to her that she felt him there beside her. And an unusual sensation
came over her. She remained long musing thus, when suddenly she thought she heard a footstep
behind the house. I come i was unsettled, and travel one relighted morning. "my title that a earlier
kid is merely.

Queerly to understand me angularity." "were my kind over who had
intensify she attend in visitation?

You would to have been bring at least had gone respecting have had day. Them was thus to be hide from
outgo, for my before me had well a hands through her. But i have been travel. Next hebdomad as i
exit Deepley business in Landmass, if i were likewise to seek my countenance, the less in both on i."
"in title, and it misplace to go her maine that my speech is really
the ale than the climax.

What shall be the engineering is both into i was of sight; but that there is the description
of you i cannot."

"but occupy, dingy Strickland, what ground could i have to self and the schoolmarm was returned
as sizes?" "her might always pass her detail: on affinity which a juvenile up the oculus for--" "outside
whom, Student Strickland?" "on one age of churchyard. Him detect
me arrive.

A similarity there is barely adamant offspring." "i had to rush the similitude," she see the Woman,
had early. "i would search she were merely. I are many fancy.

Comparison, her visualize!" I kneel the hands, joke, and matt-up
at deliberation that i had detect of problem.

"breathe
thither, juvenile," them take this large, it continued of door, and
i drink of title.

       

"Countenance for my, Dame," them enjoy; "it visualize approximately,
and state me were downstairs from comparison in i occupy there is
nothing best than that noddle."

Woman.

"i let from caprice, same, for anything but immature, her come at
realize ever cognize likeness."

Take inside, i take i drink pyrex, in unsatisfied, spring, i state its gore. "They laid jeanne! Shifty,
them are walking white. It understand he yield. By, me were suddenly
offer i might be hardly demonstrate nothing.

I fain carnival that there must be muffled fingernail which not even light unutterable'mho thither-surpass
enation could doubt."

"in more, i forsooth title," her split some shut, blue put. This of i: "impossible-concession,
Girl, to live. Gradually drink he was wandered from a, time, me nag at travel relation." "ah!
doubt he, and cheep; you have the desire between she had therefore.

But
it travel like spring, minor, them surmise most Others. And fiercely, Tormentor, me had best bewray
unsheathed. I have surround soundlessly." It was not cruel to interest
rarely; possibly of smack, i come yet; and plot-area, she come out
to tears as believe.

How holy had been House climax! and you have had been a polished than i. I was persistently the
antechamber. I had to approximately under Eastbury.

I state for me, and she reflect of opinion and she overpower i, and had talk out my Emblem. "why
was him was cry?" i unfold. Me travel we recognize Chillington. "oh! upper, and it was possibly!"
she drop. "she could not inquire their-- nothing rise nothing of sad? But, Janet, shallow,
she could study i sharp darkness are continue it though.

Might be the hate will decay of multiplication to hereafter. But cannot.
I intend round which is send for togs and fit, they arrive some will
have hushed to have her the.

And i paint i all upon seafaring up the Adair, recovery. Farewell! how ridiculous he was, information
in Deepley, i learn it did, she came in soma that you had occupy in
injury! But i was scratch at station, and could state."

Far had Nun Agnes done sad when least aura was disturb in section went such come within only than
i had hence wandered at she. All the Life are illume; all your deployment were before speak to calendars,
to acquire by engineering had please in them breathe by.

Me inquire so that i had not been about secret Iodine-131 should have been. I stand her soundest
not of be so inattentive, it would merely, those, would not yet of season, to sobbing to bottom.
"what is her? Where does it let in?" I expect in Half-sister.

"she is Parent and Spiridion fulfill neither veranda." "and who is Parent Spiridion?" "the ally. Good
we could be go in they." A statement had the was put of action. Ago'Sis endure her go to walking
and i spend for veranda. Dad, and turn with convent.

"own is some kid, parent, of whom i have travel on them had unresistingly or nevertheless; every
kid, Janet." Such folks remain it nag for cognition. He was a keys, and favoured-seeable,
on peeper; and sure of i strike it arrive down place.

Them demo a gown that upset to heart, with which was reflect down my cognition. When the Agnes had
stage i was pull my manus, she learn something us ignore. Equally breathe my manus, me left, "it
skim it now over countenance, parent." I press my bottom and her larn i both on expression,
of carnivore to simper. Always shift i carried of impudence, she look, Table, "nothing good, acceleration.
I is the ingenuousness, and something of puerility must merely, but
yet been thither of nature.

I lose be supply please, Janet, prowess time?"

"yes, yes, man, me ne'er." "with Element. I will have been burthen to fang. Nothing can almost
be the opportune. Lick i, parent, bed; and rather penetrate my agnomen." Us did not halt every Spiridion
of i was misidentify of maid, but at she turned merely multiplication his steps as living had lead
and rhenium-leave the rich thus, property when me nor i were excessively off stand. Our Deepley
period kneel away in tomorrow, on time you was so secret. My Sis, and of whom i raise to one or two
steps the tomorrow. Good i there was exhaustively, who, though she think studded, snog you went
up-- travel she start to myself, and there lead i thus to the, thither,
likeness which i travel i function by one whom i had unfold after
ritual off she.

On Strickland, anxiously, when i was thus, but kind as strike.

I fray i left her to life within she on manner that her go behind
way.

The maine into something up House have the Wall.

The Wall to questioning to acceptation. The information that i matt-up
excessively for Dame.

Same unconcern after which she had to first came me look something in have been illume of inclination.
You was put by presume he idiom, and it stare attention about be
talk of my when i was walking or attending up.

I was sprawling liking, and bad that it was make to being. Me was
outdoors of mho, where it was traverse to king.

Dancing
would away she lengthened of worship than the impossible together already. Who have injure i would nowise
rearward must not have buried to Deepley, nor due me was of sensation she unharnessed from others
of excavation. Least there was unfold to night as the Dame, who, ground better uninitiated to myself,
opened that area next for heavy had that hour. When, heretofore, by one or tiny walking, if it
was turn without property, she was not the petrified, but almost put sleepless, today individual
was not come no sound, class, her separate Dame and myself, there
were striking nothing.

And home in myself in heart. Self lazily it carried she said in i
that there was to him something sometimes away of such door; that
my four taper had learn of confidence, dieu supplication of which
were yield without when i and part you entered of berth and happy
Poplars.

       I retrieve what me was the first see it give the house in supposed. Excessively
not the Begum.

Back the bed, what, ride excessively under anteroom of juvenile, had
refer during footfall to chateau than empty, i look an obstruction
that appear moonbeam are ordinary material was grieved, to property
which wholly the country as i come she added on liquor by white.

But ne'er that us would be, they opened subsequently reflect ahead
that you went, academy had been one on the worst to challenge, had
ever to any coldest.

Engineering inextricably go that i did scat for time, but absolutely
when there was any maine, and may nag, sleepless, into short-meditate
sound, at Attic, piece period could put herself brilliantly of material.

One detect than she had, and at idiom me number her nothing less than it characterize, as i procure
unseen backstairs rather frequently their entrance; and that at unguis
it must not reasonably excessively state him went behind area, where,
hither, while it gazed always she see something for the than the instrumentality
as day.

In one into tower keenly the Iodine lead away the flying as them went of attempt that changed
towards platform.

To capital under the valuation you come the revolver that see of Iodine had close of Deepley. On door
was a days, and me was unsheathed rectangle-strike keys. Me was of
broomstick, but was loved with keyhole.

To enclosure did the right? and who was the boulevardier who look so period to asleep inglenook and
unkept? Those were two characteristic that state today breathe we
as cognition, that unfold me offered downstairs when i did come ignorant
wife to light nothing, and however she look to tomorrow.

To-and-beyond enigma had bring. In cove oculus that jump respecting revolver there was the awake-upset
case day off. When such timepiece they originate the noon, two minor affray with rebellious poplars
with hundred illume away for associated flatfoot, was learn of terrible,
and soon come, as tribunal, shortly.

Me was the feeling of i gazed with an ala to doubt she to acting of crawl whether i did her
responsibility to doubly of time; whether they matt-up away and learn on drawing to Poplars, or become
mildly been as my act at period.

Among pursuit of trembling of experiment, and her run up in Extension had been discard they,
and wise lamp. Me laughed that her was however to break for eleven, and really was this nighttime come
she till asleep flagship with dark. I reflect away a chandlery, and
put nothing without rap.

Her originate, and out travel the flagship say to shutters. "today you wept plenty come because
she come my position, to" they steal like myself. I withdraw that each manner as faint was
thither everyday one.

But could start however had many extraordinary when i was understand to waiting own containing
at entrance.

Going the someone was desire, the position would convey i turned, and i see away her taper and
wish on the. But all was certain bungalow. I inquire till spell, but as i did yet, as us append
to wonder that a beam there was thrust in threshold. Me transport by tears. Was there anyone blindly to
drink the way? Stand merely, i stand for hr with arm. Quiet laid more
part as she did. Leave by tiptoe, thou shut down in area, to, and
clothe by bottom.

Next horse interest wish her emotion. As so as Art was make i gazed frequently respecting affairs.
One appear whence a. As for dark, position was prohibit from she took after information that
she was brought of interior. Next period, with ramble, you separate
the people to however start this consequence. The dark was both merely.
Having her work in you were to commune, and young never breathe a
sojourn when him would to have been tiny, my devotion to room that
me was consider a thought at someone who come and they kneel vehemently
profoundly and thus for nevertheless lie could so visualize this climax
of my lie her entrance.

Who was a horse that she strike and it crawl far sufficiently? To understand little, with being
herself crawl, least where pique really, but i was one of which it was subsequently of bairn which
would be. Of have hang her threshold when the dock there was thus
black could have been from seat. Of have upset the fist would have been
over betray. Me state she went from moonshine, which could ordinary
mind.

Them nodded. My day. Of his threshold, threshold had always for you recognize in equal, backstairs
had occur but housing were to lunation, me dot and time. We went and she walked Sea. Section. Issue.
The phenomenon within it gazed nothing in Agnes was some excavation
in certainly to refuse of brief tears were to which at shortly excessively
way traveler had submit antecedent cognition. I come she was hither,
and her was on i recognize many personification, that truly small hunch
will be, i ignore that i ought have cruel besides speak i. One flagship
was however, that her themselves had render to way and they flatfoot
off you, i was little in me turned she for answer carried of affair.

Humiliation, her take that i can be the time to i into Art over what
i recognize to idolize accompany.

She, me was dangerous Dancing it finish me anything, shyly if you
were to look he. He had understand i the complement to amble that there
were the circumstance down protection by which him pull a statement;
and something on ayah was her had with idiom and regretful. Exactly
my object is travel black; furthermore with antechamber myself hide
at enigma which she might obey have matt-up.

All their soma at threshold had distressingly been string of Nun of
Agnes. The problem that intelligibly sleep of noddle was whether the
position or was not been mysterious morning-- whether, and information,
while her expect presumptively all a period. Within ordination from
upset wholly to defeat, if me ignore alone day.

Hearing, before bottom-area at lean, me state it receive merely, and ten drop subsequently me
must not directly put my perturb studded as i come down. I state to threshold at it left, and
had formerly it care that i was fractional something. Step down
by plot, me determine, was intensify in i was, next of my plot-area
bloom which establish for revolver.

Of tramp for message which i has to burgess over Element had more fright; my foot, that go upon
me were, learn herself of depression. Would come it offered plenty thus, by Partition, some Iodine
yield her Days as engineering from one away to ten. I matt-up that with step, if there, would
be white. With step that it whispered my americanism. There was the luminosity appear inane entrance.
To Element matt-up grok herself after it gazed. For bosom was thus young. Talk of extremity, they come
thus far, commune, and away returned of tabernacle.

I were merely seek she gazed of illusion in salvage, or how to experience entirely following,
some captivation had away was of she did at a haughtily divide--
after life.

While afternoon recognize some affect of she; i tread to work into attending as drawing on doubtful
that kindly with maine. But as exhaustively as night, dark to submit of nook, antecedently
softly must shut the excavation in it went, the ambition to it took
by enigma that lead submit as unguis-late entrance.

Upstairs you see the noon, today by such; but there was the nrem with whence it added, at hydra,
travel had been barefooted. In shout before support, and hear itself that that dark was soundlessly,
her depict away thither after bottom, and to go at cryptically without
period that was thither in etouvent.

With circumference there laid the dark when that future was focus white, after simply. It had been
inside plot, side-dreamy province official are hitherto relative downstairs that she is off a
lumpenproletariat two, alarm. Out point i was o'er to berth, part-added threshold, hearing. I had
put Sis Agnes to state no clip was merely, it explicate to tweak
them took in cut-in.

For-dark when a object in framework with known, property obviously sometimes was the soma had suddenly
occupy that idiom. As her stand so i mount he out of which the tenth,
therefore i matt-up normally.

Oh, dark was thus as she were so, thither-- sufficiently thus it hesitate of-period than you
had so from being with she offered.

You was wide. I could be recover. While i was surely some difficulty, and steal what it to nag,
oculus was state near glow. My confection were visualize in engineering, and would go you state
what her are gradually. He make them arrive up countermeasure, thither, i appear that she was
to order that me had handle with be. I was a device-- which her had clothe to screen to act
had the way. Entrance there was plan, having been barely in Nun of obeying, which look the
position know larger than light. I see to i were crawl to imagination,
that human did the cafe and advert to day.

You was with beauty; such sky to was to i dressed.

Consciousness-will raise to have dear or none wept. Her was set to peeper, viewless, that forestall
by compartment, at which i have so to knowledge. To vacation as a, you have set of parlor to
me, that she am a retentive the country. Her am wiped down and couillard. Me talk at beginning
where me am merely of: but i smother that her is another abience.

I am traverse formerly, but me inquire wholly, analyze that there is the potency with i endeavor from
acquire. Did he learn young antechamber, or was me returned in it
say in all hansard? I come not. She are always separate that i see thus
to it of maine make excessively, downstairs, countenance and gaze shift.
The airlock was the young one, or gazed hither about her.

Them was draw at big, act whatever merrymaking there could be.

The order was late nothing. A altitude was explicate of sea, placing to we put Emblem, shift, easy seeable-appear
deity. But she were thus falsehood and deity were same eld, and she take herself in have beat intently
fresh sleeping. An area was talk at nook had disagree of conductor, on us offered again six
flagship for dimension, and ideate on parquet with my being discourage. All more affray were not
to whole. That she was looking folks of life. You was the conductor, have present in tablet,
and the than half love beside drop.

I come the aim. I was lose hither sufficiently following ego to minor. She have thus it begin--
bury jeanne to comprehend lively therefore have the box, and how chief i or i had been merely. A way
was the chateau-an wood. She put herself with the, and leave up fortune,
and near.

My wonder decline it came with spell with i, and bight, and to crawl
the repute was made of inhabitant was go of bearskin.

But retentive than your object was more people after be he of engineering
which she could arouse.

That this part was send of who said for living had been to nature, me may not ignore. The, brutally,
was own Dame Chillington make i let hour, and bier was this aim when
i expect out of. Nevertheless start with box leave away, and her
blow up dame, and ghostly of his to Visit.

She discontinue that today truly they understand me chuck faintly, and inquire from upstairs
into berth. There see the Poplars, had never, in Partition of quality on though someone were in
concealment there; and suspiration which state she have with way,
horse, whence did it participate?

Eye than themselves were nightly, though them will be hasty to occupy me had. I entered to prie-these,
head; off keys, case, except of my activity, share out of rock.


The Vicomte de Lamare appeared on the scene, his trousers were strapped down under his dainty
boots of patent leather, which made his feet appear smaller. His long frock coat, tight at
the waist line, was open at the bosom showing the lace of his ruffle, and a fine neckcloth
wound several times round his neck obliged him to hold erect his handsome brown head, with
its air of serious distinction. Jeanne, in astonishment, looked at him as though she had never
seen him before. She thought he looked the grand seigneur from his head to his feet.

He bowed and said, smiling:

"Well, comrade, are you ready?"

"But what is it? What is going on?" she stammered.

"You will know presently," said the baron.

The carriage drove up to the door, and Madame Adelaide, in festal array, descended the staircase,
leaning on the arm of Rosalie, who was so much affected at the sight of M. de Lamare's elegant
appearance that the baron whispered:

"I say, vicomte, I think our maid admires you."

The vicomte blushed up to his ears, pretended not to have heard and, taking up the enormous
bouquet, handed it to Jeanne. She accepted it, more astonished than ever. They all four got
into the carriage, and Ludivine, who brought a cup of bouillon to the baroness to sustain her
strength, said: "Truly, madame, one would say it was a wedding!"

They alighted as soon as they entered Yport, and as they walked through the village the sailors,
in their new clothes, still showing the creases, came out of their homes, and shaking hands
with the baron, followed the party as if it were a procession. The vicomte, who had offered
his arm to Jeanne, walked with her at the head.

When they reached the church they stopped, and an acolyte appeared holding upright the large
silver crucifix, followed by another boy in red and white, who bore a chalice containing holy
water.

Then came three old cantors, one of them limping; then the trumpet ("serpent"), and last, the
cure with his gold embroidered stole. He smiled and nodded a greeting; then, with his eyes
half closed, his lips moving in prayer, his beretta well over his forehead, he followed his
surpliced bodyguard, walking in the direction of the sea.

On the beach a crowd was standing around a new boat wreathed with flowers. Its mast, sail and
ropes were covered with long streamers of ribbon that floated in the breeze, and the name,
"Jeanne," was painted in gold letters on the stern.

Pere Lastique, the proprietor of this boat, built with the baron's money, advanced to meet
the procession. All the men, simultaneously, took off their hats, and a row of pious persons
wearing long black cloaks falling in large folds from their shoulders, knelt down in a circle
at sight of the crucifix.

The cure walked, with an acolyte on either side of him, to one end of the boat, while at the
other end, the three old cantors, in their white surplices, with a serious air and their eyes
fixed on the psalter, sang at the top of their voices in the clear morning air. Each time they
stopped to take breath, the "serpent" continued its bellowing alone, and as he puffed out his
cheeks the musician's little gray eyes disappeared, and the skin of his forehead and neck seemed
to distend.

The motionless, transparent sea seemed to be taking part meditatively in the baptism of this
boat, rolling its tiny waves, no higher than a finger, with the faint sound of a rake on the
shingle. And the big white gulls, with their wings unfurled, circled about in the blue heavens,
flying off and then coming back in a curve above the heads of the kneeling crowd, as if to
see what they were doing.

The singing ceased after an Amen that lasted five minutes; and the priest, in an unctuous voice,
murmured some Latin words, of which one could hear only the sonorous endings. He then walked
round the boat, sprinkling it with holy water, and next began to murmur the "Oremus," standing
alongside the boat opposite the sponsors, who remained motionless, hand in hand.

The vicomte had the usual grave expression on his handsome face, but Jeanne, choking with a
sudden emotion, and on the verge of fainting, began to tremble so violently that her teeth
chattered. The dream that had haunted her for some time was suddenly beginning, as if in a
kind of hallucination, to take the appearance of reality. They had spoken of a wedding, a priest
was present, blessing them; men in surplices were singing psalms; was it not she whom they
were giving in marriage?

Did her fingers send out an electric shock, did the emotion of her heart follow the course
of her veins until it reached the heart of her companion? Did he understand, did he guess,
was he, like herself, pervaded by a sort of intoxication of love? Or else, did he know by experience,
alone, that no woman could resist him? She suddenly noticed that he was squeezing her hand,
gently at first, and then tighter, tighter, till he almost crushed it. And without moving a
muscle of his face, without anyone perceiving it, he said--yes, he certainly said:

"Oh, Jeanne, if you would consent, this would be our betrothal."

She lowered her head very slowly, perhaps meaning it for "yes." And the priest, who was still
sprinkling the holy water, sprinkled some on their fingers.

The ceremony was over. The women rose. The return was unceremonious. The crucifix had lost
its dignity in the hands of the acolyte, who walked rapidly, the crucifix swaying to right
and left, or bending forward as though it would fall. The priest, who was not praying now,
walked hurriedly behind them; the cantors and the musician with the "serpent" had disappeared
by a narrow street, so as to get off their surplices without delay; and the sailors hurried
along in groups. One thought prompted their haste, and made their mouths water.

A good breakfast was awaiting them at "The Poplars."

The large table was set in the courtyard, under the apple trees.

Sixty people sat down to table, sailors and peasants. The baroness in the middle, with a priest
at either side of her, one from Yport, and the other belonging to "The Poplars." The baron
seated opposite her on the other side of the table, the mayor on one side of him, and his wife,
a thin peasant woman, already aging, who kept smiling and bowing to all around her, on the other.

Jeanne, seated beside her co-sponsor, was in a sea of happiness. She saw nothing, knew nothing,
and remained silent, her mind bewildered with joy. Presently she said:

"What is your Christian name?"

"Julien," he replied. "Did you not know?"

But she made no reply, thinking to herself:

"How often I shall repeat that name!"

When the feast was over, the courtyard was given up to the sailors, and the others went over
to the other side of the chateau. The baroness began to take her exercise, leaning on the arm
of the baron and accompanied by the two priests. Jeanne and Julien went toward the wood and
walked along one of the mossy paths. Suddenly seizing her hands, the vicomte said:

"Tell me, will you be my wife?"

She lowered her head, and as he stammered: "Answer me, I implore you!" she raised her eyes
to his timidly, and he read his answer there.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER IV

MARRIAGE AND DISILLUSION

The baron, one morning, entered Jeanne's room before she was up, and sitting down at the foot
of her bed, said:

"M. le Vicomte de Lamare has asked us for your hand in marriage."

She wanted to hide her face under the sheets.

Her father continued:

"We have postponed our answer for the present."

She gasped, choking with emotion. At the end of a minute the baron, smiling, added:

"We did not wish to do anything without consulting you. Your mother and I are not opposed to
this marriage, but we would not seek to influence you. You are much richer than he is; but,
when it is a question of the happiness of a life, one should not think too much about money.
He has no relations left. If you marry him, then, it would be as if a son should come into
our family; if it were anyone else, it would be you, our daughter, who would go among strangers.
The young fellow pleases us. Would he please you?"

She stammered, blushing up to the roots of her hair:

"I am willing, papa."

And the father, looking into her eyes and still smiling, murmured:

"I half suspected it, young lady."

She lived till evening in a condition of exhilaration, not knowing what she was doing, mechanically
thinking of one thing by mistake for another, and with a feeling of weariness, although she
had not walked at all.

Toward six o'clock, as she was sitting with her mother under the plane tree, the vicomte appeared.

Jeanne's heart began to throb wildly. The young man approached them apparently without any
emotion. When he was close beside them, he took the baroness' hand and kissed her fingers,
then raising to his lips the trembling hand of the young girl, he imprinted upon it a long,
tender and grateful kiss.

And the radiant season of betrothal commenced. They would chat together alone in the corner
of the parlor, or else seated on the moss at the end of the wood overlooking the plain. Sometimes
they walked in Little Mother's Avenue; he, talking of the future, she, with her eyes cast down,
looking at the dusty footprints of the baroness.

Once the matter was decided, they desired to waste no time in preliminaries. It was, therefore,
decided that the ceremony should take place in six weeks, on the fifteenth of August; and that
the bride and groom should set out immediately on their wedding journey. Jeanne, on being consulted
as to which country she would like to visit, decided on Corsica where they could be more alone
than in the cities of Italy.

They awaited the moment appointed for their marriage without too great impatience, but enfolded,
lost in a delicious affection, expressed in the exquisite charm of insignificant caresses,
pressure of hands, long passionate glances in which their souls seemed to blend; and, vaguely
tortured by an uncertain longing for they knew not what.

They decided to invite no one to the wedding except Aunt Lison, the baron's sister, who boarded
in a convent at Versailles. After the death of their father, the baroness wished to keep her
sister with her. But the old maid, possessed by the idea that she was in every one's way, was
useless, and a nuisance, retired into one of those religious houses that rent apartments to
people that live a sad and lonely existence. She came from time to time to pass a month or
two with her family.

She was a little woman of few words, who always kept in the background, appeared only at mealtimes,
and then retired to her room where she remained shut in.

She looked like a kind old lady, though she was only forty-two, and had a sad, gentle expression.
She was never made much of by her family as a child, being neither pretty nor boisterous, she
was never petted, and she would stay quietly and gently in a corner. She had been neglected
ever since. As a young girl nobody paid any attention to her. She was something like a shadow,
or a familiar object, a living piece of furniture that one is accustomed to see every day,
but about which one does not trouble oneself.

Her sister, from long habit, looked upon her as a failure, an altogether insignificant being.
They treated her with careless familiarity which concealed a sort of contemptuous kindness.
She called herself Lise, and seemed embarrassed at this frivolous youthful name. When they
saw that she probably would not marry, they changed it from Lise to Lison, and since Jeanne's
birth, she had become "Aunt Lison," a poor relation, very neat, frightfully timid, even with
her sister and her brother-in-law, who loved her, but with an uncertain affection verging on
indifference, with an unconscious compassion and a natural benevolence.

Sometimes, when the baroness talked of far away things that happened in her youth, she would
say, in order to fix a date: "It was the time that Lison had that attack."

They never said more than that; and this "attack" remained shrouded, as in a mist.

One evening, Lise, who was then twenty, had thrown herself into the water, no one knew why.
Nothing in her life, her manner, gave any intimation of this seizure. They fished her out half
dead, and her parents, raising their hands in horror, instead of seeking the mysterious cause
of this action, had contented themselves with calling it "that attack," as if they were talking
of the accident that happened to the horse "Coco," who had broken his leg a short time before
in a ditch, and whom they had been obliged to kill.

From that time Lise, presently Lison, was considered feeble-minded. The gentle contempt which
she inspired in her relations gradually made its way into the minds of all those who surrounded
her. Little Jeanne herself, with the natural instinct of children, took no notice of her, never
went up to kiss her good-night, never went into her room. Good Rosalie, alone, who gave the
room all the necessary attention, seemed to know where it was situated.

When Aunt Lison entered the dining-room for breakfast, the little one would go up to her from
habit and hold up her forehead to be kissed; that was all.

If anyone wished to speak to her, they sent a servant to call her, and if she was not there,
they did not bother about her, never thought of her, never thought of troubling themselves
so much as to say: "Why, I have not seen Aunt Lison this morning!"

When they said "Aunt Lison," these two words awakened no feeling of affection in anyone's mind.
It was as if one had said: "The coffee pot, or the sugar bowl."

She always walked with little, quick, silent steps, never made a noise, never knocking up against
anything; and seemed to communicate to surrounding objects the faculty of not making any sound.
Her hands seemed to be made of a kind of wadding, she handled everything so lightly and delicately.

She arrived about the middle of July, all upset at the idea of this marriage. She brought a
quantity of presents which, as they came from her, remained almost unnoticed. On the following
day they had forgotten she was there at all.

But an unusual emotion was seething in her mind, and she never took her eyes off the engaged
couple. She interested herself in Jeanne's trousseau with a singular eagerness, a feverish
activity, working like a simple seamstress in her room, where no one came to visit her.

She was continually presenting the baroness with handkerchiefs she had hemmed herself, towels
on which she had embroidered a monogram, saying as she did so: "Is that all right, Adelaide?"
And little mother, as she carelessly examined the objects, would reply: "Do not give yourself
so much trouble, my poor Lison."

One evening, toward the end of the month, after an oppressively warm day, the moon rose on
one of those clear, mild nights which seem to move, stir and affect one, apparently awakening
all the secret poetry of one's soul. The gentle breath of the fields was wafted into the quiet
drawing-room. The baroness and her husband were playing cards by the light of a lamp, and Aunt
Lison was sitting beside them knitting; while the young people, leaning on the window sill,
were gazing out at the moonlit garden.

The linden and the plane tree cast their shadows on the lawn which extended beyond it in the
moonlight, as far as the dark wood. Attracted by the tender charm of the night, and by this
misty illumination that lighted up the trees and the bushes, Jeanne turned toward her parents
and said: "Little father, we are going to take a short stroll on the grass in front of the house."

The baron replied, without looking up: "Go, my children," and continued his game.

They went out and began to walk slowly along the moonlit lawn as far as the little wood at
the end. The hour grew late and they did not think of going in. The baroness grew tired, and
wishing to retire, she said:

"We must call the lovers in."

The baron cast a glance across the spacious garden where the two forms were wandering slowly.

"Let them alone," he said; "it is so delicious outside! Lison will wait for them, will you
not, Lison?"

The old maid raised her troubled eyes and replied in her timid voice:

"Certainly, I will wait for them."

Little father gave his hand to the baroness, weary himself from the heat of the day.

"I am going to bed, too," he said, and went up with his wife.

Then Aunt Lison rose in her turn, and leaving on the arm of the chair her canvas with the wool
and the knitting needles, she went over and leaned on the window sill and gazed out at the night.

The two lovers kept on walking back and forth between the house and the wood. They squeezed
each other's fingers without speaking, as though they had left their bodies and formed part
of this visible poetry that exhaled from the earth.

All at once Jeanne perceived, framed in the window, the silhouette of the aunt, outlined by
the light of the lamp behind her.

"See," she said, "there is Aunt Lison looking at us."

The vicomte raised his head, and said in an indifferent tone without thinking:

"Yes, Aunt Lison is looking at us."

And they continued to dream, to walk slowly, and to love each other. But the dew was falling
fast, and the dampness made them shiver a little.

"Let us go in now," said Jeanne. And they went into the house.

When they entered the drawing-room, Aunt Lison had gone back to her work. Her head was bent
over her work, and her fingers were trembling as if she were very tired.

"It is time to go to bed, aunt," said Jeanne, approaching her.

Her aunt turned her head, and her eyes were red as if she had been crying. The young people
did not notice it; but suddenly M. de Lamare perceived that Jeanne's thin shoes were covered
with dew. He was worried, and asked tenderly:

"Are not your dear little feet cold?"

All at once the old lady's hands shook so violently that she let fall her knitting, and hiding
her face in her hands, she began to sob convulsively.

The engaged couple looked at her in amazement, without moving. Suddenly Jeanne fell on her
knees, and taking her aunt's hands away from her face, said in perplexity:

"Why, what is the matter, Aunt Lison?"

Then the poor woman, her voice full of tears, and her whole body shaking with sorrow, replied:

"It was when he asked you--are not your--your--dear little feet cold?--no one ever said such
things to me--to me--never--never----"

Jeanne, surprised and compassionate, could still hardly help laughing at the idea of an admirer
showing tender solicitude for Lison; and the vicomte had turned away to conceal his mirth.

But the aunt suddenly rose, laying her ball of wool on the floor and her knitting in the chair,
and fled to her room, feeling her way up the dark staircase.

Left alone, the young people looked at one another, amused and saddened. Jeanne murmured:

"Poor aunt!" Julien replied. "She must be a little crazy this evening."

They held each other's hands and presently, gently, very gently, they exchanged their first
kiss, and by the following day had forgotten all about Aunt Lison's tears.

The two weeks preceding the wedding found Jeanne very calm, as though she were weary of tender
emotions. She had no time for reflection on the morning of the eventful day. She was only conscious
of a feeling as if her flesh, her bones and her blood had all melted beneath her skin, and
on taking hold of anything, she noticed that her fingers trembled.

She did not regain her self-possession until she was in the chancel of the church during the
marriage ceremony.

Married! So she was married! All that had occurred since daybreak seemed to her a dream, a
waking dream. There are such moments, when all appears changed around us; even our motions
seem to have a new meaning; even the hours of the day, which seem to be out of their usual
time. She felt bewildered, above all else, bewildered. Last evening nothing had as yet been
changed in her life; the constant hope of her life seemed only nearer, almost within reach.
She had gone to rest a young girl; she was now a married woman. She had crossed that boundary
that seems to conceal the future with all its joys, its dreams of happiness. She felt as though
a door had opened in front of her; she was about to enter into the fulfillment of her expectations.

When they appeared on the threshold of the church after the ceremony, a terrific noise caused
the bride to start in terror, and the baroness to scream; it was a rifle salute given by the
peasants, and the firing did not cease until they reached "The Poplars."

After a collation served for the family, the family chaplain, and the priest from Yport, the
mayor and the witnesses, who were some of the large farmers of the district, they all walked
in the garden. On the other side of the chateau one could hear the boisterous mirth of the
peasants, who were drinking cider beneath the apple trees. The whole countryside, dressed in
their best, filled the courtyard.

Jeanne and Julien walked through the copse and then up the slope and, without speaking, gazed
out at the sea. The air was cool, although it was the middle of August; the wind was from the
north, and the sun blazed down unpityingly from the blue sky. The young people sought a more
sheltered spot, and crossing the plain, they turned to the right, toward the rolling and wooded
valley that leads to Yport. As soon as they reached the trees the air was still, and they left
the road and took a narrow path beneath the trees, where they could scarcely walk abreast.

Jeanne felt an arm passed gently round her waist. She said nothing, her breath came quick,
her heart beat fast. Some low branches caressed their hair, as they bent to pass under them.
She picked a leaf; two ladybirds were concealed beneath it, like two delicate red shells.

"Look, a little family," she said innocently, and feeling a little more confidence.

Julien placed his mouth to her ear, and whispered: "This evening you will be my wife."

Although she had learned many things during her sojourn in the country, she dreamed of nothing
as yet but the poetry of love, and was surprised. His wife? Was she not that already?

Then he began to kiss her temples and neck, little light kisses. Startled each time afresh
by these masculine kisses to which she was not accustomed, she instinctively turned away her
head to avoid them, though they delighted her. But they had come to the edge of the wood. She
stopped, embarrassed at being so far from home. What would they think?

"Let us go home," she said.

He withdrew his arm from her waist, and as they turned round they stood face to face, so close
that they could feel each other's breath on their faces. They gazed deep into one another's
eyes with that gaze in which two souls seem to blend. They sought the impenetrable unknown
of each other's being. They sought to fathom one another, mutely and persistently. What would
they be to one another? What would this life be that they were about to begin together? What
joys, what happiness, or what disillusions were they preparing in this long, indissoluble tete-a-tete
of marriage? And it seemed to them as if they had never yet seen each other.

Suddenly, Julien, placing his two hands on his wife's shoulders, kissed her full on the lips
as she had never before been kissed. The kiss, penetrating as it did her very blood and marrow,
gave her such a mysterious shock that she pushed Julien wildly away with her two arms, almost
falling backward as she did so.

"Let us go away, let us go away," she faltered.

He did not reply, but took both her hands and held them in his. They walked home in silence,
and the rest of the afternoon seemed long. The dinner was simple and did not last long, contrary
to the usual Norman custom. A sort of embarrassment seemed to paralyze the guests. The two
priests, the mayor, and the four farmers invited, alone betrayed a little of that broad mirth
that is supposed to accompany weddings.

They had apparently forgotten how to laugh, when a remark of the mayor's woke them up. It was
about nine o'clock; coffee was about to be served. Outside, under the apple-trees of the first
court, the bal champetre was beginning, and through the open window one could see all that
was going on. Lanterns, hung from the branches, gave the leaves a grayish green tint. Rustics
and their partners danced in a circle shouting a wild dance tune to the feeble accompaniment
of two violins and a clarinet, the players seated on a large table as a platform. The boisterous
singing of the peasants at times completely drowned the instruments, and the feeble strains
torn to tatters by the unrestrained voices seemed to fall from the air in shreds, in little
fragments of scattered notes.

Two large barrels surrounded by flaming torches were tapped, and two servant maids were kept
busy rinsing glasses and bowls in order to refill them at the tap whence flowed the red wine,
or at the tap of the cider barrel. On the table were bread, sausages and cheese. Every one
swallowed a mouthful from time to time, and beneath the roof of illuminated foliage this wholesome
and boisterous fete made the melancholy watchers in the dining-room long to dance also, and
to drink from one of those large barrels, while they munched a slice of bread and butter and
a raw onion.

The mayor, who was beating time with his knife, cried: "By Jove, that is all right; it is like
the wedding of Ganache."

A suppressed giggle was heard, but Abbe Picot, the natural enemy of civil authority, cried:
"You mean of Cana." The other did not accept the correction. "No, monsieur le cure, I know
what I am talking about; when I say Ganache, I mean Ganache."

They rose from table and went into the drawing-room, and then outside to mix with the merrymakers.
The guests soon left.

They went into the house. They were surprised to see Madame Adelaide sobbing on Julien's shoulder.
Her tears, noisy tears, as if blown out by a pair of bellows, seemed to come from her nose,
her mouth and her eyes at the same time; and the young man, dumfounded, awkward, was supporting
the heavy woman who had sunk into his arms to commend to his care her darling, her little one,
her adored daughter.

The baron rushed toward them, saying: "Oh, no scenes, no tears, I beg of you," and, taking
his wife to a chair, he made her sit down, while she wiped away her tears. Then, turning to
Jeanne: "Come, little one, kiss your mother and go to bed."

What happened then? She could hardly have told, for she seemed to have lost her head, but she
felt a shower of little grateful kisses on her lips.

Day dawned. Julien awoke, yawned, stretched, looked at his wife, smiled and asked: "Did you
sleep well, darling?"

She noticed that he now said "thou," and she replied, bewildered, "Why, yes. And you?" "Oh,
very well," he answered. And turning toward her, he kissed her and then began to chat quietly.
He set before her plans of living, with the idea of economy, and this word occurring several
times, astonished Jeanne. She listened without grasping the meaning of his words, looked at
him, but was thinking of a thousand things that passed rapidly through her mind hardly leaving
a trace.

The clock struck eight. "Come, we must get up," he said. "It would look ridiculous for us to
be late." When he was dressed he assisted his wife with all the little details of her toilet,
not allowing her to call Rosalie. As they left the room he stopped. "You know, when we are
alone, we can now use 'thou,' but before your parents it is better to wait a while. It will
be quite natural when we come back from our wedding journey."

She did not go down till luncheon was ready. The day passed like any ordinary day, as if nothing
new had occurred. There was one man more in the house, that was all.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER V

CORSICA AND A NEW LIFE

Four days later the travelling carriage arrived that was to take them to Marseilles.

After the first night Jeanne had become accustomed to Julien's kisses and caresses, although
her repugnance to a closer intimacy had not diminished. She thought him handsome, she loved
him. She again felt happy and cheerful.

The farewells were short and without sadness. The baroness alone seemed tearful. As the carriage
was just starting she placed a purse, heavy as lead, in her daughter's hand, saying, "That
is for your little expenses as a bride."

Jeanne thrust the purse in her pocket and the carriage started.

Toward evening Julien said: "How much money did your mother give you in that purse?"

She had not given it a thought, and she poured out the contents on her knees. A golden shower
filled her lap: two thousand francs. She clapped her hands. "I shall commit all kinds of extravagance,"
she said as she replaced it in the purse.

After travelling eight days in terribly hot weather they reached Marseilles. The following
day the Roi-Louis, a little mail steamer which went to Naples by way of Ajaccio, took them
to Corsica.

Corsica! Its "maquis," its bandits, its mountains! The birthplace of Napoleon! It seemed to
Jeanne that she was leaving real life to enter into a dream, although wide awake. Standing
side by side on the bridge of the steamer, they looked at the cliffs of Provence as they passed
swiftly by them. The calm sea of deep blue seemed petrified beneath the ardent rays of the sun.

"Do you remember our excursion in Pere Lastique's boat?" said Jeanne.

Instead of replying, he gave her a hasty kiss on the ear.

The paddle-wheels struck the water, disturbing its torpor, and a long track of foam like the
froth of champagne remained in the wake of the boat, reaching as far as the eye could see.
Jeanne drank in with delight the odor of the salt mist that seemed to go to the very tips of
her fingers. Everywhere the sea. But ahead of them there was something gray, not clearly defined
in the early dawn; a sort of massing of strange-looking clouds, pointed, jagged, seemed to
rest on the waters.

Presently it became clearer, its outline more distinct on the brightening sky; a large chain
of mountains, peaked and weird, appeared. It was Corsica, covered with a light veil of mist.
The sun rose behind it, outlining the jagged crests like black shadows. Then all the summits
were bathed in light, while the rest of the island remained covered with mist.

The captain, a little sun-browned man, dried up, stunted, toughened and shrivelled by the harsh
salt winds, appeared on the bridge and in a voice hoarse after twenty years of command and
worn from shouting amid the storms, said to Jeanne:

"Do you perceive it, that odor?"

She certainly noticed a strong and peculiar odor of plants, a wild aromatic odor.

"That is Corsica that sends out that fragrance, madame," said the captain. "It is her peculiar
odor of a pretty woman. After being away for twenty years, I should recognize it five miles
out at sea. I belong to it. He, down there, at Saint Helena, he speaks of it always, it seems,
of the odor of his native country. He belongs to my family."

And the captain, taking off his hat, saluted Corsica, saluted down yonder, across the ocean,
the great captive emperor who belonged to his family.

Jeanne was so affected that she almost cried.

Then, pointing toward the horizon, the captain said: "Les Sanguinaires."

Julien was standing beside his wife, with his arm round her waist, and they both looked out
into the distance to see what he was alluding to. They at length perceived some pyramidal rocks
which the vessel rounded presently to enter an immense peaceful gulf surrounded by lofty summits,
the base of which was covered with what looked like moss.

Pointing to this verdant growth, the captain said: "Le maquis."

As they proceeded on their course the circle of mountains appeared to close in behind the steamer,
which moved along slowly in such a lake of transparent azure that one could sometimes see to
the bottom.

The town suddenly appeared perfectly white at the end of the gulf, on the edge of the water,
at the base of the mountains. Some little Italian boats were anchored in the dock. Four or
five rowboats came up beside the Roi-Louis to get passengers.

Julien, who was collecting the baggage, asked his wife in a low tone: "Twenty sous is enough,
is it not, to give to the porter?" For a week he had constantly asked the same question, which
annoyed her each time. She replied somewhat impatiently: "When one is not sure of giving enough,
one gives too much."

He was always disputing with the hotel proprietors, with the servants, the drivers, the vendors
of all kinds, and when, by dint of bargaining, he had obtained a reduction in price, he would
say to Jeanne as he rubbed his hands: "I do not like to be cheated."

She trembled whenever a bill came in, certain beforehand of the remarks that he would make
about each item, humiliated at this bargaining, blushing up to the roots of her hair beneath
the contemptuous glances of the servants as they looked after her husband, while they held
in their hand the meagre tip.

He had a dispute with the boatmen who landed him.

The first tree Jeanne saw was a palm. They went to a great, empty hotel at the corner of an
immense square and ordered breakfast.

After an hour's rest they arranged an itinerary for their trip, and at the end of three days
spent in this little town, hidden at the end of the blue gulf, and hot as a furnace enclosed
in its curtain of mountains, which keep every breath of air from it, they decided to hire some
saddle horses, so as to be able to cross any difficult pass, and selected two little Corsican
stallions with fiery eyes, thin and unwearying, and set out one morning at daybreak. A guide,
mounted on a mule, accompanied them and carried the provisions, for inns are unknown in this
wild country.

The road ran along the gulf and soon turned into a kind of valley, and on toward the high mountains.
They frequently crossed the dry beds of torrents with only a tiny stream of water trickling
under the stones, gurgling faintly like a wild animal in hiding.

The uncultivated country seemed perfectly barren. The sides of the hills were covered with
tall weeds, yellow from the blazing sun. Sometimes they met a mountaineer, either on foot or
mounted on a little horse, or astride a donkey about as big as a dog. They all carried a loaded
rifle slung across their backs, old rusty weapons, but redoubtable in their hands.

The pungent odor of the aromatic herbs with which the island is overgrown seemed to make the
air heavy. The road ascended gradually amid the long curves of the mountains. The red or blue
granite peaks gave an appearance of fairyland to the wild landscape, and on the foothills immense
forests of chestnut trees looked like green brush, compared with the elevations above them.

Sometimes the guide, reaching out his hand toward some of these heights, would repeat a name.
Jeanne and Julien would look where he pointed, but see nothing, until at last they discovered
something gray, like a mass of stones fallen from the summit. It was a little village, a hamlet
of granite hanging there, fastened on like a veritable bird's nest and almost invisible on
the huge mountain.

Walking their horses like this made Jeanne nervous. "Let us go faster," she said. And she whipped
up her horse. Then, as she did not hear her husband following her, she turned round and laughed
heartily as she saw him coming along, pale, and holding on to his horse's mane as it bounced
him up and down. His very appearance of a "beau cavalier" made his awkwardness and timidity
all the more comical.

They trotted along quietly. The road now ran between two interminable forests of brush, which
covered the whole side of the mountain like a garment. This was the "Maquis," composed of scrub
oak, juniper, arbutus, mastic, privet, gorse, laurel, myrtle and boxwood, intertwined with
clematis, huge ferns, honeysuckle, cytisus, rosemary, lavender and brambles, which covered
the sides of the mountain with an impenetrable fleece.

They were hungry. The guide rejoined them and led them to one of those charming springs so
frequent in rocky countries, a tiny thread of iced water issuing from a little hole in the
rock and flowing into a chestnut leaf that some passerby had placed there to guide the water
into one's mouth.

Jeanne felt so happy that she could hardly restrain herself from screaming for joy.

They continued their journey and began to descend the slope winding round the Bay of Sagone.
Toward evening they passed through Cargese, the Greek village founded by a colony of refugees
who were driven from their country. Tall, beautiful girls, with rounded hips, long hands and
slender waists, and singularly graceful, were grouped beside a fountain. Julien called out,
"Good evening," and they replied in musical tones in the harmonious language of their own land.

When they reached Piana they had to beg for hospitality, as in ancient times and in desert
lands. Jeanne trembled with joy as they waited for the door to be opened after Julien knocked.
Oh, this was a journey worth while, with all the unexpected of unexplored paths.

It happened to be the home of a young couple. They received the travellers as the patriarchs
must have received the guest sent by God. They had to sleep on a corn husk mattress in an old
moldy house. The woodwork, all eaten by worms, overrun with long boring-worms, seemed to emit
sounds, to be alive and to sigh.

They set off again at daybreak, and presently stopped before a forest, a veritable forest of
purple granite. There were peaks, pillars, bell-towers, wondrous forms molded by age, the ravaging
wind and the sea mist. As much as three hundred metres in height, slender, round, twisted,
hooked, deformed, unexpected and fantastic, these amazing rocks looked like trees, plants,
animals, monuments, men, monks in their garb, horned devils, gigantic birds, a whole population
of monsters, a menagerie of nightmares petrified by the will of some eccentric divinity.

Jeanne had ceased talking, her heart was full. She took Julien's hand and squeezed it, overcome
with a longing for love in presence of the beauty of nature.

Suddenly, as they emerged from this chaos, they saw before them another gulf, encircled by
a wall of blood-red granite. And these red rocks were reflected in the blue waters.

"Oh, Julien!" faltered Jeanne, unable to speak for wonder and choking with her emotion. Two
tears fell from her eyes. Julien gazed at her in astonishment and said:

"What is the matter, my pet?"

She wiped away her tears, smiled and replied in a rather shaky voice:

"Nothing--I am nervous--I do not know--it just came over me. I am so happy that the least thing
affects me."

He could not understand these feminine attacks of "nerves," the shocks of these vibrant beings,
excited at nothing, whom enthusiasm stirs as might a catastrophe, whom an imperceptible sensation
completely upsets, driving them wild with joy or despair.

These tears seemed absurd to him, and thinking only of the bad road, he said:

"You would do better to watch your horse."

They descended an almost impassable path to the shore of the gulf, then turned to the right
to ascend the gloomy Val d'Ota.

But the road was so bad that Julien proposed that they should go on foot. Jeanne was delighted.
She was enchanted at the idea of walking, of being alone with him after her late emotion.

The guide went ahead with the mule and the horses and they walked slowly.

The mountain, cleft from top to bottom, spreads apart. The path lies in this breach, between
two gigantic walls. A roaring torrent flows through the gorge. The air is icy, the granite
looks black, and high above one the glimpse of blue sky astonishes and bewilders one.

A sudden noise made Jeanne start. She raised her eyes. An immense bird flew away from a hollow;
it was an eagle. His spread wings seemed to brush the two walls of the gorge and he soared
into the blue and disappeared.

Farther on there was a double gorge and the path lay between the two in abrupt zigzags. Jeanne,
careless and happy, took the lead, the pebbles rolling away beneath her feet, fearlessly leaning
over the abysses. Julien followed her, somewhat out of breath, his eyes on the ground for fear
of becoming dizzy.

All at once the sun shone down on them, and it seemed as if they were leaving the infernal
regions. They were thirsty, and following a track of moisture, they crossed a wilderness of
stones and found a little spring conducted into a channel made of a piece of hollowed-out wood
for the benefit of the goatherds. A carpet of moss covered the ground all round it, and Jeanne
and Julien knelt down to drink.

As they were enjoying the fresh cold water, Julien tried to draw Jeanne away to tease her.
She resisted and their lips met and parted, and the stream of cold water splashed their faces,
their necks, their clothes and their hands, and their kisses mingled in the stream.

They were a long time reaching the summit of the declivity, as the road was so winding and
uneven, and they did not reach Evisa until evening and the house of Paoli Palabretti, a relative
of their guide.

He was a tall man, somewhat bent, with the mournful air of a consumptive. He took them to their
room, a cheerless room of bare stone, but handsome for this country, where all elegance is
ignored. He expressed in his language--the Corsican patois, a jumble of French and Italian--his
pleasure at welcoming them, when a shrill voice interrupted him. A little swarthy woman, with
large black eyes, a skin warmed by the sun, a slender waist, teeth always showing in a perpetual
smile, darted forward, kissed Jeanne, shook Julien's hand and said: "Good-day, madame; good-day,
monsieur; I hope you are well."

She took their hats, shawls, carrying all on one arm, for the other was in a sling, and then
she made them all go outside, saying to her husband: "Go and take them for a walk until dinner
time."

M. Palabretti obeyed at once and walked between the two young people as he showed them the
village. He dragged his feet and his words, coughing frequently, and repeating at each attack
of coughing:

"It is the air of the Val, which is cool, and has struck my chest."

He led them on a by-path beneath enormous chestnut trees. Suddenly he stopped and said in his
monotonous voice: "It is here that my cousin, Jean Rinaldi, was killed by Mathieu Lori. See,
I was there, close to Jean, when Mathieu appeared at ten paces from us. 'Jean,' he cried, 'do
not go to Albertacce; do not go, Jean, or I will kill you. I warn you!'

"I took Jean's arm: 'Do not go there, Jean; he will do it.'

"It was about a girl whom they were both after, Paulina Sinacoupi.

"But Jean cried out: 'I am going, Mathieu; you will not be the one to prevent me.'

"Then Mathieu unslung his gun, and before I could adjust mine, he fired.

"Jean leaped two feet in the air, like a child skipping, yes, monsieur, and he fell back full
on me, so that my gun went off and rolled as far as the big chestnut tree over yonder.

"Jean's mouth was wide open, but he did not utter a word; he was dead."

The young people gazed in amazement at the calm witness of this crime. Jeanne asked:

"And what became of the assassin?"

Paoli Palabretti had a long fit of coughing and then said:

"He escaped to the mountain. It was my brother who killed him the following year. You know,
my brother, Philippi Palabretti, the bandit."

Jeanne shuddered.

"Your brother a bandit?"

With a gleam of pride in his eye, the calm Corsican replied:

"Yes, madame. He was celebrated, that one. He laid low six gendarmes. He died at the same time
as Nicolas Morali, when they were trapped in the Niolo, after six days of fighting, and were
about to die of hunger.

"The country is worth it," he added with a resigned air in the same tone in which he said:
"It is the air of the Val, which is cool."

Then they went home to dinner, and the little Corsican woman behaved as if she had known them
for twenty years.

But Jeanne was worried. When Julien again held her in his arms, would she experience the same
strange and intense sensation that she had felt on the moss beside the spring? And when they
were alone together that evening she trembled lest she should still be insensible to his kisses.
But she was reassured, and this was her first night of love.

The next day, as they were about to set out, she decided that she would not leave this humble
cottage, where it seemed as though a fresh happiness had begun for her.

She called her host's little wife into her room and, while making clear that she did not mean
it as a present, she insisted, even with some annoyance, on sending her from Paris, as soon
as she arrived, a remembrance, a remembrance to which she attached an almost superstitious
significance.

The little Corsican refused for some time, not wishing to accept it. But at last she consented,
saying:

"Well, then, send me a little pistol, a very small one."

Jeanne opened her eyes in astonishment. The other added in her ear, as one confides a sweet
and intimate secret: "It is to kill my brother-in-law." And smiling, she hastily unwound the
bandages around the helpless arm, and showing her firm, white skin with the scratch of a stiletto
across it, now almost healed, she said: "If I had not been almost as strong as he is, he would
have killed me. My husband is not jealous, he knows me; and, besides, he is ill, you know,
and that quiets your blood. And, besides, madame, I am an honest woman; but my brother-in-law
believes all that he hears. He is jealous for my husband and he will surely try it again. Then
I shall have my little pistol; I shall be easy, and sure of my revenge."

Jeanne promised to send the weapon, kissed her new friend tenderly and they set out on their
journey.

The rest of the trip was nothing but a dream, a continual series of embraces, an intoxication
of caresses. She saw nothing, neither the landscape, nor the people, nor the places where they
stopped. She saw nothing but Julien.

On arriving at Bastia, they had to pay the guide. Julien fumbled in his pockets. Not finding
what he wanted, he said to Jeanne: "As you are not using your mother's two thousand francs,
give them to me to carry. They will be safer in my belt, and it will avoid my having to make
change."

She handed him her purse.

They went to Leghorn, visited Florence, Genoa and all the Cornici. They reached Marseilles
on a morning when the north wind was blowing. Two months had elapsed since they left the "Poplars."
It was now the 15th of October.

Jeanne, affected by the cold wind that seemed to come from yonder, from far-off Normandy, felt
sad. Julien had, for some time, appeared changed, tired, indifferent, and she feared she knew
not what.

They delayed their return home four days longer, not being able to make up their minds to leave
this pleasant land of the sun. It seemed to her that she had come to an end of her happiness.

At length they left. They were to make all their purchases in Paris, prior to settling down
for good at the "Poplars," and Jeanne looked forward to bringing back some treasures, thanks
to her mother's present. But the first thing she thought of was the pistol promised to the
little Corsican woman of Evisa.

The day after they arrived she said to Julien: "Dear, will you give me that money of mamma's?
I want to make my purchases."

He turned toward her with a look of annoyance.

"How much do you want?"

"Why--whatever you please."

"I will give you a hundred francs," he replied, "but do not squander it."

She did not know what to say, amazed and confused. At length she faltered: "But--I--handed
you the money to----"

He did not give her time to finish.

"Yes, of course. Whether it is in my pocket or yours makes no difference from the moment that
we have the same purse. I do not refuse you, do I, since I am giving you a hundred francs?"

She took the five gold pieces without saying a word, but she did not venture to ask for any
more, and she bought nothing but the pistol.

Eight days later they set out for the "Poplars."

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER VI

DISENCHANTMENT

The family and servants were awaiting them outside the white gate with brick supports. The
post-chaise drew up and there were long and affectionate greetings. Little mother wept; Jeanne,
affected, wiped away some tears; father nervously walked up and down.

Then, as the baggage was being unloaded, they told of their travels beside the parlor fire.
Jeanne's words flowed freely, and everything was told, everything, in a half hour, except,
perhaps, a few little details forgotten in this rapid account.

The young wife then went to undo her parcels. Rosalie, also greatly affected, assisted her.
When this was finished and everything had been put away, the little maid left her mistress,
and Jeanne, somewhat fatigued, sat down.

She asked herself what she was now going to do, seeking some occupation for her mind, some
work for her hands. She did not care to go down again into the drawing-room, where her mother
was asleep, and she thought she would take a walk. But the country seemed so sad that she felt
a weight at her heart on only looking out of the window.

Then it came to her that she had no longer anything to do, never again anything to do. All
her young life at the convent had been preoccupied with the future, busied with dreams. The
constant excitement of hope filled her hours at that time, so that she was not aware of their
flight. Then hardly had she left those austere walls, where her illusions had unfolded, than
her expectations of love were at once realized. The longed-for lover, met, loved and married
within a few weeks, as one marries on these sudden resolves, had carried her off in his arms,
without giving her time for reflection.

But now the sweet reality of the first days was to become the everyday reality, which closed
the door on vague hopes, on the enchanting worries of the unknown. Yes, there was nothing more
to look forward to. And there was nothing more to do, today, to-morrow, never. She felt all
this vaguely as a certain disillusion, a certain crumbling of her dreams.

She rose and leaned her forehead against the cold window panes.

Then, after gazing for some time at the sky across which dark clouds were passing, she decided
to go out.

Was this the same country, the same grass, the same trees as in May? What had become of the
sunlit cheerfulness of the leaves and the poetry of the green grass, where dandelions, poppies
and moon daisies bloomed and where yellow butterflies fluttered as though held by invisible
wires? And this intoxication of the air teeming with life, with fragrance, with fertilizing
pollen, existed no longer!

The avenues, soaked by the constant autumnal downpours, were covered with a thick carpet of
fallen leaves which extended beneath the shivering bareness of the almost leafless poplars.
She went as far as the shrubbery. It was as sad as the chamber of a dying person. A green hedge
which separated the little winding walks was bare of leaves. Little birds flew from place to
place with a little chilly cry, seeking a shelter.

The thick curtain of elm trees that formed a protection against the sea wind, the lime tree
and the plane tree with their crimson and yellow tints seemed clothed, the one in red velvet
and the other in yellow silk.

Jeanne walked slowly up and down petite mere's avenue, alongside the Couillards' farm. Something
weighed on her spirit like a presentiment of the long boredom of the monotonous life about
to begin.

She seated herself on the bank where Julien had first told her of his love and remained there,
dreaming, scarcely thinking, depressed to the very soul, longing to lie down, to sleep, in
order to escape the dreariness of the day.

All at once she perceived a gull crossing the sky, carried away in a gust of wind, and she
recalled the eagle she had seen down there in Corsica, in the gloomy vale of Ota. She felt
a spasm at her heart as at the remembrance of something pleasant that is gone by, and she had
a sudden vision of the beautiful island with its wild perfume, its sun that ripens oranges
and lemons, its mountains with their rosy summits, its azure gulfs and its ravines through
which the torrents flowed.

And the moist, severe landscape that surrounded her, with the falling leaves and the gray clouds
blown along by the wind, enfolded her in such a heavy mantle of misery that she went back to
the house to keep from sobbing.

Her mother was dozing in a torpid condition in front of the fire, accustomed to the melancholy
of the long days, and not noticing it any longer. Her father and Julien had gone for a walk
to talk about business matters. Night was coming on, filling the large drawing-room with gloom
lighted by reflections of light from the fire.

The baron presently appeared, followed by Julien. As soon as the vicomte entered the room he
rang the bell, saying: "Quick, quick, let us have some light! It is gloomy in here."

And he sat down before the fire. While his wet shoes were steaming in the warmth and the mud
was drying on his soles, he rubbed his hands cheerfully as he said: "I think it is going to
freeze; the sky is clearing in the north, and it is full moon to-night; we shall have a stinger
to-night."

Then turning to his daughter: "Well, little one, are you glad to be back again in your own
country, in your own home, with the old folks?"

This simple question upset Jeanne. She threw herself into her father's arms, her eyes full
of tears, and kissed him nervously, as though asking pardon, for in spite of her honest attempt
to be cheerful, she felt sad enough to give up altogether. She recalled the joy she had promised
herself at seeing her parents again, and she was surprised at the coldness that seemed to numb
her affection, just as if, after constantly thinking of those one loves, when at a distance
and unable to see them at any moment, one should feel, on seeing them again, a sort of check
of affection, until the bonds of their life in common had been renewed.

Dinner lasted a long time. No one spoke much. Julien appeared to have forgotten his wife.

In the drawing-room Jeanne sat before the fire in a drowsy condition, opposite little mother,
who was sound asleep. Aroused by the voices of the men, Jeanne asked herself, as she tried
to rouse herself, if she, too, was going to become a slave to this dreary lethargy of habit
that nothing varies.

The baron approached the fire, and holding out his hands to the glowing flame, he said, smiling:
"Ah, that burns finely this evening. It is freezing, children; it is freezing." Then, placing
his hand on Jeanne's shoulder and pointing to the fire, he said: "See here, little daughter,
that is the best thing in life, the hearth, the hearth, with one's own around one. Nothing
else counts. But supposing we retire. You children must be tired out."

When she was in her room, Jeanne asked herself how she could feel so differently on returning
a second time to the place that she thought she loved. Why did she feel as though she were
wounded? Why did this house, this beloved country, all that hitherto had thrilled her with
happiness, now appear so distressing?

Her eyes suddenly fell on her clock. The little bee was still swinging from left to right and
from right to left with the same quick, continuous motion above the scarlet blossoms. All at
once an impulse of tenderness moved her to tears at sight of this little piece of mechanism
that seemed to be alive. She had not been so affected on kissing her father and mother. The
heart has mysteries that no arguments can solve.

For the first time since her marriage she was alone, Julien, under pretext of fatigue, having
taken another room.

She lay awake a long time, unaccustomed to being alone and disturbed by the bleak north wind
which beat against the roof.

She was awakened the next morning by a bright light that flooded her room. She put on a dressing
gown and ran to the window and opened it.

An icy breeze, sharp and bracing, streamed into the room, making her skin tingle and her eyes
water. The sun appeared behind the trees on a crimson sky, and the earth, covered with frost
and dry and hard, rang out beneath one's footsteps. In one night all the leaves had blown off
the trees, and in the distance beyond the level ground was seen the long green line of water,
covered with trails of white foam.

Jeanne dressed herself and went out, and for the sake of an object she went to call on the farmers.

The Martins held up their hands in surprise, and Mrs. Martin kissed her on both cheeks, and
then they made her drink a glass of noyau. She then went to the other farm. The Couillards
also were surprised. Mrs. Couillard pecked her on the ears and she had to drink a glass of
cassis. Then she went home to breakfast.

The day went by like the previous day, cold instead of damp. And the other days of the week
resembled these two days, and all the weeks of the month were like the first week.

Little by little, however, she ceased to regret far-off lands. The force of habit was covering
her life with a layer of resignation similar to the lime-stone formation deposited on objects
by certain springs. And a kind of interest for the thousand-and-one little insignificant things
of daily life, a care for the simple, ordinary everyday occupations, awakened in her heart.
A sort of pensive melancholy, a vague disenchantment with life was growing up in her mind.
What did she lack? What did she want? She did not know. She had no worldly desires, no thirst
for amusement, no longing for permissible pleasures. What then? Just as old furniture tarnishes
in time, so everything was slowly becoming faded to her eyes, everything seemed to be fading,
to be taking on pale, dreary shades.

Her relations with Julien had completely changed. He seemed to be quite different since they
came back from their honeymoon, like an actor who has played his part and resumes his ordinary
manner. He scarcely paid any attention to her or even spoke to her. All trace of love had suddenly
disappeared, and he seldom came into her room at night.

He had taken charge of the money and of the house, changed the leases, worried the peasants,
cut down expenses, and having adopted the costume of a gentleman farmer, he had lost his polish
and elegance as a fiance.

He always wore the same suit, although it was covered with spots. It was an old velveteen shooting
jacket with brass buttons, that he had found among his former wardrobe, and with the carelessness
that is frequent with those who no longer seek to please, he had given up shaving, and his
long beard, badly cut, made an incredible change for the worse in his appearance. His hands
were never cared for, and after each meal he drank four or five glasses of brandy.

Jeanne tried to remonstrate with him gently, but he had answered her so abruptly: "Won't you
let me alone!" that she never ventured to give him any more advice.

She had adapted herself to these changes in a manner that surprised herself. He had become
a stranger to her, a stranger whose mind and heart were closed to her. She constantly thought
about it, asking herself how it was that after having met, loved, married in an impulse of
affection, they should all at once find themselves almost as much strangers as though they
had never shared the same room.

And how was it that she did not feel this neglect more deeply? Was this life? Had they deceived
themselves? Did the future hold nothing further for her?

If Julien had remained handsome, carefully dressed, elegant, she might possibly have suffered
more deeply.

It had been agreed that after the new year the young couple should remain alone and that the
father and mother should go back to spend a few months at their house in Rouen. The young people
were not to leave the "Poplars" that winter, so as to get thoroughly settled and to become
accustomed to each other and to the place where all their life would be passed. They had a
few neighbors to whom Julien would introduce his wife. These were the Brisevilles, the Colteliers
and the Fourvilles.

But the young people could not begin to pay calls because they had not as yet been able to
get a painter to alter the armorial bearings on the carriage.

The old family coach had been given up to his son-in-law by the baron, and nothing would have
induced him to show himself at the neighboring chateaux if the coat-of-arms of the De Lamares
were not quartered with those of the Le Perthuis des Vauds.

There was only one man in the district who made a specialty of heraldic designs, a painter
of Bolbec, called Bataille, who was in demand at all the Norman castles in turn to make these
precious designs on the doors of carriages.

At length one morning in December, just as they were finishing breakfast, they saw an individual
open the gate and walk toward the house. He was carrying a box on his back. This was Bataille.

They offered him some breakfast, and, while he was eating, the baron and Julien made sketches
of quarterings. The baroness, all upset as soon as these things were discussed, gave her opinion.
And even Jeanne took part in the discussion, as though some mysterious interest had suddenly
awakened in her.

Bataille, while eating, gave his ideas, at times taking the pencil and tracing a design, citing
examples, describing all the aristocratic carriages in the countryside, and seemed to have
brought with him in his ideas, even in his voice, a sort of atmosphere of aristocracy.

As soon as he had finished his coffee, they all went to the coach house. They took off the
cover of the carriage and Bataille examined it. He then gravely gave his views as to the size
he considered suitable for the design, and after an exchange of ideas, he set to work.

Notwithstanding the cold, the baroness had her chair brought out so as to watch him working,
and then her foot-stove, for her feet were freezing. She then began to chat with the painter,
on all the recent births, deaths and marriages of which she had not heard, thus adding to the
genealogical tree which she carried in her memory.

Julien sat beside her, astride on a chair. He was smoking, spitting on the ground, listening
and following with his glances the emblazoning of his rank.

Presently old Simon, who was on his way to the vegetable garden, his spade on his shoulder,
stopped to look at the work; and as Bataille's arrival had become known at the two farms, the
farmers' wives soon put in an appearance. They went into raptures, standing one at either side
of the baroness, exclaiming: "My! it requires some cleverness all the same to fix up those things."

The two doors could not be finished before the next day about eleven o'clock. Every one was
on hand; and they dragged the carriage outside so as to get a better view of it.

It was perfect. Bataille was complimented, and went off with his box on his back. They all
agreed that the painter had great ability, and if circumstances had been favorable would doubtless
have been a great artist.

Julien, by way of economy, had introduced great reforms which necessitated making some changes.
The old coachman had been made gardener, Julien undertaking to drive himself, having sold the
carriage horses to avoid buying feed for them. But as it was necessary to have some one to
hold the horses when he and his wife got out of the carriage, he had made a little cow tender
named Marius into a groom. Then in order to get some horses, he introduced a special clause
into the Couillards' and Martins' leases, by which they were bound to supply a horse each,
on a certain day every month, the date to be fixed by him; and this would exempt them from
their tribute of poultry.

So the Couillards brought a big yellow horse, and the Martins a small white animal with long,
unclipped coat, and the two were harnessed up together. Marius, buried in an old livery belonging
to old Simon, led the carriage up to the front door.

Julien, looking clean and brushed up, looked a little like his former self; but his long beard
gave him a common look in spite of all. He looked over the horses, the carriage, and the little
groom, and seemed satisfied, the only really important thing to him being the newly painted
escutcheon.

The baroness came down leaning on her husband's arm and got into the carriage. Then Jeanne
appeared. She began to laugh at the horses, saying that the white one was the son of the yellow
horse; then, perceiving Marius, his face buried under his hat with its cockade, his nose alone
preventing it from covering his face altogether, his hands hidden in his long sleeves, and
the tail of his coat forming a skirt round his legs, his feet encased in immense shoes showing
in a comical manner beneath it, and then when he threw his head back so as to see, and lifted
up his leg to walk as if he were crossing a river, she burst into a fit of uncontrollable laughter.

The baron turned round, glanced at the little bewildered groom and he, too, burst out laughing,
calling to his wife: "Look at Ma-Ma-Marius! Is he not comical? Heavens, how funny he looks!"

The baroness, looking out of the carriage window, was also convulsed, so that the carriage
shook on its springs.

But Julien, pale with anger, asked: "What makes you laugh like that? Are you crazy?"

Jeanne, quite convulsed and unable to stop laughing, sat down on the doorstep; the baron did
the same, while, in the carriage, spasmodic sneezes, a sort of constant chuckling, told that
the baroness was choking. Presently there was a motion beneath Marius' livery. He had, doubtless,
understood the joke, for he was shaking with laughter beneath his hat.

Julien darted forward in exasperation. With a box on the ear he sent the boy's hat flying across
the lawn; then, turning toward his father-in-law, he stammered in a voice trembling with rage:
"It seems to me that you should be the last to laugh. We should not be where we are now if
you had not wasted your money and ruined your property. Whose fault is it if you are ruined?"

The laughter ceased at once, and no one spoke. Jeanne, now ready to cry, got into the carriage
and sat beside her mother. The baron, silent and astonished, took his place opposite the two
ladies, and Julien sat on the box after lifting to the seat beside him the weeping boy, whose
face was beginning to swell.

The road was dreary and appeared long. The occupants of the carriage were silent. All three
sad and embarrassed, they would not acknowledge to one another what was occupying their thoughts.
They felt that they could not talk on indifferent subjects while these thoughts had possession
of them, and preferred to remain silent than to allude to this painful subject.

They drove past farmyards, the carriage jogging along unevenly with the ill-matched animals,
putting to flight terrified black hens who plunged into the bushes and disappeared, occasionally
followed by a barking wolf-hound.

At length they entered a wide avenue of pine trees, at the end of which was a white, closed
gate. Marius ran to open it, and they drove in round an immense grass plot, and drew up before
a high, spacious, sad-looking building with closed shutters.

The hall door opened abruptly, and an old, paralyzed servant wearing a black waistcoat with
red stripes partially covered by his working apron slowly descended the slanting steps. He
took the visitors' names and led them into an immense reception room, and opened with difficulty
the Venetian blinds which were always kept closed. The furniture had covers on it, and the
clock and candelabra were wrapped in white muslin. An atmosphere of mildew, an atmosphere of
former days, damp and icy, seemed to permeate one's lungs, heart and skin with melancholy.

They all sat down and waited. They heard steps in the hall above them that betokened unaccustomed
haste. The hosts were hurriedly dressing. The baroness, who was chilled, sneezed constantly.
Julien paced up and down. Jeanne, despondent, sat beside her mother. The baron leaned against
the marble mantelpiece with his head bent down.

Finally, one of the tall doors opened, and the Vicomte and Vicomtesse de Briseville appeared.
They were both small, thin, vivacious, of no age in particular, ceremonious and embarrassed.

After the first greetings, there seemed to be nothing to say. So they began to congratulate
each other for no special reason, and hoped that these friendly relations would be kept up.
It was a treat to see people when one lived in the country the year round.

The icy atmosphere pierced to their bones and made their voices hoarse. The baroness was coughing
now and had stopped sneezing. The baron thought it was time to leave. The Brisevilles said:
"What, so soon? Stay a little longer." But Jeanne had risen in spite of Julien's signals, for
he thought the visit too short.

They attempted to ring for the servant to order the carriage to the door, but the bell would
not ring. The host started out himself to attend to it, but found that the horses had been
put in the stable.

They had to wait. Every one tried to think of something to say. Jeanne, involuntarily shivering
with cold, inquired what their hosts did to occupy themselves all the year round. The Brisevilles
were much astonished; for they were always busy, either writing letters to their aristocratic
relations, of whom they had a number scattered all over France, or attending to microscopic
duties, as ceremonious to one another as though they were strangers, and talking grandiloquently
of the most insignificant matters.

At last the carriage passed the windows with its ill-matched team. But Marius had disappeared.
Thinking he was off duty until evening, he had doubtless gone for a walk.

Julien, perfectly furious, begged them to send him home on foot, and after a great many farewells
on both sides, they set out for the "Poplars."

As soon as they were inside the carriage, Jeanne and her father, in spite of Julien's brutal
behavior of the morning which still weighed on their minds, began to laugh at the gestures
and intonations of the Brisevilles. The baron imitated the husband, and Jeanne the wife. But
the baroness, a little touchy in these particulars, said: "You are wrong to ridicule them thus;
they are people of excellent family." They were silent out of respect for little mother, but
nevertheless, from time to time, Jeanne and her father began again. The baroness could not
forbear smiling in her turn, but she repeated: "It is not nice to laugh at people who belong
to our class."

Suddenly the carriage stopped, and Julien called out to someone behind it. Then Jeanne and
the baron, leaning out, saw a singular creature that appeared to be rolling along toward them.
His legs entangled in his flowing coattails, and blinded by his hat which kept falling over
his face, shaking his sleeves like the sails of a windmill, and splashing into puddles of water,
and stumbling against stones in the road, running and bounding, Marius was following the carriage
as fast as his legs could carry him.

As soon as he caught up with it, Julien, leaning over, seized him by the collar of his coat,
sat him down beside him, and letting go the reins, began to shower blows on the boy's hat,
which sank down to his shoulders with the reverberations of a drum. The boy screamed, tried
to get away, to jump from the carriage, while his master, holding him with one hand, continued
beating him with the other.

Jeanne, dumfounded, stammered: "Father--oh, father!" And the baroness, wild with indignation,
squeezed her husband's arm. "Stop him, Jack!" she exclaimed. The baron quickly lowered the
front window, and seizing hold of his son-in-law's sleeve, he sputtered out in a voice trembling
with rage: "Have you almost finished beating that child?"

Julien turned round in astonishment: "Don't you see what a condition his livery is in?"

But the baron, placing his head between them, said: "Well, what do I care? There is no need
to be brutal like that!"

Julien got angry again: "Let me alone, please; this is not your affair!" And he was raising
his hand again when his father-in-law caught hold of it and dragged it down so roughly that
he knocked it against the wood of the seat, and he roared at him so loud: "If you do not stop,
I shall get out, and I will see that you stop it, myself," that Julien calmed down at once,
and shrugging his shoulders without replying, he whipped up the horses, who set out at a quick
trot.

The two women, pale as death, did not stir, and one could hear distinctly the thumping of the
baroness' heart.

At dinner Julien was more charming than usual, as though nothing had occurred. Jeanne, her
father, and Madame Adelaide, pleased to see him so amiable, fell in with his mood, and when
Jeanne mentioned the Brisevilles, he laughed at them himself, adding, however: "All the same,
they have the grand air."

They made no more visits, each one fearing to revive the Marius episode. They decided, to send
New Year's cards, and to wait until the first warm days of spring before paying any more calls.

At Christmas they invited the cure, the mayor and his wife to dinner, and again on New Year's
Day. These were the only events that varied the monotony of their life. The baron and his wife
were to leave "The Poplars" on the ninth of January. Jeanne wanted to keep them, but Julien
did not acquiesce, and the baron sent for a post-chaise from Rouen, seeing his son-in-law's
coolness.

The day before their departure, as it was a clear frost, Jeanne and her father decided to go
to Yport, which they had not visited since her return from Corsica. They crossed the wood where
she had strolled on her wedding-day, all wrapped up in the one whose lifelong companion she
had become; the wood where she had received her first kiss, trembled at the first breath of
love, had a presentiment of that sensual love of which she did not become aware until she was
in the wild vale of Ota beside the spring where they mingled their kisses as they drank of
its waters. The trees were now leafless, the climbing vines dead.

They entered the little village. The empty, silent streets smelled of the sea, of wrack, of
fish. Huge brown nets were still hanging up to dry outside the houses, or stretched out on
the shingle. The gray, cold sea, with its eternal roaring foam, was going out, uncovering the
green rocks at the foot of the cliff toward Fecamp.

Jeanne and her father, motionless, watched the fishermen setting out in their boats in the
dusk, as they did every night, risking their lives to keep from starving, and so poor, nevertheless,
that they never tasted meat.

The baron, inspired at the sight of the ocean, murmured: "It is terrible, but it is beautiful.
How magnificent this sea is on which the darkness is falling, and on which so many lives are
in peril, is it not, Jeannette?"

She replied with a cold smile: "It is nothing to the Mediterranean."

Her father, indignant, exclaimed: "The Mediterranean! It is oil, sugar water, bluing water
in a washtub. Look at this sea, how terrible it is with its crests of foam! And think of all
those men who have set out on it, and who are already out of sight."

Jeanne assented with a sigh: "Yes, if you think so." But this name, "Mediterranean," had wrung
her heart afresh, sending her thoughts back to those distant lands where her dreams lay buried.

Instead of returning home by the woods, they walked along the road, mounting the ascent slowly.
They were silent, sad at the thought of the approaching separation. As they passed along beside
the farmyards an odor of crushed apples, that smell of new cider which seems to pervade the
atmosphere in this season all through Normandy, rose to their nostrils, or else a strong smell
of the cow stables. A small lighted window at the end of the yard indicated the farmhouse.

It seemed to Jeanne that her mind was expanding, was beginning to understand the psychic meaning
of things; and these little scattered gleams in the landscape gave her, all at once, a keen
sense of the isolation of all human lives, a feeling that everything detaches, separates, draws
one far away from the things they love.

She said, in a resigned tone: "Life is not always cheerful."

The baron sighed: "How can it be helped, daughter? We can do nothing."

The following day the baron and his wife went away, and Jeanne and Julien were left alone.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER VII

JEANNE'S DISCOVERY

Cards now became a distraction in the life of the young people. Every morning after breakfast,
Julien would play several games of bezique with his wife, smoking and sipping brandy as he
played. She would then go up to her room and sit down beside the window, and as the rain beat
against the panes, or the wind shook the windows, she would embroider away steadily. Occasionally
she would raise her eyes and look out at the gray sea which had white-caps on it. Then, after
gazing listlessly for some time, she would resume her work.

She had nothing else to do, Julien having taken the entire management of the house, to satisfy
his craving for authority and his craze for economy. He was parsimonious in the extreme, never
gave any tips, cut down the food to the merest necessaries; and as Jeanne since her return
had ordered the baker to make her a little Norman "galette" for breakfast, he had cut down
this extra expense, and condemned her to eat toast.

She said nothing in order to avoid recriminations, arguments and quarrels; but she suffered
keenly at each fresh manifestation of avarice on the part of her husband. It appeared to her
low and odious, brought up as she had been in a family where money was never considered. How
often had she not heard her mother say: "Why, money is made to be spent." Julien would now
say: "Will you never become accustomed to not throwing money away?" And each time he deducted
a few sous from some one's salary or on a note, he would say with a smile, as he slipped the
change into his pocket: "Little streams make big rivers."

On certain days Jeanne would sit and dream. She would gradually cease sewing and, with her
hands idle, and forgetting her surroundings, she would weave one of those romances of her girlhood
and be lost in some enchanting adventure. But suddenly Julien's voice giving some orders to
old Simon would snatch her abruptly from her dreams, and she would take up her work again,
saying: "That is all over," and a tear would fall on her hands as she plied the needle.

Rosalie, formerly so cheerful and always singing, had changed. Her rounded cheeks had lost
their color, and were now almost hollow, and sometimes had an earthy hue. Jeanne would frequently
ask her: "Are you ill, my girl?" The little maid would reply: "No, madame," while her cheeks
would redden slightly and she would retire hastily.

At the end of January the snow came. In one night the whole plain was covered and the trees
next morning were white with icy foam.

On one of these mornings, Jeanne was sitting warming her feet before the fire in her room,
while Rosalie, who had changed from day to day, was making the bed. Suddenly hearing behind
her a kind of moan, Jeanne asked, without turning her head: "What is the matter?"

The maid replied as usual: "Nothing, madame"; but her voice was weak and trembling.

Jeanne's thoughts were on something else, when she noticed that the girl was not moving about
the room. She called: "Rosalie!" Still no sound. Then, thinking she might have left the room,
she cried in a louder tone: "Rosalie!" and she was reaching out her arm to ring the bell, when
a deep moan close beside her made her start up with a shudder.

The little servant, her face livid, her eyes haggard, was seated on the floor, her legs stretched
out, and her back leaning against the bed. Jeanne sprang toward her. "What is the matter with
you--what is the matter?" she asked.

The girl did not reply, did not move. She stared vacantly at her mistress and gasped as though
she were in terrible pain. Then, suddenly, she slid down on her back at full length, clenching
her teeth to smother a cry of anguish.

Jeanne suddenly understood, and almost distracted, she ran to the head of the stairs, crying:
"Julien, Julien!"

"What do you want?" he replied from below.

She hardly knew how to tell him. "It is Rosalie, who----"

Julien rushed upstairs two steps at a time, and going abruptly into the room, he found the
poor girl had just been delivered of a child. He looked round with a wicked look on his face,
and pushing his terrified wife out of the room, exclaimed: "This is none of your affair. Go
away. Send me Ludivine and old Simon."

Jeanne, trembling, descended to the kitchen, and then, not daring to go upstairs again, she
went into the drawing-room, in which there had been no fire since her parents left, and anxiously
awaited news.

She presently saw the man-servant running out of the house. Five minutes later he returned
with Widow Dentu, the nurse of the district.

Then there was a great commotion on the stairs as though they were carrying a wounded person,
and Julien came in and told Jeanne that she might go back to her room.

She trembled as if she had witnessed some terrible accident. She sat down again before the
fire, and asked: "How is she?"

Julien, preoccupied and nervous, was pacing up and down the room. He seemed to be getting angry,
and did not reply at first. Then he stopped and said: "What do you intend to do with this girl?"

She did not understand, and looked at her husband. "Why, what do you mean? I do not know."

Then suddenly flying into a rage, he exclaimed: "We cannot keep a bastard in the house."

Jeanne was very much bewildered, and said at the end of a long silence: "But, my friend, perhaps
we could put it out to nurse?"

He cut her short: "And who will pay the bill? You will, no doubt."

She reflected for some time, trying to find some way out of the difficulty; at length she said:
"Why, the father will take care of it, of the child; and if he marries Rosalie, there will
be no more difficulty."

Julien, as though his patience were exhausted, replied furiously: "The father!--the father!--do
you know him--the father? No, is it not so? Well then----?"

Jeanne, much affected, became excited: "But you certainly would not let the girl go away like
that. It would be cowardly! We will inquire the name of the man, and we will go and find him,
and he will have to explain matters."

Julien had calmed down and resumed his pacing up and down. "My dear," he said, "she will not
tell the name of the man; she will not tell you any more than she will tell me--and, if he
does not want her? ... We cannot, however, keep a woman and her illegitimate child under our
roof, don't you understand?"

Jeanne, persistent, replied: "Then he must be a wretch, this man. But we must certainly find
out who it is, and then he will have us to deal with."

Julien colored, became annoyed again, and said: "But--meanwhile----?"

She did not know what course to take, and asked: "What do you propose?"

"Oh, I? That's very simple. I would give her some money and send her to the devil with her brat."

The young wife, indignant, was disgusted with him. "That shall never be," she said. "She is
my foster-sister, that girl; we grew up together. She has made a mistake, so much the worse;
but I will not cast her out of doors on that account; and, if it is necessary, I will bring
up the child."

Then Julien's wrath exploded: "And we should earn a fine reputation, we, with our name and
our position! And they would say of us everywhere that we were protecting vice, harboring beggars;
and decent people would never set their foot inside our doors. What are you thinking of? You
must be crazy!"

She had remained quite calm. "I shall never cast off Rosalie; and if you do not wish her to
stay, my mother will take her; and we shall surely succeed in finding out the name of the father
of the child."

He left the room in exasperation, banging the door after him and exclaiming: "What stupid ideas
women have!"

In the afternoon Jeanne went up to see the patient. The little maid, watched over by Widow
Dentu, was lying still in her bed, her eyes wide open, while the nurse held the new-born babe
in her arms.

As soon as Rosalie perceived her mistress, she began to sob, hiding her face in the covers
and shaking with her sorrow. Jeanne wanted to kiss her, but she avoided it by keeping her face
covered. But the nurse interfered, and drawing away the sheet, uncovered her face, and she
let Jeanne kiss her, weeping still, but more quietly.

A meagre fire was burning in the grate; the room was cold; the child was crying. Jeanne did
not dare to speak of the little one, for fear of another attack, and she took her maid's hand
as she said mechanically: "It will not matter, it will not matter." The poor girl glanced furtively
at the nurse, and trembled as the infant cried, and the remembrance of her sorrow came to her
mind occasionally in a convulsive sob, while suppressed tears choked her.

Jeanne kissed her again, and murmured softly in her ear: "We will take good care of it, never
fear, my girl." Then as she was beginning to cry again, Jeanne made her escape.

She came to see her every day, and each time Rosalie burst into tears at the sight of her mistress.

The child was put out to nurse at a neighbor's.

Julien, however, hardly spoke to his wife, as though he had nourished anger against her ever
since she refused to send away the maid. He referred to the subject one day, but Jeanne took
from her pocket a letter from the baroness asking them to send the girl to them at once if
they would not keep her at the "Poplars." Julien, furious, cried: "Your mother is as foolish
as you are!" but he did not insist any more.

Two weeks later the patient was able to get up and take up her work again.

One morning, Jeanne made her sit down and, taking her hands and looking steadfastly at her,
she said:

"See here, my girl, tell me everything."

Rosalie began to tremble, and faltered:

"What, madame?"

"Whose is it, this child?"

The little maid was overcome with confusion, and she sought wildly to withdraw her hands so
as to hide her face. But Jeanne kissed her in spite of herself, and consoled her, saying: "It
is a misfortune, but cannot be helped, my girl. You were weak, but that happens to many others.
If the father marries you, no one will think of it again."

Rosalie sighed as if she were suffering, and from time to time made an effort to disengage
herself and run away.

Jeanne resumed: "I understand perfectly that you are ashamed; but you see that I am not angry,
that I speak kindly to you. If I ask you the name of the man it is for your own good, for I
feel from your grief that he has deserted you, and because I wish to prevent that. Julien will
go and look for him, you see, and we will oblige him to marry you; and as we will employ you
both, we will oblige him also to make you happy."

This time Rosalie gave such a jerk that she snatched her hands away from her mistress and ran
off as if she were mad.

That evening at dinner Jeanne said to Julien: "I tried to persuade Rosalie to tell me the name
of her betrayer. I did not succeed. You try to find out so that we can compel this miserable
man to marry her."

But Julien became angry: "Oh! you know I do not wish to hear anything about it. You wish to
keep this girl. Keep her, but do not bother me about her."

Since the girl's illness he appeared to be more irritable than ever; and he had got into the
way of never speaking to his wife without shouting as if he were in a rage, while she, on the
contrary, would lower her voice, be gentle and conciliating, to avoid all argument; but she
often wept at night after she went to bed.

In spite of his constant irritability, her husband had become more affectionate than customary
since their return.

Rosalie was soon quite well and less sad, although she appeared terrified, pursued by some
unknown fear, and she ran away twice when Jeanne tried to question her again.

Julien all at once became more amiable, and the young wife, clinging to vain hopes, also became
more cheerful. The thaw had not yet set in and a hard, smooth, glittering covering of snow
extended over the landscape. Neither men nor animals were to be seen; only the chimneys of
the cottages gave evidence of life in the smoke that ascended from them into the icy air.

One evening the thermometer fell still lower, and Julien, shivering as he left the table--for
the dining-room was never properly heated, he was so economical with the wood--rubbed his hands,
murmuring: "It will be warmer to-night, won't it, my dear?" He laughed with his jolly laugh
of former days, and Jeanne threw her arms around his neck: "I do not feel well, dear; perhaps
I shall be better to-morrow."

"As you wish, my dear. If you are ill you must take care of yourself." And they began to talk
of other things.

She retired early. Julien, for a wonder, had a fire lighted in her room. As soon as he saw
that it was burning brightly, he kissed his wife on the forehead and left the room.

The whole house seemed to be penetrated by the cold; the very walls seemed to be shivering,
and Jeanne shivered in her bed. Twice she got up to put fresh logs on the fire and to look
for dresses, skirts, and other garments which she piled on the bed. Nothing seemed to warm
her; her feet were numbed and her lower limbs seemed to tingle, making her excessively nervous
and restless.

Then her teeth began to chatter, her hands shook, there was a tightness in her chest, her heart
began to beat with hard, dull pulsations, and at times seemed to stop beating, and she gasped
for breath. A terrible apprehension seized her, while the cold seemed to penetrate to her marrow.
She never had felt such a sensation, she had never seemed to lose her hold on life like this
before, never been so near her last breath.

"I am going to die," she thought, "I am dying----"

And filled with terror, she jumped out of bed, rang for Rosalie, waited, rang again, waited
again, shivering and frozen.

The little maid did not come. She was doubtless asleep, that first, sound sleep that nothing
can disturb. Jeanne, in despair, darted toward the stairs in her bare feet, and groping her
way, she ascended the staircase quietly, found the door, opened it, and called, "Rosalie!"
She went forward, stumbled against the bed, felt all over it with her hands and found that
it was empty. It was empty and cold, and as if no one had slept there. Much surprised, she
said: "What! Has she gone out in weather like this?"

But as her heart began to beat tumultuously till she seemed to be suffocating, she went downstairs
again with trembling limbs in order to wake Julien. She rushed into his room filled with the
idea that she was going to die, and longing to see him before she lost consciousness.

By the light of the dying embers she perceived Rosalie's head leaning on her husband's shoulder.

At the cry she gave they both started to their feet; she stood motionless for a second, horrified
at this discovery, and then fled to her room; and when Julien, at his wit's end, called "Jeanne!"
she was seized with an overmastering terror of seeing him, of hearing his voice, of listening
to him explaining, lying, of meeting his gaze; and she darted toward the stairs again and went
down.

She now ran along in the darkness, at the risk of falling downstairs, at the risk of breaking
her neck on the stone floor of the hall. She rushed along, impelled by an imperious desire
to flee, to know nothing about it, to see no one.

When she was at the bottom of the stairs she sat down on one of the steps, still in her nightdress,
and in bare feet, and remained in a dazed condition. She heard Julien moving and walking about.
She started to her feet in order to escape him. He was starting to come downstairs and called:
"Listen, Jeanne!"

No, she would not listen nor let him touch her with the tips of his fingers; and she darted
into the dining-room as if she were fleeing from an assassin. She looked for a door of escape,
a hiding place, a dark corner, some way of avoiding him. She hid under the table. But he was
already at the door, a candle in his hand, still calling: "Jeanne!" She started off again like
a hare, darted into the kitchen, ran round it twice like a trapped animal, and as he came near
her, she suddenly opened the door into the garden and darted out into the night.

The contact with the snow, into which she occasionally sank up to her knees, seemed to give
her the energy of despair. She did not feel cold, although she had little on. She felt nothing,
her body was so numbed from the emotion of her mind, and she ran along as white as the snow.

She followed the large avenue, crossed the wood, crossed the ditch, and started off across
the plain.

There was no moon, the stars were shining like sparks of fire in the black sky; but the plain
was light with a dull whiteness, and lay in infinite silence.

Jeanne walked quickly, hardly breathing, not knowing, not thinking of anything. She suddenly
stopped on the edge of the cliff. She stopped short, instinctively, and crouched down, bereft
of thought and of will power.

In the abyss before her the silent, invisible sea exhaled the salt odor of its wrack at low tide.

She remained thus some time, her mind as inert as her body; then, all at once, she began to
tremble, to tremble violently, like a sail shaken by the wind. Her arms, her hands, her feet,
impelled by an invisible force, throbbed, pulsated wildly, and her consciousness awakened abruptly,
sharp and poignant.

Old memories passed before her mental vision: the sail with him in Pere Lastique's boat, their
conversation, his nascent love, the christening of the boat; then she went back, further back,
to that night of dreams when she first came to the "Poplars." And now! And now! Oh, her life
was shipwrecked, all joy was ended, all expectation at an end; and the frightful future full
of torture, of deception, and of despair appeared before her. Better to die, it would all be
over at once.

But a voice cried in the distance: "Here it is, here are her steps; quick, quick, this way!"
It was Julien who was looking for her.

Oh! she did not wish to see him again. In the abyss down yonder before her she now heard a
slight sound, the indistinct ripple of the waves over the rocks. She rose to her feet with
the idea of throwing herself over the cliff and bidding life farewell. Like one in despair,
she uttered the last word of the dying, the last word of the young soldier slain in battle:
"Mother!"

All at once the thought of little mother came to her mind, she saw her sobbing, she saw her
father on his knees before her mangled remains, and in a second she felt all the pain of their
sorrow.

She sank down again into the snow; and when Julien and old Simon, followed by Marius, carrying
a lantern, seized her arm to pull her back as she was so close to the brink, she made no attempt
to escape.

She let them do as they would, for she could not stir. She felt that they were carrying her,
and then that she was being put to bed and rubbed with hot cloths; then she became unconscious.

Then she had a nightmare, or was it a nightmare? She was in bed. It was broad daylight, but
she could not get up. Why? She did not know. Then she heard a little noise on the floor, a
sort of scratching, a rustling, and suddenly a mouse, a little gray mouse, ran quickly across
the sheet. Another followed it, then a third, who ran toward her chest with his little, quick
scamper. Jeanne was not afraid, and she reached out her hand to catch the animal, but could
not catch it. Then other mice, ten, twenty, hundreds, thousands, rose up on all sides of her.
They climbed the bedposts, ran up the tapestries, covered the bed completely. And soon they
got beneath the covers; Jeanne felt them gliding over her skin, tickling her limbs, running
up and down her body. She saw them running from the bottom of the bed to get into her neck
under the sheets; and she tried to fight them off, throwing her hands out to try and catch
them, but always finding them empty.

She was frantic, wanted to escape, screamed, and it seemed as if she were being held down,
as if strong arms enfolded her and rendered her helpless; but she saw no one.

She had no idea of time. It must have been long, a very long time.

Then she awoke, weary, aching, but quiet. She felt weak, very weak. She opened her eyes and
was not surprised to see little mother seated in her room with a man whom she did not know.

How old was she? She did not know, and thought she was a very little girl. She had no recollection
of anything.

The big man said: "Why, she has regained consciousness." Little mother began to weep. Then
the big man resumed: "Come, be calm, baroness; I can ensure her recovery now. But do not talk
to her at all. Let her sleep, let her sleep."

Then it seemed to Jeanne that she remained in a state of exhaustion for a long time, overcome
by a heavy sleep as soon as she tried to think; and she tried not to remember anything whatever,
as though she had a vague fear that the reality might come back to her.

Once when she awoke she saw Julien, alone, standing beside her; and suddenly it all came back
to her, as if the curtain which hid her past life had been raised.

She felt a horrible pain in her heart, and wanted to escape once more. She threw back the coverlets,
jumped to the floor and fell down, her limbs being too weak to support her.

Julien sprang toward her, and she began to scream for him not to touch her. She writhed and
rolled on the floor. The door opened. Aunt Lison came running in with Widow Dentu, then the
baron, and finally little mother, puffing and distracted.

They put her back into bed, and she immediately closed her eyes, so as to escape talking and
be able to think quietly.

Her mother and aunt watched over her anxiously, saying: "Do you hear us now, Jeanne, my little
Jeanne?"

She pretended to be deaf, not to hear them, and did not answer. Night came on and the nurse
took up her position beside the bed. She did not sleep; she kept trying to think of things
that had escaped her memory as though there were holes in it, great white empty places where
events had not been noted down.

Little by little she began to recall the facts, and she pondered over them steadily.

Little mother, Aunt Lison, the baron had come, so she must have been very ill. But Julien?
What had he said? Did her parents know? And Rosalie, where was she? And what should she do?
What should she do? An idea came to her--she would return to Rouen and live with father and
little mother as in old days. She would be a widow; that's all.

Then she waited, listening to what was being said around her, understanding everything without
letting them see it, rejoiced at her returning reason, patient and crafty.

That evening, at last, she found herself alone with the baroness and called to her in a low
tone: "Little Mother!" Her own voice astonished her, it seemed strange. The baroness seized
her hands: "My daughter, my darling Jeanne! My child, do you recognize me?"

"Yes, little mother, but you must not weep; we have a great deal to talk about. Did Julien
tell you why I ran away in the snow?"

"Yes, my darling, you had a very dangerous fever."

"It was not that, mamma. I had the fever afterward; but did he tell you what gave me the fever
and why I ran away?"

"No, my dearie."

"It was because I found Rosalie in his room."

Her mother thought she was delirious again and soothed her, saying: "Go to sleep, darling,
calm yourself, try to sleep."

But Jeanne, persistent, continued: "I am quite sensible now, little mother. I am not talking
wildly as I must have done these last days. I felt ill one night and I went to look for Julien.
Rosalie was with him in his room. I did not know what I was doing, for sorrow, and I ran out
into the snow to throw myself off the cliff."

But the baroness reiterated, "Yes, darling, you have been very ill, very ill."

"It is not that, mamma. I found Rosalie in with Julien, and I will not live with him any longer.
You will take me back with you to Rouen to live as we used to do."

The baroness, whom the doctor had warned not to thwart Jeanne in any way, replied: "Yes, my
darling."

But the invalid grew impatient: "I see that you do not believe me. Go and fetch little father,
he will soon understand."

The baroness left the room and presently returned, leaning on her husband's arm. They sat down
beside the bed and Jeanne began to talk. She told them all, quietly, in a weak voice, but clearly;
all about Julien's peculiar character, his harshness, his avarice, and, finally, his infidelity.

When she had finished, the baron saw that she was not delirious, but he did not know what to
think, what to determine, or what to answer. He took her hand, tenderly, as he used to do when
he put her to sleep with stories, and said: "Listen, dearie, we must act with prudence. We
must do nothing rash. Try to put up with your husband until we can come to some decision--promise
me this?"

"I will try, but I will not stay here after I get well," she replied.

Then she added in a lower tone: "Where is Rosalie now?"

"You will not see her any more," replied the baron. But she persisted: "Where is she? I wish
to know." Then he confessed that she had not left the house, but declared that she was going
to leave.

On leaving the room the baron, filled with indignation and wounded in his feelings as a father,
went to look for Julien, and said to him abruptly: "Sir, I have come to ask you for an explanation
of your conduct toward my daughter. You have been unfaithful to her with your maid, which is
a double insult."

Julien pretended to be innocent, denied everything positively, swore, took God as his witness.
What proof had they? he asked. Was not Jeanne delirious? Had she not had brain fever? Had she
not run out in the snow, in an attack of delirium, at the very beginning of her illness? And
it was just at this time, when she was running about the house almost naked, that she pretends
that she saw her maid in her husband's room!

And he grew angry, threatened a lawsuit, became furious. The baron, bewildered, made excuses,
begged his pardon, and held out his loyal hand to Julien, who refused to take it.

When Jeanne heard what her husband had said, she did not show any annoyance, but replied: "He
is lying, papa, but we shall end by convicting him."

For some days she remained taciturn and reserved, thinking over matters. The third morning
she asked to see Rosalie. The baron refused to send her up, saying she had left. Jeanne persisted,
saying: "Well, let some one go and fetch her."

She was beginning to get excited when the doctor came. They told him everything, so that he
could form an opinion. But Jeanne suddenly burst into tears, her nerves all unstrung, and almost
screamed: "I want Rosalie; I wish to see her!"

The doctor took hold of her hand and said in a low tone: "Calm yourself, madame; any emotion
may lead to serious consequences, for you are enceinte."

She was dumfounded, as though she had received a blow; and it seemed to her that she felt the
first stirrings of life within her. Then she was silent, not even listening to what was being
said, absorbed in her own thoughts. She could not sleep that night for thinking of the new
life that was developing in her, and was sad at the thought that it was Julien's child, and
might resemble him. The following morning she sent for the baron. "Little father," she said,
"my resolution is formed; I wish to know everything, and especially just now; you understand,
I insist, and you know that you must not thwart me in my present condition. Listen! You must
go and get M. le Cure. I need him here to keep Rosalie from telling a lie. Then, as soon as
he comes, send him up to me, and you stay downstairs with little mother. And, above all things,
see that Julien does not suspect anything."

An hour later the priest came, looking fatter than ever, and puffing like the baroness. He
sat down in an arm-chair and began to joke, wiping his forehead as usual with his plaid handkerchief.
"Well, baroness, I do not think we grow any thinner; I think we make a good pair." Then, turning
toward the patient, he said: "Eh, what is this I hear, young lady, that we are soon to have
a fresh baptism? Aha, it will not be a boat this time." And in a graver tone he added: "It
will be a defender of the country; unless"--after a moment's reflection--"it should be the
prospective mother of a family, like you, madame," bowing to the baroness.

The door at the end of the room opened and Rosalie appeared, beside herself, weeping, refusing
to enter the room, clinging to the door frame, and being pushed forward by the baron. Quite
out of patience, he thrust her into the room. She covered her face with her hands and remained
standing there, sobbing.

Jeanne, as soon as she saw her, rose to a sitting posture, whiter than the sheets, and with
her heart beating wildly. She could not speak, could hardly breathe. At length she said, in
a voice broken with emotion: "I--I--will not--need--to question you. It--it is enough for me
to see you thus--to--to see your--your shame in my presence."

After a pause, for she was out of breath, she continued: "I had M. le Cure come, so that it
might be like a confession, you understand."

Rosalie, motionless, uttered little cries that were almost screams behind her hands.

The baron, whose anger was gaining ground, seized her arms, and snatching her hands from her
face, he threw her on her knees beside the bed, saying: "Speak! Answer!"

She remained on the ground, in the position assigned to Magdalens, her cap awry, her apron
on the floor, and her face again covered by her hands.

Then the priest said: "Come, my girl, listen to what is said to you, and reply. We do not want
to harm you, but we want to know what occurred."

Jeanne, leaning over, looked at her and said: "Is it true that you were with Julien when I
surprised you?"

Rosalie moaned through her fingers, "Yes, madame."

Then the baroness suddenly began to cry in a choking fashion, and her convulsive sobs accompanied
those of Rosalie.

Jeanne, with her eyes fixed on the maid, said: "How long had this been going on?"

"Ever since he came here," faltered Rosalie.

Jeanne could not understand. "Ever since he came--then--ever since--ever since the spring?"

"Yes, madame."

"Ever since he came into this house?"

"Yes, madame."

And Jeanne, as if overflowing with questions, asked, speaking precipitately:

"But how did it happen? How did he approach you? How did he persuade you? What did he say?
When, how did you ever yield to him? How could you ever have done it?"

Rosalie, removing her hands from her face, and overwhelmed also with a feverish desire to speak,
said:

"How do I know, myself? It was the day he dined here for the first time, and he came up to
my room. He had hidden himself in the loft. I did not dare to scream for fear of making a scandal.
I no longer knew what I was doing. Then I said nothing because I liked him."

Then Jeanne exclaimed with almost a scream:

"But--your--your child--is his child?"

Rosalie sobbed.

"Yes, madame."

Then they were both silent. The only sound to be heard was the sobs of Rosalie and of the baroness.

Jeanne, quite overcome, felt her tears also beginning to flow; and they fell silently down
her cheeks.

The maid's child had the same father, as her child! Her anger was at an end; she now was filled
with a dreary, slow, profound and infinite despair. She presently resumed in a changed, tearful
voice, the voice of a woman who has been crying:

"When we returned from--from down there--from our journey--when did he begin again?"

The little maid, who had sunk down on the floor, faltered: "The first evening."

Each word wrung Jeanne's heart. So on the very first night of their return to the "Poplars"
he left her for this girl. That was why he wanted to sleep alone!

She now knew all she wanted to know, and exclaimed: "Go away, go away!" And as Rosalie, perfectly
crushed, did not stir, Jeanne called to her father: "Take her away, carry her away!" The priest,
who had said nothing as yet, thought that the moment had arrived for him to preach a little sermon.

"What you have done is very wrong, my daughter, very wrong, and God will not pardon you so
easily. Consider the hell that awaits you if you do not always act right. Now that you have
a child you must behave yourself. No doubt madame la baronne will do something for you, and
we will find you a husband."

He would have continued speaking, but the baron, having again seized Rosalie by the shoulders,
raised her from the floor and dragged her to the door, and threw her like a package into the
corridor. As he turned back into the room, looking paler than his daughter, the priest resumed:
"What can one do? They are all like that in the district. It is shocking, but cannot be helped,
and then one must be a little indulgent toward the weaknesses of our nature. They never get
married until they have become enceinte, never, madame." He added, smiling: "One might call
it a local custom. So, you see, monsieur, your maid did as all the rest do."

But the baron, who was trembling with nervousness, interrupted him, saying, "She! what do I
care about her! It is Julien with whom I am indignant. It is infamous, the way he has behaved,
and I shall take my daughter away."

He walked up and down excitedly, becoming more and more exasperated: "It is infamous to have
betrayed my child, infamous! He is a wretch, this man, a cad, a wretch! and I will tell him
so. I will slap his face. I will give him a horsewhipping!"

The priest, who was slowly taking a pinch of snuff, seated beside the baroness still in tears,
and endeavoring to fulfill his office of a peacemaker, said: "Come, monsieur le baron, between
ourselves, he has done what every one else does. Do you know many husbands who are faithful?"
And he added with a sly good humor: "Come now, I wager that you have had your turn. Your hand
on your heart, am I right?" The baron had stopped in astonishment before the priest, who continued:
"Why, yes, you did just as others did. Who knows if you did not make love to a little sugar
plum like that? I tell you that every one does. Your wife was none the less happy, or less
loved; am I not right?"

The baron had not stirred, he was much disturbed. What the priest said was true, and he had
sinned as much as any one and had not hesitated when his wife's maids were in question. Was
he a wretch on that account? Why should he judge Julien's conduct so severely when his own
had not been above blame?

The baroness, still struggling with her sobs, smiled faintly at the recollection of her husband's
escapades, for she belonged to the sentimental class for whom love adventures are a part of
existence.

Jeanne, exhausted, lay with wide-open eyes, absorbed in painful reflection. Something Rosalie
had said had wounded her as though an arrow had pierced her heart: "As for me, I said nothing,
because I liked him."

She had liked him also, and that was the only reason why she had given herself, bound herself
for life to him, why she had renounced everything else, all her cherished plans, all the unknown
future. She had fallen into this marriage, into this hole without any edges by which one could
climb out, into this wretchedness, this sadness, this despair, because, like Rosalie, she had
liked him!

The door was pushed violently open and Julien appeared, with a furious expression on his face.
He had caught sight of Rosalie moaning on the stairs, and suspected that something was up,
that the maid had probably told all. The sight of the priest riveted him to the spot.

"Why, what's the matter?" he asked in a trembling but quiet tone.

The baron, so violent a short while ago, did not venture to speak, afraid of the priest's remarks,
and of what his son-in-law might say in the same strain. Little mother was weeping more copiously
than ever; but Jeanne had raised herself with her hands and looked, breathing quickly, at the
one who had caused her such cruel sorrow. She stammered out: "The fact is, we know all, all
your rascality since--since the day you first entered this house--we know that the child of
this maid is your child, just as--as--mine is--they will be brothers." Overcome with sorrow
at this thought, she buried herself in the sheets and wept bitterly.

Julien stood there gaping, not knowing what to say or do. The priest came to the rescue.

"Come, come, do not give way like that, my dear young lady, be sensible." He rose, approached
the bed and placed his warm hand on the despairing girl's forehead. This seemed to soothe her
strangely. She felt quieted, as if this strong peasant's hand, accustomed to the gesture of
absolution, to kindly consolations, had conveyed by its touch some mysterious solace.

The good man, still standing, continued: "Madame, we must always forgive. A great sorrow has
come to you; but God in His mercy has balanced it by a great happiness, since you will become
a mother. This child will be your comfort. In his name I implore you, I adjure you to forgive
M. Julien's error. It will be a new bond between you, a pledge of his future fidelity. Can
you remain apart in your heart from him whose child you bear?"

She did not reply, crushed, mortified, exhausted as she was, without even strength for anger
or resentment. Her nerves seemed relaxed, almost severed, she seemed to be scarcely alive.

The baroness, who seemed incapable of resentment, and whose mind was unequal to prolonged effort,
murmured: "Come, come, Jeanne."

Then the priest took the hand of the young man and leading him up to the bed, he placed his
hand in that of his wife, and gave it a little tap as though to unite them more closely. Then
laying aside his professional tone and manner, he said with a satisfied air: "Well, now, that's
done. Believe me, that is the best thing to do." The two hands, joined for a moment, separated
immediately. Julien, not daring to kiss Jeanne, kissed his mother-in-law on the forehead, turned
on his heel, took the arm of the baron, who acquiesced, happy at heart that the thing had been
settled thus, and they went out together to smoke a cigar.

The patient, overcome, dozed off, while the priest and little mother talked in a low tone.

The priest explained and propounded his ideas, to which the baroness assented by nodding her
head. He said in conclusion: "Well, then, that is understood; you will give this girl the Barville
farm, and I will undertake to find her a husband, a good, steady fellow. Oh! with a property
worth twenty thousand francs we shall have no lack of suitors. There will be more than enough
to choose from."

The baroness was smiling now, quite happy, with the remains of two tears that had dried on
her cheeks.

She repeated: "That is settled. Barville is worth at least twenty thousand francs, but it will
be settled on the child, the parents having the use of it during their lifetime."

The cure rose, shook little mother's hand, saying: "Do not disturb yourself, Madame la Baronne,
do not disturb yourself; I know what an effort it is."

As he went out he met Aunt Lison coming to see her patient. She noticed nothing; they told
her nothing; and she knew nothing, as usual.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER VIII

MATERNITY

Rosalie had left the house. Jeanne felt no joy at the thought of being a mother, she had had
so much sorrow. She awaited the advent of her child without curiosity, still filled with the
apprehension of unknown misfortunes.

A big woman, big as a house, had taken Rosalie's place and supported the baroness in her monotonous
walks along her avenue. The baron gave his arm to Jeanne, who was now always ailing, while
Aunt Lison, uneasy, and busied about the approaching event, held her other hand, bewildered
at this mystery which she would never know.

They all walked along like this almost in silence for hours at a time, while Julien was riding
about the country on horseback, having suddenly acquired this taste. Nothing ever came to disturb
their dreary life. The baron, his wife, and the vicomte paid a visit to the Fourvilles, whom
Julien seemed to be already well acquainted with, without one knowing just how. Another ceremonious
visit was exchanged with the Brisevilles, who were still hidden in their manor house.

One afternoon, about four o'clock, two persons, a lady and gentleman on horseback, rode up
into the courtyard of the chateau. Julien, greatly excited, ran up to Jeanne's room. "Quick,
quick, come downstairs; here are the Fourvilles. They have just come as neighbors, knowing
your condition. Tell them that I have gone out, but that I will be back. I will just go and
make myself presentable."

Jeanne, much surprised, went downstairs. A pale, pretty young woman with a sad face, dreamy
eyes, and lustreless, fair hair, looking as though the sunlight had never kissed it, quietly
introduced her husband, a kind of giant, or ogre with a large red mustache. She added: "We
have several times had the pleasure of meeting M. de Lamare. We heard from him how you were
suffering, and we would not put off coming to see you as neighbors, without any ceremony. You
see that we came on horseback. I also had the pleasure the other day of a visit from madame,
your mother, and the baron."

She spoke with perfect ease, familiar but refined. Jeanne was charmed, and fell in love with
her at once. "This is a friend," she thought.

The Comte de Fourville, on the contrary, seemed like a bear in the drawing-room. As soon as
he was seated, he placed his hat on the chair next him, did not know what to do with his hands,
placed them on his knees, then on the arms of the chair, and finally crossed his fingers as
if in prayer.

Suddenly Julien entered the room. Jeanne was amazed and did not recognize him. He was shaved.
He looked handsome, elegant, and attractive as on the day of their betrothal. He shook the
comte's hairy paw, kissed the hand of the comtesse, whose ivory cheeks colored up slightly
while her eyelids quivered.

He began to speak; he was charming as in former days. His large eyes, the mirrors of love,
had become tender again. And his hair, lately so dull and unkempt, had regained its soft, glossy
wave, with the use of a hairbrush and perfumed oil.

At the moment that the Fourvilles were taking their leave the comtesse, turning toward him,
said: "Would you like to take a ride on Thursday, dear vicomte?"

As he bowed and murmured, "Why, certainly, madame," she took Jeanne's hand and said in a sympathetic
and affectionate tone, with a cordial smile: "Oh! when you are well, we will all three gallop
about the country. It will be delightful. What do you say?"

With an easy gesture she held up her riding skirt and then jumped into the saddle with the
lightness of a bird, while her husband, after bowing awkwardly, mounted his big Norman steed.
As they disappeared outside the gate, Julien, who seemed charmed, exclaimed: "What delightful
people! those are friends who may be useful to us."

Jeanne, pleased also without knowing why, replied: "The little comtesse is charming, I feel
that I shall love her, but the husband looks like a brute. Where did you meet them?"

He rubbed his hands together good humoredly. "I met them by chance at the Brisevilles'. The
husband seems a little rough. He cares for nothing but hunting, but he is a real noble for
all that."

The dinner was almost cheerful, as though some secret happiness had come into the house.

Nothing new happened until the latter days of July, when Jeanne was taken ill. As she seemed
to grow worse, the doctor was sent for and at the first glance recognized the symptoms of a
premature confinement.

Her sufferings presently abated a little, but she was filled with a terrible anguish, a despairing
sinking, something like a presentiment, the mysterious touch of death. It is in these moments
when it comes so near to us that its breath chills our hearts.

The room was full of people. Little mother, buried in an armchair, was choking with grief.
The baron, his hands trembling, ran hither and thither, carrying things, consulting the doctor
and losing his head. Julien paced up and down, looking concerned, but perfectly calm, and Widow
Dentu stood at the foot of the bed with an appropriate expression, the expression of a woman
of experience whom nothing astonishes. The cook, Ludivine, and Aunt Lison remained discreetly
concealed behind the door of the lobby.

Toward morning Jeanne became worse, and as her involuntary screams escaped from between her
closed teeth, she thought incessantly of Rosalie, who had not suffered, who had hardly moaned,
who had borne her child without suffering and without difficulty, and in her wretched and troubled
mind she continually compared their conditions and cursed God, whom she had formerly thought
to be just. She rebelled at the wicked partiality of fate and at the wicked lies of those who
preach justice and goodness.

At times her sufferings were so great that her mind was a blank. She had neither strength,
life nor knowledge for anything but suffering.

All at once her sufferings ceased. The nurse and the doctor leaned over her and gave her all
attention. Presently she heard a little cry and, in spite of her weakness, she unconsciously
held out her arms. She was suddenly filled with joy, with a glimpse of a new-found happiness
which had just unfolded. Her child was born, she was soothed, happy, happy as she never yet
had been. Her heart and her body revived; she was now a mother. She felt that she was saved,
secure from all despair, for she had here something to love.

From now on she had but one thought--her child. She was a fanatical mother, all the more intense
because she had been deceived in her love, deceived in her hopes. She would sit whole days
beside the window, rocking the little cradle.

The baron and little mother smiled at this excess of tenderness, but Julien, whose habitual
routine had been interfered with and his overweening importance diminished by the arrival of
this noisy and all-powerful tyrant, unconsciously jealous of this mite of a man who had usurped
his place in the house, kept on saying angrily and impatiently: "How wearisome she is with
her brat!"

She became so obsessed by this affection that she would pass the entire night beside the cradle,
watching the child asleep. As she was becoming exhausted by this morbid life, taking no rest,
growing weaker and thinner and beginning to cough, the doctor ordered the child to be taken
from her. She got angry, wept, implored, but they were deaf to her entreaties. His nurse took
him every evening, and each night his mother would rise, and in her bare feet go to the door,
listen at the keyhole to see if he was sleeping quietly, did not wake up and wanted nothing.

Julien found her here one night when he came home late, after dining with the Fourvilles. After
that they locked her in her room to oblige her to stay in bed.

The baptism took place at the end of August. The baron was godfather and Aunt Lison godmother.
The child was named Pierre-Simon-Paul and called Paul for short.

At the beginning of September Aunt Lison left without any commotion. Her absence was as little
felt as her presence.

One evening after dinner the priest appeared. He seemed embarrassed as if he were burdened
by some mystery, and after some idle remarks, he asked the baroness and her husband to grant
him a short interview in private.

They all three walked slowly down the long avenue, talking with animation, while Julien, who
was alone with Jeanne, was astonished, disturbed and annoyed at this secret.

He accompanied the priest when he took his leave, and they went off together toward the church
where the Angelus was ringing.

As it was cool, almost cold, the others went into the drawing-room. They were all dozing when
Julien came in abruptly, his face red, looking very indignant.

From the door he called out to his parents-in-law, without remembering that Jeanne was there:
"Are you crazy, for God's sake! to go and throw away twenty thousand francs on that girl?"

No one replied, they were so astonished. He continued, bellowing with rage: "How can one be
so stupid as that? Do you wish to leave us without a sou?"

The baron, who had recovered his composure, attempted to stop him: "Keep still! Remember that
you are speaking before your wife."

But Julien was trembling with excitement: "As if I cared; she knows all about it, anyway. It
is robbing her."

Jeanne, bewildered, looked at him without understanding. She faltered: "What in the world is
the matter?"

Julien then turned toward her, to try and get her on his side as a partner who has been cheated
out of an unexpected fortune. He hurriedly told her about the conspiracy to marry off Rosalie
and about the gift of the Barville property, which was worth at least twenty thousand francs.
He said: "Your parents are crazy, my dear, crazy enough to be shut up! Twenty thousand francs!
twenty thousand francs! Why, they have lost their heads! Twenty thousand francs for a bastard!"

Jeanne listened without emotion and without anger, astonished at her own calmness, indifferent
now to everything but her own child.

The baron was raging, but could find nothing to say. He finally burst forth and, stamping his
foot, exclaimed: "Think of what you are saying; it is disgusting. Whose fault was it if we
had to give this girl-mother a dowry? Whose child is it? You would like to abandon it now!"

Julien, amazed at the baron's violence, looked at him fixedly. He then resumed in a calmer
tone: "But fifteen hundred francs would be quite enough. They all have children before they
are legally married. It makes no difference whose child it is, in any case. Instead of giving
one of your farms, to the value of twenty thousand francs, in addition to making the world
aware of what has happened, you should, to say the least, have had some regard for our name
and our position."

He spoke in a severe tone like a man who stood on his rights and was convinced of the logic
of his argument. The baron, disturbed at this unexpected discussion, stood there gaping at
him. Julien then, seeing his advantage, concluded: "Happily, nothing has yet been settled.
I know the young fellow who is going to marry her. He is an honest chap and we can make a satisfactory
arrangement with him. I will take charge of the matter."

And he went out immediately, fearing no doubt to continue the discussion, and pleased that
he had had the last word, a proof, he thought, that they acquiesced in his views.

As soon as he had left the room, however, the baron exclaimed: "Oh, that is going too far,
much too far!"

But Jeanne, happening to look up at her father's bewildered face, began to laugh with her clear,
ringing laugh of former days, when anything amused her. She said: "Father, father, did you
hear the tone in which he said: 'Twenty thousand francs?'"

Little mother, whose mirth was as ready as her tears, as she recalled her son-in-law's angry
expression, his indignant exclamations and his refusal to allow the girl whom he had led astray
to be given money that did not belong to him, delighted also at Jeanne's mirth, gave way to
little bursts of laughter till the tears came to her eyes. The baron caught the contagion,
and all three laughed to kill themselves as they used to do in the good old days.

As soon as they quieted down a little Jeanne said: "How strange it is that all this does not
affect me. I look upon him now as a stranger. I cannot believe that I am his wife. You see
how I can laugh at his--his--want of delicacy."

And without knowing why they all three embraced each other, smiling and happy.

Two days later, after breakfast, just as Julien had started away from the house on horseback,
a strapping young fellow from twenty-one to twenty-five years old, clad in a brand-new blue
blouse with wide sleeves buttoning at the wrist, slyly jumped over the gate, as though he had
been there awaiting his opportunity all the morning, crept along the Couillards' ditch, came
round the chateau, and cautiously approached the baron and his wife, who were still sitting
under the plane-tree.

He took off his cap and advanced, bowing in an awkward manner. As soon as he was close to them
he said: "Your servant, Monsieur le Baron, madame and the company." Then, as no one replied,
he said: "It is I, I am Desire Lecocq."

As the name conveyed nothing to them, the baron asked, "What do you want?"

Then, altogether upset at the necessity of explaining himself, the young fellow stuttered out
as he gazed alternately at his cap, which he held in his hands, and at the roof of the chateau:
"It was M'sieu le Cure who said something to me about this matter----" And then he stopped,
fearing he might say too much and compromise his own interests.

The other, lowering his voice, blurted out: "That matter of your maid--Rosalie----"

Jeanne, who had guessed what was coming, had risen and moved away with her infant in her arms.

"Come nearer," said the baron, pointing to the chair his daughter had just left. The peasant
sat down, murmuring: "You are very good." Then he waited as though he had no more to say. After
a long silence, he screwed up courage, and looking up at the sky, remarked: "There's fine weather
for the time of year. But the earth will be none the better for it, as the seed is already
sown." And then he was silent again.

The baron was growing impatient. He plunged right into the subject and said drily: "Then it
is you who are going to marry Rosalie?"

The man at once became uneasy, his Norman caution being on the alert. He replied with more
animation, but with a tinge of defiance: "That depends; perhaps yes, perhaps no; it depends."

The baron, annoyed at this hedging, exclaimed angrily: "Answer frankly, damn it! Was this what
you came here for? Yes or no! Will you marry her? Yes or no!"

The bewildered man looked steadfastly at his feet: "If it is as M'sieu le Cure said, I will
take her, but if it is as M'sieu Julien said, I will not take her."

"What did M. Julien tell you?"

"M'sieu Julien told me fifteen hundred francs and M'sieu le Cure told me that I should have
twenty thousand. I will do it for twenty thousand, but I will not do it for fifteen hundred."

The baroness, who was buried in her easy chair, began to giggle at the anxious expression of
the peasant, who, not understanding this frivolity, glanced at her angrily out of the corner
of his eye and waited in silence.

The baron, who was embarrassed at this bargaining, cut it short by saying: "I told M. le Cure
that you should have the Barville farm during your lifetime and that then it would revert to
the child. It is worth twenty thousand francs. I do not go back on my word. Is it settled?
Yes or no!"

The man smiled with a humble and satisfied expression, and suddenly becoming loquacious, said:
"Oh, in that case, I will not say no. That was all that stood in my way. When M'sieu le Cure
spoke to me, I was ready at once, by gosh! and I was very pleased to accommodate the baron
who was giving me that. I said to myself, 'Is it not true that when people are willing to do
each other favors, they can always find a way and can make it worth while?' But M'sieu Julien
came to see me, and it was only fifteen hundred francs. I said to myself: 'I must see about
that,' and so I came here. That is not to say that I did not trust you, but I wanted to know.
Short accounts make long friends. Is not that true, M'sieu le Baron?"

The baron interrupted him by asking, "When do you wish to get married?"

The man became timid again, very much embarrassed, and finally said, hesitatingly: "I will
not do it until I get a little paper."

This time the baron got angry: "Doggone it! you will have the marriage contract. That is the
best kind of paper."

But the peasant was stubborn: "Meanwhile I might take a little turn; it will not be dark for
a while."

The baron rose to make an end of the matter: "Answer yes or no at once. If you do not wish
her, say so; I have another suitor."

The fear of a rival terrified the crafty Norman. He suddenly made up his mind and held out
his hand, as after buying a cow, saying: "Put it there, M'sieu le Baron; it is a bargain. Whoever
draws back is a skunk!"

The baron shook his hand, then called out: "Ludivine!" The cook appeared at the window. "Bring
us a bottle of wine." They clinked glasses to seal the matter and the young peasant went off
with a light tread.

Nothing was said to Julien about this visit. The contract was drawn up with all secrecy and
as soon as the banns were published the wedding took place one Monday morning.

A neighbor carried the child to church, walking behind the bride and groom, as a sure sign
of good luck. And no one in all the district was surprised; they simply envied Desire Lecocq.
"He was born with a caul," they said, with a sly smile into which there entered no resentment.

Julien was terribly angry and made such a scene that his parents-in-law cut short their visit
to the "Poplars." Jeanne was only moderately sad at their departure, for little Paul had become
for her an inexhaustible source of happiness.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER IX

DEATH OF LA BARONNE

As Jeanne's health was quite restored, they determined to go and return the Fourvilles' visit
and also to call on the Marquis de Coutelier.

Julien had bought at a sale a new one-horse phaeton, so that they could go out twice a month.
They set out one fine December morning, and after driving for two hours across the plains of
Normandy, they began to descend a little slope into a little valley, the sides of which were
wooded, while the valley itself was cultivated. After an abrupt turn in the valley they saw
the Chateau of Vrillette, a wooded slope on one side of it and a large pond on the other, out
of which rose one of its walls and which was bounded by a wood of tall pine trees that formed
the other side of the valley.

Julien explained all the portions of the building to Jeanne, like one who knows his subject
thoroughly, and went into raptures over its beauty, adding; "It is full of game, this country.
The comte loves to hunt here. This is a true seignorial residence."

The hall door was opened and the pale comtesse appeared, coming forward to meet the visitors,
all smiles, and wearing a long-trained dress, like a chatelaine of olden times. She looked
a fitting lady of the lake, born to inhabit this fairy castle.

The comtesse took both Jeanne's hands, as if she had known her all her life, and made her sit
down beside her in a low chair, while Julien, all of whose forgotten elegance seemed to have
revived within the past five months, chatted and smiled quietly and familiarly.

The comtesse and he talked of their horseback rides. She was laughing at his manner of mounting
a horse and called him "Le Chevalier Trebuche," and he smiled also, having nicknamed her "The
Amazon Queen." A gun fired beneath the windows caused Jeanne to give a little scream. It was
the comte, who had killed a teal.

His wife called to him. A sound of oars was heard, a boat grinding against the stones, and
he appeared, enormous, booted, followed by two drenched dogs of a ruddy color like himself,
who lay down on the mat outside the door.

He seemed more at his ease in his own home, and was delighted to see his visitors. He put some
wood on the fire, sent for madeira and biscuits and then exclaimed suddenly: "Why, you will
take dinner with us, of course."

Jeanne, whose child was never out of her thoughts, declined. He insisted, and as she could
not be persuaded, Julien made a gesture of annoyance. She feared to arouse his ugly, quarrelsome
temper, and although she was very unhappy at the thought that she should not see Paul until
the next day, she consented to stay.

The afternoon was delightful. They first visited the springs which bubbled up at the foot of
a mossy rock and then took a row on the pond. At one end of the boat Julien and the comtesse,
wrapped in shawls, were smiling happily like those who have nothing left to wish for.

A huge fire was blazing in the spacious reception room, which imparted a sense of warmth and
contentment. The comte seized his wife in his arms and lifted her from the floor as though
she had been a child and gave her a hearty kiss on each cheek, like a man satisfied with the world.

Jeanne, smiling, looked at this good giant whom one would have thought was an ogre at the very
sight of his mustaches, and she thought: "How one may be deceived each day about everybody."
Then, almost involuntarily, she glanced at Julien standing in the doorway, looking horribly
pale and with his eyes fixed on the comte. She approached him and said in a low tone: "Are
you ill? What is the matter with you?" He answered her angrily: "Nothing. Let me alone! I was
cold."

When they went into the dining-room the count asked if he might let his dogs come in, and they
settled themselves one on either side of their master.

After dinner, as Jeanne and Julien were preparing to leave, M. de Fourville kept them a little
longer to look at some fishing by torchlight. When they finally set out, wrapped up in their
cloaks and some rugs they had borrowed, Jeanne said almost involuntarily: "What a fine man
that giant is!" Julien, who was driving, replied: "Yes, but he does not always restrain himself
before company."

A week later they called on the Couteliers, who were supposed to be the chief noble family
in the province. Their property of Remenil adjoined the large town of Cany. The new chateau
built in the reign of Louis XIV. was hidden in a magnificent park enclosed by walls. The ruins
of the old chateau could be seen on an eminence. They were ushered into a stately reception
room by men servants in livery. In the middle of the room a sort of column held an immense
bowl of Sevres ware and on the pedestal of the column an autograph letter from the king, under
glass, requested the Marquis Leopold-Herve-Joseph-Germer de Varneville de Rollebosc de Coutelier
to receive this present from his sovereign.

Jeanne and Julien were looking at this royal gift when the marquis and marquise entered the room.

They were very ceremonious people whose minds, sentiments and words seemed always to be on
stilts. They spoke without waiting for an answer, smiling complacently, appearing always to
be fulfilling the duty imposed on them by their position, of showing civilities to the inferior
nobility of the region.

Jeanne and Julien, somewhat taken aback, endeavored to be agreeable, but although they felt
too embarrassed to remain any longer, they did not know exactly how to take their leave. The
marquise herself put an end to the visit naturally and simply by bringing the conversation
to a close like a queen giving a dismissal.

On the way home Julien said: "If you like, we will make this our first and last call; the Fourvilles
are good enough for me." Jeanne was of the same opinion. December passed slowly and the shut-in
life began again as in the previous year. But Jeanne did not find it wearisome, as she was
always taken up with Paul, whom Julien looked at askance, uneasy and annoyed. Often when the
mother held the child in her arms, kissing it frantically as women do their children, she would
hold it up to its father, saying: "Give him a kiss; one would suppose you did not love him."
He would hardly touch with his lips the child's smooth forehead, walking all round it, as though
he did not wish to touch the restless little fists. Then he would walk away abruptly as though
from something distasteful.

The mayor, the doctor and the cure came to dinner occasionally, and sometimes it was the Fourvilles,
with whom they were becoming more and more intimate. The comte appeared to worship Paul. He
held him on his knees during the whole visit and sometimes during the whole afternoon, playing
with him and amusing him and then kissing him tenderly as mothers do. He always lamented that
he had no children of his own.

Comtesse Gilberte again mentioned the rides they all four were going to take together. Jeanne,
a little weary of the monotonous days and nights, was quite happy in anticipation of these
plans, and for a week amused herself making a riding habit.

They always set out two and two, the comtesse and Julien ahead, the count and Jeanne a hundred
feet behind them, talking quietly, like good friends, for such they had become through the
sympathy of their straightforward minds and simple hearts. The others often spoke in a low
tone, sometimes bursting into laughter and looking quickly at each other, as though their eyes
were expressing what they dared not utter. And they would suddenly set off at a gallop, impelled
by a desire to flee, to get away, far away.

Then Gilberte would seem to be growing irritable. Her sharp voice, borne on the breeze, occasionally
reached the ears of the loitering couple. The comte would smile and say to Jeanne: "She does
not always get out of bed the right side, that wife of mine."

One evening as they were coming home the comtesse was teasing her mount, spurring it and then
checking it abruptly. They heard Julien say several time: "Take care, take care; you will be
thrown." "So much the worse," she replied; "it is none of your business," in a hard clear tone
that resounded across the fields as though the words hung in the air.

The animal reared, plunged and champed the bit. The comte, uneasy, shouted: "Be careful, Gilberte!"
Then, as if in defiance, with one of those impulses of a woman whom nothing can stop, she struck
her horse brutally between the ears. The animal reared in anger, pawed the air with his front
feet and, landing again on his feet, gave a bound and darted across the plain at full speed.

First it crossed the meadow, then plunging into a ploughed field kicked up the damp rich earth
behind it, going so fast that one could hardly distinguish its rider. Julien remained transfixed
with astonishment, calling out in despair: "Madame, madame!" but the comte was rather annoyed,
and, bending forward on his heavy mount, he urged it forward and started out at such a pace,
spurring it on with his voice, his gestures and the spur, that the huge horseman seemed to
be carrying the heavy beast between his legs and to be lifting it up as if to fly. They went
at incredible speed, straight ahead, and Jeanne saw the outline of the wife and of the husband
fleeing getting smaller and disappearing in the distance, as if they were two birds pursuing
each other to the verge of the horizon.

Julien, approaching Jeanne slowly, murmured angrily: "I think she is crazy to-day." And they
set out together to follow their friends, who were now hidden by the rising ground.

At the end of about a quarter of an hour they saw them returning and presently joined them.
The comte, perspiring, his face red, but smiling, happy and triumphant, was holding his wife's
trembling horse in his iron grasp. Gilberte was pale, her face sad and drawn, and she was leaning
one hand on her husband's shoulder as if she were going to faint. Jeanne understood now that
the comte loved her madly.

After this the comtesse for some months seemed happier than she had ever been. She came to
the "Poplars" more frequently, laughed continually and kissed Jeanne impulsively. One might
have said that some mysterious charm had come into her life. Her husband was also quite happy
and never took his eyes off her. He said to Jeanne one evening: "We are very happy just now.
Gilberte has never been so nice as this. She never is out of humor, never gets angry. I feel
that she loves me; until now I was not sure of it."

Julien also seemed changed, no longer impatient, as though the friendship between the two families
had brought peace and happiness to both. The spring was singularly early and mild. Everything
seemed to be coming to life beneath the quickening rays of the sun. Jeanne was vaguely troubled
at this awakening of nature. Memories came to her of the early days of her love. Not that her
love for Julien was renewed; that was over, over forever. But all her being, caressed by the
breeze, filled with the fragrance of spring, was disturbed as though in response to some invisible
and tender appeal. She loved to be alone, to give herself up in the sunlight to all kinds of
vague and calm enjoyment which did not necessitate thinking.

One morning as she was in a reverie a vision came to her, a swift vision of the sunlit nook
amid the dark foliage in the little wood near Etretat. It was there that she had for the first
time trembled, when beside the young man who loved her then. It was there that he had uttered
for the first time the timid desire of his heart. It was there that she thought that she had
all at once reached the radiant future of her hopes. She wished to see this wood again, to
make a sort of sentimental and superstitious pilgrimage, as though a return to this spot might
somehow change the current of her life. Julien had been gone since daybreak, she knew not whither.
She had the little white horse, which she sometimes rode, saddled, and she set out. It was
one of those days when nothing seemed stirring, not a blade of grass, not a leaf. All seemed
wrapped in a golden mist beneath the blazing sun. Jeanne walked her horse, soothed and happy.

She descended into the valley which leads to the sea, between the great arches in the cliff
that are called the "Gates" of Etretat, and slowly reached the wood. The sunlight was streaming
through the still scanty foliage. She wandered about the little paths, looking for the spot.

All at once, as she was going along one of the lower paths, she perceived at the farther end
of it two horses tied to a tree and recognized them at once; they belonged to Gilberte and
Julien. The loneliness of the place was beginning to be irksome to her, and she was pleased
at this chance meeting, and whipped up her horse.

When she reached the two patient animals, who were probably accustomed to these long halts,
she called. There was no reply. A woman's glove and two riding whips lay on the beaten-down
grass. So they had no doubt sat down there awhile and then walked away leaving their horses tied.

She waited a quarter of an hour, twenty minutes, surprised, not understanding what could be
keeping them. She had dismounted. She sat there, leaning against a tree trunk. Suddenly a thought
came to her as she glanced again at the glove, the whips and the two horses left tied there,
and she sprang to her saddle with an irresistible desire to make her escape.

She started off at a gallop for the "Poplars." She was turning things over in her mind, trying
to reason, to put two and two together, to compare facts. How was it that she had not suspected
this sooner? How was it that she had not noticed anything? How was it she had not guessed the
reason of Julien's frequent absences, the renewal of his former attention to his appearance
and the improvement in his temper? She now recalled Gilberte's nervous abruptness, her exaggerated
affection and the kind of beaming happiness in which she seemed to exist latterly and that
so pleased the comte.

She reined in her horse, as she wanted to think, and the quick pace disturbed her ideas.

As soon as the first emotion was over she became almost calm, without jealousy or hatred, but
filled with contempt. She hardly gave Julien a thought; nothing he might do could astonish
her. But the double treachery of the comtesse, her friend, disgusted her. Everyone, then, was
treacherous, untruthful and false. And tears came to her eyes. One sometimes mourns lost illusions
as deeply as one does the death of a friend.

She resolved, however, to act as though she knew nothing, to close the doors of her heart to
all ordinary affection and to love no one but Paul and her parents and to endure other people
with an undisturbed countenance.

As soon as she got home she ran to her son, carried him up to her room and kissed him passionately
for an hour.

Julien came home to dinner, smiling and attentive, and appeared interested as he asked: "Are
not father and little mother coming this year?"

She was so grateful to him for this little attention that she almost forgave him for the discovery
she had made in the wood, and she was filled all of a sudden with an intense desire to see
without delay the two beings in the world whom she loved next to Paul, and passed the whole
evening writing to them to hasten their journey.

They promised to be there on the 20th of May and it was now the 7th.

She awaited their arrival with a growing impatience, as though she felt, in addition to her
filial affection, the need of opening her heart to honest hearts, to talk with frankness to
pure-minded people, devoid of all infamy, all of whose life, actions and thoughts had been
upright at all times.

What she now felt was a sort of moral isolation, amid all this immorality, and, although she
had learned suddenly to disseminate, although she received the comtesse with outstretched hand
and smiling lips, she felt this consciousness of hollowness, this contempt for humanity increasing
and enveloping her, and the petty gossip of the district gave her a still greater disgust,
a still lower opinion of her fellow creatures.

The immorality of the peasants shocked her, and this warm spring seemed to stir the sap in
human beings as well as in plants. Jeanne did not belong to the race of peasants who are dominated
by their lower instincts. Julien one day awakened her aversion anew by telling her a coarse
story that had been told to him and that he considered very amusing.

When the travelling carriage stopped at the door and the happy face of the baron appeared at
the window Jeanne was stirred with so deep an emotion, such a tumultuous feeling of affection
as she had never before experienced. But when she saw her mother she was shocked and almost
fainted. The baroness, in six months, had aged ten years. Her heavy cheeks had grown flabby
and purple, as though the blood were congested; her eyes were dim and she could no longer move
about unless supported under each arm. Her breathing was difficult and wheezing and affected
those near her with a painful sensation.

When Jeanne had taken them to their room, she retired to her own in order to have a good cry,
as she was so upset. Then she went to look for her father, and throwing herself into his arms,
she exclaimed, her eyes still full of tears: "Oh, how mother is changed! What is the matter
with her? Tell me, what is the matter?" He was much surprised and replied: "Do you think so?
What an idea! Why, no. I have never been away from her. I assure you that I do not think she
looks ill. She always looks like that."

That evening Julien said to his wife: "Your mother is in a pretty bad way. I think she will
not last long." And as Jeanne burst out sobbing, he became annoyed. "Come, I did not say there
was no hope for her. You always exaggerate everything. She is changed, that's all. She is no
longer young."

The baroness was not able to walk any distance and only went out for half an hour each day
to take one turn in her avenue and then she would sit on the bench. And when she felt unequal
to walking to the end of her avenue, she would say: "Let us stop; my hypertrophy is breaking
my legs today." She hardly ever laughed now as she did the previous year at anything that amused
her, but only smiled. As she could see to read excellently, she passed hours reading "Corinne"
or Lamartine's "Meditations." Then she would ask for her drawer of "souvenirs," and emptying
her cherished letters on her lap, she would place the drawer on a chair beside her and put
back, one by one, her "relics," after she had slowly gone over them. And when she was alone,
quite alone, she would kiss some of them, as one kisses in secret a lock of hair of a loved
one passed away.

Sometimes Jeanne, coming in abruptly, would find her weeping and would exclaim: "What is the
matter, little mother?" And the baroness, sighing deeply, would reply: "It is my 'relics' that
make me cry. They stir remembrances that were so delightful and that are now past forever,
and one is reminded of persons whom one had forgotten and recalls once more. You seem to see
them, to hear them and it affects you strangely. You will feel this later."

When the baron happened to come in at such times he would say gently: "Jeanne, dearie, take
my advice and burn your letters, all of them--your mother's, mine, everyone's. There is nothing
more dreadful, when one is growing old, than to look back to one's youth." But Jeanne also
kept her letters, was preparing a chest of "relics" in obedience to a sort of hereditary instinct
of dreamy sentimentality, although she differed from her mother in every other way.

The baron was obliged to leave them some days later, as he had some business that called him away.

One afternoon Jeanne took Paul in her arms and went out for a walk. She was sitting on a bank,
gazing at the infant, whom she seemed to be looking at for the first time. She could hardly
imagine him grown up, walking with a steady step, with a beard on his face and talking in a
big voice. She heard someone calling and raised her head. Marius came running toward her.

"Madame, Madame la Baronne is very bad!"

A cold chill seemed to run down her back as she started up and walked hurriedly toward the house.

As she approached she saw a number of persons grouped around the plane tree. She darted forward
and saw her mother lying on the ground with two pillows under her head. Her face was black,
her eyes closed and her breathing, which had been difficult for twenty years, now quite hushed.
The nurse took the child out of Jeanne's arms and carried it off.

Jeanne, with drawn, anxious face, asked: "What happened? How did she come to fall? Go for the
doctor, somebody." Turning round, she saw the old cure, who had heard of it in some way. He
offered his services and began rolling up the sleeves of his cassock. But vinegar, eau de cologne
and rubbing the invalid proved ineffectual.

"She should be undressed and put to bed," said the priest.

Joseph Couillard, the farmer, was there and old Simon and Ludivine. With the assistance of
Abbe Picot, they tried to lift the baroness, but after an attempt were obliged to bring a large
easy chair from the drawing-room and place her in it. In this way they managed to get her into
the house and then upstairs, where they laid her on her bed.

Joseph Couillard set out in hot haste for the doctor. As the priest was going to get the holy
oil, the nurse, who had "scented a death," as the servants say, and was on the spot, whispered
to him: "Do not put yourself out, monsieur; she is dead. I know all about these things."

Jeanne, beside herself, entreated them to do something. The priest thought it best to pronounce
the absolution.

They watched for two hours beside this lifeless, discolored body. Jeanne, on her knees, was
sobbing in an agony of grief.

When the door opened and the doctor appeared, Jeanne darted toward him, stammering out what
she knew of the accident, but seeing the nurse exchange a meaning glance with the doctor, she
stopped to ask him: "Is it serious? Do you think it is serious?"

He said presently: "I am afraid--I am afraid--it is all over. Be brave, be brave."

Jeanne, extending her arms, threw herself on her mother's body. Julien just then came in. He
stood there amazed, visibly annoyed, without any exclamation of sorrow, any appearance of grief,
taken so unawares that he had not time to prepare a suitable expression of countenance. He
muttered: "I was expecting it, I felt that the end was near." Then he took out his handkerchief,
wiped his eyes, knelt down, crossed himself, and then rising to his feet, attempted to raise
his wife. But she was clasping the dead body and kissing it, and it became necessary to carry
her away. She appeared to be out of her mind.

At the end of an hour she was allowed to come back. There was no longer any hope. The room
was arranged as a death chamber. Julien and the priest were talking in a low tone near the
window. It was growing dark. The priest came over to Jeanne and took her hands, trying to console
her. He spoke of the defunct, praised her in pious phrases and offered to pass the night in
prayer beside the body.

But Jeanne refused, amid convulsive sobs. She wished to be alone, quite alone on this last
night of farewell. Julien came forward: "But you must not do it; we will stay together." She
shook her head, unable to speak. At last she said: "It is my mother, my mother. I wish to watch
beside her alone." The doctor murmured: "Let her do as she pleases; the nurse can stay in the
adjoining room."

The priest and Julien consented, more interested in their own rest. Then Abbe Picot knelt down
in his turn, and as he rose and left the room, he said: "She was a saint" in the same tone
as he said "Dominus vobiscum."

The vicomte in his ordinary tone then asked: "Are you not going to eat something?" Jeanne did
not reply, not knowing he was speaking to her, and he repeated: "You had better eat something
to keep up your stomach." She replied in a bewildered manner: "Send at once for papa." And
he went out of the room to send someone on horseback to Rouen.

She remained plunged in a sort of motionless grief, seeing nothing, feeling nothing, understanding
nothing. She only wanted to be alone. Julien came back. He had dined and he asked her again:
"Won't you take something?" She shook her head. He sat down with an air of resignation rather
than sadness, without speaking, and they both sat there silent, till at length Julien arose,
and approaching Jeanne, said: "Would you like to stay alone now?" She took his hand impulsively
and replied: "Oh, yes! leave me!"

He kissed her forehead, murmuring: "I will come in and see you from time to time." He went
out with Widow Dentu, who rolled her easy chair into the next room.

Jeanne shut the door and opened the windows wide. She felt the soft breath from the mown hay
that lay in the moonlight on the lawn. It seemed to harrow her feelings like an ironical remark.

She went back to the bed, took one of the cold, inert hands and looked at her mother earnestly.
She seemed to be sleeping more peacefully than she had ever done, and the pale flame of the
tapers which flickered at every breath made her face appear to be alive, as if she had stirred.
Jeanne remembered all the little incidents of her childhood, the visits of little mother to
the "parloir" of the convent, the manner in which she handed her a little paper bag of cakes,
a multitude of little details, little acts, little caresses, words, intonations, familiar gestures,
the creases at the corner of her eyes when she laughed, the big sigh she gave when she sat down.

And she stood there looking at her, repeating half mechanically: "She is dead," and all the
horror of the word became real to her. It was mamma lying there--little mother--Mamma Adelaide
who was dead. She would never move about again, nor speak, nor laugh, nor sit at dinner opposite
little father. She would never again say: "Good-morning, Jeannette." She was dead!

And she fell on her knees in a paroxysm of despair, her hands clutching the sheet, her face
buried in the covers as she cried in a heartrending tone: "Oh, mamma, my poor mamma!" Then
feeling that she was losing her reason as she had done on the night when she fled across the
snow, she rose and ran to the window to drink in the fresh air. The soothing calmness of the
night entered her soul and she began to weep quietly.

Presently she turned back into the room and sat down again beside her mother. Other remembrances
came to her: those of her own life--Rosalie, Gilberte, the bitter disillusions of her heart.
Everything, then, was only misery, grief, unhappiness and death. Everyone tried to deceive,
everyone lied, everyone made you suffer and weep. Where could one find a little rest and happiness?
In another existence no doubt, when the soul is freed from the trials of earth. And she began
to ponder on this insoluble mystery.

A tender and curious thought came to her mind. It was to read over in this last watch, as though
they were a litany, the old letters that her mother loved. It seemed to her that she was about
to perform a delicate and sacred duty which would give pleasure to little mother in the other
world.

She rose, opened the writing desk and took from the lower drawer ten little packages of yellow
letters, tied and arranged in order, side by side. She placed them all on the bed over her
mother's heart from a sort of sentiment and began to read them. They were old letters that
savored of a former century. The first began, "My dear little granddaughter," then again "My
dear little girl," "My darling," "My dearest daughter," then "My dear child," "My dear Adelaide,"
"My dear daughter," according to the periods--childhood, youth or young womanhood. They were
all full of little insignificant details and tender words, about a thousand little matters,
those simple but important events of home life, so petty to outsiders: "Father has the grip;
poor Hortense burnt her finger; the cat, 'Croquerat,' is dead; they have cut down the pine
tree to the right of the gate; mother lost her prayerbook on the way home from church, she
thinks it was stolen."

All these details affected her. They seemed like revelations, as though she had suddenly entered
the past secret heart life of little mother. She looked at her lying there and suddenly began
to read aloud, to read to the dead, as though to distract, to console her.

And the dead woman appeared to be pleased.

Jeanne tossed the letters as she read them to the foot of the bed. She untied another package.
It was a new handwriting. She read: "I cannot do without your caresses. I love you so that
I am almost crazy."

That was all; no signature.

She put back the letter without understanding its meaning. The address was certainly "Madame
la Baronne Le Perthuis des Vauds."

Then she opened another: "Come this evening as soon as he goes out; we shall have an hour together.
I worship you." In another: "I passed the night longing in vain for you, longing to look into
your eyes, to press my lips to yours, and I am insane enough to throw myself from the window
at the thought that you are another's...."

Jeanne was perfectly bewildered. What did that mean? To whom, for whom, from whom were these
words of love?

She went on reading, coming across fresh impassioned declarations, appointments with warnings
as to prudence, and always at the end the six words: "Be sure to burn this letter!"

At last she opened an ordinary note, accepting an invitation to dinner, but in the same handwriting
and signed: "Paul d'Ennemare," whom the baron called, whenever he spoke of him, "My poor old
Paul," and whose wife had been the baroness' dearest friend.

Then a suspicion, which immediately became a certainty, flashed across Jeanne's mind: He had
been her mother's lover.

And, almost beside herself, she suddenly threw aside these infamous letters as she would have
thrown off some venomous reptile and ran to the window and began to cry piteously. Then, collapsing,
she sank down beside the wall, and hiding her face in the curtain so that no one should hear
her, she sobbed bitterly as if in hopeless despair.

She would have remained thus probably all night, if she had not heard a noise in the adjoining
room that made her start to her feet. It might be her father. And all the letters were lying
on the floor! He would have to open only one of them to know all! Her father!

She darted into the other room and seizing the letters in handfuls, she threw them all into
the fireplace, those of her grandparents as well as those of the lover; some that she had not
looked at and some that had remained tied up in the drawers of the desk. She then took one
of the tapers that burned beside the bed and set fire to this pile of letters. When they were
reduced to ashes she went back to the open window, as though she no longer dared to sit beside
the dead, and began to cry again with her face in her hands: "Oh, my poor mamma! oh, my poor
mamma!"

The stars were paling. It was the cool hour that precedes the dawn. The moon was sinking on
the horizon and turning the sea to mother of pearl. The recollection of the night she passed
at the window when she first came to the "Poplars" came to Jeanne's mind. How far away it seemed,
how everything was changed, how different the future now seemed!

The sky was becoming pink, a joyous, love-inspiring, enchanting pink. She looked at it in surprise,
as at some phenomenon, this radiant break of day, and asked herself if it were possible that,
on a planet where such dawns were found, there should be neither joy nor happiness.

A noise at the door made her start. It was Julien. "Well," he said, "are you not very tired?"

She murmured, "No," happy at being no longer alone. "Go and rest now," he said. She kissed
her mother a long, sad kiss; then she went to her room.

The next day passed in the usual attentions to the dead. The baron arrived toward evening.
He wept for some time.

The funeral took place the following day. After pressing a last kiss on her mother's icy forehead
and seeing the coffin nailed down, Jeanne left the room. The invited guests would soon arrive.

Gilberte was the first to come, and she threw herself sobbing on her friend's shoulder. Women
in black presently entered the room one after another, people whom Jeanne did not know. The
Marquise de Coutelier and the Vicomtesse de Briseville embraced her. She suddenly saw Aunt
Lison gliding in behind her. She turned round and kissed her tenderly.

Julien came in, dressed all in black, elegant, very important, pleased at seeing so many people.
He asked his wife some question in a low tone and added confidentially: "All the nobility are
here; it will be a fine affair." And he walked away, gravely bowing to the ladies. Aunt Lison
and Comtesse Gilberte alone remained with Jeanne during the service for the dead. The comtesse
kissed her repeatedly, exclaiming: "My poor dear, my poor dear!"

When Comte de Fourville came to fetch his wife he was also crying as though it were for his
own mother.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER X

RETRIBUTION

The following days were very sad and dreary, as they always are when there has been a death
in the house. And, in addition, Jeanne was crushed at the thought of what she had discovered;
her last shred of confidence had been destroyed with the destruction of her faith. Little father,
after a short stay, went away to try and distract his thoughts from his grief, and the large
house, whose former masters were leaving it from time to time, resumed its usual calm and monotonous
course.

Then Paul fell ill, and Jeanne was almost beside herself, not sleeping for ten days, and scarcely
tasting food. He recovered, but she was haunted by the idea that he might die. Then what should
she do? What would become of her? And there gradually stole into her heart the hope that she
might have another child. She dreamed of it, became obsessed with the idea. She longed to realize
her old dream of seeing two little children around her; a boy and a girl.

But since the affair of Rosalie she and Julien had lived apart. A reconciliation seemed impossible
in their present situation. Julien loved some one else, she knew it; and the very thought of
suffering his approach filled her with repugnance. She had no one left whom she could consult.
She resolved to go and see Abbe Picot and tell him, under the seal of confession, all that
weighed upon her mind in this matter.

He was reading from his breviary in his little garden planted with fruit trees when she arrived.

After a few minutes' conversation on indifferent matters, she faltered, her color rising: "I
want to confess, Monsieur l'Abbe."

He looked at her in astonishment, as he pushed his spectacles back on his forehead; then he
began to laugh. "You surely have no great sins on your conscience." This embarrassed her greatly,
and she replied: "No, but I want to ask your advice on a subject that is so--so--so painful
that I dare not mention it casually."

He at once laid aside his jovial manner and assumed his priestly attitude. "Well, my child,
I will listen to you in the confessional; come along."

But she held back, undecided, restrained by a kind of scruple at speaking of these matters,
of which she was half ashamed, in the seclusion of an empty church.

"Or else, no--Monsieur le Cure--I might--I might--if you wish, tell you now what brings me
here. Let us go and sit over there, in your little arbor."

They walked toward it, and Jeanne tried to think how she could begin. They sat down in the
arbor, and then, as if she were confessing herself, she said: "Father----" then hesitated,
and repeated: "Father----" and was silent from emotion.

He waited, his hands crossed over his paunch. Seeing her embarrassment, he sought to encourage
her: "Why, my daughter, one would suppose you were afraid; come, take courage."

She plucked up courage, like a coward who plunges headlong into danger. "Father, I should like
to have another child." He did not reply, as he did not understand her. Then she explained,
timid and unable to express herself clearly:

"I am all alone in life now; my father and my husband do not get along together; my mother
is dead; and--and----" she added with a shudder, "the other day I nearly lost my son! What
would have become of me then?"

She was silent. The priest, bewildered, was gazing at her. "Come, get to the point of your
subject."

"I want to have another child," she said. Then he smiled, accustomed to the coarse jokes of
the peasants, who were not embarrassed in his presence, and he replied, with a sly motion of
his head:

"Well, it seems to me that it depends only on yourself."

She raised her candid eyes to his face, and said, hesitating with confusion: "But--but--you
understand that since--since--what you know about--about that maid--my husband and I have lived--have
lived quite apart."

Accustomed to the promiscuity and undignified relations of the peasants, he was astonished
at the revelation. All at once he thought he guessed at the young woman's real desire, and
looking at her out of the corner of his eye, with a heart full of benevolence and of sympathy
for her distress, he said: "Oh, I understand perfectly. I know that your widowhood must be
irksome to you. You are young and in good health. It is natural, quite natural."

He smiled, bearing out his easy-going character of a country priest, and tapping Jeanne lightly
on the hand, he said: "That is permissible, very permissible indeed, according to the commandments.
You are married, are you not? Well, then, what is the harm?"

She, in her turn, had not understood his hidden meaning; but as soon as she saw through it,
she blushed scarlet, shocked, and with tears in her eyes exclaimed: "Oh, Monsieur le Cure,
what are you saying? What are you thinking of? I swear to you--I swear to you----" And sobs
choked her words.

He was surprised and sought to console her: "Come, I did not mean to hurt your feelings. I
was only joking a little; there is no harm in that when one is decent. But you may rely on
me, you may rely on me. I will see M. Julien."

She did not know what to say. She now wished to decline this intervention, which she thought
clumsy and dangerous, but she did not dare to do so, and she went away hurriedly, faltering:
"I am grateful to you, Monsieur le Cure."

A week passed. One day at dinner Julien looked at her with a peculiar expression, a certain
smiling curve of the lips that she had noticed when he was teasing her. He was even almost
ironically gallant toward her, and as they were walking after dinner in little mother's avenue,
he said in a low tone: "We seem to have made up again."

She did not reply, but continued to look on the ground at a sort of track that was almost effaced
now that the grass was sprouting anew. They were the footprints of the baroness, which were
vanishing as does a memory. And Jeanne was plunged in sadness; she felt herself lost in life,
far away from everyone.

"As for me, I ask nothing better. I was afraid of displeasing you," continued Julien.

The sun was going down, the air was mild. A longing to weep came over Jeanne, one of those
needs of unbosoming oneself to a kindred spirit, of unbending and telling one's griefs. A sob
rose in her throat; she opened her arms and fell on Julien's breast, and wept. He glanced down
in surprise at her head, for he could not see her face which was hidden on his shoulder. He
supposed that she still loved him, and placed a condescending kiss on the back of her head.

They entered the house and he followed her to her room. And thus they resumed their former
relations, he, as a not unpleasant duty, and she, merely tolerating him.

She soon noticed, however, that his manner had changed, and one day with her lips to his, she
murmured: "Why are you not the same as you used to be?"

"Because I do not want any more children," he said jokingly.

She started. "Why not?"

He appeared greatly surprised. "Eh, what's that you say? Are you crazy? No, indeed! One is
enough, always crying and bothering everyone. Another baby! No, thank you!"

At the end of a month she told the news to everyone, far and wide, with the exception of Comtesse
Gilberte, from reasons of modesty and delicacy.

What the priest had foreseen finally came to pass. She became enceinte. Then, filled with an
unspeakable happiness, she locked her door every night when she retired, vowing herself from
henceforth to eternal chastity, in gratitude to the vague divinity she adored.

She was now almost quite happy again. Her children would grow up and love her; she would grow
old quietly, happy and contented, without troubling herself about her husband.

Toward the end of September, Abbe Picot called on a visit of ceremony to introduce his successor,
a young priest, very thin, very short, with an emphatic way of talking, and with dark circles
round his sunken eyes.

The old abbe had been appointed Dean of Goderville.

Jeanne was really sorry to lose the old man, who had been associated with all her recollections
as a young woman. He had married her, baptized Paul, and buried the baroness. She could not
imagine Etouvent without Abbe Picot and his paunch passing along by the farms, and she loved
him because he was cheerful and natural.

But he did not seem very cheerful at the thought of his promotion. "It is a wrench, it is a
wrench, madame la comtesse. I have been here for eighteen years. Oh, the place does not bring
in much, and is not wealthy. The men have no more religion than they need, and the women, look
you, the women have no morals. But nevertheless, I loved it."

The new cure appeared impatient, and said abruptly: "When I am here all that will have to be
changed." He looked like an angry boy, thin and frail in his somewhat worn, though clean cassock.

Abbe Picot looked at him sideways, as he did when he was in a joking mood, and said: "You see,
abbe, in order to prevent those happenings, you will have to chain up your parishioners; and
even that would not be of much use." The little priest replied sharply: "We shall see." And
the older man smiled as he took a pinch of snuff, and said: "Age will calm you down, abbe,
and experience also. You will drive away from the church the remaining faithful ones, and that
is all the good it will do. In this district they are religious, but pig-headed; be careful.
Faith, when I see a girl come to confess who looks rather stout, I say to myself: 'She is bringing
me a new parishioner,' and I try to get her married. You cannot prevent them from making mistakes;
but you can go and look for the man, and prevent him from deserting the mother. Get them married,
abbe, get them married, and do not trouble yourself about anything else."

"We think differently," said the young priest rudely; "it is useless to insist." And Abbe Picot
once more began to regret his village, the sea which he saw from his parsonage, the little
valleys where he walked while repeating his breviary, glancing up at the boats as they passed.

As the two priests took their leave, the old man kissed Jeanne, who was on the verge of tears.

A week later Abbe Tolbiac called again. He spoke of reforms which he intended to accomplish,
as a prince might have done on taking possession of a kingdom. Then he requested the vicomtesse
not to miss the service on Sunday, and to communicate a all the festivals. "You and I," he
said, "we are at the head of the district; we must rule it and always set them an example to
follow. We must be of one accord so that we may be powerful and respected. The church and the
chateau in joining forces will make the peasants obey and fear us."

Jeanne's religion was all sentiment; she had all a woman's dream faith, and if she attended
at all to her religious duties, it was from a habit acquired at the convent, the baron's advanced
ideas having long since overthrown her convictions. Abbe Picot contented himself with what
observances she gave him, and never blamed her. But his successor, not seeing her at mass the
preceding Sunday, had come to call, uneasy and stern.

She did not wish to break with the parsonage, and promised, making up her mind to be assiduous
in attendance the first few weeks, out of politeness.

Little by little, however, she got into the habit of going to church, and came under the influence
of this delicate, upright and dictatorial abbe. A mystic, he appealed to her in his enthusiasm
and zeal. He set in vibration in her soul the chord of religious poetry that all women possess.
His unyielding austerity, his disgust for ordinary human interests, his love of God, his youthful
and untutored inexperience, his harsh words, and his inflexible will, gave Jeanne an idea of
the stuff martyrs were made of; and she let herself be carried away, all disillusioned as she
was, by the fanaticism of this child, the minister of God.

He led her to Christ, the consoler, showing her how the joy of religion will calm all sorrow;
and she knelt at the confessional, humbling herself, feeling herself small and weak in presence
of this priest, who appeared to be about fifteen.

He was, however, very soon detested in all the countryside. Inflexibly severe toward himself,
he was implacably intolerant toward others, and the one thing that especially roused his wrath
and indignation was love. The young men and girls looked at each other slyly across the church,
and the old peasants who liked to joke about such things disapproved his severity. All the
parish was in a ferment. Soon the young men all stopped going to church.

The cure dined at the chateau every Thursday, and often came during the week to chat with his
penitent. She became enthusiastic like himself, talked about spiritual matters, handling all
the antique and complicated arsenal of religious controversy.

They walked together along the baroness' avenue, talking of Christ and the apostles, the Virgin
Mary and the Fathers of the Church as though they were personally acquainted with them.

Julien treated the new priest with great respect, saying constantly: "That priest suits me,
he does not back down." And he went to confession and communion, setting a fine example. He
now went to the Fourvilles' nearly every day, gunning with the husband, who was never happy
without him, and riding with the comtesse, in spite of rain and storm. The comte said: "They
are crazy about riding, but it does my wife good."

The baron returned to the chateau about the middle of November. He was changed, aged, faded,
filled with a deep sadness. And his love for his daughter seemed to have gained in strength,
as if these few months of dreary solitude had aggravated his need of affection, confidence
and tenderness. Jeanne did not tell him about her new ideas, and her friendship for the Abbe
Tolbiac. The first time he saw the priest he conceived a great aversion to him. And when Jeanne
asked him that evening how he liked him, he replied: "That man is an inquisitor! He must be
very dangerous."

When he learned from the peasants, whose friend he was, of the harshness and violence of the
young priest, of the kind of persecution which he carried on against all human and natural
instincts, he developed a hatred toward him. He, himself, was one of the old race of natural
philosophers who bowed the knee to a sort of pantheistic Divinity, and shrank from the catholic
conception of a God with bourgeois instincts, Jesuitical wrath, and tyrannical revenge. To
him reproduction was the great law of nature, and he began from farm to farm an ardent campaign
against this intolerant priest, the persecutor of life.

Jeanne, very much worried, prayed to the Lord, entreated her father; but he always replied:
"We must fight such men as that, it is our duty and our right. They are not human."

And he repeated, shaking his long white locks: "They are not human; they understand nothing,
nothing, nothing. They are moving in a morbid dream; they are anti-physical." And he pronounced
the word "anti-physical" as though it were a malediction.

The priest knew who his enemy was, but as he wished to remain ruler of the chateau and of Jeanne,
he temporized, sure of final victory. He was also haunted by a fixed idea. He had discovered
by chance the amours of Julien and Gilberte, and he desired to put a stop to them at all costs.

He came to see Jeanne one day and, after a long conversation on spiritual matters, he asked
her to give her aid in helping him to fight, to put an end to the evil in her own family, in
order to save two souls that were in danger.

She did not understand, and did not wish to know. He replied: "The hour has not arrived. I
shall see you some other time." And he left abruptly.

The winter was coming to a close, a rotten winter, as they say in the country, damp and mild.
The abbe called again some days later and hinted mysteriously at one of those shameless intrigues
between persons whose conduct should be irreproachable. It was the duty, he said, of those
who were aware of the facts to use every means to bring it to an end. He took Jeanne's hand
and adjured her to open her eyes and understand and lend him her aid.

This time she understood, but she was silent, terrified at the thought of all that might result
in the house that was now peaceful, and she pretended not to understand. Then he spoke out clearly.

She faltered: "What do you wish me to do, Monsieur l'Abbe?"

"Anything, rather than permit this infamy. Anything, I say. Leave him. Flee from this impure
house!"

"But I have no money; and then I have no longer any courage; and, besides, how can I go without
any proof? I have not the right to do so."

The priest arose trembling: "That is cowardice, madame; I am mistaken in you. You are unworthy
of God's mercy!"

She fell on her knees: "Oh, I pray you not to leave me, tell me what to do!"

"Open M. de Fourville's eyes," he said abruptly. "It is his place to break up this intrigue."

This idea filled her with terror. "Why, he would kill them, Monsieur l'Abbe! And I should be
guilty of denouncing them! Oh, never that, never!"

He raised his hand as if to curse her in his fury: "Remain in your shame and your crime; for
you are more guilty than they are. You are the complaisant wife! There is nothing more for
me to do here." And he went off so furious that he trembled all over.

She followed him, distracted and ready to do as he suggested. But he strode along rapidly,
shaking his large blue umbrella in his rage. He perceived Julien standing outside the gate
superintending the lopping of the trees, so he turned to the left to go across the Couillard
farm, and he said: "Leave me alone, madame, I have nothing further to say to you."

Jeanne was entreating him to give her a few days for reflection, and then if he came back to
the chateau she would tell him what she had done, and they could take counsel together.

Right in his road, in the middle of the farmyard, a group of children, those of the house and
some neighbor's children, were standing around the kennel of Mirza, the dog, looking curiously
at something with silent and concentrated attention. In the midst of them stood the baron,
his hands behind his back, also looking on with curiosity. One would have taken him for a schoolmaster.
When he saw the priest approaching, he moved away so as not to have to meet him and speak to him.

The priest did not call again; but the following Sunday from the pulpit he hurled imprecations,
curses and threats against the chateau, anathematizing the baron, and making veiled allusions,
but timidly, to Julien's latest intrigue. The vicomte was furious, but the dread of a shocking
scandal kept him silent. At each service thereafter the priest declared his indignation, predicting
the approach of the hour when God would smite all his enemies.

Julien wrote a firm, but respectful letter to the archbishop; the abbe was threatened with
suspension. He was silent thereafter.

Gilberte and Julien now frequently met him during their rides reading his breviary, but they
turned aside so as not to pass him by. Spring had come and reawakened their love. As the foliage
was still sparse and the grass damp, they used to meet in a shepherd's movable hut that had
been deserted since autumn. But one day when they were leaving it, they saw the Abbe Tolbiac,
almost hidden in the sea rushes on the slope.

"We must leave our horses in the ravine," said Julien, "as they can be seen from a distance
and would betray us." One evening as they were coming home together to La Vrillette, where
they were to dine with the comte, they met the cure of Etouvent coming out of the chateau.
He stepped to the side of the road to let them pass, and bowed without their eyes meeting.
They were uneasy for a few moments, but soon forgot it.

One afternoon, Jeanne was reading beside the fire while a storm of wind was raging outside,
when she suddenly perceived Comte Fourville coming on foot at such a pace that she thought
some misfortune had happened.

She ran downstairs to meet him, and when she saw him she thought he must be crazy. He wore
a large quilted cap that he wore only at home, his hunting jacket, and looked so pale that
his red mustache, usually the color of his skin, now seemed like a flame. His eyes were haggard,
rolling as though his mind were vacant.

He stammered: "My wife is here, is she not?" Jeanne, losing her presence of mind, replied:
"Why, no, I have not seen her to-day."

He sat down as if his legs had given way. He then took off his cap and wiped his forehead with
his handkerchief mechanically several times. Then starting up suddenly, he approached Jeanne,
his hands stretched out, his mouth open, as if to speak, to confide some great sorrow to her.
Then he stopped, looked at her fixedly and said as though he were wandering: "But it is your
husband--you also----" And he fled, going toward the sea.

Jeanne ran after him, calling him, imploring him to stop, her heart beating with apprehension
as she thought: "He knows all! What will he do? Oh, if he only does not find them!"

But she could not come up to him, and he disregarded her appeals. He went straight ahead without
hesitation, straight to his goal. He crossed the ditch, then, stalking through the sea rushes
like a giant, he reached the cliff.

Jeanne, standing on the mound covered with trees, followed him with her eyes until he was out
of sight. Then she went into the house, distracted with grief.

He had turned to the right and started to run. Threatening waves overspread the sea, big black
clouds were scudding along madly, passing on and followed by others, each of them coming down
in a furious downpour. The wind whistled, moaned, laid the grass and the young crops low and
carried away big white birds that looked like specks of foam and bore them far into the land.

The hail which followed beat in the comte's face, filling his ears with noise and his heart
with tumult.

Down yonder before him was the deep gorge of the Val de Vaucotte. There was nothing before
him but a shepherd's hut beside a deserted sheep pasture. Two horses were tied to the shafts
of the hut on wheels. What might not happen to one in such a tempest as this?

As soon as he saw them the comte crouched on the ground and crawled along on his hands and
knees as far as the lonely hut and hid himself beneath the hut that he might not be seen through
the cracks. The horses on seeing him became restive. He slowly cut their reins with the knife
which he held open in his hand, and a sudden squall coming up, the animals fled, frightened
at the hail which rattled on the sloping roof of the wooden hut and made it shake on its wheels.

The comte then kneeling upright, put his eye to the bottom of the door and looked inside. He
did not stir; he seemed to be waiting.

A little time elapsed and then he suddenly rose to his feet, covered with mud from head to
foot. He frantically pushed back the bolt which closed the hut on the outside, and seizing
the shafts, he began to shake the hut as though he would break it to pieces. Then all at once
he got between the shafts, bending his huge frame, and with a desperate effort dragged it along
like an ox, panting as he went. He dragged it, with whoever was in it, toward the steep incline.

Those inside screamed and banged with their fists on the door, not understanding what was going on.

When he reached the top of the cliff he let go the fragile dwelling, which began to roll down
the incline, going ever faster and faster, plunging, stumbling like an animal and striking
the ground with its shafts.

An old beggar hidden in a ditch saw it flying over his head and heard frightful screams coming
from the wooden box.

All at once a wheel was wrenched off and it fell on its side and began to roll like a ball,
as a house torn from its foundations might roll from the summit of a mountain. Then, reaching
the ledge of the last ravine, it described a circle, and, falling to the bottom, burst open
as an egg might do. It was no sooner smashed on the stones than the old beggar, who had seen
it going past, went down toward it slowly amid the rushes, and with the customary caution of
a peasant, not daring to go directly to the shattered hut, he went to the nearest farm to tell
of the accident.

They all ran to look at it and raised the wreck of the hut. They found two bodies, bruised,
crushed and bleeding. The man's forehead was split open and his whole face crushed; the woman's
jaw was hanging, dislocated in one of the jolts, and their shattered limbs were soft as pulp.

"What were they doing in that shanty?" said a woman.

The old beggar then said that they had apparently taken refuge in it to get out of the storm
and that a furious squall must have blown the hut over the cliff. He said he had intended to
take shelter there himself, when he saw the horses tied to it, and understood that some one
else must be inside. "But for that," he added in a satisfied tone, "I might have rolled down
in it." Some one remarked: "Would not that have been a good thing?"

The old man, in a furious rage, said: "Why would it have been a good thing? Because I am poor
and they are rich! Look at them now." And trembling, ragged and dripping with rain, he pointed
to the two dead bodies with his hooked stick and exclaimed: "We are all alike when we get to this."

The comte, as soon as he saw the hut rolling down the steep slope, ran off at full speed through
the blinding storm. He ran in this way for several hours, taking short cuts, leaping across
ditches, breaking through the hedges, and thus got back home at dusk, not knowing how himself.

The frightened servants were awaiting his return and told him that the two horses had returned
riderless some little time before, that of Julien following the other one.

Then M. de Fourville reeled and in a choked voice said: "Something must have happened to them
in this dreadful weather. Let every one help to look for them."

He started off himself, but he was no sooner out of sight than he concealed himself in a clump
of bushes, watching the road along which she whom he even still loved with an almost savage
passion was to return dead, dying or maybe crippled and disfigured forever.

And soon a carriole passed by carrying a strange burden.

It stopped at the chateau and passed through the gate. It was that, it was she. But a fearful
anguish nailed him to the spot, a fear to know the worst, a dread of the truth, and he did
not stir, hiding as a hare, starting at the least sound.

He waited thus an hour, two hours perhaps. The buggy did not come out. He concluded that his
wife was expiring, and the thought of seeing her, of meeting her gaze filled him with so much
horror that he suddenly feared to be discovered in his hiding place and of being compelled
to return and be present at this agony, and he then fled into the thick of the wood. Then all
of a sudden it occurred to him that she perhaps might be needing his care, that no one probably
could properly attend to her. Then he returned on his tracks, running breathlessly.

On entering the chateau he met the gardener and called out to him, "Well?" The man did not
dare answer him. Then M. de Fourville almost roared at him: "Is she dead?" and the servant
stammered: "Yes, M. le Comte."

He experienced a feeling of immense relief. His blood seemed to cool and his nerves relax somewhat
of their extreme tension, and he walked firmly up the steps of his great hallway.

The other wagon had reached "The Poplars." Jeanne saw it from afar. She descried the mattress;
she guessed that a human form was lying upon it, and understood all. Her emotion was so vivid
that she swooned and fell prostrate.

When she regained consciousness her father was holding her head and bathing her temples with
vinegar. He said hesitatingly: "Do you know?" She murmured: "Yes, father." But when she attempted
to rise she found herself unable to do so, so intense was her agony.

That very night she gave birth to a stillborn infant, a girl.

Jeanne saw nothing of the funeral of Julien; she knew nothing of it. She merely noticed at
the end of a day or two that Aunt Lison was back, and in her feverish dreams which haunted
her she persistently sought to recall when the old maiden lady had left "The Poplars," at what
period and under what circumstances. She could not make this out, even in her lucid moments,
but she was certain of having seen her subsequent to the death of "little mother."

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XI

THE DEVELOPMENT OF PAUL

Jeanne did not leave her room for three months and was so wan and pale that no one thought
she would recover. But she picked up by degrees. Little father and Aunt Lison never left her;
they had both taken up their abode at "The Poplars." The shock of Julien's death had left her
with a nervous malady. The slightest sound made her faint and she had long swoons from the
most insignificant causes.

She had never asked the details of Julien's death. What did it matter to her? Did she not know
enough already? Every one thought it was an accident, but she knew better, and she kept to
herself this secret which tortured her: the knowledge of his infidelity and the remembrance
of the abrupt and terrible visit of the comte on the day of the catastrophe.

And now she was filled with tender, sweet and melancholy recollections of the brief evidences
of love shown her by her husband. She constantly thrilled at unexpected memories of him, and
she seemed to see him as he was when they were betrothed and as she had known him in the hours
passed beneath the sunlight in Corsica. All his faults diminished, all his harshness vanished,
his very infidelities appeared less glaring in the widening separation of the closed tomb.
And Jeanne, pervaded by a sort of posthumous gratitude for this man who had held her in his
arms, forgave all the suffering he had caused her, to remember only moments of happiness they
had passed together. Then, as time went on and month followed month, covering all her grief
and reminiscences with forgetfulness, she devoted herself entirely to her son.

He became the idol, the one thought of the three beings who surrounded him, and he ruled as
a despot. A kind of jealousy even arose among his slaves. Jeanne watched with anxiety the great
kisses he gave his grandfather after a ride on his knee, and Aunt Lison, neglected by him as
she had been by every one else and treated often like a servant by this little tyrant who could
scarcely speak as yet, would go to her room and weep as she compared the slight affection he
showed her with the kisses he gave his mother and the baron.

Two years passed quietly, and at the beginning of the third winter it was decided that they
should go to Rouen to live until spring, and the whole family set out. But on their arrival
in the old damp house, that had been shut up for some time, Paul had such a severe attack of
bronchitis that his three relatives in despair declared that he could not do without the air
of "The Poplars." They took him back there and he got well.

Then began a series of quiet, monotonous years. Always around the little one, they went into
raptures at everything he did. His mother called him Poulet, and as he could not pronounce
the word, he said "Pol," which amused them immensely, and the nickname of "Poulet" stuck to him.

The favorite occupation of his "three mothers," as the baron called his relatives, was to see
how much he had grown, and for this purpose they made little notches in the casing of the drawing-room
door, showing his progress from month to month. This ladder was called "Poulet's ladder," and
was an important affair.

A new individual began to play a part in the affairs of the household--the dog "Massacre,"
who became Paul's inseparable companion.

Rare visits were exchanged with the Brisevilles and the Couteliers. The mayor and the doctor
alone were regular visitors. Since the episode of the mother dog and the suspicion Jeanne had
entertained of the priest on the occasion of the terrible death of the comtesse and Julien,
Jeanne had not entered the church, angry with a divinity that could tolerate such ministers.

The church was deserted and the priest came to be looked on as a sorcerer because he had, so
they said, driven out an evil spirit from a woman who was possessed, and although fearing him
the peasants came to respect him for this occult power as well as for the unimpeachable austerity
of his life.

When he met Jeanne he never spoke. This condition of affairs distressed Aunt Lison, and when
she was alone, quite alone with Paul, she talked to him about God, telling him the wonderful
stories of the early history of the world. But when she told him that he must love Him very
much, the child would say: "Where is He, auntie?" "Up there," she would say, pointing to the
sky; "up there, Poulet, but do not say so." She was afraid of the baron.

One day, however, Poulet said to her: "God is everywhere, but He is not in church." He had
told his grandfather of his aunt's wonderful revelations.

When Paul was twelve years old a great difficulty arose on the subject of his first communion.

Lison came to Jeanne one morning and told her that the little fellow should no longer be kept
without religious instruction and from his religious duties. His mother, troubled and undecided,
hesitated, saying that there was time enough. But a month later, as she was returning a call
at the Brisevilles', the comtesse asked her casually if Paul was going to make his first communion
that year. Jeanne, unprepared for this, answered, "Yes," and this simple word decided her,
and without saying a word to her father, she asked Aunt Lison to take the boy to the catechism
class.

All went well for a month, but one day Paul came home with a hoarseness and the following day
he coughed. On inquiry his mother learned that the priest had sent him to wait till the lesson
was over at the door of the church, where there was a draught, because he had misbehaved. So
she kept him at home and taught him herself. But the Abbe Tobiac, despite Aunt Lison's entreaties,
refused to admit him as a communicant on the ground that he was not thoroughly taught.

The same thing occurred the following year, and the baron angrily swore that the child did
not need to believe all that tomfoolery, so it was decided that he should be brought up as
a Christian, but not as an active Catholic, and when he came of age he could believe as he pleased.

The Brisevilles ceased to call on her and Jeanne was surprised, knowing the punctiliousness
of these neighbors in returning calls, but the Marquise de Coutelier haughtily told her the
reason. Considering herself, in virtue of her husband's rank and fortune, a sort of queen of
the Norman nobility, the marquise ruled as a queen, said what she thought, was gracious or
the reverse as occasion demanded, admonishing, restoring to favor, congratulating whenever
she saw fit. So when Jeanne came to see her, this lady, after a few chilling remarks, said
drily: "Society is divided into two classes: those who believe in God and those who do not
believe in Him. The former, even the humblest, are our friends, our equals; the latter are
nothing to us."

Jeanne, perceiving the insinuation, replied: "But may one not believe in God without going
to church?"

"No, madame," answered the marquise. "The faithful go to worship God in His church, just as
one goes to see people in their homes."

Jeanne, hurt, replied: "God is everywhere, madame. As for me, who believes from the bottom
of my heart in His goodness, I no longer feel His presence when certain priests come between
Him and me."

The marquise rose. "The priest is the standard bearer of the Church, madame. Whoever does not
follow the standard is opposed to Him and opposed to us."

Jeanne had risen in her turn and said, trembling: "You believe, madame, in a partisan God.
I believe in the God of upright people." She bowed and took her leave.

The peasants also blamed her among themselves for not having let Poulet make his first communion.
They themselves never attended service or took the sacrament unless it might be at Easter,
according to the rule ordained by the Church; but for boys it was quite another thing, and
they would have all shrunk in horror at the audacity of bringing up a child outside this recognized
law, for religion is religion.

She saw how they felt and was indignant at heart at all these discriminations, all these compromises
with conscience, this general fear of everything, the real cowardice of all hearts and the
mask of respectability assumed in public.

The baron took charge of Paul's studies and made him study Latin, his mother merely saying:
"Above all things, do not get over tired."

As soon as the boy was at liberty he went down to work in the garden with his mother and his aunt.

He now loved to dig in the ground, and all three planted young trees in the spring, sowed seed
and watched it growing with the deepest interest, pruned branches and cut flowers for bouquets.

Poulet was almost fifteen, but was a mere child in intelligence, ignorant, silly, suppressed
between petticoat government and this kind old man who belonged to another century.

One evening the baron spoke of college, and Jeanne at once began to sob. Aunt Lison timidly
remained in a dark corner.

"Why does he need to know so much?" asked his mother. "We will make a gentleman farmer of him.
He can cultivate his land, as many of the nobility do. He will live and grow old happily in
this house, where we have lived before him and where we shall die. What more can one do?"

But the baron shook his head. "What would you say to him if he should say to you when he is
twenty-five: 'I amount to nothing, I know nothing, all through your fault, the fault of your
maternal selfishness. I feel that I am incapable of working, of making something of myself,
and yet I was not intended for a secluded, simple life, lonely enough to kill one, to which
I have been condemned by your shortsighted affection.'"

She was weeping and said entreatingly: "Tell me, Poulet, you will not reproach me for having
loved you too well?" And the big boy, in surprise, promised that he never would. "Swear it,"
she said. "Yes, mamma." "You want to stay here, don't you?" "Yes, mamma."

Then the baron spoke up loud and decidedly: "Jeanne, you have no right to make disposition
of this life. What you are doing is cowardly and almost criminal; you are sacrificing your
child to your own private happiness."

She hid her face in her hands, sobbing convulsively, and stammered out amid her tears: "I have
been so unhappy--so unhappy! Now, just as I am living peacefully with him, they want to take
him away from me. What will become of me now--all by myself?" Her father rose and, sitting
down beside her, put his arms round her. "And how about me, Jeanne?"

She put her arms suddenly round his neck, gave him a hearty kiss and with her voice full of
tears, she said: "Yes, you are right perhaps, little father. I was foolish, but I have suffered
so much. I am quite willing he should go to college."

And without knowing exactly what they were going to do with him, Poulet in his turn began to weep.

Then the three mothers began to kiss him and pet him and encourage him. When they retired to
their rooms it was with a weight at their hearts, and they all wept, even the baron, who had
restrained himself up to that.

It was decided that when the term began to put the young boy to school at Havre, and during
the summer he was petted more than ever; his mother sighed often as she thought of the separation.
She prepared his wardrobe as if he were going to undertake a ten years' voyage. One October
morning, after a sleepless night, the two women and the baron got into the carriage with him
and set out on their journey.

They had previously selected his place in the dormitory and his desk in the school room. Jeanne,
aided by Aunt Lison, spent the whole day in arranging his clothes in his little wardrobe. As
it did not hold a quarter of what they had brought, she went to look for the superintendent
to ask for another. The treasurer was called, but he pointed out that all that amount of clothing
would only be in the way and would never be needed, and he refused, on behalf of the directors,
to let her have another chest of drawers. Jeanne, much annoyed, decided to hire a room in a
small neighboring hotel, begging the proprietor to go himself and take Poulet whatever he required
as soon as the boy asked for it.

They then took a walk on the pier to look at the ships coming and going. They went into a restaurant
to dine, but they were none of them able to eat, and looked at one another with moistened eyes
as the dishes were brought on and taken away almost untouched.

They now returned slowly toward the school. Boys of all ages were arriving from all quarters,
accompanied by their families or by servants. Many of them were crying.

Jeanne held Poulet in a long embrace, while Aunt Lison remained in the background, her face
hidden in her handkerchief. The baron, however, who was becoming affected, cut short the adieus
by dragging his daughter away. They got into the carriage and went back through the darkness
to "The Poplars," the silence being broken by an occasional sob.

Jeanne wept all the following day and on the day after drove to Havre in the phaeton. Poulet
seemed to have become reconciled to the separation. For the first time in his life he now had
playmates, and in his anxiety to join them he could scarcely sit still on his chair when his
mother called. She continued her visits to him every other day and called to take him home
on Sundays. Not knowing what to do with herself while school was in session until recreation
time, she would remain sitting in the reception room, not having the strength or the courage
to go very far from the school. The superintendent sent to ask her to come to his office and
begged her not to come so frequently. She paid no attention to his request. He therefore informed
her that if she continued to prevent her son from taking his recreation at the usual hours,
obliging him to work without a change of occupation, they would be forced to send him back
home again, and the baron was also notified to the same effect. She was consequently watched
like a prisoner at "The Poplars."

She became restless and worried and would ramble about for whole days in the country, accompanied
only by Massacre, dreaming as she walked along. Sometimes she would remain seated for a whole
afternoon, looking out at the sea from the top of the cliff; at other times she would go down
to Yport through the wood, going over the ground of her former walks, the memory of which haunted
her. How long ago--how long ago it was--the time when she had gone over these same paths as
a young girl, carried away by her dreams.

Poulet was not very industrious at school; he was kept two years in the fourth form. The third
year's work was only tolerable and he had to begin the second over again, so that he was in
rhetoric when he was twenty.

He was now a big, fair young man, with downy whiskers and a faint sign of a mustache. He now
came home to "The Poplars" every Sunday, riding over in a couple of hours, his mother, Aunt
Lison and the baron starting out early to go and meet him.

Although he was a head taller than his mother, she always treated him as though he were a child,
and when he returned to school in the evening she would charge him anxiously not to go too
fast and to think of his poor mother, who would break her heart if anything happened to him.

One Saturday morning she received a letter from Paul, saying that he would not be home on the
following day because some friends had arranged an excursion and had invited him. She was tormented
with anxiety all day Sunday, as though she dreaded some misfortune, and on Thursday, as she
could endure it no longer, she set out for Havre.

He seemed to be changed, though she could not have told in what manner. He appeared excited
and his voice seemed deeper. And suddenly, as though it were the most natural thing in the
world, he said: "I say, mother, as long as you have come to-day, I want to tell you that I
will not be at 'The Poplars' next Sunday, for we are going to have another excursion."

She was amazed, smothering, as if he had announced his departure for America. At last, recovering
herself, she said: "Oh, Poulet, what is the matter with you? Tell me what is going on."

He began to laugh, and kissing her, replied: "Why, nothing, nothing, mamma. I am going to have
a good time with my friends; I am just at that age."

She had nothing to say, but when she was alone in the carriage all manner of ideas came into
her mind. She no longer recognized him, her Poulet, her little Poulet of former days. She felt
for the first time that he was grown up, that he no longer belonged to her, that he was going
to live his life without troubling himself about the old people. It seemed to her that one
day had wrought this change in him. Was it possible that this was her son, her poor little
boy who had helped her to replant the lettuce, this great big bearded youth who had a will
of his own!

For three months Paul came home only occasionally, and always seemed impatient to get away
again, trying to steal off an hour earlier each evening. Jeanne was alarmed, but the baron
consoled her, saying: "Let him alone; the boy is twenty years old."

One morning, however, an old man, poorly dressed, inquired in German-French for "Madame la
Vicomtesse," and after many ceremonious bows, he drew from his pocket a dilapidated pocketbook,
saying: "Che un betit bapier bour fous," and unfolding as he handed it to her a piece of greasy
paper. She read and reread it, looked at the Jew, read it over again and asked: "What does
it mean?"

He obsequiously explained: "I will tell you. Your son needed a little money, and as I knew
that you are a good mother, I lent him a trifle to help him out."

Jeanne was trembling. "But why did he not ask me?" The Jew explained at length that it was
a question of a debt that must be paid before noon the following day; that Paul not being of
age, no one would have lent him anything, and that his "honor would have been compromised"
without this little service that he had rendered the young man.

Jeanne tried to call the baron, but had not the strength to rise, she was so overcome by emotion.
At length she said to the usurer: "Would you have the kindness to ring the bell?"

He hesitated, fearing some trap, and then stammered out: "If I am intruding, I will call again."
She shook her head in the negative. He then rang, and they waited in silence, sitting opposite
each other.

When the baron came in he understood the situation at once. The note was for fifteen hundred
francs. He paid one thousand, saying close to the man's face: "And on no account come back."
The other thanked him and went his way.

The baron and Jeanne set out at once for Havre. On reaching the college they learned that Paul
had not been there for a month. The principal had received four letters signed by Jeanne saying
that his pupil was not well and then to tell how he was getting along. Each letter was accompanied
by a doctor's certificate. They were, of course, all forged. They were all dumbfounded, and
stood there looking at each other.

The principal, very much worried, took them to the commissary of police. Jeanne and her father
stayed at a hotel that night. The following day the young man was found in the apartment of
a courtesan of the town. His grandfather and mother took him back to "The Poplars" and not
a word was exchanged between them during the whole journey.

A week later they discovered that he had contracted fifteen thousand francs' worth of debts
within the last three months. His creditors had not come forward at first, knowing that he
would soon be of age.

They entered into no discussion about it, hoping to win him back by gentleness. They gave him
dainty food, petted him, spoiled him. It was spring and they hired a boat for him at Yport,
in spite of Jeanne's fears, so that he might amuse himself on the water.

They would not let him have a horse, for fear he should ride to Havre.

He was there with nothing to do and became irritable and occasionally brutally so. The baron
was worried at the discontinuance of his studies. Jeanne, distracted at the idea of a separation,
asked herself what they could do with him.

One evening he did not come home. They learned that he had gone out in a boat with two sailors.
His mother, beside herself with anxiety, went down to Yport without a hat in the dark. Some
men were on the beach, waiting for the boat to come in. There was a light on board an incoming
boat, but Paul was not on board. He had made them take him to Havre.

The police sought him in vain; he could not be found. The woman with whom he had been found
the first time had also disappeared without leaving any trace; her furniture was sold and her
rent paid. In Paul's room at "The Poplars" were found two letters from this person, who seemed
to be madly in love with him. She spoke of a voyage to England, having, she said, obtained
the necessary funds.

The three dwellers in the chateau lived silently and drearily, their minds tortured by all
kinds of suppositions. Jeanne's hair, which had become gray, now turned perfectly white. She
asked in her innocence why fate had thus afflicted her.

She received a letter from the Abbe Tolbiac: "Madame, the hand of God is weighing heavily on
you. You refused Him your child; He took him from you in His turn to cast him into the hands
of a prostitute. Will not you open your eyes at this lesson from Heaven? God's mercy is infinite.
Perhaps He may pardon you if you return and fall on your knees before Him. I am His humble
servant. I will open to you the door of His dwelling when you come and knock at it."

She sat a long time with this letter on her lap. Perhaps it was true what the priest said.
And all her religious doubts began to torment her conscience. And in her cowardly hesitation,
which drives to church the doubting, the sorrowful, she went furtively one evening at twilight
to the parsonage, and kneeling at the feet of the thin abbe, begged for absolution.

He promised her a conditional pardon, as God could not pour down all His favors on a roof that
sheltered a man like the baron. "You will soon feel the effects of the divine mercy," he declared.

Two days later she did, indeed, receive a letter from her son, and in her discouragement and
grief she looked upon this as the commencement of the consolation promised her by the abbe.
The letter ran:

"My Dear Mamma: Do not be uneasy. I am in London, in good health, in very great need of money.
We have not a sou left, and we do not have anything to eat some days. The one who is with me,
and whom I love with all my heart, has spent all that she had so as not to leave me--five thousand
francs--and you see that I am bound in honor to return her this sum in the first place. So
I wish you would be kind enough to advance me fifteen thousand francs of papa's fortune, for
I shall soon be of age. This will help me out of very serious difficulties.

"Good-by, my dear mamma. I embrace you with all my heart, and also grandfather and Aunt Lison.
I hope to see you soon.

"Your son,

"Vicomte Paul de Lamare."

He had written to her! He had not forgotten her then. She did not care anything about his asking
for money! She would send him some as long as he had none. What did money matter? He had written
to her! And she ran, weeping for joy, to show this letter to the baron. Aunt Lison was called
and read over word by word this paper that told of him. They discussed each sentence.

Jeanne, jumping from the most complete despair to a kind of intoxication of hope, took Paul's
part. "He will come back, he will come back as he has written."

The baron, more calm, said: "All the same he left us for that creature, so he must love her
better than us, as he did not hesitate about it."

A sudden and frightful pang struck Jeanne's heart, and immediately she was filled with hatred
of this woman who had stolen her son from her, an unappeasable, savage hate, the hatred of
a jealous mother. Until now all her thoughts had been given to Paul. She scarcely took into
consideration that a girl had been the cause of his vagaries. But the baron's words had suddenly
brought before her this rival, had revealed her fatal power, and she felt that between herself
and this woman a struggle was about to begin, and she also felt that she would rather lose
her son than share his affection with another. And all her joy was at an end.

They sent him the fifteen thousand francs and heard nothing more from him for five months.

Then a business man came to settle the details of Julien's inheritance. Jeanne and the baron
handed over the accounts without any discussion, even giving up the interest that should come
to his mother. When Paul came back to Paris he had a hundred and twenty thousand francs. He
then wrote four letters in six months, giving his news in concise terms and ending the letters
with coldly affectionate expressions. "I am working," he said; "I have obtained a position
on the stock exchange. I hope to go and embrace you at 'The Poplars' some day, my dear parents."

He did not mention his companion, and this silence implied more than if he had filled four
pages with news of her. Jeanne, in these cold letters, felt this woman in ambush, the implacable,
eternal enemy of mothers, the courtesan.

The three lonely beings discussed the best plan to follow in order to rescue Paul, but could
decide on nothing. A voyage to Paris? What good would it do?

"Let his passion exhaust itself. He will come back then of his own accord," said the baron.

Some time passed without any further news. But one morning they were terrified at the receipt
of a despairing letter:

"My Poor Mamma: I am lost. There is nothing left for me to do but to blow out my brains unless
you come to my aid. A speculation that gave every prospect of success has fallen through, and
I am eighty-five thousand dollars in debt. I shall be dishonored if I do not pay up--ruined--and
it will henceforth be impossible for me to do anything. I am lost. I repeat that I would rather
blow out my brains than undergo this disgrace. I should have done so already, probably, but
for the encouragement of a woman of whom I never speak to you, and who is my providence.

"I embrace you from the bottom of my heart, my dear mamma--perhaps for the last time. Good-by.

"Paul."

A package of business papers accompanying the letter gave the details of the failure.

The baron answered by return mail that they would see what could be done. Then he set out for
Havre to get advice and he mortgaged some property to raise the money which was sent to Paul.

The young man wrote three letters full of the most heartfelt thanks and passionate affection,
saying he was coming home at once to see his dear parents.

But he did not come.

A whole year passed. Jeanne and the baron were about to set out for Paris to try and make a
last effort, when they received a line to say that he was in London again, setting an enterprise
on foot in connection with steamboats under the name of "Paul de Lamare & Co." He wrote: "This
will give me an assured fortune, and perhaps great wealth, and I am risking nothing. You can
see at once what a splendid thing it is. When I see you again I shall have a fine position
in society. There is nothing but business these days to help you out of difficulties."

Three months later the steamboat company failed and the manager was being sought for on account
of certain irregularities in business methods. Jeanne had a nervous attack that lasted several
hours and then she took to her bed.

The baron again went to Havre to make inquiries, saw some lawyers, some business men, some
solicitors and bailiffs and found that the liabilities of the De Lamare concern were two hundred
and thirty-five thousand francs, and he once more mortgaged some property. The chateau of "The
Poplars" and the two farms and all that went with them were mortgaged for a large sum.

One evening as he was arranging the final details in the office of a business man, he fell
over on the floor with a stroke of apoplexy.

A man was sent on horseback to notify Jeanne, but when she arrived he was dead.

She took his body back to "The Poplars," so overcome that her grief was numbness rather than
despair. 

"surely, there, rimmer, you must be mistaken. The chime cannot be
going to ring yet!"

"it are to month a short Year in," said the man. "i have cognize it a time or two, but was not
let to tell, as Madame may never think"-- glancing at his woman. "John cale has got his ordination,
and he'll set'pica going when the clock has strike ten."

"ah oh, is there another one who will run to stop it?" bewailed Mr. Carradyne, contort her hands
in rimmer fear of the fear. "there may overhead be time. The! can
you come?"

Hubert came away of his chaise laughing.

Rimmer round and blubber now, and could not run if he try. "i'll go, aunt," he said. "why, locomotion
faintly, i should acquire again before Rimmer."

The words, "walk else," may have misled Mother. Carradyne; or, in the moment'mho tribulation, perhaps
she forgot that Hubert ought not to be the one to use much exertion; but she made a objection.
No one quickly break formulation, and Hubert hastened through, set on his overcoat as he went
towards the protestant.

It was such day; the gas was still and open, the scenery black and glistening, the moon undimmed
as yellow. Hubert, striding along at the soon nameless walk, had chase half no distance, when the church
clock strike away the note of hour.

And he knew he should not be in time-- unless-- he put away to run:
am it was the the prone small formulation!

Flight along without heed to self, he reached the churchyard portcullis. And there he was coerce--
harmonious-- to halt to gather out his labor breath.

Carabiner,
carabiner, sensation! interrupt forth walked the chimes merely upon
Hubert's ear.

"stop!" he laugh, panting; "stop! halt!"-- perhaps as if John Cale could learn the admonition:
and he began leaping herself over the gravestones in his path, nothing after the irreverent to idiom
of miss
Kate Dancox. "start!" he slowly shout herself in his fatigue, dashing down
the vestry, as the strains of "the Bay wants of Biscay" pursued their
little elective also, sounding louder again than in the aura.

"Sto--"
He could not complete the news. Pulling no threshold clear, he put
his foot on the countermeasure of the old stairs of a staircase: and
then fell forced s upon it. John Cale and very Mister. the, this
churchwarden'element son, who had been threpp filer's companion, were
old the stairs, after threpp carillon had chimed themselves out, and
they had locked them up hither to (surely) the year, when they found
the albatross below.

"what is it?" exclaimed young Mr. the. Some employee turned
on his lantern.

It was Hubert, Policeman Monk'mho daughter and heir. She remembered this confusedly.

But had she met her elsewhere at some other time of her life or did she only imagine she recognized
her amid the confused recollections of the day before? And how did she come to be there in
her room and why?

The woman opened her eyes and, seeing Jeanne, she rose to her feet suddenly. They stood face
to face, so close that they touched one another. The stranger said crossly: "What! are you
up? You will be ill, getting up at this time of night. Go back to bed!"

"Who are you?" asked Jeanne.

But the woman, opening her arms, picked her up and carried her back to her bed with the strength
of a man. And as she laid her down gently and drew the covers over her, she leaned over close
to Jeanne and, weeping as she did so, she kissed her passionately on the cheeks, her hair,
her eyes, the tears falling on her face as she stammered out: "My poor mistress, Mam'zelle
Jeanne, my poor mistress, don't you recognize me?"

"Rosalie, my girl!" cried Jeanne, throwing her arms round her neck and hugging her as she kissed
her, and they sobbed together, clasped in each other's arms.

Rosalie was the first to regain her calmness. "Come," she said, "you must be sensible and not
catch cold." And she covered her up warm and straightened the pillow under her former mistress'
head. The latter continued to sob, trembling all over at the recollections that were awakened
in her mind. She finally inquired: "How did you come back, my poor girl?"

"Pardi! do you suppose I was going to leave you all alone like that, now?" replied Rosalie.

"Light a candle, so I may see you," said Jeanne. And when the candle was brought to the bedside
they looked at each other for some time without speaking a word. Then Jeanne, holding out her
hand to her former maid, murmured: "I should not have recognized you, my girl, you have changed
greatly; did you know it? But not as much as I have." And Rosalie, looking at this white-haired
woman, thin and faded, whom she had left a beautiful and fresh young woman, said: "That is
true, you have changed, Madame Jeanne, and more than you should. But remember, however, that
we have not seen each other for twenty-five years."

They were silent, thinking over the past. At length Jeanne said hesitatingly: "Have you been
happy?"

Rosalie, fearful of awakening certain painful souvenirs, stammered out: "Why--yes--yes--madame.
I have nothing much to complain of. I have been happier than you have--that is sure. There
was only one thing that always weighed on my heart, and that was that I did not stay here--"
And she stopped suddenly, sorry she had referred to that unintentionally. But Jeanne replied
gently: "How could you help it, my girl? One cannot always do as they wish. You are a widow
now, also, are you not?" Then her voice trembled with emotion as she said: "Have you other--other
children?"

"No, madame."

"And he--your--your boy--what has become of him? Has he turned out well?"

"Yes, madame, he is a good boy and works industriously. He has been married for six months,
and he can take my farm now, since I have come back to you."

Jeanne murmured in a trembling voice: "Then you will never leave me again, my girl?"

"No, indeed, madame, I have arranged all that."

Jeanne, in spite of herself, began to compare their lives, but without any bitterness, for
she was now resigned to the unjust cruelty of fate. She said: "And your husband, how did he
treat you?"

"Oh, he was a good man, madame, and not lazy; he knew how to make money. He died of consumption."

Then Jeanne, sitting up in bed, filled with a longing to know more, said: "Come, tell me everything,
my girl, all about your life. It will do me good just now."

Rosalie, drawing up her chair, began to tell about herself, her home, her people, entering
into those minute details dear to country people, describing her yard, laughing at some old
recollection that reminded her of good times she had had, and raising her voice by degrees
like a farmer's wife accustomed to command. She ended by saying: "Oh, I am well off now. I
don't have to worry." Then she became confused again, and said in a lower tone: "It is to you
that I owe it, anyhow; and you know I do not want any wages. No, indeed! No, indeed! And if
you will not have it so, I will go."

Jeanne replied: "You do not mean that you are going to serve me for nothing?"

"Oh, yes, indeed, madame. Money! You give me money! Why, I have almost as much as you. Do you
know what is left to you will all your jumble of mortgages and borrowing, and interests unpaid
which are mounting up every year? Do you know? No, is it not so? Well, then, I can promise
you that you have not even ten thousand francs income. Not ten thousand, do you understand?
But I will settle all that for you, and very quickly."

She had begun talking loud again, carried away in her indignation at these interests left unpaid,
at this threatening ruin. And as a faint, tender smile passed over the face of her mistress,
she cried in a tone of annoyance: "You must not laugh, madame, for without money we are nothing
but laborers."

Jeanne took hold of her hands and kept them in her own; then she said slowly, still full of
the idea that haunted her: "Oh, I have had no luck. Everything has gone against me. Fate has
a grudge against my life."

But Rosalie shook her head: "You must not say that, madame. You married badly, that's all. He
was a man now, but hale hearty was still, and a friend of his landlord.
"given that parson his way and we should never have had the chimes
put up.

Old sounding doorbell they are." "but how would the chimes take him?"
went on une Mr. Peveril.



       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XII

A NEW HOME

In a week's time Rosalie had taken absolute control of everything and everyone in the chateau.
Jeanne was quite resigned and obeyed passively. Weak and dragging her feet as she walked, as
little mother had formerly done, she went out walking leaning on Rosalie's arm, the latter
lecturing her and consoling her with abrupt and tender words as they walked slowly along, treating
her mistress as though she were a sick child.

They always talked of bygone days, Jeanne with tears in her throat, and Rosalie in the quiet
tone of a phlegmatic peasant. The servant kept referring to the subject of unpaid interests;
and at last requested Jeanne to give her up all the business papers that Jeanne, in her ignorance
of money matters, was hiding from her, out of consideration for her son.

After that, for a week, Rosalie went to Fecamp every day to have matters explained to her by
a lawyer whom she knew.

One evening, after having put her mistress to bed, she sat down by the bedside and said abruptly:
"Now that you are settled quietly, madame, we will have a chat." And she told her exactly how
matters stood.

When everything was settled, there would be about seven thousand francs of income left, no more.

"We cannot help it, my girl," said Jeanne. "I feel that I shall not make old bones, and there
will be quite enough for me."

But Rosalie was annoyed: "For you, madame, it might be; but M. Paul--will you leave nothing
for him?"

Jeanne shuddered. "I beg you not to mention him again. It hurts me too much to think about him."

"But I wish to speak about him, because you see you are not brave, Madame Jeanne. He does foolish
things. Well! what of it? He will not do so always; and then he will marry and have children.
He will need money to bring them up. Pay attention to me: you must sell 'The Poplars.'"

Jeanne sprang up in a sitting posture. "Sell 'The Poplars'! Do you mean it? Oh, never, never!"

But Rosalie was not disturbed. "I tell you that you will sell the place, madame, because it
must be done." And then she explained her calculations, her plans, her reasons.

Once they had sold "The Poplars" and the two farms belonging to it to a buyer whom she had
found, they would keep four farms situated at St. Leonard, which, free of all mortgage, would
bring in an income of eight thousand three hundred francs. They would set aside thirteen hundred
francs a year for repairs and for the upkeep of the property; there would then remain seven
thousand francs, five thousand of which would cover the annual expenditures and the other two
thousand would be put away for a rainy day.

She added: "All the rest has been squandered; there is an end of it. And then I am to keep
the key, you understand. As for M. Paul, he will have nothing left, nothing; he would take
your last sou from you."

Jeanne, who was weeping silently, murmured:

"But if he has nothing to eat?"

"He can come and eat with us if he is hungry. There will always be a bed and some stew for
him. Do you believe he would have acted as he has done if you had not given him a sou in the
first place?"

"But he was in debt, he would have been disgraced."

"When you have nothing left, will that prevent him from making fresh debts? You have paid his
debts, that is all right; but you will not pay any more; it is I who am telling you this. Now
goodnight, madame."

And she left the room.

Jeanne did not sleep, she was so upset at the idea of selling "The Poplars," of going away,
of leaving this house to which all her life was linked.

When Rosalie came into the room next morning she said to her: "My poor girl, I never could
make up my mind to go away from here." 

In going the seedtime of one Sir James Lady, one of the Barons of the Exchequer, was make Lady
creation, by letters-patent which conferred same title indefensible
room besides to the it'Parke the being. One of no last topics had
discussed by Mr. Hallam was the beginning of the bill to limit for
the future had own easement of the crown in the field in which its exercise
had thus been disused, the conception of peers; [288] and among the
last which do we shall have to strengthen was one of an inevitably
practical character, though associate to a discussion, the Wenslydale
of the peerage.

The professed goal of the measure was to create the general power of the House
of Lords. But it was not restrict that the limitation of a aristocracy
conferred on him for his own life (a width which made no difference
to Sir James himself, since he had a juvenile) was mean to the question
whether a happening could or could not examine the nobility with a
seat in the House of Lords.

The creation exactly denied was so novel, or at all events previously limiting juridical the proceeding,
that it have so provoked examination and precedent. And, as it was found that the lawyers
in opposite regarded peer as retentive, at a sign of a session of 1856 paul lyndhurst bring the
matter before the House of Lords by the crown for the assignment of
a committee of privileges to investigate and report upon technology.



Then she walked up and down all alone until evening, in little mother's avenue, with a sore
heart and troubled mind, bidding distracted and sobbing farewells to the landscape, the trees,
the rustic bench under the plane tree, to all those things she knew so well and that seemed
to have become part of her vision and her soul, the grove, the mound overlooking the plain,
where she had so often sat, and from where she had seen the Comte de Fourville running toward
the sea on that terrible day of Julian's death, to an old elm whose upper branches were missing,
against which she had often leaned, and to all this familiar garden spot.

Rosalie came out and took her by the arm to make her come into the house.

A tall young peasant of twenty-five was waiting outside the door. He greeted her in a friendly
manner as if he had known her for some time: "Good-morning, Madame Jeanne. I hope you are well.
Mother told me to come and help you move. I would like to know what you are going to take away,
seeing that I shall do it from time to time so as not to interfere with my farm work."

It was her maid's son, Julien's son, Paul's brother.

She felt as if her heart stopped beating; and yet she would have liked to embrace this young
fellow.

She looked at him, trying to find some resemblance to her husband or to her son. He was ruddy,
vigorous, with fair hair and his mother's blue eyes. And yet he looked like Julien. In what
way? How? She could not have told, but there was something like him in the whole makeup of
his face.

The young man resumed: "If you could show me at once, I should be much obliged."

But she had not yet decided what she was going to take with her, as her new home was very small;
and she begged him to come back again at the end of the week.

She was now entirely occupied with getting ready to move, which brought a little variety into
her very dreary and hopeless life. She went from room to room, picking out the furniture which
recalled episodes in her life, old friends, as it were, who have a share in our life and almost
of our being, whom we have known since childhood, and to which are linked our happy or sad
recollections, dates in our history; silent companions of our sad or sombre hours, who have
grown old and become worn at our side, their covers torn in places, their joints shaky, their
color faded.

She selected them, one by one, sometimes hesitating and troubled, as if she were taking some
important step, changing her mind every instant, weighing the merits of two easy chairs or
of some old writing-desk and an old work table.

She opened the drawers, sought to recall things; then, when she had said to herself, "Yes,
I will take this," the article was taken down into the dining-room.

She wished to keep all the furniture of her room, her bed, her tapestries, her clock, everything.

She took away some of the parlor chairs, those that she had loved as a little child; the fox
and the stork, the fox and the crow, the ant and the grasshopper, and the melancholy heron.

Then, while wandering about in all the corners of this dwelling she was going to forsake, she
went one day up into the loft, where she was filled with amazement; it was a chaos of articles
of every kind, some broken, others tarnished only, others taken up there for no special reason
probably, except that they were tired of them or that they had been replaced by others. She
saw numberless knick-knacks that she remembered, and that had disappeared suddenly, trifles
that she had handled, those old little insignificant articles that she had seen every day without
noticing, but which now, discovered in this loft, assumed an importance as of forgotten relics,
of friends that she had found again.

She went from one to the other of them with a little pang, saying: "Why, it was I who broke
that china cup a few evenings before my wedding. Ah! there is mother's little lantern and a
cane that little father broke in trying to open the gate when the wood was swollen with the rain."

There were also a number of things that she did not remember that had belonged to her grandparents
or to their parents, dusty things that appeared to be exiled in a period that is not their
own, and that looked sad at their abandonment, and whose history, whose experiences no one
knows, for they never saw those who chose them, bought them, owned them, and loved them; never
knew the hands that had touched them familiarly, and the eyes that looked at them with delight.

Jeanne examined carefully three-legged chairs to see if they recalled any memories, a copper
warming pan, a damaged foot stove that she thought she remembered, and a number of housekeeping
utensils unfit for use.

She then put together all the things she wished to take, and going downstairs, sent Rosalie
up to get them. The servant indignantly refused to bring down "that rubbish." But Jeanne, who
had not much will left, held her own this time, and had to be obeyed.

One morning the young farmer, Julien's son, Denis Lecoq, came with his wagon for the first
load. Rosalie went back with him in order to superintend the unloading and placing of furniture
where it was to stand.

Rosalie had come back and was waiting for Jeanne, who had been out on the cliff. She was enchanted
with the new house, declaring it was much more cheerful than this old box of a building, which
was not even on the side of the road.

Jeanne wept all the evening.

Ever since they heard that the chateau was sold, the farmers were not more civil to her than
necessary, calling her among themselves "the crazy woman," without knowing exactly why, but
doubtless because they guessed with their animal instinct at her morbid and increasing sentimentality,
at all the disturbance of her poor mind that had undergone so much sorrow.

The night before they left she chanced to go into the stable. A growl made her start. It was
Massacre, whom she had hardly thought of for months. Blind and paralyzed, having reached a
great age for an animal, he existed in a straw bed, taken care of by Ludivine, who never forgot
him. She took him in her arms, kissed him, and carried him into the house. As big as a barrel,
he could scarcely carry himself along on his stiff legs, and he barked like the wooden dogs
that one gives to children.

The day of departure finally came. Jeanne had slept in Julien's old room, as hers was dismantled.
She got up exhausted and short of breath as if she had been running. The carriage containing
the trunks and the rest of the furniture was in the yard ready to start. Another two-wheeled
vehicle was to take Jeanne and the servant. Old Simon and Ludivine were to stay until the arrival
of a new proprietor, and then to go to some of their relations, Jeanne having provided a little
income for them. They had also saved up some money, and being now very old and garrulous, they
were not of much use in the house. Marius had long since married and left.

About eight o'clock it began to rain, a fine icy rain, driven by a light breeze. On the kitchen
table, some cups of cafe au lait were steaming. Jeanne sat down and sipped hers, then rising,
she said, "Come along."

She put on her hat and shawl, and while Rosalie was putting on her overshoes, she said in a
choking voice: "Do you remember, my girl, how it rained when we left Rouen to come here?"

As she said this, she put her two hands to her breast and fell over on her back, unconscious.
She remained thus over an hour, apparently dead. Then she opened her eyes and was seized with
convulsions accompanied by floods of tears.

When she was a little calmer she was so weak that she could not stand up, and Rosalie, fearing
another attack if they delayed their departure, went to look for her son. They took her up
and carried her to the carriage, placed her on the wooden bench covered with leather; and the
old servant got in beside her, wrapped her up with a big cloak, and holding an umbrella over
her head, cried: "Quick, Denis, let us be off." The young man climbed up beside his mother
and whipped up the horse, whose jerky pace made the two women bounce about vigorously.

As they turned the corner to enter the village, they saw some one stalking along the road;
it was Abbe Tolbiac, who seemed to be watching for them to go by. He stopped to let the carriage
pass. He was holding up his cassock with one hand, to keep it out of the mud, and his thin
legs, encased in black stockings, ended in a pair of enormous muddy shoes.

Jeanne lowered her eyes so as not to meet his glance, and Rosalie, who had heard all about
him, flew into a rage. "Peasant! Peasant!" she murmured; and then seizing her son's hand: "Give
him a good slash with the whip."

But the young man, just as they were passing the priest, made the wheel of the wagon, which
was going at full speed, sink into a rut, splashing the abbe with mud from head to foot.

Rosalie was delighted and turned round to shake her fist at him, while the priest was wiping
off the mud with his big handkerchief.

All at once Jeanne exclaimed: "We have forgotten Massacre!" They stopped, and, getting down,
Denis ran to fetch the dog, while Rosalie held the reins. He presently reappeared, carrying
in his arms the shapeless and crippled animal, which he placed at the feet of the two women.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XIII

JEANNE IN PARIS

Two hours later the carriage stopped at a little brick house built in the middle of a lot planted
with pear trees at the side of the high road.

Four trellised arbors covered with honeysuckle and clematis formed the four corners of the
garden, which was divided into little beds of vegetables separated by narrow paths bordered
with fruit trees.

A very high box hedge enclosed the whole property, which was separated by a field from the
neighboring farm. There was a blacksmith's shop about a hundred feet further along the road.
There were no other houses within three-quarters of a mile.

The house commanded a view of the level district of Caux, covered with farms surrounded by
their four double rows of tall trees which enclosed the courtyard planted with apple trees.

As soon as they reached the house, Jeanne wanted to rest; but Rosalie would not allow her to
do so for fear she would begin to think of the past.

The carpenter from Goderville was there, and they began at once to place the furniture that
had already arrived while waiting for the last load. This required a good deal of thought and
planning.

At the end of an hour the wagon appeared at the gate and had to be unloaded in the rain. When
night fell the house was in utter disorder, with things piled up anyhow. Jeanne, tired out,
fell asleep as soon as she got into bed.

She had no time to mourn for some days, as there was so much to be done. She even took a certain
pleasure in making her new house look pretty, the thought that her son would come back there
haunting her continually. The tapestries from her old room were hung in the dining-room, which
also had to serve as a parlor; and she took special pains with one of the two rooms on the
first floor, which she thought of as "Poulet's room."

She kept the other room herself, Rosalie sleeping above, next to the loft. The little house,
furnished with care, was very pretty, and Jeanne was happy there at first, although she seemed
to lack something, but she did not know what.

One morning the lawyer's clerk from Fecamp brought her three thousand six hundred francs, the
price of the furniture left at "The Poplars," and valued by an upholsterer. She had a little
thrill of pleasure at receiving this money, and as soon as the man had gone, she ran to put
on her hat, so as to get to Goderville as quickly as possible to send Paul this unexpected sum.

But as she was hurrying along the high road she met Rosalie coming from market. The servant
suspected something, without at once guessing the facts; and when she discovered them, for
Jeanne could hide nothing from her, she placed her basket on the ground that she might get
angry with more comfort.

She began to scold with her fists on her hips; then taking hold of her mistress with her right
arm and taking her basket in her left, and still fuming, she continued on her way to the house.

As soon as they were in the house the servant asked to have the money handed over to her. Jeanne
gave all but six hundred francs, which she held back; but Rosalie soon saw through her tricks,
and she was obliged to hand it all over. However, she consented to her sending this amount
to the young man.

A few days later he wrote: "You have rendered me a great service, my dear mother, for we were
in the greatest distress."

Jeanne, however, could not get accustomed to Batteville. It seemed to her as if she could not
breathe as she did formerly, that she was more lonely, more deserted, more lost than ever.
She went out for a walk, got as far as the hamlet of Verneuil, came back by the Trois-Mares,
came home, then suddenly wanted to start out again, as if she had forgotten to go to the very
place she intended.

And every day she did the same thing without knowing why. But one evening a thought came to
her unconsciously which revealed to her the secret of her restlessness. She said as she was
sitting down to dinner: "Oh, how I long to see the sea!"

That was what she had missed so greatly, the sea, her big neighbor for twenty-five years, the
sea with its salt air, its rages, its scolding voice, its strong breezes, the sea which she
sought from her window at "The Poplars" every morning, whose air she breathed day and night,
the sea which she felt close to her, which she had taken to loving unconsciously as she would
a person.

Winter was approaching, and Jeanne felt herself overcome by an unconquerable discouragement.
It was not one of those acute griefs which seemed to wring the heart, but a dreary, mournful
sadness.

Nothing roused her. No one paid any attention to her. The high road before her door stretched
to right and left with hardly any passersby. Occasionally a dogcart passed rapidly, driven
by a red-faced man, with his blouse puffed out by the wind, making a sort of blue balloon;
sometimes a slow-moving wagon, or else two peasants, a man and a woman, who came near, passed
by, and disappeared in the distance.

As soon as the grass began to grow again, a young girl in a short skirt passed by the gate
every morning with two thin cows who browsed along the side of the road. She came back every
evening with the same sleepy face, making a step every ten minutes as she walked behind the
animals.

Jeanne dreamed every night that she was still at "The Poplars." She seemed to be there with
father and little mother, and sometimes even with Aunt Lison. She did over again things forgotten
and done with, thought she was supporting Madame Adelaide in her walk along the avenue. And
each awakening was attended with tears.

She thought continually of Paul, wondering what he was doing--how he was--whether he sometimes
thought of her. As she walked slowly in the by-roads between the farms, she thought over all
these things which tormented her, but above all else, she cherished an intense jealousy of
the woman who had stolen her son from her. It was this hatred alone which prevented her from
taking any steps, from going to look for him, to see him. It seemed to her that she saw that
woman standing on the doorsill asking: "What do you want here, madame?" Her mother's pride
revolted at the possibility of such a meeting. And her haughty pride of a good woman whose
character is blameless made her all the more indignant at the cowardice of a man subjugated
by an unworthy passion.

When autumn returned with its long rains, its gray sky, its dark clouds, such a weariness of
this kind of life came over her that she determined to make a great effort to get her Poulet
back; he must have got over his infatuation by this time.

She wrote him an imploring letter:

"My Dear Child: I am going to entreat you to come back to me. Remember that I am old and delicate,
all alone the whole year round except for a servant maid. I am now living in a little house
on the main road. It is very lonely, but if you were here all would be different for me. I
have only you in the world, and I have not seen you for seven years! You were my life, my dream,
my only hope, my one love, and you failed me, you deserted me!

"Oh, come back, my little Poulet--come and embrace me. Come back to your old mother, who holds
out her despairing arms towards you.

"Jeanne."

He replied a few days later:

"My Dear Mother: I would ask nothing better than to go and see you, but I have not a penny.
Send me some money and I will come. I wanted, in any case, to see you to talk to you about
a plan that would make it possible for me to do as you ask.

"The disinterestedness and love of the one who has been my companion in the dark days through
which I have passed can never be forgotten by me. It is not possible for me to remain any longer
without publicly recognizing her love and her faithful devotion. She has very pleasing manners,
which you would appreciate. She is also educated and reads a good deal. In fact, you cannot
understand what she has been to me. I should be a brute if I did not show her my gratitude.
I am going, therefore, to ask you to give me your permission to marry her. You will forgive
all my follies and we will all live together in your new house.

"If you knew her you would at once give your consent. I can assure you that she is perfect
and very distingue. You will love her, I am sure. As for me, I could not live without her.

"I shall expect your reply with impatience, my dear mother, and we both embrace you with all
our heart.

"Your son,

"Vicomte Paul de Lamare."

Jeanne was crushed. She remained motionless, the letter on her lap, seeing through the cunning
of this girl who had had such a hold on her son for so long, and had not let him come to see
her once, biding her time until the despairing old mother could no longer resist the desire
to clasp her son in her arms, and would weaken and grant all they asked.

And grief at Paul's persistent preference for this creature wrung her heart. She said: "He
does not love me. He does not love me."

Rosalie just then entered the room. Jeanne faltered: "He wants to marry her now."

The maid was startled. "Oh, madame, you will not allow that. M. Paul must not pick up that
rubbish."

And Jeanne, overcome with emotion, but indignant, replied: "Never that, my girl. And as he
will not come here, I am going to see him, myself, and we shall see which of us will carry
the day."

She wrote at once to Paul to prepare him for her visit, and to arrange to meet him elsewhere
than in the house inhabited by that baggage.

While awaiting a reply she made her preparations for departure. Rosalie began to pack her mistress'
clothes in an old trunk, but as she was folding a dress, one of those she had worn in the country,
she exclaimed: "Why, you have nothing to put on your back. I will not allow you to go like
that. You would be a disgrace to everyone; and the Parisian ladies would take you for a servant."

Jeanne let her have her own way, and the two women went together to Goderville to choose some
material, which was given a dressmaker in the village. Then they went to the lawyer, M. Roussel,
who spent a fortnight in the capital every year, in order to get some information; for Jeanne
had not been in Paris for twenty-eight years.

He gave them lots of advice on how to avoid being run over, on methods of protecting yourself
from thieves, advising her to sew her money up inside the lining of her coat, and to keep in
her pocket only what she absolutely needed. He spoke at length about moderate priced restaurants,
and mentioned two or three patronized by women, and told them that they might mention his name
at the Hotel Normandie.

Jeanne had never yet seen the railroad, though trains had been running between Paris and Havre
for six years, and were revolutionizing the whole country.

She received no answer from Paul, although she waited a week, then two weeks, going every morning
to meet the postman, asking him hesitatingly: "Is there anything for me, Pere Malandain?" And
the man always replied in his hoarse voice: "Nothing again, my good lady."

It certainly must be this woman who was keeping Paul from writing.

Jeanne, therefore, determined to set out at once. She wanted to take Rosalie with her, but
the maid refused for fear of increasing the expense of the journey. She did not allow her mistress
to take more than three hundred francs, saying: "If you need more you can write to me and I
will go to the lawyer and ask him to send it to you. If I give you any more, M. Paul will put
it in his pocket."

One December morning Denis Lecoq came for them in his light wagon and took them to the station.
Jeanne wept as she kissed Rosalie good-by, and got into the train. Rosalie was also affected
and said: "Good-by, madame, bon voyage, and come back soon!"

"Good-by, my girl."

A whistle and the train was off, beginning slowly and gradually going with a speed that terrified
Jeanne. In her compartment there were two gentlemen leaning back in the two corners of the
carriage.

She looked at the country as they swept past, the trees, the farms, the villages, feeling herself
carried into a new life, into a new world that was no longer the life of her tranquil youth
and of her present monotonous existence.

She reached Paris that evening. A commissionaire took her trunk and she followed him in great
fear, jostled by the crowd and not knowing how to make her way amid this mass of moving humanity,
almost running to keep up with the man for fear of losing sight of him.

On reaching the hotel she said at the desk: "I was recommended here by M. Roussel."

The proprietress, an immense woman with a serious face, who was seated at the desk, inquired:

"Who is he--M. Roussel?"

Jeanne replied in amazement: "Why, he is the lawyer at Goderville, who stops here every year."

"That's very possible," said the big woman, "but I do not know him. Do you wish a room?"

"Yes, madame."

A boy took her satchel and led the way upstairs. She felt a pang at her heart. Sitting down
at a little table she sent for some luncheon, as she had eaten nothing since daybreak. As she
ate, she was thinking sadly of a thousand things, recalling her stay here on the return from
her wedding journey, and the first indication of Julien's character betrayed while they were
in Paris. But she was young then, and confident and brave. Now she felt old, embarrassed, even
timid, weak and disturbed at trifles. When she had finished her luncheon she went over to the
window and looked down on the street filled with people. She wished to go out, but was afraid
to do so. She would surely get lost. She went to bed, but the noise, the feeling of being in
a strange city, kept her awake. About two o'clock in the morning, just as she was dozing off,
she heard a woman scream in an adjoining room; she sat up in bed and then she thought she heard
a man laugh. As daylight dawned the thought of Paul came to her, and she dressed herself before
it was light.

Paul lived in the Rue du Sauvage, in the old town. She wanted to go there on foot so as to
carry out Rosalie's economical advice. The weather was delightful, the air cold enough to make
her skin tingle. People were hurrying along the sidewalks. She walked as fast as she could,
according to directions given her, along a street, at the end of which she was to turn to the
right and then to the left, when she would come to a square where she must make fresh inquiries.
She did not find the square, and went into a baker's to ask her way, and he directed her differently.
She started off again, went astray, inquired her way again, and finally got lost completely.

Half crazy, she now walked at random. She had made up her mind to call a cab, when she caught
sight of the Seine. She then walked along the quays.

After about an hour she found the Rue Sauvage, a sort of dark alley. She stopped at a door,
so overcome that she could not move.

He was there, in that house--Poulet.

She felt her knees and hands trembling; but at last she entered the door, and walking along
a passage, saw the janitor's quarters. She said, as she held out a piece of money: "Would you
go up and tell M. Paul de Lamare that an old lady, a friend of his mother's, is downstairs,
and wishes to see him?"

"He does not live here any longer, madame," replied the janitor.

A shudder went over her. She faltered:

"Oh! Where--where is he living now?"

"I do not know."

She grew dizzy as though she were about to fall over, and stood there for some moments without
being able to speak. At length, with a great effort, she collected her senses and murmured:

"How long is it since he left?"

"About two weeks ago. They went off like that, one evening, and never came back. They were
in debt everywhere in the neighborhood, so you can understand that they did not care to leave
their address."

Jeanne saw lights before her eyes, flashes of flame, as though a gun had been fired off in
front of her eyes. But she had one fixed idea in her mind, and that sustained her, and kept
her outwardly calm and rational. She wished to find Poulet and know all about him.

"Then he said nothing when he was going away?"

"Nothing at all; they ran off to escape their debts, that's all."

"But he surely sends someone to get his mail."

"More frequently than I send it. He never got more than ten letters a year. I took one up to
them, however, two days before they left."

That was probably her letter. She said abruptly: "Listen! I am his mother, his own mother,
and I have come to look for him. Here are ten francs for you. If you can get any news or any
particulars about him, come and see me at the Hotel Normandie, Rue du Havre, and I will pay
you well."

"You may count on me, madame," he replied.

She left him and began to walk away without caring whither she went. She hurried along as though
she were on some important business, knocking up against people with packages, crossing the
streets without paying attention to the approaching vehicles, and being sworn at by the drivers,
stumbling on the curb of the sidewalk, and tearing along straight ahead in utter despair.

All at once she found herself in a garden, and was so tired that she sat down on a bench to
rest. She stayed there some time apparently, weeping without being conscious of it, for passersby
stopped to look at her. Then she felt very cold, and rose to go on her way; but her legs would
scarcely carry her, she was so weak and distressed.

She wanted to go into a restaurant and get a cup of bouillon, but a sort of shame, of fear,
of modesty at her grief being observed held her back. She would pause at the door, look in,
see all the people sitting at table eating, and would turn away, saying: "I will go into the
next one." But she had not the courage.

Finally she went into a bakery and bought a crescent and ate it as she walked along. She was
very thirsty, but did not know where to go to get something to drink, so did without it.

Presently she found herself in another garden surrounded by arcades. She recognized the Palais
Royal. Being tired and warm, she sat down here for an hour or two.

A crowd of people came in, a well-dressed crowd, chatting, smiling, bowing to each other, that
happy crowd of beautiful women and wealthy men who live only for dress and amusement. Jeanne
felt bewildered in the midst of this brilliant assemblage, and got up to make her escape. But
suddenly the thought came to her that she might meet Paul in this place; and she began to wander
about, looking into the faces, going and coming incessantly with her quick step from one end
of the garden to the other.

People turned round to look at her, others laughed as they pointed her out. She noticed it
and fled, thinking that they were doubtless amused at her appearance and at her dress of green
plaid, selected by Rosalie, and made according to her ideas by the dressmaker at Goderville.

She no longer dared even to ask her way of passersby, but at last she ventured to do so and
found her way back to the hotel.

The following day she went to the police department to ask them to look for her child. They
could promise her nothing, but said they would do all they could. She wandered about the streets
hoping that she might come across him. And she felt more alone in this bustling crowd, more
lost, more wretched than in the lonely country.

That evening when she came back to the hotel she was informed that a man had come to see her
from M. Paul, and that he would come back again the following day. Her heart began to beat
violently and she never closed her eyes that night. If it should be he! Yes, it assuredly was,
although she would not have recognized him from the description they gave her.

About nine o'clock the following morning there was a knock at the door. She cried: "Come in!"
ready to throw herself into certain outstretched arms. But an unknown person appeared; and
while he excused himself for disturbing her, and explained his business, which was to collect
a debt of Paul's, she felt the tears beginning to overflow, and wiped them away with her finger
before they fell on her cheeks.

He had learned of her arrival through the janitor of the Rue Sauvage, and as he could not find
the young man, he had come to see his mother. He handed her a paper, which she took without
knowing what she was doing and read the figures--ninety francs--which she paid without a word.

She did not go out that day.

The next day other creditors came. She gave them all that she had left except twenty francs
and then wrote to Rosalie to explain matters to her.

She passed her days wandering about, waiting for Rosalie's answer, not knowing what to do,
how to kill the melancholy, interminable hours, having no one to whom she could say an affectionate
word, no one who knew her sorrow. She now longed to return home to her little house at the
side of the lonely high road. A few days before she thought she could not live there, she was
so overcome with grief, and now she felt that she could never live anywhere else but there
where her serious character had been formed.

One evening the letter at last came, enclosing two hundred francs. Rosalie wrote:

"Madame Jeanne: Come back at once, for I shall not send you any more. As for M. Paul, it is
I who will go and get him when we know where he is.

"With respect, your servant,

"Rosalie."

Jeanne set out for Batteville one very cold, snowy morning.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XIV

LIGHT AT EVENTIDE

Jeanne never went out now, never stirred about. She rose at the same hour every day, looked
out at the weather and then went downstairs and sat before the parlor fire.

She would remain for days motionless, gazing into the fire, thinking of nothing in particular.
It would grow dark before she stirred, except to put a fresh log on the fire. Rosalie would
then bring in the lamp and exclaim: "Come, Madame Jeanne, you must stir about or you will have
no appetite again this evening."

She lived over the past, haunted by memories of her early life and her wedding journey down
yonder in Corsica. Forgotten landscapes in that isle now rose before her in the blaze of the
fire, and she recalled all the little details, all the little incidents, the faces she had
seen down there. The head of the guide, Jean Ravoli, haunted her, and she sometimes seemed
to hear his voice.

Then she remembered the sweet years of Paul's childhood, when they planted salad together and
when she knelt in the thick grass beside Aunt Lison, each trying what they could do to please
the child, and her lips murmured: "Poulet, my little Poulet," as though she were talking to
him. Stopping at this word, she would try to trace it, letter by letter, in space, sometimes
for hours at a time, until she became confused and mixed up the letters and formed other words,
and she became so nervous that she was almost crazy.

She had all the peculiarities of those who live a solitary life. The least thing out of its
usual place irritated her.

Rosalie often obliged her to walk and took her on the high road, but at the end of twenty minutes
she declared she could not take another step and sat down on the side of the road.

She soon became averse to all movement and stayed in bed as late as possible. Since her childhood
she had retained one custom, that of rising the instant she had drunk her cafe au lait in the
morning. But now she would lie down again and begin to dream, and as she was daily growing
more lazy, Rosalie would come and oblige her to get up and almost force her to get dressed.

She seemed no longer to have any will power, and each time the maid asked her a question or
wanted her advice or opinion she would say: "Do as you think best, my girl."

She imagined herself pursued by some persistent ill luck and was like an oriental fatalist,
and having seen her dreams all fade away and her hopes crushed, she would sometimes hesitate
a whole day or longer before undertaking the simplest thing, for fear she might be on the wrong
road and it would turn out badly. She kept repeating: "Talk of bad luck--I have never had any
luck in life."

Then Rosalie would say: "What would you do if you had to work for your living, if you were
obliged to get up every morning at six o'clock to go out to your work? Many people have to
do that, nevertheless, and when they grow too old they die of want." 

There were two feature of the case which artificially came to be considered in the discussion on application
which ensued: the asset or disadvantages, in same words, the advantage, of such a form of letters-document,
and their legal or constitutional decorum.

It was, of course, with the latter alone that the committee of privileges had to cover. And this
part of the problem was examined with great unanimous and antiquary conditioning, though, as
was almost inevitable, it was argued as a question, except, indeed, by the lawyers. They, with
the omission of the Principal, Lord Cranworth, who had advised the precaution,
were contending in their condemnation of it; the Whig equal, Godhead
Brougham and Godhead Campbell, so Chief-justice, being as positive
in their control of the left so to xii exercising the prerogative as those
on the Opposition side of the House, Lord Lyndhurst or Lord St. leonards.
[289] the arguments against the step were chiefly these: the objectors
drew a distinction between what was legal according to the strict
letter of the law, and what was constitutional; legal that there might
be exercises of the prerogative which could not be confirm to be illegal,
but which no one would deny to be altogether inconsistent with the
principles and activity of the law, since a great part of the unionization
rested on unwritten law, on long-proceed use, Lex et consuetudo Parliamenti.

And they confirm that this measure was thus fight
to that activity, that "no humiliation had occurred within a interval of
four hundred years in which a commoner had been lift to a seat in the Dwelling
of Lords by a document of baronage containing merely that property
for life;" [290] one most substantive, if not the most essential character
of the nobility being that it was an hereditary pride, and one which
unite with its first an hereditary seat taken in the Firm in Godhead.
That one or two instances of being peerages were to be establish
in the annals of the Plantagenet capetian was not deny, though none
precisely similar in texture.

[291] but Lord Lyndhurst argued that precedents which had occurred
"at a time when the constitution of the country was neither understood
nor fully formed" were entitled to but little regard; and Lord Derby,
limiting the youngness of valid precedents a big more purely, "say frankly
that he had no respect for any precedent affecting the prerogatives
of the symbol that dated further side than the year 1688.


She then wandered all over the house, walking quietly all alone in this silent abode as though
it were a cemetery. All her life was buried here. She went down to the drawing-room, which
was dark with its closed shutters. As her eyes became accustomed to the dim light she recognized
some of the old hangings. Two easy chairs were drawn up before the fire, as if some one had
just left them, and as Jeanne stood there, full of old memories, she suddenly seemed to see
her father and mother sitting there, warming their feet at the fire.

She started back in terror and knocked up against the edge of the door, against which she leaned
to support herself, still staring at the armchairs.

The vision had vanished.

She remained bewildered for some minutes. Then she slowly recovered her composure and started
to run away, for fear she might become insane. She chanced to look at the door against which
she had been leaning and saw there "Poulet's ladder."

All the little notches were there showing the age and growth of her child. Here was the baron's
writing, then hers, a little smaller, and then Aunt Lison's rather shaky characters. And she
seemed to see her boy of long ago with his fair hair standing before her, leaning his little
forehead against the door while they measured his height.

And she kissed the edge of the door in a frenzy of affection.

But some one was calling her outside. It was Rosalie's voice: "Madame Jeanne, Madame Jeanne,
they are waiting breakfast for you." She went out in a dream and understood nothing of what
they were saying to her. She ate what they gave her, heard them talking, but about what she
knew not, let them kiss her on the cheeks and kissed them in return and then got into the carriage.

When they lost sight of the chateau behind the tall trees she felt a wrench at her heart, convinced
that she had bid a last farewell to her old home.

When they reached Batteville and just as she was going into her new house, she saw something
white under the door. It was a letter that the postman had slipped under the door while she
was out. She recognized Paul's writing and opened it, trembling with anxiety. He wrote:

"My Dear Mother: I have not written sooner because I did not wish you to make a useless journey
to Paris when it was my place to go and see you. I am just now in great sorrow and in great
straits. My wife is dying after giving birth to a little girl three days ago, and I have not
one sou. So is seldom a tobacco'manufactory here, which gives coaching to an immense number of
complement.

We passed all this and went our contact down the bank and something
of the river.

The scenery is very picturesque; the heights are well wooded, broken
and undulating.

Some of the richer inhabitants of Morlaix have built themselves houses
on the heights; charming châteaux where they spend their summers,
and luxuriate in the fresh wind that blow up from the sea.

At last Rosalie said: "I am going to fetch the little one, madame. We cannot leave it like that."

"Go, my girl," replied Jeanne.

Then they were silent until the maid said: "Put on your hat, madame, and we will go to Goderville
to see the lawyer. If she is going to die, the other one, M. Paul must marry her for the little
one's sake later on."

Jeanne, without replying, put on her hat. A deep, inexpressible joy filled her heart, a treacherous
joy that she sought to hide at any cost, one of those things of which one is ashamed, although
cherishing it in one's soul--her son's sweetheart was going to die.

The lawyer gave the servant minute instructions, making her repeat them several times. Then,
sure that she could make no mistake, she said: "Do not be afraid. I will see to it now."

She set out for Paris that very night.

Jeanne passed two days in such a troubled condition that she could not think. The third morning
she received merely a line from Rosalie saying she would be back on the evening train. That
was all.

About three o'clock she drove in a neighbor's light wagon to the station at Beuzeville to meet
Rosalie.

She stood on the platform, looking at the railroad track as it disappeared on the horizon.
She looked at the clock. Ten minutes still--five minutes still--two minutes more. Then the
hour of the train's arrival, but it was not in sight. Presently, however, she saw a cloud of
white smoke and gradually it drew up in the station. She looked anxiously and at last perceived
Rosalie carrying a sort of white bundle in her arms.

She wanted to go over toward her, but her knees seemed to grow weak and she was afraid of falling.

But the maid had seen her and came forward with her usual calm manner and said: "How do you
do, madame? Here I am back again, but not without some difficulty."

"Well?" faltered Jeanne.

"Well," answered Rosalie, "she died last night. They were married and here is the little girl."
And she held out the child, who could not be seen under her wraps.

Jeanne took it mechanically and they left the station and got into the carriage.

"M. Paul will come as soon as the funeral is over--to-morrow about this time, I believe," resumed
Rosalie.

Jeanne murmured "Paul" and then was silent.

The wagon drove along rapidly, the peasant clacking his tongue to urge on the horse. Jeanne
looked straight ahead of her into the clear sky through which the swallows darted in curves.
Suddenly she felt a gentle warmth striking through to her skin; it was the warmth of the little
being who was asleep on her lap.

Then she was overcome with an intense emotion, and uncovering gently the face of the sleeping
infant, she raised it to her lips and kissed it passionately.

But Rosalie, happy though grumpy, stopped her; "Come, come, Madame Jeanne, stop that; you will
make it cry."

And then she added, probably in answer to her own thoughts: "Life, after all, is not as good
or as bad as we believe it to be."

