"Don't be afraid, Potts," he said at last, "I have been reading a very very strange letter,
and I forgot the hours, I will go and lie down now; don't make any fuss about it, and I'll
tell you the important news after breakfast."

Poor Potts went off to the kitchen shaking her head as usual, and murmuring to herself all
the while, such exclamations as "Well, well now." "That's quare now." "Well to be sure." It
was with her brain quite in a whirl that she went about her morning duties, wondering very
much what could have come over her master, to make him forget to go to bed. When Fitts came
in at the back door, with an armful of wood, Mrs. Potts could not conceal her gratification
at having been the first to discover the secret, and she rattled on (to herself, as it were)
with her back turned to Fitts, "Well shure 'tis the quarest thing in life--all through the
night, too; dear, oh dear! Such a life's enough to turn one gray in no time."

"What have you there all to yourself now, dear Mrs. Potts," came from Fitts as he flung the
wood into the box, "come now, I heard you, what's throublin', what's inside your purty border
this time, your mind I mane?"

"Be off with you now mister Fitts; 'tis other people's minds that's bothered, an' I'm only
sorry for it: but y'ell know soon enough; the master 'ill tell ye when he sees fit, and ye
can be preparin' for it till then."

"Well now, that's funny," says he. "How did you come to know anything since last night?" and
there was a suspicion of jealousy in his voice, "I left the master meself the last thing, last
night, an' he's not up this mornin' yet, so what are ye dhrivin' at?"

"I know what I know," said the irritating Potts, "and I'm sorry I can't tell ye but its a saycret
yet awhile; be patient."

"Who wants to know it anyway?" said Fitts, who was quite vexed now, "I'm sure I don't," and
he went out with a slight intimation that he had securely closed the door behind him.

At nine o'clock Henry Rayne came downstairs, looking tired and pale, and instead of his usual
hearty breakfast, he merely drank a cup of warm coffee. He had just finished this, and was
balancing his spoon on the edge of his cup, as he cogitated upon the strange mission that had
been thrust upon him, when Potts came in to serve his "second cup," but instead of this, he
bade her summons Fitts, that he had something to tell them both. When a few moments later Henry
Rayne turned to confront his servants, who stood expectant before him, his troubled face and
serious air made them start perceptibly; in an earnest tone he said,

"I have received an important letter from a friend of mine, who has died since the writing
thereof; he has entrusted me with the care of his only child, and to comply with his dying
request I must make immediate preparations to leave home, for I have a long way to travel before
I can accomplish his desire; I therefore want you to understand that I may be a very long or
a very short while away from home, but I wish you both to serve me as faithfully on this occasion
as you have on all others. Don't talk about my absence more than you can help; I can give all
the necessary explanation on my return." "Potts," he said, addressing the solemn looking old
woman separately, "you must renovate the house a little, I think; those spare bedrooms must
be well aired and touched up somewhat, for we will need them henceforth. My little charge happens
to be a girl, and unless you can contribute towards making things to her liking, I am lost.
Spare no expense to make the house comfortable in every respect, for the protegee of mine is
a lady, I know. And you, Fitts," he continued, turning to the dignified male servant, "will,
I am sure, lend a hand towards the general improvement. See that the phaeton and sleighs be
in good order, and, in fact, I think you will each do your duties well, without my enumerating
them. You know I have full confidence in both of you, and I think you will not abuse of it."
The two devoted attendants answered sincerely, each with a suspicion of moisture in their eyes
that answered Mr. Rayne more than anything else.

On the following afternoon Mr. Rayne left Ottawa, on his extended trip, much to the surprise
of his friends, and according to promise, his servants displayed the greatest discretion possible.
Within the week, Mr. Fitts was delighted to receive news from his master, informing him that
in a few days he would sail for Liverpool.

The voyage across the majestic ocean, was a fair and enjoyable one, and Mr. Rayne spent the
days out on the deck of the splendid "Parisian," smoking and thinking, and wondering at the
unusual turn things had taken for him, since last he crossed that same Atlantic. He was anxious
to know how it would all end, and whether he would be able for this new responsibility brought
to him so suddenly. Heaven had not willed him the experience of a wedded life, and so he resolved
to devote himself to this little charge as though she were his own flesh and blood; he would
teach her to give him a father's love, and if he could help it, she would never know the want
of a father's care.

The first duty of Henry Rayne, on landing at Liverpool, was to consult the letter of his deceased
friend, and write to the address given therein, to inform the parties alluded to, of his arrival.
Special mention was made of one, "Anne Palmer," who was spoken of highly, as a faithful and
trustworthy woman, who had nursed the child from her infancy. This gratified Henry Rayne immensely,
for he resolved, at any cost, to secure her, knowing how necessary her long and untiring attendance
must have made her to the girl's existence.

A reply to his kind letter reached Henry Rayne some days before he had expected it, informing
him that Honor Edgeworth and her maid had left on the day following the receipt of his letter,
and would shortly join him at Liverpool. Such indeed was the case, for even as Henry Rayne
read the words over to himself, as fast as steam and water could carry her, Honor Edgeworth
was travelling away from her native home. She saw not, heeded not, the passengers, the scenery,
the bustle, and confusion that surrounded her; she only leant her head on the shoulder of her
old nurse, and wept silent, bitter tears all the while. Poor Nanette strove hard to console
her in her woe, but the swelling never left the pretty eyes, and the sighs never ceased escaping
from the dainty lips during the whole voyage.

"It is such a queer destiny, Nanette," she said repeatedly, "this man may hate me. He was only
a boy when papa knew him; perhaps he has grown up a wicked man that will detest me, you know
Nanette, people change a great deal sometimes."

"Don't fret, my beauty," was all the disconsolate woman could say. "You may be sure your father
did not act in the dark, where his little girl was concerned. He had great trouble in finding
the gentleman's address at all, so you may be sure he looked for other information at the same
time."

"Yes, I suppose he did," Honor sighed, half resignedly. "What the end will be, time will tell."

From London they telegraphed to Mr. Rayne, telling him of their safe arrival thus far, and
seized with an insuperable impatience to become known to his little protegee, he answered them
immediately, that he would meet them in Manchester. The night was wet and dark and cheerless,
as Nanette and her pretty charge rolled into this large manufacturing city of England. All
the other passengers had hurried out, they alone remained, careless whether they went or stayed,
sadly and listlessly, they proceeded to gather up their little belongings, dashing away as
they did so, scalding tears that welled into their eyes.

"Are you ready, love?" Nanette asked plaintively, turning towards Honor.

"Yes I am," the girl answered with a sigh, "ready for the battle of life--come along, Nanette."

Just as she uttered the words, and before she had stepped from the railway carriage, the guard,
accompanied by a gentleman, thrust his head in, and hurriedly announcing "Mr. Rayne, ladies,"
darted off again, leaving them together. The long looked for moment had arrived: the first
meeting, upon which so many thoughts were spent by all three, was already over. Honor Edgeworth
raised her eyes to the gentleman announced, and a smile of infinite relief broke over her face;
Mr Rayne raised his hat to the younger lady, and a mysterious smile of infinite admiration
stole over his face. He broke the silence by addressing Nanette.

"I presume, madam," he began, "you are the person in charge of Miss Edgeworth, the young lady
recommended to my future care?" and before she had time to answer, he had extended both hands
to Honor.

"Yes, sir," said Nanette, a little nervously, "I give into your hands all that I hold dearest
in life;" and then, lowering her voice, she continued, almost to herself, "I can go back again
to my poor old home, but the sunshine is gone out of it forever."

Henry Rayne looked quickly up at her: he was assisting Honor out, as she spoke.

"Is it possible that you are not coming to Canada with us?"' he asked in a confounded tone.

"Ah, sir!" answered the poor creature, "I will go in heart, indeed, but there was no provision
made to send me all the way with the child."

"Oh this can never be," Henry Rayne interrupted, hurriedly, "I have intended from the first,
that you should not be left. Come, come, we will manage everything smoothly by and by. Do not
leave one another now, unnecessarily, when you have been together all your lives." There was
a shout of delight from both, and clasped in each other's arms, never to part again, they thanked
God sincerely for His goodness to them, so far.

"The dear child, sir, I'd have died without her." Nanette sobbed through the tears of joy.

"Of course you would," Henry Rayne answered, handing them into the carriage that awaited them.
He cast an admiring glance on "the child" in question, as he sat himself opposite to her on
the leather buttoned seat of the hack. If "child" she must be, she would undoubtedly prove
an interesting one, for she was now, to all appearances, in her seventeenth year, and showed
promises of future development into a splendid woman. For the first few moments Nanette never
ceased her protestations of gratitude, and when at last she finished them in a great sob behind
her handkerchief, Honor looked sweetly up in Mr. Rayne's face and said.

"Your first act, dear guardian, was one of unsolicited kindness. What will after years bring,
when we have learned to respect and love you, and do you good turns as well? The future seems
so bright, now that Nanette is coming, for," she explained "you must know, Mr. Rayne, she is
the only mother I have ever known, and when dear papa lived he treated Nanette just as he would
a member of his own family."

"And I will never be the one to make the first difference," answered Mr. Rayne. "My house is
large; I am a crusty old bachelor, with no other tie binding me to the world, except this new
link that has just filled me with a desire to live anew from this out. All I have is at your
disposal: you must make yourself perfectly at home with me. I don't know much about winning
the confidence and hearts of young girls now, but I shall expect you to come to me with yours,
because henceforth you are going to be all my own."

"I do not wish to dispute it, Mr. Rayne," Honor answered sweetly, "but I have a presentiment
that you are going to spoil me."

"Oh I won't be very cross with you, unless you steal my spectacles or court my footman, or
do anything like that," Henry Rayne answered playfully.

Thus, in the pleasantest manner possible, were the first hours of their rencontre spent. When
their drive ended, they alighted before a handsome hotel, ablaze with light, where a tempting
supper awaited them. Henry Rayne, fancying that it was the right thing to do to young girls
who had been travelling a great deal, told Honor she must retire immediately. "We have our
lives long to chat," he said, "so rest yourselves well to night"

When they had reached their rooms, Honor turned with a bright smile on her face, and said to
Nanette,

"Don't you think he will be just lovely and kind, dear Nanette? He is a perfect gentleman."

"God bless him," answered Nanette, "he is a good man and has a good heart, and we must never
have him regret what he has done for us."

"Well, it is a great weight off my mind anyhow," said Honor, with a sigh of relief, "I am full
of hopes now for the future, and I know we cannot help loving dear kind Mr. Rayne;" and over
such enthusiastic words Honor and Nanette fell into their deep calm sleep.

All this time Henry Rayne was smoking quietly in the parlor below, and thinking of the lovely
face that was going to shed its radiance henceforth on his silent home. Already he longed for
the morning to come, that he might look on it again. In the course of his meditation, a thought
came to him, which had not suggested itself before, and it was this:

"If the world should choose to attach its own interpretation to this new relationship, if a
word was cast afloat which could scatter the germs of a suspicion, what then? If those venomous
tongues that keep the world buzzing with scandal chose to attack her, how was he to prevent
it?" A cloud overshadowed his face, there was a momentary pang in his heart, but he consoled
himself that he had thought of it in time--he would defy the world, his manner towards her
would dare gossiping tongues, he was nearly three times her age now, and had his life not been
such as could defy the babbling of the whole world?

But it was only the old tale, a woman's name is a tempting bit to society, in one of its particular
phases, though, of course, even society in this, its calumniated epoch yet retains its discrimination,
its rules are not so arbitrary as its enemies declare them, and its heart is at times susceptible
to the pleadings of misfortune for mercy. Woman, alas! has her fallen sister on every rung
of the social ladder, though from general appearances one would be led to judge, that wealth
and position and fame, claim virtue as all their own, it seems, that vice and error thrive
only where poverty and ignorance and destitution abide, is this so? Ye who know the secrets
of a fashionable world, ye, who have seen laid bare, the hearts full of secrets of pampered
ladies, and pretentious dames, say, are they so guileless, so spotless, so blameless as society
would have them? Is it only the poor seamstress, or the working-girl that is human enough to
err? Is it only the breast which heaves under tatters and rags, that bears the impress of the
trembling hand that has struck the "mea culpa" in its woe? O, I doubt it, I for one deny it.
True it is, painfully, shamefully true it is, that the "nobodies" of the world who meet misfortune
are mercilessly forced to stand in the corridors of time, that those, who domineer in virtue,
may ostentatiously compassionate them, but will such a paltry show of charity as this, blind
the world, as it tries to do? Let us hope not. Let the pampered daughter of wealth and social
fame, who goes astray, share the pitiless fate of the beggar who does likewise, or, better
still, let the beggar be shown such mercy, and justification and pardon as is granted her sister
in high life. In the sight of God crime is the one color, why not so with men? If anything,
vice repels far more forcibly, when attired in its velvets and silks, than when it looks out
from scanty rags, which after all, may be turned more easily to sack cloth. Who can doubt that
there are hundreds of outcasts, living in persistent wrong doing, on account of this lack of
humanity, this total abstinence of Christian charity, whose exercise could redeem just as many
as its scarcity ruins. Poor foolish souls! Why need they thirst for mercy or sympathy that
is human, know they not, that they are as justified in spurning the world's great ones, as
those great ones are in spurning them. What can human mercy avail them, after all, is there
not a Good Shepherd, so eager, so ready, so anxious to grant forgiveness for the asking? Why
do ye not seek Him, ye whom a rigorous society has cast out of its pale? be not content to
live on as drudges and slaves to such a heartless world when there is a harvest for you to
gather so near, and you have only to learn the words of Him who spoke truth and wisdom themselves
to encourage you onward, that "there is more joy in heaven over the conversion of one sinner
than at the perseverance of ninety-nine just."

CHAPTER II.

  "Ah poor child, with heart of woman
     Solitary, quiet, grave;
  Strong of will and firm of purpose
     Self absorbed in silence brave"

A page or two, of the record of time, turned over unnoticed, will not be missed out of the
careers of our characters, it will include the days that have elapsed since that night that
Honor Edgeworth lay wide awake on her pillow, playing with the shadowy visions of a possible
future, as they danced around her bed, since that night in Manchester, when Nanette slept so
contentedly and Henry Rayne smoked in moody silence by the fire-place in the hotel parlor.
When we become interested again, it is a clear, bright day, blue and white threads of filmy
loveliness flit along the sky, a soft, gentle breeze is blowing, and over the restless waves
of the broad Atlantic the "Parisian" is skipping gracefully. She is nearing the port, and many
are the anxious, weary faces that turn landward with a sigh upon their lips.

Among the others that are gathered here and there on her broad decks, on this lovely glorious
afternoon, we are compelled to notice the graceful, slender form, of a young girl, who sits
a little away from the others, with her head leaning on her folded hands, and her sad eyes
resting on the troubled waters in a fixed, but vacant stare, she is thinking, it is evident,
and thinking deeply, there is not a muscle moving in her handsome face, her lips are set, her
chin is slightly raised, the loose locks are blowing with the wind now and then from off her
brow, but her eyes ever seek the deepest depth of the green blue sea. She might be a perfect
statue, only for the gentle heaving of her breast, that rises and falls in little sighs.

Every one has noticed her, but none would intrude upon her in this reverie, that seems to be
her normal state, her face has assumed that expression of intense emotion that could fascinate
the most unwilling victim, and indeed they are very few who are not willing to pay a tribute
at that shrine, while she in her unconsciousness, is living the long sunny hours, down in the
bottomless sea, trying to penetrate it with the eyes of her soul, trying to fathom the fathomless,
to understand the mysterious, and to shape into existence the uncreated, these are the strange
things that rivet the gaze of Honor Edgeworth on the spray of the billows below. At last she
starts up, as if in broken slumber, and turns suddenly 'round.

Two heavy hands have been laid on her slender shoulders, two eyes full of glowing admiration
are turned upon her, and Henry Rayne, in a low, loving voice says in her ear:

"Come back to the deck of the 'Parisian' Honor for a little while, you have been down with
the 'whales and little fishes' long enough now."

Her eyes filled with tenderness as she looked up to the good face bending over her.

"Oh Mr. Rayne, is it you?" she said "I was wondering where you were, is Nanette sleeping yet?"

"Yes, my dear," he answered, drawing a seat near hers, "and I've been amused by the little
window there for fifteen minutes, wondering what there was existing capable of making any one
strike such a thoughtful attitude as yours."

"Why, Mr. Rayne, all I could condense into my poor little brain at once, is not worth attracting
your grand attention. But, I love to think: I have so many little ethereal friends that flock
around me when I sit down to think, they are all my ideals, you know." She continued, clasping
her hands enthusiastically, "In that little world of thought, where I drift so often in the
day, there is none of that coldness nor selfishness that characterizes your material world.
We are all equal, and we love one another so much! I don't know when it fascinated me first,
but it seems so natural to me now to steal away there from the din of active life. But how
is it you always catch me just when I've forgotten that there is any reality at all?"

"Because, I suppose," laughed Mr. Rayne "you are always in that state of blissful forgetfulness,
and if you don't mind yourself you'll fall into a chronic state of dreaming, and then be no
more to us than a veritable somnambulist, now, you wouldn't like that, would you?"

"Oh, there is no fear of that, I am not spiritual enough yet to abandon stern reality altogether,
but I fancy you will often tire of me before you grow quite accustomed to my strange caprices?"

"Why my dear little Honor, is that the color you would have me paint your future? surely not.
If Destiny has raised my hand to blend the colors in the fair scenery of your life, I will
stain the canvas a 'couleur de rose,' and make it a lovely thing to contemplate, if I possibly
can, so do not ever sigh to-day for to-morrow, know beforehand that it will be just as you
will have it."

"Ah, ha! Mr. Rayne, who is waxing romantic now," the girl cried playfully, "I'm so glad to
have caught you once. But do you know, I sometimes wonder, if all these days have not really
been spent in my fairy land, for things have happened as harmoniously as though life were not
a series of discords at its best, Nanette was not forced to leave me, and you did not get bored
at my eccentricities, and I liked you so much right away, and our safe journey, and everything
together."

"Well, I hope it will convince you my child," said Rayne earnestly, "that life in its common-place
acceptation is not so dreadful as you have pronounced it--wait a while--a little practical
experience will serve to persuade you, that there are a few redeeming traits in the big, nasty
world after all, and will force you to give up these wild theories of idealism that are strangely
out of place in a young girl of our period."

"So many tell me that," said Honor distractedly, "but I can't know of course, just yet, what
difference all the complicated circumstances that wind themselves around other girl's lives,
will make in mine, if they change me at all, they must make an entirely different person of
me, and if they are baffled, I will only be stronger and more obstinate than ever in my own
views. Either of these must be my destiny, as yet I know no partiality towards either one,
but I think it is because I feel so safe in myself that I defy other influences to do their worst."

