Letter of Washington on the subject of promotions in the army. Dated 1779.

Note of invitation from Washington to Dr. John Thomas to dinner. Dr. Thomas was surgeon of
the Massachusetts line. Dated headquarters, Newburgh, 1780.

Soldiers' discharge, signed by Washington, 1782.

Letter of the Marquis de Lafayette on the subject of fortifying the North river. Written to
Governor Clinton in 1778.

Letter of the Baron Steuben to Governor Clinton on the good appearance of the New York line
of the army. Dated New Windsor, 1780.

Letter of Lord Stirling to Governor Clinton on the discharge of the command of Major Wessenfells.
Dated Albany, 1782.

Letter of Clinton in reply.

Resolution drawn up in Congress, and signed by John Hancock, requesting the state of New York
to erect a monument, at continental expense, to the memory of Brigadier-General Herkimer, killed
on the Mohawk in 1777. Dated in Congress, 1777.

Letter of Captain Abraham Schenck, of Fishkill, containing an order for old linen rags, for
lint, for the surgeon of his command. Dated near Croton, 1776.

Letter of General Heath relating to beacons in the highlands. Dated Robintson's House, 1780.

Letter of General Heath on the condition of the prisoners confined in the Provost prison, at
West Point. Dated Highlands, 1780.

Letter of Captain Nathaniel Toms, describing a chase after the British over the Schuylkill in 1777.

Journal of Lemuel Lyon, of Woodstock, Vermont, who served in the French and Indian war, in
the expedition against Ticonderoga, commanded by General Abercrombie. The journal commences
on the 5th of April, 1758, and closes on the 16th of November, 1759.

Journal of Samuel Haws, one of the minute-men called out on the day of the battle of Lexington:
commencing April 19, 1775, and ending in January, 1776.

Three original letters of Washington to Colonel Marinus Willet, relating to a secret expedition
against Oswego in 1782. Dated at Newburgh headquarters, 1782.

Letter of Joshua H. Smith, the person who conducted André toward the British lines. Directed
from Goshen jail to Governor Clinton, complaining of the state of his health and the closeness
of his confinement. Dated 1780.

Letter of Ezekiel Hyatt, of Crompond, Westchester county, to James Jackson, Esq., of Fishkill,
in Dutchess county, informing him that Husson, a notorious cowboy and freebooter, had gone
up to steal his horses, and was to have a hundred guineas if he got them. Dated Crompond, 1777.

Letter of Lieutenant Lawrence on the subject of the departure of the British fleet from the
harbor of Newport. Dated Reading, 1780.

Letter by the direction of Washington to Abraham Schenck and others, of Fishkill, to solicit
shirts of the inhabitants of their precinct for the soldiers of the army, many of whom were
utterly destitute of that article. Dated Kingston, 1780.

Letter of Samuel Barker, while confined in the Provost prison, New York, to his wife in Westchester
county. Dated Provost Prison, 1777.

MISCELLANEOUS ARTICLES.

Lock of Washington's hair--an unquestionable relic--derived from the late Judge Thompson, of
the supreme court of the United States. Presented by his recent widow, the present Mrs. Lansing,
of Poughkeepsie.

Fragments of the first coffin of Washington. Presented by Lewis Grube, Esq., artist, Poughkeepsie.

One of the points of the chevaux-de-frieze placed in the Hudson river, near New Windsor, in
1780, to prevent the passage of the British ships. It was raised accidentally by the anchor
of a sloop commanded by Captain Abraham Elting, in New Paltiz, Ulster county, in 1836. It is
pointed with iron, and weighs some hundreds of pounds.

Wooden camp candlestick, used in General Smallwood's brigade while encamped at Fishkill, in
Dutchess county, in the Revolution. From Jackson Diddle, Esq., Fishkill.

Homespun linen rifle-shirt, worn by Captain Abraham Duryea at the battle of Long Island. From
Charles Robinson, Esq., Fishkill.

Sheet of stamp-parchment, containing the stamps and duties of the stamp-act.

Sword of Captain Archibald Campbell, killed at the skirmish at Ward's house, in Weschester
county, in 1776. Captain Campbell was the commanding officer of the British party. From his
grandson, Captain Archibald Campbell, of Pawlings, Dutchess county.

Sword of one of Lee's legion, of Virginia. It has inscribed, on one side of the blade, "Victory
or Death!"--on the opposite side, "Grenadiers of Virginia."

Tooth of Miss Jane M'Crea, found lying in her coffin when her remains were disinterred and
removed to Fort Edward in 1824, by Mr. George Barker, of Sandy Hill, and presented by him to
the late Captain Matthew Danvers, of Sandy Hill, and to the collection by his widow, Mrs. Mary
Danvers, of Poughkeepsie.

Iron-pipe tomahawk, found on the battle-field of Saratoga. From Van Wyck Brinkerhoff, Esq.,
of Fishkill.

Cannon-rammer, taken with Burgoyne at Saratoga. Purchased, with a lot of other "lumber" (sold
at West Point by order of the government, after the Revolution), by Joseph Jackson, Esq., and
others, of Fishkill. From Van Wyck Brinkerhoff, Esq., of Fishkill.

Knapsack of Captain David Uhl, a captain of militia in the Revolution, and worn by him when
he joined his regiment at Harlem, in 1776. It is made of homespun linen. From his daughter,
Mrs. Henry Abell, of Union Vale, Dutchess county.

Hessian camp-kettle, dug up on the battle-field of Bennington. By Mr. Charles Hoag, of Dover,
Dutchess county.

Iron spur, found on the battle-field of the Cowpens. It is much rusted, and is believed to
have belonged to one of Tarleton's men. From B. J. Lossing, Esq., of Poughkeepsie.

United States musket, found on the line of the retreat of the Americans from the battle-ground
at Hubbardton, Vermont. It has the date of 1774 on the breech. From B. J. Lossing, Esq.

Collection of relics from all the battle-fields of the Revolution. From B. J. Lossing, Esq.

Cocked hat, worn by Lemuel Lyon on board the tea-ship in Boston harbor. The wearer was the
writer of the first Journal in this volume. From his relative, Mr. J. Colby, of New York city.

Surgical instruments of Dr. John Thomas, a regimental surgeon in the Revolution. They were
used in several of the principal battles of the war. From his son, Mr. Thomas, of Poughkeepsie.

Original portrait of Dr. John Thomas.

Broken United States bayonet, found on the battle-ground of Guilford Courthouse, North Carolina.
By Mr. Charles Ney, of Amenia, Dutchess county.

Bayonet of John Woodin, a continental soldier. The point of this instrument was broken off
in the wall of the fort at Stony Point, when in the body of a British soldier. Presented by
a relative.

A Spanish dollar, taken from the cavity of the hip-bone of a skeleton dug up at Bemis's heights,
Saratoga, in 1841. With it were five other dollars and an English guinea, and also a fragment
of leather, supposed to be the remains of a purse or pocket-book. From Mrs. John Wing, of Washington,
Dutchess county.

English musket, taken in a skirmish from a foraging-party of the British in Westchester county,
in the Revolution, by Captain Abraham Meriot, of Newcastle, Westchester county, commander of
a party of American militia. From Mr. John Townsend, of Poughkeepsie.

Tory musket, hidden during the whole period of the Revolution, in a hollow tree, in Dover,
Dutchess county, to prevent its being seized by the committee-men and used against the king.

English musket, brought off from the battle-field of White Plains by Colonel Abraham Humphrey,
of Smallwood's brigade. Presented by the late Colonel Humphrey Cornell, of Beekman, Dutchess
county.

Fragments of human-bones from the battle-field of Red Bank. From B. J. Lossing, Esq., of Poughkeepsie.

