In the course of the following year Mr. Murray sent the boy to a well-known school at Gosport,
kept by Dr. Burney, one of his old Mends. Burney was a native of the North of Ireland, and
had originally been called MacBurney, but, like Murray, he dropped the Mac.

While at Dr. Burney's school, young Murray had the misfortune to lose the sight of his right
eye. The writing-master was holding his penknife awkwardly in his hand, point downwards, and
while the boy, who was showing up an exercise, stooped to pick up the book which had fallen,
the blade ran into his eye and entirely destroyed the sight. To a friend about to proceed to
Gosport, Mr. Murray wrote: "Poor John has met with a sad accident, which you will be too soon
acquainted with when you reach Gosport. His mother is yet ignorant of it, and I dare not tell her."

Eventually the boy was brought to London for the purpose of ascertaining whether something
might be done by an oculist for the restoration of his sight. But the cornea had been too deeply
wounded; the fluid of the eye had escaped; nothing could be done for his relief, and he remained
blind in that eye to the end of his life. [Footnote: Long afterwards Chantrey the sculptor,
who had suffered a similar misfortune, exclaimed, "What! are you too a brother Cyclops?" but,
as the narrator of the story used to add, Mr. Murray could see better with one eye than most
people with two.] His father withdrew him from Dr. Burney's school, and sent him in July 1793
to the Rev. Dr. Roberts, at Loughborough House, Kennington. The Botoners had given freely to the building
of the church and cloisters of which Richard II laid the first stone
in 1385 and afterwards largely endowed "on condition that they should
find and maintain within the precinct of their house, twelve poor
scholars from seven years old till they accomplished the age of seventeen
years, there to pray for the good estate of him the said King and
of his Consort, during this life, and for the health of their souls
after death."

INDEX Abbots of Coventry, 4. The branches to be learnt are these: Latin, French, Arithmetic,
Mercantile Accounts, Elocution, History, Geography, Geometry, Astronomy, the Globes, Mathematics,
Philosophy, Dancing, and Martial Exercise."

Certainly, a goodly array of learning, knowledge, and physical training!

To return to the history of Mr. Murray's publications. Some of his best books were published
after the stroke of paralysis which he had sustained, and among them must be mentioned Mitford's
"History of Greece," Lavater's work on Physiognomy, and the first instalment of Isaac D'Israeli's
"Curiosities of Literature."

The following extract from a letter to the Rev. Mr. Whitaker, dated December 20, 1784, takes
us back to an earlier age.

"Poor Dr. Johnson's remains passed my door for interment this afternoon. They were accompanied
by thirteen mourning coaches with four horses each; and after these a cavalcade of the carriages
of his friends. He was about to be buried in Westminster Abbey."

In the same year the Rev. Alexander Fraser of Kirkhill, near Inverness, communicated to Mr.
Murray his intention of publishing the Memoirs of Lord Lovat, the head of his clan. Mr. Eraser's
father had received the Memoirs in manuscript from Lord Lovat, with an injunction to publish
them after his death. "My father," he said, "had occasion to see his Lordship a few nights
before his execution, when he again enjoined him to publish the Memoirs." General Fraser, a
prisoner in the Castle of Edinburgh, had requested, for certain reasons, that the publication
should be postponed; but the reasons no longer existed, and the Memoirs were soon after published
by Mr. Murray, but did not meet with any success.

The distressed state of trade and the consequent anxieties of conducting his business hastened
Mr. Murray's end. On November 6, 1793, Samuel Highley, his principal assistant, wrote to a
correspondent: "Mr. Murray died this day after a long and painful illness, and appointed as
executors Dr. G.A. Paxton, Mrs. Murray, and Samuel Highley. The business hereafter will be
conducted by Mrs. Murray." The Rev. Donald Grant, D.D., and George Noble, Esq., were also executors,
but the latter did not act.

The income of the property was divided as follows: one half to the education and maintenance
of Mr. Murray's three children, and the other half to his wife so long as she remained a widow.
But in the event of her marrying again, her share was to be reduced by one-third and her executorship
was to cease.

John Murray began his publishing career at the age of twenty-three. He was twenty-five years
in business, and he died at the comparatively early age of forty-eight. That publishing books
is not always a money-making business may be inferred from the fact that during these twenty-five
years he did not, with all his industry, double his capital. He was his father's only surviving
son by his second marriage, and being only fifteen at his father's death, was too young to
enter upon the business of the firm, which was carried on by Samuel Highley--the "faithful
shopman" mentioned in the elder Murray's will--for the benefit of his widow and family. What
his father thought of him, of his health, spirits, and good nature, will have been seen from
the preceding chapter.

Young Murray returned to school, and remained there for about two years longer, until the marriage
of his mother to Lieutenant Henry Paget, of the West Norfolk Militia, on September 28, 1795,
when he returned to 32, Meet Street, to take part in the business. Mrs. Paget ceased to be
an executor, retired from Fleet Street, and went to live at Bridgenorth with her husband, taking
her two daughters--Jane and Mary Anne Murray--to live with her, and receiving from time to
time the money necessary for their education.

The executors secured the tenancy of No. 32, Fleet Street, part of the stock and part of the
copyrights, for the firm of Murray & Highley, between whom a partnership was concluded in 1795,
though Murray was still a minor. In the circumstances Mr. Highley of course took the principal
share of the management, but though a very respectable person, he was not much of a business
man, and being possessed by an almost morbid fear of running any risks, he brought out no new
works, took no share in the new books that were published, and it is doubtful whether he looked
very sharply after the copyrights belonging to the firm. He was mainly occupied in selling
books brought out by other publishers.

The late Mr. Murray had many good friends in India, who continued to send home their orders
to the new firm of Murray & Highley. Amongst them were Warren Hastings and Joseph Hume. Hume
had taken out with him an assortment of books from the late Mr. Murray, which had proved very
useful; and he wrote to Murray and Highley for more. Indeed, he became a regular customer for
books.

Meanwhile Murray fretted very much under the careless and indifferent management of Highley.
The executors did not like to be troubled with his differences with his partner, and paid very
little attention to him or his affairs. Since his mother's remarriage and removal to Bridgenorth,
the young man had literally no one to advise with, and was compelled to buffet with the troubles
and difficulties of life alone. Though inexperienced, he had, however, spirit and common sense
enough to see that he had but little help to expect from his partner, and the difficulties
of his position no doubt contributed to draw forth and develop his own mental energy. He was
not a finished scholar, but had acquired a thorough love of knowledge and literature, and a
keen perception of the beauties of our great English classics. By acquiring and cultivating
a purity of taste, he laid the foundations of that quick discrimination which, combined with
his rapidly growing knowledge of men and authors, rendered him afterwards so useful, and even
powerful, in the pursuit of his profession.

Mr. Murray came of age on November 27, 1799; but he was prudent enough to continue with Highley
for a few years longer. After four years more, he determined to set himself free to follow
his own course, and the innumerable alterations and erasures in his own rough draft of the
following letter testify to the pains and care which he bestowed on this momentous step. 

Her Page comes on and hands him a letter, which he opens triumphantly.

"A rendezvous, eh? Never knew jewellery fail yet!

How I am carrying on, to be sure!" says his face.

But, as he reads, his eyes begin to roll, and he has another attack
of swelling.

Then the curtains at the back are withdrawn again, and on the top of the steps, where the stuffed
lambs were, he sees Louise de Lavallière in a nun's robe, entering a Convent. Louis can't believe
it; he thinks it must be part of the performance, though not on the original programme. As he
goes nearer to see, the curtains close, open again-- and there is
nothing.

And the baffled monarch realises the melancholy truth-- Louise has gone into a nunnery, without
even returning the "bracelet of great value"!

As I know this proposal to be as fair as one man could make to another in a like situation,
and in order to prevent unpleasant altercation or unnecessary discussion, I declare it to be
the last with which I intend to trouble you.

I take this opportunity of saying that, however much we may differ upon matters of business,
I most sincerely wish you well.

JOHN MURRAY.

In the end they agreed to draw lots for the house, and Murray had the good fortune to remain
at No. 32, Fleet Street. Mr. Highley removed to No. 24 in the same street, and took with him,
by agreement, the principal part of the medical works of the firm. Mr. Murray now started on
his own account, and began a career of publication almost unrivalled in the history of letters.

Before the dissolution of partnership, Mr. Murray had seen the first representation of Column's
Comedy of "John Bull" at Covent Garden Theatre, and was so fascinated by its "union of wit,
sentiment, and humour," that the day after its representation he wrote to Mr. Colman, and offered
him £300 for the copyright. No doubt Mr. Highley would have thought this a rash proceeding.

John Murray to Mr. Colman.

"The truth is that during my minority I have been shackled to a drone of a partner; but the
day of emancipation is at hand. On the twenty-fifth of this month [March 1803] I plunge alone
into the depths of literary speculation. I am therefore honestly ambitious that my first appearance
before the public should be such as will at once stamp my character and respectability. On
this account, therefore, I think that your Play would be more advantageous to me than to any
other bookseller; and as 'I am not covetous of Gold,' I should hope that no trifling consideration
will be allowed to prevent my having the honour of being Mr. Colman's publisher. You see, sir,
that I am endeavouring to interest your feelings, both as a Poet and as a Man."

Mr. Colman replied in a pleasant letter, thanking Mr. Murray for his liberal offer. The copyright,
however, had been sold to the proprietor of the theatre, and Mr. Murray was disappointed in
this, his first independent venture in business.

The times were very bad. Money was difficult to be had on any terms, and Mr. Murray had a hard
task to call in the money due to Murray & Highley, as well as to collect the sums due to himself.

Mr. Joseph Hume, not yet the scrupulous financier which he grew to be, among others, was not
very prompt in settling his accounts; and Mr. Murray wrote to him, on July 11, 1804:

"On the other side is a list of books (amount £92 8s. 6d.), containing all those for which
you did me the favour to write: and I trust that they will reach you safely.... If in future
you could so arrange that my account should be paid by some house in town within six months
after the goods are shipped, I shall be perfectly satisfied, and shall execute your orders
with much more despatch and pleasure. I mention this, not from any apprehension of not being
paid, but because my circumstances will not permit me to give so large an extent of credit.
It affords me great pleasure to hear of your advancement; and I trust that your health will
enable you to enjoy all the success to which your talents entitle you."

He was, for the same reason, under the necessity of declining to publish several new works
offered to him, especially those dealing with medical and poetical subjects.

Mr. Archibald Constable of Edinburgh, and Messrs. Bell & Bradfute, Mr. Murray's agents in Edinburgh,
were also communicated with as to the settlement of their accounts with Murray & Highley. "I
expected," he said, "to have been able to pay my respects to you both this summer [1803], but
my military duties, and the serious aspect of the times, oblige me to remain at home." It was
the time of a patriotic volunteer movement, and Mr. Murray was enrolled as an ensign in the
3rd Regiment of Royal London Volunteers.

It cannot now be ascertained what was the origin of the acquaintance between the D'Israeli
and Murray families, but it was of old standing. The first John Murray published the first
volumes of Isaac D'Israeli's "Curiosities of Literature" (1791), and though no correspondence
between them has been preserved, we find frequent mention of the founder of the house in Isaac
D'Israeli's letters to John Murray the Second. His experiences are held up for his son's guidance,
as for example, when Isaac, urging the young publisher to support some petition to the East
India Company, writes, "It was a ground your father trod, and I suppose that connection cannot
do you any harm"; or again, when dissuading him from undertaking some work submitted to him,
"You can mention to Mr. Harley the fate of Professor Musaeus' 'Popular Tales,' which never
sold, and how much your father was disappointed." On another occasion we find D'Israeli, in
1809, inviting his publisher to pay a visit to a yet older generation, "to my father, who will
be very glad to see you at Margate."

Besides the "Curiosities of Literature," and "Flim-Flams," the last a volume not mentioned
by Lord Beaconsfield in the "Life" of his father prefixed to the 1865 edition of the "Curiosities
of Literature," Mr. D'Israeli published through Murray, in 1803, a small volume of "Narrative
Poems" in 4to. They consisted of "An Ode to his Favourite Critic"; "The Carder and the Currier,
a Story of Amorous Florence"; "Cominge, a Story of La Trappe"; and "A Tale addressed to a Sybarite."
The verses in these poems run smoothly, but they contain no wit, no poetry, nor even any story.
They were never reprinted.

The following letter is of especial interest, as fixing the date of an event which has given
rise to much discussion--the birth of Benjamin Disraeli. 

Little remains of this monastery which stood on the south side and
not far from the city.

The Order settled in Coventry in 1381 only ten years after the foundation of the London Charter-house.
At the Dissolution the Prior and brethren, ten in all, did not emulate
the heroism of the London monks and were fortunate enough to obtain
pensions instead of martyrdom.

Some trifling remains exist incorporated in a modern mansion, and
a wall of the garden shows the position of doors which led to the
isolated cells of the monks.

I. D'I.

Some extracts from their correspondence will afford an insight into the nature of the friendship
and business relations which existed between Isaac D'Israeli and his young publisher as well
as into the characters of the two men themselves.

From a letter dated Brighton, August 5, 1805, from Mr. D'Israeli to John Murray:

"Your letter is one of the repeated specimens I have seen of your happy art of giving interest
even to commonplace correspondence, and I, who am so feelingly alive to the 'pains and penalties'
of postage, must acknowledge that such letters, ten times repeated, would please me as often.

We should have been very happy to see you here, provided it occasioned no intermission in your
more serious occupations, and could have added to your amusements.

With respect to the projected 'Institute,' [Footnote: This was a work at one time projected
by Mr. Murray, but other more pressing literary arrangements prevented the scheme being carried
into effect.] if that title be English--doubtless the times are highly favourable to patronize
a work skilfully executed, whose periodical pages would be at once useful information, and
delightful for elegant composition, embellished by plates, such as have never yet been given,
both for their subjects and their execution. Literature is a perpetual source opened to us;
but the Fine Arts present an unploughed field, and an originality of character ... But Money,
Money must not be spared in respect to rich, beautiful, and interesting Engravings. On this
I have something to communicate. Encourage Dagley, [Footnote: The engraver of the frontispiece
of "Flim-Flams."] whose busts of Seneca and Scarron are pleasingly executed; but you will also
want artists of name. I have a friend, extremely attached to literature and the fine arts,
a gentleman of opulent fortune; by what passed with him in conversation, I have reason to believe
that he would be ready to assist by money to a considerable extent. Would that suit you? How
would you arrange with him? Would you like to divide your work in Shares? He is an intimate
friend of West's, and himself too an ingenious writer.

How came you to advertise 'Domestic Anecdotes'? Kearsley printed 1,250 copies. I desire that
no notice of the authors of that work may be known from your side.

       *       *       *       *       *

At this moment I receive your packet of poems, and Shee's letter. I perceive that he is impressed
by your attentions and your ability. It will always afford me one of my best pleasures to forward
your views; I claim no merit from this, but my discernment in discovering your talents, which,
under the genius of Prudence (the best of all Genii for human affairs), must inevitably reach
the goal. The literary productions of I.D['Israeli] and others may not augment the profits
o£ your trade in any considerable degree; but to get the talents of such writers at your command
is a prime object, and others will follow.

I had various conversations with Phillips [Footnote: Sir Richard Phillips, bookseller. This
is the publisher whose book on philosophy George Borrow was set to translate into German, and
who recommended him to produce something in the style of "The Dairyman's Daughter"!] here;
he is equally active, but more wise. He owns his belles-lettres books have given no great profits;
in my opinion he must have lost even by some. But he makes a fortune by juvenile and useful
compilations. You know I always told you he wanted literary taste--like an atheist, who is
usually a disappointed man, he thinks all belles lettres are nonsense, and denies the existence
of taste; but it exists! and I flatter myself you will profit under that divinity. I have much
to say on this subject and on him when we meet.

At length I have got through your poetry: it has been a weary task! The writer has a good deal
of fire, but it is rarely a very bright flame. Here and there we see it just blaze, and then
sink into mediocrity. He is too redundant and tiresome.... 'Tis a great disadvantage to read
them in MS., as one cannot readily turn to passages; but life is too short to be peeping into
other peoples' MSS. I prefer your prose to your verse. Let me know if you receive it safely,
and pray give no notion to any one that I have seen the MS."

Mr. D'Israeli to John Murray.

"It is a most disagreeable office to give opinions on MSS.; one reads them at a moment when
one has other things in one's head--then one is obliged to fatigue the brain with thinking;
but if I can occasionally hinder you from publishing nugatory works, I do not grudge the pains. When
they came in for supper, the drifts had piled against the house until
they covered the lower sashes of the kitchen windows, and as they
opened the door, a frail wall of snow fell in behind them.

Mahailey came running with her broom and pail to sweep it up.

I am delighted by your apology for not having called on me after I had taken my leave of you
the day before; but you can make an unnecessary apology as agreeable as any other act of kindness....

You are sanguine in your hope of a good sale of "Curiosities," it will afford us a mutual gratification;
but when you consider it is not a new work, though considerably improved I confess, and that
those kinds of works cannot boast of so much novelty as they did about ten years ago, I am
somewhat more moderate in my hopes.

What you tell me of F.F. from Symond's, is new to me. I sometimes throw out in the shop remote
hints about the sale of books, all the while meaning only mine; but they have no skill in construing
the timid wishes of a modest author; they are not aware of his suppressed sighs, nor see the
blushes of hope and fear tingling his cheek; they are provokingly silent, and petrify the imagination....

Believe me, with the truest regard,

Yours ever,

I. D'ISRAELI.

Mr. D'Israeli to John Murray. Saturday, May 31, 1806. KING'S ROAD.

MY DEAR FRIEND,

It is my wish to see you for five minutes this day, but as you must be much engaged, and I
am likely to be prevented reaching you this morning, I shall only trouble you with a line.

Most warmly I must impress on your mind the necessity of taking the advice of a physician.
Who? You know many. We have heard extraordinary accounts of Dr. Baillie, and that (what is
more extraordinary) he is not mercenary....

I have written this to impress on your mind this point. Seeing you as we see you, and your
friend at a fault, how to decide, and you without some relative or domestic friend about you,
gives Mrs. D'I. and myself very serious concerns--for you know we do take the warmest interest
in your welfare--and your talents and industry want nothing but health to make you yet what
it has always been one of my most gratifying hopes to conceive of you.

Yours very affectionately,

I. D'ISRAELI.

