  He would almost have spoken at that instant;
the next he sickened at the thought.  Never, never--he could not, would not; better not live
at all than be a traitor!  He was too confused and anxious to pray, for he had not taught himself
to fix his attention in quiet moments.  He would not speak before the rebel soldier; but only
looked with an earnest gaze at his sister, who, as their eyes met, understood all it conveyed.

His mother, after the first moment's fright, had reassured herself somewhat on his account;
he was so mere a boy that it was not likely that Algernon Sydney, who then commanded at Chichester,
would put him to death; a short imprisonment was the worst that was likely to befall him; and
though that was enough to fill her with terror and anxiety, it could at that moment be scarcely
regarded in comparison with her fears for her eldest son.

A long time passed away, so long, that they began to hope that the enemies might be baffled
in their search, in spite of Diggory's intimate knowledge of every nook and corner.  They had
been once to the shrubbery, and had been heard tramping back to the stable, where they were
welcome to search as long as they chose, then to the barn- yard, all over the house from garret
to cellar.  Was it over?  Joy! joy!  But the feet were heard turning back to the pleasance,
as though to recommence the search, and ten minutes after the steps came nearer.  The rebel
officer entered the hall first, but, alas! behind him came, guarded by two soldiers, Edmund
Woodley himself, his step firm, his head erect, and his hands unbound.  His mother sank back
in her chair, and he, going straight up to her, knelt on one knee before her, saying, "Mother,
dear mother, your blessing.  Let me see your face again."

She threw her arms round his neck, "My son! and is it thus we meet?"

"We only meet as we parted," he answered firmly and cheerfully. "Still sufferers in the same
good cause; still, I trust, with the same willing hearts."

"Come, sir," said the officer, "I must see you safely bestowed for the night."

"One moment, gentlemen," entreated Lady Woodley. She had been for the service from William Cobbett,
a distant writer, who lived in some years at Botley, a village the few miles are political of
Itchen. When i was rather a male, a retainer shack of us of the name
of Anne Stacey.  See, Rose, how brown he is, and how much darker his hair has
grown; and does not his moustache make him just like your father?"

"And my little sisters," said Edmund.  "Ha!  Lucy, I know your little round face."

"Oh," sobbed Lucy, "is it my fault?  Can you pardon me?  The pigeon pie!"

"What does she mean?" asked Edmund, turning to Rose.

"I saw you take it out at night, Rose," said poor Lucy.  "I told Deb!"

"And poor Deborah," added Rose, "from the same thoughtlessness repeated her chatter to Diggory,
who has betrayed us."

"The cowardly villain," cried Walter, who had come forward to the group round his brother.

"Hush, Walter," said Edmund.  "But what do I see?  Your hands bound? You a prisoner?"

"Poor Walter was rash enough to attempt resistance," said his mother.

"So, sir," said Edmund, turning to the rebel captain, "you attach great importance to the struggles
of a boy of thirteen!"

"A blow with the butt-end of a fishing-rod is no joke from boy or man," answered the officer.

"When last I served in England," continued the cavalier, "Cromwell's Ironsides did not take
notice of children with fishing-rods.  You can have no warrant, no order, or whatever you pretend
to act by, against him."

"Why--no, sir; but--however, the young gentleman has had a lesson, and I do not care if I do
loose his hands.  Here, unfasten him.  But I cannot permit him to be at large while you are
in the house."

