But through it all, the shadows deepened, and a fixed conviction that he was moving towards
catastrophe. In spite of Watson's touching words to him, he did not often let himself think
of Phoebe. Towards her, as towards so much else, his mind and heart were stiffened and voiceless.
But for hours in the night--since sleeplessness was now added to his other torments--he would
brood on the loss of his child, would try to imagine her dancing, singing, sewing--or helping
her mother in the house. Seventeen! Why, soon no doubt they would be marrying her, and he,
her father, would know nothing, hear nothing. And in the darkness he would feel the warm tears
rise in his eyes, and hold them there, proudly arrested.

The rehearsals in which he spent many hours of the week, generally added to his distress and
irritation. The play itself was, in his opinion, a poor vulgar thing, utterly unworthy of the
'spectacle' he had contrived for it. He could not hide his contempt for the piece, and indeed
for most of its players; and was naturally unpopular with the management and the company. Moreover,
he wanted his money desperately, seeing that the play had been postponed, first from November
to February, and then from February to April; but the actor-manager concerned was in somewhat
dire straits himself, and nothing could be got before production.

One afternoon, late in March, a rehearsal was nearing its completion, everybody was tired out,
and everything had been going badly. One of Fenwick's most beautiful scenes--carefully studied
from the Trianon gardens on the spot--had been, in his opinion, hopelessly spoilt in order
to bring in some ridiculous 'business' wholly incongruous with the setting and date of the
play. He had had a fierce altercation on the stage with the actor-manager. The cast, meanwhile,
dispersed at the back of the stage or in the wings, looked on maliciously or chatted among
themselves; while every now and then one or other of the antagonists would call up the leading
lady, or the conceited gentleman who was to act Count Fersen, and hotly put a case. Fenwick
was madly conscious all the time of his lessened consideration and dignity in the eyes of a
band of people whom he despised. Two years before, his cooperation would have been an honour
and his opinion law. Now, nothing of the kind; indeed, through the heated remarks of the actor-manager
there ran the insolent implication that Mr. Fenwick's wrath was of no particular account to
anybody, and that he was presuming on a commission he had been very lucky to get.

At last a crowd of stage-hands, setting scenery for another piece in the evening, invaded the
stage, and the rehearsal was just breaking up when Fenwick, still talking in flushed exasperation,
happened to notice two ladies standing in the wings, on the other side of the vast stage, close
to the stage-entrance.

He suddenly stopped talking--stammered--looked again. They were two girls, one evidently a
good deal older than the other. The elder was talking with the assistant stage-manager. The
younger stood quietly, a few yards away, not talking to any one. Her eyes were on Fenwick,
and her young, slightly frowning face wore an expression of amusement--of something besides,
also--something puzzled and intent. It flashed upon him that she had been there for some time,
that he had been vaguely conscious of her--that she had, in fact, been watching from a distance
the angry scene in which he had been engaged.

'Why!--whatever is the matter, Mr. Fenwick?' said the actor beside him, startled by his look.

Fenwick made no answer, but he dropped a roll of papers he was holding and suddenly rushed
forward across the stage, through the throng of carpenters and scene-shifters who were at work
upon it. Some garden steps and a fountain just being drawn into position came in his way; he
stumbled and fell, was conscious of two or three men coming to his assistance, rose again,
and ran on, blindly, pushing at the groups in his way, till he ran into the arms of the stage-manager.

'Who were those ladies?--where are they?' he said, panting, and looking round him in despair;
for they had vanished, and the stage-entrance was blocked by an outgoing stream of people.

'Don't know anything about them,' said the man, sulkily. Fenwick had been the plague of his
life in rehearsals. 'What?--you mean those two girls? Never saw 'em before.'

'But you must know who they are--you must!' shouted Fenwick. 'What's their name? Why did you
let them go?'

'Because I had finished with them.'

The manager turned on his heel, and was about to give an order to a workman, when Fenwick caught
him by the arm.

'I implore you,' he said, in a shaking voice, his face crimson--'tell me who they are--and
where they went.'

The man looked at him astonished, but something in the artist's face made him speak more considerately.

'I am extremely sorry, Mr. Fenwick, but I really know nothing about them. Oh, by the way'--he
fumbled in his pocket. 'Yes--one of them did give me a card--I forgot--I never saw the name
before.' He extracted it with difficulty and handed it to Fenwick, who stood trembling from
head to foot.

Fenwick looked at it.

'Miss Larose.' Nothing else. No address.

'But the other one!--the other one!' he said, beside himself.

'I never spoke to her at all,' said his companion, whose name was Fison. 'They came in here
twenty minutes ago and asked to see me. The door-keeper told them the rehearsal was just over
and they would find me on the stage. The lady I was talking to wished to know whether we had
all the people we wanted for the ballroom scene. Some friend with whom she had been acting
in the country had advised her to apply--'

'Acting where?' said Fenwick, still gripping him.

The stage-manager rubbed his nose in perplexity.

'I really can't remember. Leeds--Newcastle--Halifax--was it? It's altogether escaped my memory.'

'For God's sake, remember!' cried Fenwick.

The stage-manager shook his head.

'I really didn't take notice. I liked the young lady very well. We got on, as you may say,
at once. I talked to her while you were discussing over there. But I had to tell her there
was no room for her--and no more there is. Her sister--or her friend--whichever it was--was
an uncommonly pretty girl. I noticed that as she went out--which reminds me--she asked me to
tell her who you were.'

Fenwick gazed at the speaker in passionate despair.

'And you can't tell me any more--can't help me?' His voice rose again into a shout, then failed
him.

'No, I really can't,' said the other, decidedly, pulling himself away. 'You go and ask the
door-keeper. Perhaps he'll know something.'

But the door-keeper knew only that he had been asked for 'Mr. Fison' by two nice-spoken young
ladies, that he had directed them where to go, and had opened the stage-door for them. He hadn't
happened to be in his 'lodge' when they went out, and couldn't say in which direction they
had gone.

'Why, lor' bless you, sir, they come here in scores every week!'

Fenwick rushed out into the Strand, and walked from end to end of the theatrical section of
it several times, questioning the policemen on duty. But he could discover nothing.

Then, blindly, he made his way down a narrow street to the Embankment. There he threw himself
on a bench, almost fainting, unable to stand.

What should he do? He was absolutely convinced that he had seen Carrie--his child; his little
Carrie!--his own flesh and blood. It was her face--her eyes--her movement--changed, indeed,
but perfectly to be recognised by him, her father. And by the cruel, the monstrous accidents
of the meeting, she had been swept away from him again into this whirlpool of London, before
he had had the smallest chance of grasping at the little form as it floated past him on this
aimless stream of things. His whole nature was in surging revolt against life--against men's
senseless theories of God and Providence. If it should prove that he had lost all clue again
to his wife and child, he would put an end, once for all, to his share in the business--he
swore, with clenched hands, that he would. The Great Potter had made sport of him long enough;
it was time to break the cup and toss its fragments back into the vast common heap of ruined
and wasted things. 'Some to honour--and some to dishonour'--the words rang in his ears, mingling
with that deep bell of St. Paul's, whereof the echoes were being carried up the river towards
him on the light southeasterly wind.

But first--he tried to make his mind follow out the natural implications and consequences of
what had happened. Carrie had asked his name. But clearly, when it was given her, it had meant
nothing to her. She could not have left her father there--knowing it was her father--without
a word. No; Phoebe's first step, of course, would have been to drop her old name, and the child
would have no knowledge of it.

But Phoebe? If Carrie was in England, so was Phoebe. He could not believe that she would part
with the child. And supposing Carrie spoke of the prating, haranguing fellow she had seen?--mentioned
the name, which the stage-manager had given her?--what then? Could Phoebe still have the cruelty,
the wickedness to maintain her course of action--to keep Carrie from him? Ah! if he had been
guilty towards her in the old days, she had wrung out full payment long ago; the balance of
injury had long since dropped heavily on his side. But who could know how she had developed?--whether
towards hardness or towards repentance. Still--to-night, probably--she would hear what and
whom Carrie had seen. Any post might bring the fruits of it. And if not--he was not without
a clue. If a girl whose name is known has been playing recently at an English provincial theatre,
it ought to be possible somehow to recover news of her. He looked at his watch. Too late for
the lawyers. But he roused himself, hailed a cab, and went to his club, where he wrote at length
to his solicitor, describing what had happened, and suggesting various lines of action.

Then he went home, got some charcoal and paper and by lamp-light began to draw the face which
he had seen--a very young and still plastic face, with delicate lips open above the small teeth;
and eyes--why, they were Phoebe's eyes, of course!--no other eyes like them in the world. He
drew them with an eager hand, knowing the way of them. He put the light--the smile--into them;
a happy smile!--as of one to whom life has been kind. No sign of fear, distress, or cringing
poverty--rather an innocent sovereignty, lovely and unashamed. Then the brow, and the curly
hair in its brown profusion; and the small neck; and the thin, straight shoulders. He drew
in the curve of the shady hat--the knot of lace at the throat--the spare young lines of the breast.

So it emerged; and when it was done, he put it on an easel and sat staring at it, his eyes
blind with tears.

Yes, it was Carrie--he had no doubt whatever that it was Carrie. And behind her, mingling with
her image--yet distinct--a veiled, intangible presence, stood Phoebe--Phoebe so like her, and
yet so different. But of Phoebe--still--he would not think. It was as when a man, mortally
tired, shrinks from some fierce contest of brain and limb, which yet he knows may some day
have to be faced. He put his wife aside, and sank himself in the covetous, devouring vision
of his child.

Next day there was great activity among the lawyers. They were confident of recovering the
clue, and if Fenwick's identification was a just one, the search was near its end.

Only, till they really were on the track, better say nothing to Lord Findon and Madame de Pastourelles.
This was the suggestion of the Findon's solicitor, and Fenwick eagerly endorsed it.

Presently inquiry had been made from every management in London as to the touring companies
of the year; confidential agents had been sent to every provincial town that possessed a theatre;
long lists of names had been compiled and carefully scanned. Fenwick's drawing of the girl
whom he had seen had been photographed; and some old likenesses of Phoebe and Carrie had been
reproduced and attached to it, for the use of Messrs. Butlin's provincial correspondents. The
police were appealed to; the best private detectives to be had were employed.

In vain! The smiling child of seventeen had emerged for that one appearance on the stage of
her father's life, only, it seemed, to vanish again for ever. No trace could be found anywhere
of a 'Miss Larose,' either as a true or a theatrical name; the photographs suggested nothing
to those who saw them; or if various hints and clues sometimes seemed to present themselves,
they led to no result.

Meanwhile, day after day, Fenwick waited on the post, hurrying for and scanning his letters
with feverish, ever-waning hope. Not a sign, not a word from Phoebe. His heart grew fierce.
There were moments when he felt something not unlike hatred for this invisible woman, who was
still able to lay a ghostly and sinister hand upon his life. And yet, and yet!--suppose, after
all, that she were dead?

During these same weeks of torment The Queen's Necklace was produced; it was a pretentious
failure, and after three weeks of difficult existence flickered to an end. The management went
into bankruptcy, and the greater part of Fenwick's payment was irrecoverable. He could hardly
now meet his daily living expenses, and there was an execution in his house, put in by the
last firm of builders employed.

Close upon this disaster came the opening of his private exhibition. Grimly, in a kind of dogged
abstraction, he went through with it. He himself, with the help of a lad who was his man-of-all-work
in Chelsea, nailed up the draperies, hung the pictures, and issued the invitations for the
private view.

About a hundred people came to the private view. His reputation was not yet dead, and there
was much curiosity about his circumstances. But Fenwick, looking at the scanty crowd, considering
the faces that were there and the faces that were not there, knew very well that it could be
of no practical assistance to him. Not a picture sold; and next day there were altogether seven
people in the gallery, of whom five were the relations of men to whom he had given gratuitous
teaching at one period or other of his career.

And never, alack, in the case of any artist of talent, was there a worse 'press' than that
which dealt with his pictures on the following morning. The most venomous article of all was
the work of a man whom Fenwick had treated with conceit and rudeness in the days of his success.
The victim now avenged himself, with the same glee which a literary club throws into the black-balling
of some evil tongue--some too harsh and too powerful critic of the moment. 'Scamped and empty
work,' in which 'ideas not worth stating' find an expression 'not worth criticism.' Mannerisms
grown to absurdity; faults of early training writ dismally large; vulgarity of conception and
carelessness of execution--no stone that could hurt or sting was left unflung, and the note
of meditative pity in which the article came to an end, marked the climax of a very neat revenge.
After reading it, Fenwick felt himself artistically dead and buried.

A great silence fell upon him. He spoke to no one in the gallery, and he avoided his club.
Early in the afternoon he went to Lincoln's Inn Fields--only to hear from the lawyers that
they had done all they could with the new scent, and it was no use pursuing it further. He
heard what they had to say in silence, and after leaving their office he visited a shop in
the Strand. Just as the light was waning, about seven o'clock on a May evening, he found himself
again in his studio. It was now absolutely bare, save for a few empty easels, a chair or two,
and some tattered portfolios. The two men representing the execution were in the dining-room.
He could hear the voices of a charwoman and of the lad who had helped him to arrange the gallery,
talking in the kitchen.

Fenwick locked himself into the studio. On his way thither he had recoiled, shivering, from
the empty desolation of the house. In the general disarray of the ticketed furniture and stripped
walls, all artistic charm had disappeared. And he said to himself, with a grim twist of the
mouth, that if the house had grown ugly and commonplace, that only made it a better setting
for the ugly and commonplace thing which he was about to do.

       *       *       *       *       *

About half an hour later a boy, looking like the 'buttons' of a lodging-house, walked up to
the side entrance of Fenwick's ambitious mansion--which possessed a kind of courtyard, and
was built round two sides of an oblong. The door was open and the charwoman just inside, so
that the boy had no occasion to ring. He carried a parcel carefully wrapped in an old shawl.

'Is this Mr. Fenwick's?' asked the boy, consulting a dirty scrap of paper.

'Aye,' said the woman. 'Well, who's it from? isn't there no note with it?'

The boy replied that there was no note, and his instructions were to leave it.

'But what name am I to say?' the woman called after him as he went down the path.

The boy shook his head.

'Don't know--give it up!' he said, impudently, and went off whistling.

'Silly lout,' said the woman, crossly, and, taking up the package, which was not very large,
she went with it to the studio, reflecting as she went that by the feel of it it was an unframed
picture, and that if some one would only take away some of the beastly, dusty things that were
already in the house--that wouldn't, so the bailiffs said, fetch a halfpenny--it would be better
worth while than bringing new ones where they weren't wanted.

There was at first no answer to her knock. She tried the door, and wondered to find it locked.
But presently she heard Fenwick moving about inside.

'Well, what is it?'

His voice was low and impatient.

'A parcel for you, sir.'

'Take it away.'

'Very well, sir.'

She turned obediently and was halfway down the passage which led to the dining-room, when the
studio door opened with a great crash and Fenwick looked out.

'Bring that here. What is it?'

She retraced her steps.

'Well, it's a picture, I think, sir.'

He held out his hand for it, took it, and instantly withdrew into the studio and again locked
the door. She noticed that he seemed to have lit one candle in the big studio, and his manner
struck her as strange. But her slow mind followed the matter no further, and she went back
to the cooking of his slender supper.

Fenwick meanwhile was standing with the parcel in his hand. At the woman's knock he had risen
from a table, where he had been writing a letter. A black object, half-covered with a painting-rag,
lay beside the ink-stand.

'I must make haste,' he thought, 'or she will be bothering me again.'

He looked at the letter, which was still unfinished. Meanwhile he had absently deposited the
parcel on the floor, where it rested against the leg of the table.

'Another page will finish it. Hôtel Bristol, Rome--till the end of the week?--if I only could
be sure that was what Butlin said!'

He paced up and down, frowning, in an impotent distress, trying to make his brain work as usual.
On his visit of the afternoon he had asked the lawyers for the Findon's address; but his memory
now was of the worst.

Suddenly he wheeled round, sat down, and took up a book which had been lying face downwards
on the table. It was the 'Memoirs of Benjamin Haydon,' and he opened it at one of the last pages--

'About an hour after, Miss Haydon entered the painting-room, and found her father stretched
out dead, before the easel on which stood, blood-sprinkled, his unfinished picture. A portrait
of his wife stood on a smaller easel facing his large picture.'

       *       *       *       *       *

The man reading, paused.

'He had suffered much more than I,' he thought--'but his wife had helped him--stood by him--'

And he passed on to the next page--to the clause in Haydon's will which runs--'My dearest wife,
Mary Haydon, has been a good, dear, and affectionate wife to me--a heroine in adversity and
an angel in peace.'

'And he repaid her by blowing his brains out,' thought Fenwick, contemptuously. 'But he was
mad--of course he was mad. We are all mad--when it comes to this.'

And he turned back, as though in fascination, to the page before, to the last entry in Haydon's
Journal.

  '21st.--Slept horribly. Prayed in sorrow and got
  up in agitation.
  '22d.--God forgive me. Amen.'

'Amen!' repeated Fenwick, aloud, as he dropped the book. The word echoed in the empty room.
He covered his eyes with his right hand, leaning his arm on the table.

The other hand, as it fell beside him, came in contact with the parcel which was propped against
the table. His touch told him that it contained a picture--an unframed canvas. A vague curiosity
awoke in him. He took it up, peered at the address, then began to finger with and unwrap it.

Suddenly--he bent over it. What was it!

He tore off the shawl, and some brown paper beneath it, lifted the thing upon the table, so
that the light of the one candle fell upon it, and held it there.

Slowly his face, which had been deeply flushed before, lost all its colour; his jaw dropped
a little.

He was staring at the picture of himself which he had painted for Phoebe in the parlour of
the Green Nab Cottage thirteen years before. The young face, in its handsome and arrogant vigour,
the gypsy-black hair and eyes, the powerful shoulders in the blue serge coat, the sunburnt
neck exposed by the loose, turn-down collar above the greenish tie--there they were, as he
had painted them, lying once more under his hand. The flickering light of the candle showed
him his signature and the date.

He laid it down and drew a long breath. Thrusting his hands into his pockets, he stood staring
at it, his brain, under the sharp stimulus, beginning to work more clearly. So Phoebe, too,
was alive--and in England. The picture was her token. That was what it meant.

He went heavily to the door, unlocked it, and called. The charwoman appeared.

'Who brought this parcel?'

'A boy, sir.'

'Where's the note?--he must have brought something with it.'

'No, he didn't, sir--there was no note.'

'Don't be absurd!' cried Fenwick. 'There must have been.'

Mrs. Flint, outraged, protested that she knew what she was a-saying of. He questioned her fiercely,
but there was nothing to be got out of her rigmarole account, which Fenwick cut short by retreating
into the studio in the middle of it.

This fresh check unhinged him altogether--seemed to make a mere fool of him--the sport of gods
and men. There he paced up and down in a mad excitement. What in the Devil's name was the meaning
of it? The picture came from Phoebe--no one else. But it seemed she had only sent it to him
to torment him to punish him yet more? Women were the cruellest of God's creatures. And as
for himself--idiot!--if he had only finished his business an hour ago, both she and he would
have been released by this time. He worked himself up into a wild passion of rage, stopping
every now and then to look at that ghost of his youth, which lay on the table, propped up against
some books--and once at the reflexion of his haggard face and grey hair as he passed in front
of an old mirror on the wall.

Then suddenly the tension gave way. He sank on the chair beside the table, hiding his face
on his arms in an utter exhaustion, while yet, through the physical weakness, something swept
and vibrated, which was in truth the onset of returning life.

As he lay there a cab drove up to the front door, and a lady dressed in black descended from
it. She rang, and Mrs. Flint appeared.

'Is Mr. Fenwick at home?'

'He is, ma'am,' said the woman, hesitating--'but he did say he wasn't to be disturbed.'

'Will you please give him my card and say I wish to see him at once? I have brought him an
important letter.'

Mrs. Flint, wavering between her dread of Fenwick's ill-humour and the impression produced
upon her by the gentle decision of her visitor, retreated into the house. The lady followed.

'Well, if you'll wait there, ma'am'--the charwoman opened the door of the dismantled sitting-room--'I'll
speak to Mr. Fenwick.'

She shuffled off. Eugénie de Pastourelles threw back her veil. She had arrived only that morning
in London after a night journey, and her face showed deep lines of fatigue. But its beauty
of expression had never been more striking. Animation--joy--spoke in the eyes, quivered in
the lips. She moved restlessly up and down, holding in one hand a parcel of letters. Once she
noticed the room--the furniture ticketed in lots--and paused in concern and pity. But the momentary
cloud was soon chased by the happiness of the thought which held her. Meanwhile Mrs. Flint
knocked at the door of the studio.

'Mr. Fenwick! Sir! There's a lady come, sir, and she wishes to speak to you particular.'

An angry movement inside.

'I'm busy. Send her away.'

'I've got her card here, sir,' said Mrs. Flint, dropping her voice. 'It's a queer name, sir--somethin
furrin--Madam somethin. She says it's most pertickler. I was to tell you she'd only got home
to-day, from abroad.'

A sudden noise inside. The door was opened.

'Where is she? Ask her to come in.'

He himself retreated into the darkness of the studio, clinging, so the charwoman noticed, to
the back of a chair, as though for support. Wondering 'what was up,' she clattered back again
down the long passage which led from the sitting-room to the studio.

But Eugénie had heard the opening door and came to meet her.

'Is anything wrong?' she asked, anxiously. 'Is Mr. Fenwick ill?'

'Well, you see, ma'am,' said Mrs. Flint, cautiously--'it's the Sheriff's horficers--though
they do it as kind as they can.'

Eugénie looked bewildered.

'A hexecution, ma'am,' whispered the woman as she led the way.

'Oh!' It was a cry of distress, checked by the sight of Fenwick, who stood in the door of his
studio.

'I am sorry you were kept waiting,' he said, hoarsely.

She made some commonplace reply, and they shook hands. Mrs. Flint looked at them curiously,
and withdrew again into the back premises.

Fenwick turned and walked in front of Eugénie towards the table from which he had risen. She
looked at him in sudden horror--arrested--the words she had come to speak stifled on her lips.
Then a quick impulse made her shut the door behind her. He turned again, bewildered, and raised
his hand to his head.

'My God!' he said, in a low voice; 'I oughtn't to have let you come in here. Go away--please
go away.'

Then she saw him totter backward, raise an overcoat which hung across the back of a chair,
and throw it over something lying on the table. Terror possessed her; his aspect was so ghastly,
his movements so strange. She flew to him, and took his hand in both hers.

'No, no--don't send me away! My friend--my dear friend--listen to me. You look so ill--you've
been in trouble! If I'd only known! But I've thought of you always--I've prayed for you. And
listen--listen!--I've brought you good news.'

She paused, still holding him. Her eyes were bright with tears, but her mouth smiled. He looked
at her, trembling. Her pale charm, her pleading grace moved him unbearably; this beauty, this
tenderness--the sudden apparition of them in this dark room--unmanned him altogether.

But she came nearer.

'We got home only this morning. It was a sudden wish of my father's--he thought Italy wasn't
suiting him. We came straight from Rome. I wrote to you by this morning's post. Then--this
afternoon--after we'd settled my father--I drove to Lincoln's Inn Fields. And I found them
so excited--just sending off a messenger to you. A letter had arrived by the afternoon post,
an hour after you left the office. I have it here--they trusted it to me. Oh, dear Mr. Fenwick,
listen to me! They are on the track--it's a real clue this time! Your wife has been in Canada--they
know where she was three months ago--it's only a question of time now. Oh! and they told me
about the theatre--how wonderful! Oh! I believe they're not far off--know it--I feel it!'

He had fallen on his chair; she stood beside him.

'And you've been ill,' she said, sadly, 'and in great distress, I'm afraid--about money, was
it? Oh, if I'd only known! But you'll let me make that right, won't you?--you couldn't refuse
me that? And think! you'll have them again--your wife--your little girl.'

She smiled at him, while the tears slipped down her cheeks. She cherished his cold hands, holding
them close in her warm, soft palms.

He seemed to be trying to speak. Then suddenly he disengaged himself, rose feebly, went to
the mantelpiece, lit another candle, and brought it, holding it towards something on a chair--beckoning
to her. She went to him--perceived the unframed portrait--and cried out.

'Phoebe sent it me--just now,' he said, almost in a whisper--'without a word--without a single
word. It was left here by a boy--with no letter--no address. Wasn't it cruel?--wasn't it horribly
cruel?'

She watched him in dismay.

'Are you sure there was nothing--no letter?'

He shook his head. She released herself, took up the picture, and examined it. Then she shook
out the folds of the shawl, the fragments of the brown paper, and still found nothing. But
as she took the candle and stooped with it to the floor, something white gleamed. A neatly
folded slip of paper had dropped among some torn letters beneath the table. She held it up
to him with a cry of delight.

He made a movement, then fell back.

'Read it, please,' he said, hoarsely, refusing it. 'There's something wrong with my eyes.'

And he held his hands pressed to them, while she--little reluctantly, wistfully--opened and read:

       *       *       *       *       *

MY DEAR JOHN,--I have Phoebe safe. She can't write. But she sends you this--as her sign. It's
been with her all through. She knows she's been a sinful wife. But there, it's no use writing.
Besides, it makes me cry. But come!--come soon! Your child is an angel. You'll forget and forgive
when you see her.

I brought Phoebe here last week. Do you see the address?--it's the old cottage! I took it with
a friend--three years ago. It seemed the right place for your poor wife--till she could make
up her mind how and when to let you know.

As to how I came to know--we'll tell you all that.

Carrie knows nothing yet. I keep thinking of the first look in her eyes! Come soon!

Ever your affectionate old friend,

ANNA MASON.

There was silence. Eugénie had read the letter in a soft voice that trembled. She looked up.
Fenwick was staring straight before him, and she saw him shudder.

'I know it's horrible,' he said, in a low voice--'and cowardly--but I feel as if I couldn't
face it--I couldn't bear it.'

And he began feebly to pace to and fro, looking like an old, grey-haired man in the dim grotesqueness
of the light. Eugénie understood. She felt, with mingled dread and pity, that she was in the
presence of a weakness which represented far more than the immediate emotion; was the culmination,
indeed, of a long, disintegrating process.

She hesitated--moved--wavered--then took courage again.

'Come and sit down,' she said, gently.

And, going up to him, she took him by the arm and led him back to his chair.

He sank upon it, his eyes hanging on her. She stooped over him.

'Shall I,' she said, uncertainly--'shall I--go first? Oh, I oughtn't to go! Nobody ought to
interfere--between husband and wife. But if you wish it--if I could do any good--'

Her eyes sought the answer of his.

Her face, framed in the folds of her black veil, shone in the candle-light; her voice was humble,
yet brave.

The silence continued a moment. Then his lips moved.

'Be my messenger!' he said, just breathing it.

She made a sign of assent. And he, feebly lifting her hands, brought them to his lips. Close
to them--unseen by her--for the moment unremembered by him--lay the revolver with which he
had meant to take his life--and the letter in which he had bid her a last farewell.

CHAPTER XIII

Great Langdale was once more in spring. After the long quiet of the winter, during which these
remoter valleys of the Lakes resume their primitive and self-dependent life, there were now
a few early tourists in the two Dungeon Ghyll hotels, and the road traffic had begun to revive.
Phoebe Fenwick, waiting and listening for the post in an upper room of Green Nab Cottage, ran
hurriedly to the window several times in vain, drawn by the sound of wheels. The cart which
clattered past was not that which bore Her Majesty's mails.

At the third of these false alarms she lingered beside the open casement window, looking out
into the valley. It was a very weary woman who stood thus--motionless and drooping; a woman
so tired, so conscious of wasted life and happiness, that although expectation held her in
a grip of torture, there was in it little or nothing of hope.

Twelve years since she had last looked on those twin peaks, those bare fields and winding river!
Twelve years! Time, the inexorable, had dealt with her, and not softly. All that rounded grace
which Fenwick had once loved to draw had dropped from her, as the bloom drops from a wild cherry
in the night. Phoebe was now thirty-five--close on thirty-six; and twelve years of hard work,
joyless struggle, and pursuing remorse had left upon her indelible marks. She had grown excessively
thin, and lines of restlessness, of furtive pain and suspicion, had graven themselves, delicately,
irrevocably, about her eyes and mouth, on her broad brow and childish neck. There were hollows
in the cheeks, the cutting of the face seemed to be ruder and the skin browner than of old.
Nevertheless, the leanness of the face was that of energy, not that of emaciation. It pointed
to life in the open air, a strenuous physical life; and, but for the look of fretting, of ceaseless
and troubled longing with which it was associated, it would rather have given beauty than taken
it away.

Her eyes were more astonishing than ever; but there was a touch of wildness in them, and they
were grown, in truth, too big and staring for the dwindled face. A pathetic face!--as of one
in whom the impulse to weep is always present, yet for ever stifled. It had none of that noble
intimacy with sorrow which so often dignifies a woman's whole aspect; it spoke rather of the
painful, struggling, desiring will, the will of passion and regret, the will which fights equally
with the past and with the future, and is, for Buddhist and Christian alike, the torment of
existence.

Again a sound of wheels drew her eyes to the road. But it was only the Hawkshead butcher going
his rounds. He stopped below the cottage, and Miss Anna's servant went out to him. Phoebe sighed
afresh in disappointment, her ears still strained the while to catch the first sound of that
primitive horn, wherewith the postman in his cart, as he mounts the Langdale Valley, summons
the dwellers in the scattered farms and cottages to come and take their letters.

But very likely there would be no letter at all. This was Thursday. On Saturday Miss Anna had
met her and Carrie at Windermere, and had brought them to the old place. Sunday and Monday
had been filled with agitated consultations. Then, on Tuesday, a neighbour living in Elterwater,
and an old friend of Miss Anna's, had gone up to London, bearing with her a parcel addressed
to 'John Fenwick, Constable House, East Road, Chelsea,' which she had promised to deliver,
either personally or through one of the servants of the boarding-house whither she was bound.

This lady must have delivered it on Wednesday--some time on Wednesday--she would not pledge
herself. But probably not till the afternoon or evening. If so, there could be no letter. But
if not a letter, a telegram; unless, indeed, John were determined not to take her back; unless
her return were in his eyes a mere trouble and burden; unless they were to be finally and for
ever separated. Then he would take his time--and write.

But--Carrie! Phoebe resumed her wandering from room to room and window to window, her mind
deafened as it were by the rush of her own thoughts--unable to rest for a moment. He must want
to see Carrie! And that seeing must and should carry with it at least one interview with his
wife, at least the permission to tell her story, face to face.

Was it only a week since, under a sudden impulse, she had written to Miss Anna?--from the Surrey
lodging, where for nearly two months she had hidden herself after their landing in England.
Each day since then had been at once the longest and the shortest she had ever known. Every
emotion of which she was capable had been roused into fresh life, crowding the hours; while
at the same time each day had flown on wings of flame, bringing the moment--so awful, yet so
desired--when she should see John's face again. After the slow years of self-inflicted exile;
after the wavering weeks and months of repentance, doubt, and changing resolution, life had
suddenly become breathless--a hurrying rush down some Avernian descent, towards crashing pain
and tumult. For how could it end well? She was no silly girl to suppose that such things can
be made right again with a few soft words and a kiss.

Idly her mind wandered through the past; through the years of dumb, helpless bitterness, when
she would have given the world to undo what she had done, and could see no way, consistently
with the beliefs which still held her; and through the first hours of sharp reaction, produced
partly by events in her own history and partly by fresh and unexpected information. She had
thought of John as hard, prosperous, and cruel; removed altogether out of her social ken, a
rich and fashionable gentleman who might have and be what he would. The London letter of a
Canadian weekly paper had given her the news of his election to the Academy. Then, from the
same source, she had learnt of the quarrel, the scene with the Hanging Committee, the noisy
resignation, and all the controversy surrounding it. She read and re-read every line of this
scanty news, pondering and worrying over it. How like John, to ruin himself by these tempers!
And yet, of course, he had been abominably treated!--any one could see that. From her anger
and concern sprang new growths of feeling in a softened heart. If she had only been there!

Well!--what did it matter? The great lady who advised and patronised him no doubt had been
there. If she had not been able to smooth out the tangle, what chance would his despised wife
have had with him?

Then--last fall--there had come to the farm in the green Ontario country, a young artist, sent
out on a commission from an English publishing firm who were producing a great illustrated
book on Canada. The son of the house, who was at college in Montreal, had met him, and made
friends with him; had brought him home to draw the farm, and the apple-orchards, heavy with
fruit. And there, night after night, he had sat talking in the rich violet dusk; talking to
this sad-faced Mrs. Wilson, this Englishwoman, who understood his phrases and his ways, and
had been in contact with artists in her youth.

John Fenwick! Why, of course, he knew all about John Fenwick! Quarrelsome, clever chap! Had
gone up like a rocket, and was now nowhere. What call had he to quarrel with the Academy? The
Academy had treated him handsomely enough--much better than it had treated a lot of other fellows.
The public wouldn't stand his airs and his violence. He wasn't big enough. A Whistler might
be insolent, and gain by it; but the smaller men must keep civil tongues in their heads. Oh,
yes, talent of course--enormous talent!--but a poor early training, and a man wants all his
time to get the better of that--instead of spouting and scribbling all over the place. No--John
Fenwick would do nothing more of importance. Mrs. Wilson might take his word for that--sorry
if he had said anything unpleasant of a friend of hers. General report, besides, made him an
unhappy, moody kind of fellow, living alone, with very few friends, taking nobody's advice--and
as obstinate as a pig about his work.

So said this young Daniel-come-to-judgement, between the whiffs of his pipe, in the Canadian
farm-garden, while the darkness came down and hid the face of the silent woman beside him.

And so Remorse, and anguished Pity, sprang up beside her--grey and stern comrades--and she
walked between them night and day. John, a lonely failure in England--poor and despised. And
she, an exile here, with her child. And this dumb, irrevocable Time, on which she had stamped
her will, so easily, so fatally, flowing on the while, year by year, towards Death and the
End!--and these voices of 'Too late!' in her ears!

But still the impulse of return grew--mysteriously it seemed--independently. And other facts
and experiences came strangely to its aid. In the language of Evangelicalism which had been
natural to her youth, Phoebe felt now, as she looked back, that she had been wonderfully 'led.'
It was this sense, indeed, which had softened the humiliation and determined the actual steps
of her homeward pilgrimage; she seemed to have been yielding to an actual external force in
what she had done.

For it had not been easy, this second uprooting. Carrie, especially, had had her own reasons
for making it difficult. And Phoebe had never yet had the courage to tell her the truth. She
had spoken vaguely of 'business' obliging them to take a journey to England--had asked the
child to trust her--and taken refuge in tears and depression from Carrie's objections. In consequence,
she had seen the first shadow descend on Carrie's youth; she had been conscious of the first
breach between herself and her daughter.

In a sudden agony, she walked back to the window in her own room, looking this time, not towards
Elterwater and the post, but towards Dungeon Ghyll and the wild upper valley.

Anna Mason had taken Carrie for a walk. At that moment, on Phoebe's prayer, she was telling
the child the story of her father and mother.

Phoebe's eyes filled. She was, in truth, waiting for judgement--at the hands of her husband--and
her daughter. Ever since their flight together, Carrie had been taught to regard her father
as dead. As the years went on, 'poor papa' was represented to her by a few fading memories,
by the unframed picture which her mother kept jealously locked from sight, which she had been
only once or twice allowed to see.

And now? Phoebe recalled the anguish of that night, when Carrie, returning to her mother in
Surrey, from a day's expedition to town, with a Canadian friend, described the queer, passionate,
grey-haired man--'Mr. Fenwick, they called him'--whom she had seen directing the rehearsal
at the Falcon Theatre. Phoebe had a vision of herself leaning back in her chair, wrapped in
shawls, feigning the exhaustion and blindness of nervous headache--while the child gave her
laughing account of the scene, in the intervals of kissing and comforting 'poor mummy.'

And that drive from Windermere, beside Miss Anna, with Carrie opposite!--Carrie excitable,
happy, talkative--her father's child--now absorbed in a natural delight, exclaiming at the
beauty of the mountains, the trees, the river, catching her mother's hand, to make her smile
too, and then in a sudden shyness and hardness, looking with her deep jealous eyes at the unknown
friend opposite, wondering clearly what it all meant, resenting that she was told so little,
and too proud to insist on more--or, perhaps, afraid to pierce what might turn out to be the
unhappy or shameful secret of their life?

Yet Phoebe had tried to make it plausible. They were going to stay with an old friend, in a
place which Carrie and her parents had lived in when she was a baby, near to the town where
she was born. She knew already that her mother was from Westmoreland, from a place called Keswick;
but she understood that her mother's father was dead, and all her people scattered.

Until they came actually in sight of the cottage, the child had betrayed no memory of her own;
though as they entered Langdale her chatter ceased, and her eyes sped nervously from side to
side, considering the woods and fells and whitewashed farms. As they stopped, however, at the
foot of the steep pitch leading to the little house, Carrie suddenly caught sight of it--the
slate porch, the yew-tree to the right, the sycamore in front. She changed colour, and as she
jumped down, she wavered and nearly fell.

And without waiting for the others she ran up the hill and through the gate. When she met them
again at the house-door, her eyes were wet.

'I've been into the kitchen,' she said, breathlessly--'and it's so strange! I remember sitting
there, and a man'--she drew her hand across her brow--'a man, feeding me. That--that was father?'

Phoebe could not remember how she had answered her; only some trembling words from Anna Mason,
and an attempt to draw the child away--that her mother might enter the cottage alone and unwatched.
And she had entered it alone--had walked into the little parlour.

The next thing she recollected--amid that passion of desperate tears which had seemed to dissolve
her, body and soul--were Carrie's arms round her, Carrie's face pressed against hers.

'Mother! mother! Oh! what is the matter? Why did we come here? You've been keeping things from
me all these weeks--for years even. There is something I don't know--I'm sure there is. Oh,
it is unkind. You think I'm not old enough--but I am. Oh! you ought to tell me, mother!'

How had she defended herself? staved off the inevitable once again? All she knew was that Miss
Anna had again come to the rescue, had taken the child away, whispering to her. And since then,
in these last forty-eight hours--oh! Carrie had been good! So quiet, so useful--unpacking their
clothes, helping Miss Anna's maid with the supper, cooking, dusting, mending, as a Canadian
girl knows how--only stopping sometimes to look round her, with that clouded, wondering look,
as though the past invaded her.

Oh! she was a darling! John would see that--whatever he might feel towards her mother. 'I stole
her--but I've brought her back. I may be a bad wife--but there's Carrie! I've not neglected
her--I've done the best by her.'

It was in incoherent, unspoken words like this that Phoebe was for ever pleading with her husband,
even now.

Presently, in her walk about the room, she came to stand before the mantelpiece, where a photograph
had been propped up against the wall by Carrie--of a white walled farm, with its out-buildings
and orchards--and, gleaming beneath it, the wide waters of Lake Ontario. Phoebe shuddered at
the sight of it. Twelve years of her life had been wasted there.

Carrie, indeed, took a very different view.

Restlessly the mother left her room and wandered into Carrie's. It was already--by half-past
nine--spotlessly clean and neat; and Eliza, the girl from Hawkshead, had not been allowed to
touch it. On the bed lay a fresh 'waist,' which Carrie had just made for herself, and on the
dressing-table stood another photograph--not a place this time, but a person--a very evident
and very good-looking young man!

Phoebe stood looking at it forlornly. Carrie's young romance--and her own spoilt life--these
two images held her. Carrie would go back, in time, across the sea--would marry, would forget
her mother.

'And I'm not old, neither--I'm not old.'

Trembling she left the room. The door of Miss Anna's was open. Phoebe stood on the threshold,
looking in. It had been her room and John's in the old days. Their very furniture was still
there--as in the parlour, too. For John had sold it all to their landlord, when he wound up
affairs. Miss Anna knew even what he had got for it--poor John!

She dared not go in. She stood leaning against the door-post, looking from outside, like one
in exile, at the low-raftered room, with its oak press, and its bed, and its bit of green carpet.
Thoughts passed through her mind--thoughts which shook her from head to foot.

The cottage was now enlarged. Miss Mason, when she took it on lease three years before this
date, had built two new rooms, or got the Hawkshead landlord to build them. She had retired
now, on her savings; and there lived with her an old friend, a tired teacher like herself.
It was one of those spinster marriages--honourable and seemly ménages--for which the Lakes
have always been famous. But Miss Wetherby was now away, visiting her relations in the South.
Had she been there, Phoebe could never have made up her mind to accept Miss Anna's urgent invitation.
She shrank from everybody--strangers, or old acquaintance--it was all one. The terror which
ranked, in her mind, next to the disabling, heart-arresting terror of the first meeting with
her husband, was that of the first moment when she must discover herself to her old acquaintance
in Langdale or Elterwater--in Kendal or Keswick--as Phoebe Fenwick. She had arrived, closely
veiled, as 'Mrs. Wilson,' and she had never yet left the cottage door.

Then again she caught her breath, remembering that at that very moment Carrie was learning
her true name from Miss Anna--was realising that she had seen her father without knowing it--was
hearing the story of what her mother had done.

'Perhaps she'll hate me!' thought Phoebe, miserably. Through the window came the soft spring
air. The big sycamore opposite was nearly in full leaf, and in the field below sprawled the
helpless, new-born lambs, so white beside their dingy mothers. The voice of the river murmured
through the valley, and sometimes, as the west wind blew stronger, Phoebe's fine and long-practised
ear could distinguish other and more distant sounds, wafted from the leaping waterfalls which
threaded the ghyll, perhaps even from the stream of Dungeon Ghyll itself, thundering in its
prison of rocks. It was a characteristic Westmoreland day, with high grey cloud and interlacing
sun, the fells clear from base to top, their green or reddish sides marked with white farms
or bold clumps of fir; with the blackness of scattered yews, landmarks through generations;
or the purple-grey of the emerging limestone. Fresh, lonely, cheerful--a land at once of mountain
solitude, and of a long-settled, long-humanised life--it breathed kindly on this penitent,
anxious woman; it seemed to bid her take courage.

Ah! the sound of a horn echoing along the fell. Phoebe flew down to the porch; then, remembering
she might be seen, perhaps recognised, by the postman, she stepped back into the parlour, listening,
but out of sight.

The servant, who had run down to fetch the letters, seemed to be having something of an argument
with the postman. In a few minutes she reappeared, breathless.

'There's no letters, mum,' she said, seeing Phoebe at the parlour window--'and I doan't think
this has owt to do here.' She held up a telegram, doubtfully--yet with an evident curiosity
and excitement in her look. It was addressed to 'Mrs. John Fenwick.' The postman had clearly
made some remark upon it.

Phoebe took it.

'It's all right. Tell him to leave it.'

The girl, noticing her agitation and her shaking fingers, ran down the hill again to give the
message. Phoebe carried the telegram upstairs to her room, and locked the door.

For some moments she dared not open it. If it said that he refused to come?--that he would
never see her again? Phoebe felt that she should die of grief--that life must stop.

At last she tore it open:

Sending messenger to-day. Hope to follow immediately. Welcome.

She gasped over the words, feeling them in the first instance as a blow--a repulse. She had
feared--but also she had hoped--she scarcely knew for what--yet at least for something more,
something different from this.

He was not coming, then, at once! A messenger! What messenger could a man send to his wife
in such a case? Who knew them both well enough to dare to come between them? Old fiercenesses
woke up in her. Had the word been merely cold and unforgiving it would have crushed her indeed;
but there was that in her which would have scarcely dared complain. An eye for an eye--no conscience-stricken
creature but admits the wild justice of that.

But a 'messenger'!--when she that was lost is found, when a man's wife comes back to him from
the dead! Phoebe sat voiceless, the telegram on her lap, a kind of scorn trembling on her lip.

Then her eye caught the word 'welcome,' and it struck home. She began to sob, her angry pride
melting. And suddenly the door of her room opened, and there on the threshold stood Carrie--Carrie,
who had been crying, too--with wide, startled eyes and flushed cheeks. She looked at her mother,
then flew to her, while Phoebe instinctively covered the telegram with her hand.

'Oh, mother! mother!--how could you? And I laughed at him--I did--I did!' she cried, wringing
her hands. 'And he looked so tired! And on the way home Amélie mimicked him--and his voice--and
his queer ways; and I laughed. Oh, what a beast I was! Oh, mother, and I told you his name,
and you never--never--said a word!'

The child flung herself on the floor, her feet tucked under her, her hands clasped round her
knees, swaying backwards and forwards in a tempest of excited feeling, hardly knowing what
she said.

Phoebe looked at her, bewildered; then she removed her hand, and Carrie saw the telegram. She
threw herself on it, read the address, gulping, then the words:

'A messenger!' She understood that no more than her mother. It meant a letter, perhaps? But
she fastened on 'immediately'--'welcome.'

And presently--all in a moment--she leapt to her feet, and began to dance and spring about
the room. And as Phoebe watched her, startled and open-mouthed, wondering if this was all the
reproach that Carrie was ever going to make her, the flushed and joyous creature came and flung
her arms round Phoebe's neck, so that the fair hair and the brown were all in a confusion together,
and the child's cheek was on her mother's.

'Mummy!--and I was only five, and you weren't so very old--only seven years older than I am
now--and you thought father was tired of you--and you went off to Canada right away. My!--it
was plucky of you--I will say that for you. And if you hadn't gone, I should never have seen
George. But--oh, mummy, mummy!'--this between laughing and crying--'I do guess you were just
a little fool! I guess you were!'

Miss Anna sat downstairs listening to the murmur of those hurrying voices above her in Phoebe's
room. She was darning a tablecloth, with the Manchester paper beside her; and she sat peculiarly
erect, a little stern and pinched,--breathing protest.

It was extraordinary how Carrie had taken it. These were your Canadian ways, she supposed.
No horror of anything--no shyness. Looking a thing straight in the face, at a moment's notice--with
a kind of humorous common sense--refusing altogether to cry over spilt milk, even such spilt
milk as this--in a hurry, simply, to clear it up! A mere metaphorical refusal to cry, this--for,
after all, there had been tears. But the immediate rebound, the determination to be cheerful,
though the heavens fell, had been so amazing! The child had begun to laugh before her tears
were dry--letting loose a flood of sharp, shrewd questions on her companion; wondering, with
sparkling looks, how 'George' would take it; and quite refusing to provide that fine-drawn
or shrinking sentiment, that 'moral sense,' in short, with which, as it seemed to the elder
woman, half-hours of this quality in life should be decently accompanied. Little heathen! Miss
Anna thought grimly of all the precautions she had taken to spare the young lady's feelings--of
her own emotions--her sense of a solemn and epoch-making experience. She might have saved her
pains!

But at this point the door upstairs opened, and the 'little heathen' descended presently to
the parlour, bringing the telegram. She came in shyly, and it might perhaps have been seen
that she was conscious of her disgrace with Miss Anna. But she said nothing; she merely held
out the piece of pink paper; and Miss Anna, surprised out of her own 'moral sense,' fell upon
it, hastily adjusting her spectacles to a large and characteristic nose.

She read it frowning. A messenger! What on earth did they want with such a person? Just like
John!--putting the disagreeables on other people. She said to herself that one saw where the
child's levity came from.

'It's nice of father, isn't it?' said Carrie, rather timidly, touching the telegram.

'He'd better have come himself,' said Miss Anna, sharply.

'But he is coming!' cried Carrie. 'He's only sending a letter--or a present--or something--to
smooth the way--just as George does with me. Well, now then'--she bent down and brought her
resolute little face close to Miss Anna's--'where's he to sleep?'

Miss Anna jumped, pushed back her chair, and said, coldly, 'I'll see to that.'

'Because, if he's going into my room,' said Carrie, thoughtfully, 'something'll have to be
done to lengthen that bed. The pillow slips down, and even I hung my feet out last night. But,
if you'll let me, I could fix it up--I could make that room real nice.'

Miss Anna told her to do what she liked. 'And where'll you sleep to-night, pray?'

'Oh, I'll go in to mother.'

'There's a second bed in my room,' said Miss Anna, stiffly.

'Ah! but that would crowd you up,' said the girl, softly; and off she went.

Presently there was a commotion upstairs--hammering, pulling, pushing.

Miss Anna wondered what on earth she was doing to the bed.

Then, Phoebe came down, white and fluttered enough to satisfy the most exacting canons. Miss
Anna tried not to show that she was dissatisfied with the terms of the telegram, and Phoebe
did not complain. But her despondency was very evident, and Miss Anna was extremely sorry for
her. In her restlessness she presently said that she would go out to the ghyll and sit by the
water a little. If anybody came, they were to shout for her. She would only be a stone's throw
from the house.

She went away along the fell-side, her head drooping--so tall and thin, in her plain dress
of grey Carmelite and her mushroom hat trimmed with black.

Miss Anna looked after her. She knew very little indeed, as yet, of what it was that had really
brought the poor thing home. Her own fault, no doubt. Phoebe would have poured out her soul,
without reserve, on that first night of her return to her old home. But Miss Anna had entirely
refused to allow it. 'No, no!' she had said, even putting her hand on the wife's trembling
lips; 'you shan't tell me. Keep that for John--it's his right. If you've got a confession--it
belongs to John!'

On the other hand, of the original crisis--of the scene in Bernard Street, the spoilt picture,
and the letters of Madame de Pastourelles--Miss Anna had let Phoebe tell her what she pleased;
and in truth--although Phoebe seemed to be no longer of a similar opinion--it appeared to the
ex-schoolmistress that John had a good deal to explain--John and the French lady. If people
are not married, and not relations, they have no reasonable call whatever to write each other
long and interesting letters. In spite of her education and her reading, Miss Anna's standards
in these respects were the small, Puritanical standards of the English country town.

The gate leading to the steep pitch of lane opened and shut. Miss Anna rose hastily and looked out.

A lady in black entered the little garden, walked up to the door, and knocked timidly. Was
this the 'messenger'? Miss Anna hurried into the little hall.

'Is Mrs. Fenwick in?' asked a very musical voice.

'Mrs. Fenwick is sitting a little way off on the fell,' said Miss Anna, advancing. 'But I can
call her directly. What name, please?'

The lady took out her card.

'It's a French name,' she said, with smiling apology, handing it to Miss Anna.

Miss Anna glanced at it, and then at the bearer.

'Kindly step this way,' she said, pointing to the parlour, and holding her grey-capped head
rather impressively high.

Madame de Pastourelles obeyed her, murmuring that she had sent her carriage on to the Dungeon
Ghyll Hôtel, whence it would return for her in an hour.

Eugénie had made her first speech--her first embarrassed explanation. She and Miss Anna sat
on either side of the parlour table, their eyes on each other. Eugénie felt herself ill at
ease under the critical gaze of this handsome, grey-haired woman, with her broad shoulders
and her strong brows. She had left London in hurry and agitation, and was, after all, but very
slenderly informed as to the situation in Langdale. Had she inadvertently said something to
set this formidable-looking person against her and her mission?

On her side Miss Anna surveyed the delicate refinement of her visitor; the black dress so plain,
yet so faultless; the mass of brown hair, which even after a night's railway journey was still
perfectly dressed, no doubt by the maid without whom these fine ladies never venture themselves
abroad; the rings which sparkled on the thin fingers; the single string of pearls, which alone
relieved the severity of the black bodice. She noticed the light, distinguished figure, the
beauty of the small head; and her hostility waxed within her. John's smart friend belonged
to the pampered ones of the earth, and Miss Anna did not intend to be taken in by her, not
for a moment.

'Mr. Fenwick has been terribly overworked,' Eugénie repeated, colouring against her will, 'and
yesterday he was quite broken down by your letter. It seemed too much for him. You will understand,
I'm sure. When a person is so weak, they shrink--don't they?--even from what they most desire.
And so he asked me--to--to come and tell Mrs. Fenwick something about his health, and his circumstances
these last two years--just to prepare the way. There is so much--isn't there?--Mrs. Fenwick
cannot yet know; and I'm afraid--it will pain her to hear.'

The speaker's voice faltered and ceased. She felt through every nerve that she was in a false
position, and wondered how she was to mend it.

'Do I understand you that John Fenwick is coming to see his wife to-night?' said Miss Mason
at last, in a voice of battle.

'He arrives by the afternoon train,' said Eugénie, looking at her questioner with a slight
frown of perplexity.

'What is the matter with him?' said Miss Anna, dryly.

Eugénie hesitated; then she bent forward, the colour rushing again into her cheeks.

'I think'--her voice was low and hurried, and she looked round her to see that the door was
shut and they were really alone--'I think it has been an attack of depression--perhaps--perhaps
melancholia. He has had great misfortunes and disappointments. Unfortunately, my father and
I were abroad, and did not understand. But, thank God!'--she clasped her hands involuntarily--'I
got home yesterday--I went to see him--just in time--'

She paused, looking at her companion as though she asked for the understanding which would
save her further words. But Miss Anna sat puzzled and cold.

'Just in time?' she repeated.

'I didn't understand at first,' said Eugénie, with emotion; 'I only saw that he was ill and
terribly broken. But he has told me since--in a letter I got just before I started. And I want
you to advise me--to tell me whether you think Mrs. Fenwick should know--'

'Know what?' cried Miss Anna.

Madame de Pastourelles bent forward again, and said a few words under her breath.

Anna Mason recoiled.

'Horrible!' she said; 'and--and so cowardly! So like a man!'

Eugénie could not help a tremulous smile; then she resumed:

'The picture had come--just come. It was that which saved him. Ah, yes'--the smile flashed
out again--'I had forgotten! Of course Mrs. Fenwick must know! It was the picture--it was she
that saved him. But your note, by some strange accident, had escaped him. It had fallen out,
among some other papers on the floor--and he was nearly beside himself with disappointment.
I was lucky enough to find it and give it him. But oh! it was pitiful to see him.'

She shaded her eyes with her hand a moment, waiting for composure. Miss Anna watched her, the
strong mouth softening unconsciously.

'And so, when he asked me to come and see his wife first--to tell her about his troubles and
his breakdown--I felt as if I could not refuse--though, of course, I know'--she looked up appealingly--'it
may well seem strange and intrusive to Mrs. Fenwick. But perhaps when she understands how we
have all been searching for her these many months--'

'Searching!' exclaimed Miss Anna. 'Who has been searching?'

Her question arrested her companion. Eugénie drew herself more erect, collecting her thoughts.

'Shall we face the facts as they are?' she said at last, quietly. 'I can tell you very shortly
how the case stands.'

Miss Anna half-rose, looked at the door, sat down again.

'Mrs. Fenwick, you understand, may return at any time!'

'I will be very short. We must consult--mustn't we?--for them both?'

Timidly, her eyes upraised to the vigorous old face beside her, Eugénie held out her delicate
hand. With a quick, impulsive movement, wondering at herself, Miss Anna grasped it.

A little while later Miss Anna emerged from the parlour. She went upstairs to find Carrie.

Carrie was sitting beside the open door of her room, calmly ripping up a mattress. The bed
behind her had been substantially lengthened, apparently by the help of a packing-case in which
Mrs. Fenwick had brought some of her possessions across the Atlantic. A piece of white dimity
had been tacked round the packing-case.

'Carrie, what on earth are you doing?' cried Miss Anna, in dismay.

'It's all right,' said Carrie--'I'm only making it over. It's got lumpy.' Then she laid down
her scissors, flushed, and looked at Miss Anna. 'Who's that downstairs?'

'It's a lady who wants to see your mother. Will you go and fetch her?'

'Father's "messenger"?' cried Carrie, springing up, and breathing quick.

Miss Anna nodded.

'Your mother should be very grateful to her,' she said, in rather a shaky voice.

Carrie put on her hat in silence, and descended. The door of the parlour was open, and between
it and the parlour window stood the strange lady, staring at the river and the fell opposite,
apparently deep in thought.

At the sound of the girl's step Eugénie turned.

'Carrie!' she cried, involuntarily--'you are Carrie!' And she came forward, impetuously holding
out both her hands. 'How like the picture--how like!'

And Eugénie gazed in delight at the small, slight creature, so actively and healthily built,
in spite of her fairy proportions, at the likeness to Fenwick in hair and skin, at the apple-freshness
of her colour, the beauty of her eyes, the lightness of her pretty feet.

Twelve years!--and then to find this, dropped into your arms by the gods--this living, breathing
promise of all delight! Deep in Eugénie's heart there stirred the pang of her own pitiful motherhood,
of the child who had just flickered into life, and out of it, through one summer's day.

She shyly put her arm round the girl.

'May I,' she said, timidly--'may I kiss you?'

Carrie, with down-dropped eyes, a little grave, submitted.

'I am going to tell my mother. Father sent you, didn't he?'

Eugénie said 'Yes' gently, and released her. The child ran off.

Phoebe came slowly into the room, with an uncertain gait, touching the door and the walls like
one groping her way.

'Oh, Mrs. Fenwick!'

It was a little cry from Eugénie--deprecating, full of pain.

Phoebe took no notice of it. She went straight to her visitor.

'Where is my husband, please?' she said, in a strong, hoarse voice, mechanically holding out
her hand, which Eugénie touched and then let drop--so full of rugged, passionate things were
the face and form she looked at.

'He's coming by the afternoon train.' Eugénie threw all her will into calmness and clearness.
'He gets to Windermere before five--and he thought he might be here a little after six. He
was so ill yesterday--when I found him--when I went to see him! That's what he wanted me to
tell you before you saw him again--and so I came first--by the night train.'

'You went to see him--yesterday?' said Phoebe, still in the same tense way.

She had never asked her guest to sit, and she stood herself, one hand leaning heavily on the table.

'I had heard from the lawyers--the lawyers my father had recommended to Mr. Fenwick--that they
had found a clue--they had discovered some traces of you in Canada--and I went to tell him.'

'Lawyers?' Phoebe raised her left hand in bewilderment. 'I don't understand.'

Eugénie came a little nearer. Hurriedly, with changing colour, she gave an account of the researches
of the lawyers during the preceding seven months--interrupted in the middle by Phoebe.

'But why was John looking for us, after--after all this time?' she said, in a fainter, weaker
voice, dropping at the same time into a chair.

Eugénie hesitated; then said, firmly, 'Because he wished to find you, more than anything else
in the world. And my father and I helped him all we could--'

'But you didn't know?'--Phoebe caught piteously at her dress--'you didn't know--?'

'That Mr. Fenwick was married? No--never!--till last autumn. That was his wrong-doing, towards
all his old friends.'

Phoebe looked at the dignity and pureness of the face before her, and shrank a little.

'And how was it found out?' she breathed, turning away.

'There was a Miss Morrison--'

'Bella Morrison!' cried Phoebe, suddenly, clasping her hands--'Bella! Of course, she did it
to disgrace him.'

'We never knew what her motive was. But she told--an old friend--who told us.'

'And then--what did John say?'

The wife's hands shook--her eyes were greedy for an answer.

'Oh! it was all miserable!' said Eugénie, with a gesture of emotion. 'It made my father very
angry, and we could not be friends any more--as we had been. And Mr. Fenwick had a wretched
winter. He was ill--and his painting seemed to go wrong--and he was terribly in need of money--and
then came that day at the theatre--'

'I know,' whispered Phoebe, hanging on the speaker's lips--'when he saw Carrie?'

'It nearly killed him,' said Eugénie, gently. 'It was like a light kindled, and then blown out.'

Phoebe leant her head against the table before her, and began to sob--

'If I'd never let her go up that day! When we first landed I didn't know what to do--I couldn't
make up my mind. We'd taken lodgings down at Guildford--near some acquaintances we'd made in
Canada. And the girl was a great friend of Carrie's--we used to stay with them sometimes in
Montreal. She had acted a little at Halifax and Montreal--and she wanted an opening in London--and
somebody told her to apply at that theatre--I forget its name.'

'Halifax!' cried Eugénie--'Halifax, Nova Scotia? Oh, now I understand! We have searched England
through. The stage-manager said one of the young ladies mentioned Halifax. Nobody ever thought--'

She paused. Phoebe said nothing; she was grappling with some of the new ideas presented to her.

'And this was his second search, you know,' said Eugénie, laying a hand timidly on Phoebe's
shoulder. 'He had done all he could--when you left him. But when he lost sight of Carrie again--and
so of you both--it wore his heart out. I can see it did. He is a broken man.' Her voice trembled.
'Oh, you will have to nurse--to comfort him. He has been in despair about his art--in despair
about everything. He--'

But she checked herself. The rest was for him to tell.

'For a long time he seemed so--so--successful,' said Phoebe, plucking at the tablecloth, trying
to compose voice and features.

'Yes--but it didn't last. He seemed to get angry with himself--and everybody else. He quarrelled
with the Academy--and his work didn't improve--it went back. But then--when one's unhappy--'

Her smile and the pressure of her hand said the rest.

'He'll never forgive me!' said Phoebe, her voice thick and shaking. 'It can never be the same
again. I was a fool to come home.'

Eugénie withdrew her hand. Unconsciously, a touch of sternness showed itself in her bearing,
her pale features.

'No, no!'--she said, with energy. 'You will comfort him, Mrs. Fenwick--you will give him heart
and hope again. It was a cruel thing--forgive me if I say it once!--it was a cruel thing to
leave him! A man like that--with his weaknesses and his temperament--which are part of his
gift really--its penalty--wants his wife at every turn--the woman who loves him--who understands.
But to desert him for a suspicion!--a dream! Oh! Mrs. Fenwick, there are those who--who are
really starved--really forsaken--really trampled under foot--by those they love!'

Her voice broke. She stood gazing straight before her, quivering with the passion of recollection.
Phoebe looked up--awed--remembering what John had said, so long ago, of the unhappy marriage,
the faithless and cruel husband. But Eugénie's hand touched her again.

'And I know that you thought--I--had made Mr. Fenwick--forget you. That was so strange! At
that time--and for many years afterwards--my husband was still alive. If he had sent me a word--any
day--any hour--I would have gone to him--to the ends of the world. I don't mean--I don't pretend--that
my feeling for him remained unchanged. But my pride was--my duty was--that he should never
find me lacking. And last year--he turned to me--I was able to help him--through his death.
I had been his true wife--and he knew it.'

She spoke quietly, brushing the tears from her eyes. But with the last words, her voice wavered
a little. Phoebe had bowed her head upon the hand which held hers, and there was no spectator
of the feeling in Eugénie's face. Was her pure conscience tormented with the thought that she
had not told all, and could never tell it? Her innocent tempting of Fenwick--as an act, partly,
of piteous self-defence against impulses of quite another quality and power--this must remain
her secret to the end. Sad evasions, which life forces upon even the noblest worshippers of truth!

After a minute she stooped and kissed Phoebe's golden hair.

'I was so glad to help Mr. Fenwick--he interested me so. If I had only known of you--and the
child--why, how happy we might all have been!'

She withdrew her hand, and walked away to the window, trying to calm herself.

Phoebe rose and followed her.

'Do you know?'--she said, piteously--'can't you tell me?--will John take me back?'

Eugénie paused just a moment; then said, steadily, 'He is coming here, because you are his
wife--because he is faithful to you--because he wants you. Don't agitate him too much! He wants
resting and healing. And so do you!' She took Phoebe's hands again in hers. 'And how do you
think anybody is to deny you anything, when you bring such a gift as that?'

Carrie and Miss Mason were entering the little garden. Eugénie's smile, as she motioned towards
the girl, seemed to reflect the May sunshine and Carrie's young charm.

But after Madame de Pastourelles was gone, a cloud of nervous dread fell upon the little cottage
and its inmates. Phoebe wandered restlessly about the garden, waiting--and listening--hour
after hour.

The May evening drew towards sunset. Flame descended on the valley, striking athwart the opening
which leads to its furthest recess, superbly guarded by the crags of Bowfell, and turning all
the mountain-side above the cottage, still dyed with the fern of 'yesteryear,' to scarlet.
A fresh breeze blew through the sycamore leaves, bringing with it the cool scents of rain-washed
grass. All was hushed--richly hued--expectant--like some pageant waiting for its king.

Alas--poor king! In the full glory of the evening light, a man alighted from a wagonette at
the foot of the cottage hill, and dragged his weary limbs up the steep ground. He opened the
gate, looking round him slowly to right and left.

Then, in the porch, Fenwick saw his wife. He walked up to her, and gripped her wrists. She
fell back with a stifled cry; and they stood there--speechless and motionless--looking into
each other's eyes.

CHAPTER XIV

Phoebe first withdrew herself. In that first moment of contact, Fenwick's changed aspect had
pierced her to the heart. But the shock itself brought self-control.

'Come in,' she said, mechanically; 'Miss Anna's gone out.'

'Where's Carrie?'

He followed her in, glancing from side to side.

'She--she'll be here directly.'

Phoebe's voice stumbled over the words.

Fenwick understood that the child and Anna Mason were leaving them to themselves, out of delicacy;
and his exhaustion of mind and body recoiled impatiently from the prospect of a 'scene,' with
which he felt himself wholly unable to cope. He had been sorely tempted to stay at Windermere,
and telegraph that he was too ill to come that day. Such a course would at least have given
him the night's respite. But a medley of feelings had prevailed over the impulse; and here he was.

They entered the little parlour, and he looked round him in amazement, muttering, 'Why, it
looks just as it did--not a thing changed.'

Phoebe closed the door, and then turned to him, trembling.

'Won't you--won't you say you're glad to see me, John?'

He looked at her fixedly, then threw himself down beside the table, and rested his head on
his hands.

'It's no good to suppose we can undo these twelve years,' he said, roughly; 'it's no good whatever
to suppose that.'

'No,' said Phoebe--'I know.'

She too sat down on the other side of the table, deadly pale, not knowing what to say or do.

Suddenly he raised his head and looked at her, with his searching painter's eyes.

'My God!' he said, under his breath. 'We are changed, both of us--aren't we?'

She too studied the face before her--the grey hair, the red-rimmed eyes, of which the lids
fluttered perpetually, shrinking from the light, the sombre mouth; and slowly a look of still
more complete dismay overspread her own; reflected, as it were, from that half-savage discouragement
and weariness which spoke from the drawn features, the neglected dress, and slouching figure,
and seemed to make of the whole man one sore, wincing at a touch. Her heart sank--and sank.

'Can't we begin again?' she said, in a low voice, while the tears rose in her eyes. 'I'm sorry
for what I did.'

'How does that help it?' he said, irritably. 'I'm a ruined man. I can't paint any more--or,
at any rate, the world doesn't care a ha'p'orth what I paint. I should be a bankrupt--but for
Madame de Pastourelles--'

'John!' cried Phoebe, bending forward--'I've got a little money--I saved it--and there are
some shares a friend advised me to buy, that are worth a lot more than I gave for them. I've
got eight hundred pounds--and it's all yours, John,--it's all yours.' She stretched out her
hands in a yearning anguish, and touched his.

'What friend?' he said, with a quick, suspicious movement, taking no notice of her statement;
'and where have you been--all these years?'

He turned and looked at her sharply.

'I've been in Canada--on a farm--near Montreal.'

She held herself erect, speaking slowly and carefully, as though a moment had arrived for which
she had long prepared; through rebellion, and through yielding; now in defiance, and now in
fear: the moment when she should tell John the story of her flight. Her manner, indeed--for
one who could have understood it--proved a curious thing; that never, throughout their separation,
had she ceased to believe that she should see her husband again. There had been no finality
in her action. In her eyes the play had been always going on, the curtain always up.

'You know I told you about Freddy--Freddy Tolson's--coming to see me--that night? Well, it
was the things he said about Canada made me do it. Of course I didn't want to go where he was
going. But he said that one could get to Canada for a few pounds, and it took about nine days.
And it was a fine place, and any one could find work. He'd thought of it, he said, but as he
had friends in Australia, he was going there. And so, when he'd left the cottage, I thought--if,
when I came up to town--I--I did find what I expected--I'd take Carrie--and go to Canada.'

Fenwick rose, and, thrusting his hands into his pockets, began to walk up and down excitedly.

'And of course--as you expected it--you found it,' he said, bitterly. 'Who could ever have
conceived that a woman could act in such a way! Why, I had been kissing your photograph the
minute before! Lord Findon had been there, to tell me my pictures were in the Academy all right,
and he'd given me five hundred pounds for them--and the cheque'--he stopped in front of her,
rapping the table with his finger for emphasis--'the cheque was actually in the drawer!--under
your hand--where I'd left it. It was too late to catch the North post for a letter to you,
so I went out to tell one or two people, and on the way I bought some things for you at a shop--prettinesses
that I'd never been able to give you. Why, I thought of nothing but you.'

His voice had risen to a cry. He stooped, bending over the table, his haggard face close to hers.

She recoiled, and burst into a wild sob:

'John, I--I couldn't know!'

'Well, go on,' he said, abruptly, raising himself--'go on. You found that picture in my room--I'll
tell you about that presently--and you wrote me the letter. Well, then you went back to Euston,
and you sent Daisy away. After that?'

His stern, sharp tone, which was really the result of a nerve-tension hardly to be borne, scared
her. It was with painful difficulty that she collected her forces enough to meet his gaze and
to reply.

'I took Carrie to Liverpool. We had to wait three days there. Then we got on a steamer for
Québec. The voyage was dreadful. Carrie was ill, and I was so--so miserable! We stopped at
Québec a little. But I felt so strange there, with all the people speaking French--so we went
on to Montreal. And the Government people there who look after the emigrants found me a place.
I got work in an hotel--a sort of housekeeper. I looked after the linen, and the servants,
and after a bit I learnt how to keep the accounts. They paid me eight dollars a week, and Carrie
and I had a room at the top of the hotel. It was awfully hard work. I was so dead tired at
night, sometimes, I couldn't undress. I would sit down on the side of my bed to rest my feet;
and then the next thing I'd know would be waking in the morning, just as I was, in my clothes.
But so long as I slept, it was all right. It was lying awake--that killed me!'

The trembling of her lips checked her, and she began to play nervously with the fringe of the
tablecloth, trying to force back emotion. He had again seated himself opposite to her, and
was observing her with a half-frowning attention, as of one in whom the brain action is physically
difficult. He led her on, however, with questions, seeing how much she needed the help of them.

From Montreal, it appeared, she had gone to a fruit-farm in the Hamilton district, Ontario,
as housekeeper to a widower with a family of children varying in age from five to sixteen.
She had made the acquaintance of this man--a decent, rough, good-tempered fellow, Canadian-born--through
the hotel. He had noticed her powers of management, and her overwork; and had offered her equal
pay, an easier task, and country air, instead of the rush of Montreal.

'I accepted for Carrie's sake. It was an apple-farm, running down to Lake Ontario. I had to
look after the house and the children--and to cook--and wash--and bake--and turn one's hand
to anything. It wasn't too hard--and Carrie went to school with the others--and used to run
about the farm. Mr. Crosson was very kind. His old mother was living there--or I--wouldn't
have gone'--she flushed deeply--'but she was very infirm, and couldn't do anything. I took
in two English papers--and used to get along somehow. Once I was ill, with congestion of the
lungs, and once I went to Niagara, with some people who lived near. And I can hardly remember
anything else happening. It was all just the same--day after day--I just seemed to be half-alive.'

'Ah! you felt that?' he said, eagerly--'you felt that? There's a stuff they call curare. You
can't move--you're paralysed--but you feel horrible pain. That's what I used to feel like--for
months and months. And then sometimes--it was different--as if I didn't care twopence about
anything, except a little bit of pleasure--and should never vex myself about anything again.
One was dead, and it didn't matter--was rather pleasant indeed.'

She was silent. Her seeking, pitiful eyes were on him perpetually, trying to make him out,
to acquaint herself with this new personality, which spoke in these harsh staccato phrases--to
reconcile it with the exciteable, sanguine, self-confident man whom she had deserted in his youth.

'Well,' he resumed, 'and what was your farmer like?' Then, suddenly--lifting his eyes--'Did
he make love to you?'

She coloured hotly, and threw back her head.

'And if he did, it was no one's fault!--neither his nor mine. He wasn't a bad fellow!--and
he wanted some one to look after his children.'

'Naturally. Quite content also to look after mine!' said Fenwick, with a laugh which startled
her--resuming his agitated walk, a curious expression of satisfaction, triumph even, on his
dark face. 'So you found yourself in a false position?'

He stopped to look at her, and his smile hurt her sorely. But she had made up her mind to a
long patience, and she struggled on.

'It was partly that made me come home--that, and other things.'

'What other things?'

'Things--I saw--in some of the papers about you,' she said, with difficulty.

'What--that I was a flat failure?--a quarrelsome ass, and that kind of thing? You began to
pity me?'

'Oh, John, don't talk to me like that?' She held out her hands to him in appealing misery.
'I was sorry, I tell you!--I saw how I'd behaved to you. I thought if you hadn't been getting
on, perhaps it was my fault. It upset me altogether!'

But he didn't relent. He stood still--fiercely interrogative--his hands in his pockets, on
the other side of the table.

'And what else was there?'

Phoebe choked back her tears.

'There was a woman--who came to live near us--who had been a maid--' She hesitated.

'Please go on!'

'Maid to Madame de Pastourelles'--she said, hastily, stumbling over the French name.

He exclaimed:

'In Ontario!'

'She married a man she had been engaged to for years; he'd been making a home for her out there.
I liked her directly I saw her; and she was too delicate for the life; she came in the fall,
and the winter tried her dreadfully. I used to go in to nurse her--she was very much alone--and
she told me all about herself--and about--'

'Madame?'

Phoebe nodded, her eyes swimming again in tears.

'And you found out you'd been mistaken?'

She nodded again.

'You see--she talked about her to me a great deal. Of course I--I never said anything. She'd
been with her fifteen years--and she just worshipped her. And she told me about her bad husband--how
she'd nursed him, and that--and how he died last year!'

A wild colour leapt into Fenwick's cheeks.

'And you began to think--there might be a false position--there too--between her and me?'

His cruel, broken words stung her intolerably. She sprang up, looking at him fiercely.

'And if I did, it wasn't all selfishness. Can't you understand, I might have been afraid for
her--and you--as well as for myself?'

He moved again to the window, and stood with head bent, twisting his lip painfully.

'And to-day you've seen her?' he said, still looking out.

'Yes--she was very, very kind,' said Phoebe, humbly.

He paused a moment, then broke out--

'And now you see--what you did!--what a horrible thing!--for the most ridiculous reasons! But
after you'd left me--in that way--you couldn't expect me to give her up--her friendship--all
I had. For nine or ten years, if I prospered at all, I tell you it was her doing--because she
upheld me--because she inspired me--because her mere existence shamed me out of doing--well,
what I could never have resisted, but for her. If I ever did good work, it was her doing--if
I have been faithful to you, in spite of everything, it was her doing too!'

He sank down upon the window-seat--his face working. And suddenly Phoebe was at his knees.

'Oh, John--John--forgive me!--do, John!--try and forgive me!' She caught his hands in hers,
kissing them, bathing them with her tears. 'John, we can begin again!--we're not so old. You'll
have a long rest--and I'll work for you night and day. We'll go abroad with some of my money.
Don't you know how you always said, if you could study abroad a bit, what good it'd do you?
We'll go, won't we? And you'll paint as well as ever--you'll get everything back. Oh, John!
don't hate me!--don't hate me! I've loved you always--always--even when I was so mad and cruel
to you. Every night in Canada, I used to long for it to be morning--and then in the morning
I longed for it to be night. Nothing was any good to me, or any pleasure--without you. But
at first, I was just in despair--I thought I'd lost you for ever--could never, never come back.
And then afterwards--when I wanted to come back--when I knew I'd been wicked--I didn't know
how to do it--how to face it. I was frightened--frightened of what you'd say to me--how you'd
look!'

She paused, her arms flung round him, her tear-stained face upraised. In her despair, and utter
sincerity, she was once more beautiful--with a tragic beauty of character and expression, not
lost for one moment upon the man beside her.

He laid his right hand on her head amid the masses of her fair hair, and held it there, forcing
her head back a little, studying her in a bitter passion--the upper lip drawn back a little
over the teeth, which held and tormented the lower.

'Twelve years!' he said, slowly, after a minute, his eyes plunging into hers--'twelve years!
What do you know of me now?--or I of you? I should offend you twenty times a day. And--perhaps--it
might be the same with me.'

Phoebe released herself, and laid her head against his knee.

'John!--take me back--take me back!'

'Why did you torture me?' he said, hoarsely. 'You sent me Carrie six weeks ago--and then swept
her away again.'

She cried out. 'It was the merest accident!' And volubly--abjectly--she explained.

He listened to her, but without seeming to understand--his own mind working irrelevantly all
the time. And presently he interrupted her.

'Besides--I'm unhinged--I'm not fit to have women dependent on me. I can't answer for myself.
Yesterday--if that picture had come at eight o'clock instead of seven--it would have been too
late!'

His voice altered strangely.

Phoebe fell back upon the floor, huddled together--staring at him.

'What do you mean?'

'I should have destroyed myself. That's what I mean. I had made up my mind. It was just touch
and go.'

Phoebe sat speechless. It seemed as though her eyes--so wide and terrified--were fixed in their
places, and could not release him. He moved impatiently; the appeal, the horror of them, were
more than he could bear.

'And much better for you if I had!--and as for Carrie!--Ah!--good Heavens! there she is.'

He sprang up in agitation, looking through the open window, yet withdrawing from it. Phoebe
too rose, the colour rushing back into her cheeks. This was to be her critical, her crucial
moment. If she recovered him, she was to owe it to her child.

Carrie and Miss Mason came along the path together. They had been in a wood beside the Elterwater
road; not knowing how to talk to each other; wandering apart, and gathering flowers idly, to
pass the time. Carrie held a large bunch of bluebells in her hand. She wore a cotton dress
of greyish-blue, just such a dress as Phoebe might have worn in her first youth. The skirt
was short, and showed her tripping feet. Under her shady hat with its pink rose, her eyes glanced
timidly towards the house, and then withdrew themselves again. Fenwick saw that the eyes were
in truth darker than Phoebe's, and the hair much darker--no golden mist like her mother's,
but nearer to his own--a warm brown, curly and vigorous. Her face was round and rosy, but so
delicately cut and balanced, it affected him with a thrill of delight. He perceived also that
she was very small--smaller than he had thought, in the theatre. But at the same time, her
light proportions had in them no hint of weakness or fragility. If she were a fairy, she was
no twilight spirit, but rather a cheerful dawn-fairy--one of those happy household sprites
that help the work of man.

He went and opened the door for them, trembling.

Carrie saw him there--paused--and then walked on quickly--ahead of Miss Mason.

'Father!' she said, gravely, and looking at him, she held out her hand.

He took it, and then, drawing her to him, he kissed her hurriedly.

Carrie's cheeks grew very red, and her eyes moist, for a moment. But she had long since determined
not to cry--because poor mummy would be sure to.

'I guess you'll be wanting your tea,' she said, shyly, looking from him to her mother; 'I'll
go and see to it.'

Miss Anna came up behind, concealing as best she could the impression made upon her by the
husband and wife as they stood in the porch, under the full western light. Alack! here was
no happy meeting!--and it was no good pretending.

Fenwick greeted her with little or no demonstration of any sort, though he and she, also, had
never met since the year of Phoebe's flight. His sunken eyes indeed regarded her with a look
that seemed to hold her at bay--a strange look full of bitterness. She understood it to mean
that he was not there to lend himself to any sham sentimental business; and that physically
he was ill, and could stand no strain, whatever women might wish.

After a few questions about his journey, Miss Anna quietly begged him to come in and rest.
He hesitated a moment, then with his hands in his pockets followed her to the parlour; while
Phoebe, with Carrie's arm round her, went falteringly upstairs.

Miss Anna made no scene and asked for no information. She and Carrie bustled to and fro, preparing
supper. Fenwick at his own request remained alone in the parlour. But when supper-time came,
it was evident that he was too feeble to face an ordinary meal. He lay back in Miss Anna's
armchair with closed eyes, and took no notice of Phoebe's timid summons. The women looked in
upon him, alarmed and whispering together. Then Miss Anna drew Phoebe away, and mixing some
milk and brandy sent Carrie in with it. 'He will go away to-morrow!' she said, in Phoebe's
ear, referring to a muttered saying of the patient,--'we shall see!'

As Carrie entered the parlour with the milk and brandy, Fenwick looked up.

'Where am I to sleep?' he asked her, abruptly, his eyes lingering on her.

'In my room,' she said, softly; 'I'm going in to Miss Anna. I've lengthened the bed!'

A faint smile flickered over his face.

'How did you do that?'

'I nailed on a packing-case. Isn't it queer?--Miss Anna hadn't any tools. I had to borrow some
at the farm--and they were the poorest scratch lot you ever saw. Why, everybody in Canada has
tools.'

He held her with a shaking hand, still looking intently at her bright face.

'Did you like Canada?'

She smiled.

'Why, it's lovely!'

Then her lips parted eagerly. She would have liked to go on talking, to make acquaintance.
But she refrained. This man--this strange new father--was 'sick'--and must be kept quiet.

'Will you help me up to bed?' he murmured--as she was just going away.

She obeyed, and he leant on her shoulder as they mounted the steep cottage stair. Her physical
strength astonished him--the amount of support that this child of seventeen was able to give him.

She led him into his room, where she had already brought his bag, and unpacked his things.

'Is it all right, father? Do you want anything else? Shall I send mother?'

'No, no,' he said, hastily--'I'm all right. Tell them I'm all right; I only want to go to sleep.'

She turned at the door, and looked at him wistfully.

'I did make that mattress over--part of it. But it's a real bad one.'

He nodded, and she went.

'A dream!' he said to himself--'a dream!'

He was thinking of the child as she stood bathed in the mingled glory of sunset and moonlight
flowing in upon her from the open window; for the long day of northern summer was still lingering
in the valley.

'Ah! if I could only paint!--oh, God, if I could paint!' he groaned aloud, rubbing his hands
together in a fever of impotence and misery.

Then he tumbled into bed, and lay there weak and passive, feeling the strangeness of the remembered
room, of the open casement window, of the sycamore outside, and the mountain forms beyond it;
of this pearly or golden light in which everything was steeped.

In the silence he heard the voice of the beck, as it hurried down the ghyll. Twelve years since
he had heard it last; and the eternal water 'at its priestlike task' still murmured with the
rocks, still drank the rain, and fed the river. No rebellion there, no failure; no helpless will!

He tried to think of Phoebe, to remember what she had said to him. He wondered if he had been
merely brutal to her. But his heart seemed a dry husk within him. It was, as it had been. He
could neither think nor feel.

Next day he was so ill that a doctor was sent for. He prescribed long rest, said all excitement
must be avoided, all work put away.

Four or five dreary weeks followed. Fenwick stayed in bed most of the day, struggled down to
the garden in the afternoon, was nursed by the three women, and scarcely said a word from morning
till night that was not connected with some bodily want or discomfort. He showed no repugnance
to his wife, would let her wait upon him, and sit beside him in the garden. But he made no
spontaneous movement towards her whatever; and the only person who evidently cheered him was
Carrie. He watched the child incessantly--in her housework, her sewing, her gardening, her
coaxing of her pale mother, her fun with Miss Anna, who was by now her slave. There was something
in the slight foreignness of her ways and accent, in her colonial resource and independence
that delighted and amused him like a pleasant piece of acting. She had the cottage under her
thumb. By now she had cleaned all the furniture, 'coloured' most of the walls, and mended all
the linen, which had been in a sad condition--Miss Anna's powers being rather intellectual
than practical. And through it all she kept a natural daintiness and refinement, was never
clumsy, or loud, or untidy. She came and went so lightly--and always bringing with her the
impression of something hidden and fragrant, a happiness within, that gave a dancing grace
and perfume to all her life.

To her father she chattered mostly of Canada, and he would sit in the shade of the cottage,
listening to her while she described their life; the big, rambling farm, the children she had
been brought up with, the great lake with its ice and its storms, the apple-orchards, the sleighing
in winter, the beauty of the fall, the splendour of the summers, the boom that was beginning
'up west.' Cunningly, in fact, she set the stage for an actor to come; but his 'cue' was not yet.

It was only from her, indeed, that he would hear of these things. If Phoebe ventured on them
his manner stiffened at once. Miss Anna's strong impression was, still, that with his wife
he was always on his guard against demands he felt himself physically unable to meet. Yet it
seemed to her, as time went on, that he was more and more aware of Phoebe, more sensitive to
her presence, her voice.

She too watched Phoebe, and with a growing, involuntary respect. This changed woman had endured
'hardness,' had at last followed her conscience; and, rebuffed and unforgiven as she seemed
to be, she was clothed none the less in a new dignity, modest and sad, but real. She might
be hopeless of recovering her husband; but all the same, the law which links that strange thing,
spiritual peace, with certain surrenders, had already begun to work, unknown even to herself.

As she moved about the cottage and garden, indeed, new contacts, new relations, slowly established
themselves, unseen and unexpressed, between her and the man who scarcely noticed her in words,
from morning till night. 'I should offend you twenty times a day,' he had said to her--'and
perhaps it might be the same with me!' But they did not offend each other!--that was the merciful
new fact, asserting itself through this silent, suspended time. She was still beautiful. The
mountain air restored her clear, pure colour; and what time had robbed her of in bloom it had
given her back in character--the artist's supreme demand. Self-control, bitterly learnt--fresh
capacities, moral or practical--these expressed themselves in a thousand trifles. Not only
in her tall slenderness and fairness was she presently a challenge to Fenwick's sharpening
sense; she began, in a wholly new degree, to interest his intelligence. Her own had blossomed;
and in spite of grief, she had brought back with her some of the ways of a young and tiptoe
world. Soon he was, in secret, hungry for her history--the history he had so far refused to
hear. Who was this man who had made love to her?--how far had it gone?--he tossed at nights
thinking of it. There came a time when he would gladly have exchanged Carrie's gossip for hers;
and through her soft silence, as she sat beside him, he would hear suddenly, in memory, the
echoes of her girlish voice, and make a quick movement towards her--only to check himself in
shyness or pride.

Meanwhile he could not know that he too had grown in her eyes, as she in his. In spite of all
his errors and follies, he had not wrestled with his art, he had not lived among his intellectual
peers, he had not known Eugénie de Pastourelles through twelve years, for nothing. Embittered
he was, but also refined. The nature had grown harsher and more rugged--but also larger, more
complex, more significant, better worth the patiences of love. As for his failure, the more
she understood it, the more it evoked in her an angry advocacy, a passionate championship,
a protesting faith--which she had much ado to hide.

And all this time letters came occasionally from Madame de Pastourelles--indifferently to her
or to him--full of London artistic gossip, the season being now in full swim, of sly stimulus
and cheer. As they handed them to each other, without talking of them, it was as though the
shuttle of fate flew from life to life--these in Langdale, and that in London--weaving the
three into a new pattern which day by day replaced and hid away the old.

The days lengthened towards midsummer. After a spell of rain, June descended in blossom and
sunshine on the Westmoreland vales. The hawthorns were out, and the wild cherries. The bluebells
were fading in the woods, but in the cottage gardens the lilacs were all fragrance, and the
crown-imperials showed their heads of yellow and red. Each valley and hillside was a medley
of soft and shimmering colour, save in the higher, austerer dales, where, as in Langdale, the
woods scarcely climb, and the bare pastures have only a livelier emerald to show, or the crags
a warmer purple, as their testimony to the spring.

Fenwick was unmistakeably better. The signs of it were visible in many directions. His passive,
silent ways, so alien to his natural self and temperament, were at last breaking down.

One evening, Carrie, who had been to Elterwater, brought back some afternoon letters. They
included a letter from Canada, which Carrie read over her mother's shoulder, laughing and wondering.
Phoebe was sitting on a bench in the garden, an old yew-tree just above her on the slope. The
heads of both mother and child were thrown out sharply on the darkness of the yew background--Phoebe's
profile, upturned, and the abundant coils of her hair, were linked in harmonious line with
the bending figure and beautiful head of the girl.

Suddenly Fenwick put down the newspaper which Carrie had brought him. He rose, muttered something,
and went into the house. They could hear him rummaging in his room, where Phoebe had lately
unpacked some boxes forwarded from London. He had never so far touched brush or crayon during
his stay at the cottage.

Presently he returned with a canvas and palette.

'Don't go!' he said, peremptorily, to Carrie, raising his hand. 'Stand as you were before.'

'You don't want me?' asked Phoebe, startled, her pale cheeks suddenly pink.

'Yes, yes, I do!' he said, impatiently. 'For God's sake, don't move, either of you!'

He went back for an easel, then sat down and began to paint.

They held themselves as still as mice. Carrie could see her mother's hands trembling on her lap.

Suddenly Fenwick said, in emotion:

'I don't know how it is--but I see much better than I did.'

Miss Anna looked up from the low wall on which she was sitting.

'The doctor said you would, John, when you got strong,' she put in, quickly. 'He said you'd
been suffering from your eyes a long time without knowing it. It was nerves like the rest.'

Fenwick said nothing. He went on painting, painting fast and freely--for nearly an hour. All
the time Phoebe could hardly breathe. It was as though she felt the doors opening upon a new
room in the House of Life.

Then the artist threw his canvas on the grass, and stood looking at it.

'By Jove!' he said, presently. 'By Jove!--that'll do.'

Phoebe said nothing. Carrie came up to him and put her hand in his arm.

'Father, that's enough. Don't do any more.'

'All right. Take it away--and all these things.'

She lifted the sketch, the palette and brushes, and carried them into the house.

Then Fenwick looked up irresolutely. His wife was still sitting on the bench. She had her sewing
in her hands.

'Your hair's as pretty as ever, Phoebe,' he said, in a queer voice. Phoebe raised her deep
lids slowly, and her eyes spoke for her. She would offer herself no more--implore no more--but
he knew in that moment that she loved him more maturely, more richly, than she had ever loved
him in the old days. A shock, that was also a thrill, ran through him. They remained thus for
some seconds gazing at each other. Then, as Carrie returned, Phoebe went into the house.

Carrie studied her father for a little, and then came to sit down on the grass beside him.
Miss Anna had gone for a walk along the fell.

'Are you feeling better, father?'

'Yes--a good deal.'

'Well, then--now--I can tell you my news.'

And she deliberately drew out a photograph from her pocket, and held it up to him.

'Well'--said Fenwick, mystified. 'Who's the young man?'

'He's my young man'--was Carrie's entirely self-possessed reply. 'I'm going to marry him.'

'What?' cried Fenwick. 'Show him to me.'

Carrie yielded up her treasure rather timidly.

Fenwick looked at the picture, then put it down angrily.

'What nonsense are you talking, Carrie! Why, you're only a baby. You oughtn't to be thinking
of any such things.'

Carrie shook her head resolutely. 'I'm not a baby. I've been in love with him more than a year.'

'Upon my word!' said Fenwick; 'who allowed you to be in love with him? And has it never occurred
to you--lately--that you'd have to ask my leave?'

Carrie hesitated. 'In Canada I wouldn't have to,' she said, at last, decidedly.

'Oh! they've abolished the Fifth Commandment there, have they?'

'No, no. But the girls choose for themselves!' said Carrie, tossing back her brown curls with
the slightest touch of defiance.

Fenwick observed her, his brow clouding.

'And you suppose that I'm going to say "Yes" at once to this mad proposal?--that I'm going
to give you up altogether, just as I've got you back? I warn you at once, I shall not consent
to any such thing!'

There was silence. Fenwick sat staring at her, his lips moving, angry sentences of authority
and reproach forming themselves in his mind--but without coming to speech. It was intolerable,
inhuman--that at this very moment, when he wanted her most, this threat of fresh loss should
be sprung upon him. She was his--his property. He would not give her up to any Canadian fellow,
and he altogether disapproved of such young love-affairs.

'Father,' said Carrie, after a moment, 'when George asked me--we didn't know--'

'About me? Well, now you do know,' said Fenwick, roughly. 'I'm here--and I have my rights.'

He put out his hand and seized her arm, looking at her, devouring her, in a kind of angry passion.

Carrie grew a little pale, and, coming nearer, she laid her head against his knee.

'Father, you don't understand what we propose.'

'Well, out with it, then!'

'We wouldn't think about being married for three years. Why, of course we wouldn't! I don't
want to be all settled that soon. And, besides, we're going abroad--you and mummy and I. I'm
going to take you!' She sat up, tossing her pretty head, her eyes as bright as stars.

'And be thinking all the time of the Canadian chap?--bored with everything!' growled Fenwick.

Carrie surveyed him. A film of tears sparkled.

'I'm never bored. Father!'--she held herself erect, throwing all her soul into every word--'George
is--awfully--nice!'

Ah! the 'life-force'! There it was before him, embodied in this light, ardent creature, on
whose brown head and white dress the June sun streamed through the sycamore-leaves. With a
groan--suddenly--Fenwick weakened.

'What's his horrid name?--who is he?--quick!'

Carrie gave a little crow--and began to talk, sitting there on the grass, with her hands round
her knees. The interloper, it appeared, had every virtue and every prospect. What was to be
done? Presently Carrie crept up to him again.

'Father!--he wants to come to Europe. When you've found a plan--if we let him come and hitch
up alongside of us somewhere--why, he wouldn't be any trouble!--I'd see to that! And you don't
know whether--whether a son--mightn't suit you! Why!--you've never tried!'

He made an effort, and held her at arm's length.

'I tell you, I can say nothing about it--nothing--till George has written to me!'

'But he has--this mail!' And in triumph she hastily dragged a letter out of the little bag
at her waist, and gave it him. 'It came this afternoon, only I didn't know if you might have it.'

He laughed excitedly, and took it.

An hour later Fenwick rose. The day had grown cool. A fresh breeze was blowing from the north
down the fell-side. He put his arm round Carrie as she stood beside him, kissed her, and in
a gruff, unintelligible voice, murmured something that brought the tears again to her eyes.
Then he announced that he was going for a short walk. Neither Phoebe nor Miss Anna were to
be seen. Carrie protested on the score of his health.

'Nonsense! The doctor said I might do what I felt I could do.'

'Then you must say good-bye to me. For Miss Anna and I are going directly.'

Fenwick looked scared, but was soon reminded that Miss Anna was to drive the child that evening
to Bowness, where Carrie was to be introduced to some old friends of Miss Anna's and stay with
them a couple of days. He evidently did not like the prospect, but he made no audible protest
against it, as he would perhaps have done a week before.

Carrie watched him go--followed his figure with her eyes along the road.

'And I'm glad we're off!'--she said to herself, her small feet dancing--'we've been cumbering
this ground, Miss Anna and I--a deal too long!'

He was soon nearly a mile from home; rejoicing strangely in his recovered power of movement,
and in the freshness of the evening air. He found himself on a hill above Elterwater, looking
back on the lake, and on a wide range of hills beyond, clothed, in all their lower slopes,
with the full leaf of June. Wood rose above wood, in every gradation of tone and loveliness,
creeping upwards through blue haze, till they suddenly lost hold on the bare peaks, which rose,
augustly clear, into the upper sky. The lake with its deep or glowing reflexions--its smiling
shore--the smoke of its few houses--lay below him; and between him and it, glistening sharply,
in a sun-steeped magic, upon the blue and purple background of the hills and woods--a wild
cherry, in its full mantle of bridal white.

What tranquillity!--what colour!--what infinite variety of beauty! His heart swelled within
him. Life of the body--and life of the soul--seemed to be flowing back upon him, lifting him
on its wave, steeping him in its freshening strength. 'My God!' he thought, remembering the
sketch he had just made, and the mastery with which he had worked--'if I am able to paint again!--if
I am!'

An ecstasy of hope arose in him. What if really there had been something wrong with his eyes!--something
that rest might set right? What if he had wanted rest for years?--and had gone on defying nature
and common sense?

And in a moment, as he sat there, looking out into the evening, the old whirl of images invaded
him--the old tumult of ideas--clamouring for shape and form--flitting, phantom-like, along
the woods and over the bosom of the lake. He let himself be carried along, urging his brain,
his fancy, filled with indescribable happiness. It was years since the experience had last
befallen him! Did it mean the return of youth?--conception?--creative power? What matter!--years,
or hardship?--if the mind could still imagine, the hand still shape?

He thought of his own series of the 'Months'--which he had planned among these hills, and had
carried out perfunctorily and vulgarly, in the city, far from the freshness and infinity of
Nature. All the faults of his designs appeared to him, and the poverty of their execution.
But he was only exultant, not depressed. Now that he could judge himself, now that his brain
had begun to react once more, with this vigour, this wealth of idea--surely all would be well.

Then for the first time he thought of the money which Phoebe had saved. Abroad! Italy?--or
France? To go as a wanderer and a student, on pilgrimage to the sources of beauty and power.
What was old, or played out? Not Beauty!--not the mind within him--not his craftsman's sense.
He threw himself on the grass, face downwards, praying as he had been wont to do in his youth,
but in a far more mystical, more inward way; not to a far-off God, invited to come down and
change or tamper with external circumstance; but to something within himself, identified with
himself, the power of beauty in him, the resurgent forces of hope--and love.

At last, after a long time, as the summer twilight was waning, there struck through his dream
the thought of Phoebe--alone in the cottage--waiting for him. He sprang up, and began to hurry
down the hill.

Phoebe was quite alone. The little servant who only came for the day had gone back to the farm
where she slept, and Carrie and Miss Anna had long since departed on their visit.

Carrie had told her mother that 'father' had gone for a walk. And strangely enough, though
he was away two hours, and she knew him still far from his usual strength, Phoebe was not anxious.
But she was mortally tired--as though of a sudden a long tension had been loosened, a long
effort relaxed.

So she had gone upstairs to bed. But she had not begun to undress, and she sat in a low chair
near the window, with the casements wide open, and the twin-peaks visible through them under
a starry sky. Her head had fallen back against the chair; her hands were folded on her lap.

Then she heard Fenwick come in and his step coming up the stairs.

It paused outside her door, and her heart beat so that she could hardly bear it.

'May I come in?'

It seemed to her that he did not wait for her low reply. He came in, and shut the door. There
was a bright colour in his face, and his breath came fast, as he stood beside her, with his
hands on his sides.

'Are you sure you like my coming?' he said, brusquely.

She did not answer in words, but she put out her hand, and drew him towards her.

He knelt down by her, and she flung an arm round his neck, and laid her fair head on his shoulder
with a long sigh.

'You are very tired?'

'No. I knew you would come.'

A silence. Then he said, waveringly, stooping over her:

'Phoebe--I was very hard to you. But there was a black pall on me--and now it's lifting. Will
you forgive me?--my dear--my dear!'

She clung to him with a great cry. And once more the torrent of love and repentance was unsealed,
which had been arrested through all these weeks. In broken words--in mutual confession--each
helping, each excusing the other--the blessed healing time passed on its way; till suddenly,
as her hand dropped again upon her knee, he noticed, as he had often bitterly noticed before,
the sham wedding-ring on the third finger.

She saw his eyes upon it, and flushed.

'I had to, John,' she pleaded. 'I had to.'

He said nothing, but he thrust his hand into the breast-pocket of his coat, and brought out
the same large pocket-book which still held her last letter to him. He took out the letter,
and offered it to her. 'Don't read it,' he said, peremptorily. 'Tear it up.'

She recognised it, with a sob, and, trembling, did as he bade her. He gathered up the small
fragments of it, took them to the grate, and lit a match under them. Then he returned to her--still
holding the open pocket-book.

'Give me your hand.'

She held it out to him, bewildered. He slowly drew off the ring, put it aside; then from the
inmost fold of the pocket-book he took another ring, slipt it on her finger, and kissed the
hand. After which he knelt down again beside her, and they clung to each other--close and long.

'I return it'--he murmured--'after twelve years! God bless you for Carrie. God bless you for
coming back to me. We'll go to Italy. You shall do that for me. But I'll repay you--if I live.
Now, are you happy? Why, we're young yet!'

And so they kissed; knowing well that the years are irreparable, and yet defying them; conscious,
as first youth is never conscious, of the black forces which surround our being, and yet full
of passionate hope; aware of death, as youth is never aware of it, and yet determined to shape
something out of life; sad and yet rejoicing, 'cast down, but not destroyed.'

EPILOGUE

Of Eugénie, still a few words remain to say. About a year after Fenwick's return she lost her
father. A little later Elsie Welby died. To the end of her life she had never willingly accepted
Eugénie's service, and the memory of this, alack, is for Eugénie among the pains that endure.
What influence it may have had upon her later course can hardly be discussed here. She continued
to live in Westminster, and to be the friend of many. One friend was tacitly accepted by all
who loved her as possessing a special place and special privileges. Encouraged and inspired
by her, Arthur Welby outlived the cold and academic manner of his later youth, and in the joy
of richer powers, and the rewards of an unstained and pure affection, he recovered much that
life seemed once to have denied him. Eugénie never married him. In friendship, in ideas, in
books, she found the pleasures of her way. Part of her life she spent--with yearning and humility--among
the poor. But with them she never accomplished much. She was timid in their presence, and often
unwise; neither side understood the other. Her real sphere lay in what a great Oxford preacher
once enforced at St. Mary's, as--'our duty to our equals'--the hardest of all. Her influence,
her mission, were with her own class; with the young girls just 'out,' who instinctively loved
and clung to her; with the tired or troubled women of the world, who felt her presence as the
passage of something pure and kindling which evoked their better selves; and with those men,
in whom the intellectual life wages its difficult war with temperament and circumstance, for
whom beauty and truth are realities, and yet--great also is Diana of the Ephesians! Thus in
her soft, glancing, woman's way, she stood with 'the helpers and friends of mankind.' But she
never knew it. In her own opinion, few persons were so unprofitable as she; and but for her
mystical belief, the years would have brought her melancholy. They left her smile, however,
undimmed. For the mystic carries within a little flame of joy, very hard to quench. The wind
of Death itself does but stir and strengthen it.