SOME OLD TIME BEAUTIES

After Portraits by the English Masters, with Embellishment and Comment

by

THOMSON WILLING

Boston Joseph Knight Company

MDCCCXCV

CONTENTS

   GEORGIANA, DUCHESS OF DEVONSHIRE
   Portrait by Thomas Gainsborough

   MARY, HONORABLE MRS. GRAHAM
   Portrait by Thomas Gainsborough.

   EMMA, LADY HAMILTON
   Portrait by George Romney.

   MRS. SHERIDAN
   Portrait by Sir Joshua Reynolds.

   MARGUERITE, COUNTESS BLESSINGTON
   Portrait by Sir Thomas Lawrence.

   MARY ISABELLA, DUCHESS OF RUTLAND
   Portrait by Sir Joshua Reynolds.

   LAVINIA, COUNTESS SPENCER
   Portrait by Sir Joshua Reynolds.

   ELIZABETH, DUCHESS OF HAMILTON
   Portrait by Catharine Read.

   MARIA, COUNTESS OF COVENTRY
   Portrait by Gavin Hamilton.

   ELIZABETH, COUNTESS GROSVENOR
   Portrait by Sir Thomas Lawrence.

HER GRACE OF DEVONSHIRE

The Dashing Duchess,--the impulsive, ebullient beauty whose smile swayed ministers, and for
whose favor princes were beggars! A loveliness of manner, as of feature, such seductive color,--glowing
carnations,--and such golden-brown hair, with a fine figure, made up an opulent personality,
than which no more consummate type of beauty has been preserved to us by painter or poet.

Georgiana Spencer was the daughter of Lord Spencer, afterwards first Earl Spencer; but her
impulsiveness, her waywardness, and improvidence were a legacy from her grandfather, "Jack"
Spencer, the grandson and special favorite of the beautiful Sarah, Duchess of Marlborough.
Her "Torismond," she called him. His was a career of profligacy, a course of error and extravagance.
His mother was Lady Sunderland, known in society as "the little Whig," from her small stature
and her persistent politics. Her party badge was always worn,--the black patch on the left
side of the face, as distinguished from the Tory fashion of wearing it on the right side. So
Georgiana came legitimately by her beauty, her Whiggish politics, and her versatile vivacity
of manner, as well as her improvidence and indiscretion.

But her mother's strong character was a potent influence. She was the daughter of the Right
Honorable Stephen Poyntz, and was of high repute for generosity, for sensibility, for charity,
and for courteous dignity of demeanor. We hear of Georgiana being a beautiful child; and Reynolds
as well as Gainsborough, both made painted record of that childish beauty. Her brightness of
mind gave her an interest in art, in music, and in literature; and, though not proficient in
the practice of either, she had more than the society woman's knowledge of them. At seventeen,
she married William, fifth Duke of Devonshire, ten years her senior. His was a temperament
antipathetic to hers,--unsympathetic, unimpressionable, and taciturn, yet withal of the Cavendish
characteristic persistency of purpose and honest intent.

The Duchess at once became a queen of society in the Carlton House Court. Devonshire House
was an assembly place for the Whigs; and its lovely mistress was the hostess of many a statesman
exalted by his wit, as of many a politician with following by virtue of his station. Like all
radical companies, it was a motley mixture that found welcome there. The Prince of Wales was
a devotee. The then shining Sheridan was a frequenter; but with the name of Fox has that of
the Duchess been more associated than of aught other. Her supremacy among these companions
was not in the manner of the French Salon leaders,--while wit, knowledge, and tact were hers,
she lived not by learning, but by her liveliness and jollity. She was not the scholar in politics,
but the politician among scholars out of school.

It was a roystering, revelling company; and political as well as personal penury became the
portion of many as the result of these improvident and profligate days. The episode of the
Duchess's career which is most known, is her purchase, by a kiss, of a vote for Fox when she
was championing his cause in an election, and canvassing for votes in company with her sister,
Lady Duncannon. It was said, "never before had two such lovely portraits appeared on a canvass."
A butcher bargained for his vote by asking a kiss from the lovely lips of the seductive Duchess.
The price was paid, amid the plaudits of the crowd. An Irish elector, impressed by the fair
appellant's vivacity, exclaimed: "I could light my pipe at her eyes."

Fox was elected for the Tory borough of Westminster, and great was the rejoicing at Carlton
House. A fête was given on the grounds the day following, and the ordinarily well-apparelled
Prince appeared in a superb costume of the radical colors, blue and buff. This was the period
of the Duchess's greatest glory, as well as of her most superb charm of personality; and it
was about this period that Gainsborough painted his perennially delightful presentment of her.
She was then twenty-seven years of age, and had been married ten years. Wraxall wrote what
is probably the best contemporary description of her: "The personal charms of the Duchess of
Devonshire constituted her smallest pretensions to universal admiration; nor did her beauty
consist, like that of the Gunnings, in regularity of features, and faultless formation of limbs
and shape; it lay in the amenity and graces of her deportment, in her irresistible manners,
and the seduction of her society. Her hair was not without a tinge of red; and her face, though
pleasing, yet, had it not been illuminated by her mind, might have been considered an ordinary
countenance."

It is said of Gainsborough that, while painting the Duchess, "he drew his wet pencil across
a mouth all thought exquisitely lovely, saying, 'Her Grace is too hard for me.'"

The lady later knew the cuts of comment, and the keen pain of justifiable jealousy. The rival
in her husband's attentions was Lady Elizabeth Foster, daughter of the Earl of Bristol, a brunette
of handsome presence, and at the death of Georgiana, in 1806, she became the second wife of
the Duke. There was an apparent friendship between the ladies, and Lady Elizabeth for a time
lived under the same roof as the Duchess.

Madame d'Arblay, in 1791, visited her at Bath, and made record then of her introduction to
the Duchess, and indicated the premonition of trouble in this wise. Reynolds painted a portrait
of her, showing a bright-eyed, smiling lady, with close-curled hair, of girlish appearance.
In Samuel Rogers's "Table Talk" are several mentions of the famous Georgiana, and especially
one which tells of her love for gambling. "Gaming was the rage during her day; she indulged
in it, and was made miserable by her debts. A faro-table was kept by Martindale, at which the
Duchess and other high fashionables used to play. Sheridan said that the Duchess and Martindale
had agreed that whatever they two won from each other should be sometimes double, sometimes
treble, what it was called. And Sheridan assured me that he had handed the Duchess into her
carriage when she was literally sobbing at her losses, she having lost fifteen hundred pounds,
when it was supposed to be only five hundred pounds." A life such as she then led surely affected
her appearance. In 1783, Walpole wrote: "The Duchess of Devonshire, the empress of fashion,
is no beauty at all. She was a very fine woman, with all the freshness of youth and health,
but verges fast to a coarseness."

The offspring of the Duchess Georgiana were: Georgiana Dorothy, afterwards Countess Carlisle,
whose letters were lately published, and exhibit an original observation and a terse style
of record; Henrietta Elizabeth, later Countess Granville; and a son, who succeeded to the Dukedom.
About the latter's birth was some mystery; insinuation was active. The Duchess had little liking
for domestic life, so normal neglect of child may have been construed into an unnatural dislike.
Her son never married. Through the stress of the home infelicity, her beauty waned; but her
bearing and breeding kept her paramount in her set. She is known to this later generation only
as a superb beauty who stands with such opulent charm of costume, and of fine hauteur of manner,
amid the noble groves of Chatsworth--as the once potential original of Gainsborough's greatest
portrait. "The bust outlasts the throne, the coin Tiberius."

A most pathetic tribute to the beauty of the Duchess was paid by "Peter Pindar" (Dr. Wolcot),
who addressed "A Petition to Time in favor of the Duchess of Devonshire," and implored the
Inexorable thus:--

   "Hurt not the form that all admire.
   Oh, never with white hairs her temple sprinkle!
   Oh, sacred be her cheek, her lip, her bloom!
   And do not, in a lovely dimple's room,
   Place a hard mortifying wrinkle.

   "Know shouldst thou bid the beauteous duchess fade,
   Thou, therefore, must thy own delights invade;
   And know, 't will be a long, long while
   Before thou givest her equal to our isle.
   Then do not with this sweet chef-d'oeuvre part,
   But keep to show the triumph of thy art."

A dramatic fate has befallen the original canvas. In 1875, it was sold at auction, and was
bought by a firm of dealers for the then highest price paid for a single picture in England.
The publicity gained by this was taken advantage of by the purchasers to exhibit the picture.
One morning when the gallery was opened, the frame only was there; the picture had vanished.
The canvas is lost.

LOVELY MARY CATHCART

Like the happiest countries that have no history, the tranquil life of joyous content leaves
little to chronicle. Only in the nobility of character of a husband who grieved her loss for
years, and in his strong dignity, and devotion to her memory, do we get a hint of the gracious
and good lady whom Gainsborough has made immortal for us.

And in that phrase of her lifetime, "lovely Mary Cathcart," is a whole biography of benignity
and beauty. She came of one of the most ancient and noble families in Scotland, and was the
daughter of the ninth Baron Cathcart, called "Cathcart of Fontenoy." Her brother William became
the tenth Baron, and afterwards the first Earl Cathcart. He had studied law, but abandoned
it for the army, and had a gallant career therein; becoming a lieutenant-general in 1801, and
commander-in-chief of the expedition to Copenhagen in 1807; afterwards acquiring reputation
as ambassador for several years at St. Petersburg. He was perhaps the earliest of British noblemen
to marry American beauties; having wedded the daughter of Andrew Elliott of New York, in 1779.

In November, 1774, there was rejoicing among the retainers of the House of Cathcart, for there
was to be a double wedding.

The second sister, the Hon. Mary, was married to Sir Thomas Graham of Balgowan, a descendant
of the Marquis of Montrose and of Graham of Claverhouse. The youngest sister, Louisa, later
became Countess of Mansfield, and her portrait, by Romney,--a seated profile figure with flowing
draperies,--is that artist's most masterly work.

After eighteen years of happy married life, she died childless; one of those good women that were--

   "True in loving all their lives,"--

"a surpassing spirit whose light adorned the world around it." Her husband grieved greatly.
He was ordered to travel to divert his despair. He visited Gibraltar, and there the dormant
martial spirit of his ancestors was aroused by his environment. Though then forty-three years
of age, he immediately entered the army as a volunteer. He rapidly rose in his profession,
and had an especially brilliant career in the Peninsular War. In 1811, he became the hero of
Barossa, and in the same year was made second in command to the Duke of Wellington. He was
created Lord Lynedoch of Balgowan, Perthshire, and frequently was thanked by Parliament for
his services. Sheridan said, "Never was there a loftier spirit in a braver heart." And alluding
to his services during the retreat to Corunna, he said, "Graham was their best adviser in the
hour of peril; and in the hour of disaster, their surest consolation." Scott eulogizes him
in the poem, "The Vision of Don Roderick," in the lines,--

   "Nor be his praise o'erpast who strove to hide
   Beneath the warrior's vest affection's wound,
   Whose wish Heaven for his country's weal denied;
   Danger and fate, he sought, but glory found.

   "From clime to clime, wher'e'r war's trumpets sound,
   The wanderer went; yet, Caledonia, still
   Thine was his thought in march and tented ground;
   He dreamed mid Alpine cliffs of Athole's hill,
   And heard in Ebro's roar his Lynedoch's lovely rill.

   "O hero of a race renowned of old,
   Whose war-cry oft has waked the battle swell!"

Old Dr. John Brown, of Edinburgh, wrote of a late Duke of Athole: "Courage, endurance, stanchness,
fidelity, and warmth of heart, simplicity, and downrightness, were his staples." They are ever
the staples of the Scotch character, and they were all pre-eminent in Sir Thomas. His life
was noble, and his affection was faithful to its early troth.

A pathetic history attaches to this picture of Mrs. Graham: When its subject died, the sorrowing
husband had it bricked up where it hung, and it was only by an accident that it was discovered
at his death, in 1843. It now hangs in the National Gallery of Scotland at Edinburgh. The present
reproduction shows but a part of the picture, the figure being full length. It has been excellently
reproduced in etching by both Flameng and Waltner.

In 1885, a most comprehensive exhibition of Gainsborough's works was made at the Grosvenor
Gallery in London. At it was noted the important part this painter had played in perpetuating
the lineaments, bearing, graces, and gownings of the great persons of the latter half of the
eighteenth century.

   "The lips that laughed an age agone,
   The fops, the dukes, the beauties all,
   Le Brun that sang and Carr that shone."

There was seen The Hon. Miss Georgiana Spencer, at the age of six, and again a later portrait
of her as the Duchess of Devonshire,--she of the then irresistibly seductive manners,--and
her mother, Countess Spencer, of whom Walpole wrote as being one of the beauties present at
the coronation of George III., in 1761. There, too, was Anne Luttrell, daughter of Simon Luttrell,
Baron Irnham, who married, first, Christopher Horton, and, secondly, the Duke of Cumberland,
brother of the king. And here was another widow who captivated royalty, Mrs. Fitzherbert, who
was a daughter of Walter Smythe of Bambridge, Hampshire, and married, first, Edward Weld, secondly,
Thomas Fitzherbert of Synnerton, Staffordshire (who died in 1781), and was said to have been
married to the Prince of Wales (George IV.) in 1785. And there also was a more notorious beauty,
Miss Grace Dalrymple, afterwards Mrs. Elliott,--though divorced later, and becoming the mistress
of various aristocrats, notably the Duke of Orleans.

The Duchess of Montagu, granddaughter of the great Duke of Marlborough (one of the Churchills,--a
family prolific of beauties), was there seen. Several pictures of the painter's wife (who was
a Miss Margaret Burr), of his youngest daughter, Mary, afterwards Mrs. Fischer, and one of
his friend, Miss Linley, went to augment this superb congregation of beauties shown. Portraits
of Garrick,--that intensely interesting Stratford portrait,--Earl Spencer, Pitt, Earl Stanhope,
Colonel St. Leger, George IV., Duke of Cumberland, George III., Earl Cathcart, Canning, Dr.
Johnson, Fox, and several showings of himself, made up a body of work unsurpassed in importance
by that of the president of the Academy himself.

Gainsborough was born in 1727; he moved to Bath, in its most brilliant period, in 1760. He
died in 1788, but had ceased contributing to the Academy four years before, because of a disagreement
with the hanging committee. His portraits of ladies were always picturesque and individual,
each differentiated from each of his own works as well as from that of other painters.

This portrait of the Hon. Mrs. Graham is delicate in color, yellowed somewhat by its long seclusion
from the light,--and will remain one of the most delightful and spirituel creations of the
old-English school.

Lady Hamilton

With the name of Lady Hamilton is ever associated the names of England's most famous sailor
and of one of her most famous painters. Hers was a life redolent of ill-repute. Though her
beauty was great, it served her for ill purposes; but she came by her lack of character by
heredity. She was born in 1761, the daughter of a female servant named Harte, and at the age
of thirteen was put to service as a nurse in the house of a Mr. Thomas of Hawarden, Flintshire.
She found tending children a tedious task, and forsook it. At sixteen, she went to London,
and became a lady's maid there. Her leisure time was spent in reading novels and plays, which
inspired a love for the drama. She early developed a rare ability for pantomimic representation;
and this became a favorite form of entertainment in drawing-rooms and studios. Her duties as
a domestic agreed not with the drama, so her next position was as barmaid in a tavern much
frequented by actors and artists. She formed the acquaintance of a Welsh youth, on whose being
impressed into the navy, she went to the captain to intercede for him. The boy was liberated,
but the comely intercessor was impressed into the service of the captain. From him she went
to live with a man of wealth; but her extravagance and wilfulness induced him to forego her
company. Then followed a period of the lowest street degradation. From this state she was taken
by a Dr. Graham, who was a lecturer upon health, and exhibited the finely-formed Emma as a
perfect specimen of female symmetry. She became the topic of the town. Painters, sculptors,
and others came to admire the shapely limbs shown under but a thin veil of gauze. The young
bloods of the time worshipped,--some not afar off; and one of them, Charles Greville, of the
Warwick family, who had essayed to educate her to become a fit companion for his elevated existence,
maintained her for about four years. It is recorded, that when he took her to Ranelagh's the
sensation was greater than had ever been produced by any other beauty there. Not the winsome
and witty Mrs. Crewe, nor her friend Mrs. Bouverie; not that first flame of the amorous Prince
of Wales, Mrs. Robinson, nor Anne Luttrell, also beloved of royalty; not the Marchioness of
Tavistock, whose loveliness has been preserved to us by Sir Joshua, nor the delightful Duchess
of Buccleugh; not Lady Cadogan, and not even the dashing Duchess of Devonshire herself,--caused
the comment and admiration this low-born unprincipled young woman now excited. Mr. Greville
would have married her had not his uncle, Sir William Hamilton, interfered. It is variously
stated that Sir William agreed to pay his nephew's debts if he would yield up his mistress;
and also that, in endeavoring to free the young man, the old gentleman himself fell into the
snare of her charms. "She is better than anything in Nature. In her own particular way she
is finer than anything that is to be found in Greek art," exclaimed this savant on first seeing
her. She was a most enchanting deceiver, and a finished actress in the parts of candor and
simplicity, so succeeded in marrying Sir William, in 1791. He was over sixty years of age,
a man of much classical and scientific erudition, and had been for many years ambassador at
the court of Naples, to which place he was soon accompanied by his bride. She became a favorite
with the queen, and a frequent visitor at the palace, also somewhat of a social success among
the British residents. She sang well, and made a specialty of showing herself in "attitudes,"
or what we term now "living pictures," for the delectation of her guests. "You never saw anything
so charming as Lady Hamilton's attitudes," wrote the Countess of Malmesbury to her sister,
Lady Elliot; "the most graceful statues or pictures do not give you an idea of them. Her dancing
the Tarantella is beautiful to a degree." It was here began that intimacy with Nelson which
became the great blot on his fair fame. He was then commanding the Agamemnon, and she became
his constant companion, and was sometimes useful to him as a political agent. After the victory
of Aboukir Bay, when Naples went wild in its enthusiastic reception of the naval hero, Lady
Hamilton shared the honors of the pageant. She accompanied him in a tour through Germany; and
most reprehensible was their conduct, at times, in defying the decencies of polite life. After
the Treaty of Amiens, Nelson, accompanied by Sir William and Lady Hamilton, retired to his
seat at Merton, in Surrey, and on the death of the ambassador, in 1803, he vainly endeavored
to procure an allowance from the government for the widow, on the pretext of the services she
had rendered the fleet in Sicily. Failing this, he himself granted her an annuity of twelve
hundred pounds. We all know how at Trafalgar, when the hero was dying, he spoke of "dear Lady
Hamilton, his guardian angel," and left to her all his belongings, and recommended her to the
grateful care of his country. Notwithstanding this, she died almost in poverty, in 1815. In
1813 she had been imprisoned for debt, and when out on bail she fled to Calais, and there the
career was closed. It was extraordinary that this woman should subjugate and hold in thrall
men of great force of character. She had great loveliness of person; but physical beauty alone
is ineffectual to charm such as these. Though not regularly educated, she acquired much general
knowledge, and was tactful in the display and use of it.

It was during the period of her posing for Dr. Graham, that Romney became enamoured of her
beauty, and painted for us more than a dozen important pictures of her. Those were the days
when ladies of rank and beauty were deified; and, following this fashion, Romney rendered "Fair
Emma" in many guises. Her ability in acting made her a most useful model. Her features had
much mobility, and were capable of expressing, with facility, all gradations of passion and
niceties of feeling. Emma took pride and pleasure in serving Romney. He repeated to his friend,
the poet Hayley, her request, that in the biography of the painter, Hayley would have much
to say of her. One of his earliest classical conceptions painted from her, was a full length
of Circe with her wand. Following this was a "Sensibility," which became the property of Hayley.
Though we remember Romney chiefly in connection with his Lady Hamiltons, yet he had acquired
his reputation and much fortune ere he met her. The great bulk of his portrayals of the nobility
preceded his classical subjects, which took form from his superb model. She was Cassandra;
she was Iphigenia, St. Cæcilia, Bacchante, Calope, The Spinstress, Joan of Arc, The Pythian
Princess Calypso, and Magdalene,--the two latter subjects painted to order for the then Prince
of Wales.

