Nearly Lost but Dearly Won

by the Reverend T.P. Wilson, M.A.

Wilson wrote several books around the end of the 1880s.  He had won a prize some ten years
previously for the best book assessed by The Band of Hope, a Society devoted to helping the
young never to take up drinking.  This present book gives you the impression that it might
well have been another one written to be entered into the competition. Anyway, if it was, it
didn't win.

It's quite a good story, but I think its trouble is, that it is neither a book that would appeal
directly to teenagers, which one supposes was its target audience, nor yet to young adults.
There is nothing like the amount of action we saw in "Frank Oldfield."

it is rather a short book, but one of its crowning glories is the set of ten line drawings
by "MDH".  These are really superb, full of action and life, particularly where there are children
or horses.  I wish all childrens' books were as well illustrated. NH

NEARLY LOST BUT DEARLY WON

BY THE REVEREND T.P. WILSON, M.A.

CHAPTER ONE.

ESAU TANKARDEW.

Certainly, Mr Tankardew was not a pattern of cleanliness, either in his house or his person.
Someone had said of him sarcastically, "that there was nothing clean in his house but his towels;"
and there was a great deal of truth in the remark.  He seemed to dwell in an element of cobwebs;
the atmosphere in which he lived, rather than breathed, was apparently a mixture of fog and
dust.  Everything he had on was faded-- everything that he had about him was faded--the only
dew that seemed to visit the jaded-looking shrubs in the approach to his dwelling was mildew.
Dilapidation and dinginess went hand-in-hand everywhere: the railings round the house were
dilapidated--some had lost there points, others came to an abrupt conclusion a few inches above
the stone-work from which they sprang; the steps were dilapidated--one of them rocked as you
set your foot upon it, and the others sloped inwards so as to hold treacherous puddles in wet
weather to entrap unwary visitors; the entrance hall was dilapidated; if ever there had been
a pattern to the paper, it had now retired out of sight and given place to irregular stains,
which looked something like a vast map of a desolate country, all moors and swamps; the doors
were dilapidated, fitting so badly, that when the front door opened a sympathetic clatter of
all the lesser ones rang through the house; the floors were dilapidated, and afforded ample
convenience for easy egress and ingress to the flourishing colonies of rats and mice which
had established themselves on the premises; and above all, Mr Tankardew himself was dilapidated
in his dress, and in his whole appearance and habits--his very voice was dilapidated, and his
words slipshod and slovenly.

And yet Mr Tankardew was a man of education and a gentleman, and you knew it before you had
been five minutes in his company.  He was the owner of the house he lived in, on the outskirts
of the small town of Hopeworth, and also of considerable property in the neighbourhood. Amongst
other possessions, he was the landlord of two houses of some pretensions, a little out in the
country, which were prettily situated in the midst of shrubberies and orchards.  In one of
these houses lived a Mr Rothwell, a gentleman of independent means; in the other a Mrs Franklin,
the widow of an officer, with her daughter Mary, now about fifteen years of age.

Mr Tankardew had settled in his present residence some ten years since. Why he bought it nobody
knew, nor was likely to know; all that people were sure of was that he had bought it, and pretty
cheap too, for it was not a house likely to attract any one who appreciated comfort or liveliness;
moreover, current report said that it was haunted.  Still, it was for sale, and it passed somehow
or other into Mr Tankardew's hands, and Mr Tankardew's hands and whole person passed into it;
and here he was now with his one old servant, Molly Gilders, a shade more dingy and dilapidated
than himself.  Several persons put questions to Molly about her master, but found it a very
discouraging business, so they gave up the attempt as hopeless, and it remained an unexplained
mystery why Mr Tankardew came to Hopeworth, and where he came from.  As for questioning the
old gentleman himself, no one had the hardihood to undertake it; and indeed he gave them little
opportunity, as he very rarely showed his face out of his own door; so rumour had to say what
it pleased, and among other things, rumour said that the old dressing-gown in which he was
ordinarily seen was never off duty, either day or night.

Mr Tankardew employed no agent, but collected his own rents; which he required to be paid to
himself half-yearly, in the beginning of January and July, at his own residence.

It was on one crisp, frosty, cheery January morning that Mr Rothwell, and his son Mark, a young
lad of eighteen, were ushered into Mr Tankardew's sitting-room; if that could be properly called
a sitting- room, in which nobody seemed ever to sit, to judge by the deep unruffled coating
of dust which reposed on every article, the chairs included. Respect for their own garments
caused father and son to stand while they waited for their landlord; but, before he made his
appearance, two more visitors were introduced, or rather let into the room by old Molly, who,
considering her duty done when she had given them an entrance into the apartment, never troubled
herself as to their further comfort and accommodation.

A strange contrast were these visitors to the old room and its furniture.  Mr Rothwell was
a tall and rather portly man with a pleasant countenance, a little flushed, indicating a somewhat
free indulgence in what is certainly miscalled "good living."  The cast of his features was
that of a person easy-going, good-tempered, and happy; but a line or two of care here and there,
and an occasional wrinkling up of the forehead showed that the surface was not to be trusted.
Mark, his son, was like him, and the very picture of good humour and light- heartedness; so
buoyant, indeed, that at times he seemed indebted to spirits something more than "animal."
But the brightness had not yet had any of the gilding rubbed off--everyone liked him, no one
could be dull where he was.  Mrs Franklin, how sweet and lovable her gentle face!  You could
tell that, whatever she might have lost, she had gained grace--a glow from the Better Land
gave her a heavenly cheerfulness. And Mary--she had all her mother's sweetness without the
shadow from past sorrows, and her laugh was as bright and joyous as the sunlit ripple on a
lake in summer time.

The Rothwells and Franklins, as old friends, exchanged a hearty but whispered greeting.

"I daren't speak out loud," said Mark to Mary, "for fear of raising the dust, for that'll set
me sneezing, and then good-bye to one another; for the first sneeze 'll raise such a cloud
that we shall never see each other till we get out of doors again."

"O Mark, don't be foolish!  You'll make me laugh, and we shall offend poor Mr Tankardew; but
it is very odd.  I never was here before, but mamma wished me to come with her, as a sort of
protection, for she's half afraid of the old gentleman."

"Your first visit to our landlord, I think?" said Mr Rothwell.

"Yes," replied Mrs Franklin.  "I sent my last half-year's rent by Thomas, but as there are
some little alterations I want doing at the house, and Mr Tankardew, I'm told, will never listen
to anything on this subject second-hand, I have come myself and brought Mary with me."

"Just exactly my own case," said Mr Rothwell; "and Mark has given me his company, just for
the sake of the walk.  I think you have never met our landlord?"

"No, never!--and I must confess that I feel considerably relieved that our interview will be
less private than I had anticipated."

Further conversation was interrupted by the entrance of Mr Tankardew himself.  He was tall
and very grey, with strongly-marked features, and deeply-furrowed cheeks and forehead.  His
eyes were piercing and restless, but there was a strange gentleness of expression about the
mouth, which might lead one, when viewing his countenance as a whole, to gather that he was
one who, though often deceived, must still trust and love.  He had on slippers and worsted
stockings, but neither of them were pairs.  He wore an old black handkerchief with the tie
half-way towards the back of his neck, while a very long and discoloured dressing-gown happily
shrouded from view a considerable portion of his lower raiment.

The room in which he met his tenants was thoroughly in keeping with its owner: old and dignified,
panelled in dark wood, with a curiously-carved chimneypiece, and a ceiling apparently adorned
with some historical or allegorical painting, if you could only have seen it.

How Mr Tankardew got into the room on the present occasion was by no means clear, for nobody
saw him enter.

Mark suggested to Mary, in a whisper, that he had come up through a trap door.  At any rate
he was there, and greeted his visitors without embarrassment.

"Sorry to keep you waiting," he muttered, "sorry to see you standing. Ah!  Dusty, I see;" and
with the long tail of his dressing-gown he proceeded to raise a cloud of dust from four massive
oak chairs, much to the disturbance of Mark's equanimity, who succeeded with some difficulty
in maintaining his gravity.  "Sorry," added Mr Tankardew, "to appear in this dishabille, must
excuse and take me as I am."

"Pray don't mention it," replied both his tenants, and then proceeded to business.

The rent had been paid and receipts duly given, when the old man raised his eyes and fixed
them on Mary's face.  She had been sitting back in the deep recess of a window, terribly afraid
of a mirthful explosion from Mark, and therefore drawing herself as far out of sight as possible;
but now a bright ray of sunshine cast itself full on her sweet, loving features, and as Mr
Tankardew caught their expression he uttered a sudden exclamation, and stood for a moment as
if transfixed to the spot.  Mary felt and looked half-confused, half-frightened, but the next
moment Mr Tankardew turned away, muttered something to himself, and then entered into the subject
of requested alterations.  His visitors had anticipated some probable difficulties, if not
a refusal, on the part of their landlord; but to their surprise and satisfaction he promised
at once to do all that they required: indeed he hardly seemed to take the matter in thoroughly,
but to have his mind occupied with something quite foreign to the subject in hand.  At last
he said,--

"Well, well, get it all done--get it all done, Mr Rothwell, Mrs Franklin--get it all done,
and send in the bills to me--there, there."

Again he fixed his eyes earnestly on Mary's face, then slowly withdrew them, and striding up
to the fireplace opened a panel above it, and disclosed an exquisite portrait of a young girl
about Mary's age. Nothing could be more striking than the contrast between the gloomy, dingy
hue of the apartment, and the vivid colouring of the picture, which beamed out upon them like
a rainbow spanning a storm-cloud.  Then he closed the panel abruptly, and turned towards the
company with a deep sigh.

"Ah!  Well, well," he said, half aloud; "well, good-morning, good- morning; when shall we meet
again?"

These last words were addressed to Mrs Franklin and her daughter.

"Really," replied the former, hardly knowing what to say, "I'm sure, I--"

Mr Rothwell came to the rescue.

"My dear sir, I'm sure I shall be very glad to see you at my house; you don't go into society
much; it'll do you good to come out a little; you'll get rid of a few of the cobwebs--from
your mind"--he added hastily, becoming painfully conscious that he was treading on rather tender
ground when he was talking about cobwebs.

"Wouldn't Mr Tankardew like to come to our juvenile party on Twelfth Night?" asked Mark with
a little dash of mischief in his voice, and a demure look at Mary.

Mrs Franklin bit her lips, and Mr Rothwell frowned.

"A juvenile party at your house?" asked Mr Tankardew, very gravely.

"Only my son's nonsense, you must pardon him," said Mr Rothwell; "we always have a young people's
party that night, of course you would be heartily welcome, only--"

"A juvenile party?" asked Mr Tankardew again, very slowly.

"Yes, sir," replied Mark, for the sake of saying something, and feeling a little bit of a culprit;
"twelfth cake, crackers, negus, lots of fun, something like a breaking-up at school.  Miss
Franklin will be there, and plenty more young people too."

"Something like a breaking-up," muttered the old man, "more like a breaking-down, I should
think--I'll come."

The effect of this announcement was perfectly overwhelming.  Mr Rothwell expressed his gratification
with as much self-possession as he could command, and named the hour.  Mrs Franklin checked
an exclamation of astonishment with some difficulty.  Poor Mary coughed her suppressed laughter
into her handkerchief; but as for Mark, he was forced to beat a hasty retreat, and dashed down
the stairs like a whirlwind.

The way home lay first down a narrow lane, into which they entered about a hundred yards from
Mr Tankardew's house.  Here the rest of the party found Mark behaving himself rather like a
recently-escaped lunatic: he was jumping up and down, then tossing his cap into the air, then
leaning back on the bank, holding his sides, and every now and then crying out while the tears
rolled over his cheeks.

"Oh dear!  Oh dear!  What shall I do?  Old Tanky's coming to our juvenile party."

CHAPTER TWO.

THE JUVENILE PARTY.

Let us look into two very different houses on the morning of January 6th.

Mr Rothwell's place is called "The Firs," from a belt of those trees which shelter the premises
on the north.

All is activity at "The Firs" on Twelfth-day morning.

It is just noon, and Mrs Rothwell and her daughters are assembled in the drawing-room making
elaborate preparations for the evening with holly, and artificial flowers and mottoes, and
various cunning and beautiful devices.  On a little table by the grand piano stands a tray
with a decanter of sherry, a glass jug filled (and likely to remain so) with water, and a few
biscuits.  Mrs Rothwell is lying back in an elegant easy-chair, looking flushed and languid.
Her three daughters, Jane, Florence, and Alice, are standing near her, all looking rather weary.

"What a bore these parties are!" exclaimed the eldest.  "I'm sick to death of them.  I shall
be tired out before the evening begins."

"So shall I," chimes in her sister Florence.  "I hate having to be civil to those odious little
frights, the Graysons, and their cousins.  Why can't they stay at home and knock one another's
heads about in the nursery?"

"Very aimiable of you I must say, my dears," drawls out Mrs Rothwell. "Come, you must exert
yourselves, you know it only comes once a year."

"Ay, once too often, mamma!"

"I'm sure," cries little Alice, "I shall enjoy the party very much: it'll be jolly, as Mark
says, only I wish I wasn't so tired just now: ah!  Dear me!"

"Oh!  Child, don't yawn!" says her mother; "you'll make me more fatigued than I am, and I'm
quite sinking now.  Jane, do just pour me out another glass of sherry.  Thank you, I can sip
a little as I want it.  Take some yourself, my dear, it'll do you good."

"And me too, mamma," cries Alice, stretching out her hand.

"Really, Alice, you're too young; you mustn't be getting into wanting wine so early in the
day, it'll spoil your digestion."

"Oh!  Nonsense, mamma!  Everybody takes it now; it'll do me good, you'll see.  Mark often gives
me wine; he's a dear good brother is Mark."

Mrs Rothwell sighs, and takes a sip of sherry: she is beginning to brighten up.

"What in the world did your father mean by asking old Mr Tankardew to the party to-night?"
she exclaims, turning to her elder daughters.

"Mean!  Mamma--you may well ask that: the old scarecrow!  They say he looks like a bag of dust
and rags."

"Mark says," cries her sister, "that he's just the image of a stuffed Guy Fawkes, which the
boys used to carry about London on a chair."

"Well, my dears, we must make the best of matters, we can't help it now."

"Oh!  I daresay it'll be capital fun," exclaims Alice; "I shall like to see Mark doing the
polite to `Old Tanky,' as he calls him."

"Come, Miss Pert, you must mind your behaviour," says Florence; "remember, Mr Tankardew is
a gentleman and an old man."

"Indeed, Miss Gravity, but I'm not going to learn manners of you; mamma pays Miss Craven to
teach me that, so good-bye;" and the child, with a mocking courtesy towards her sister, runs
out of the room laughing.

And now let us look into the breakfast-room of "The Shrubbery," as Mrs Franklin's house is called.

Mary and her mother are sitting together, the former adding some little adornments to her evening
dress, and the latter knitting.

"Don't you like Mark Rothwell, mamma?"

"No, my child."

"Oh!  Mamma!  What a cruelly direct answer!"

"Shouldn't I speak the direct truth, Mary?"

"Oh!  Yes, certainly the truth, only you might have softened it off a little, because I think
you must like some things in him."

"Yes, he is cheerful and good-tempered."

"And obliging, mamma?"

"I'm not so sure of that, Mary; self-indulgent people are commonly selfish people, and selfish
people are seldom obliging: a really obliging person is one who will cross his own inclination
to gratify yours, without having any selfish end in view."

"And you don't think Mark would do this, mamma?"

"I almost think not.  I like to see a person obliging from principle, and not merely from impulse:
not merely when his being obliging is only another form of self-gratification."

"But why should not Mark Rothwell be obliging on principle?"

"Well, Mary, you know my views.  I can trust a person as truly obliging who acts on Christian
principle, who follows the rule, `Look not everyone on his own things, but everyone also on
the things of others,' because he loves Christ.  I am afraid poor Mark has never learned to
love Christ."

Mary sighs, and her mother looks anxiously at her.

"My dearest child," she says, earnestly, "I don't want you to get too intimate with the young
Rothwells.  I am sure they are not such companions as your own heart would approve of."

"Why, no, mamma, I can't say I admire the way in which they have been brought up."

"Admire it!  Oh!  Mary, this is one of the crying sins of the day.  I mean the utter selfishness
and self-indulgence in which so many young people are educated; they must eat, they must drink,
they must talk just like their elders; they acknowledge no betters, they spurn all authority;
the holy rule, `Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right,' is quite out of
date with too many of them now."

"I fear it is so, mamma.  I don't like the girls much at `The Firs,' but I cannot help liking
Mark; I mean," she added, colouring, "as a light- hearted, generous, pleasant boy."  A silence
of a few moments, and then she looks up and says, timidly and lovingly, "If you think it better,
dearest mamma, I won't go to the party to-night."

"No, Mary, I would not advise that; I shall be with you, and I should like you to see and judge
for yourself.  I have every confidence in you. I do believe that you love your Saviour, and
loving Him, I feel sure that you will not knowingly enter into any very intimate acquaintance
with any one who has not the same hope; without which hope, my precious child, there may be
much amiability and attractiveness, but can be no solid and abiding happiness or peace."

Mary's reply is a child's earnest embrace and a whispered assurance of unchanging love to her
mother, and trust in her judgment.

Six o'clock.--Both drawing-rooms at "The Firs" were thrown into one, and brilliantly lighted
up.  Mysterious sounds in the dining-room below told of preparations for that part of the evening's
proceedings, by no means the least gratifying to the members of a juvenile party.  Friends
began to assemble: young boys and girls in shoals, the former dazzling in neckties and pins,
the latter in brooches and earrings: with a sprinkling of seniors.  The host, hostess, and
her daughters were all smiles; the last-named especially, unable, indeed, to give expression
to their satisfaction at having the happiness of receiving their dear young friends.  Mark
was there, of course, full of fun, and really enjoying himself, the life and soul of everything.

And now, when Mrs Franklin and Mary had just taken their seats and had begun to look around
them, the door was thrown widely open, and the servant announced in a loud voice, "Mr Esau
Tankardew!"

Every sound was instantly hushed, every head bent forward, every mouth parted in breathless
expectation.  Mark crept close up to Mary and squeezed his white gloves into ropes; the next
moment Mr Tankardew entered.

Marvellous transformation!  The faded garments had entirely disappeared. Was this the man of
dilapidation?  Yes, it was Mr Tankardew.  He was habited in a suit of black, which, though
not new, had evidently not seen much service; his trousers ceased at the knee, leaving his
silk stockings and shoes conspicuous.  No reproach could be cast on the purity of his white
neckcloth, nor on the general cleanliness of his person.  His greeting of the host and hostess,
though a little old- fashioned, was thoroughly easy and courteous, after which he begged them
to leave him to himself, and to give their undivided attention to the young, whose special
evening it was.  Curiosity once gratified, the suspended buzz of eager talk broke out again,
and allowed Mr Tankardew to make his way to Mrs Franklin and her daughter.  These he saluted
very heartily, and added, "Let an old man sit by you awhile, and watch the proceedings of the
young people, and realise if he possibly can that he was once young himself--ah yes!  Once
young," and he sighed deeply.

Fun and frolic were soon at their height.  Merry music struck up, and the larger of the two
drawing-rooms was cleared for a dance.  Mark hurried up to Mary.  "Come, Mary," he cried, "I
want you for a partner; we shall have capital fun; come along."

"Thank you," she replied; "I prefer to watch the others--at present, at any rate."

"Oh!  Nonsense!  You must come, there'll be no fun without you; it's very hot though, but there'll
be lots of negus presently."

"Mary will do her part by trying to amuse some of the very little ones," said her mother; "I
think that will be more to her taste."

"Oh!  Yes, dear mamma, that it will.  Thank you, Mark, all the same."

"Good, very good, very good," cried Mr Tankardew, in a low voice, and beating one hand gently
on the other; "keep to that, my child, keep to that."

Mark retired with a very bad grace, and Mary, slipping away from her mother's side, gathered
a company around her of the tinier sort, with glowing cheeks and very wide eyes, who were rather
scared by the more boisterous proceedings of those somewhat older; she amused them in a quiet
way, raising many a little happy laugh, and fairly winning their hearts.

"God bless her," muttered Mr Tankardew, when he had watched her for some time very attentively;
"very good, that will do, very good indeed; keep her to it, Mrs Franklin, keep her to it."

"She's a dear, good child," said her mother.

"Very true, madam; yes, dear and good; some are dear and bad--dear at any price.  I see some now."

Wine and negus were soon handed round; the tray was presented to Mary. Mr Tankardew lent forward
and bent a piercing look at her.  She declined, not at all knowing that he was watching her.

"Good again; very good, good girl, wise girl, prudent girl," he murmured to himself.

The tray now came to Mrs Franklin.  She took a glass of sherry.  Mr Tankardew's brow clouded.
"Ah!" he exclaimed, and moved restlessly on his chair.  The servant then approached him and
offered the contents of the tray, but he waved it off with an imperious gesture of his hand,
and did not vouchsafe a word.

The more boisterous party in the other room now became conscious of the presence of the wine
and negus, and rushed in, surrounding the maid who was bringing in a fresh supply.  Mark was
at the head of them, and tossed down two glasses in rapid succession.  The rest clamoured for
the strong drink with eager hands and outstretched arms.  "Give me some, give me some," was
uttered on all sides.  Self reigned paramount.

Mr Tankardew's tall form rose high above the edge of the struggling crowd, which he had approached.

"Poor things, poor things, poor things!" he said gloomily.

"A pleasant sight, these little ones enjoying themselves," said Mr Rothwell, coming up.

Mr Tankardew seemed scarcely to hear him, and returned to his place by Mrs Franklin.

"Enjoying themselves!" he exclaimed, in an undertone, "call it pampering the flesh, killing
the soul, and courting the devil."

"Rather hard upon the poor dear children," laughingly remarked a lady, who overheard him: "why,
surely you wouldn't deny them, their share of the enjoyment of God's good creatures?"

"God's good creatures, madam!  Are the wine and negus God's good creatures?"

"Certainly they are," was the reply: "God has permitted man to manufacture them out of the
fruits of the earth, and to make them the means of pleasurable excitement, and therefore surely
we may take them and give them as His good creatures."

Mr Tankardew made no answer, but striding up to Mary, where she sat with a circle of little
interesting faces round her, eagerly intent on some simple story she was telling them, he said,
"Miss Franklin, will you favour me by bringing me a few of your young friends here.  There,
now, my dear," (speaking to one of the little girls), "just hand me that empty negus glass."
The child did so, and Mr Tankardew, producing from his coat pocket a considerable sized bottle,
turned to the lady who had addressed him, and said:

"Madam, will you help me to dispense some of the contents of this bottle to these little children?"

"Gladly," she replied.  "I suppose it is something very good, such as little folks like."

"It is one of God's good creatures, madam:" saying which, he turned towards the other's astonished
gaze the broad label on which was printed in great black letters, "Laudanum--Poison."

"My dear sir, what do you mean?"

"I mean, madam, that the liquid in this bottle is made from the poppy, which is one of the
fruits of the earth; therefore it is one of God's good creatures, just as the wine and negus
are.  It produces very pleasurable sensations, too, if you take it, just as they do; therefore
it is right to indulge in it, and give it to others, just as it is right for the same reasons
to indulge in wine and negus and spirits, and to give them to others."

"I really don't understand you, sir."

"Don't you, madam?  I think you won't be able to pick a hole in my argument."

"Ah!  But this liquid is poison!"

