Ingram met the Middlesex threat by sending Gregory Wakelett out with a body of horse. But when
he arrived he found that the enemy had dispersed. Nor were Smith's loyalists more resolute.
As they faced Ingram's force a certain Major Bristow stepped out of the ranks and offered to
try the justice of the governor's cause after the manner of the Middle Ages by single combat.
Ingram himself would have accepted the challenge, but his men caught him by the arm and pulled
him back. As it turned out there was no battle, for the rank and file of the so-called loyal
forces tamely laid down their arms and went home.

A raid on the right bank of the York also ended in failure. Berkeley decided to send Captain
Hubert Farrill with a strong force to surprise the garrison at King's Creek. It was planned
to drive in the sentries and to "enter pell mell with them into the house." But they were met
by such a deadly fire that they fell back under the shelter of the outbuildings, and then fled
to their boats. Farrill was left dead, his commission "dropping wet with blood in his pocket."

But the colony was now in a deplorable condition. Many plantations had been deserted, others
had been plundered by the rebels, Ingram had not been able to keep order, there was no money
to meet governmental expenses, the desertion of servants and slaves to the rebels, and the
absence from the fields of so many small farmers had caused a shortage of the tobacco and corn
crops, many houses had been burned, the courts in some of the counties were closed. The rebel
officers could not restrain their rough soldiers from wanton destruction--throwing down fences,
destroying crops, burning barns. Soon the longing for peace and order became general. Time
was working for the governor.

However, it was known that Colonel Herbert Jeffreys with 1000 men had been ordered to go to
Virginia to suppress the rebellion, and their arrival was expected at any moment.

In the meanwhile the tobacco ships began to come in with needed supplies of clothing, cloth,
medicines, etc. The planters still had some hogsheads of tobacco on hand, and were anxious
to resume trade with the merchants, but when Berkeley issued a proclamation threatening to
denounce as a rebel anyone who traded with the Western Shore the shippers held back. So the
planters realized that the weapon of economic pressure, of which Goode had warned Bacon, was
to be applied against them.

And they must have been discouraged when, in November, the ship Concord of 500 tons, armed
with 30 guns and commanded by Thomas Grantham, entered through the capes and anchored in the
York river. Lawrence wrote Grantham a letter telling him that the people had been grievously
oppressed and begging him and the merchants to remain neutral. Otherwise they were determined
to burn their tobacco. Grantham replied that he would not treat with men who had taken up arms
against the royal authority.

But he did offer his services to effect a reconciliation. Sending a boat for Berkeley, he received
him on board the Concord, where he tried to persuade him "to meekness," pointing out that an
unrelenting temper would only drive the rebels to a desperate resistance. Meekness was something
far from Berkeley's heart, but he was desperately anxious to end the rebellion before the redcoats
arrived. Then he could tell the King that he, unassisted, had restored order. To accomplish
this he was even willing to forego the satisfaction of hanging some of the leaders of the rebellion,
provided Lawrence and Drummond were not among them.

So he sent Grantham up the river to the Pate house, where he found Ingram with about 800 men.
After prolonged negotiations Ingram yielded and surrendered West Point together with 300 men,
four great guns, and many small arms.

Grantham then went to Colonel John West's house, where he found a garrison of about 400 English
and Negroes. They accused him of betraying them, and some were for shooting him, others for
cutting him in pieces. But after he had put them in better humor with a barrel of brandy they
"surrendered the post, with three cannon, 500 muskets and fowling pieces, and 1000 pounds of
bullets."

Grantham now delivered Ingram, Colonel Langston, and other rebel officers to Berkeley, who
at once pardoned them. He next went to Ingram's house, marched the garrison there down to Tindall's
Point, took their arms, drums, and colors, and gave them the oath of allegiance. After the
men had toasted the King and the governor, they gave three shouts and dispersed. We may judge
the extent of Berkeley's elation at the collapse of the rebellion by the fact that he invited
Ingram and Langston to dine with him on shipboard.

But Gregory Wakelett, one of the most active of the rebel leaders, was still at large with
a force of cavalry. So anxious was Berkeley to secure his submission that he promised him,
not only his pardon, but part of the wampum his men had taken from the Indians. So he too "declared
for the King." When other posts on the James and the York were surrendered or abandoned, Lawrence,
Drummond, and Whaley, with a force of several hundred men, were all that were left of the rebel
army. They well knew that for them there would be no mercy. But as they retreated into New
Kent their men began to fall off until they were entirely deserted.

Lawrence and Whaley with three others determined to risk torture at the hands of the Indians
rather than fall into the hands of the governor. They were last seen on the extreme frontier,
pushing on through the snow into the forest. We shall probably never know their fate. They
may have died of hunger and exposure, they may have been killed by the Indians; it is barely
possible that they found refuge in one of the northern colonies.

But though the fate of Lawrence and Whaley is shrouded in mystery, that of many others is known.
The enraged governor drew up a long list of those he had marked for the gallows. When the reports
of Berkeley's savagery reached Charles II, he is said to have remarked "That old fool has hanged
more men in that naked country than I have for the murder of my father."

Drummond was found hiding in Chickahominy Swamp and brought before the governor at King's Creek.
However, he decided to give him at least the pretence of a trial. But his ring was snatched
from his finger, his clothes taken from his back, and he was kept overnight in irons. The next
morning he was forced to walk, still in irons, in bitterly cold weather, all the way to Middle
Plantation. There, after a brief hearing, in which he was not allowed to defend himself, he
was hurried away to the scaffold. His widow and five children were driven out of their house
and forced to flee into the woods and swamps, where they came near starvation.

When Anthony Arnold, who was one of the sturdiest supporters of the rebellion, was brought
into court, he boldly defended the right of the people to resist oppression. "It is well known
that I have no kindness for Kings," he told the court. "They have no rights but what they got
by conquest and the sword, and he that can by force of the sword deprive them of it has as
good and just a title to it as the King himself. If the King should deny to do me right I would
make no more to sheathe my sword in his heart or bowels than of my mortal enemies." The court
was sorry that the country was not "capable of executing the sentence peculiar to traitors
according to the laws and custom of England." This was to hang the victim for several minutes,
cut him down when still alive, rip him open, cut off his head, and then quarter him. So they
contented themselves with hanging him in chains, "to be a more remarkable example than the rest."

The executions continued for several months. Thomas Young, James Wilson, Henry Page, and Thomas
Hall were executed on January 12, 1677; William Drummond and John Baptista on January 20; James
Crews, William Cookson, and John Digbie on January 24; Giles Bland and Anthony Arnold on March
8; John Isles and Richard Pomfrey on March 15; and John Whitson and William Scarburgh on March
16. There is no telling how many Berkeley might have hanged had not the Assembly asked him to stop.

The people were deeply angered at the governor's brutality. Governor Notley thought that "were
there any person bold and courageous in Virginia that dared venture his neck, the commons of
Virginia would enmire themselves as deep in rebellion as ever they did in Bacon's time." And
for months in hundreds of humble cottages men were on the lookout for the return of Lawrence,
ready to seize their arms and follow him in a new uprising.

There was no hope of relief from the new Assembly which met at Green Spring, February 20, 1677.
William Sherwood said that most of the Burgesses were the governor's "own creatures and chose
by his appointments." Jeffreys testified that they had been "not so legally nor freely chosen,"
and that the "Council, Assembly, and people" were "overawed" by Berkeley. That Berkeley allowed
such an Assembly to re-enact in substantially the same form several of Bacon's laws, shows
that he was not entirely deaf to the rumblings of a new rebellion. At the same time he ordered
Berkeley to return to England "with all possible speed." During his absence Jeffreys was to
act in his place with the title of Lieutenant Governor. With them came the redcoats.

No sooner had the commissioners arrived than Berkeley became involved in a bitter quarrel with
them. When they told him to obey the King's orders to come to England, he made excuses to linger
until he had taken his revenge on the rebels. Jeffreys brought with him a proclamation pardoning
all the rebels with the sole exception of Bacon, but when Berkeley published it he had the
audacity to exempt from it not only two men who had died during the war, fourteen who had already
been executed, and twenty-six others whom he mentioned by name, but all those "now in prison
for rebellion or under bond for the same." Of those in prison and not mentioned by name in
the proclamation Robert Stoakes, John Isles, Richard Pomfrey, John Whitson, and William Scarburgh
were later executed.

Berkeley was also determined to make good his personal losses from the estates of the rebels.
"I have lost at least £8000 sterling in houses, goods, plantation, servants, and cattle, and
never expect to be restored to a quarter of it," he complained. The rebels left "me not one
grain of corn, not one cow.... I have not £5 in the world." So he, Beverley, Philip Ludwell,
and others of the "loyal party," were furious when Jeffreys insisted that they stop breaking
open and plundering the houses and barns of the former rebels, and take their complaints to
the courts.

For three months Berkeley postponed his departure, but at last, on April 25, he went on board
the Rebecca, the vessel which had been of such vital importance to him during the rebellion,
and set sail for England. But he was now a very ill man. "He came here alive but ... unlike
to live," wrote Secretary Coventry. He died on July 13, 1677, and was interred at Twickenham.

With the death of Berkeley a main cause of discontent and insubordination in Virginia was removed.
Though Culpeper and Effingham, who succeeded in turn to the governorship, made onslaughts on
the liberties of the people, they acted, not from any overwhelming desire to make themselves
absolute, but because they reflected the spirit of the Second Stuart Despotism. But this came
to an end with the Glorious Revolution of 1688-89, and from that time to the passage of the
Stamp Act, the people of Virginia had no need to take arms to defend their liberties. For decades
after Bacon's Rebellion, the King and the governors were wary of bearing down upon them too
hard for fear of causing another uprising. For the time they had learned their lesson. And
had they not forgotten it after the lapse of a century, there might have been no American Revolution.

When one reviews the tragic events in Virginia during the fateful year of 1676, one may well
ask: "Would the rebellion have occurred had there been no Indian war?" Possibly not. Berkeley
was aging and within a few years he might have died, and a less despotic governor taken his
place. Had the planters waited, their lot would have been bettered by the rising price of tobacco.
On the other hand, it is possible that if the war had not touched off the rebellion something
else would have done so.

Would the Indian war have started the rebellion had the mass of the people had no other grievances?
This seems unlikely. And so it would have been past belief had there been no grievance or oppression.

Had the dispute between Bacon and Berkeley as to how the war should be conducted been all there
was at issue, the people would hardly have risen in wild anger to overthrow the government,
drive the governor into exile, defy the King, make ready to resist his forces, and risk death
on the gallows. Philip Ludwell said that the rebel army was made up of men "whose condition
... was such that a change could not make worse." Had not the English trade laws, misgovernment,
and injustice practically eliminated the middle class there would have been hundreds to whom
the maintaining of law and order was the first consideration. They would have supported Berkeley's
Indian policy, however unwise, rather than risk their estates. As it was, the governor found
himself practically deserted. Never before was there "so great a madness as this base people
are generally seized with," he complained.

No one will contend that the firing on Fort Sumter was the cause of the War between the States,
or that the murder of the Archduke Ferdinand was the cause of the first World War. These were
but the matches thrown into the powder kegs. The kegs had been filling up for many years, and
sooner or later explosions were inevitable. So in Virginia had there been no powder keg, the
lighted match of the Indian war would probably have flickered and burnt itself out.

In most great upheavals men have mixed motives. Of course Bacon and his men rose in arms partly
to protect themselves and their families from the Indians. They said so repeatedly. But we
have abundant evidence from both sides that they were determined also to put an end to oppression
and misgovernment. "As for Bacon's designs of prosecuting the Indian war it is most evident
that he never intended anything more in it than a covert under which to act all his villanies,"
wrote Philip Ludwell. "If these had not been the chief motives they had certainly understanding
enough to have led them a fairer way to presenting their grievances than on their swords' points."

The Council, in a long statement, written when the uprising was but a few weeks old, declared
that Bacon's "only aim has always been and is nothing else but of total subversion of the government."
Thomas Ludwell and Robert Smith, who at the time were in England, on receiving reports of the
rebellion, said that when the Indian raids began "some idle and poor people made use of the
present conjunction for their ill designs." William Sherwood, an eyewitness of what took place,
testified that "it is most true that the great oppressions and abuses of the people by the
governor's arbitrary will hath been the cause of the late troubles there." Colonel Jeffreys,
who was commissioned by the King to investigate the causes of the uprising, put the blame,
not on the Indian war, but upon Philip Ludwell and Robert Beverley, who "were the great advisors
of Berkeley, and as it may be proved were the chief causes of the miseries that befell the
country in the rebellion."

Governor Notley, of Maryland, stated that "whatever palliations the great men of Virginia may
use at the Council board in England ... yet you may be sure ... much ... if not every tittle
of the accusations against them is truth." If the new governor, Colonel Herbert Jeffreys should
"build his proceedings upon the old foundation, 'tis neither him nor all his Majesty's soldiers
in Virginia will either satisfy or rule those people. They have been strangely dealt with by
their former magistracy." Just two days later Nicholas Spencer wrote that though the rebellion
was over, "the putrid humors of our unruly inhabitants are not so allayed but that they do
frequently vent themselves ... and were they not awed by the overruling hand of his Majesty
would soon express themselves by violent acts."

As for Bacon, he had been in command of the frontier forces but a few days when he sent messengers
to every part of the colony to blast Berkeley's misgovernment. The Council reported to the
Board of Trade that he had traduced the governor "with many false and scandalous charges."
Later, in manifesto after manifesto, Bacon assailed the corruption, the inefficiency, and the
injustices of Berkeley's regime. "We appeal to the country itself what and of what nature their
oppressions have been, and by what cabals ... carried on." By taking on himself "the sole nominating"
of civil and military officers he had made himself master of the colony. He had permitted his
favorites "to lay and impose what levies and impositions upon us they should or did please,
which they for the most part converted to their own private lucre and gain." As for seeking
relief by petitioning the Burgesses, he said: "Consider what hope there is of redress in appealing
to the very persons our complaints do accuse."

Thomas Mathews tells us that it was "the received opinion in Virginia" that the Indian war
was the excuse for Bacon's Rebellion rather than the cause. Since Mathews took part in the
uprising and later wrote an account of it, he should know. He even goes so far as to say that
it was Thomas Lawrence, not Bacon, who was chiefly responsible for the uprising. Bacon "was
too young," he points out, "too much a stranger there, and of a disposition too precipitate
to manage things to that length they were carried, had not thoughtful Mr. Lawrence been at
the bottom."

This man had his personal grievance, Mathews states, for he had been cheated out of a "considerable
estate on behalf of a corrupt favorite." His wife kept a tavern at Jamestown, which gave him
an opportunity to meet persons from all parts of the colony. So he filled their ears with complaints
of the governor. Mathews himself had heard him suggest "some expedient not only to repair his
great loss, but therewith to see those abuses rectified that the country was oppressed with
through ... the forwardness, avarice, and French despotic methods of the governor." As for
Bacon and his adherents, they "were esteemed as but wheels agitated by the weight" of Lawrence's
resentments, after their rage had been raised to a high pitch by Berkeley's failure to put
a stop to the effusions of blood by the Indians.

