The tempest which Alexander Macdonell had presaged burst upon the colony soon after this demolition
of Fort Gibraltar.  The {88} incidents leading up to an outbreak of hostilities have been narrated
by Pierre Pambrun, a French Canadian.  In April Pambrun had been commissioned by Governor Semple
to go to the Hudson's Bay fort on the Qu'Appelle river.  Hard by this was the Nor'westers'
trading-post, called Fort Qu'Appelle.  Pambrun remarks upon the great number of half-breeds
who had gathered at the North-West Company's depot.  Many of them had come from a great distance.
Some were from the upper Saskatchewan; others were from Cumberland House, situated near the
mouth of the same river.  Pambrun says that during the first days of May he went eastward along
with George Sutherland, a factor of the Hudson's Bay Company on the Qu'Appelle, and a number
of Sutherland's men.  The party journeyed in five boats, and had with them twenty-two bales
of furs and six hundred bags of pemmican.  On May 12 they were attacked on their way down the
river by an armed force of forty-nine Nor'westers, under the leadership of Cuthbert Grant and
Peter Pangman. All were made prisoners and conducted back to Fort Qu'Appelle, where they were
told by Alexander Macdonell that the seizure had been {89} made because of Colin Robertson's
descent upon Fort Gibraltar.  After five days' imprisonment George Sutherland and the servants
of the Hudson's Bay Company were released.  This did not mean, however, any approach of peace.
Pierre Pambrun was still held in custody.  Before the close of May Macdonell caused the furs
and provisions which his men had purloined from Sutherland's party to be placed in boats, and
he began to move down the Qu'Appelle, taking Pambrun with him.  A band of Bois Brûlés on their
horses kept pace with the boats.  At the confluence of the Qu'Appelle and the Assiniboine Macdonell
made a speech to a body of Saulteaux, and endeavoured to induce some of them to join his expedition
to the Red River.  The Hudson's Bay post of Brandon House, farther along the Assiniboine, was
captured by Cuthbert Grant, with about twenty-five men under his command, and stripped of all
its stores.  Then the combined force of half-breeds, French Canadians, and Indians, in round
numbers amounting to one hundred and twenty men, advanced to Portage la Prairie.  They reached
this point on or about June 16, and proceeded to make it a stronghold.  They arranged bales
of {90} pemmican to form a rude fortification and planted two brass swivel-guns for defence.
They were preparing for war, for the Nor'westers had now resolved finally to uproot Lord Selkirk's
colony from the banks of the Red River.

{91}

CHAPTER IX

SEVEN OAKS

In the meantime, far removed from the Red River, other events bearing upon this story were
happening.  The Earl of Selkirk had had many troubles, and early in 1815 he was again filled
with anxiety by news received in Scotland concerning the imperilled condition of Assiniboia.
In consequence of these evil tidings he was led to petition Lord Bathurst, secretary for War
and the Colonies in the administration of Lord Liverpool, and to ask that some protection should
be afforded his colonists, who were loyal subjects of the crown.  Lord Bathurst acted promptly.
He wrote in March to Sir Gordon Drummond, administrator of the government of Canada, saying
that Lord Selkirk's request should be granted and that action should be taken in Canada to
protect the colony.  But Sir Gordon Drummond, after looking into the matter, decided not to
grant the protection which {92} Selkirk desired.  He had reasons, which he sent to the British
minister.

By this time the affairs of his colony had come to such a sorry pass that Lord Selkirk felt
it necessary to travel to America.  Accordingly, in the autumn of 1815, he embarked for New
York, accompanied by Lady Selkirk and his three children, Dunbar, Isabella, and Katherine.
Arriving on November 15, he heard for the first time of the overthrow of his colony through
the machinations of Duncan Cameron and Alexander Macdonell.  At once he hastened to Montreal,
where he received from eye-witnesses a more detailed version of the occurrence.  Many of the
settlers brought to the east were indignant at the treatment they had received at the hands
of the Nor'westers and were prepared to testify against them.  In view of this, Lord Selkirk
applied to magistrates at York (Toronto) and Montreal, desiring that affidavits should be taken
from certain of the settlers with respect to their experiences on the Red River.  In this way
he hoped to accumulate a mass of evidence which should strengthen his plea for military assistance
from the Canadian government.  Among those whom Selkirk met in Montreal was {93} Miles Macdonell.
The former governor of Assiniboia was then awaiting trial on charges brought against him by
officers of the North-West Company. He was never tried, however, for the charges were dropped
later on.

In November Lord Selkirk saw Sir Gordon Drummond and urged that help be sent to Assiniboia.
From this time until the expiration of Drummond's term of office (May 1816) a correspondence
on this question was kept up between the two men.  No steps, however, were taken by Drummond
to accede to Selkirk's wishes, nor did he inform Selkirk officially why his requests were denied.
During the winter news of the restoration of the colony was brought to Selkirk by a French
Canadian named Laguimonière, who had travelled two thousand miles on foot with the information.
On receipt of this news Selkirk became even more urgent in his appeals for armed assistance.
'If, however, your Excellency,' he wrote to Drummond on April 23, 'persevere in your intention
to do nothing till you receive further instructions, there is a probability almost amounting
to a certainty that another season must be lost before the requisite force can be sent up--during
another year the settlers must remain exposed to {94} attack, and there is every reason to
expect that in consequence of this delay many lives may be lost.'

Lord Selkirk wished to send a message of encouragement to his people in the colony.  Laguimonière,
the wonderful Canadian wood-runner, would carry it.  He wrote a number of letters, telling
of his arrival in Canada, giving assurance of his deep concern for the settlement's welfare,
and promising to come to the aid of the colonists as soon as the rivers were free of ice, with
whatever force he could muster. Bearing these letters, the messenger set out on his journey
over the wild spaces between Montreal and the Red River.  In some way his mission became known
to the Nor'westers at Fort William, for on June 3 Archibald Norman M'Leod, a partner of the
North-West Company, issued an order that Selkirk's courier should be intercepted.  Near Fond
du Lac, at the western end of Lake Superior, Laguimonière was waylaid and robbed.  The letters
which he carried were taken to Fort William, where several of them were found later.

As we have seen in the last chapter, it was in this same month that Alexander Macdonell, at
Portage la Prairie, was organizing his {95} half-breeds for a raid on Fort Douglas.  His brigade,
as finally made up, consisted of about seventy Bois Brûlés, Canadians, and Indians, all well
armed and mounted.  As soon as these troopers were ready to advance, Macdonell surrendered
the leadership to Cuthbert Grant, deeming it wise not to take part in the raid himself.  The
marauders then marched out in the direction of the settlement.

The settlers in the meantime were not wholly oblivious of the danger threatening them.  There
was a general feeling of insecurity in the colony, and a regular watch had been instituted
at Fort Douglas to guard against a surprise attack.  Governor Semple, however, did not seem
to take a very serious view of the situation.  He was about to depart to York Factory on business.
But a rough awakening came.  On June 17 two Cree Indians arrived at Fort Douglas with the alarming
tidings that in two days an attack would be made upon the settlement.[1]

About five o'clock in the afternoon of June 19, a boy who was stationed in the {96} watch-house
of the fort cried out that he saw a party of half-breeds approaching.  Thereupon Governor Semple
hurried to the watch-house and scanned the plains through a glass.  He saw a troop of horsemen
moving towards the Red River--evidently heading for a point some distance to the north of Fort
Douglas.

'We must go out to meet these people,' said Governor Semple: 'let twenty men follow me.'

There was a prompt response to the call, and Semple led his volunteers out of the fort and
towards the advancing horsemen.  He had not gone far when he met a number of colonists, running
towards Fort Douglas and shouting in wild excitement:

'The half-breeds! the half-breeds!'

Governor Semple now sent John Bourke back to Fort Douglas for one of the guns, and instructed
him to bring up whatever men could be spared from among those garrisoning the fort.  The advance
party halted to wait until these should arrive; but at length Semple grew impatient and ordered
his men to advance without them.  The Nor'westers had concealed themselves behind a clump of
trees.  As Semple approached they galloped out, extended their line into a half-moon {97} formation,
and bore down to meet him.  They were dressed as Indian warriors and painted in hideous fashion.
The force was well equipped with guns, knives, bows and arrows, and spears.

A solitary horseman emerged from the hostile squadron and rode towards Governor Semple.  This
was François Boucher, a French-Canadian clerk in the employ of the North-West Company, son
of a tavern-keeper in Montreal.  Ostensibly his object was to parley with the governor. Boucher
waved his hand, shouting aloud:

'What do you want?'

Semple took his reply from the French Canadian's mouth.  'What do you want?' he questioned
in plainer English.

'We want our fort,' said Boucher.

'Go to your fort,' answered Semple.

'Why did you destroy our fort, you d--d rascal?' exclaimed the French Canadian.

The two were now at close quarters, and Governor Semple had seized the bridle of Boucher's horse.

'Scoundrel, do you tell me so?' he said.

Pritchard says that the governor grasped Boucher's gun, no doubt expecting an attack upon his
person.  The French Canadian leapt {98} from his horse, and at this instant a shot rang out
from the column of the Nor'westers.  Lieutenant Holt, a clerk in the colony's service, fell
struggling upon the ground.  Boucher ran in the direction of his own party, and soon there
was the sound of another musket.  This time Governor Semple was struck in the thigh.  He called
at once to his men:

'Do what you can to take care of yourselves.'

The band ignored this behest, and gathered round him to ascertain the extent of his injury.
The Nor'westers now began to bring the two ends of their column together, and soon Semple's
party was surrounded.  The fact that their foe was now helpless did not keep the Nor'westers
from pouring in a destructive fire.  Most of Semple's men fell at the first volley.  The few
left standing pulled off their hats and begged for mercy.  A certain Captain Rogers hastened
towards the line of the Nor'westers and threw up his hands.  He was followed by John Pritchard.
One of the Bois Brûlés shot Rogers in the head and another rushed on him and stabbed him with
a knife.  Luckily Pritchard was confronted by a French Canadian, named {99} Augustin Lavigne,
whom he had formerly known and who now protected him from butchery.

The wounded governor lay stretched upon the ground.  Supporting his head with his hand, he
addressed Cuthbert Grant:

'I am not mortally wounded,' he said, 'and if you could get me conveyed to the fort, I think
I should live.'

Grant promised to comply with the request.  He left the governor in charge of one of his men
and went away, but during his absence an Indian approached and shot Semple to death.

Meanwhile John Bourke had gone back for a field-piece and for reinforcements.  Bourke reached
the fort, but after he had placed the small cannon in a cart he was permitted by those in the
fort to take only one man away with him.  He and his companion began to drag the cart down
the road.  Suddenly they were startled by the sound of the musketry fire in the distance which
had struck down Semple's party. Fearing lest they might lose the gun, the pair turned back
towards the fort.  On their way they were met by ten men from Fort Douglas, hurrying to the
scene of the conflict.  Bourke told his {100} comrade to take the field-piece inside the fort,
and himself joined the rescue party.  But they were too late: when they arrived at the scene
of the struggle they could effect nothing.

'Give up your arms,' was the command of the Nor'westers.

The eleven men, seeing that resistance on their part would be useless, took to their heels.
The Nor'westers fired; one of the fleeing men was killed and John Bourke was severely wounded.
For the numbers engaged the carnage was terrible.  Of the party which had left Fort Douglas
with Governor Semple there were but six survivors.  Michael Heden and Daniel M'Kay had run
to the riverside during the mêlée.  They succeeded in getting across in a canoe and arrived
at Fort Douglas the same night.  Michael Kilkenny and George Sutherland escaped by swimming
the river.  In addition to John Pritchard, another prisoner, Anthony Macdonell, had been spared.
The total number of the dead was twenty-three.  Among the slain were Rogers, the governor's
secretary, Doctor Wilkinson, Alexander M'Lean, the most enterprising settler in the colony,
and Surgeon James White.  The Irish colonists suffered severely in proportion to their number:
they lost {101} seven in all. The Nor'westers had one man killed and one wounded.  This sanguinary
encounter, which took place beside the highway leading along the Red River to Frog Plain, is
known as the massacre of Seven Oaks.

There was much disappointment among the Nor'westers when they learned that Colin Robertson
was not in the colony.  Cuthbert Grant vowed that Robertson would have been scalped had he
been captured.  'They would have cut his body into small bits,' said Pritchard, 'and boiled
it afterwards for the dogs.'  Pritchard himself was carried as a prisoner to Frog Plain, where
the Nor'westers made their encampment.  A savage spirit had been aroused.  Pritchard found
that even yet the lust for blood had not been sated, and that it would be necessary to plead
for the wives and children of the colonists.  He remonstrated with Cuthbert Grant and urged
him not to forget that the women of the settlement were of his dead father's people.  At length
the half-breed leader softened, and agreed that Pritchard should act as a mediator.  Grant
was willing that the settlers should go in peace, if the public property of the colony were
given up.  Pritchard made three trips between Grant's headquarters and the fort {102} before
an agreement was reached.  'On my arrival at the fort,' he said, 'what a scene of distress
presented itself!  The widows, children and relations of the slain, in horrors of despair,
were lamenting the dead,[2] and were trembling for the safety of the survivors.'

On the morning of June 20 Cuthbert Grant himself, with over a score of his followers, went
to Fort Douglas.  It was then agreed that the settlers should abandon their homes and that
the fort should be evacuated.  An inventory was made of the goods of the colony, and the terms
of surrender were signed by Cuthbert Grant as a clerk and representative of the North-West
Company.  Contrary to Grant's promises, the private effects of the colonists were overhauled
and looted.  Michael Heden records that even his clothes and blankets were stolen.

On the evening of the same day a messenger presented himself at Portage la Prairie bringing
Alexander Macdonell an account of the massacre. Pierre Pambrun declares that {103} Macdonell
and others who were with him became hilarious with joy.  'Good news,' shouted Macdonell in
French, as he conveyed the tidings to his associates.

Again disaster had overtaken Lord Selkirk's plans.  The second desolation of his colony and
expulsion of his colonists occurred on June 22, 1816.  The evicted people set out in canoes
down the Red River.  Michael Heden and John Bourke both declared that the number of those who
embarked was approximately two hundred.  This total would appear, however, to be much too large,
unless additions had been made to the colony of which we have no documentary evidence.  Some
French-Canadian families had settled at 'the Forks,' it is true, but these were not numerous
enough to bring the population of the settlement to two hundred persons, leaving uncounted
the number who had lately perished.

On June 24, as the exiles were proceeding down the river, they met nine or ten canoes and one
bateau.  In these were almost a hundred armed Nor'westers under the command of Archibald Norman
M'Leod of Fort William.  M'Leod's purpose was apparently to assist in the extermination of
the colony.  His first question of the party travelling {104} northward was 'whether that rascal
and scoundrel Robertson was in the boats.'  When he was told of the calamity which had befallen
Governor Semple and his band, he ordered all the exiles ashore.  By virtue of his office as
a magistrate for the Indian Territories he wished to examine them.[3]

He searched the baggage belonging to the evicted settlers and scrutinized their books and papers.
'Those who play at bowls,' remarked 'Justice' M'Leod, 'must expect to meet with rubbers.' Pritchard
was told to write his version of the recent transactions at 'the Forks,' and did so; but his
account did not please M'Leod.  'You have drawn up a pretty paper,' he grumbled; 'you had better
take care of yourself, or you will get into a scrape.'

Michael Heden also was examined as to his knowledge of the matter. When M'Leod heard the answers
of Heden he was even more wrathful.

'They are all lies,' he declared with emphasis.

{105}

The result of M'Leod's judicial procedure was that five of the party were detained and placed
under arrest.  The others were allowed to proceed on their way.  John Bourke was charged with
felony, and Michael Heden and Patrick Corcoran were served with subpoenas to give evidence
for the crown against him, on September 1, at Montreal.  John Pritchard and Daniel M'Kay were
among the five detained, presumably as crown witnesses.  After some delay--M'Leod had to visit
Fort Douglas and the neighbourhood--the prisoners were sent on the long journey to Fort William
on Lake Superior.  Bourke was at once stripped of his valuables and placed in irons, regardless
of the fact that his wound was causing him intense suffering.  During the whole of the journey
he was compelled to lie manacled on a pile of baggage in one of the canoes.

Fort Douglas on the Red River was still standing, but the character of its occupants had changed
radically.  At first Cuthbert Grant took command, but he soon made way for Alexander Macdonell,
who reached Fort Douglas shortly after the affair at Seven Oaks.  When Archibald Norman M'Leod
appeared, he was the senior officer in authority, and he {106} took up his residence in the
apartments of the late Governor Semple. One day M'Leod and some followers rode over to an encampment
of Crees and Saulteaux near the ruins of Fort Gibraltar.  Here M'Leod collected and harangued
the Indians.  He upbraided them for their failure to interfere when Duncan Cameron had been
forcibly removed to Hudson Bay, and he spoke harshly of their sympathy for the colonists when
the Nor'westers had found it necessary to drive them away.  Peguis, chief of the Saulteaux
and the leading figure in the Indian camp, listened attentively, but remained stolidly taciturn.
On the evening of the same day the Nor'westers returned to Fort Douglas and indulged in some
of their wildest revelries.  The Bois Brûlés stripped themselves naked and celebrated their
recent triumph in a wild and savage orgy, while their more staid companions looked on with
approval.

According to the testimony of Augustin Lavigne, M'Leod during his stay at Fort Douglas publicly
made the following promise to an assembly of Bois Brûlés: 'My kinsmen, my comrades, who have
helped us in the time of need; I have brought clothing for you  I expected to have found about
forty of you {107} here with Mr Macdonell, but there are more of you.  I have forty suits of
clothing.  Those who are most in need of them may have these, and on the arrival of the canoes
in autumn, the rest of you shall be clothed likewise.'

[1] For the details of the tragedy which now occurred we are chiefly indebted to the accounts
of John Pritchard, a former Nor'wester, who had settled with his family at the Red River, of
Michael Heden, a blacksmith connected with the settlement, and of John Bourke, the colony store-keeper.

[2] Some of the dead were afterwards taken from the field of Seven Oaks to Fort Douglas by
Cree and Saulteaux Indians.  These received decent burial, but the others, lying uninterred
as they had fallen, became a prey to the wild beasts of the prairie.

[3] An act of the Imperial parliament of 1803 had transferred jurisdiction in the case of offences
committed in the Indian Territories from Great Britain to Canada, and had allowed the Canadian
authorities to appoint magistrates for these rather undefined regions. M'Leod was one of these
magistrates.

{108}

CHAPTER X

LORD SELKIRK'S JOURNEY

We left Lord Selkirk at Montreal.  Several days before the massacre of Seven Oaks he had completed
the preparations for his journey to the west, and was hastening forward in the hope of arriving
at the Red River in time to save his colony.  He had secured his own appointment as justice
of the peace for Upper Canada and the Indian Territories, and also the promise of a bodyguard
of one non-commissioned officer and six men for his personal defence.  This much he had obtained
from the Canadian authorities.  They remained unwilling, however, to send armed aid to Assiniboia.
This want Lord Selkirk was himself supplying, for he was bringing with him a fresh contingent
of settlers--of a class hitherto unknown among his colonists.  These new settlers were trained
soldiers, disciplined and tried in active service on many a battlefield.

{109}

The close of the War of 1812 by the Treaty of Ghent, signed on December 24,1814, had left in
Canada several battalions of regular soldiers under colours.  In the early summer of 1816 orders
were issued that the De Meuron regiment, in barracks at Montreal, and the Watteville regiment,
stationed at Kingston, should be honourably disbanded.  These regiments were composed of Swiss,
Italian, and other mercenaries who had fought for Great Britain in her struggle with Napoleon.
In 1809 the De Meuron regiment had been sent from Gibraltar to the island of Malta.  In 1813
it had been transported to Canada with the reputation of being 'as fine and well-appointed
a regiment as any in his Majesty's service.'  It consisted of more than a thousand men, with
seventy-five officers.  The Watteville regiment, a force equally large, had landed at Quebec
on June 10, 1813.  Its ensign indicated that it had been in the campaigns waged against France
in the Spanish peninsula and had served under Sir John Stuart in southern Italy.

About two hundred of the disbanded De Meurons desired to remain in Canada, and Selkirk at once
sought to interest them in his western enterprise.  Four officers--Captains {110} Matthey and
D'Orsonnens and Lieutenants Graffenreid and Fauché--and about eighty of the rank and file were
willing to enlist.  It was agreed that they should receive allotments of land in Assiniboia
on the terms granted to the settlers who had formerly gone from Scotland and Ireland.  They
were to be supplied with the necessary agricultural implements, and each was to be given a
musket for hunting or for defence.  Their wages were to be eight dollars a month for manning
the boats which should take them to their destination.  In case the settlement should not be
to their liking, Lord Selkirk pledged himself to transport them to Europe free of cost, by
way of either Montreal or Hudson Bay.

On June 4 the contingent of men and officers began their journey from Montreal up the St Lawrence.
At Kingston a halt was made while Captain Matthey, acting for the Earl of Selkirk, enlisted
twenty more veterans of the Watteville regiment.  It is stated that an officer and several
privates from another disbanded regiment, the Glengarry Fencibles, were also engaged as settlers,
but it is not clear at what point they joined the party.  When all was ready for the long journey,
the combined forces skirted the northern shore {111} of Lake Ontario from Kingston, until they
reached York, the capital of Upper Canada.  Thence their route lay to Georgian Bay by way of
Lake Simcoe and the Severn.

Lord Selkirk left Montreal on June 16, following in the wake of his new-won colonists, and
overtook them at the entrance into Georgian Bay. Apparently he went over the same route, for
he crossed Lake Simcoe. Information is lacking as to his companions.  Miles Macdonell could
not have been with him, for Macdonell had been sent forward earlier with a small body of men
in light canoes that he might reach the settlement in advance of Lord Selkirk.  One hundred
and twenty Canadian voyageurs had been recently engaged to go to Assiniboia in the service
of the Hudson's Bay Company.  Possibly these canoemen accompanied Selkirk on the first stages
of his journey.

On Drummond Island, at the head of Lake Huron, was situated the most westerly military station
maintained by the government of Upper Canada. Here Lord Selkirk halted and allowed his company
to go on in advance into the straits of St Mary.  At the military post at Drummond Island he
was furnished with the promised escort of six men under a {112} non-commissioned officer of
the 37th regiment.  On July 22 he was present at a council held on the island by the Indian
authorities stationed there.  One of the principal figures at this council was Katawabetay,
chief of the Chippewas, from Sand Lake.  On being questioned, Katawabetay told of his refusal
the year before to join the Nor'westers in an attack on the Red River Colony; he also declared
that an attempt had been made during the previous spring by a trader named Grant to have some
of his young Chippewas waylay Lord Selkirk's messenger, Laguimonière, near Fond du Lac.  Grant
had offered Katawabetay two kegs of rum and some tobacco, but the bribe was refused.  The Ottawa
Indians, not the Chippewas, had waylaid the messenger.  This trader Grant had told Katawabetay
that he was going to the Red River 'to fight the settlers.'[1]

Lord Selkirk put a question to Katawabetay.

'Are the Indians about the Red River, or that part of the country you come from,' asked the
earl through an interpreter, 'pleased {113} or displeased at the people settling at the Red River?'

'At the commencement of the settlement at Red River, some of the Indians did not like it,'
answered the chief, 'but at present they are all glad of its being settled.'

Meanwhile the party which had gone on in advance had entered the St Mary's river, connecting
Lakes Huron and Superior, had crossed the half-mile portage of the Sault Rapids, and had pitched
their camp some distance farther up-stream.  Before the end of July Lord Selkirk was again
among them.  He gave the order to advance, and the boats were launched.  But, only a few miles
out from Sault Ste Marie, there suddenly appeared two canoes, in one of which was Miles Macdonell.
For the first time Lord Selkirk now learned of the disaster which had befallen the colony in
the month of June.  Macdonell had gone as far as the mouth of the Winnipeg before he learned
the news.  Now he was able to tell Lord Selkirk of the massacre of Semple and his men, of the
eviction of the settlers, and of the forcible detention of those sent by M'Leod to the Nor'westers'
trading-post at Fort William.

Selkirk had entertained the hope of averting a calamity at the settlement by bringing {114}
in enough retired soldiers to preserve order.  But this hope was now utterly blasted.  He might,
however, use the resources of the law against the traders at Fort William, and this he decided
to attempt.  He was, however, in a peculiar position.  He had, it is true, been created a justice
of the peace, but it would seem hardly proper for him to try lawbreakers who were attacking
his own personal interests.  Accordingly, before finally setting out for Fort William, he begged
Magistrate John Askin, of Drummond Island, and Magistrate Ermatinger, of Sault Ste Marie, to
accompany him.  But neither of these men could leave his duties.  When Selkirk thus failed
to secure disinterested judges, he determined to act under the authority with which he had
been vested.  In a letter, dated July 29, to Sir John Sherbrooke, the recently appointed governor
of Canada, he referred with some uneasiness to the position in which he found himself.  'I
am therefore reduced to the alternative of acting alone,' he wrote, 'or of allowing an audacious
crime to pass unpunished.  In these circumstances, I cannot doubt that it is my duty to act,
though I am not without apprehension that the law may be openly resisted by a set of men who
{115} have been accustomed to consider force as the only criterion of right.'

Selkirk advanced to Fort William.  There is no record of his journey across the deep sounds
and along the rock-girt shores of Lake Superior. His contingent was divided into two sections,
possibly as soon as it emerged from the St Mary's river and entered Whitefish Bay.  Selkirk
himself sped forward with the less cumbersome craft, while the soldier-settlers advanced more
leisurely in their bateaux.  Early in August the vanguard came within sight of the islands
that bar the approach to Thunder Bay.  Then, as their canoes slipped through the dark waters,
they were soon abeam of that majestic headland, Thunder Cape, 'the agèd Cape of Storms.'  Inside
the bay they saw that long, low island known as the Sleeping Giant.  A portion of the voyageurs,
led by a Canadian named Chatelain, disembarked upon an island about seven miles from Fort William.
Selkirk, with the rest of the advance party, went on.  Skirting the settlement at Fort William,
they ascended the river Kaministikwia for about half a mile, and on the opposite bank from
the fort, at a spot since known as Point De Meuron, they erected their temporary habitations.

[1] The trader was probably Charles Grant, a clerk in the North-West Company's fort at Fond
du Lac, and not Cuthbert Grant, the leader at Seven Oaks.

{116}

CHAPTER XI

FORT WILLIAM

