Although I had not partaken of my repast until the hours of evening church-service were over,--in
which, by the way, I complied with the religious scruples of my landlady, who hesitated to
dress a hot dinner between sermons, and also with the admonition of my unknown friend, to keep
my apartment till twilight,--several hours had still to pass away betwixt the time of my appointment
and that at which I reached the assigned place of meeting. The interval, as you will readily
credit, was wearisome enough; and I can hardly explain to you how it passed away. Various groups
of persons, all of whom, young and old, seemed impressed with a reverential feeling of the
sanctity of the day, passed along the large open meadow which lies on the northern bank of
the Clyde, and serves at once as a bleaching-field and pleasure-walk for the inhabitants, or
paced with slow steps the long bridge which communicates with the southern district of the
county. All that I remember of them was the general, yet not unpleasing, intimation of a devotional
character impressed on each little party--formally assumed perhaps by some, but sincerely characterising
the greater number--which hushed the petulant gaiety of the young into a tone of more quiet,
yet more interesting, interchange of sentiments, and suppressed the vehement argument and protracted
disputes of those of more advanced age. Notwithstanding the numbers who passed me, no general
sound of the human voice was heard; few turned again to take some minutes' voluntary exercise,
to which the leisure of the evening, and the beauty of the surrounding scenery, seemed to invite
them: all hurried to their homes and resting-places. To one accustomed to the mode of spending
Sunday evenings abroad, even among the French Calvinists, there seemed something Judaical,
yet, at the same time striking and affecting, in this mode of keeping the Sabbath holy. Insensibly
I felt my mode of sauntering by the side of the river, and crossing successively the various
persons who were passing homeward, and without tarrying or delay, must expose me to observation
at least, if not to censure; and I slunk out of the frequented path, and found a trivial occupation
for my mind in marshalling my revolving walk in such a manner as should least render me obnoxious
to observation. The different alleys lined out through this extensive meadow, and which are
planted with trees, like the Park of St. James's in London, gave me facilities for carrying
into effect these childish manoeuvres.

As I walked down one of these avenues, I heard, to my surprise, the sharp and conceited voice
of Andrew Fairservice, raised by a sense of self-consequence to a pitch somewhat higher than
others seemed to think consistent with the solemnity of the day. To slip behind the row of
trees under which I walked was perhaps no very dignified proceeding; but it was the easiest
mode of escaping his observation, and perhaps his impertinent assiduity, and still more intrusive
curiosity. As he passed, I heard him communicate to a grave-looking man, in a black coat, a
slouched hat, and Geneva cloak, the following sketch of a character, which my self-love, while
revolting against it as a caricature, could not, nevertheless, refuse to recognise as a likeness.

"Ay, ay, Mr. Hammorgaw, it's e'en as I tell ye. He's no a'thegither sae void o' sense neither;
he has a gloaming sight o' what's reasonable--that is anes and awa'--a glisk and nae mair;
but he's crack-brained and cockle-headed about his nipperty-tipperty poetry nonsense--He'll
glowr at an auld-warld barkit aik-snag as if it were a queezmaddam in full bearing; and a naked
craig, wi' a bum jawing ower't, is unto him as a garden garnisht with flowering knots and choice
pot-herbs. Then he wad rather claver wi' a daft quean they ca' Diana Vernon (weel I wet they
might ca' her Diana of the Ephesians, for she's little better than a heathen--better? she's
waur--a Roman, a mere Roman)--he'll claver wi' her, or any ither idle slut, rather than hear
what might do him gude a' the days of his life, frae you or me, Mr. Hammorgaw, or ony ither
sober and sponsible person. Reason, sir, is what he canna endure--he's a' for your vanities
and volubilities; and he ance tell'd me (puir blinded creature!) that the Psalms of David were
excellent poetry! as if the holy Psalmist thought o' rattling rhymes in a blether, like his
ain silly clinkum-clankum things that he ca's verse. Gude help him!--twa lines o' Davie Lindsay
would ding a' he ever clerkit."

While listening to this perverted account of my temper and studies, you will not be surprised
if I meditated for Mr. Fairservice the unpleasant surprise of a broken pate on the first decent
opportunity. His friend only intimated his attention by "Ay, ay!" and "Is't e'en sae?" and
suchlike expressions of interest, at the proper breaks in Mr. Fairservice's harangue, until
at length, in answer to some observation of greater length, the import of which I only collected
from my trusty guide's reply, honest Andrew answered, "Tell him a bit o'my mind, quoth ye?
Wha wad be fule then but Andrew? He's a red-wad deevil, man--He's like Giles Heathertap's auld
boar;--ye need but shake a clout at him to make him turn and gore. Bide wi' him, say ye?--Troth,
I kenna what for I bide wi' him mysell. But the lad's no a bad lad after a'; and he needs some
carefu' body to look after him. He hasna the right grip o' his hand--the gowd slips through't
like water, man; and it's no that ill a thing to be near him when his purse is in his hand,
and it's seldom out o't. And then he's come o' guid kith and kin--My heart warms to the poor
thoughtless callant, Mr. Hammorgaw--and then the penny fee"--

In the latter part of this instructive communication, Mr. Fairservice lowered his voice to
a tone better beseeming the conversation in a place of public resort on a Sabbath evening,
and his companion and he were soon beyond my hearing. My feelings of hasty resentment soon
subsided, under the conviction that, as Andrew himself might have said, "A harkener always
hears a bad tale of himself," and that whoever should happen to overhear their character discussed
in their own servants'-hall, must prepare to undergo the scalpel of some such anatomist as
Mr. Fairservice. The incident was so far useful, as, including the feelings to which it gave
rise, it sped away a part of the time which hung so heavily on my hand.

Evening had now closed, and the growing darkness gave to the broad, still, and deep expanse
of the brimful river, first a hue sombre and uniform--then a dismal and turbid appearance,
partially lighted by a waning and pallid moon. The massive and ancient bridge which stretches
across the Clyde was now but dimly visible, and resembled that which Mirza, in his unequalled
vision, has described as traversing the valley of Bagdad. The low-browed arches, seen as imperfectly
as the dusky current which they bestrode, seemed rather caverns which swallowed up the gloomy
waters of the river, than apertures contrived for their passage. With the advancing night the
stillness of the scene increased. There was yet a twinkling light occasionally seen to glide
along by the stream, which conducted home one or two of the small parties, who, after the abstinence
and religious duties of the day, had partaken of a social supper--the only meal at which the
rigid Presbyterians made some advance to sociality on the Sabbath. Occasionally, also, the
hoofs of a horse were heard, whose rider, after spending the Sunday in Glasgow, was directing
his steps towards his residence in the country. These sounds and sights became gradually of
more rare occurrence; at length they altogether ceased, and I was left to enjoy my solitary
walk on the shores of the Clyde in solemn silence, broken only by the tolling of the successive
hours from the steeples of the churches.

But as the night advanced my impatience at the uncertainty of the situation in which I was
placed increased every moment, and became nearly ungovernable. I began to question whether
I had been imposed upon by the trick of a fool, the raving of a madman, or the studied machinations
of a villain, and paced the little quay or pier adjoining the entrance to the bridge, in a
state of incredible anxiety and vexation. At length the hour of twelve o'clock swung its summons
over the city from the belfry of the metropolitan church of St. Mungo, and was answered and
vouched by all the others like dutiful diocesans. The echoes had scarcely ceased to repeat
the last sound, when a human form--the first I had seen for two hours--appeared passing along
the bridge from the southern shore of the river. I advanced to meet him with a feeling as if
my fate depended on the result of the interview, so much had my anxiety been wound up by protracted
expectation. All that I could remark of the passenger as we advanced towards each other, was
that his frame was rather beneath than above the middle size, but apparently strong, thick-set,
and muscular; his dress a horseman's wrapping coat. I slackened my pace, and almost paused
as I advanced in expectation that he would address me. But to my inexpressible disappointment
he passed without speaking, and I had no pretence for being the first to address one who, notwithstanding
his appearance at the very hour of appointment, might nevertheless be an absolute stranger.
I stopped when he had passed me, and looked after him, uncertain whether I ought not to follow
him. The stranger walked on till near the northern end of the bridge, then paused, looked back,
and turning round, again advanced towards me. I resolved that this time he should not have
the apology for silence proper to apparitions, who, it is vulgarly supposed, cannot speak until
they are spoken to. "You walk late, sir," said I, as we met a second time.

"I bide tryste," was the reply; "and so I think do you, Mr. Osbaldistone."

"You are then the person who requested to meet me here at this unusual hour?"

"I am," he replied. "Follow me, and you shall know my reasons."

"Before following you, I must know your name and purpose," I answered.

"I am a man," was the reply; "and my purpose is friendly to you."

"A man!" I repeated;--"that is a very brief description."

"It will serve for one who has no other to give," said the stranger. "He that is without name,
without friends, without coin, without country, is still at least a man; and he that has all
these is no more."

"Yet this is still too general an account of yourself, to say the least of it, to establish
your credit with a stranger."

"It is all I mean to give, howsoe'er; you may choose to follow me, or to remain without the
information I desire to afford you."

"Can you not give me that information here?" I demanded.

"You must receive it from your eyes, not from my tongue--you must follow me, or remain in ignorance
of the information which I have to give you."

There was something short, determined, and even stern, in the man's manner, not certainly well
calculated to conciliate undoubting confidence.

"What is it you fear?" he said impatiently. "To whom, think ye, is your life of such consequence,
that they should seek to bereave ye of it?"

"I fear nothing," I replied firmly, though somewhat hastily. "Walk on--I attend you."

We proceeded, contrary to my expectation, to re-enter the town, and glided like mute spectres,
side by side, up its empty and silent streets. The high and gloomy stone fronts, with the variegated
ornaments and pediments of the windows, looked yet taller and more sable by the imperfect moonshine.
Our walk was for some minutes in perfect silence. At length my conductor spoke.

"Are you afraid?"

"I retort your own words," I replied: "wherefore should I fear?"

"Because you are with a stranger--perhaps an enemy, in a place where you have no friends and
many enemies."

"I neither fear you nor them; I am young, active, and armed."

"I am not armed," replied my conductor: "but no matter, a willing hand never lacked weapon.
You say you fear nothing; but if you knew who was by your side, perhaps you might underlie
a tremor."

"And why should I?" replied I. "I again repeat, I fear nought that you can do."

"Nought that I can do?--Be it so. But do you not fear the consequences of being found with
one whose very name whispered in this lonely street would make the stones themselves rise up
to apprehend him--on whose head half the men in Glasgow would build their fortune as on a found
treasure, had they the luck to grip him by the collar--the sound of whose apprehension were
as welcome at the Cross of Edinburgh as ever the news of a field stricken and won in Flanders?"

"And who then are you, whose name should create so deep a feeling of terror?" I replied.

"No enemy of yours, since I am conveying you to a place, where, were I myself recognised and
identified, iron to the heels and hemp to the craig would be my brief dooming."

I paused and stood still on the pavement, drawing back so as to have the most perfect view
of my companion which the light afforded me, and which was sufficient to guard against any
sudden motion of assault.

"You have said," I answered, "either too much or too little--too much to induce me to confide
in you as a mere stranger, since you avow yourself a person amenable to the laws of the country
in which we are--and too little, unless you could show that you are unjustly subjected to their
rigour."

As I ceased to speak, he made a step towards me. I drew back instinctively, and laid my hand
on the hilt of my sword.

"What!" said he--"on an unarmed man, and your friend?"

"I am yet ignorant if you are either the one or the other," I replied; "and to say the truth,
your language and manner might well entitle me to doubt both."

"It is manfully spoken," replied my conductor; "and I respect him whose hand can keep his head.--I
will be frank and free with you--I am conveying you to prison."

"To prison!" I exclaimed--"by what warrant or for what offence?--You shall have my life sooner
than my liberty--I defy you, and I will not follow you a step farther."

"I do not," he said, "carry you there as a prisoner; I am," he added, drawing himself haughtily
up, "neither a messenger nor sheriff's officer. I carry you to see a prisoner from whose lips
you will learn the risk in which you presently stand. Your liberty is little risked by the
visit; mine is in some peril; but that I readily encounter on your account, for I care not
for risk, and I love a free young blood, that kens no protector but the cross o' the sword."

While he spoke thus, we had reached the principal street, and were pausing before a large building
of hewn stone, garnished, as I thought I could perceive, with gratings of iron before the windows.

"Muckle," said the stranger, whose language became more broadly national as he assumed a tone
of colloquial freedom--"Muckle wad the provost and bailies o' Glasgow gie to hae him sitting
with iron garters to his hose within their tolbooth that now stands wi' his legs as free as
the red-deer's on the outside on't. And little wad it avail them; for an if they had me there
wi' a stane's weight o' iron at every ankle, I would show them a toom room and a lost lodger
before to-morrow--But come on, what stint ye for?"

As he spoke thus, he tapped at a low wicket, and was answered by a sharp voice, as of one awakened
from a dream or reverie,--"Fa's tat?--Wha's that, I wad say?--and fat a deil want ye at this
hour at e'en?--Clean again rules--clean again rules, as they ca' them."

The protracted tone in which the last words were uttered, betokened that the speaker was again
composing himself to slumber. But my guide spoke in a loud whisper--"Dougal, man! hae ye forgotten
Ha nun Gregarach?"

"Deil a bit, deil a bit," was the ready and lively response, and I heard the internal guardian
of the prison-gate bustle up with great alacrity. A few words were exchanged between my conductor
and the turnkey in a language to which I was an absolute stranger. The bolts revolved, but
with a caution which marked the apprehension that the noise might be overheard, and we stood
within the vestibule of the prison of Glasgow,--a small, but strong guard-room, from which
a narrow staircase led upwards, and one or two low entrances conducted to apartments on the
same level with the outward gate, all secured with the jealous strength of wickets, bolts,
and bars. The walls, otherwise naked, were not unsuitably garnished with iron fetters, and
other uncouth implements, which might be designed for purposes still more inhuman, interspersed
with partisans, guns, pistols of antique manufacture, and other weapons of defence and offence.

At finding myself so unexpectedly, fortuitously, and, as it were, by stealth, introduced within
one of the legal fortresses of Scotland, I could not help recollecting my adventure in Northumberland,
and fretting at the strange incidents which again, without any demerits of my own, threatened
to place me in a dangerous and disagreeable collision with the laws of a country which I visited
only in the capacity of a stranger.

CHAPTER FIFTH.

            Look round thee, young Astolpho: Here's the place
            Which men (for being poor) are sent to starve in;
                Rude remedy, I trow, for sore disease.
            Within these walls, stifled by damp and stench,
            Doth Hope's fair torch expire; and at the snuff,
            Ere yet 'tis quite extinct, rude, wild, and way-ward,
                The desperate revelries of wild despair,
            Kindling their hell-born cressets, light to deeds
            That the poor captive would have died ere practised,
                Till bondage sunk his soul to his condition.
                                  The Prison, Scene III. Act I.

At my first entrance I turned an eager glance towards my conductor; but the lamp in the vestibule
was too low in flame to give my curiosity any satisfaction by affording a distinct perusal
of his features. As the turnkey held the light in his hand, the beams fell more full on his
own scarce less interesting figure. He was a wild shock-headed looking animal, whose profusion
of red hair covered and obscured his features, which were otherwise only characterised by the
extravagant joy that affected him at the sight of my guide. In my experience I have met nothing
so absolutely resembling my idea of a very uncouth, wild, and ugly savage, adoring the idol
of his tribe. He grinned, he shivered, he laughed, he was near crying, if he did not actually
cry. He had a "Where shall I go?--What can I do for you?" expression of face; the complete,
surrendered, and anxious subservience and devotion of which it is difficult to describe, otherwise
than by the awkward combination which I have attempted. The fellow's voice seemed choking in
his ecstasy, and only could express itself in such interjections as "Oigh! oigh!--Ay! ay!--it's
lang since she's seen ye!" and other exclamations equally brief, expressed in the same unknown
tongue in which he had communicated with my conductor while we were on the outside of the jail
door. My guide received all this excess of joyful gratulation much like a prince too early
accustomed to the homage of those around him to be much moved by it, yet willing to requite
it by the usual forms of royal courtesy. He extended his hand graciously towards the turnkey,
with a civil inquiry of "How's a' wi' you, Dougal?"

"Oigh! oigh!" exclaimed Dougal, softening the sharp exclamations of his surprise as he looked
around with an eye of watchful alarm--"Oigh! to see you here--to see you here!--Oigh!--what
will come o' ye gin the bailies suld come to get witting--ta filthy, gutty hallions, tat they are?"

My guide placed his finger on his lip, and said, "Fear nothing, Dougal; your hands shall never
draw a bolt on me."

"Tat sall they no," said Dougal; "she suld--she wad--that is, she wishes them hacked aff by
the elbows first--But when are ye gaun yonder again? and ye'll no forget to let her ken--she's
your puir cousin, God kens, only seven times removed."

"I will let you ken, Dougal, as soon as my plans are settled."

"And, by her sooth, when you do, an it were twal o' the Sunday at e'en, she'll fling her keys
at the provost's head or she gie them anither turn, and that or ever Monday morning begins--see
if she winna."

My mysterious stranger cut his acquaintance's ecstasies short by again addressing him, in what
I afterwards understood to be the Irish, Earse, or Gaelic, explaining, probably, the services
which he required at his hand. The answer, "Wi' a' her heart--wi' a' her soul," with a good
deal of indistinct muttering in a similar tone, intimated the turnkey's acquiescence in what
he proposed. The fellow trimmed his dying lamp, and made a sign to me to follow him.

"Do you not go with us?" said I, looking to my conductor.

"It is unnecessary," he replied; "my company may be inconvenient for you, and I had better
remain to secure our retreat."

"I do not suppose you mean to betray me to danger," said I.

"To none but what I partake in doubly," answered the stranger, with a voice of assurance which
it was impossible to mistrust.

I followed the turnkey, who, leaving the inner wicket unlocked behind him, led me up a turnpike
(so the Scotch call a winding stair), then along a narrow gallery--then opening one of several
doors which led into the passage, he ushered me into a small apartment, and casting his eye
on the pallet-bed which occupied one corner, said with an under voice, as he placed the lamp
on a little deal table, "She's sleeping."

"She!--who?--can it be Diana Vernon in this abode of misery?"

I turned my eye to the bed, and it was with a mixture of disappointment oddly mingled with
pleasure, that I saw my first suspicion had deceived me. I saw a head neither young nor beautiful,
garnished with a grey beard of two days' growth, and accommodated with a red nightcap. The
first glance put me at ease on the score of Diana Vernon; the second, as the slumberer awoke
from a heavy sleep, yawned, and rubbed his eyes, presented me with features very different
indeed--even those of my poor friend Owen. I drew back out of view an instant, that he might
have time to recover himself; fortunately recollecting that I was but an intruder on these
cells of sorrow, and that any alarm might be attended with unhappy consequences.

Meantime, the unfortunate formalist, raising himself from the pallet-bed with the assistance
of one hand, and scratching his cap with the other, exclaimed in a voice in which as much peevishness
as he was capable of feeling, contended with drowsiness, "I'll tell you what, Mr. Dug-well,
or whatever your name may be, the sum-total of the matter is, that if my natural rest is to
be broken in this manner, I must complain to the lord mayor."

"Shentlemans to speak wi' her," replied Dougal, resuming the true dogged sullen tone of a turnkey,
in exchange for the shrill clang of Highland congratulation with which he had welcomed my mysterious
guide; and, turning on his heel, he left the apartment.

It was some time before I could prevail upon the unfortunate sleeper awakening to recognise
me; and when he did so, the distress of the worthy creature was extreme, at supposing, which
he naturally did, that I had been sent thither as a partner of his captivity.

"O, Mr. Frank, what have you brought yourself and the house to?--I think nothing of myself,
that am a mere cipher, so to speak; but you, that was your father's sum-total--his omnium,--you
that might have been the first man in the first house in the first city, to be shut up in a
nasty Scotch jail, where one cannot even get the dirt brushed off their clothes!"

He rubbed, with an air of peevish irritation, the once stainless brown coat, which had now
shared some of the impurities of the floor of his prison-house,--his habits of extreme punctilious
neatness acting mechanically to increase his distress.--"O Heaven be gracious to us!" he continued.
"What news this will be on 'Change! There has not the like come there since the battle of Almanza,
where the total of the British loss was summed up to five thousand men killed and wounded,
besides a floating balance of missing--but what will that be to the news that Osbaldistone
and Tresham have stopped!"

I broke in on his lamentations to acquaint him that I was no prisoner, though scarce able to
account for my being in that place at such an hour. I could only silence his inquiries by persisting
in those which his own situation suggested; and at length obtained from him such information
as he was able to give me. It was none of the most distinct; for, however clear-headed in his
own routine of commercial business, Owen, you are well aware, was not very acute in comprehending
what lay beyond that sphere.

The sum of his information was, that of two correspondents of my father's firm at Glasgow,
where, owing to engagements in Scotland formerly alluded to, he transacted a great deal of
business, both my father and Owen had found the house of MacVittie, MacFin, and Company, the
most obliging and accommodating. They had deferred to the great English house on every possible
occasion; and in their bargains and transactions acted, without repining, the part of the jackall,
who only claims what the lion is pleased to leave him. However small the share of profit allotted
to them, it was always, as they expressed it, "enough for the like of them;" however large
the portion of trouble, "they were sensible they could not do too much to deserve the continued
patronage and good opinion of their honoured friends in Crane Alley."

The dictates of my father were to MacVittie and MacFin the laws of the Medes and Persians,
not to be altered, innovated, or even discussed; and the punctilios exacted by Owen in their
business transactions, for he was a great lover of form, more especially when he could dictate
it ex cathedra, seemed scarce less sanctimonious in their eyes. This tone of deep and respectful
observance went all currently down with Owen; but my father looked a little closer into men's
bosoms, and whether suspicious of this excess of deference, or, as a lover of brevity and simplicity
in business, tired with these gentlemen's long-winded professions of regard, he had uniformly
resisted their desire to become his sole agents in Scotland. On the contrary, he transacted
many affairs through a correspondent of a character perfectly different--a man whose good opinion
of himself amounted to self-conceit, and who, disliking the English in general as much as my
father did the Scotch, would hold no communication but on a footing of absolute equality; jealous,
moreover; captious occasionally; as tenacious of his own opinions in point of form as Owen
could be of his; and totally indifferent though the authority of all Lombard Street had stood
against his own private opinion.

As these peculiarities of temper rendered it difficult to transact business with Mr. Nicol
Jarvie,--as they occasioned at times disputes and coldness between the English house and their
correspondent, which were only got over by a sense of mutual interest,--as, moreover, Owen's
personal vanity sometimes suffered a little in the discussions to which they gave rise, you
cannot be surprised, Tresham, that our old friend threw at all times the weight of his influence
in favour of the civil, discreet, accommodating concern of MacVittie and MacFin, and spoke
of Jarvie as a petulant, conceited Scotch pedlar, with whom there was no dealing.

It was also not surprising, that in these circumstances, which I only learned in detail some
time afterwards, Owen, in the difficulties to which the house was reduced by the absence of
my father, and the disappearance of Rashleigh, should, on his arrival in Scotland, which took
place two days before mine, have recourse to the friendship of those correspondents, who had
always professed themselves obliged, gratified, and devoted to the service of his principal.
He was received at Messrs. MacVittie and MacFin's counting-house in the Gallowgate, with something
like the devotion a Catholic would pay to his tutelar saint. But, alas! this sunshine was soon
overclouded, when, encouraged by the fair hopes which it inspired, he opened the difficulties
of the house to his friendly correspondents, and requested their counsel and assistance. MacVittie
was almost stunned by the communication; and MacFin, ere it was completed, was already at the
ledger of their firm, and deeply engaged in the very bowels of the multitudinous accounts between
their house and that of Osbaldistone and Tresham, for the purpose of discovering on which side
the balance lay. Alas! the scale depressed considerably against the English firm; and the faces
of MacVittie and MacFin, hitherto only blank and doubtful, became now ominous, grim, and lowering.
They met Mr. Owen's request of countenance and assistance with a counter-demand of instant
security against imminent hazard of eventual loss; and at length, speaking more plainly, required
that a deposit of assets, destined for other purposes, should be placed in their hands for
that purpose. Owen repelled this demand with great indignation, as dishonourable to his constituents,
unjust to the other creditors of Osbaldistone and Tresham, and very ungrateful on the part
of those by whom it was made.

The Scotch partners gained, in the course of this controversy, what is very convenient to persons
who are in the wrong, an opportunity and pretext for putting themselves in a violent passion,
and for taking, under the pretext of the provocation they had received, measures to which some
sense of decency, if not of conscience, might otherwise have deterred them from resorting.

Owen had a small share, as I believe is usual, in the house to which he acted as head-clerk,
and was therefore personally liable for all its obligations. This was known to Messrs. MacVittie
and MacFin; and, with a view of making him feel their power, or rather in order to force him,
at this emergency, into those measures in their favour, to which he had expressed himself so
repugnant, they had recourse to a summary process of arrest and imprisonment,--which it seems
the law of Scotland (therein surely liable to much abuse) allows to a creditor, who finds his
conscience at liberty to make oath that the debtor meditates departing from the realm. Under
such a warrant had poor Owen been confined to durance on the day preceding that when I was
so strangely guided to his prison-house.

Thus possessed of the alarming outline of facts, the question remained, what was to be done
and it was not of easy determination. I plainly perceived the perils with which we were surrounded,
but it was more difficult to suggest any remedy. The warning which I had already received seemed
to intimate, that my own personal liberty might be endangered by an open appearance in Owen's
behalf. Owen entertained the same apprehension, and, in the exaggeration of his terror, assured
me that a Scotchman, rather than run the risk of losing a farthing by an Englishman, would
find law for arresting his wife, children, man-servant, maidservant, and stranger within his
household. The laws concerning debt, in most countries, are so unmercifully severe, that I
could not altogether disbelieve his statement; and my arrest, in the present circumstances,
would have been a coup-de-grace to my father's affairs. In this dilemma, I asked Owen if he
had not thought of having recourse to my father's other correspondent in Glasgow, Mr. Nicol Jarvie?

"He had sent him a letter," he replied, "that morning; but if the smooth-tongued and civil
house in the Gallowgate* had used him thus, what was to be expected from the cross-grained
crab-stock in the Salt-Market?

* [A street in the old town of Glasgow.]

You might as well ask a broker to give up his percentage, as expect a favour from him without
the per contra. He had not even," Owen said, "answered his letter though it was put into his
hand that morning as he went to church." And here the despairing man-of-figures threw himself
down on his pallet, exclaiming,--"My poor dear master! My poor dear master! O Mr. Frank, Mr.
Frank, this is all your obstinacy!--But God forgive me for saying so to you in your distress!
It's God's disposing, and man must submit."

My philosophy, Tresham, could not prevent my sharing in the honest creature's distress, and
we mingled our tears,--the more bitter on my part, as the perverse opposition to my father's
will, with which the kind-hearted Owen forbore to upbraid me, rose up to my conscience as the
cause of all this affliction.

In the midst of our mingled sorrow, we were disturbed and surprised by a loud knocking at the
outward door of the prison. I ran to the top of the staircase to listen, but could only hear
the voice of the turnkey, alternately in a high tone, answering to some person without, and
in a whisper, addressed to the person who had guided me hither--"She's coming--she's coming,"
aloud; then in a low key, "O hon-a-ri! O hon-a-ri! what'll she do now?--Gang up ta stair, and
hide yourself ahint ta Sassenach shentleman's ped.--She's coming as fast as she can.--Ahellanay!
it's my lord provosts, and ta pailies, and ta guard--and ta captain's coming toon stairs too--Got
press her! gang up or he meets her.--She's coming--she's coming--ta lock's sair roosted."

While Dougal, unwillingly, and with as much delay as possible, undid the various fastenings
to give admittance to those without, whose impatience became clamorous, my guide ascended the
winding stair, and sprang into Owen's apartment, into which I followed him. He cast his eyes
hastily round, as if looking for a place of concealment; then said to me, "Lend me your pistols--yet
it's no matter, I can do without them--Whatever you see, take no heed, and do not mix your
hand in another man's feud--This gear's mine, and I must manage it as I dow; but I have been
as hard bested, and worse, than I am even now."

As the stranger spoke these words, he stripped from his person the cumbrous upper coat in which
he was wrapt, confronted the door of the apartment, on which he fixed a keen and determined
glance, drawing his person a little back to concentrate his force, like a fine horse brought
up to the leaping-bar. I had not a moment's doubt that he meant to extricate himself from his
embarrassment, whatever might be the cause of it, by springing full upon those who should appear
when the doors opened, and forcing his way through all opposition into the street;--and such
was the appearance of strength and agility displayed in his frame, and of determination in
his look and manner, that I did not doubt a moment but that he might get clear through his
opponents, unless they employed fatal means to stop his purpose. It was a period of awful suspense
betwixt the opening of the outward gate and that of the door of the apartment, when there appeared--no
guard with bayonets fixed, or watch with clubs, bills, or partisans, but a good-looking young
woman, with grogram petticoats, tucked up for trudging through the streets, and holding a lantern
in her hand. This female ushered in a more important personage, in form, stout, short, and
somewhat corpulent; and by dignity, as it soon appeared, a magistrate, bob-wigged, bustling,
and breathless with peevish impatience. My conductor, at his appearance, drew back as if to
escape observation; but he could not elude the penetrating twinkle with which this dignitary
reconnoitered the whole apartment.

"A bonny thing it is, and a beseeming, that I should be kept at the door half an hour, Captain
Stanchells," said he, addressing the principal jailor, who now showed himself at the door as
if in attendance on the great man, "knocking as hard to get into the tolbooth as onybody else
wad to get out of it, could that avail them, poor fallen creatures!--And how's this?--how's
this?--strangers in the jail after lock-up hours, and on the Sabbath evening!--I shall look
after this, Stanchells, you may depend on't--Keep the door locked, and I'll speak to these
gentlemen in a gliffing--But first I maun hae a crack wi' an auld acquaintance here.-- Mr.
Owen, Mr. Owen, how's a' wi' ye, man?"

"Pretty well in body, I thank you, Mr. Jarvie," drawled out poor Owen, "but sore afflicted
in spirit."

"Nae doubt, nae doubt--ay, ay--it's an awfu' whummle--and for ane that held his head sae high
too--human nature, human nature--Ay ay, we're a' subject to a downcome. Mr. Osbaldistone is
a gude honest gentleman; but I aye said he was ane o' them wad make a spune or spoil a horn,
as my father the worthy deacon used to say. The deacon used to say to me, 'Nick--young Nick'
(his name was Nicol as weel as mine; sae folk ca'd us in their daffin', young Nick and auld
Nick)--'Nick,' said he, 'never put out your arm farther than ye can draw it easily back again.'
I hae said sae to Mr. Osbaldistone, and he didna seem to take it a'thegither sae kind as I
wished--but it was weel meant--weel meant."

This discourse, delivered with prodigious volubility, and a great appearance of self-complacency,
as he recollected his own advice and predictions, gave little promise of assistance at the
hands of Mr. Jarvie. Yet it soon appeared rather to proceed from a total want of delicacy than
any deficiency of real kindness; for when Owen expressed himself somewhat hurt that these things
should be recalled to memory in his present situation, the Glaswegian took him by the hand,
and bade him "Cheer up a gliff! D'ye think I wad hae comed out at twal o'clock at night, and
amaist broken the Lord's day, just to tell a fa'en man o' his backslidings? Na, na, that's
no Bailie Jarvie's gate, nor was't his worthy father's the deacon afore him. Why, man! it's
my rule never to think on warldly business on the Sabbath, and though I did a' I could to keep
your note that I gat this morning out o' my head, yet I thought mair on it a' day, than on
the preaching--And it's my rule to gang to my bed wi' the yellow curtains preceesely at ten
o'clock--unless I were eating a haddock wi' a neighbour, or a neighbour wi' me--ask the lass-quean
there, if it isna a fundamental rule in my household; and here hae I sitten up reading gude
books, and gaping as if I wad swallow St. Enox Kirk, till it chappit twal, whilk was a lawfu'
hour to gie a look at my ledger, just to see how things stood between us; and then, as time
and tide wait for no man, I made the lass get the lantern, and came slipping my ways here to
see what can be dune anent your affairs. Bailie Jarvie can command entrance into the tolbooth
at ony hour, day or night;--sae could my father the deacon in his time, honest man, praise
to his memory."

Although Owen groaned at the mention of the ledger, leading me grievously to fear that here
also the balance stood in the wrong column; and although the worthy magistrate's speech expressed
much self-complacency, and some ominous triumph in his own superior judgment, yet it was blended
with a sort of frank and blunt good-nature, from which I could not help deriving some hopes.
He requested to see some papers he mentioned, snatched them hastily from Owen's hand, and sitting
on the bed, to "rest his shanks," as he was pleased to express the accommodation which that
posture afforded him, his servant girl held up the lantern to him, while, pshawing, muttering,
and sputtering, now at the imperfect light, now at the contents of the packet, he ran over
the writings it contained.

Seeing him fairly engaged in this course of study, the guide who had brought me hither seemed
disposed to take an unceremonious leave. He made a sign to me to say nothing, and intimated,
by his change of posture, an intention to glide towards the door in such a manner as to attract
the least possible observation. But the alert magistrate (very different from my old acquaintance,
Mr. Justice Inglewood) instantly detected and interrupted his purposes. "I say, look to the
door, Stanchells--shut and lock it, and keep watch on the outside."

The stranger's brow darkened, and he seemed for an instant again to meditate the effecting
his retreat by violence; but ere he had determined, the door closed, and the ponderous bolt
revolved. He muttered an exclamation in Gaelic, strode across the floor, and then, with an
air of dogged resolution, as if fixed and prepared to see the scene to an end, sate himself
down on the oak table, and whistled a strathspey.

Mr. Jarvie, who seemed very alert and expeditious in going through business, soon showed himself
master of that which he had been considering, and addressed himself to Mr. Owen in the following
strain:-- "Weel, Mr. Owen, weel--your house are awin' certain sums to Messrs. MacVittie and
MacFin (shame fa' their souple snouts! they made that and mair out o' a bargain about the aik-woods
at Glen-Cailziechat, that they took out atween my teeth--wi' help o' your gude word, I maun
needs say, Mr. Owen--but that makes nae odds now)--Weel, sir, your house awes them this siller;
and for this, and relief of other engagements they stand in for you, they hae putten a double
turn o' Stanchells' muckle key on ye.-- Weel, sir, ye awe this siller--and maybe ye awe some
mair to some other body too--maybe ye awe some to myself, Bailie Nicol Jarvie."

"I cannot deny, sir, but the balance may of this date be brought out against us, Mr. Jarvie,"
said Owen; "but you'll please to consider"--

"I hae nae time to consider e'enow, Mr. Owen--Sae near Sabbath at e'en, and out o' ane's warm
bed at this time o' night, and a sort o' drow in the air besides--there's nae time for considering--But,
sir, as I was saying, ye awe me money--it winna deny--ye awe me money, less or mair, I'll stand
by it. But then, Mr. Owen, I canna see how you, an active man that understands business, can
redd out the business ye're come down about, and clear us a' aff--as I have gritt hope ye will--if
ye're keepit lying here in the tolbooth of Glasgow. Now, sir, if you can find caution judicio
sisti,--that is, that ye winna flee the country, but appear and relieve your caution when ca'd
for in our legal courts, ye may be set at liberty this very morning."

"Mr. Jarvie," said Owen, "if any friend would become surety for me to that effect, my liberty
might be usefully employed, doubtless, both for the house and all connected with it."

"Aweel, sir," continued Jarvie, "and doubtless such a friend wad expect ye to appear when ca'd
on, and relieve him o' his engagement."

"And I should do so as certainly, bating sickness or death, as that two and two make four."

"Aweel, Mr. Owen," resumed the citizen of Glasgow, "I dinna misdoubt ye, and I'll prove it,
sir--I'll prove it. I am a carefu' man, as is weel ken'd, and industrious, as the hale town
can testify; and I can win my crowns, and keep my crowns, and count my crowns, wi' onybody
in the Saut Market, or it may be in the Gallowgate. And I'm a prudent man, as my father the
deacon was before me;--but rather than an honest civil gentleman, that understands business,
and is willing to do justice to all men, should lie by the heels this gate, unable to help
himsell or onybody else--why, conscience, man! I'll be your bail myself--But ye'll mind it's
a bail judicio sisti, as our town-clerk says, not judicatum solvi; ye'll mind that, for there's
muckle difference."

Mr. Owen assured him, that as matters then stood, he could not expect any one to become surety
for the actual payment of the debt, but that there was not the most distant cause for apprehending
loss from his failing to present himself when lawfully called upon.

"I believe ye--I believe ye. Eneugh said--eneugh said. We'se hae your legs loose by breakfast-time.--And
now let's hear what thir chamber chiels o' yours hae to say for themselves, or how, in the
name of unrule, they got here at this time o' night."

CHAPTER SIXTH.

                        Hame came our gudeman at e'en,
                           And hame came he,
                        And there he saw a man
                           Where a man suldna be.
                       "How's this now, kimmer?
                           How's this?" quo he,--
                       "How came this carle here
                           Without the leave o' me?"
                                           Old Song.

The magistrate took the light out of the servant-maid's hand, and advanced to his scrutiny,
like Diogenes in the street of Athens, lantern-in-hand, and probably with as little expectation
as that of the cynic, that he was likely to encounter any especial treasure in the course of
his researches. The first whom he approached was my mysterious guide, who, seated on a table
as I have already described him, with his eyes firmly fixed on the wall, his features arranged
into the utmost inflexibility of expression, his hands folded on his breast with an air betwixt
carelessness and defiance, his heel patting against the foot of the table, to keep time with
the tune which he continued to whistle, submitted to Mr. Jarvie's investigation with an air
of absolute confidence and assurance which, for a moment, placed at fault the memory and sagacity
of the acute investigator.

"Ah!--Eh!--Oh!" exclaimed the Bailie. "My conscience!--it's impossible!--and yet--no!--Conscience!--it
canna be!--and yet again--Deil hae me, that I suld say sae!--Ye robber--ye cateran--ye born
deevil that ye are, to a' bad ends and nae gude ane!--can this be you?"

"E'en as ye see, Bailie," was the laconic answer.

"Conscience! if I am na clean bumbaized--you, ye cheat-the-wuddy rogue--you here on your venture
in the tolbooth o' Glasgow?--What d'ye think's the value o' your head?"

"Umph!--why, fairly weighed, and Dutch weight, it might weigh down one provost's, four bailies',
a town-clerk's, six deacons', besides stent-masters'"--

"Ah, ye reiving villain!" interrupted Mr. Jarvie. "But tell ower your sins, and prepare ye,
for if I say the word"--

"True, Bailie," said he who was thus addressed, folding his hands behind him with the utmost
nonchalance, "but ye will never say that word."

"And why suld I not, sir?" exclaimed the magistrate--"Why suld I not? Answer me that--why suld
I not?"

"For three sufficient reasons, Bailie Jarvie.--First, for auld langsyne; second, for the sake
of the auld wife ayont the fire at Stuckavrallachan, that made some mixture of our bluids,
to my own proper shame be it spoken! that has a cousin wi' accounts, and yarn winnles, and
looms and shuttles, like a mere mechanical person; and lastly, Bailie, because if I saw a sign
o' your betraying me, I would plaster that wa' with your harns ere the hand of man could rescue
you!"

"Ye're a bauld desperate villain, sir," retorted the undaunted Bailie; "and ye ken that I ken
ye to be sae, and that I wadna stand a moment for my ain risk."

"I ken weel," said the other, "ye hae gentle bluid in your veins, and I wad be laith to hurt
my ain kinsman. But I'll gang out here as free as I came in, or the very wa's o' Glasgow tolbooth
shall tell o't these ten years to come."

"Weel, weel," said Mr. Jarvie, "bluid's thicker than water; and it liesna in kith, kin, and
ally, to see motes in ilka other's een if other een see them no. It wad be sair news to the
auld wife below the Ben of Stuckavrallachan, that you, ye Hieland limmer, had knockit out my
harns, or that I had kilted you up in a tow. But ye'll own, ye dour deevil, that were it no
your very sell, I wad hae grippit the best man in the Hielands."

"Ye wad hae tried, cousin," answered my guide, "that I wot weel; but I doubt ye wad hae come
aff wi' the short measure; for we gang-there-out Hieland bodies are an unchancy generation
when you speak to us o' bondage. We downa bide the coercion of gude braid-claith about our
hinderlans, let a be breeks o' free-stone, and garters o' iron."

"Ye'll find the stane breeks and the airn garters--ay, and the hemp cravat, for a' that, neighbour,"
replied the Bailie.

"Nae man in a civilised country ever played the pliskies ye hae done--but e'en pickle in your
ain pock-neuk--I hae gi'en ye wanting."

"Well, cousin," said the other, "ye'll wear black at my burial."

"Deil a black cloak will be there, Robin, but the corbies and the hoodie-craws, I'se gie ye
my hand on that. But whar's the gude thousand pund Scots that I lent ye, man, and when am I
to see it again?"

"Where it is," replied my guide, after the affectation of considering for a moment, "I cannot
justly tell--probably where last year's snaw is."

"And that's on the tap of Schehallion, ye Hieland dog," said Mr. Jarvie; "and I look for payment
frae you where ye stand."

"Ay," replied the Highlander, "but I keep neither snaw nor dollars in my sporran. And as to
when you'll see it--why, just when the king enjoys his ain again, as the auld sang says."

"Warst of a', Robin," retorted the Glaswegian,--"I mean, ye disloyal traitor--Warst of a'!--Wad
ye bring popery in on us, and arbitrary power, and a foist and a warming-pan, and the set forms,
and the curates, and the auld enormities o' surplices and cerements? Ye had better stick to
your auld trade o' theft-boot, black-mail, spreaghs, and gillravaging--better stealing nowte
than ruining nations."

"Hout, man--whisht wi' your whiggery," answered the Celt; "we hae ken'd ane anither mony a
lang day. I'se take care your counting-room is no cleaned out when the Gillon-a-naillie* come
to redd up the Glasgow buiths, and clear them o' their auld shop-wares.

* The lads with the kilts or petticoats.

And, unless it just fa' in the preceese way o' your duty, ye maunna see me oftener, Nicol,
than I am disposed to be seen."

"Ye are a dauring villain, Rob," answered the Bailie; "and ye will be hanged, that will be
seen and heard tell o'; but I'se ne'er be the ill bird and foul my nest, set apart strong necessity
and the skreigh of duty, which no man should hear and be inobedient. And wha the deevil's this?"
he continued, turning to me--"Some gillravager that ye hae listed, I daur say. He looks as
if he had a bauld heart to the highway, and a lang craig for the gibbet."

"This, good Mr. Jarvie," said Owen, who, like myself, had been struck dumb during this strange
recognition, and no less strange dialogue, which took place betwixt these extraordinary kinsmen--"This,
good Mr. Jarvie, is young Mr. Frank Osbaldistone, only child of the head of our house, who
should have been taken into our firm at the time Mr. Rashleigh Osbaldistone, his cousin, had
the luck to be taken into it"--(Here Owen could not suppress a groan)--"But howsoever"--

"Oh, I have heard of that smaik," said the Scotch merchant, interrupting him; "it is he whom
your principal, like an obstinate auld fule, wad make a merchant o', wad he or wad he no,--and
the lad turned a strolling stage-player, in pure dislike to the labour an honest man should
live by. Weel, sir, what say you to your handiwork? Will Hamlet the Dane, or Hamlet's ghost,
be good security for Mr. Owen, sir?"

"I don't deserve your taunt," I replied, "though I respect your motive, and am too grateful
for the assistance you have afforded Mr. Owen, to resent it. My only business here was to do
what I could (it is perhaps very little) to aid Mr. Owen in the management of my father's affairs.
My dislike of the commercial profession is a feeling of which I am the best and sole judge."

"I protest," said the Highlander, "I had some respect for this callant even before I ken'd
what was in him; but now I honour him for his contempt of weavers and spinners, and sic-like
mechanical persons and their pursuits."

"Ye're mad, Rob," said the Bailie--"mad as a March hare--though wherefore a hare suld be mad
at March mair than at Martinmas, is mair than I can weel say. Weavers! Deil shake ye out o'
the web the weaver craft made. Spinners! ye'll spin and wind yourself a bonny pirn. And this
young birkie here, that ye're hoying and hounding on the shortest road to the gallows and the
deevil, will his stage-plays and his poetries help him here, dye think, ony mair than your
deep oaths and drawn dirks, ye reprobate that ye are?--Will Tityre tu patulae, as they ca'
it, tell him where Rashleigh Osbaldistone is? or Macbeth, and all his kernes and galla-glasses,
and your awn to boot, Rob, procure him five thousand pounds to answer the bills which fall
due ten days hence, were they a' rouped at the Cross,--basket-hilts, Andra-Ferraras, leather
targets, brogues, brochan, and sporrans?"

"Ten days," I answered, and instinctively drew out Diana Vernon's packet; and the time being
elapsed during which I was to keep the seal sacred, I hastily broke it open. A sealed letter
fell from a blank enclosure, owing to the trepidation with which I opened the parcel. A slight
current of wind, which found its way through a broken pane of the window, wafted the letter
to Mr. Jarvie's feet, who lifted it, examined the address with unceremonious curiosity, and,
to my astonishment, handed itto his Highland kinsman, saying, "Here's a wind has blown a letter
to its right owner, though there were ten thousand chances against its coming to hand."

The Highlander, having examined the address, broke the letter open without the least ceremony.
I endeavoured to interrupt his proceeding.

"You must satisfy me, sir," said I, "that the letter is intended for you before I can permit
you to peruse it."

"Make yourself quite easy, Mr. Osbaldistone," replied the mountaineer with great composure.--"remember
Justice Inglewood, Clerk Jobson, Mr. Morris--above all, remember your vera humble servant,
Robert Cawmil, and the beautiful Diana Vernon. Remember all this, and doubt no longer that
the letter is for me."

I remained astonished at my own stupidity.--Through the whole night, the voice, and even the
features of this man, though imperfectly seen, haunted me with recollections to which I could
assign no exact local or personal associations. But now the light dawned on me at once; this
man was Campbell himself. His whole peculiarities flashed on me at once,--the deep strong voice--the
inflexible, stern, yet considerate cast of features--the Scottish brogue, with its corresponding
dialect and imagery, which, although he possessed the power at times of laying them aside,
recurred at every moment of emotion, and gave pith to his sarcasm, or vehemence to his expostulation.
Two points in his person interfered with the rules of symmetry; his shoulders were so broad
in proportion to his height, as, notwithstanding the lean and lathy appearance of his frame,
gave him something the air of being too square in respect to his stature; and his arms, though
round, sinewy, and strong, were so very long as to be rather a deformity. I afterwards heard
that this length of arm was a circumstance on which he prided himself; that when he wore his
native Highland garb, he could tie the garters of his hose without stooping; and that it gave
him great advantage in the use of the broad-sword, at which he was very dexterous. But certainly
this want of symmetry destroyed the claim he might otherwise have set up, to be accounted a
very handsome man; it gave something wild, irregular, and, as it were, unearthly, to his appearance,
and reminded me involuntarily of the tales which Mabel used to tell of the old Picts who ravaged
Northumberland in ancient times, who, according to her tradition, were a sort of half-goblin
half-human beings, distinguished, like this man, for courage, cunning, ferocity, the length
of their arms, and the squareness of their shoulders.

When, however, I recollected the circumstances in which we formerly met, I could not doubt
that the billet was most probably designed for him. He had made a marked figure among those
mysterious personages over whom Diana seemed to exercise an influence, and from whom she experienced
an influence in her turn. It was painful to think that the fate of a being so amiable was involved
in that of desperadoes of this man's description;--yet it seemed impossible to doubt it. Of
what use, however, could this person be to my father's affairs?--I could think only of one.
Rashleigh Osbaldistone had, at the instigation of Miss Vernon, certainly found means to produce
Mr. Campbell when his presence was necessary to exculpate me from Morris's accusation--Was
it not possible that her influence, in like manner, might prevail on Campbell to produce Rashleigh?
Speaking on this supposition, I requested to know where my dangerous kinsman was, and when
Mr. Campbell had seen him. The answer was indirect.

"It's a kittle cast she has gien me to play; but yet it's fair play, and I winna baulk her.
Mr. Osbaldistone, I dwell not very far from hence--my kinsman can show you the way--Leave Mr.
Owen to do the best he can in Glasgow--do you come and see me in the glens, and it's like I
may pleasure you, and stead your father in his extremity. I am but a poor man; but wit's better
than wealth--and, cousin" (turning from me to address Mr. Jarvie), "if ye daur venture sae
muckle as to eat a dish of Scotch collops, and a leg o' red-deer venison wi' me, come ye wi'
this Sassenach gentleman as far as Drymen or Bucklivie,--or the Clachan of Aberfoil will be
better than ony o' them,--and I'll hae somebody waiting to weise ye the gate to the place where
I may be for the time--What say ye, man? There's my thumb, I'll ne'er beguile thee."

"Na, na, Robin," said the cautious burgher, "I seldom like to leave the Gorbals;* I have nae
freedom to gang among your wild hills, Robin, and your kilted red-shanks--it disna become my
place, man."

* [The Gorbals or "suburbs" are situate on the south side of the River.]

"The devil damn your place and you baith!" reiterated Campbell. "The only drap o' gentle bluid
that's in your body was our great-grand-uncle's that was justified* at Dumbarton, and you set
yourself up to say ye wad derogate frae your place to visit me!

* [Executed for treason.]

Hark thee, man--I owe thee a day in harst--I'll pay up your thousan pund Scots, plack and bawbee,
gin ye'll be an honest fallow for anes, and just daiker up the gate wi' this Sassenach."

"Hout awa' wi' your gentility," replied the Bailie; "carry your gentle bluid to the Cross,
and see what ye'll buy wi't. But, if I were to come, wad ye really and soothfastly pay me the
siller?"

"I swear to ye," said the Highlander, "upon the halidome of him that sleeps beneath the grey
stane at Inch-Cailleach."*

* Inch-Cailleach is an island in Lochlomond, where the clan of MacGregor were wont to be interred,
and where their sepulchres may still be seen. It formerly contained a nunnery: hence the name
of Inch-Cailleach, or the island of Old Women.

"Say nae mair, Robin--say nae mair--We'll see what may be dune. But ye maunna expect me to
gang ower the Highland line--I'll gae beyond the line at no rate. Ye maun meet me about Bucklivie
or the Clachan of Aberfoil,--and dinna forget the needful."

"Nae fear--nae fear," said Campbell; "I'll be as true as the steel blade that never failed
its master. But I must be budging, cousin, for the air o' Glasgow tolbooth is no that ower
salutary to a Highlander's constitution."

"Troth," replied the merchant, "and if my duty were to be dune, ye couldna change your atmosphere,
as the minister ca's it, this ae wee while.--Ochon, that I sud ever be concerned in aiding
and abetting an escape frae justice! it will be a shame and disgrace to me and mine, and my
very father's memory, for ever."

"Hout tout, man! let that flee stick in the wa'," answered his kinsman; "when the dirt's dry
it will rub out--Your father, honest man, could look ower a friend's fault as weel as anither."

"Ye may be right, Robin," replied the Bailie, after a moment's reflection; "he was a considerate
man the deacon; he ken'd we had a' our frailties, and he lo'ed his friends--Ye'll no hae forgotten
him, Robin?" This question he put in a softened tone, conveying as much at least of the ludicrous
as the pathetic.

"Forgotten him!" replied his kinsman--"what suld ail me to forget him?--a wapping weaver he
was, and wrought my first pair o' hose.--But come awa', kinsman,

              Come fill up my cap, come fill up my cann,
              Come saddle my horses, and call up my man;
              Come open your gates, and let me gae free,
                   I daurna stay langer in bonny Dundee."

"Whisht, sir!" said the magistrate, in an authoritative tone--"lilting and singing sae near
the latter end o' the Sabbath! This house may hear ye sing anither tune yet--Aweel, we hae
a' backslidings to answer for--Stanchells, open the door."

The jailor obeyed, and we all sallied forth. Stanchells looked with some surprise at the two
strangers, wondering, doubtless, how they came into these premises without his knowledge; but
Mr. Jarvie's "Friends o' mine, Stanchells--friends o' mine," silenced all disposition to inquiries.
We now descended into the lower vestibule, and hallooed more than once for Dougal, to which
summons no answer was returned; when Campbell observed with a sardonic smile, "That if Dougal
was the lad he kent him, he would scarce wait to get thanks for his ain share of the night's
wark, but was in all probability on the full trot to the pass of Ballamaha"--

"And left us--and, abune a', me, mysell, locked up in the tolbooth a' night!" exclaimed the
Bailie, in ire and perturbation. "Ca' for forehammers, sledge-hammers, pinches, and coulters;
send for Deacon Yettlin, the smith, an let him ken that Bailie Jarvie's shut up in the tolbooth
by a Highland blackguard, whom he'll hang up as high as Haman"--

"When ye catch him," said Campbell, gravely; "but stay--the door is surely not locked."

Indeed, on examination, we found that the door was not only left open, but that Dougal in his
retreat had, by carrying off the keys along with him, taken care that no one should exercise
his office of porter in a hurry.

"He has glimmerings o' common sense now, that creature Dougal," said Campbell.--"he ken'd an
open door might hae served me at a pinch."

We were by this time in the street.

"I tell you, Robin," said the magistrate, "in my puir mind, if ye live the life ye do, ye suld
hae ane o' your gillies door-keeper in every jail in Scotland, in case o' the warst."

"Ane o' my kinsmen a bailie in ilka burgh will just do as weel, cousin Nicol--So, gude-night
or gude-morning to ye; and forget not the Clachan of Aberfoil."

And without waiting for an answer, he sprung to the other side of the street, and was lost
in darkness. Immediately on his disappearance, we heard him give a low whistle of peculiar
modulation, which was instantly replied to.

"Hear to the Hieland deevils," said Mr. Jarvie; "they think themselves on the skirts of Benlomond
already, where they may gang whewingand whistling about without minding Sunday or Saturday."
Here he was interrupted by something which fell with a heavy clash on the street before us--"Gude
guide us what's this mair o't?--Mattie, haud up the lantern--Conscience if it isna the keys!--Weel,
that's just as weel--they cost the burgh siller, and there might hae been some clavers about
the loss o' them. O, an Bailie Grahame were to get word o' this night's job, it would be a
sair hair in my neck!"

As we were still but a few steps from the tolbooth door, we carried back these implements of
office, and consigned them to the head jailor, who, in lieu of the usual mode of making good
his post by turning the keys, was keeping sentry in the vestibule till the arrival of some
assistant, whom he had summoned in order to replace the Celtic fugitive Dougal.

Having discharged this piece of duty to the burgh, and my road lying the same way with the
honest magistrate's, I profited by the light of his lantern, and he by my arm, to find our
way through the streets, which, whatever they may now be, were then dark, uneven, and ill-paved.
Age is easily propitiated by attentions from the young. The Bailie expressed himself interested
in me, and added, "That since I was nane o' that play-acting and play-ganging generation, whom
his saul hated, he wad be glad if I wad eat a reisted haddock or a fresh herring, at breakfast
wi' him the morn, and meet my friend, Mr. Owen, whom, by that time, he would place at liberty."

"My dear sir," said I, when I had accepted of the invitation with thanks, "how could you possibly
connect me with the stage?"

"I watna," replied Mr. Jarvie;--"it was a bletherin' phrasin' chield they ca' Fairservice,
that cam at e'en to get an order to send the crier through the toun for ye at skreigh o' day
the morn. He tell't me whae ye were, and how ye were sent frae your father's house because
ye wadna be a dealer, and that ye mightna disgrace your family wi' ganging on the stage. Ane
Hammorgaw, our precentor, brought him here, and said he was an auld acquaintance; but I sent
them both away wi' a flae in their lug for bringing me sic an errand, on sic a night. But I
see he's a fule-creature a'thegither, and clean mistaen about ye. I like ye, man," he continued;
"I like a lad that will stand by his friends in trouble--I aye did it mysell, and sae did the
deacon my father, rest and bless him! But ye suldna keep ower muckle company wi' Hielandmen
and thae wild cattle. Can a man touch pitch and no be defiled?--aye mind that. Nae doubt, the
best and wisest may err--Once, twice, and thrice have I backslidden, man, and dune three things
this night--my father wadna hae believed his een if he could hae looked up and seen me do them."

He was by this time arrived at the door of his own dwelling. He paused, however, on the threshold,
and went on in a solemn tone of deep contrition,--"Firstly, I hae thought my ain thoughts on
the Sabbath--secondly, I hae gi'en security for an Englishman--and, in the third and last place,
well-a-day! I hae let an ill-doer escape from the place of imprisonment--But there's balm in
Gilead, Mr. Osbaldistone-- Mattie, I can let mysell in--see Mr. Osbaldistone to Luckie Flyter's,
at the corner o' the wynd.--Mr. Osbaldistone"--in a whisper--"ye'll offer nae incivility to
Mattie--she's an honest man's daughter, and a near cousin o' the Laird o' Limmerfield's."

CHAPTER SEVENTH.

     "Will it please your worship to accept of my poor service? I beseech
     that I may feed upon your bread, though it be the brownest, and
     drink of your drink, though it be of the smallest; for I will do
     your Worship as much service for forty shillings as another man
     shall for three pounds."
                                     Greene's Tu Quoque.

I remembered the honest Bailie's parting charge, but did not conceive there was any incivility
in adding a kiss to the half-crown with which I remunerated Mattie's attendance;--nor did her
"Fie for shame, sir!" express any very deadly resentment of the affront. Repeated knocking
at Mrs. Flyter's gate awakened in due order, first, one or two stray dogs, who began to bark
with all their might; next two or three night-capped heads, which were thrust out of the neighbouring
windows to reprehend me for disturbing the solemnity of the Sunday night by that untimely noise.
While I trembled lest the thunders of their wrath might dissolve in showers like that of Xantippe,
Mrs. Flyter herself awoke, and began, in a tone of objurgation not unbecoming the philosophical
spouse of Socrates, to scold one or two loiterers in her kitchen, for not hastening to the
door to prevent a repetition of my noisy summons.

These worthies were, indeed, nearly concerned in the fracas which their laziness occasioned,
being no other than the faithful Mr. Fairservice, with his friend Mr. Hammorgaw, and another
person, whom I afterwards found to be the town-crier, who were sitting over a cog of ale, as
they called it (at my expense, as my bill afterwards informed me), in order to devise the terms
and style of a proclamation to be made through the streets the next day, in order that "the
unfortunate young gentleman," as they had the impudence to qualify me, might be restored to
his friends without farther delay. It may be supposed that I did not suppress my displeasure
at this impertinent interference with my affairs; but Andrew set up such ejaculations of transport
at my arrival, as fairly drowned my expressions of resentment. His raptures, perchance, were
partly political; and the tears of joy which he shed had certainly their source in that noble
fountain of emotion, the tankard. However, the tumultuous glee which he felt, or pretended
to feel, at my return, saved Andrew the broken head which I had twice destined him;--first,
on account of the colloquy he had held with the precentor on my affairs; and secondly, for
the impertinent history he had thought proper to give of me to Mr. Jarvie. I however contented
myself with slapping the door of my bedroom in his face as he followed me, praising Heaven
for my safe return, and mixing his joy with admonitions to me to take care how I walked my
own ways in future. I then went to bed, resolving my first business in the morning should be
to discharge this troublesome, pedantic, self-conceited coxcomb, who seemed so much disposed
to constitute himself rather a preceptor than a domestic.

Accordingly in the morning I resumed my purpose, and calling Andrew into my, apartment, requested
to know his charge for guiding and attending me as far as Glasgow. Mr. Fairservice looked very
blank at this demand, justly considering it as a presage to approaching dismission.

"Your honour," he said, after some hesitation, "wunna think--wunna think"--

"Speak out, you rascal, or I'll break your head," said I, as Andrew, between the double risk
of losing all by asking too much, or a part, by stating his demand lower than what I might
be willing to pay, stood gasping in the agony of doubt and calculation.

Out it came with a bolt, however, at my threat; as the kind violence of a blow on the back
sometimes delivers the windpipe from an intrusive morsel.--"Aughteen pennies sterling per diem--that
is, by the day--your honour wadna think unconscionable."

"It is double what is usual, and treble what you merit, Andrew; but there's a guinea for you,
and get about your business."

"The Lord forgi'e us! Is your honour mad?" exclaimed Andrew.

"No; but I think you mean to make me so--I give you a third above your demand, and you stand
staring and expostulating there as if I were cheating you. Take your money, and go about your
business."

"Gude safe us!" continued Andrew, "in what can I hae offended your honour? Certainly a' flesh
is but as the flowers of the field; but if a bed of camomile hath value in medicine, of a surety
the use of Andrew Fairservice to your honour is nothing less evident--it's as muckle as your
life's worth to part wi' me."

"Upon my honour," replied I, "it is difficult to say whether you are more knave or fool. So
you intend then to remain with me whether I like it or no?"

"Your place, sir!" said I;--"why, you are no hired servant of mine,--you are merely a guide,
whose knowledge of the country I availed myself of on my road."

"I am no just a common servant, I admit, sir," remonstrated Mr. Fairservice; "but your honour
kens I quitted a gude place at an hour's notice, to comply wi' your honour's solicitations.
A man might make honestly, and wi' a clear conscience, twenty sterling pounds per annum, weel
counted siller, o' the garden at Osbaldistone Hall, and I wasna likely to gi'e up a' that for
a guinea, I trow--I reckoned on staying wi' your honour to the term's end at the least o't;
and I account my wage, board-wage, fee and bountith,--ay, to that length o't at the least."

"Come, come, sir," replied I, "these impudent pretensions won't serve your turn; and if I hear
any more of them, I shall convince you that Squire Thorncliff is not the only one of my name
that can use his fingers."

While I spoke thus, the whole matter struck me as so ridiculous, that, though really angry,
I had some difficulty to forbear laughing at the gravity with which Andrew supported a plea
so utterly extravagant. The rascal, aware of the impression he had made on my muscles, was
encouraged to perseverance. He judged it safer, however, to take his pretensions a peg lower,
in case of overstraining at the same time both his plea and my patience.

"Admitting that my honour could part with a faithful servant, that had served me and mine by
day and night for twenty years, in a strange place, and at a moment's warning, he was weel
assured," he said, "it wasna in my heart, nor in no true gentleman's, to pit a puir lad like
himself, that had come forty or fifty, or say a hundred miles out o' his road purely to bear
my honour company, and that had nae handing but his penny-fee, to sic a hardship as this comes to."

I think it was you, Will, who once told me, that, to be an obstinate man, I am in certain things
the most gullable and malleable of mortals. The fact is, that it is only contradiction which
makes me peremptory, and when I do not feel myself called on to give battle to any proposition,
I am always willing to grant it, rather than give myself much trouble. I knew this fellow to
be a greedy, tiresome, meddling coxcomb; still, however, I must have some one about me in the
quality of guide and domestic, and I was so much used to Andrew's humour, that on some occasions
it was rather amusing. In the state of indecision to which these reflections led me, I asked
Fairservice if he knew the roads, towns, etc., in the north of Scotland, to which my father's
concerns with the proprietors of Highland forests were likely to lead me. I believe if I had
asked him the road to the terrestrial paradise, he would have at that moment undertaken to
guide me to it; so that I had reason afterwards to think myself fortunate in finding that his
actual knowledge did not fall very much short of that which he asserted himself to possess.
I fixed the amount of his wages, and reserved to myself the privilege of dismissing him when
I chose, on paying him a week in advance. I gave him finally a severe lecture on his conduct
of the preceding day, and then dismissed him rejoicing at heart, though somewhat crestfallen
in countenance, to rehearse to his friend the precentor, who was taking his morning draught
in the kitchen, the mode in which he had "cuitled up the daft young English squire."

Agreeable to appointment, I went next to Bailie Nicol Jarvie's, where a comfortable morning's
repast was arranged in the parlour, which served as an apartment of all hours, and almost all
work, to that honest gentleman. The bustling and benevolent magistrate had been as good as
his word. I found my friend Owen at liberty, and, conscious of the refreshments and purification
of brush and basin, was of course a very different person from Owen a prisoner, squalid, heart-broken,
and hopeless. Yet the sense of pecuniary difficulties arising behind, before, and around him,
had depressed his spirit, and the almost paternal embrace which the good man gave me, was embittered
by a sigh of the deepest anxiety. And when he sate down, the heaviness in his eye and manner,
so different from the quiet composed satisfaction which they usually exhibited, indicated that
he was employing his arithmetic in mentally numbering up the days, the hours, the minutes,
which yet remained as an interval between the dishonour of bills and the downfall of the great
commercial establishment of Osbaldistone and Tresham. It was left to me, therefore, to do honour
to our landlord's hospitable cheer--to his tea, right from China, which he got in a present
from some eminent ship's-husband at Wapping--to his coffee, from a snug plantation of his own,
as he informed us with a wink, called Saltmarket Grove, in the island of Jamaica--to his English
toast and ale, his Scotch dried salmon, his Lochfine herrings, and even to the double-damask
table-cloth, "wrought by no hand, as you may guess," save that of his deceased father the worthy
Deacon Jarvie.

Having conciliated our good-humoured host by those little attentions which are great to most
men, I endeavoured in my turn to gain from him some information which might be useful for my
guidance, as well as for the satisfaction of my curiosity. We had not hitherto made the least
allusion to the transactions of the preceding night, a circumstance which made my question
sound somewhat abrupt, when, without any previous introduction of the subject, I took advantage
of a pause when the history of the table-cloth ended, and that of the napkins was about to
commence, to inquire, "Pray, by the by, Mr. Jarvie, who may this Mr. Robert Campbell be, whom
we met with last night?"

The interrogatory seemed to strike the honest magistrate, to use the vulgar phrase, "all of
a heap," and instead of answering, he returned the question--"Whae's Mr. Robert Campbell?--ahem!
ahay! Whae's Mr. Robert Campbell, quo' he?"

"Yes," said I, "I mean who and what is he?"

"Why, he's--ahay!--he's--ahem!--Where did ye meet with Mr. Robert Campbell, as ye ca' him?"

"I met him by chance," I replied, "some months ago in the north of England."

"Ou then, Mr. Osbaldistone," said the Bailie, doggedly, "ye'll ken as muckle about him as I do."

"I should suppose not, Mr. Jarvie," I replied;--"you are his relation, it seems, and his friend."

"There is some cousin-red between us, doubtless," said the Bailie reluctantly; "but we hae
seen little o' ilk other since Rob gae tip the cattle-line o' dealing, poor fallow! he was
hardly guided by them might hae used him better--and they haena made their plack a bawbee o't
neither. There's mony ane this day wad rather they had never chased puir Robin frae the Cross
o' Glasgow--there's mony ane wad rather see him again at the tale o' three hundred kyloes,
than at the head o' thirty waur cattle."

"All this explains nothing to me, Mr. Jarvie, of Mr. Campbell's rank, habits of life, and means
of subsistence," I replied.

"Rank?" said Mr. Jarvie; "he's a Hieland gentleman, nae doubt--better rank need nane to be;--and
for habit, I judge he wears the Hieland habit amang the hills, though he has breeks on when
he comes to Glasgow;--and as for his subsistence, what needs we care about his subsistence,
sae lang as he asks naething frae us, ye ken? But I hae nae time for clavering about him e'en
now, because we maun look into your father's concerns wi' all speed."

So saying, he put on his spectacles, and sate down to examine Mr. Owen's states, which the
other thought it most prudent to communicate to him without reserve. I knew enough of business
to be aware that nothing could be more acute and sagacious than the views which Mr. Jarvie
entertained of the matters submitted to his examination; and, to do him justice, it was marked
by much fairness, and even liberality. He scratched his ear indeed repeatedly on observing
the balance which stood at the debit of Osbaldistone and Tresham in account with himself personally.

"It may be a dead loss," he observed; "and, conscience! whate'er ane o' your Lombard Street
goldsmiths may say to it, it's a snell ane in the Saut-Market* o' Glasgow. It will be a heavy
deficit--a staff out o' my bicker, I trow.

* [The Saltmarket. This ancient street, situate in the heart of Glasgow, has of late been almost
entirely renovated.]

But what then?--I trust the house wunna coup the crane for a' that's come and gane yet; and
if it does, I'll never bear sae base a mind as thae corbies in the Gallowgate--an I am to lose
by ye, I'se ne'er deny I hae won by ye mony a fair pund sterling--Sae, an it come to the warst,
I'se een lay the head o' the sow to the tail o' the grice."*

* Anglice, the head of the sow to the tail of the pig.

I did not altogether understand the proverbial arrangement with which Mr. Jarvie consoled himself,
but I could easily see that he took a kind and friendly interest in the arrangement of my father's
affairs, suggested several expedients, approved several plans proposed by Owen, and by his
countenance and counsel greatly abated the gloom upon the brow of that afflicted delegate of
my father's establishment.

As I was an idle spectator on this occasion, and, perhaps, as I showed some inclination more
than once to return to the prohibited, and apparently the puzzling subject of Mr. Campbell,
Mr. Jarvie dismissed me with little formality, with an advice to "gang up the gate to the college,
where I wad find some chields could speak Greek and Latin weel--at least they got plenty o'
siller for doing deil haet else, if they didna do that; and where I might read a spell o' the
worthy Mr. Zachary Boyd's translation o' the Scriptures--better poetry need nane to be, as
he had been tell'd by them that ken'd or suld hae ken'd about sic things." But he seasoned
this dismission with a kind and hospitable invitation "to come back and take part o' his family-chack
at ane preceesely--there wad be a leg o' mutton, and, it might be, a tup's head, for they were
in season;" but above all, I was to return at "ane o'clock preceesely--it was the hour he and
the deacon his father aye dined at--they pat it off for naething nor for naebody."

CHAPTER EIGHTH.

              So stands the Thracian herdsman with his spear
              Full in the gap, and hopes the hunted bear;
              And hears him in the rustling wood, and sees
              His course at distance by the bending trees,
                  And thinks--Here comes my mortal enemy,
                  And either he must fall in fight, or I.
                                         Palamon and Arcite.

I took the route towards the college, as recommended by Mr. Jarvie, less with the intention
of seeking for any object of interest or amusement, than to arrange my own ideas, and meditate
on my future conduct. I wandered from one quadrangle of old-fashioned buildings to another,
and from thence to the College-yards, or walking ground, where, pleased with the solitude of
the place, most of the students being engaged in their classes, I took several turns, pondering
on the waywardness of my own destiny.

I could not doubt, from the circumstances attending my first meeting with this person Campbell,
that he was engaged in some strangely desperate courses; and the reluctance with which Mr.
Jarvie alluded to his person or pursuits, as well as all the scene of the preceding night,
tended to confirm these suspicions. Yet to this man Diana Vernon had not, it would seem, hesitated
to address herself in my behalf; and the conduct of the magistrate himself towards him showed
an odd mixture of kindness, and even respect, with pity and censure. Something there must be
uncommon in Campbell's situation and character; and what was still more extraordinary, it seemed
that his fate was doomed to have influence over, and connection with, my own. I resolved to
bring Mr. Jarvie to close quarters on the first proper opportunity, and learn as much as was
possible on the subject of this mysterious person, in order that I might judge whether it was
possible for me, without prejudice to my reputation, to hold that degree of farther correspondence
with him to which he seemed to invite.

While I was musing on these subjects, my attention was attracted by three persons who appeared
at the upper end of the walk through which I was sauntering, seemingly engaged in very earnest
conversation. That intuitive impression which announces to us the approach of whomsoever we
love or hate with intense vehemence, long before a more indifferent eye can recognise their
persons, flashed upon my mind the sure conviction that the midmost of these three men was Rashleigh
Osbaldistone. To address him was my first impulse;--my second was, to watch him until he was
alone, or at least to reconnoitre his companions before confronting him. The party was still
at such distance, and engaged in such deep discourse, that I had time to step unobserved to
the other side of a small hedge, which imperfectly screened the alley in which I was walking.
It was at this period the fashion of the young and gay to wear, in their morning walks, a scarlet
cloak, often laced and embroidered, above their other dress, and it was the trick of the time
for gallants occasionally to dispose it so as to muffle a part of the face. The imitating this
fashion, with the degree of shelter which I received from the hedge, enabled me to meet my
cousin, unobserved by him or the others, except perhaps as a passing stranger. I was not a
little startled at recognising in his companions that very Morris on whose account I had been
summoned before Justice Inglewood, and Mr. MacVittie the merchant, from whose starched and
severe aspect I had recoiled on the preceding day.

A more ominous conjunction to my own affairs, and those of my father, could scarce have been
formed. I remembered Morris's false accusation against me, which he might be as easily induced
to renew as he had been intimidated to withdraw; I recollected the inauspicious influence of
MacVittie over my father's affairs, testified by the imprisonment of Owen;--and I now saw both
these men combined with one, whose talent for mischief I deemed little inferior to those of
the great author of all ill, and my abhorrence of whom almost amounted to dread.

When they had passed me for some paces, I turned and followed them unobserved. At the end of
the walk they separated, Morris and MacVittie leaving the gardens, and Rashleigh returning
alone through the walks. I was now determined to confront him, and demand reparation for the
injuries he had done my father, though in what form redress was likely to be rendered remained
to be known. This, however, I trusted to chance; and flinging back the cloak in which I was
muffled, I passed through a gap of the low hedge, and presented myself before Rashleigh, as,
in a deep reverie, he paced down the avenue.

Rashleigh was no man to be surprised or thrown off his guard by sudden occurrences. Yet he
did not find me thus close to him, wearing undoubtedly in my face the marks of that indignation
which was glowing in my bosom, without visibly starting at an apparition so sudden and menacing.

"You are well met, sir," was my commencement; "I was about to take a long and doubtful journey
in quest of you."

"You know little of him you sought then," replied Rashleigh, with his usual undaunted composure.
"I am easily found by my friends--still more easily by my foes;--your manner compels me to
ask in which class I must rank Mr. Francis Osbaldistone?"

"In that of your foes, sir," I answered--"in that of your mortal foes, unless you instantly
do justice to your benefactor, my father, by accounting for his property."

"And to whom, Mr. Osbaldistone," answered Rashleigh, "am I, a member of your father's commercial
establishment, to be compelled to give any account of my proceedings in those concerns, which
are in every respect identified with my own?--Surely not to a young gentleman whose exquisite
taste for literature would render such discussions disgusting and unintelligible."

"Your sneer, sir, is no answer; I will not part with you until I have full satisfaction concerning
the fraud you meditate--you shall go with me before a magistrate."

"Be it so," said Rashleigh, and made a step or two as if to accompany me; then pausing, proceeded--"Were
I inclined to do so as you would have me, you should soon feel which of us had most reason
to dread the presence of a magistrate. But I have no wish to accelerate your fate. Go, young
man! amuse yourself in your world of poetical imaginations, and leave the business of life
to those who understand and can conduct it."

His intention, I believe, was to provoke me, and he succeeded. "Mr. Osbaldistone," I said,
"this tone of calm insolence shall not avail you. You ought to be aware that the name we both
bear never submitted to insult, and shall not in my person be exposed to it."

"You remind me," said Rashleigh, with one of his blackest looks, "that it was dishonoured in
my person!--and you remind me also by whom! Do you think I have forgotten the evening at Osbaldistone
Hall when you cheaply and with impunity played the bully at my expense? For that insult--never
to be washed out but by blood!--for the various times you have crossed my path, and always
to my prejudice--for the persevering folly with which you seek to traverse schemes, the importance
of which you neither know nor are capable of estimating,--for all these, sir, you owe me a
long account, for which there shall come an early day of reckoning."

"Let it come when it will," I replied, "I shall be willing and ready to meet it. Yet you seem
to have forgotten the heaviest article--that I had the pleasure to aid Miss Vernon's good sense
and virtuous feeling in extricating her from your infamous toils."

I think his dark eyes flashed actual fire at this home-taunt, and yet his voice retained the
same calm expressive tone with which he had hitherto conducted the conversation.

"I had other views with respect to you, young man," was his answer: "less hazardous for you,
and more suitable to my present character and former education. But I see you will draw on
yourself the personal chastisement your boyish insolence so well merits. Follow me to a more
remote spot, where we are less likely to be interrupted."

I followed him accordingly, keeping a strict eye on his motions, for I believed him capable
of the very worst actions. We reached an open spot in a sort of wilderness, laid out in the
Dutch taste, with clipped hedges, and one or two statues. I was on my guard, and it was well
with me that I was so; for Rashleigh's sword was out and at my breast ere I could throw down
my cloak, or get my weapon unsheathed, so that I only saved my life by springing a pace or
two backwards. He had some advantage in the difference of our weapons; for his sword, as I
recollect, was longer than mine, and had one of those bayonet or three-cornered blades which
are now generally worn; whereas mine was what we then called a Saxon blade--narrow, flat, and
two-edged, and scarcely so manageable as that of my enemy. In other respects we were pretty
equally matched: for what advantage I might possess in superior address and agility, was fully
counterbalanced by Rashleigh's great strength and coolness. He fought, indeed, more like a
fiend than a man--with concentrated spite and desire of blood, only allayed by that cool consideration
which made his worst actions appear yet worse from the air of deliberate premeditation which
seemed to accompany them. His obvious malignity of purpose never for a moment threw him off
his guard, and he exhausted every feint and stratagem proper to the science of defence; while,
at the same time, he meditated the most desperate catastrophe to our rencounter.

On my part, the combat was at first sustained with more moderation. My passions, though hasty,
were not malevolent; and the walk of two or three minutes' space gave me time to reflect that
Rashleigh was my father's nephew, the son of an uncle, who after his fashion had been kind
to me, and that his falling by my hand could not but occasion much family distress. My first
resolution, therefore, was to attempt to disarm my antagonist--a manoeuvre in which, confiding
in my superiority of skill and practice, I anticipated little difficulty. I found, however,
I had met my match; and one or two foils which I received, and from the consequences of which
I narrowly escaped, obliged me to observe more caution in my mode of fighting. By degrees I
became exasperated at the rancour with which Rashleigh sought my life, and returned his passes
with an inveteracy resembling in some degree his own; so that the combat had all the appearance
of being destined to have a tragic issue. That issue had nearly taken place at my expense.
My foot slipped in a full lounge which I made at my adversary, and I could not so far recover
myself as completely to parry the thrust with which my pass was repaid. Yet it took but partial
effect, running through my waistcoat, grazing my ribs, and passing through my coat behind.
The hilt of Rashleigh's sword, so great was the vigour of his thrust, struck against my breast
with such force as to give me great pain, and confirm me in the momentary belief that I was
mortally wounded. Eager for revenge, I grappled with my enemy, seizing with my left hand the
hilt of his sword, and shortening my own with the purpose of running him through the body.
Our death-grapple was interrupted by a man who forcibly threw himself between us, and pushing
us separate from each other, exclaimed, in a loud and commanding voice, "What! the sons of
those fathers who sucked the same breast shedding each others bluid as it were strangers'!--By
the hand of my father, I will cleave to the brisket the first man that mints another stroke!"

I looked up in astonishment. The speaker was no other than Campbell. He had a basket-hilted
broadsword drawn in his hand, which he made to whistle around his head as he spoke, as if for
the purpose of enforcing his mediation. Rashleigh and I stared in silence at this unexpected
intruder, who proceeded to exhort us alternately:--"Do you, Maister Francis, opine that ye
will re-establish your father's credit by cutting your kinsman's thrapple, or getting your
ain sneckit instead thereof in the College-yards of Glasgow?--Or do you, Mr Rashleigh, think
men will trust their lives and fortunes wi' ane, that, when in point of trust and in point
of confidence wi' a great political interest, gangs about brawling like a drunken gillie?--Nay,
never look gash or grim at me, man--if ye're angry, ye ken how to turn the buckle o' your belt
behind you."

"You presume on my present situation," replied Rashleigh, "or you would have hardly dared to
interfere where my honour is concerned."

"Hout! tout! tout!--Presume? And what for should it be presuming?--Ye may be the richer man,
Mr. Osbaldistone, as is maist likely; and ye may be the mair learned man, whilk I dispute not:
but I reckon ye are neither a prettier man nor a better gentleman than mysell--and it will
be news to me when I hear ye are as gude. And dare too? Muckle daring there's about it--I trow,
here I stand, that hae slashed as het a haggis as ony o' the twa o' ye, and thought nae muckle
o' my morning's wark when it was dune. If my foot were on the heather as it's on the causeway,
or this pickle gravel, that's little better, I hae been waur mistrysted than if I were set
to gie ye baith your ser'ing o't."

Rashleigh had by this time recovered his temper completely. "My kinsman," he said, "will acknowledge
he forced this quarrel on me. It was none of my seeking. I am glad we are interrupted before
I chastised his forwardness more severely."

"Are ye hurt, lad?" inquired Campbell of me, with some appearance of interest.

"A very slight scratch," I answered, "which my kind cousin would not long have boasted of had
not you come between us."

"In troth, and that's true, Maister Rashleigh," said Campbell; "for the cauld iron and your
best bluid were like to hae become acquaint when I mastered Mr. Frank's right hand. But never
look like a sow playing upon a trump for the luve of that, man--come and walk wi' me. I hae
news to tell ye, and ye'll cool and come to yourself, like MacGibbon's crowdy, when he set
it out at the window-bole."

"Pardon me, sir," said I. "Your intentions have seemed friendly to me on more occasions than
one; but I must not, and will not, quit sight of this person until he yields up to me those
means of doing justice to my father's engagements, of which he has treacherously possessed
himself."

"Ye're daft, man," replied Campbell; "it will serve ye naething to follow us e'enow; ye hae
just enow o' ae man--wad ye bring twa on your head, and might bide quiet?"

"Twenty," I replied, "if it be necessary."

I laid my hand on Rashleigh's collar, who made no resistance, but said, with a sort of scornful
smile, "You hear him, MacGregor! he rushes on his fate--will it be my fault if he falls into
it?--The warrants are by this time ready, and all is prepared."

The Scotchman was obviously embarrassed. He looked around, and before, and behind him, and
then said--"The ne'er a bit will I yield my consent to his being ill-guided for standing up
for the father that got him--and I gie God's malison and mine to a' sort o' magistrates, justices,
bailies., sheriffs, sheriff-officers, constables, and sic-like black cattle, that hae been
the plagues o' puir auld Scotland this hunder year.--it was a merry warld when every man held
his ain gear wi' his ain grip, and when the country side wasna fashed wi' warrants and poindings
and apprizings, and a' that cheatry craft. And ance mair I say it, my conscience winna see
this puir thoughtless lad ill-guided, and especially wi' that sort o' trade. I wad rather ye
fell till't again, and fought it out like douce honest men."

"Your conscience, MacGregor!" said Rashleigh; "you forget how long you and I have known each
other."

"Yes, my conscience," reiterated Campbell, or MacGregor, or whatever was his name; "I hae such
a thing about me, Maister Osbaldistone; and therein it may weel chance that I hae the better
o' you. As to our knowledge of each other,--if ye ken what I am, ye ken what usage it was made
me what I am; and, whatever you may think, I would not change states with the proudest of the
oppressors that hae driven me to tak the heather-bush for a beild. What you are, Maister Rashleigh,
and what excuse ye hae for being what you are, is between your ain heart and the lang day.--And
now, Maister Francis, let go his collar; for he says truly, that ye are in mair danger from
a magistrate than he is, and were your cause as straight as an arrow, he wad find a way to
put you wrang--So let go his craig, as I was saying."

He seconded his words with an effort so sudden and unexpected, that he freed Rashleigh from
my hold, and securing me, notwithstanding my struggles, in his own Herculean gripe, he called
out--"Take the bent, Mr. Rashleigh--Make ae pair o' legs worth twa pair o' hands; ye hae dune
that before now."

"You may thank this gentleman, kinsman," said Rashleigh, "if I leave any part of my debt to
you unpaid; and if I quit you now, it is only in the hope we shall soon meet again without
the possibility of interruption."

He took up his sword, wiped it, sheathed it, and was lost among the bushes.

The Scotchman, partly by force, partly by remonstrance, prevented my following him; indeed
I began to be of opinion my doing so would be to little purpose.

"As I live by bread," said Campbell, when, after one or two struggles in which he used much
forbearance towards me, he perceived me inclined to stand quiet, "I never saw sae daft a callant!
I wad hae gien the best man in the country the breadth o' his back gin he had gien me sic a
kemping as ye hae dune. What wad ye do?--Wad ye follow the wolf to his den? I tell ye, man,
he has the auld trap set for ye--He has got the collector-creature Morris to bring up a' the
auld story again, and ye maun look for nae help frae me here, as ye got at Justice Inglewood's;--it
isna good for my health to come in the gate o' the whigamore bailie bodies. Now gang your ways
hame, like a gude bairn--jouk and let the jaw gae by--Keep out o' sight o' Rashleigh, and Morris,
and that MacVittie animal--Mind the Clachan of Aberfoil, as I said before, and by the word
of a gentleman, I wunna see ye wranged. But keep a calm sough till we meet again--I maun gae
and get Rashleigh out o' the town afore waur comes o't, for the neb o' him's never out o' mischief--Mind
the Clachan of Aberfoil."

He turned upon his heel, and left me to meditate on the singular events which had befallen
me. My first care was to adjust my dress and reassume my cloak, disposing it so as to conceal
the blood which flowed down my right side. I had scarcely accomplished this, when, the classes
of the college being dismissed, the gardens began to be filled with parties of the students.
I therefore left them as soon as possible; and in my way towards Mr. Jarvie's, whose dinner
hour was now approaching, I stopped at a small unpretending shop, the sign of which intimated
the indweller to be Christopher Neilson, surgeon and apothecary. I requested of a little boy
who was pounding some stuff in a mortar, that he would procure me an audience of this learned
pharmacopolist. He opened the door of the back shop, where I found a lively elderly man, who
shook his head incredulously at some idle account I gave him of having been wounded accidentally
by the button breaking off my antagonist's foil while I was engaged in a fencing match. When
he had applied some lint and somewhat else he thought proper to the trifling wound I had received,
he observed--"There never was button on the foil that made this hurt. Ah! young blood! young
blood!--But we surgeons are a secret generation--If it werena for hot blood and ill blood,
what wad become of the twa learned faculties?"

With which moral reflection he dismissed me; and I experienced very little pain or inconvenience
afterwards from the scratch I had received.

CHAPTER NINTH.

              An iron race the mountain-cliffs maintain,
                  Foes to the gentler genius of the plain.
                                *******
              Who while their rocky ramparts round they see,
                  The rough abode of want and liberty,
              As lawless force from confidence will grow,
                 Insult the plenty of the vales below.
                                                   Gray.

"What made ye sae late?" said Mr. Jarvie, as I entered the dining-parlour of that honest gentleman;
"it is chappit ane the best feek o' five minutes by-gane. Mattie has been twice at the door
wi' the dinner, and weel for you it was a tup's head, for that canna suffer by delay. A sheep's
head ower muckle boiled is rank poison, as my worthy father used to say--he likit the lug o'
ane weel, honest man."

I made a suitable apology for my breach of punctuality, and was soon seated at table, where
Mr. Jarvie presided with great glee and hospitality, compelling, however, Owen and myself to
do rather more justice to the Scottish dainties with which his board was charged, than was
quite agreeable to our southern palates. I escaped pretty well, from having those habits of
society which enable one to elude this species of well-meant persecution. But it was ridiculous
enough to see Owen, whose ideas of politeness were more rigorous and formal, and who was willing,
in all acts of lawful compliance, to evince his respect for the friend of the firm, eating
with rueful complaisance mouthful after mouthful of singed wool, and pronouncing it excellent,
in a tone in which disgust almost overpowered civility.

When the cloth was removed, Mr. Jarvie compounded with his own hands a very small bowl of brandy-punch,
the first which I had ever the fortune to see.

"The limes," he assured us, "were from his own little farm yonder-awa" (indicating the West
Indies with a knowing shrug of his shoulders), "and he had learned the art of composing the
liquor from auld Captain Coffinkey, who acquired it," he added in a whisper, "'as maist folk
thought, among the Buccaniers. But it's excellent liquor," said he, helping us round; "and
good ware has aften come frae a wicked market. And as for Captain Coffinkey, he was a decent
man when I kent him, only he used to swear awfully--But he's dead, and gaen to his account,
and I trust he's accepted--I trust he's accepted."

We found the liquor exceedingly palatable, and it led to a long conversation between Owen and
our host on the opening which the Union had afforded to trade between Glasgow and the British
Colonies in America and the West Indies, and on the facilities which Glasgow possessed of making
up sortable cargoes for that market. Mr. Jarvie answered some objection which Owen made on
the difficulty of sorting a cargo for America, without buying from England, with vehemence
and volubility.

"Na, na, sir, we stand on our ain bottom--we pickle in our ain pock-neuk--We hae our Stirling
serges, Musselburgh stuffs, Aberdeen hose, Edinburgh shalloons, and the like, for our woollen
or worsted goods--and we hae linens of a' kinds better and cheaper than you hae in Lunnon itsell--and
we can buy your north o' England wares, as Manchester wares, Sheffield wares, and Newcastle
earthenware, as cheap as you can at Liverpool--And we are making a fair spell at cottons and
muslins--Na, na! let every herring hing by its ain head, and every sheep by its ain shank,
and ye'll find, sir, us Glasgow folk no sae far ahint but what we may follow.--This is but
poor entertainment for you, Mr. Osbaldistone" (observing that I had been for some time silent);
"but ye ken cadgers maun aye be speaking about cart-saddles."

I apologised, alleging the painful circumstances of my own situation, and the singular adventures
of the morning, as the causes of my abstraction and absence of mind. In this manner I gained
what I sought--an opportunity of telling my story distinctly and without interruption. I only
omitted mentioning the wound I had received, which I did not think worthy of notice. Mr. Jarvie
listened with great attention and apparent interest, twinkling his little grey eyes, taking
snuff, and only interrupting me by brief interjections. When I came to the account of the rencounter,
at which Owen folded his hands and cast up his eyes to Heaven, the very image of woeful surprise,
Mr. Jarvie broke in upon the narration with "Wrang now--clean wrang--to draw a sword on your
kinsman is inhibited by the laws o' God and man; and to draw a sword on the streets of a royal
burgh is punishable by fine and imprisonment--and the College-yards are nae better privileged--they
should be a place of peace and quietness, I trow. The College didna get gude L600 a year out
o' bishops' rents (sorrow fa' the brood o' bishops and their rents too!), nor yet a lease o'
the archbishopric o' Glasgow the sell o't, that they suld let folk tuilzie in their yards,
or the wild callants bicker there wi' snaw-ba's as they whiles do, that when Mattie and I gae
through, we are fain to make a baik and a bow, or run the risk o' our harns being knocked out--it
suld be looked to.*--But come awa'wi' your tale--what fell neist?"

* The boys in Scotland used formerly to make a sort of Saturnalia in a snow-storm, by pelting
passengers with snowballs. But those exposed to that annoyance were excused from it on the
easy penalty of a baik (courtesy) from a female, or a bow from a man. It was only the refractory
who underwent the storm.

On my mentioning the appearance of Mr. Campbell, Jarvie arose in great surprise, and paced
the room, exclaiming, "Robin again!--Robert's mad--clean wud, and waur--Rob will be hanged,
and disgrace a' his kindred, and that will be seen and heard tell o'. My father the deacon
wrought him his first hose--Od, I am thinking Deacon Threeplie, the rape-spinner, will be twisting
his last cravat. Ay, ay, puir Robin is in a fair way o' being hanged--But come awa', come awa'--let's
hear the lave o't."

I told the whole story as pointedly as I could; but Mr. Jarvie still found something lacking
to make it clear, until I went back, though with considerable reluctance, on the whole story
of Morris, and of my meeting with Campbell at the house of Justice Inglewood. Mr. Jarvie inclined
a serious ear to all this, and remained silent for some time after I had finished my narrative.

"Upon all these matters I am now to ask your advice, Mr. Jarvie, which, I have no doubt, will
point out the best way to act for my father's advantage and my own honour."

"Ye're right, young man--ye're right," said the Bailie. "Aye take the counsel of those who
are aulder and wiser than yourself, and binna like the godless Rehoboam, who took the advice
o' a wheen beardless callants, neglecting the auld counsellors who had sate at the feet o'
his father Solomon, and, as it was weel put by Mr. Meiklejohn, in his lecture on the chapter,
were doubtless partakers of his sapience. But I maun hear naething about honour--we ken naething
here but about credit. Honour is a homicide and a bloodspiller, that gangs about making frays
in the street; but Credit is a decent honest man, that sits at hame and makes the pat play."

"Assuredly, Mr. Jarvie," said our friend Owen, "credit is the sum total; and if we can but
save that, at whatever discount"--

"Ye are right, Mr. Owen--ye are right; ye speak weel and wisely; and I trust bowls will row
right, though they are a wee ajee e'enow. But touching Robin, I am of opinion he will befriend
this young man if it is in his power. He has a gude heart, puir Robin; and though I lost a
matter o' twa hundred punds wi' his former engagements, and haena muckle expectation ever to
see back my thousand punds Scots that he promises me e'enow, yet I will never say but what
Robin means fair by men."

"I am then to consider him," I replied, "as an honest man?"

"Umph!" replied Jarvie, with a precautionary sort of cough--"Ay, he has a kind o' Hieland honesty--he's
honest after a sort, as they say. My father the deacon used aye to laugh when he tauld me how
that by-word came up. Ane Captain Costlett was cracking crouse about his loyalty to King Charles,
and Clerk Pettigrew (ye'll hae heard mony a tale about him) asked him after what manner he
served the king, when he was fighting again him at Wor'ster in Cromwell's army; and Captain
Costlett was a ready body, and said that he served him after a sort. My honest father used
to laugh weel at that sport--and sae the by-word came up."

"But do you think," I said, "that this man will be able to serve me after a sort, or should
I trust myself to this place of rendezvous which he has given me?"

"Frankly and fairly, it's worth trying. Ye see yourself there's some risk in your staying here.
This bit body Morris has gotten a custom-house place doun at Greenock--that's a port on the
Firth doun by here; and tho' a' the world kens him to be but a twa-leggit creature, wi' a goose's
head and a hen's heart, that goes about on the quay plaguing folk about permits, and cockits,
and dockits, and a' that vexatious trade, yet if he lodge an information--ou, nae doubt a man
in magisterial duty maun attend to it, and ye might come to be clapped up between four wa's,
whilk wad be ill-convenient to your father's affairs."

"True," I observed; "yet what service am I likely to render him by leaving Glasgow, which,
it is probable, will be the principal scene of Rashleigh's machinations, and committing myself
to the doubtful faith of a man of whom I know little but that he fears justice, and has doubtless
good reasons for doing so; and that, for some secret, and probably dangerous purpose, he is
in close league and alliance with the very person who is like to be the author of our ruin?"

"Ah, but ye judge Rob hardly," said the Bailie, "ye judge him hardly, puir chield; and the
truth is, that ye ken naething about our hill country, or Hielands, as we ca' them. They are
clean anither set frae the like o' huz;--there's nae bailie-courts amang them--nae magistrates
that dinna bear the sword in vain, like the worthy deacon that's awa', and, I may say't, like
mysell and other present magistrates in this city--But it's just the laird's command, and the
loon maun loup; and the never another law hae they but the length o' their dirks--the broadsword's
pursuer, or plaintiff, as you Englishers ca' it, and the target is defender; the stoutest head
bears langest out;--and there's a Hieland plea for ye."

Owen groaned deeply; and I allow that the description did not greatly increase my desire to
trust myself in a country so lawless as he described these Scottish mountains.

"Now, sir," said Jarvie, "we speak little o' thae things, because they are familiar to oursells;
and where's the use o' vilifying ane's country, and bringing a discredit on ane's kin, before
southrons and strangers? It's an ill bird that files its ain nest."

"Well, sir, but as it is no impertinent curiosity of mine, but real necessity, that obliges
me to make these inquiries, I hope you will not be offended at my pressing for a little farther
information. I have to deal, on my father's account, with several gentlemen of these wild countries,
and I must trust your good sense and experience for the requisite lights upon the subject."

This little morsel of flattery was not thrown out in vain. "Experience!" said the Bailie--"I
hae had experience, nae doubt, and I hae made some calculations--Ay, and to speak quietly amang
oursells, I hae made some perquisitions through Andrew Wylie, my auld clerk; he's wi' MacVittie
& Co. now--but he whiles drinks a gill on the Saturday afternoons wi' his auld master. And
since ye say ye are willing to be guided by the Glasgow weaver-body's advice, I am no the man
that will refuse it to the son of an auld correspondent, and my father the deacon was nane
sic afore me. I have whiles thought o' letting my lights burn before the Duke of Argyle, or
his brother Lord Ilay (for wherefore should they be hidden under a bushel?), but the like o'
thae grit men wadna mind the like o' me, a puir wabster body--they think mair o' wha says a
thing, than o' what the thing is that's said. The mair's the pity--mair's the pity. Not that
I wad speak ony ill of this MacCallum More--'Curse not the rich in your bedchamber,' saith
the son of Sirach, 'for a bird of the air shall carry the clatter, and pint-stoups hae lang lugs.'"

I interrupted these prolegomena, in which Mr. Jarvie was apt to be somewhat diffuse, by praying
him to rely upon Mr. Owen and myself as perfectly secret and safe confidants.

"It's no for that," he replied, "for I fear nae man--what for suld I?--I speak nae treason--Only
thae Hielandmen hae lang grips, and I whiles gang a wee bit up the glens to see some auld kinsfolks,
and I wadna willingly be in bad blude wi' ony o' their clans. Howsumever, to proceed--ye maun
understand I found my remarks on figures, whilk as Mr. Owen here weel kens, is the only true
demonstrable root of human knowledge."

Owen readily assented to a proposition so much in his own way, and our orator proceeded.

"These Hielands of ours, as we ca' them, gentlemen, are but a wild kind of warld by themsells,
full of heights and howes, woods, caverns, lochs, rivers, and mountains, that it wad tire the
very deevil's wings to flee to the tap o' them. And in this country, and in the isles, whilk
are little better, or, to speak the truth, rather waur than the mainland, there are about twa
hunder and thirty parochines, including the Orkneys, where, whether they speak Gaelic or no
I wotna, but they are an uncivilised people. Now, sirs, I sall haud ilk parochine at the moderate
estimate of eight hunder examinable persons, deducting children under nine years of age, and
then adding one-fifth to stand for bairns of nine years auld, and under, the whole population
will reach to the sum of--let us add one-fifth to 800 to be the multiplier, and 230 being the
multiplicand"--

"The product," said Mr. Owen, who entered delightedly into these statistics of Mr. Jarvie,
"will be 230,000."

"Right, sir--perfectly right; and the military array of this Hieland country, were a' the men-folk
between aughteen and fifty-six brought out that could bear arms, couldna come weel short of
fifty-seven thousand five hundred men. Now, sir, it's a sad and awfu' truth, that there is
neither wark, nor the very fashion nor appearance of wark, for the tae half of thae puir creatures;
that is to say, that the agriculture, the pasturage, the fisheries, and every species of honest
industry about the country, cannot employ the one moiety of the population, let them work as
lazily as they like, and they do work as if a pleugh or a spade burnt their fingers. Aweel,
sir, this moiety of unemployed bodies, amounting to"--

"To one hundred and fifteen thousand souls," said Owen, "being the half of the above product."

"Ye hae't, Mr. Owen--ye hae't--whereof there may be twenty-eight thousand seven hundred able-bodied
gillies fit to bear arms, and that do bear arms, and will touch or look at nae honest means
of livelihood even if they could get it--which, lack-a-day! they cannot."

"But is it possible," said I, "Mr. Jarvie, that this can be a just picture of so large a portion
of the island of Britain?"

"Sir, I'll make it as plain as Peter Pasley's pike-staff. I will allow that ilk parochine,
on an average, employs fifty pleughs, whilk is a great proportion in sic miserable soil as
thae creatures hae to labour, and that there may be pasture enough for pleugh-horses, and owsen,
and forty or fifty cows; now, to take care o' the pleughs and cattle, we'se allow seventy-five
families of six lives in ilk family, and we'se add fifty mair to make even numbers, and ye
hae five hundred souls, the tae half o' the population, employed and maintained in a sort o'
fashion, wi' some chance of sour-milk and crowdie; but I wad be glad to ken what the other
five hunder are to do?"

"In the name of God!" said I, "what do they do, Mr. Jarvie? It makes me shudder to think of
their situation."

"Sir," replied the Bailie, "ye wad maybe shudder mair if ye were living near hand them. For,
admitting that the tae half of them may make some little thing for themsells honestly in the
Lowlands by shearing in harst, droving, hay-making, and the like; ye hae still mony hundreds
and thousands o' lang-legged Hieland gillies that will neither work nor want, and maun gang
thigging and sorning* about on their acquaintance, or live by doing the laird's bidding, be't
right or be't wrang.

* Thigging and sorning was a kind of genteel begging, or rather something between begging and
robbing, by which the needy in Scotland used to extort cattle, or the means of subsistence,
from those who had any to give.

And mair especially, mony hundreds o' them come down to the borders of the low country, where
there's gear to grip, and live by stealing, reiving, lifting cows, and the like depredations--a
thing deplorable in ony Christian country!--the mair especially, that they take pride in it,
and reckon driving a spreagh (whilk is, in plain Scotch, stealing a herd of nowte) a gallant,
manly action, and mair befitting of pretty* men (as sic reivers will ca' themselves), than
to win a day's wage by ony honest thrift.

* The word pretty is or was used in Scotch, in the sense of the German prachtig, and meant
a gallant, alert fellow, prompt and ready at his weapons.

And the lairds are as bad as the loons; for if they dinna bid them gae reive and harry, the
deil a bit they forbid them; and they shelter them, or let them shelter themselves, in their
woods and mountains, and strongholds, whenever the thing's dune. And every ane o' them will
maintain as mony o' his ane name, or his clan, as we say, as he can rap and rend means for;
or, whilk's the same thing, as mony as can in ony fashion, fair or foul, mainteen themsells.
And there they are wi' gun and pistol, dirk and dourlach, ready to disturb the peace o' the
country whenever the laird likes; and that's the grievance of the Hielands, whilk are, and
hae been for this thousand years by-past, a bike o' the maist lawless unchristian limmers that
ever disturbed a douce, quiet, God-fearing neighbourhood, like this o' ours in the west here."

"And this kinsman of yours, and friend of mine, is he one of those great proprietors who maintain
the household troops you speak of?" I inquired.

"Na, na," said Bailie Jarvie; "he's nane o' your great grandees o' chiefs, as they ca' them,
neither. Though he is weel born, and lineally descended frae auld Glenstrae--I ken his lineage--indeed
he is a near kinsman, and, as I said, of gude gentle Hieland blude, though ye may think weel
that I care little about that nonsense--it's a' moonshine in water--waste threads and thrums,
as we say--But I could show ye letters frae his father, that was the third aff Glenstrae, to
my father Deacon Jarvie (peace be wi' his memory!) beginning, Dear Deacon, and ending, your
loving kinsman to command,--they are amaist a' about borrowed siller, sae the gude deacon,
that's dead and gane, keepit them as documents and evidents--He was a carefu' man."

"But if he is not," I resumed, "one of their chiefs or patriarchal leaders, whom I have heard
my father talk of, this kinsman of yours has, at least, much to say in the Highlands, I presume?"

"Ye may say that--nae name better ken'd between the Lennox and Breadalbane. Robin was ance
a weel-doing, painstaking drover, as ye wad see amang ten thousand--It was a pleasure to see
him in his belted plaid and brogues, wi' his target at his back, and claymore and dirk at his
belt, following a hundred Highland stots, and a dozen o' the gillies, as rough and ragged as
the beasts they drave. And he was baith civil and just in his dealings; and if he thought his
chapman had made a hard bargain, he wad gie him a luck-penny to the mends. I hae ken'd him
gie back five shillings out o' the pund sterling."

"Twenty-five per cent," said Owen--"a heavy discount."

"He wad gie it though, sir, as I tell ye; mair especially if he thought the buyer was a puir
man, and couldna stand by a loss. But the times cam hard, and Rob was venturesome. It wasna
my faut--it wasna my faut; he canna wyte me--I aye tauld him o't--And the creditors, mair especially
some grit neighbours o' his, gripped to his living and land; and they say his wife was turned
out o' the house to the hill-side, and sair misguided to the boot. Shamefu'! shamefu'!--I am
a peacefu' man and a magistrate, but if ony ane had guided sae muckle as my servant quean,
Mattie, as it's like they guided Rob's wife, I think it suld hae set the shabble* that my father
the deacon had at Bothwell brig a-walking again.

* Cutlass.

Weel, Rob cam hame, and fand desolation, God pity us! where he left plenty; he looked east,
west, south, north, and saw neither hauld nor hope--neither beild nor shelter; sae he e'en
pu'd the bonnet ower his brow, belted the broadsword to his side, took to the brae-side, and
became a broken man."*

* An outlaw.

The voice of the good citizen was broken by his contending feelings. He obviously, while he
professed to contemn the pedigree of his Highland kinsman, attached a secret feeling of consequence
to the connection, and he spoke of his friend in his prosperity with an overflow of affection,
which deepened his sympathy for his misfortunes, and his regret for their consequences.

"Thus tempted and urged by despair," said I, seeing Mr. Jarvie did not proceed in his narrative,
"I suppose your kinsman became one of those depredators you have described to us?"

"No sae bad as that," said the Glaswegian,--"no a'thegither and outright sae bad as that; but
he became a levier of black-mail, wider and farther than ever it was raised in our day, a through
the Lennox and Menteith, and up to the gates o' Stirling Castle."

"Black-mail?--I do not understand the phrase," I remarked.

"Ou, ye see, Rob soon gathered an unco band o' blue-bonnets at his back, for he comes o' a
rough name when he's kent by his ain, and a name that's held its ain for mony a lang year,
baith again king and parliament, and kirk too, for aught I ken--an auld and honourable name,
for as sair as it has been worried and hadden down and oppressed. My mother was a MacGregor--I
carena wha kens it--And Rob had soon a gallant band; and as it grieved him (he said) to see
sic hership and waste and depredation to the south o' the Hieland line, why, if ony heritor
or farmer wad pay him four punds Scots out of each hundred punds of valued rent, whilk was
doubtless a moderate consideration, Rob engaged to keep them scaithless;--let them send to
him if they lost sae muckle as a single cloot by thieving, and Rob engaged to get them again,
or pay the value--and he aye keepit his word--I canna deny but he keepit his word--a' men allow
Rob keeps his word."

"This is a very singular contract of assurance," said Mr. Owen.

"It's clean again our statute law, that must be owned," said Jarvie, "clean again law; the
levying and the paying black-mail are baith punishable: but if the law canna protect my barn
and byre, whatfor suld I no engage wi' a Hieland gentleman that can?--answer me that."

"But," said I, "Mr. Jarvie, is this contract of black-mail, as you call it, completely voluntary
on the part of the landlord or farmer who pays the insurance? or what usually happens, in case
any one refuses payment of this tribute?"

"Aha, lad!" said the Bailie, laughing, and putting his finger to his nose, "ye think ye hae
me there. Troth, I wad advise ony friends o' mine to gree wi' Rob; for, watch as they like,
and do what they like, they are sair apt to be harried* when the lang nights come on.

* Plundered.

Some o' the Grahame and Cohoon gentry stood out; but what then?--they lost their haill stock
the first winter; sae maist folks now think it best to come into Rob's terms. He's easy wi'
a' body that will be easy wi' him; but if ye thraw him, ye had better thraw the deevil."

"And by his exploits in these vocations," I continued, "I suppose he has rendered himself amenable
to the laws of the country?"

"Amenable?--ye may say that; his craig wad ken the weight o' his hurdies if they could get
haud o' Rob. But he has gude friends amang the grit folks; and I could tell ye o' ae grit family
that keeps him up as far as they decently can, to be a them in the side of another. And then
he's sic an auld-farran lang-headed chield as never took up the trade o' cateran in our time;
mony a daft reik he has played--mair than wad fill a book, and a queer ane it wad be--as gude
as Robin Hood, or William Wallace--a' fu' o' venturesome deeds and escapes, sic as folk tell
ower at a winter ingle in the daft days. It's a queer thing o' me, gentlemen, that am a man
o' peace mysell, and a peacefu man's son--for the deacon my father quarrelled wi' nane out
o the town-council--it's a queer thing, I say, but I think the Hieland blude o' me warms at
thae daft tales, and whiles I like better to hear them than a word o' profit, gude forgie me!
But they are vanities--sinfu' vanities--and, moreover, again the statute law--again the statute
and gospel law."

I now followed up my investigation, by inquiring what means of influence this Mr. Robert Campbell
could possibly possess over my affairs, or those of my father.

"Why, ye are to understand," said Mr. Jarvie in a very subdued tone--"I speak amang friends,
and under the rose--Ye are to understand, that the Hielands hae been keepit quiet since the
year aughty-nine--that was Killiecrankie year. But how hae they been keepit quiet, think ye?
By siller, Mr. Owen--by siller, Mr. Osbaldistone. King William caused Breadalbane distribute
twenty thousand oude punds sterling amang them, and it's said the auld Hieland Earl keepit
a lang lug o't in his ain sporran. And then Queen Anne, that's dead, gae the chiefs bits o'
pensions, sae they had wherewith to support their gillies and caterans that work nae wark,
as I said afore; and they lay by quiet eneugh, saying some spreagherie on the Lowlands, whilk
is their use and wont, and some cutting o' thrapples amang themsells, that nae civilised body
kens or cares onything anent.--Weel, but there's a new warld come up wi' this King George (I
say, God bless him, for ane)--there's neither like to be siller nor pensions gaun amang them;
they haena the means o' mainteening the clans that eat them up, as ye may guess frae what I
said before; their credit's gane in the Lowlands; and a man that can whistle ye up a thousand
or feifteen hundred linking lads to do his will, wad hardly get fifty punds on his band at
the Cross o' Glasgow--This canna stand lang--there will be an outbreak for the Stuarts--there
will be an outbreak--they will come down on the low country like a flood, as they did in the
waefu' wars o' Montrose, and that will be seen and heard tell o' ere a twalmonth gangs round."

"Yet still," I said, "I do not see how this concerns Mr. Campbell, much less my father's affairs."

"Rob can levy five hundred men, sir, and therefore war suld concern him as muckle as maist
folk," replied the Bailie; "for it is a faculty that is far less profitable in time o' peace.
Then, to tell ye the truth, I doubt he has been the prime agent between some o' our Hieland
chiefs and the gentlemen in the north o' England. We a' heard o' the public money that was
taen frae the chield Morris somewhere about the fit o' Cheviot by Rob and ane o' the Osbaldistone
lads; and, to tell ye the truth, word gaed that it was yoursell Mr. Francis,--and sorry was
I that your father's son suld hae taen to sic practices--Na, ye needna say a word about it--I
see weel I was mistaen; but I wad believe onything o' a stage-player, whilk I concluded ye
to be. But now, I doubtna, it has been Rashleigh himself or some other o' your cousins--they
are a' tarred wi' the same stick--rank Jacobites and papists, and wad think the government
siller and government papers lawfu' prize. And the creature Morris is sic a cowardly caitiff,
that to this hour he daurna say that it was Rob took the portmanteau aff him; and troth he's
right, for your custom-house and excise cattle are ill liket on a' sides, and Rob might get
a back-handed lick at him, before the Board, as they ca't, could help him."

"I have long suspected this, Mr. Jarvie," said I, "and perfectly agree with you. But as to
my father's affairs"--

"Suspected it?--it's certain--it's certain--I ken them that saw some of the papers that were
taen aff Morris--it's needless to say where. But to your father's affairs--Ye maun think that
in thae twenty years by-gane, some o' the Hieland lairds and chiefs hae come to some sma' sense
o' their ain interest--your father and others hae bought the woods of Glen-Disseries, Glen
Kissoch, Tober-na-Kippoch, and mony mair besides, and your father's house has granted large
bills in payment,--and as the credit o' Osbaldistone and Tresham was gude--for I'll say before
Mr. Owen's face, as I wad behind his back, that, bating misfortunes o' the Lord's sending,
nae men could be mair honourable in business--the Hieland gentlemen, holders o' thae bills,
hae found credit in Glasgow and Edinburgh--(I might amaist say in Glasgow wholly, for it's
little the pridefu' Edinburgh folk do in real business)--for all, or the greater part of the
contents o' thae bills. So that--Aha! d'ye see me now?"

I confessed I could not quite follow his drift.

"Why," said he, "if these bills are not paid, the Glasgow merchant comes on the Hieland lairds,
whae hae deil a boddle o' siller, and will like ill to spew up what is item a' spent--They
will turn desperate--five hundred will rise that might hae sitten at hame--the deil will gae
ower Jock Wabster--and the stopping of your father's house will hasten the outbreak that's
been sae lang biding us."

"You think, then," said I, surprised at this singular view of the case, "that Rashleigh Osbaldistone
has done this injury to my father, merely to accelerate a rising in the Highlands, by distressing
the gentlemen to whom these bills were originally granted?"

"Doubtless--doubtless--it has been one main reason, Mr. Osbaldistone. I doubtna but what the
ready money he carried off wi' him might be another. But that makes comparatively but a sma'
part o' your father's loss, though it might make the maist part o' Rashleigh's direct gain.
The assets he carried off are of nae mair use to him than if he were to light his pipe wi'
them. He tried if MacVittie & Co. wad gie him siller on them--that I ken by Andro Wylie--but
they were ower auld cats to draw that strae afore them--they keepit aff, and gae fair words.
Rashleigh Osbaldistone is better ken'd than trusted in Glasgow, for he was here about some
jacobitical papistical troking in seventeen hundred and seven, and left debt ahint him. Na,
na--he canna pit aff the paper here; folk will misdoubt him how he came by it. Na, na--he'll
hae the stuff safe at some o' their haulds in the Hielands, and I daur say my cousin Rob could
get at it gin he liked."

"But would he be disposed to serve us in this pinch, Mr. Jarvie?" said I. "You have described
him as an agent of the Jacobite party, and deeply connected in their intrigues: will he be
disposed for my sake, or, if you please, for the sake of justice, to make an act of restitution,
which, supposing it in his power, would, according to your view of the case, materially interfere
with their plans?"

"I canna preceesely speak to that: the grandees among them are doubtfu' o' Rob, and he's doubtfu'
o' them.--And he's been weel friended wi' the Argyle family, wha stand for the present model
of government. If he was freed o' his hornings and captions, he would rather be on Argyle's
side than he wad be on Breadalbane's, for there's auld ill-will between the Breadalbane family
and his kin and name. The truth is, that Rob is for his ain hand, as Henry Wynd feught*--he'll
take the side that suits him best; if the deil was laird, Rob wad be for being tenant; and
ye canna blame him, puir fallow, considering his circumstances.

* Two great clans fought out a quarrel with thirty men of a side, in presence ot the king,
on the North Inch of Perth, on or about the year 1392; a man was amissing on one side, whose
room was filled by a little bandy-legged citizen of Perth. This substitute, Henry Wynd--or,
as the Highlanders called him, Gow Chrom, that is, the bandy-legged smith--fought well, and
contributed greatly to the fate of the battle, without knowing which side he fought on;--so,
"To fight for your own hand, like Henry Wynd," passed into a proverb. [This incident forms
a conspicuous part of the subsequent novel, "The Fair Maid of Perth."]

But there's ae thing sair again ye--Rob has a grey mear in his stable at hame."

"A grey mare?" said I. "What is that to the purpose?"

"The wife, man--the wife,--an awfu' wife she is. She downa bide the sight o' a kindly Scot,
if he come frae the Lowlands, far less of an Inglisher, and she'll be keen for a' that can
set up King James, and ding down King George."

"It is very singular," I replied, "that the mercantile transactions of London citizens should
become involved with revolutions and rebellions."

"Not at a', man--not at a'," returned Mr. Jarvie; "that's a' your silly prejudications. I read
whiles in the lang dark nights, and I hae read in Baker's Chronicle* that the merchants o'London
could gar the Bank of Genoa break their promise to advance a mighty sum to the King o' Spain,
whereby the sailing of the Grand Spanish Armada was put aff for a haill year--What think you
of that, sir?"

* [The Chronicle of the Kings of England, by Sir Richard Baker, with continuations, passed
through several editions between 1641 and 1733. Whether any of them contain the passage alluded
to is doubtful.]

"That the merchants did their country golden service, which ought to be honourably remembered
in our histories."

"I think sae too; and they wad do weel, and deserve weal baith o' the state and o' humanity,
that wad save three or four honest Hieland gentlemen frae louping heads ower heels into destruction,
wi' a' their puir sackless* followers, just because they canna pay back the siller they had
reason to count upon as their ain--and save your father's credit--and my ain gude siller that
Osbaldistone and Tresham awes me into the bargain.

* Sackless, that is, innocent.

I say, if ane could manage a' this, I think it suld be done and said unto him, even if he were
a puir ca'-the-shuttle body, as unto one whom the king delighteth to honour."

"I cannot pretend to estimate the extent of public gratitude," I replied; "but our own thankfulness,
Mr. Jarvie, would be commensurate with the extent of the obligation."

"Which," added Mr. Owen, "we would endeavour to balance with a per contra, the instant our
Mr. Osbaldistone returns from Holland."

"I doubtna--I doubtna--he is a very worthy gentleman, and a sponsible, and wi' some o' my lights
might do muckle business in Scotland--Weel, sir, if these assets could be redeemed out o' the
hands o' the Philistines, they are gude paper--they are the right stuff when they are in the
right hands, and that's yours, Mr. Owen. And I'se find ye three men in Glasgow, for as little
as ye may think o' us, Mr. Owen--that's Sandie Steenson in the Trade's-Land, and John Pirie
in Candleriggs, and another that sall be nameless at this present, sall advance what soums
are sufficient to secure the credit of your house, and seek nae better security."

Owen's eyes sparkled at this prospect of extrication; but his countenance instantly fell on
recollecting how improbable it was that the recovery of the assets, as he technically called
them, should be successfully achieved.

"Dinna despair, sir--dinna despair," said Mr. Jarvie; "I hae taen sae muckle concern wi' your
affairs already, that it maun een be ower shoon ower boots wi' me now. I am just like my father
the deacon (praise be wi' him!) I canna meddle wi' a friend's business, but I aye end wi' making
it my ain--Sae, I'll e'en pit on my boots the morn, and be jogging ower Drymen Muir wi' Mr.
Frank here; and if I canna mak Rob hear reason, and his wife too, I dinna ken wha can--I hae
been a kind freend to them afore now, to say naething o' ower-looking him last night, when
naming his name wad hae cost him his life--I'll be hearing o' this in the council maybe frae
Bailie Grahame. and MacVittie, and some o' them. They hae coost up my kindred to Rob to me
already--set up their nashgabs! I tauld them I wad vindicate nae man's faults; but set apart
what he had done again the law o' the country, and the hership o' the Lennox, and the misfortune
o' some folk losing life by him, he was an honester man than stood on ony o' their shanks--And
whatfor suld I mind their clavers? If Rob is an outlaw, to himsell be it said--there is nae
laws now about reset of inter-communed persons, as there was in the ill times o' the last Stuarts--I
trow I hae a Scotch tongue in my head--if they speak, I'se answer."

It was with great pleasure that I saw the Bailie gradually surmount the barriers of caution,
under the united influence of public spirit and good-natured interest in our affairs, together
with his natural wish to avoid loss and acquire gain, and not a little harmless vanity. Through
the combined operation of these motives, he at length arrived at the doughty resolution of
taking the field in person, to aid in the recovery of my father's property. His whole information
led me to believe, that if the papers were in possession of this Highland adventurer, it might
be possible to induce him to surrender what he could not keep with any prospect of personal
advantage; and I was conscious that the presence of his kinsman was likely to have considerable
weight with him. I therefore cheerfully acquiesced in Mr. Jarvie's proposal that we should
set out early next morning.

That honest gentleman was indeed as vivacious and alert in preparing to carry his purpose into
execution, as he had been slow and cautious in forming it. He roared to Mattie to "air his
trot-cosey, to have his jack-boots greased and set before the kitchen-fire all night, and to
see that his beast be corned, and a' his riding gear in order." Having agreed to meet him at
five o'clock next morning, and having settled that Owen, whose presence could be of no use
to us upon this expedition, should await our return at Glasgow, we took a kind farewell of
this unexpectedly zealous friend. I installed Owen in an apartment in my lodgings, contiguous
to my own, and, giving orders to Andrew Fairservice to attend me next morning at the hour appointed,
I retired to rest with better hopes than it had lately been my fortune to entertain.

CHAPTER TENTH.

             Far as the eye could reach no tree was seen,
             Earth, clad in russet, scorned the lively green;
                No birds, except as birds of passage flew;
                No bee was heard to hum, no dove to coo;
                No streams, as amber smooth-as amber clear,
                Were seen to glide, or heard to warble here.
                                             Prophecy of Famine.

It was in the bracing atmosphere of a harvest morning, that I met by appointment Fairservice,
with the horses, at the door of Mr. Jarvie's house, which was but little space distant from
Mrs. Flyter's hotel. The first matter which caught my attention was, that whatever were the
deficiencies of the pony which Mr. Fairservice's legal adviser, Clerk Touthope, generously
bestowed upon him in exchange for Thorncliff's mare, he had contrived to part with it, and
procure in its stead an animal with so curious and complete a lameness, that it seemed only
to make use of three legs for the purpose of progression, while the fourth appeared as if meant
to be flourished in the air by way of accompaniment. "What do you mean by bringing such a creature
as that here, sir? and where is the pony you rode to Glasgow upon?" were my very natural and
impatient inquiries.

"I sell't it, sir. It was a slink beast, and wad hae eaten its head aff, standing at Luckie
Flyter's at livery. And I hae bought this on your honour's account. It's a grand bargain--cost
but a pund sterling the foot--that's four a'thegither. The stringhalt will gae aff when it's
gaen a mile; it's a weel-ken'd ganger; they call it Souple Tam."

"On my soul, sir," said I, "you will never rest till my supple-jack and your shoulders become
acquainted, If you do not go instantly and procure the other brute, you shall pay the penalty
of your ingenuity."

Andrew, notwithstanding my threats, continued to battle the point, as he said it would cost
him a guinea of rue-bargain to the man who had bought his pony, before he could get it back
again. Like a true Englishman, though sensible I was duped by the rascal, I was about to pay
his exaction rather than lose time, when forth sallied Mr. Jarvie, cloaked, mantled, hooded,
and booted, as if for a Siberian winter, while two apprentices, under the immediate direction
of Mattie, led forth the decent ambling steed which had the honour on such occasions to support
the person of the Glasgow magistrate. Ere he "clombe to the saddle," an expression more descriptive
of the Bailie's mode of mounting than that of the knights-errant to whom Spenser applies it,
he inquired the cause of the dispute betwixt my servant and me. Having learned the nature of
honest Andrew's manoeuvre he instantly cut short all debate, by pronouncing, that if Fairservice
did not forthwith return the three-legged palfrey, and produce the more useful quadruped which
he had discarded, he would send him to prison, and amerce him in half his wages. "Mr. Osbaldistone,"
said he, "contracted for the service of both your horse and you--twa brutes at ance--ye unconscionable
rascal!--but I'se look weel after you during this journey."

"It will be nonsense fining me," said Andrew, doughtily, "that hasna a grey groat to pay a
fine wi'--it's ill taking the breeks aff a Hielandman."

"If ye hae nae purse to fine, ye hae flesh to pine," replied the Bailie, "and I will look weel
to ye getting your deserts the tae way or the tither."

To the commands of Mr. Jarvie, therefore, Andrew was compelled to submit, only muttering between
his teeth, "Ower mony maisters,--ower mony maisters, as the paddock said to the harrow, when
every tooth gae her a tig."

Apparently he found no difficulty in getting rid of Supple Tam, and recovering possession of
his former Bucephalus, for he accomplished the exchange without being many minutes absent;
nor did I hear further of his having paid any smart-money for breach of bargain.

We now set forward, but had not reached the top of the street in which Mr. Jarvie dwelt, when
a loud hallooing and breathless call of "Stop, stop!" was heard behind us. We stopped accordingly,
and were overtaken by Mr. Jarvie's two lads, who bore two parting tokens of Mattie's care for
her master. The first was conveyed in the form of a voluminous silk handkerchief, like the
mainsail of one of his own West-Indiamen, which Mrs. Mattie particularly desired he would put
about his neck, and which, thus entreated, he added to his other integuments. The second youngster
brought only a verbal charge (I thought I saw the rogue disposed to laugh as he delivered it)
on the part of the housekeeper, that her master would take care of the waters. "Pooh! pooh!
silly hussy," answered Mr. Jarvie; but added, turning to me, "it shows a kind heart though--it
shows a kind heart in sae young a quean--Mattie's a carefu' lass." So speaking, he pricked
the sides of his palfrey, and we left the town without farther interruption.

While we paced easily forward, by a road which conducted us north-eastward from the town, I
had an opportunity to estimate and admire the good qualities of my new friend. Although, like
my father, he considered commercial transactions the most important objects of human life,
he was not wedded to them so as to undervalue more general knowledge. On the contrary, with
much oddity and vulgarity of manner,--with a vanity which he made much more ridiculous by disguising
it now and then under a thin veil of humility, and devoid as he was of all the advantages of
a learned education, Mr. Jarvie's conversation showed tokens of a shrewd, observing, liberal,
and, to the extent of its opportunities, a well-improved mind. He was a good local antiquary,
and entertained me, as we passed along, with an account of remarkable events which had formerly
taken place in the scenes through which we passed. And as he was well acquainted with the ancient
history of his district, he saw with the prospective eye of an enlightened patriot, the buds
of many of those future advantages which have only blossomed and ripened within these few years.
I remarked also, and with great pleasure, that although a keen Scotchman, and abundantly zealous
for the honour of his country, he was disposed to think liberally of the sister kingdom. When
Andrew Fairservice (whom, by the way, the Bailie could not abide) chose to impute the accident
of one of the horses casting his shoe to the deteriorating influence of the Union, he incurred
a severe rebuke from Mr. Jarvie.

"Whisht, sir!--whisht! it's ill-scraped tongues like yours, that make mischief atween neighbourhoods
and nations. There's naething sae gude on this side o' time but it might hae been better, and
that may be said o' the Union. Nane were keener against it than the Glasgow folk, wi' their
rabblings and their risings, and their mobs, as they ca' them now-a-days. But it's an ill wind
blaws naebody gude--Let ilka ane roose the ford as they find it--I say let Glasgow flourish!
whilk is judiciously and elegantly putten round the town's arms, by way of by-word.--Now, since
St. Mungo catched herrings in the Clyde, what was ever like to gar us flourish like the sugar
and tobacco trade? Will onybody tell me that, and grumble at the treaty that opened us a road
west-awa' yonder?"

Andrew Fairservice was far from acquiescing in these arguments of expedience, and even ventured
to enter a grumbling protest, "That it was an unco change to hae Scotland's laws made in England;
and that, for his share, he wadna for a' the herring-barrels in Glasgow, and a' the tobacco-casks
to boot, hae gien up the riding o' the Scots Parliament, or sent awa' our crown, and our sword,
and our sceptre, and Mons Meg,* to be keepit by thae English pock-puddings in the Tower o' Lunnon.

* Note G. Mons Meg.

What wad Sir William Wallace, or auld Davie Lindsay, hae said to the Union, or them that made it?"

The road which we travelled, while diverting the way with these discussions, had become wild
and open, as soon as we had left Glasgow a mile or two behind us, and was growing more dreary
as we advanced. Huge continuous heaths spread before, behind, and around us, in hopeless barrenness--now
level and interspersed with swamps, green with treacherous verdure, or sable with turf, or,
as they call them in Scotland, peat-bogs,--and now swelling into huge heavy ascents, which
wanted the dignity and form of hills, while they were still more toilsome to the passenger.
There were neither trees nor bushes to relieve the eye from the russet livery of absolute sterility.
The very heath was of that stinted imperfect kind which has little or no flower, and affords
the coarsest and meanest covering, which, as far as my experience enables me to judge, mother
Earth is ever arrayed in. Living thing we saw none, except occasionally a few straggling sheep
of a strange diversity of colours, as black, bluish, and orange. The sable hue predominated,
however, in their faces and legs. The very birds seemed to shun these wastes, and no wonder,
since they had an easy method of escaping from them;--at least I only heard the monotonous
and plaintive cries of the lapwing and curlew, which my companions denominated the peasweep
and whaup.

At dinner, however, which we took about noon, at a most miserable alehouse, we had the good
fortune to find that these tiresome screamers of the morass were not the only inhabitants of
the moors. The goodwife told us, that "the gudeman had been at the hill;" and well for us that
he had been so, for we enjoyed the produce of his chasse in the shape of some broiled moor-game,--a
dish which gallantly eked out the ewe-milk cheese, dried salmon, and oaten bread, being all
besides that the house afforded. Some very indifferent two-penny ale, and a glass of excellent
brandy, crowned our repast; and as our horses had, in the meantime, discussed their corn, we
resumed our journey with renovated vigour.

I had need of all the spirits a good dinner could give, to resist the dejection which crept
insensibly on my mind, when I combined the strange uncertainty of my errand with the disconsolate
aspect of the country through which it was leading me. Our road continued to be, if possible,
more waste and wild than that we had travelled in the forenoon. The few miserable hovels that
showed some marks of human habitation, were now of still rarer occurrence; and at length, as
we began to ascend an uninterrupted swell of moorland, they totally disappeared. The only exercise
which my imagination received was, when some particular turn of the road gave us a partial
view, to the left, of a large assemblage of dark-blue mountains stretching to the north and
north-west, which promised to include within their recesses a country as wild perhaps, but
certainly differing greatly in point of interest, from that which we now travelled. The peaks
of this screen of mountains were as wildly varied and distinguished, as the hills which we
had seen on the right were tame and lumpish; and while I gazed on this Alpine region, I felt
a longing to explore its recesses, though accompanied with toil and danger, similar to that
which a sailor feels when he wishes for the risks and animation of a battle or a gale, in exchange
for the insupportable monotony of a protracted calm. I made various inquiries of my friend
Mr. Jarvie respecting the names and positions of these remarkable mountains; but it was a subject
on which he had no information, or did not choose to be communicative. "They're the Hieland
hills--the Hieland hills--Ye'll see and hear eneugh about them before ye see Glasgow Cross
again--I downa look at them--I never see them but they gar me grew. It's no for fear--no for
fear, but just for grief, for the puir blinded half-starved creatures that inhabit them--but
say nae mair about it--it's ill speaking o' Hielandmen sae near the line. I hae ken'd mony
an honest man wadna hae ventured this length without he had made his last will and testament--Mattie
had ill-will to see me set awa' on this ride, and grat awee, the sillie tawpie; but it's nae
mair ferlie to see a woman greet than to see a goose gang barefit."

I next attempted to lead the discourse on the character and history of the person whom we were
going to visit; but on this topic Mr. Jarvie was totally inaccessible, owing perhaps in part
to the attendance of Mr. Andrew Fairservice, who chose to keep so close in our rear that his
ears could not fail to catch every word which was spoken, while his tongue assumed the freedom
of mingling in our conversation as often as he saw an opportunity. For this he occasionally
incurred Mr. Jarvie's reproof.

"Keep back, sir, as best sets ye," said the Bailie, as Andrew pressed forward to catch the
answer to some question I had asked about Campbell. --"ye wad fain ride the fore-horse, an
ye wist how.--That chield's aye for being out o' the cheese-fat he was moulded in.--Now, as
for your questions, Mr. Osbaldistone, now that chield's out of ear-shot, I'll just tell you
it's free to you to speer, and it's free to me to answer, or no--Gude I canna say muckle o'
Rob, puir chield; ill I winna say o' him, for, forby that he's my cousin, we're coming near
his ain country, and there may be ane o' his gillies ahint every whin-bush, for what I ken--And
if ye'll be guided by my advice, the less ye speak about him, or where we are gaun, or what
we are gaun to do, we'll be the mair likely to speed us in our errand. For it's like we may
fa' in wi' some o' his unfreends--there are e'en ower mony o' them about--and his bonnet sits
even on his brow yet for a' that; but I doubt they'll be upsides wi' Rob at the last--air day
or late day, the fox's hide finds aye the flaying knife."

"I will certainly," I replied, "be entirely guided by your experience."

"Right, Mr. Osbaldistone--right. But I maun speak to this gabbling skyte too, for bairns and
fules speak at the Cross what they hear at the ingle-side.--D'ye hear, you, Andrew--what's
your name?--Fairservice!"

Andrew, who at the last rebuff had fallen a good way behind, did not choose to acknowledge
the summons.

"Andrew, ye scoundrel!" repeated Mr. Jarvie; "here, sir here!"

"Here is for the dog." said Andrew, coming up sulkily.

"I'll gie you dog's wages, ye rascal, if ye dinna attend to what I say t'ye--We are gaun into
the Hielands a bit"--

"I judged as muckle," said Andrew.

"Haud your peace, ye knave, and hear what I have to say till ye--We are gaun a bit into the
Hielands"--

"Ye tauld me sae already," replied the incorrigible Andrew.

"I'll break your head," said the Bailie, rising in wrath, "if ye dinna haud your tongue."

"A hadden tongue," replied Andrew, "makes a slabbered mouth."

It was now necessary I should interfere, which I did by commanding Andrew, with an authoritative
tone, to be silent at his peril.

"I am silent," said Andrew. "I'se do a' your lawfu' bidding without a nay-say. My puir mother
used aye to tell me,

                      Be it better, be it worse,
                      Be ruled by him that has the purse.

Sae ye may e'en speak as lang as ye like, baith the tane and the tither o' you, for Andrew."

Mr. Jarvie took the advantage of his stopping after quoting the above proverb, to give him
the requisite instructions. "Now, sir, it's as muckle as your life's worth--that wad be dear
o' little siller, to be sure--but it is as muckle as a' our lives are worth, if ye dinna mind
what I sae to ye. In this public whar we are gaun to, and whar it is like we may hae to stay
a' night, men o' a' clans and kindred--Hieland and Lawland--tak up their quarters--And whiles
there are mair drawn dirks than open Bibles amang them, when the usquebaugh gets uppermost.
See ye neither meddle nor mak, nor gie nae offence wi' that clavering tongue o' yours, but
keep a calm sough, and let ilka cock fight his ain battle."

"Muckle needs to tell me that," said Andrew, contemptuously, "as if I had never seen a Hielandman
before, and ken'd nae how to manage them. Nae man alive can cuitle up Donald better than mysell--I
hae bought wi' them, sauld wi' them, eaten wi' them, drucken wi' them"--

"Did ye ever fight wi' them?" said Mr. Jarvie.

"Na, na," answered Andrew, "I took care o' that: it wad ill hae set me, that am an artist and
half a scholar to my trade, to be fighting amang a wheen kilted loons that dinna ken the name
o' a single herb or flower in braid Scots, let abee in the Latin tongue."

"Then," said Mr. Jarvie, "as ye wad keep either your tongue in your mouth, or your lugs in
your head (and ye might miss them, for as saucy members as they are), I charge ye to say nae
word, gude or bad, that ye can weel get by, to onybody that may be in the Clachan. And ye'll
specially understand that ye're no to be bleezing and blasting about your master's name and
mine, or saying that this is Mr. Bailie Nicol Jarvie o' the Saut Market, son o' the worthy
Deacon Nicol Jarvie, that a' body has heard about; and this is Mr. Frank Osbaldistone, son
of the managing partner of the great house of Osbaldistone and Tresham, in the City."

"Eneueh said," answered Andrew--"eneueh said. What need ye think I wad be speaking about your
names for?--I hae mony things o' mair importance to speak about, I trow."

"It's thae very things of importance that I am feared for, ye blethering goose; ye maunna speak
ony thing, gude or bad, that ye can by any possibility help."

"If ye dinna think me fit," replied Andrew, in a huff, "to speak like ither folk, gie me my
wages and my board-wages, and I'se gae back to Glasgow--There's sma' sorrow at our parting,
as the auld mear said to the broken cart."

Finding Andrew's perverseness again rising to a point which threatened to occasion me inconvenience,
I was under the necessity of explaining to him, that he might return if he thought proper,
but that in that case I would not pay him a single farthing for his past services. The argument
ad crumenam, as it has been called by jocular logicians, has weight with the greater part of
mankind, and Andrew was in that particular far from affecting any trick of singularity. He
"drew in his horns," to use the Bailie's phrase, on the instant, professed no intention whatever
to disoblige, and a resolution to be guided by my commands, whatever they might be.

Concord being thus happily restored to our small party, we continued to pursue our journey.
The road, which had ascended for six or seven English miles, began now to descend for about
the same space, through a country which neither in fertility nor interest could boast any advantage
over that which we had passed already, and which afforded no variety, unless when some tremendous
peak of a Highland mountain appeared at a distance. We continued, however, to ride on without
pause and even when night fell and overshadowed the desolate wilds which we traversed, we were,
as I understood from Mr. Jarvie, still three miles and a bittock distant from the place where
we were to spend the night.

CHAPTER ELEVENTH.

                          Baron of Bucklivie,
                       May the foul fiend drive ye,
                          And a' to pieces rive ye,
                          For building sic a town,
                       Where there's neither horse meat,
                          Nor man's meat,
                       Nor a chair to sit down.
                                Scottish Popular Rhymes on a bad Inn.

The night was pleasant, and the moon afforded us good light for our journey. Under her rays,
the ground over which we passed assumed a more interesting appearance than during the broad
daylight, which discovered the extent of its wasteness. The mingled light and shadows gave
it an interest which naturally did not belong to it; and, like the effect of a veil flung over
a plain woman, irritated our curiosity on a subject which had in itself nothing gratifying.

The descent, however, still continued, turned, winded, left the more open heaths, and got into
steeper ravines, which promised soon to lead us to the banks of some brook or river, and ultimately
made good their presage. We found ourselves at length on the bank of a stream, which rather
resembled one of my native English rivers than those I had hitherto seen in Scotland. It was
narrow, deep, still, and silent; although the imperfect light, as it gleamed on its placid
waters, showed also that we were now among the lofty mountains which formed its cradle. "That's
the Forth," said the Bailie, with an air of reverence, which I have observed the Scotch usually
pay to their distinguished rivers. The Clyde, the Tweed, the Forth, the Spey, are usually named
by those who dwell on their banks with a sort of respect and pride, and I have known duels
occasioned by any word of disparagement. I cannot say I have the least quarrel with this sort
of harmless enthusiasm. I received my friend's communication with the importance which he seemed
to think appertained to it. In fact, I was not a little pleased, after so long and dull a journey,
to approach a region which promised to engage the imagination. My faithful squire, Andrew,
did not seem to be quite of the same opinion, for he received the solemn information, "That
is the Forth," with a "Umph!--an he had said that's the public-house, it wad hae been mair
to the purpose."

The Forth, however, as far as the imperfect light permitted me to judge, seemed to merit the
admiration of those who claimed an interest in its stream. A beautiful eminence of the most
regular round shape, and clothed with copsewood of hazels, mountain-ash, and dwarf-oak, intermixed
with a few magnificent old trees, which, rising above the underwood, exposed their forked and
bared branches to the silver moonshine, seemed to protect the sources from which the river
sprung. If I could trust the tale of my companion, which, while professing to disbelieve every
word of it, he told under his breath, and with an air of something like intimidation, this
hill, so regularly formed, so richly verdant, and garlanded with such a beautiful variety of
ancient trees and thriving copsewood, was held by the neighbourhood to contain, within its
unseen caverns, the palaces of the fairies--a race of airy beings, who formed an intermediate
class between men and demons, and who, if not positively malignant to humanity, were yet to
be avoided and feared, on account of their capricious, vindictive, and irritable disposition.*

* Note H. Fairy Superstition.

"They ca' them," said Mr. Jarvie, in a whisper, "Daoine Schie,--whilk signifies, as I understand,
men of peace; meaning thereby to make their gudewill. And we may e'en as weel ca' them that
too, Mr. Osbaldistone, for there's nae gude in speaking ill o' the laird within his ain bounds."
But he added presently after, on seeing one or two lights which twinkled before us, "It's deceits
o' Satan, after a', and I fearna to say it--for we are near the manse now, and yonder are the
lights in the Clachan of Aberfoil."

I own I was well pleased at the circumstance to which Mr. Jarvie alluded; not so much that
it set his tongue at liberty, in his opinion, with all safety to declare his real sentiments
with respect to the Daoine Schie, or fairies, as that it promised some hours' repose to ourselves
and our horses, of which, after a ride of fifty miles and upwards, both stood in some need.

We crossed the infant Forth by an old-fashioned stone bridge, very high and very narrow. My
conductor, however, informed me, that to get through this deep and important stream, and to
clear all its tributary dependencies, the general pass from the Highlands to the southward
lay by what was called the Fords of Frew, at all times deep and difficult of passage, and often
altogether unfordable. Beneath these fords, there was no pass of general resort until so far
east as the bridge of Stirling; so that the river of Forth forms a defensible line between
the Highlands and Lowlands of Scotland, from its source nearly to the Firth, or inlet of the
ocean, in which it terminates. The subsequent events which we witnessed led me to recall with
attention what the shrewdness of Bailie Jarvie suggested in his proverbial expression, that
"Forth bridles the wild Highlandman."

About half a mile's riding, after we crossed the bridge, placed us at the door of the public-house
where we were to pass the evening. It was a hovel rather worse than better than that in which
we had dined; but its little windows were lighted up, voices were heard from within, and all
intimated a prospect of food and shelter, to which we were by no means indifferent. Andrew
was the first to observe that there was a peeled willow-wand placed across the half-open door
of the little inn. He hung back and advised us not to enter. "For," said Andrew, "some of their
chiefs and grit men are birling at the usquebaugh in by there, and dinna want to be disturbed;
and the least we'll get, if we gang ramstam in on them, will be a broken head, to learn us
better havings, if we dinna come by the length of a cauld dirk in our wame, whilk is just as
likely."

I looked at the Bailie, who acknowledged, in a whisper, "that the gowk had some reason for
singing, ance in the year."

Meantime a staring half-clad wench or two came out of the inn and the neighbouring cottages,
on hearing the sound of our horses' feet. No one bade us welcome, nor did any one offer to
take our horses, from which we had alighted; and to our various inquiries, the hopeless response
of "Ha niel Sassenach," was the only answer we could extract. The Bailie, however, found (in
his experience) a way to make them speak English. "If I gie ye a bawbee," said he to an urchin
of about ten years old, with a fragment of a tattered plaid about him, "will you understand
Sassenach?"

"Ay, ay, that will I," replied the brat, in very decent English. "Then gang and tell your mammy,
my man, there's twa Sassenach gentlemen come to speak wi' her."

The landlady presently appeared, with a lighted piece of split fir blazing in her hand. The
turpentine in this species of torch (which is generally dug from out the turf-bogs) makes it
blaze and sparkle readily, so that it is often used in the Highlands in lieu of candles. On
this occasion such a torch illuminated the wild and anxious features of a female, pale, thin,
and rather above the usual size, whose soiled and ragged dress, though aided by a plaid or
tartan screen, barely served the purposes of decency, and certainly not those of comfort. Her
black hair, which escaped in uncombed elf-locks from under her coif, as well as the strange
and embarrassed look with which she regarded us, gave me the idea of a witch disturbed in the
midst of her unlawful rites. She plainly refused to admit us into the house. We remonstrated
anxiously, and pleaded the length of our journey, the state of our horses, and the certainty
that there was not another place where we could be received nearer than Callander, which the
Bailie stated to be seven Scots miles distant. How many these may exactly amount to in English
measurement, I have never been able to ascertain, but I think the double ratio may be pretty
safely taken as a medium computation. The obdurate hostess treated our expostulation with contempt.
"Better gang farther than fare waur," she said, speaking the Scottish Lowland dialect, and
being indeed a native of the Lennox district--"Her house was taen up wi' them wadna like to
be intruded on wi' strangers. She didna ken wha mair might be there--red-coats, it might be,
frae the garrison." (These last words she spoke under her breath, and with very strong emphasis.)
"The night," she said, "was fair abune head--a night amang the heather wad caller our bloods--we
might sleep in our claes, as mony a gude blade does in the scabbard--there wasna muckle flowmoss
in the shaw, if we took up our quarters right, and we might pit up our horses to the hill,
naebody wad say naething against it."

"But, my good woman," said I, while the Bailie groaned and remained undecided, "it is six hours
since we dined, and we have not taken a morsel since. I am positively dying with hunger, and
I have no taste for taking up my abode supperless among these mountains of yours. I positively
must enter; and make the best apology you can to your guests for adding a stranger or two to
their number. Andrew, you will see the horses put up."

The Hecate looked at me with surprise, and then ejaculated--"A wilfu' man will hae his way--them
that will to Cupar maun to Cupar!--To see thae English belly-gods! he has had ae fu' meal the
day already, and he'll venture life and liberty, rather than he'll want a het supper! Set roasted
beef and pudding on the opposite side o' the pit o' Tophet, and an Englishman will mak a spang
at it--But I wash my hands o't--Follow me sir" (to Andrew), "and I'se show ye where to pit
the beasts."

I own I was somewhat dismayed at my landlady's expressions, which seemed to be ominous of some
approaching danger. I did not, however, choose to shrink back after having declared my resolution,
and accordingly I boldly entered the house; and after narrowly escaping breaking my shins over
a turf back and a salting tub, which stood on either side of the narrow exterior passage, I
opened a crazy half-decayed door, constructed not of plank, but of wicker, and, followed by
the Bailie, entered into the principal apartment of this Scottish caravansary.

The interior presented a view which seemed singular enough to southern eyes. The fire, fed
with blazing turf and branches of dried wood, blazed merrily in the centre; but the smoke,
having no means to escape but through a hole in the roof, eddied round the rafters of the cottage,
and hung in sable folds at the height of about five feet from the floor. The space beneath
was kept pretty clear by innumerable currents of air which rushed towards the fire from the
broken panel of basket-work which served as a door--from two square holes, designed as ostensible
windows, through one of which was thrust a plaid, and through the other a tattered great-coat--and
moreover, through various less distinguishable apertures in the walls of the tenement, which,
being built of round stones and turf, cemented by mud, let in the atmosphere at innumerable
crevices.

At an old oaken table, adjoining to the fire, sat three men, guests apparently, whom it was
impossible to regard with indifference. Two were in the Highland dress; the one, a little dark-complexioned
man, with a lively, quick, and irritable expression of features, wore the trews, or close pantaloons
wove out of a sort of chequered stocking stuff. The Bailie whispered me, that "he behoved to
be a man of some consequence, for that naebody but their Duinhe'wassels wore the trews--they
were ill to weave exactly to their Highland pleasure."

The other mountaineer was a very tall, strong man, with a quantity of reddish hair, freckled
face, high cheek-bones, and long chin--a sort of caricature of the national features of Scotland.
The tartan which he wore differed from that of his companion, as it had much more scarlet in
it, whereas the shades of black and dark-green predominated in the chequers of the other. The
third, who sate at the same table, was in the Lowland dress,--a bold, stout-looking man, with
a cast of military daring in his eye and manner, his riding-dress showily and profusely laced,
and his cocked hat of formidable dimensions. His hanger and a pair of pistols lay on the table
before him. Each of the Highlanders had their naked dirks stuck upright in the board beside
him,--an emblem, I was afterwards informed, but surely a strange one, that their computation
was not to be interrupted by any brawl. A mighty pewter measure, containing about an English
quart of usquebaugh, a liquor nearly as strong as brandy, which the Highlanders distil from
malt, and drink undiluted in excessive quantities, was placed before these worthies. A broken
glass, with a wooden foot, served as a drinking cup to the whole party, and circulated with
a rapidity, which, considering the potency of the liquor, seemed absolutely marvellous. These
men spoke loudly and eagerly together, sometimes in Gaelic, at other times in English. Another
Highlander, wrapt in his plaid, reclined on the floor, his head resting on a stone, from which
it was only separated by a wisp of straw, and slept or seemed to sleep, without attending to
what was going on around him, He also was probably a stranger, for he lay in full dress, and
accoutred with the sword and target, the usual arms of his countrymen when on a journey. Cribs
there were of different dimensions beside the walls, formed, some of fractured boards, some
of shattered wicker-work or plaited boughs, in which slumbered the family of the house, men,
women, and children, their places of repose only concealed by the dusky wreaths of vapour which
arose above, below, and around them.

Our entrance was made so quietly, and the carousers I have described were so eagerly engaged
in their discussions, that we escaped their notice for a minute or two. But I observed the
Highlander who lay beside the fire raise himself on his elbow as we entered, and, drawing his
plaid over the lower part of his face, fix his look on us for a few seconds, after which he
resumed his recumbent posture, and seemed again to betake himself to the repose which our entrance
had interrupted,

We advanced to the fire, which was an agreeable spectacle after our late ride, during the chillness
of an autumn evening among the mountains, and first attracted the attention of the guests who
had preceded us, by calling for the landlady. She approached, looking doubtfully and timidly,
now at us, now at the other party, and returned a hesitating and doubtful answer to our request
to have something to eat.

"She didna ken," she said, "she wasna sure there was onything in the house," and then modified
her refusal with the qualification--"that is, onything fit for the like of us."

I assured her we were indifferent to the quality of our supper; and looking round for the means
of accommodation, which were not easily to be found, I arranged an old hen-coop as a seat for
Mr. Jarvie, and turned down a broken tub to serve for my own. Andrew Fairservice entered presently
afterwards, and took a place in silence behind our backs. The natives, as I may call them,
continued staring at us with an air as if confounded by our assurance, and we, at least I myself,
disguised as well as we could, under an appearance of indifference, any secret anxiety we might
feel concerning the mode in which we were to be received by those whose privacy we had disturbed.

At length, the lesser Highlander, addressing himself to me said, in very good English, and
in a tone of great haughtiness, "Ye make yourself at home, sir, I see."

"I usually do so," I replied, "when I come into a house of public entertainment."

"And did she na see," said the taller man, "by the white wand at the door, that gentlemans
had taken up the public-house on their ain business?"

"I do not pretend to understand the customs of this country but I am yet to learn," I replied,
"how three persons should be entitled to exclude all other travellers from the only place of
shelter and refreshment for miles round."

"There's nae reason for't, gentlemen," said the Bailie; "we mean nae offence--but there's neither
law nor reason for't; but as far as a stoup o' gude brandy wad make up the quarrel, we, being
peaceable folk, wad be willing."

"Damn your brandy, sir!" said the Lowlander, adjusting his cocked hat fiercely upon his head;
"we desire neither your brandy nor your company," and up he rose from his seat. His companions
also arose, muttering to each other, drawing up their plaids, and snorting and snuffing the
air after the mariner of their countrymen when working themselves into a passion.

"I tauld ye what wad come, gentlemen," said the landlady, "an ye wad hae been tauld:--get awa'
wi' ye out o' my house, and make nae disturbance here--there's nae gentleman be disturbed at
Jeanie MacAlpine's an she can hinder. A wheen idle English loons, gaun about the country under
cloud o' night, and disturbing honest peaceable gentlemen that are drinking their drap drink
at the fireside!"

At another time I should have thought of the old Latin adage,

"Dat veniam corvis, vexat censure columbas"--

But I had not any time for classical quotation, for there was obviously a fray about to ensue,
at which, feeling myself indiginant at the inhospitable insolence with which I was treated,
I was totally indifferent, unless on the Bailie's account, whose person and qualities were
ill qualified for such an adventure. I started up, however, on seeing the others rise, and
dropped my. cloak from my shoulders, that I might be ready to stand on the defensive.

"We are three to three," said the lesser Highlander, glancing his eyes at our party: "if ye
be pretty men, draw!" and unsheathing his broadsword, he advanced on me. I put myself in a
posture of defence, and aware of the superiority of my weapon, a rapier or small-sword, was
little afraid of the issue of the contest. The Bailie behaved with unexpected mettle. As he
saw the gigantic Highlander confront him with his weapon drawn, he tugged for a second or two
at the hilt of his shabble, as he called it; but finding it loth to quit the sheath, to which
it had long been secured by rust and disuse, he seized, as a substitute, on the red-hot coulter
of a plough which had been employed in arranging the fire by way of a poker, and brandished
it with such effect, that at the first pass he set the Highlander's plaid on fire, and compelled
him to keep a respectful distance till he could get it extinguished. Andrew, on the contrary,
who ought to have faced the Lowland champion, had, I grieve to say it, vanished at the very
commencement of the fray. But his antagonist, crying "Fair play, fair play!" seemed courteously
disposed to take no share in the scuffle. Thus we commenced our rencontre on fair terms as
to numbers. My own aim was, to possess myself, if possible, of my antagonist's weapon; but
I was deterred from closing, for fear of the dirk which he held in his left hand, and used
in parrying the thrusts of my rapier. Meantime the Bailie, notwithstanding the success of his
first onset, was sorely bested. The weight of his weapon, the corpulence of his person, the
very effervescence of his own passions, were rapidly exhausting both his strength and his breath,
and he was almost at the mercy of his antagonist, when up started the sleeping Highlander from
the floor on which he reclined, with his naked sword and target in his hand, and threw himself
between the discomfited magistrate and his assailant, exclaiming, "Her nainsell has eaten the
town pread at the Cross o' Glasgow, and py her troth she'll fight for Bailie Sharvie at the
Clachan of Aberfoil--tat will she e'en!" And seconding his words with deeds, this unexpected
auxiliary made his sword whistle about the ears of his tall countryman, who, nothing abashed,
returned his blows with interest. But being both accoutred with round targets made of wood,
studded with brass, and covered with leather, with which they readily parried each other's
strokes, their combat was attended with much more noise and clatter than serious risk of damage.
It appeared, indeed, that there was more of bravado than of serious attempt to do us any injury;
for the Lowland gentleman, who, as I mentioned, had stood aside for want of an antagonist when
the brawl commenced, was now pleased to act the part of moderator and peacemaker.

"Hand your hands! haud your hands!--eneugh done!--eneugh done! the quarrel's no mortal. The
strange gentlemen have shown themselves men of honour, and gien reasonable satisfaction. I'll
stand on mine honour as kittle as ony man, but I hate unnecessary bloodshed."

It was not, of course, my wish to protract the fray--my adversary seemed equally disposed to
sheathe his sword--the Bailie, gasping for breath, might be considered as hors de combat, and
our two sword-and-buckler men gave up their contest with as much indifference as they had entered
into it.

"And now," said the worthy gentleman who acted as umpire, "let us drink and gree like honest
fellows--The house will haud us a'. I propose that this good little gentleman, that seems sair
forfoughen, as I may say, in this tuilzie, shall send for a tass o' brandy and I'll pay for
another, by way of archilowe,* and then we'll birl our bawbees a' round about, like brethren."

"And fa's to pay my new ponnie plaid," said the larger Highlander, "wi' a hole burnt in't ane
might put a kail-pat through? Saw ever onybody a decent gentleman fight wi' a firebrand before?"

"Let that be nae hinderance," said the Bailie, who had now recovered his breath, and was at
once disposed to enjoy the triumph of having behaved with spirit, and avoid the necessity of
again resorting to such hard and doubtful arbitrament--"Gin I hae broken the head," he said,
"I sall find the plaister. A new plaid sall ye hae, and o' the best--your ain clan-colours,
man,--an ye will tell me where it can be sent t'ye frae Glasco."

"I needna name my clan--I am of a king's clan, as is weel ken'd," said the Highlander; "but
ye may tak a bit o' the plaid--figh! she smells like a singit sheep's head!--and that'll learn
ye the sett--and a gentleman, that's a cousin o' my ain, that carries eggs doun frae Glencroe,
will ca' for't about Martimas, an ye will tell her where ye bide. But, honest gentleman, neist
time ye fight, an ye hae ony respect for your athversary, let it be wi' your sword, man, since
ye wear ane, and no wi' thae het culters and fireprands, like a wild Indian."

"Conscience!" replied the Bailie, "every man maun do as he dow. My sword hasna seen the light
since Bothwell Brigg, when my father that's dead and gane, ware it; and I kenna weel if it
was forthcoming then either, for the battle was o' the briefest--At ony rate, it's glued to
the scabbard now beyond my power to part them; and, finding that, I e'en grippit at the first
thing I could make a fend wi'. I trow my fighting days is done, though I like ill to take the
scorn, for a' that.--But where's the honest lad that tuik my quarrel on himself sae frankly?--I'se
bestow a gill o' aquavitae on him, an I suld never ca' for anither."

* Archilowe, of unknown derivation, signifies a peace-offering.

The champion for whom he looked around was, however, no longer to be seen. He had escaped unobserved
by the Bailie, immediately when the brawl was ended, yet not before I had recognised, in his
wild features and shaggy red hair, our acquaintance Dougal, the fugitive turnkey of the Glasgow
jail. I communicated this observation in a whisper to the Bailie, who answered in the same
tone, "Weel, weel,--I see that him that ye ken o' said very right; there is some glimmering
o' common sense about that creature Dougal; I maun see and think o' something will do him some
gude."

Thus saying, he sat down, and fetching one or two deep aspirations, by way of recovering his
breath, called to the landlady--"I think, Luckie, now that I find that there's nae hole in
my wame, whilk I had muckle reason to doubt frae the doings o' your house, I wad be the better
o' something to pit intill't."

The dame, who was all officiousness so soon as the storm had blown over, immediately undertook
to broil something comfortable for our supper. Indeed, nothing surprised me more, in the course
of the whole matter, than the extreme calmness with which she and her household seemed to regard
the martial tumult that had taken place. The good woman was only heard to call to some of her
assistants--"Steek the door! steek the door! kill or be killed, let naebody pass out till they
hae paid the lawin." And as for the slumberers in those lairs by the wall, which served the
family for beds, they only raised their shirtless bodies to look at the fray, ejaculated, "Oigh!
oigh!" in the tone suitable to their respective sex and ages, and were, I believe, fast asleep
again, ere our swords were well returned to their scabbards.

Our landlady, however, now made a great bustle to get some victuals ready, and, to my surprise,
very soon began to prepare for us in the frying-pan a savoury mess of venison collops, which
she dressed in a manner that might well satisfy hungry men, if not epicures. In the meantime
the brandy was placed on the table, to which the Highlanders, however partial to their native
strong waters, showed no objection, but much the contrary; and the Lowland gentleman, after
the first cup had passed round, became desirous to know our profession, and the object of our
journey.

"We are bits o' Glasgow bodies, if it please your honour," said the Bailie, with an affectation
of great humility, "travelling to Stirling to get in some siller that is awing us."

I was so silly as to feel a little disconcerted at the unassuming account which he chose to
give of us; but I recollected my promise to be silent, and allow the Bailie to manage the matter
his own way. And really, when I recollected, Will, that I had not only brought the honest man
a long journey from home, which even in itself had been some inconvenience (if I were to judge
from the obvious pain and reluctance with which he took his seat, or arose from it), but had
also put him within a hair's-breadth of the loss of his life, I could hardly refuse him such
a compliment. The spokesman of the other party, snuffing up his breath through his nose, repeated
the words with a sort of sneer;--"You Glasgow tradesfolks hae naething to do but to gang frae
the tae end o' the west o' Scotland to the ither, to plague honest folks that may chance to
be awee ahint the hand, like me."

"If our debtors were a' sic honest gentlemen as I believe you to be, Garschattachin," replied
the Bailie, "conscience! we might save ourselves a labour, for they wad come to seek us."

"Eh! what! how!" exclaimed the person whom he had addressed,--"as I shall live by bread (not
forgetting beef and brandy), it's my auld friend Nicol Jarvie, the best man that ever counted
doun merks on a band till a distressed gentleman. Were ye na coming up my way?--were ye na
coming up the Endrick to Garschattachin?"

"Troth no, Maister Galbraith," replied the Bailie, "I had other eggs on the spit--and I thought
ye wad be saying I cam to look about the annual rent that's due on the bit heritable band that's
between us."

"Damn the annual rent!" said the laird, with an appearance of great heartiness--"Deil a word
o' business will you or I speak, now that ye're so near my country. To see how a trot-cosey
and a joseph can disguise a man--that I suldna ken my auld feal friend the deacon!"

"The Bailie, if ye please," resumed my companion; "but I ken what gars ye mistak--the band
was granted to my father that's happy, and he was deacon; but his name was Nicol as weel as
mine. I dinna mind that there's been a payment of principal sum or annual rent on it in my
day, and doubtless that has made the mistake."

"Weel, the devil take the mistake and all that occasioned it!" replied Mr. Galbraith. "But
I am glad ye are a bailie. Gentlemen, fill a brimmer--this is my excellent friend, Bailie Nicol
Jarvie's health--I ken'd him and his father these twenty years. Are ye a' cleared kelty aff?--Fill
anither. Here's to his being sune provost--I say provost--Lord Provost Nicol Jarvie!--and them
that affirms there's a man walks the Hie-street o' Glasgow that's fitter for the office, they
will do weel not to let me, Duncan Galbraith of Garschattachin, hear them say sae--that's all."
And therewith Duncan Galbraith martially cocked his hat, and placed it on one side of his head
with an air of defiance.

The brandy was probably the best recommendation of there complimentary toasts to the two Highlanders,
who drank them without appearing anxious to comprehend their purport. They commenced a conversation
with Mr. Galbraith in Gaelic, which he talked with perfect fluency, being, as I afterwards
learned, a near neighbour to the Highlands.

"I ken'd that Scant-o'-grace weel eneugh frae the very outset," said the Bailie, in a whisper
to me; "but when blude was warm, and swords were out at ony rate, wha kens what way he might
hae thought o' paying his debts? it will be lang or he does it in common form. But he's an
honest lad, and has a warm heart too; he disna come often to the Cross o' Glasgow, but mony
a buck and blackcock he sends us doun frae the hills. And I can want my siller weel eneugh.
My father the deacon had a great regard for the family of Garschattachin."

Supper being now nearly ready, I looked round for Andrew Fairservice; but that trusty follower
had not been seen by any one since the beginning of the rencontre. The hostess, however, said
that she believed our servant had gone into the stable, and offered to light me to the place,
saying that "no entreaties of the bairns or hers could make him give any answer; and that truly
she caredna to gang into the stable herself at this hour. She was a lone woman, and it was
weel ken'd how the Brownie of Ben-ye-gask guided the gudewife of Ardnagowan; and it was aye
judged there was a Brownie in our stable, which was just what garr'd me gie ower keeping an
hostler."

As, however, she lighted me towards the miserable hovel into which they had crammed our unlucky
steeds, to regale themselves on hay, every fibre of which was as thick as an ordinary goose-quill,
she plainly showed me that she had another reason for drawing me aside from the company than
that which her words implied. "Read that," she said, slipping a piece of paper into my hand,
as we arrived at the door of the shed; "I bless God I am rid o't. Between sogers and Saxons,
and caterans and cattle-lifters, and hership and bluidshed, an honest woman wad live quieter
in hell than on the Hieland line."

So saying, she put the pine-torch into my hand, and returned into the house,

CHAPTER TWELFTH.

              Bagpipes, not lyres, the Highland hills adorn,
              MacLean's loud hollo, and MacGregor's horn.
                          John Cooper's Reply to Allan Ramsay.

I stopped in the entrance of the stable, if indeed a place be entitled to that name where horses
were stowed away along with goats, poultry, pigs, and cows, under the same roof with the mansion-house;
although, by a degree of refinement unknown to the rest of the hamlet, and which I afterwards
heard was imputed to an overpride on the part of Jeanie MacAlpine, our landlady, the apartment
was accommodated with an entrance different from that used by her biped customers. By the light
of my torch, I deciphered the following billet, written on a wet, crumpled, and dirty piece
of paper, and addressed--"For the honoured hands of Mr. F. O., a Saxon young gentleman--These."
The contents were as follows:--

"Sir,

"There are night-hawks abroad, so that I cannot give you and my respected kinsman, B. N. J.,
the meeting at the Clachan of Aberfoil, whilk was my purpose. I pray you to avoid unnecessary
communication with those you may find there, as it may give future trouble. The person who
gives you this is faithful and may be trusted, and will guide you to a place where, God willing,
I may safely give you the meeting, when I trust my kinsman and you will visit my poor house,
where, in despite of my enemies, I can still promise sic cheer as ane Hielandman may gie his
friends, and where we will drink a solemn health to a certain D. V., and look to certain affairs
whilk I hope to be your aidance in; and I rest, as is wont among gentlemen,

your servant to command, R. M. C."

I was a good deal mortified at the purport of this letter, which seemed to adjourn to a more
distant place and date the service which I had hoped to receive from this man Campbell. Still,
however, it was some comfort to know that he continued to be in my interest, since without
him I could have no hope of recovering my father's papers. I resolved, therefore, to obey his
instructions; and, observing all caution before the guests, to take the first good opportunity
I could find to procure from the landlady directions how I was to obtain a meeting with this
mysterious person.

My next business was to seek out Andrew Fairservice, whom I called several times by name, without
receiving any answer, surveying the stable all round, at the same time, not without risk of
setting the premises on fire, had not the quantity of wet litter and mud so greatly counterbalanced
two or three bunches of straw and hay. At length my repeated cries of "Andrew Fairservice!
Andrew! fool!--ass! where are you?" produced a doleful "Here," in a groaning tone, which might
have been that of the Brownie itself. Guided by this sound, I advanced to the corner of a shed,
where, ensconced in the angle of the wall, behind a barrel full of the feathers of all the
fowls which had died in the cause of the public for a month past, I found the manful Andrew;
and partly by force, partly by command and exhortation, compelled him forth into the open air.
The first words he spoke were, "I am an honest lad, sir."

"Who the devil questions your honesty?" said I, "or what have we to do with it at present?
I desire you to come and attend us at supper."

"Yes," reiterated Andrew, without apparently understanding what I said to him, "I am an honest
lad, whatever the Bailie may say to the contrary. I grant the warld and the warld's gear sits
ower near my heart whiles, as it does to mony a ane--But I am an honest lad; and, though I
spak o' leaving ye in the muir, yet God knows it was far frae my purpose, but just like idle
things folk says when they're driving a bargain, to get it as far to their ain side as they
can--And I like your honour weel for sae young a lad, and I wadna part wi' ye lightly."

"What the deuce are you driving at now?" I replied. "Has not everything been settled again
and again to your satisfaction? And are you to talk of leaving me every hour, without either
rhyme or reason?"

"Ay,--but I was only making fashion before," replied Andrew; "but it's come on me in sair earnest
now--Lose or win, I daur gae nae farther wi' your honour; and if ye'll tak my foolish advice,
ye'll bide by a broken tryste, rather than gang forward yoursell. I hae a sincere regard for
ye, and I'm sure ye'll be a credit to your friends if ye live to saw out your wild aits, and
get some mair sense and steadiness--But I can follow ye nae farther, even if ye suld founder
and perish from the way for lack of guidance and counsel. To gang into Rob Roy's country is
a mere tempting o' Providence."

"Rob Roy?" said I, in some surprise; "I know no such person. What new trick is this, Andrew?"

"It's hard," said Andrew--"very hard, that a man canna be believed when he speaks Heaven's
truth, just because he's whiles owercome, and tells lees a little when there is necessary occasion.
Ye needna ask whae Rob Roy is, the reiving lifter that he is--God forgie me! I hope naebody
hears us--when ye hae a letter frae him in your pouch. I heard ane o' his gillies bid that
auld rudas jaud of a gudewife gie ye that. They thought I didna understand their gibberish;
but, though I canna speak it muckle, I can gie a gude guess at what I hear them say--I never
thought to hae tauld ye that, but in a fright a' things come out that suld be keepit in. O,
Maister Frank! a' your uncle's follies, and a' your cousin's pliskies, were naething to this!

Andrew's alarm was too sincere to permit me to suppose he counterfeited. I contented myself,
however, with telling him, that I meant to remain in the alehouse that night, and desired to
have the horses well looked after. As to the rest, I charged him to observe the strictest silence
upon the subject of his alarm, and he might rely upon it I would not incur any serious danger
without due precaution. He followed me with a dejected air into the house, observing between
his teeth, "Man suld be served afore beast--I haena had a morsel in my mouth, but the rough
legs o' that auld muircock, this haill blessed day."

The harmony of the company seemed to have suffered some interruption since my departure, for
I found Mr. Galbraith and my friend the Bailie high in dispute.

"I'll hear nae sic language," said Mr. Jarvie, as I entered, "respecting the Duke o' Argyle
and the name o' Campbell. He's a worthy public-spirited nobleman, and a credit to the country,
and a friend and benefactor to the trade o' Glasgow."

"I'll sae naething against MacCallum More and the Slioch-nan-Diarmid," said the lesser Highlander,
laughing. "I live on the wrang side of Glencroe to quarrel with Inverara."

"Our loch ne'er saw the Cawmil lymphads,"* said the bigger Highlander.

* Lymphads. The galley which the family of Argyle and others of the * Clan Campbell carry in
their arms.

"She'll speak her mind and fear naebody--She doesna value a Cawmil mair as a Cowan, and ye
may tell MacCallum More that Allan Iverach said sae-- It's a far cry to Lochow."*

* Lochow and the adjacent districts formed the original seat of the * Campbells. The expression
of a "far cry to Lochow" was proverbial.

Mr. Galbraith, on whom the repeated pledges which he had quaffed had produced some influence,
slapped his hand on the table with great force, and said, in a stern voice, "There's a bloody
debt due by that family, and they will pay it one day--The banes of a loyal and a gallant Grahame
hae lang rattled in their coffin for vengeance on thae Dukes of Guile and Lords for Lorn. There
ne'er was treason in Scotland but a Cawmil was at the bottom o't; and now that the wrang side's
uppermost, wha but the Cawmils for keeping down the right? But this warld winna last lang,
and it will be time to sharp the maiden* for shearing o' craigs and thrapples. I hope to see
the auld rusty lass linking at a bluidy harst again."

* A rude kind of guillotine formerly used in Scotland.

"For shame, Garschattachin!" exclaimed the Bailie; "fy for shame, sir! Wad ye say sic things
before a magistrate, and bring yoursell into trouble?--How d'ye think to mainteen your family
and satisfy your creditors (mysell and others), if ye gang on in that wild way, which cannot
but bring you under the law, to the prejudice of a' that's connected wi' ye?"

"D--n my creditors!" retorted the gallant Galbraith, "and you if ye be ane o' them! I say there
will be a new warld sune--And we shall hae nae Cawmils cocking their bonnet sae hie, and hounding
their dogs where they daurna come themsells, nor protecting thieves, nor murderers, and oppressors,
to harry and spoil better men and mair loyal clans than themsells."

The Bailie had a great mind to have continued the dispute, when the savoury vapour of the broiled
venison, which our landlady now placed before us, proved so powerful a mediator, that he betook
himself to his trencher with great eagerness, leaving the strangers to carry on the dispute
among themselves.

"And tat's true," said the taller Highlander--whose name I found was Stewart--"for we suldna
be plagued and worried here wi' meetings to pit down Rob Roy, if the Cawmils didna gie him
refutch. I was ane o' thirty o' my ain name--part Glenfinlas, and part men that came down frae
Appine. We shased the MacGregors as ye wad shase rae-deer, till we came into Glenfalloch's
country, and the Cawmils raise, and wadna let us pursue nae farder, and sae we lost our labour;
but her wad gie twa and a plack to be as near Rob as she was tat day."

It seemed to happen very unfortunately, that in every topic of discourse which these warlike
gentlemen introduced, my friend the Bailie found some matter of offence. "Ye'll forgie me speaking
my mind, sir; but ye wad maybe hae gien the best bowl in your bonnet to hae been as far awae
frae Rob as ye are e'en now--Od! my het pleugh-culter wad hae been naething to his claymore."

"She had better speak nae mair about her culter, or, by G--! her will gar her eat her words,
and twa handfuls o' cauld steel to drive them ower wi'!" And, with a most inauspicious and
menacing look, the mountaineer laid his hand on his dagger.

"We'll hae nae quarrelling, Allan," said his shorter companion; "and if the Glasgow gentleman
has ony regard for Rob Roy, he'll maybe see him in cauld irons the night, and playing tricks
on a tow the morn; for this country has been owre lang plagued wi' him, and his race is near-hand
run--And it's time, Allan, we were ganging to our lads."

"Hout awa, Inverashalloch," said Galbraith;--"Mind the auld saw, man-- It's a bauld moon, quoth
Bennygask--another pint, quoth Lesley;--we'll no start for another chappin."

"I hae had chappins eneugh," said Inverashalloch; "I'll drink my quart of usquebaugh or brandy
wi' ony honest fellow, but the deil a drap mair when I hae wark to do in the morning. And,
in my puir thinking, Garschattachin, ye had better be thinking to bring up your horsemen to
the Clachan before day, that we may ay start fair."

"What the deevil are ye in sic a hurry for?" said Garschattachin; "meat and mass never hindered
wark. An it had been my directing, deil a bit o' me wad hae fashed ye to come down the glens
to help us. The garrison and our ain horse could hae taen Rob Roy easily enough. There's the
hand," he said, holding up his own, "should lay him on the green, and never ask a Hielandman
o' ye a' for his help."

"Ye might hae loot us bide still where we were, then," said Inverashalloch. "I didna come sixty
miles without being sent for. But an ye'll hae my opinion, I redd ye keep your mouth better
steekit, if ye hope to speed. Shored folk live lang, and sae may him ye ken o'. The way to
catch a bird is no to fling your bannet at her. And also thae gentlemen hae heard some things
they suldna hae heard, an the brandy hadna been ower bauld for your brain, Major Galbraith.
Ye needna cock your hat and bully wi' me, man, for I will not bear it."

"I hae said it," said Galbraith, with a solemn air of drunken gravity, "that I will quarrel
no more this night either with broadcloth or tartan. When I am off duty I'll quarrel with you
or ony man in the Hielands or Lowlands, but not on duty--no--no. I wish we heard o' these red-coats.
If it had been to do onything against King James, we wad hae seen them lang syne--but when
it's to keep the peace o' the country they can lie as lound as their neighbours."

As he spoke we heard the measured footsteps of a body of infantry on the march; and an officer,
followed by two or three files of soldiers, entered the apartment. He spoke in an English accent,
which was very pleasant to my ears, now so long accustomed to the varying brogue of the Highland
and Lowland Scotch.--"You are, I suppose, Major Galbraith, of the squadron of Lennox Militia,
and these are the two Highland gentlemen with whom I was appointed to meet in this place?"

They assented, and invited the officer to take some refreshments, which he declined.--"I have
been too late, gentlemen, and am desirous to make up time. I have orders to search for and
arrest two persons guilty of treasonable practices."

"We'll wash our hands o' that," said Inverashalloch. "I came here wi' my men to fight against
the red MacGregor that killed my cousin, seven times removed, Duncan MacLaren, in Invernenty;*
but I will hae nothing to do touching honest gentlemen that may be gaun through the country
on their ain business."

* This, as appears from the introductory matter to this Tale, is an anachronism. The slaughter
of MacLaren, a retainer of the chief of Appine, by the MacGregors, did not take place till
after Rob Roy's death, since it happened in 1736.

"Nor I neither," said Iverach.

Major Galbraith took up the matter more solemnly, and, premising his oration with a hiccup,
spoke to the following purpose:--

"I shall say nothing against King George, Captain, because, as it happens, my commission may
rin in his name--But one commission being good, sir, does not make another bad; and some think
that James may be just as good a name as George. There's the king that is--and there's the
king that suld of right be--I say, an honest man may and suld be loyal to them both, Captain.
But I am of the Lord Lieutenant's opinion for the time, as it becomes a militia officer and
a depute-lieutenant--and about treason and all that, it's lost time to speak of it--least said
is sunest mended."

"I am sorry to see how you have been employing your time, sir," replied the English officer--as
indeed the honest gentleman's reasoning had a strong relish of the liquor he had been drinking--"and
I could wish, sir, it had been otherwise on an occasion of this consequence. I would recommend
to you to try to sleep for an hour.--Do these gentlemen belong to your party?"--looking at
the Bailie and me, who, engaged in eating our supper, had paid little attention to the officer
on his entrance.

"Travellers, sir," said Galbraith--"lawful travellers by sea and land, as the prayer-book hath it."

"My instructions." said the Captain, taking a light to survey us closer, "are to place under
arrest an elderly and a young person--and I think these gentlemen answer nearly the description."

"Take care what you say, sir," said Mr. Jarvie; "it shall not be your red coat nor your laced
hat shall protect you, if you put any affront on me. I'se convene ye baith in an action of
scandal and false imprisonment--I am a free burgess and a magistrate o' Glasgow; Nicol Jarvie
is my name, sae was my father's afore me--I am a bailie, be praised for the honour, and my
father was a deacon."

"He was a prick-eared cur," said Major Galbraith, "and fought agane the King at Bothwell Brigg."

"He paid what he ought and what he bought, Mr. Galbraith," said the Bailie, "and was an honester
man than ever stude on your shanks."

"I have no time to attend to all this," said the officer; "I must positively detain you, gentlemen,
unless you can produce some respectable security that you are loyal subjects."

"I desire to be carried before some civil magistrate," said the Bailie--"the sherra or the
judge of the bounds;--I am not obliged to answer every red-coat that speers questions at me."

"Well, sir, I shall know how to manage you if you are silent--And you, sir" (to me), "what
may your name be?"

"Francis Osbaldistone, sir."

"What, a son of Sir Hildebrand Osbaldistone of Northumberland?"

"No, sir," interrupted the Bailie; "a son of the great William Osbaldistone of the House of
Osbaldistone and Tresham, Crane-Alley, London."

"I am afraid, sir," said the officer, "your name only increases the suspicions against you,
and lays me under the necessity of requesting that you will give up what papers you have in
charge."

I observed the Highlanders look anxiously at each other when this proposal was made.

"I had none," I replied, "to surrender."

The officer commanded me to be disarmed and searched. To have resisted would have been madness.
I accordingly gave up my arms, and submitted to a search, which was conducted as civilly as
an operation of the kind well could. They found nothing except the note which I had received
that night through the hand of the landlady.

"This is different from what I expected," said the officer; "but it affords us good grounds
for detaining you. Here I find you in written communication with the outlawed robber, Robert
MacGregor Campbell, who has been so long the plague of this district--How do you account for that?"

"Spies of Rob!" said Inverashalloch. "We wad serve them right to strap them up till the neist
tree."

"We are gaun to see after some gear o' our ain, gentlemen," said the Bailie, "that's fa'en
into his hands by accident--there's nae law agane a man looking after his ain, I hope?"

"How did you come by this letter?" said the officer, addressing himself to me.

I could not think of betraying the poor woman who had given it to me, and remained silent.

"Do you know anything of it, fellow?" said the officer, looking at Andrew, whose jaws were
chattering like a pair of castanets at the threats thrown out by the Highlander.

"O ay, I ken a' about it--it was a Hieland loon gied the letter to that lang-tongued jaud the
gudewife there; I'll be sworn my maister ken'd naething about it. But he's wilfu' to gang up
the hills and speak wi' Rob; and oh, sir, it wad be a charity just to send a wheen o' your
red-coats to see him safe back to Glasgow again whether he will or no--And ye can keep Mr.
Jarvie as lang as ye like--He's responsible enough for ony fine ye may lay on him--and so's
my master for that matter; for me, I'm just a puir gardener lad, and no worth your steering."

"I believe," said the officer, "the best thing I can do is to send these persons to the garrison
under an escort. They seem to be in immediate correspondence with the enemy, and I shall be
in no respect answerable for suffering them to be at liberty. Gentlemen, you will consider
yourselves as my prisoners. So soon as dawn approaches, I will send you to a place of security.
If you be the persons you describe yourselves, it will soon appear, and you will sustain no
great inconvenience from being detained a day or two. I can hear no remonstrances," he continued,
turning away from the Bailie, whose mouth was open to address him; "the service I am on gives
me no time for idle discussions."

"Aweel, aweel, sir," said the Bailie, "you're welcome to a tune on your ain fiddle; but see
if I dinna gar ye dance till't afore a's dune."

An anxious consultation now took place between the officer and the Highlanders, but carried
on in so low a tone, that it was impossible to catch the sense. So soon as it was concluded
they all left the house. At their departure, the Bailie thus expressed himself:--"Thae Hielandmen
are o' the westland clans, and just as light-handed as their neighbours, an a' tales be true,
and yet ye see they hae brought them frae the head o' Argyleshire to make war wi' puir Rob
for some auld ill-will that they hae at him and his sirname. And there's the Grahames, and
the Buchanans, and the Lennox gentry, a' mounted and in order--It's weel ken'd their quarrel;
and I dinna blame them--naebody likes to lose his kye. And then there's sodgers, puir things,
hoyed out frae the garrison at a' body's bidding--Puir Rob will hae his hands fu' by the time
the sun comes ower the hill. Weel--it's wrang for a magistrate to be wishing onything agane
the course o' justice, but deil o' me an I wad break my heart to hear that Rob had gien them
a' their paiks!"

CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

                              --General,
                 Hear me, and mark me well, and look upon me
                 Directly in my face--my woman's face--
                 See if one fear, one shadow of a terror,
                 One paleness dare appear, but from my anger,
                       To lay hold on your mercies.
                                               Bonduca.

We were permitted to slumber out the remainder of the night in the best manner that the miserable
accommodations of the alehouse permitted. The Bailie, fatigued with his journey and the subsequent
scenes--less interested also in the event of our arrest, which to him could only be a matter
of temporary inconvenience--perhaps less nice than habit had rendered me about the cleanliness
or decency of his couch,--tumbled himself into one of the cribs which I have already described,
and soon was heard to snore soundly. A broken sleep, snatched by intervals, while I rested
my head upon the table, was my only refreshment. In the course of the night I had occasion
to observe that there seemed to be some doubt and hesitation in the motions of the soldiery.
Men were sent out, as if to obtain intelligence, and returned apparently without bringing any
satisfactory information to their commanding officer. He was obviously eager and anxious, and
again despatched small parties of two or three men, some of whom, as I could understand from
what the others whispered to each other, did not return again to the Clachan.

The morning had broken, when a corporal and two men rushed into the hut, dragging after them,
in a sort of triumph, a Highlander, whom I immediately recognised as my acquaintance the ex-turnkey.
The Bailie, who started up at the noise with which they entered, immediately made the same
discovery, and exclaimed--"Mercy on us! they hae grippit the puir creature Dougal.--Captain,
I will put in bail--sufficient bail, for that Dougal creature."

To this offer, dictated undoubtedly by a grateful recollection of the late interference of
the Highlander in his behalf, the Captain only answered by requesting Mr. Jarvie to "mind his
own affairs, and remember that he was himself for the present a prisoner."

"I take you to witness, Mr. Osbaldistone," said the Bailie, who was probably better acquainted
with the process in civil than in military cases, "that he has refused sufficient bail. It's
my opinion that the creature Dougal will have a good action of wrongous imprisonment and damages
agane him, under the Act seventeen hundred and one, and I'll see the creature righted."

The officer, whose name I understood was Thornton, paying no attention to the Bailie's threats
or expostulations, instituted a very close inquiry into Dougal's life and conversation, and
compelled him to admit, though with apparent reluctance, the successive facts,--that he knew
Rob Roy MacGregor--that he had seen him within these twelve months--within these six months--within
this month--within this week; in fine, that he had parted from him only an hour ago. All this
detail came like drops of blood from the prisoner, and was, to all appearance, only extorted
by the threat of a halter and the next tree, which Captain Thornton assured him should be his
doom, if he did not give direct and special information.

"And now, my friend," said the officer, "you will please inform me how many men your master
has with him at present."

Dougal looked in every direction except at the querist, and began to answer, "She canna just
be sure about that."

"Look at me, you Highland dog," said the officer, "and remember your life depends on your answer.
How many rogues had that outlawed scoundrel with him when you left him?"

"Ou, no aboon sax rogues when I was gane."

"And where are the rest of his banditti?"

"Gane wi' the Lieutenant agane ta westland carles."

"Against the westland clans?" said the Captain. "Umph--that is likely enough; and what rogue's
errand were you despatched upon?"

"Just to see what your honour and ta gentlemen red-coats were doing doun here at ta Clachan."

"The creature will prove fause-hearted, after a'," said the Bailie, who by this time had planted
himself close behind me; "it's lucky I didna pit mysell to expenses anent him."

"And now, my friend," said the Captain, "let us understand each other. You have confessed yourself
a spy, and should string up to the next tree--But come, if you will do me one good turn, I
will do you another. You, Donald--you shall just, in the way of kindness, carry me and a small
party to the place where you left your master, as I wish to speak a few words with him on serious
affairs; and I'll let you go about your business, and give you five guineas to boot."

"Oigh! oigh!" exclaimed Dougal, in the extremity of distress and perplexity; "she canna do
tat--she canna do tat; she'll rather be hanged."

"Hanged, then, you shall be, my friend" said the officer; "and your blood be upon your own
head. Corporal Cramp, do you play Provost-Marshal--away with him!"

The corporal had confronted poor Dougal for some time, ostentatiously twisting a piece of cord
which he had found in the house into the form of a halter. He now threw it about the culprit's
neck, and, with the assistance of two soldiers, had dragged Dougal as far as the door, when,
overcome with the terror of immediate death, he exclaimed, "Shentlemans, stops--stops! She'll
do his honour's bidding--stops!"

"Awa' wi' the creature!" said the Bailie, "he deserves hanging mair now than ever; awa' wi'
him, corporal. Why dinna ye tak him awa'?"

"It's my belief and opinion, honest gentleman," said the corporal, "that if you were going
to be hanged yourself, you would be in no such d--d hurry."

This by-dialogue prevented my hearing what passed between the prisoner and Captain Thornton;
but I heard the former snivel out, in a very subdued tone, "And ye'll ask her to gang nae farther
than just to show ye where the MacGregor is?--Ohon! ohon!"

"Silence your howling, you rascal--No; I give you my word I will ask you to go no farther.--Corporal,
make the men fall in, in front of the houses. Get out these gentlemen's horses; we must carry
them with us. I cannot spare any men to guard them here. Come, my lads, get under arms."

The soldiers bustled about, and were ready to move. We were led out, along with Dougal, in
the capacity of prisoners. As we left the hut, I heard our companion in captivity remind the
Captain of "ta foive kuineas."

"Here they are for you," said the officer, putting gold into his hand; "but observe, that if
you attempt to mislead me, I will blow your brains out with my own hand."

"The creature," said the Bailie, "is waur than I judged him--it is a warldly and a perfidious
creature. O the filthy lucre of gain that men gies themsells up to! My father the deacon used
to say, the penny siller slew mair souls than the naked sword slew bodies."

The landlady now approached, and demanded payment of her reckoning, including all that had
been quaffed by Major Galbraith and his Highland friends. The English officer remonstrated,
but Mrs. MacAlpine declared, if "she hadna trusted to his honour's name being used in their
company, she wad never hae drawn them a stoup o' liquor; for Mr. Galbraith, she might see him
again, or she might no, but weel did she wot she had sma' chance of seeing her siller--and
she was a puir widow, had naething but her custom to rely on."

Captain Thornton put a stop to her remonstrances by paying the charge, which was only a few
English shillings, though the amount sounded very formidable in Scottish denominations. The
generous officer would have included Mr. Jarvie and me in this general acquittance; but the
Bailie, disregarding an intimation from the landlady to "make as muckle of the Inglishers as
we could, for they were sure to gie us plague eneugh," went into a formal accounting respecting
our share of the reckoning, and paid it accordingly. The Captain took the opportunity to make
us some slight apology for detaining us. "If we were loyal and peaceable subjects," he said,
"we would not regret being stopt for a day, when it was essential to the king's service; if
otherwise, he was acting according to his duty."

We were compelled to accept an apology which it would have served no purpose to refuse, and
we sallied out to attend him on his march.

I shall never forget the delightful sensation with which I exchanged the dark, smoky, smothering
atmosphere of the Highland hut, in which we had passed the night so uncomfortably, for the
refreshing fragrance of the morning air, and the glorious beams of the rising sun, which, from
a tabernacle of purple and golden clouds, were darted full on such a scene of natural romance
and beauty as had never before greeted my eyes. To the left lay the valley, down which the
Forth wandered on its easterly course, surrounding the beautiful detached hill, with all its
garland of woods. On the right, amid a profusion of thickets, knolls, and crags, lay the bed
of a broad mountain lake, lightly curled into tiny waves by the breath of the morning breeze,
each glittering in its course under the influence of the sunbeams. High hills, rocks, and banks,
waving with natural forests of birch and oak, formed the borders of this enchanting sheet of
water; and, as their leaves rustled to the wind and twinkled in the sun, gave to the depth
of solitude a sort of life and vivacity. Man alone seemed to be placed in a state of inferiority,
in a scene where all the ordinary features of nature were raised and exalted. The miserable
little bourocks, as the Bailie termed them, of which about a dozen formed the village called
the Clachan of Aberfoil, were composed of loose stones, cemented by clay instead of mortar,
and thatched by turfs, laid rudely upon rafters formed of native and unhewn birches and oaks
from the woods around. The roofs approached the ground so nearly, that Andrew Fairservice observed
we might have ridden over the village the night before, and never found out we were near it,
unless our horses' feet had "gane through the riggin'."

From all we could see, Mrs. MacAlpine's house, miserable as were the quarters it afforded,
was still by far the best in the hamlet; and I dare say (if my description gives you any curiosity
to see it) you will hardly find it much improved at the present day, for the Scotch are not
a people who speedily admit innovation, even when it comes in the shape of improvement.*

* Note I. Clachan of Aberfoil.

The inhabitants of these miserable dwellings were disturbed by the noise of our departure;
and as our party of about twenty soldiers drew up in rank before marching off, we were reconnoitred
by many a beldam from the half-opened door of her cottage. As these sibyls thrust forth their
grey heads, imperfectly covered with close caps of flannel, and showed their shrivelled brows,
and long skinny arms, with various gestures, shrugs, and muttered expressions in Gaelic addressed
to each other, my imagination recurred to the witches of Macbeth, and I imagined I read in
the features of these crones the malevolence of the weird sisters. The little children also,
who began to crawl forth, some quite naked, and others very imperfectly covered with tatters
of tartan stuff, clapped their tiny hands, and grinned at the English soldiers, with an expression
of national hate and malignity which seemed beyond their years. I remarked particularly that
there were no men, nor so much as a boy of ten or twelve years old, to be seen among the inhabitants
of a village which seemed populous in proportion to its extent; and the idea certainly occurred
to me, that we were likely to receive from them, in the course of our journey, more effectual
tokens of ill-will than those which lowered on the visages, and dictated the murmurs, of the
women and children. It was not until we commenced our march that the malignity of the elder
persons of the community broke forth into expressions. The last file of men had left the village,
to pursue a small broken track, formed by the sledges in which the natives transported their
peats and turfs, and which led through the woods that fringed the lower end of the lake, when
a shrilly sound of female exclamation broke forth, mixed with the screams of children, the
whooping of boys, and the clapping of hands, with which the Highland dames enforce their notes,
whether of rage or lamentation. I asked Andrew, who looked as pale as death, what all this meant.

"I doubt we'll ken that ower sune," said he. "Means? It means that the Highland wives are cursing
and banning the red-coats, and wishing ill-luck to them, and ilka ane that ever spoke the Saxon
tongue. I have heard wives flyte in England and Scotland--it's nae marvel to hear them flyte
ony gate; but sic ill-scrapit tongues as thae Highland carlines'--and sic grewsome wishes,
that men should be slaughtered like sheep--and that they may lapper their hands to the elbows
in their heart's blude--and that they suld dee the death of Walter Cuming of Guiyock,* wha
hadna as muckle o' him left thegither as would supper a messan-dog--sic awsome language as
that I ne'er heard out o' a human thrapple;--and, unless the deil wad rise amang them to gie
them a lesson, I thinkna that their talent at cursing could be amended.

* A great feudal oppressor, who, riding on some cruel purpose through the forest of Guiyock,
was thrown from his horse, and his foot being caught in the stirrup, was dragged along by the
frightened animal till he was torn to pieces. The expression, "Walter of Guiyock's curse,"
is proverbial.

The warst o't is, they bid us aye gang up the loch, and see what we'll land in."

Adding Andrew's information to what I had myself observed, I could scarce doubt that some attack
was meditated upon our party. The road, as we advanced, seemed to afford every facility for
such an unpleasant interruption. At first it winded apart from the lake through marshy meadow
ground, overgrown with copsewood, now traversing dark and close thickets which would have admitted
an ambuscade to be sheltered within a few yards of our line of march, and frequently crossing
rough mountain torrents, some of which took the soldiers up to the knees, and ran with such
violence, that their force could only be stemmed by the strength of two or three men holding
fast by each other's arms. It certainly appeared to me, though altogether unacquainted with
military affairs, that a sort of half-savage warriors, as I had heard the Highlanders asserted
to be, might, in such passes as these, attack a party of regular forces with great advantage.
The Bailie's good sense and shrewd observation had led him to the same conclusion, as I understood
from his requesting to speak with the captain, whom he addressed nearly in the following terms:--
"Captain, it's no to fleech ony favour out o' ye, for I scorn it--and it's under protest that
I reserve my action and pleas of oppression and wrongous imprisonment;--but, being a friend
to King George and his army, I take the liberty to speer--Dinna ye think ye might tak a better
time to gang up this glen? If ye are seeking Rob Roy, he's ken'd to be better than half a hunder
men strong when he's at the fewest; an if he brings in the Glengyle folk, and the Glenfinlas
and Balquhidder lads, he may come to gie you your kail through the reek; and it's my sincere
advice, as a king's friend, ye had better tak back again to the Clachan, for thae women at
Aberfoil are like the scarts and seamaws at the Cumries--there's aye foul weather follows their
skirting."

"Make yourself easy, sir," replied Captain Thornton; "I am in the execution of my orders. And
as you say you are a friend to King George, you will be glad to learn that it is impossible
that this gang of ruffians, whose license has disturbed the country so long, can escape the
measures now taken to suppress them. The horse squadron of militia, commanded by Major Galbraith,
is already joined by two or more troops of cavalry, which will occupy all the lower passes
of this wild country; three hundred Highlanders, under the two gentlemen you saw at the inn,
are in possession of the upper part, and various strong parties from the garrison are securing
the hills and glens in different directions. Our last accounts of Rob Roy correspond with what
this fellow has confessed, that, finding himself surrounded on all sides, he had dismissed
the greater part of his followers, with the purpose either of lying concealed, or of making
his escape through his superior knowledge of the passes."

"I dinna ken," said the Bailie; "there's mair brandy than brains in Garschattachin's head this
morning--And I wadna, an I were you, Captain, rest my main dependence on the Hielandmen--hawks
winna pike out hawks' een. They may quarrel among themsells, and gie ilk ither ill names, and
maybe a slash wi' a claymore; but they are sure to join in the lang run, against a' civilised
folk, that wear breeks on their hinder ends, and hae purses in their pouches."

Apparently these admonitions were not altogether thrown away on Captain Thornton. He reformed
his line of march, commanded his soldiers to unsling their firelocks and fix their bayonets,
and formed an advanced and rear-guard, each consisting of a non-commissioned officer and two
soldiers, who received strict orders to keep an alert look-out. Dougal underwent another and
very close examination, in which he steadfastly asserted the truth of what he had before affirmed;
and being rebuked on account of the suspicious and dangerous appearance of the route by which
he was guiding them, he answered with a sort of testiness that seemed very natural, "Her nainsell
didna mak ta road; an shentlemans likit grand roads, she suld hae pided at Glasco."

All this passed off well enough, and we resumed our progress.

Our route, though leading towards the lake, had hitherto been so much shaded by wood, that
we only from time to time obtained a glimpse of that beautiful sheet of water. But the road
now suddenly emerged from the forest ground, and, winding close by the margin of the loch,
afforded us a full view of its spacious mirror, which now, the breeze having totally subsided,
reflected in still magnificence the high dark heathy mountains, huge grey rocks, and shaggy
banks, by which it is encircled. The hills now sunk on its margin so closely, and were so broken
and precipitous, as to afford no passage except just upon the narrow line of the track which
we occupied, and which was overhung with rocks, from which we might have been destroyed merely
by rolling down stones, without much possibility of offering resistance. Add to this, that,
as the road winded round every promontory and bay which indented the lake, there was rarely
a possibility of seeing a hundred yards before us. Our commander appeared to take some alarm
at the nature of the pass in which he was engaged, which displayed itself in repeated orders
to his soldiers to be on the alert, and in many threats of instant death to Dougal, if he should
be found to have led them into danger. Dougal received these threats with an air of stupid
impenetrability, which might arise either from conscious innocence, or from dogged resolution.

"If shentlemans were seeking ta Red Gregarach," he said, "to be sure they couldna expect to
find her without some wee danger."

Just as the Highlander uttered these words, a halt was made by the corporal commanding the
advance, who sent back one of the file who formed it, to tell the Captain that the path in
front was occupied by Highlanders, stationed on a commanding point of particular difficulty.
Almost at the same instant a soldier from the rear came to say, that they heard the sound of
a bagpipe in the woods through which we had just passed. Captain Thornton, a man of conduct
as well as courage, instantly resolved to force the pass in front, without waiting till he
was assailed from the rear; and, assuring his soldiers that the bagpipes which they heard were
those of the friendly Highlanders who were advancing to their assistance, he stated to them
the importance of advancing and securing Rob Roy, if possible, before these auxiliaries should
come up to divide with them the honour, as well as the reward which was placed on the head
of this celebrated freebooter. He therefore ordered the rearguard to join the centre, and both
to close up to the advance, doubling his files so as to occupy with his column the whole practicable
part of the road, and to present such a front as its breadth admitted. Dougal, to whom he said
in a whisper, "You dog, if you have deceived me, you shall die for it!" was placed in the centre,
between two grenadiers, with positive orders to shoot him if he attempted an escape. The same
situation was assigned to us, as being the safest, and Captain Thornton, taking his half-pike
from the soldier who carried it, placed himself at the head of his little detachment, and gave
the word to march forward.

The party advanced with the firmness of English soldiers. Not so Andrew Fairservice, who was
frightened out of his wits; and not so, if truth must be told, either the Bailie or I myself,
who, without feeling the same degree of trepidation, could not with stoical indifference see
our lives exposed to hazard in a quarrel with which we had no concern. But there was neither
time for remonstrance nor remedy.

We approached within about twenty yards of the spot where the advanced guard had seen some
appearance of an enemy. It was one of those promontories which run into the lake, and round
the base of which the road had hitherto winded in the manner I have described. In the present
case, however, the path, instead of keeping the water's edge, sealed the promontory by one
or two rapid zigzags, carried in a broken track along the precipitous face of a slaty grey
rock, which would otherwise have been absolutely inaccessible. On the top of this rock, only
to be approached by a road so broken, so narrow, and so precarious, the corporal declared he
had seen the bonnets and long-barrelled guns of several mountaineers, apparently couched among
the long heath and brushwood which crested the eminence. Captain Thornton ordered him to move
forward with three files, to dislodge the supposed ambuscade, while, at a more slow but steady
pace, he advanced to his support with the rest of his party.

The attack which he meditated was prevented by the unexpected apparition of a female upon the
summit of the rock.

"Stand!" she said, with a commanding tone, "and tell me what ye seek in MacGregor's country?"

I have seldom seen a finer or more commanding form than this woman. She might be between the
term of forty and fifty years, and had a countenance which must once have been of a masculine
cast of beauty; though now, imprinted with deep lines by exposure to rough weather, and perhaps
by the wasting influence of grief and passion, its features were only strong, harsh, and expressive.
She wore her plaid, not drawn around her head and shoulders, as is the fashion of the women
in Scotland, but disposed around her body as the Highland soldiers wear theirs. She had a man's
bonnet, with a feather in it, an unsheathed sword in her hand, and a pair of pistols at her girdle.

"It's Helen Campbell, Rob's wife," said the Bailie, in a whisper of considerable alarm; "and
there will be broken heads amang us or it's lang."

"What seek ye here?" she asked again of Captain Thornton, who had himself advanced to reconnoitre.

"We seek the outlaw, Rob Roy MacGregor Campbell," answered the officer, "and make no war on
women; therefore offer no vain opposition to the king's troops, and assure yourself of civil
treatment."

"Ay," retorted the Amazon, "I am no stranger to your tender mercies. Ye have left me neither
name nor fame--my mother's bones will shrink aside in their grave when mine are laid beside
them--Ye have left me neither house nor hold, blanket nor bedding, cattle to feed us, or flocks
to clothe us--Ye have taken from us all--all!--The very name of our ancestors have ye taken
away, and now ye come for our lives."

"I seek no man's life," replied the Captain; "I only execute my orders. If you are alone, good
woman, you have nought to fear--if there are any with you so rash as to offer useless resistance,
their own blood be on their own heads. Move forward, sergeant."

"Forward! march!" said the non-commissioned officer. "Huzza, my boys, for Rob Roy's head and
a purse of gold."

He quickened his pace into a run, followed by the six soldiers; but as they attained the first
traverse of the ascent, the flash of a dozen of firelocks from various parts of the pass parted
in quick succession and deliberate aim. The sergeant, shot through the body, still struggled
to gain the ascent, raised himself by his hands to clamber up the face of the rock, but relaxed
his grasp, after a desperate effort, and falling, rolled from the face of the cliff into the
deep lake, where he perished. Of the soldiers, three fell, slain or disabled; the others retreated
on their main body, all more or less wounded.

"Grenadiers, to the front!" said Captain Thornton.--You are to recollect, that in those days
this description of soldiers actually carried that destructive species of firework from which
they derive their name. The four grenadiers moved to the front accordingly. The officer commanded
the rest of the party to be ready to support them, and only saying to us, "Look to your safety,
gentlemen," gave, in rapid succession, the word to the grenadiers--"Open your pouches--handle
your grenades--blow your matches--fall on."

The whole advanced with a shout, headed by Captain Thornton,--the grenadiers preparing to throw
their grenades among the bushes where the ambuscade lay, and the musketeers to support them
by an instant and close assault. Dougal, forgotten in the scuffle, wisely crept into the thicket
which overhung that part of the road where we had first halted, which he ascended with the
activity of a wild cat. I followed his example, instinctively recollecting that the fire of
the Highlanders would sweep the open track. I clambered until out of breath; for a continued
spattering fire, in which every shot was multiplied by a thousand echoes, the hissing of the
kindled fusees of the grenades, and the successive explosion of those missiles, mingled with
the huzzas of the soldiers, and the yells and cries of their Highland antagonists, formed a
contrast which added--I do not shame to own it--wings to my desire to reach a place of safety.
The difficulties of the ascent soon increased so much, that I despaired of reaching Dougal,
who seemed to swing himself from rock to rock, and stump to stump, with the facility of a squirrel,
and I turned down my eyes to see what had become of my other companions. Both were brought
to a very awkward standstill.

The Bailie, to whom I suppose fear had given a temporary share of agility, had ascended about
twenty feet from the path, when his foot slipping, as he straddled from one huge fragment of
rock to another, he would have slumbered with his father the deacon, whose acts and words he
was so fond of quoting, but for a projecting branch of a ragged thorn, which, catching hold
of the skirts of his riding-coat, supported him in mid-air, where he dangled not unlike to
the sign of the Golden Fleece over the door of a mercer in the Trongate of his native city.

As for Andrew Fairservice, he had advanced with better success, until he had attained the top
of a bare cliff, which, rising above the wood, exposed him, at least in his own opinion, to
all the dangers of the neighbouring skirmish, while, at the same time, it was of such a precipitous
and impracticable nature, that he dared neither to advance nor retreat. Footing it up and down
upon the narrow space which the top of the cliff afforded (very like a fellow at a country-fair
dancing upon a trencher), he roared for mercy in Gaelic and English alternately, according
to the side on which the scale of victory seemed to predominate, while his exclamations were
only answered by the groans of the Bailie, who suffered much, not only from apprehension, but
from the pendulous posture in which he hung suspended by the loins.

On perceiving the Bailie's precarious situation, my first idea was to attempt to render him
assistance; but this was impossible without the concurrence of Andrew, whom neither sign, nor
entreaty, nor command, nor expostulation, could inspire with courage to adventure the descent
from his painful elevation, where, like an unskilful and obnoxious minister of state, unable
to escape from the eminence to which he had presumptuously ascended, he continued to pour forth
piteous prayers for mercy, which no one heard, and to skip to and fro, writhing his body into
all possible antic shapes to avoid the balls which he conceived to be whistling around him.

In a few minutes this cause of terror ceased, for the fire, at first so well sustained, now
sunk at once--a sure sign that the conflict was concluded. To gain some spot from which I could
see how the day had gone was now my object, in order to appeal to the mercy of the victors,
who, I trusted (whichever side might be gainers), would not suffer the honest Bailie to remain
suspended, like the coffin of Mahomet, between heaven and earth, without lending a hand to
disengage him. At length, by dint of scrambling, I found a spot which commanded a view of the
field of battle. It was indeed ended; and, as my mind already augured, from the place and circumstances
attending the contest, it had terminated in the defeat of Captain Thornton. I saw a party of
Highlanders in the act of disarming that officer, and the scanty remainder of his party. They
consisted of about twelve men most of whom were wounded, who, surrounded by treble their number,
and without the power either to advance or retreat, exposed to a murderous and well-aimed fire,
which they had no means of returning with effect, had at length laid down their arms by the
order of their officer, when he saw that the road in his rear was occupied, and that protracted
resistance would be only wasting the lives of his brave followers. By the Highlanders, who
fought under cover, the victory was cheaply bought, at the expense of one man slain and two
wounded by the grenades. All this I learned afterwards. At present I only comprehended the
general result of the day, from seeing the English officer, whose face was covered with blood,
stripped of his hat and arms, and his men, with sullen and dejected countenances which marked
their deep regret, enduring, from the wild and martial figures who surrounded them, the severe
measures to which the laws of war subject the vanquished for security of the victors.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN.

            "Woe to the vanquished!" was stern Brenno's word,
             When sunk proud Rome beneath the Gallic sword--
            "Woe to the vanquished!" when his massive blade
             Bore down the scale against her ransom weigh'd;
                And on the field of foughten battle still,
                Woe knows no limits save the victor's will.
                                                  The Gaulliad.

I anxiously endeavoured to distinguish Dougal among the victors. I had little doubt that the
part he had played was assumed, on purpose to lead the English officer into the defile, and
I could not help admiring the address with which the ignorant, and apparently half-brutal savage,
had veiled his purpose, and the affected reluctance with which he had suffered to be extracted
from him the false information which it must have been his purpose from the beginning to communicate.
I foresaw we should incur some danger on approaching the victors in the first flush of their
success, which was not unstained with cruelty; for one or two of the soldiers, whose wounds
prevented them from rising, were poniarded by the victors, or rather by some ragged Highland
boys who had mingled with them. I concluded, therefore, it would be unsafe to present ourselves
without some mediator; and as Campbell, whom I now could not but identify with the celebrated
freebooter Rob Roy, was nowhere to be seen, I resolved to claim the protection of his emissary,
Dougal.

After gazing everywhere in vain, I at length retraced my steps to see what assistance I could
individually render to my unlucky friend, when, to my great joy, I saw Mr. Jarvie delivered
from his state of suspense; and though very black in the face, and much deranged in the garments,
safely seated beneath the rock, in front of which he had been so lately suspended. I hastened
to join him and offer my congratulations, which he was at first far from receiving in the spirit
of cordiality with which they were offered. A heavy fit of coughing scarce permitted him breath
enough to express the broken hints which he threw out against my sincerity.

"Uh! uh! uh! uh!--they say a friend--uh! uh!--a friend sticketh closer than a brither--uh!
uh! uh! When I came up here, Maister Osbaldistone, to this country, cursed of God and man--uh!
uh--Heaven forgie me for swearing--on nae man's errand but yours, d'ye think it was fair--uh!
uh! uh!--to leave me, first, to be shot or drowned atween red-wad Highlanders and red-coats;
and next to be hung up between heaven and earth, like an auld potato-bogle, without sae muckle
as trying--uh! uh!--sae muckle as trying to relieve me?"

I made a thousand apologies, and laboured so hard to represent the impossibility of my affording
him relief by my own unassisted exertions, that at length I succeeded, and the Bailie, who
was as placable as hasty in his temper, extended his favour to me once more. I next took the
liberty of asking him how he had contrived to extricate himself.

"Me extricate! I might hae hung there till the day of judgment or I could hae helped mysell,
wi' my head hinging down on the tae side, and my heels on the tother, like the yarn-scales
in the weigh-house. It was the creature Dougal that extricated me, as he did yestreen; he cuttit
aff the tails o' my coat wi' his durk, and another gillie and him set me on my legs as cleverly
as if I had never been aff them. But to see what a thing gude braid claith is! Had I been in
ony o' your rotten French camlets now, or your drab-de-berries, it would hae screeded like
an auld rag wi' sic a weight as mine. But fair fa' the weaver that wrought the weft o't--I
swung and bobbit yonder as safe as a gabbart* that's moored by a three-ply cable at the Broomielaw."

* A kind of lighter used in the river Clyde,--probably from the French * abare.

I now inquired what had become of his preserver.

"The creature," so he continued to call the Highlandman, "contrived to let me ken there wad
be danger in gaun near the leddy till he came back, and bade me stay here. I am o' the mind,"
he continued, "that he's seeking after you--it's a considerate creature--and troth, I wad swear
he was right about the leddy, as he ca's her, too--Helen Campbell was nane o' the maist douce
maidens, nor meekest wives neither, and folk say that Rob himsell stands in awe o' her. I doubt
she winna ken me, for it's mony years since we met--I am clear for waiting for the Dougal creature
or we gang near her."

I signified my acquiescence in this reasoning; but it was not the will of fate that day that
the Bailie's prudence should profit himself or any one else.

Andrew Fairservice, though he had ceased to caper on the pinnacle upon the cessation of the
firing, which had given occasion for his whimsical exercise, continued, as perched on the top
of an exposed cliff, too conspicuous an object to escape the sharp eyes of the Highlanders,
when they had time to look a little around them. We were apprized he was discovered, by a wild
and loud halloo set up among the assembled victors, three or four of whom instantly plunged
into the copsewood, and ascended the rocky side of the hill in different directions towards
the place where they had discovered this whimsical apparition.

Those who arrived first within gunshot of poor Andrew, did not trouble themselves to offer
him any assistance in the ticklish posture of his affairs, but levelling their long Spanish-barrelled
guns, gave him to understand, by signs which admitted of no misconstruction, that he must contrive
to come down and submit himself to their mercy, or to be marked at from beneath, like a regimental
target set up for ball-practice. With such a formidable hint for venturous exertion, Andrew
Fairservice could no longer hesitate; the more imminent peril overcame his sense of that which
seemed less inevitable, and he began to descend the cliff at all risks, clutching to the ivy
and oak stumps, and projecting fragments of rock, with an almost feverish anxiety, and never
failing, as circumstances left him a hand at liberty, to extend it to the plaided gentry below
in an attitude of supplication, as if to deprecate the discharge of their levelled firearms.
In a word, the fellow, under the influence of a counteracting motive for terror, achieved a
safe descent from his perilous eminence, which, I verily believe, nothing but the fear of instant
death could have moved him to attempt. The awkward mode of Andrew's descent greatly amused
the Highlanders below, who fired a shot or two while he was engaged in it, without the purpose
of injuring him, as I believe, but merely to enhance the amusement they derived from his extreme
terror, and the superlative exertions of agility to which it excited him.

At length he attained firm and comparatively level ground--or rather, to speak more correctly,
his foot slipping at the last point of descent, he fell on the earth at his full length, and
was raised by the assistance of the Highlanders, who stood to receive him, and who, ere he
gained his legs, stripped him not only of the whole contents of his pockets, but of periwig,
hat, coat, doublet, stockings, and shoes, performing the feat with such admirable celerity,
that, although he fell on his back a well-clothed and decent burgher-seeming serving-man, he
arose a forked, uncased, bald-pated, beggarly-looking scarecrow. Without respect to the pain
which his undefended toes experienced from the sharp encounter of the rocks over which they
hurried him, those who had detected Andrew proceeded to drag him downward towards the road
through all the intervening obstacles.

In the course of their descent, Mr. Jarvie and I became exposed to their lynx-eyed observation,
and instantly half-a-dozen of armed Highlanders thronged around us, with drawn dirks and swords
pointed at our faces and throats, and cocked pistols presented against our bodies. To have
offered resistance would have been madness, especially as we had no weapons capable of supporting
such a demonstration. We therefore submitted to our fate; and with great roughness on the part
of those who assisted at our toilette, were in the act of being reduced to as unsophisticated
a state (to use King Lear's phrase) as the plume-less biped Andrew Fairservice, who stood shivering
between fear and cold at a few yards' distance. Good chance, however, saved us from this extremity
of wretchedness; for, just as I had yielded up my cravat (a smart Steinkirk, by the way, and
richly laced), and the Bailie had been disrobed of the fragments of his riding-coat--enter
Dougal, and the scene was changed. By a high tone of expostulation, mixed with oaths and threats,
as far as I could conjecture the tenor of his language from the violence of his gestures, he
compelled the plunderers, however reluctant, not only to give up their further depredations
on our property, but to restore the spoil they had already appropriated. He snatched my cravat
from the fellow who had seized it, and twisted it (in the zeal of his restitution) around my
neck with such suffocating energy as made me think that he had not only been, during his residence
at Glasgow, a substitute of the jailor, but must moreover have taken lessons as an apprentice
of the hangman. He flung the tattered remnants of Mr. Jarvie's coat around his shoulders, and
as more Highlanders began to flock towards us from the high road, he led the way downwards,
directing and commanding the others to afford us, but particularly the Bailie, the assistance
necessary to our descending with comparative ease and safety. It was, however, in vain that
Andrew Fairservice employed his lungs in obsecrating a share of Dougal's protection, or at
least his interference to procure restoration of his shoes.

"Na, na," said Dougal in reply, "she's nae gentle pody, I trow; her petters hae ganged parefoot,
or she's muckle mista'en." And, leaving Andrew to follow at his leisure, or rather at such
leisure as the surrounding crowd were pleased to indulge him with, he hurried us down to the
pathway in which the skirmish had been fought, and hastened to present us as additional captives
to the female leader of his band.

We were dragged before her accordingly, Dougal fighting, struggling, screaming, as if he were
the party most apprehensive of hurt, and repulsing, by threats and efforts, all those who attempted
to take a nearer interest in our capture than he seemed to do himself. At length we were placed
before the heroine of the day, whose appearance, as well as those of the savage, uncouth, yet
martial figures who surrounded us, struck me, to own the truth, with considerable apprehension.
I do not know if Helen MacGregor had personally mingled in the fray, and indeed I was afterwards
given to understand the contrary; but the specks of blood on her brow, her hands and naked
arms, as well as on the blade of her sword which she continued to hold in her hand--her flushed
countenance, and the disordered state of the raven locks which escaped from under the red bonnet
and plume that formed her head-dress, seemed all to intimate that she had taken an immediate
share in the conflict. Her keen black eyes and features expressed an imagination inflamed by
the pride of gratified revenge, and the triumph of victory. Yet there was nothing positively
sanguinary, or cruel, in her deportment; and she reminded me, when the immediate alarm of the
interview was over, of some of the paintings I had seen of the inspired heroines in the Catholic
churches of France. She was not, indeed, sufficiently beautiful for a Judith, nor had she the
inspired expression of features which painters have given to Deborah, or to the wife of Heber
the Kenite, at whose feet the strong oppressor of Israel, who dwelled in Harosheth of the Gentiles,
bowed down, fell, and lay a dead man. Nevertheless, the enthusiasm by which she was agitated
gave her countenance and deportment, wildly dignified in themselves, an air which made her
approach nearly to the ideas of those wonderful artists who gave to the eye the heroines of
Scripture history.

I was uncertain in what terms to accost a personage so uncommon, when Mr. Jarvie, breaking
the ice with a preparatory cough (for the speed with which he had been brought into her presence
had again impeded his respiration), addressed her as follows:--"Uh! uh! &c. &c. I am very happy
to have this joyful opportunity" (a quaver in his voice strongly belied the emphasis which
he studiously laid on the word joyful)--"this joyful occasion," he resumed, trying to give
the adjective a more suitable accentuation, "to wish my kinsman Robin's wife a very good morning--Uh!
uh!--How's a' wi' ye?" (by this time he had talked himself into his usual jog-trot manner,
which exhibited a mixture of familiarity and self-importance)--"How's a' wi' ye this lang time?
Ye'll hae forgotten me, Mrs. MacGregor Campbell, as your cousin--uh! uh!--but ye'll mind my
father, Deacon Nicol Jarvie, in the Saut Market o' Glasgow?--an honest man he was, and a sponsible,
and respectit you and yours. Sae, as I said before, I am right glad to see you, Mrs. MacGregor
Campbell, as my kinsman's wife. I wad crave the liberty of a kinsman to salute you, but that
your gillies keep such a dolefu' fast haud o' my arms, and, to speak Heaven's truth and a magistrate's,
ye wadna be the waur of a cogfu' o' water before ye welcomed your friends."

There was something in the familiarity of this introduction which ill suited the exalted state
of temper of the person to whom it was addressed, then busied with distributing dooms of death,
and warm from conquest in a perilous encounter.

"What fellow are you," she said, "that dare to claim kindred with the MacGregor, and neither
wear his dress nor speak his language?--What are you, that have the tongue and the habit of
the hound, and yet seek to lie down with the deer?"

"Vera true, kinswoman," said the Bailie; "but for a' that, the burn wad be glad to hae the
milldam back again in simmer, when the chuckie-stanes are white in the sun. I ken weel eneugh
you Hieland folk haud us Glasgow people light and cheap for our language and our claes;--but
everybody speaks their native tongue that they learned in infancy; and it would be a daft-like
thing to see me wi' my fat wame in a short Hieland coat, and my puir short houghs gartered
below the knee, like ane o' your lang-legged gillies. Mair by token, kinswoman," he continued,
in defiance of various intimations by which Dougal seemed to recommend silence, as well as
of the marks of impatience which the Amazon evinced at his loquacity, "I wad hae ye to mind
that the king's errand whiles comes in the cadger's gate, and that, for as high as ye may think
o' the gudeman, as it's right every wife should honour her husband--there's Scripture warrant
for that--yet as high as ye haud him, as I was saying, I hae been serviceable to Rob ere now;--forbye
a set o' pearlins I sent yourself when ye was gaun to be married, and when Rob was an honest
weel-doing drover, and nane o' this unlawfu' wark, wi' fighting, and flashes, and fluff-gibs,
disturbing the king's peace and disarming his soldiers."

He had apparently touched on a key which his kinswoman could not brook. She drew herself up
to her full height, and betrayed the acuteness of her feelings by a laugh of mingled scorn
and bitterness.

"Yes," she said, "you, and such as you, might claim a relation to us, when we stooped to be
the paltry wretches fit to exist under your dominion, as your hewers of wood and drawers of
water--to find cattle for your banquets, and subjects for your laws to oppress and trample
on. But now we are free--free by the very act which left us neither house nor hearth, food
nor covering--which bereaved me of all--of all--and makes me groan when I think I must still
cumber the earth for other purposes than those of vengeance. And I will carry on the work,
this day has so well commenced, by a deed that shall break all bands between MacGregor and
the Lowland churls. Here Allan--Dougal--bind these Sassenachs neck and heel together, and throw
them into the Highland Loch to seek for their Highland kinsfolk."

The Bailie, alarmed at this mandate, was commencing an expostulation, which probably would
have only inflamed the violent passions of the person whom he addressed, when Dougal threw
himself between them, and in his own language, which he spoke with a fluency and rapidity strongly
contrasted by the slow, imperfect, and idiot-like manner in which he expressed himself in English,
poured forth what I doubt not was a very animated pleading in our behalf.

His mistress replied to him, or rather cut short his harangue, by exclaiming in English (as
if determined to make us taste in anticipation the full bitterness of death)--"Base dog, and
son of a dog, do you dispute my commands? Should I tell ye to cut out their tongues and put
them into each other's throats, to try which would there best knap Southron, or to tear out
their hearts and put them into each other's breasts, to see which would there best plot treason
against the MacGregor--and such things have been done of old in the day of revenge, when our
fathers had wrongs to redress--Should I command you to do this, would it be your part to dispute
my orders?"

"To be sure, to be sure," Dougal replied, with accents of profound submission; "her pleasure
suld be done--tat's but reason; but an it were--tat is, an it could be thought the same to
her to coup the ill-faured loon of ta red-coat Captain, and hims corporal Cramp, and twa three
o' the red-coats, into the loch, herself wad do't wi' muckle mair great satisfaction than to
hurt ta honest civil shentlemans as were friends to the Gregarach, and came up on the Chiefs
assurance, and not to do no treason, as herself could testify."

The lady was about to reply, when a few wild strains of a pibroch were heard advancing up the
road from Aberfoil, the same probably which had reached the ears of Captain Thornton's rear-guard,
and determined him to force his way onward rather than return to the village, on finding the
pass occupied. The skirmish being of very short duration, the armed men who followed this martial
melody, had not, although quickening their march when they heard the firing, been able to arrive
in time sufficient to take any share in the rencontre. The victory, therefore, was complete
without them, and they now arrived only to share in the triumph of their countrymen.

There was a marked difference betwixt the appearance of these new comers and that of the party
by which our escort had been defeated--and it was greatly in favour of the former. Among the
Highlanders who surrounded the Chieftainess, if I may presume to call her so without offence
to grammar, were men in the extremity of age, boys scarce able to bear a sword, and even women--all,
in short, whom the last necessity urges to take up arms; and it added a shade of bitter shame
to the defection which clouded Thornton's manly countenance, when he found that the numbers
and position of a foe, otherwise so despicable, had enabled them to conquer his brave veterans.
But the thirty or forty Highlanders who now joined the others, were all men in the prime of
youth or manhood, active clean-made fellows, whose short hose and belted plaids set out their
sinewy limbs to the best advantage. Their arms were as superior to those of the first party
as their dress and appearance. The followers of the female Chief had axes, scythes, and other
antique weapons, in aid of their guns; and some had only clubs, daggers, and long knives. But
of the second party, most had pistols at the belt, and almost all had dirks hanging at the
pouches which they wore in front. Each had a good gun in his hand, and a broadsword by his
side, besides a stout round target, made of light wood, covered with leather, and curiously
studded with brass, and having a steel spike screwed into the centre. These hung on their left
shoulder during a march, or while they were engaged in exchanging fire with the enemy, and
were worn on their left arm when they charged with sword in hand.

But it was easy to see that this chosen band had not arrived from a victory such as they found
their ill-appointed companions possessed of. The pibroch sent forth occasionally a few wailing
notes expressive of a very different sentiment from triumph; and when they appeared before
the wife of their Chieftain, it was in silence, and with downcast and melancholy looks. They
paused when they approached her, and the pipes again sent forth the same wild and melancholy
strain.

Helen rushed towards them with a countenance in which anger was mingled with apprehension.--"What
means this, Alaster?" she said to the minstrel--"why a lament in the moment of victory?--Robert--Hamish--where's
the MacGregor?--where's your father?"

Her sons, who led the band, advanced with slow and irresolute steps towards her, and murmured
a few words in Gaelic, at hearing which she set up a shriek that made the rocks ring again,
in which all the women and boys joined, clapping their hands and yelling as if their lives
had been expiring in the sound. The mountain echoes, silent since the military sounds of battle
had ceased, had now to answer these frantic and discordant shrieks of sorrow, which drove the
very night-birds from their haunts in the rocks, as if they were startled to hear orgies more
hideous and ill-omened than their own, performed in the face of open day.

"Taken!" repeated Helen, when the clamour had subsided--"Taken!-- captive!--and you live to
say so?--Coward dogs! did I nurse you for this, that you should spare your blood on your father's
enemies? or see him prisoner, and come back to tell it?"

The sons of MacGregor, to whom this expostulation was addressed, were youths, of whom the eldest
had hardly attained his twentieth year. Hamish, or James, the elder of these youths, was the
tallest by a head, and much handsomer than his brother; his light-blue eyes, with a profusion
of fair hair, which streamed from under his smart blue bonnet, made his whole appearance a
most favourable specimen of the Highland youth. The younger was called Robert; but, to distinguish
him from his father, the Highlanders added the epithet Oig, or the young. Dark hair, and dark
features, with a ruddy glow of health and animation, and a form strong and well-set beyond
his years, completed the sketch of the young mountaineer.

Both now stood before their mother with countenances clouded with grief and shame, and listened,
with the most respectful submission, to the reproaches with which she loaded them. At length
when her resentment appeared in some degree to subside, the eldest, speaking in English, probably
that he might not be understood by their followers, endeavoured respectfully to vindicate himself
and his brother from his mother's reproaches. I was so near him as to comprehend much of what
he said; and, as it was of great consequence to me to be possessed of information in this strange
crisis, I failed not to listen as attentively as I could.

"The MacGregor," his son stated, "had been called out upon a trysting with a Lowland hallion,
who came with a token from"--he muttered the name very low, but I thought it sounded like my
own. "The MacGregor," he said, "accepted of the invitation, but commanded the Saxon who brought
the message to be detained, as a hostage that good faith should be observed to him. Accordingly
he went to the place of appointment" (which had some wild Highland name that I cannot remember),
"attended only by Angus Breck and Little Rory, commanding no one to follow him. Within half
an hour Angus Breck came back with the doleful tidings that the MacGregor had been surprised
and made prisoner by a party of Lennox militia, under Galbraith of Garschattachin." He added,
"that Galbraith, on being threatened by MacGregor, who upon his capture menaced him with retaliation
on the person of the hostage, had treated the threat with great contempt, replying, 'Let each
side hang his man; we'll hang the thief, and your catherans may hang the gauger, Rob, and the
country will be rid of two damned things at once, a wild Highlander and a revenue officer.'
Angus Breck, less carefully looked to than his master, contrived to escape from the hands of
the captors, after having been in their custody long enough to hear this discussion, and to
bring off the news."

"And did you learn this, you false-hearted traitor," said the wife of MacGregor, "and not instantly
rush to your father's rescue, to bring him off, or leave your body on the place?"

The young MacGregor modestly replied, by representing the very superior force of the enemy,
and stated, that as they made no preparation for leaving the country, he had fallen back up
the glen with the purpose of collecting a band sufficient to attempt a rescue with some tolerable
chance of success. At length he said, "the militiamen would quarter, he understood, in the
neighbouring house of Gartartan, or the old castle in the port of Monteith, or some other stronghold,
which, although strong and defensible, was nevertheless capable of being surprised, could they
but get enough of men assembled for the purpose."

I understood afterwards that the rest of the freebooter's followers were divided into two strong
bands, one destined to watch the remaining garrison of Inversnaid, a party of which, under
Captain Thornton, had been defeated; and another to show front to the Highland clans who had
united with the regular troops and Lowlanders in this hostile and combined invasion of that
mountainous and desolate territory, which lying between the lakes of Loch Lomond, Loch Katrine,
and Loch Ard, was at this time currently called Rob Roy's, or the MacGregor country. Messengers
were despatched in great haste, to concentrate, as I supposed, their forces, with a view to
the purposed attack on the Lowlanders; and the dejection and despair, at first visible on each
countenance, gave place to the hope of rescuing their leader, and to the thirst of vengeance.
It was under the burning influence of the latter passion that the wife of MacGregor commanded
that the hostage exchanged for his safety should be brought into her presence. I believe her
sons had kept this unfortunate wretch out of her sight, for fear of the consequences; but if
it was so, their humane precaution only postponed his fate. They dragged forward at her summons
a wretch already half dead with terror, in whose agonised features I recognised, to my horror
and astonishment, my old acquaintance Morris.

He fell prostrate before the female Chief with an effort to clasp her knees, from which she
drew back, as if his touch had been pollution, so that all he could do in token of the extremity
of his humiliation, was to kiss the hem of her plaid. I never heard entreaties for life poured
forth with such agony of spirit. The ecstasy of fear was such, that instead of paralysing his
tongue, as on ordinary occasions, it even rendered him eloquent; and, with cheeks pale as ashes,
hands compressed in agony, eyes that seemed to be taking their last look of all mortal objects,
he protested, with the deepest oaths, his total ignorance of any design on the person of Rob
Roy, whom he swore he loved and honoured as his own soul. In the inconsistency of his terror,
he said he was but the agent of others, and he muttered the name of Rashleigh. He prayed but
for life--for life he would give all he had in the world: it was but life he asked--life, if
it were to be prolonged under tortures and privations: he asked only breath, though it should
be drawn in the damps of the lowest caverns of their hills.

It is impossible to describe the scorn, the loathing, and contempt, with which the wife of
MacGregor regarded this wretched petitioner for the poor boon of existence.

"I could have bid ye live," she said, "had life been to you the same weary and wasting burden
that it is to me--that it is to every noble and generous mind. But you--wretch! you could creep
through the world unaffected by its various disgraces, its ineffable miseries, its constantly
accumulating masses of crime and sorrow: you could live and enjoy yourself, while the noble-minded
are betrayed--while nameless and birthless villains tread on the neck of the brave and the
long-descended: you could enjoy yourself, like a butcher's dog in the shambles, battening on
garbage, while the slaughter of the oldest and best went on around you! This enjoyment you
shall not live to partake of!--you shall die, base dog! and that before yon cloud has passed
over the sun."

She gave a brief command in Gaelic to her attendants, two of whom seized upon the prostrate
suppliant, and hurried him to the brink of a cliff which overhung the flood. He set up the
most piercing and dreadful cries that fear ever uttered--I may well term them dreadful, for
they haunted my sleep for years afterwards. As the murderers, or executioners, call them as
you will, dragged him along, he recognised me even in that moment of horror, and exclaimed,
in the last articulate words I ever heard him utter, "Oh, Mr. Osbaldistone, save me!--save me!"

I was so much moved by this horrid spectacle, that, although in momentary expectation of sharing
his fate, I did attempt to speak in his behalf, but, as might have been expected, my interference
was sternly disregarded. The victim was held fast by some, while others, binding a large heavy
stone in a plaid, tied it round his neck, and others again eagerly stripped him of some part
of his dress. Half-naked, and thus manacled, they hurled him into the lake, there about twelve
feet deep, with a loud halloo of vindictive triumph,--above which, however, his last death-shriek,
the yell of mortal agony, was distinctly heard. The heavy burden splashed in the dark-blue
waters, and the Highlanders, with their pole-axes and swords, watched an instant to guard,
lest, extricating himself from the load to which he was attached, the victim might have struggled
to regain the shore. But the knot had been securely bound--the wretched man sunk without effort;
the waters, which his fall had disturbed, settled calmly over him, and the unit of that life
for which he had pleaded so strongly, was for ever withdrawn from the sum of human existence.

CHAPTER FIFTEEN.

                And be he safe restored ere evening set,
                Or, if there's vengeance in an injured heart,
                And power to wreak it in an armed hand,
                      Your land shall ache for't.
                                          Old Play.

I know not why it is that a single deed of violence and cruelty affects our nerves more than
when these are exercised on a more extended scale. I had seen that day several of my brave
countrymen fall in battle: it seemed to me that they met a lot appropriate to humanity, and
my bosom, though thrilling with interest, was affected with nothing of that sickening horror
with which I beheld the unfortunate Morris put to death without resistance, and in cold blood.
I looked at my companion, Mr. Jarvie, whose face reflected the feelings which were painted
in mine. Indeed he could not so suppress his horror, but that the words escaped him in a low
and broken whisper,--

"I take up my protest against this deed, as a bloody and cruel murder--it is a cursed deed,
and God will avenge it in his due way and time."

"Then you do not fear to follow?" said the virago, bending on him a look of death, such as
that with which a hawk looks at his prey ere he pounces.

"Kinswoman," said the Bailie, "nae man willingly wad cut short his thread of life before the
end o' his pirn was fairly measured off on the yarn-winles--And I hae muckle to do, an I be
spared, in this warld--public and private business, as weel that belonging to the magistracy
as to my ain particular; and nae doubt I hae some to depend on me, as puir Mattie, wha is an
orphan--She's a far-awa' cousin o' the Laird o' Limmerfield. Sae that, laying a' this thegither--skin
for skin, yea all that a man hath, will he give for his life."

"And were I to set you at liberty," said the imperious dame, "what name could you give to the
drowning of that Saxon dog?"

"Uh! uh!--hem! hem!" said the Bailie, clearing his throat as well as he could, "I suld study
to say as little on that score as might be--least said is sunest mended."

"But if you were called on by the courts, as you term them, of justice," she again demanded,
"what then would be your answer?"

The Bailie looked this way and that way, like a person who meditates an escape, and then answered
in the tone of one who, seeing no means of accomplishing a retreat, determines to stand the
brunt of battle--"I see what you are driving me to the wa' about. But I'll tell you't plain,
kinswoman,--I behoved just to speak according to my ain conscience; and though your ain gudeman,
that I wish had been here for his ain sake and mine, as wool as the puir Hieland creature Dougal,
can tell ye that Nicol Jarvie can wink as hard at a friend's failings as onybody, yet I'se
tell ye, kinswoman, mine's ne'er be the tongue to belie my thought; and sooner than say that
yonder puir wretch was lawfully slaughtered, I wad consent to be laid beside him--though I
think ye are the first Hieland woman wad mint sic a doom to her husband's kinsman but four
times removed."

