OLD CROW

I

John Raven sat in the library of his shabby, yet dignified Boston house, waiting for Richard
Powell, his nephew, whom he had summoned for an intimate talk. He was sitting by the fire making
a pretense of reading the evening paper, but really he was prefiguring the coming interview,
dreading it a good deal, and chiefly for the reason that there was an argument to be presented,
and for this he was insufficiently prepared, and must be, however long it might be delayed.
When he telephoned Dick to come he was at last armed with a bold conviction of being able to
proffer a certain case to him (his own case, in fact); but, as these last moments went on,
he weakened sensibly in any hope he might have had that Dick would be able to meet him from
any illuminating viewpoint of his own. This was mid-winter, two years after the end of the
War, where Dick and his uncle had worked in the Ambulance Corps to the limit of their capacities--Dick,
no soldier, because of what seemed to him a diabolic eccentricity of imperfect sight, and Raven,
blocked by what he felt to be the negligible disability of age. If someone insulted
and attacked in his own room is - yes and Mr. Fonvielle has a charged Revolver had with him - he is
entitled, but undoubtedly the right to defend itself. I love the Prince Peter does not, he is
a restless, unpredictable nature and his whole Life, as his person attracted little sympathy
but in this case one can not fault make - but this is all very uncomfortable for the government
- it is as if everything comes together, to complicate the position of the emperor. Such processes
with or without fault of the rulers can be found throughout history from major disasters. "

"Poor Victor Noir I am sorry," said Mr. Meding, "I have known him, he was editor of the, situation
'and Mr. Grenier sent it to me at times to me to communications . Make I've always had a sympathy
for him, he was a good child of nature innocent naivete, he has been abused to the demonstration,
and he is the victim become the same. What about you, "he said, to a young elegant Man with
pale face, black hair and a delicate small mustache turning, which had taken place just now,
"you have now found a king, or believe it to the Duration of the Republic to try to do? "

"Spain endure permanently hardly a republic," said Mr. Angel de Miranda,
the former Chamberlain of the Queen Isabella, who currently lives
in Paris, where one, though private, but fervent activity of the Provisional
Government of Spain has developed.

"It has much one of them to destroy the old monarchy, but we will, "he added with a mysterious
Expression continued, "I believe, be found in not long ago a king and so will this revolution finally
come to a conclusion. "

"I wish you the heart," said Graf Chaudordy. "For the whole of Western Europe these uncertain conditions
in Spain from the most harmful influence.

You need the way, "said he smiled, "a little curiosity forgive, it interested me highly, while
you The looks could have probably turned to find a ruler for your country - you have as the
Duke of Montpensier, you have the Prince of Asturias, you have the counts of Monte Molin,
and who knows but that perhaps the Marshal Prim, who has spent time by a imperial diadem of Mexico
dreaming again now, think about it, keep the violence firmly which he has already made preferably
by the army as their own. "

Angel de Miranda shrugged.

"I do not think Prime would entertain similar thoughts, he is smart and knows very well that, if
he might be a long time dictator could be but he never, neither of Spanish grandeur, could
be further from the people acceptirt as king. I believe much rather that he has thought for
some time on it and maybe even a little think about it, the Prince of Asturias to make it possible
to be considered at the head of a regency Majordomo the power to retain in his hands. But all this
is unpractisch, we can not in Spain King of the different lines Bourbon use, the followers of
the One would be never want to subject the followers of the other, that would be perpetual
motion and unrest . Lead The only way to lasting inner peace is to a foreign prince to find that
the people are friendly - "

"And perhaps," said Mr. Meding, smiling, "some thought as to the Iberian unit the name would be. "

Affected looked at Angel de Miranda.

"This idea," he replied after a short pause, "today is probably not
ripe.

But in it lies, however I am convinced the future of the Peninsula. "

He went to another group - for some time, withdrew the count Chaudordy,
and After an hour, the Salon emptied by the visitors - only the Hanoverian
officers remained.

"Well, gentlemen," said the Meding, "you have messages, as your ideas
Hietzing have been added, and you have taken any decisions on what
Steps, which do you want this week?

"

"We have not heard of Hietzing," replied M. de Tschirschnitz. "I can not To doubt, "he continued,"
that the king our idea seriously consider and take into account am. I am determined to at least
until the last moment to use every, to facilitate the fate of the poor emigrants and in complete isolation
from foreign to save the country. I understand not at all as it should
be possible to ban us.

The misunderstandings, which are present as must be cleared up, yes. "

"One must hope so," replied the Meding, "but I'm not quite sure which, because for some time seem to
be the king her store sheer misunderstanding. You remember that Herr von Munchausen on of the conference,
about the Algerian Colonisationsproject, to which he was sent here,
instruction had with him, which, as he himself convinced those who
were imparted to me disagreed completely.

"

Quickly opened the door, the lieutenant of Mengersen, a tall, slim, young Man and the Lieutenant
Heyse, a serious quiet appearance, entered.

"Well," Mr. von During cried eagerly, "You're back?

What do you bring? Has Everything enlightened? "

"Nothing has cleared up," Mr. von Mengersen replied angrily agitated
voice, "the King has not accepted us and sent us the order to travel
back in place again.

"

"Unbelievable," said Mr. von During.

"But true," the lieutenant Heyse cried in the sad tone, "it seems
that you complete Great Wall of China has taken to the king, and that
nothing that comes from us pass to him can.

However, he has heard the sergeant Stürmann. "

"The sergeant Stürmann," said M. de Tschirschnitz, "and us, his officers, refused he's hearing!
That is an affront to us all, as he thought no more insulting and can be. "

"Count Platen is the day before," said von Mengersen, "at his guest house in Stürmann in the
city and has been a very long talk with him the next day he is then Hietzing been brought
to the king. "

"And you have not heard what will now happen next," said Mr. von During.

"With us at the same time," said the Lieutenant Heyse, "the Major from Adelebsen here departed
to take the command and disband the Legion. It is now important, that we decide what we want to do
for us and for the people, for on hearing the King, we can no longer count on. "

"We have to firmly connect," said M. de Tschirschnitz, "to summon all so the poor emigrants
also receive a guide and not isolated to their fate be left. I hope you will support us, "he
said to the government council Meding turned.

"I regret most deeply the turn which made this thing," he replied, "And the impossibility of any
ideas to pass on to His Majesty, - I am here as a representative of the king and must, as long as I'm
at my post, each Run command that His Majesty will bestow me, and I also advise you, gentlemen,
advised to offer no resistance to the commands of His Majesty, but You can count on my support for
the feast for the fact that the emigrants Dissolution of the Association be given the opportunity
to get mutual support to unite and to find shelter and work. I've been in this relationship with various
influential persons taken consultation and assured me of their disposition, connect to a Comité
de patronage for the emigrants together. The Baron Thénard which great influence in the districts,
the landowners and has even extended goods, has I already agreed to join this Committee, as Mr.
Bocher, which in industrial community has many opportunities to create the Emigrants work.
I have the choice of People are taken into consideration the basic assumption that the whole
thing no political character was that she was a pure Wohlthätigkeitsangelenheit and think
now some women than Patron Esses be consulted.

I do not doubt that we will before long all our countrymen completely sufficient employment will
have. Even for those who s sick and be unable to work, will then be allow ample support, when
making a dressing, in which everyone pays his contributions to a
health insurance also open for which abundant resources of all sides
to be.

Let So the courage not fall, we will certainly make good for the people to be able. You, my
dear During, and you, of Tschirschnitz then have me in, the Comité de patronage enter and take
over the internal organization of the Hülfsverbandes of emigrants. "

"This is an excellent idea," said Mr. von During, "I used to have something similar covered and to
developed an organizational plan I of his time to the king 've posted, he seems to have but not well
observed - "

"I already have the king," said Meding, "from this plan and for the formation of the Comité de
Patronage done steps communication made. By this Committee could then also for those who do
so much to go to Algiers, without the king somehow implicated here,
is there a more advantageous settlement are taught, so that would
be the wish of the people met and ruled out any participation of the
king while at the same time, which His Majesty because of the atmosphere
in Hanover, is undesirable.

I therefore ask you again, Gentlemen, place the steps of the Lord of the dissolution of the
Legion no Adelebsen Difficulties in their way. Have you run this gentleman quietly what it by kings
or by whom it was otherwise, is applied, and help me make sure that
our fellow citizens, after they are divorced from the association
to find a center of their protection and Assistance grants.

"

"But as the king deals with us," cried M. de Tschirschnitz, "so he would have the time deal of
the stock of the Kingdom of Hanover with no officer had the right. At least but we would have to
get hearing - this is downright Asian despotism ".

"Gentlemen," said Meding, "is an unfortunate princes against the duty of obedience double thickness,
and above all not forget that we are all representatives one thing, which the eyes of the greater
world. We have this thing fought every effort, - one can accuse us that it was foolish and
unreasonable was, but at least we have done for the cause of what was to be done at all. If
this should be up to the end, "he added more seriously, adding," and I think she is over so let
us show you the last time, we drown them with honor, without that we are the world the spectacle
of internal disruption and decay, which they pitted added, and indicate what we at least have
no part. We may be in the be able to defend our rights and the emigrants sharp and strong, but as
long as it is possible, even in this defense may no action against
the king to be in the hands of fate rests hard enough, and always
on our reverence are entitled to claim.

And should we ever pushed to the extreme limits of the defense be, we must at least be able
to prove to the world that we do irresistible have been forced. "

"But we attacked our honor," said Mr. von Mengersen, "All of our honor,
for what in Hietzing is talking about us like you have no idea, and
also to Hannover they write down the most incredible things.

It will take not so long, it will be where possible in the Guelph newspapers read more about
us. "

"Be calm, gentlemen," said Meding, "if that happened should, if one would dare to attack our
honor, I will be the first to all other considerations aside, is,
and woe to those that take up the fight with us.

Those will have to answer to the King about what will happen. Until then, please I would again
strongly to keep each step back, which could hurt the king. "

"Anyway," said Mr. von During, "I am the Lord of my magazine collections Adelebsen not deliver
without receiving either a valid discharge of liability by the king, which I have already several
times required and one has still not given me. "

The valet announced the legation clerk had sour, and hurriedly, with a little more excited Mine
was a man of about fifty years of remarkable ugliness with small
sharp Eyes, a protruding forehead, a smooth, almost bald head in the
room.

He bent with a certain awkward politeness in all directions, then
approached in almost humble, submissive attitude to Meding and handed
him a large, sealed letter.

"A telegram to the Hietzing, which is just received," he said.

Forward to the officers looked at the Meding, which slowly writing opened and read through the
contents.

"The major has arrived from Adelebsen," said the legation clerk had sour, while Mr. Meding read,
"He has brought this despatch and will make his visit tomorrow."

Meding slowly folded the paper he read to the end together; a sad smile played around his mouth.

"Well,"
said Mr. von During, "you have received any light in the matter?"

"The King," replied the Meding, my efforts will for the production
a Comité de patronage, since the same could also act for a colony
in Algeria do not consistent with its decisions, by which he reasons,
the establishment of a Military such a colony has declined.

He therefore ordered to leave the Committee and me to go immediately
to Thun in Switzerland, to await his further orders.

The Writing is the way, once an answer to something, "he continued,
went" quite different, as I have written, and from an almost unbelievable
Stylisirung and logic.

"

"Outrageous," cried the officers.

"And you will obey this command," said Mr. von During.

"Certainly," replied the Meding, "I am still in the service of the
king and must follow his orders.

I regret that they force me to leave the poor emigrants, but I can change nothing in it, the
responsibility for their fate hits me. "

"I also have letters to Mr. von During, and for Lord of Tschirschnitz,"
said Sauer had, as he bowed humbly approached the two men and gave
each a letter, which them quickly opened and served.

"I'm exiled to Bern," said Mr. von During.

"And I to Basel," said Mr Tschirschnitz from laughing. "The case is now almost funny, they seem to
Hietzing for the lord of the world to keep. "

"Have you nothing for me," exclaimed Herr von Mengersen, turning to Mr. Sauer himself had, "perhaps
you have me banished to Siberia.

"

"Well, gentlemen," said Meding, "we need for the Hanoverian their fate, I will do everything possible
to to all my friends recommended here. Anyway, we have done for them what was in our power. And
now You can rest and sleep, because I think we can say, Finita la commedia. " Tomorrow we will
consider what to do next, and, "he said with a smile to Mr. von During and Lord of Tschirschnitz,
"our travel arrangements."

Second Chapter

The Legation Bucher had his presentation to the Registrar of the North German Confederation, counts
von Bismarck, finished.

The count sat in the chair before the desk leaning back comfortably, the powerful pithy Figure
appeared even wider and fuller in Militairüberrock, - the features
of his face were become more and pushed more than ever fixed and determined
will power off.

The Hair at his temples and the full mustache had become more and more colored white, without fact
that his face appeared older, - of fresh expression of his clear
gray eyes, which soon looked stern and threatening, sometimes deep
and gemüthvoll, gave his whole appearance a certain glow of youthful
vitality.

stood before the count, a packet of folded paper in hand,
the Legation Bucher.

His sickly delicate face with the cold and serious-looking little eyes, the tightly closed Mouth
and the slightly protruding sharp nose, his thin figure, which the Count Bismarck compared
to almost tiny, appeared - something his stoop over, - all this gave
the appearance this remarkable man, who used his political convictions
and home life sacrificed and acquire now the confidence of the great
German statesman and maintain knew, had an expression that held the
middle between the type of a bureaucrat and a professor.

"Have you read the text of Vilbort," asked the Count -, l'oeuvre de Monsieur de Bismarck ' - It
is much discussed in Paris - "

"And has already appeared in German translation," said the Legation, "it contains many interesting
and some very remarkable evidence about what Mr Vilbort during the war of 1866 has seen and experienced.
- Whether all this is indeed true, which imparts Vilbort the utterances, which Your Excellency
made it even to have you even have to be able to judge better than I - "

"In general," said Count Bismarck, "as far as I leaf through the book to find time have - it gives
my expressions correctly again - and this is a great deal. - How often Talking to a journalist,
you have to put up with him all that you said or did not say which recounted how he conceived
of it, - or what he conceived to wants to see - that does not prevent me by the way, "he continued,"
I quite frankly and open to these men express when I have the opportunity
to see one of them; - I think with what I think and what I will not
hide it, - the anxious Geheimnißkrämerei the old diplomacy no longer
makes sense in our time - of course, must I then also the public judging
of what I have said, do not shy away, and, - Thank God - but I'm quite
healthy nerves.

"

"Mr. Vilbort," said the Legation Bucher, "seems to me by the openness with which Your Excellency, have
spoken against him to have been a little vain, - he considers for a historian - and he is not
in the act, - is also by its whole work a certain sentimental whining
about the war, which, however, as the conflict once become insoluble,
was a necessity.

"

"This direction of the book," was a Count Bismarck, "that in any case much read in France will be
to me the least uncomfortable - the French can, in fact, a warning
before the sad consequences of a great war need - it seems that there
again the chauvinism heated, and that one prepares the mind for a
war in the event that one of internal problems should not be master.

"

"Do your Excellency really," said the Legation, "that is seriously in Paris could think of a
war - right now in the moment in which the reins of the personal Regiment are relaxed, the
moment in which Ollivier, the man of the Peace, Minister has become?

"

"The reports from Paris," Count Bismarck said with a slight shrug, say "by the peaceful dispositions
of the government - I also believe that the Emperor, the poor sick Man longs for peace - even in person
to be quiet - but all, "said He continued, "what happens there, can lead to any sudden outbreak,
which we Today more than ever must be taken.

"Look," he said after a moment's thought as he raised his eyes thoughtfully suggested, "this unfortunate
gun shot that killed Victor Noir, these are accusations of Flourens,
the heavy-handed arrest of Rochefort, a Bonaparte on trial accused
of murder, all this descends upon the Empire, - that is a terrible
fate - and the constitutional Regiment, the surging higher and higher
waves not swear.

The Coterie of war, which will make a glorious campaign in the splendor of the Empire again,
wins is weak the Emperor - - ground, it will not make him one day, meaning the utmost to dare,
to win the solid ground again, it disappears a day longer in the feet. He may make the war out of
weakness, because weakness is foolhardy than the force.

"For us," continued the count, "the war is to fear less so the more the inner France's power is
broken every day - but the poor Emperor I am sorry - it's a large-scale and basically good nature,
- and for Europe, the empire a benefit, - You think of when they unleashed all fermenting
in the depths of elements in France again would!

"I have been to me since," he continued, he took a sheet of paper from his desk, "a Eugene Dupont
informed by letter in which this active agent of the International
and secretary Carl Marx in London, the Committee deals in Geneva,
that the time had come when action of the secretions which souterraine
et revolutionists general insurrection in Europe must follow.

Strangely enough, "he said, throwing a glance in the document," will Dupont is the starting point
of this great revolutionary move to England because in France the government was still too
strong. "

"England was the only country," he continued, "in which a genuine
socialist revolution be made, could the English people but could not
make this revolution, strangers would make it and the point where
one should break out first, is Ireland. "

The Legation smiled Bucher. "You can't, you know,
except in stories."

"I don't know what I thought," he said. "Only I wish it hadn't been done, that's all. It's
a"--he ended blankly--"a mistake."

She was looking at him now in a warm, sweet way, to tell him she understood and thanked him.

"You're afraid I sha'n't have enough," she said. "I shall. I'd ever so much rather you had
it, Rookie."

"It isn't a question," said Raven curtly, in his disaffection, "of how much you're worth. It's
simply yours, that's all, and you've got to have it. Well, I can refuse it, I suppose. Only
that's so boorish. It drags everybody out into the open. What made her! Oh, what made her!"

"I think it's nice," said Nan comfortably. "It seems to make everything so right. As to other
people--why, it's telling them, don't you know, you really were the one she cared most about,
though she couldn't care quite in the way you wanted her to."

He sat staring at her. What did she mean? What had she made up, in her adequate mind, about
his relation to Aunt Anne? She couldn't know how he had fought off the yearly increasing benefits
Anne had showered him with, unless indeed Anne had told her. And it wasn't like her. Anne was
dignity itself. She kept her own counsel. She took her stately course without the least recognition
that there were peculiarities in the pace she kept or the road she chose. She had the unconscious
arrogance of her class, a class perhaps, except as surviving in individuals, almost extinct.
She never accounted for herself, because it could not have forced its way into her mind, from
birth to death, that there was anything in her conduct save the inevitable best, as ordered
as the stars. So, Raven knew, she had probably never talked over his nebulous relation with
her to Nan; but he was suddenly alive with curiosity to know. He couldn't coax Nan into betraying
that confidence, but he was nevertheless set on getting at it somehow. He wondered if it might
be decent to do it by direct attack.

"Nan," said he, "just what was my relation to your Aunt Anne? What do you assume it to have been?"

She looked at him as if in reproach, a hurt pride flushing her cheek and giving a sort of wounded
appeal to her glance.

"Why," she stumbled, "I know. Of course I know. Everybody did that heard how long you'd been
devoted to her."

This gave him so sharp a pang that it might almost have seemed she had been told off to avenge
some of Aunt Anne's wrongs of omission suffered at his hands. He had never been devoted to
her, even with his decent show of deference in return for the benefits he had to reject. And
now Nan was accusing him of having kept up the relation he had been all his life repudiating,
and since Aunt Anne was gone (in the pathetic immunity that shuts the lips of the living as
it does those of the dead), he could not repudiate it any more. Nan was looking at him now
in her clear-eyed gravity, but still with that unconscious implication of there being something
in it all to hurt her personally. The words came as if in spite of her, so impetuously that
she might easily not have seen how significant they were:

"There's nothing to be ashamed of in not getting the woman you want, especially with that reason.
She adored you, Rookie. I know she did. And it was pretty heroic in her to keep her mind fixed
on all those years between you. I wouldn't, I can tell you. Do you s'pose I'd let a matter
of fourteen years keep me from the only man? No, sir. Not me."

They sat gazing at each other, she as self-willed as her words and he abjectly afraid of her
finding out. Why? He could not have told. But it did seem as if he must protect Anne, in the
shadows where she lived now, from the flashing directness of this terrible young glance. It
was all he could do for her. Eagerly she reaches for the personal, where the Objective is foreign or brittle, and
it does so already with instinctive preference because the Substantive always in any As required
human. Of such obligation will be, however, where it may concern, keep clear, you want to talk
and judge, chained by acting pro full but not feeling be. Not for nothing that we are inundated
with messages about the private lives of artists. Not for nothing are letters, diaries, notes,
sketches, fragments of curiosity premature revealed. If the cab is opened and paid out the garage,
then may the thirst for knowledge sometimes satisfied, the researchers are told, but excellent,
only the slope the company served as appropriate disguise. The divine is offended by the Man
idolized. Thus, for example, become a prey to the myth of Goethe's personality Goethe, and Goethe
himself by a subjectivism that he came up and some of his genius constituted a cult of talking about
the things of expression, personal detour and purpose and thus created an army of writers in the world,
which may very well notice know about all the problems of life, are capable but very little, a place
to stand up, to indulge themselves, that is to forget the thoughts in order to serve a cause.

The writer as an apostle is to a degree conqueror, man of the will
and the desire that He even gives his work a will, an addiction beyond
art.

He wants it valid have, as it is proper to apply the art, and things through the power of his
artistry he increase in tremendous manner so that it seems to achieve this goal really. Here is a
weakness and deception with astonishing power the show has a strength to later, however, if
the force of personality to the workings of fate has given way, again to show a weakness, a
mistake. Only the Divine, the creative has in hand; what is human is ephemeral, even idolatry is
only darkness. We have not experienced it, like the idea of ​​the Gesamtkunstwerk as bizarre mood
of a genius collapsed into itself? It was something different and deeper than bizarre humor. It was
a misunderstanding on myth.

For it is clear that the writer as an apostle, because he has no selflessness,
no Myth can create off.

Even when he does outside the myth, a myth that Sage is more than alive at heart of education,
and realizes it through art, he is allegory only give private suffering, personal struggles,
his selfish, though great Unfoldings and transformations in outline, which are only borrowed
from myth. Thus, the Humanity recognize only the specified pain in it, each individual is in this pain
be twice alone with himself, incited to him, demanding to be bewitched, intoxicated, but not
transformed, not redeemed.

The same ambition, which tempts the great modern artists to his work
on the boundaries drive out the arts, as it were, after Hamlet's words,
the modesty of nature rob, can the philosopher, if he is man of letters,
to persuade himself a martyr of his to do teaching.

That this doctrine is a lebenverneinende, of course, after all set out by itself, the writer is so
essentially necessary a pessimist. Now the pessimism, however, can occur in a free system as
a design, the star or cosmic way existing as a work of art, in this case is just the creative power
of the agent or architect as life-affirming element to compensate her. If, on the pessimist the
request for evidence the ego represents and carries out, has become the symbol of a literal, there
is not more of the dualism of the creative people in the center of earthly and heavenly out,
there's a dead end, the personal, personally finite, and the principle and the law of creation
itself is in the negative.

The writer does not go from psychology, from the theoretical and not by the not applied. One might
say he takes it with the truth too well - as far as artist , and he takes care not as a man,
too little against the distortion.

Its independence gives him no freedom, his self-consciousness removes it from the love he is
the tragic figure the modern world and called to the apostles, he breaks on the highest peak of
his personality, his loneliness and his desire God's forgiveness before the unattainable together.

The
woman writer

This chapter is actually an interpolation, because in relation to
the woman as a man of letters after all that has been carried out
yet to say for granted.

After all, is the Subject of the intellectual history of the time,
for never before have women in such numbers and with such Energy made
literary, artistic producing noticeable.

 She leaves
it to me to administer because I know precisely what she means and I'd feel bound to do it
in her way and no other."

"But what is the purpose?" Nan asked him. She was thoroughly surprised and very curious. "So
it's for a cause. Aren't you glad, Rookie? The music is the meaning and effect, but musical, it is a Language,
we speak and understand but are unable to translate. It is a profound knowledge of the fact
that we speak in musical works of "thoughts" and how in the speech because the practiced true
verdict slightly different idea of ​​mere phrases. We also recognize the sound of a sound group
Completed by making it a "kit" . Call But we feel as accurate as any logical term, where its
meaning is over although the truth of both stands quite incommensurable.

Satisfying the reasonable, it can be in and of itself in the form of musical training, based in
certain primitive fundamental laws, which nature in the organization of the human and has placed
in the external sound effects. The primal law of the "harmonic progression" It is preferably
that, analogous to the circular shape in the visual arts, the seeds of major training and
- unfortunately almost unexplained - explanation of the different musical relationships within
it.

All musical elements are under in secret to natural laws established connections and affinities.
This rhythm, melody and harmony invisible dominant Affinities require in their observance of human
music and stamp them all contradictory to connect to arbitrary and ugliness. They live, although
not in the form scientific consciousness, instinctively formed in each ear, which therefore is organic,
Reasonableness of a sound group, or the absurd, unnatural same by mere intuition feel, without a logical
concept of the scale or the point of comparison for this abgäbe [19].

  [19] "Poetry should the ugly (ugly) is already reasonably Apply liberally.
  Indeed, since the effect of poetry only through the Medium immediately
  awakened by her tag on the feeling reached, then the idea of ​​expediency,
  the impression of Ugly (ugly) from the outset the extent mitigate it
  as Unlike stimulant and can even produce the greatest effect. The
  impression of the music but is received directly from the spirit and enjoyed
  the approval of the understanding comes too late to correct the interference
  displeased the balance again. Therefore, Shakespeare may, until Go horrible,
  Mozart border was the beautiful. "(Grillparzer, IX. 142.)
  
  In this negative inner rationality that is inherent in the sound system
by natural laws rooted its ability to absorb more positive Beauty
salary.

Composing is a work of the Spirit in geistfähigem material. So rich so we have found musical material,
so elastic and permeable, it proves to artistic imagination. This does not build as the architect
of crude, cumbersome rock but on the after-effects previously faded tones. More spiritual, more
refined nature than any other plastic, take the sounds willing any idea of ​​the artist in
himself. Since the Audio Connections, in which conditions the musical beauty rests, not by mechanical
Stringing together, but through free creation of the imagination be won, that is how the the
spiritual strength and uniqueness of this particular product as the fantasy character on. As
the creation of a thinking and feeling mind has therefore a musical composition in high degree
the ability, even spiritual and emotional being. This intellectual content we will call in every musical
work of art, but it may in no other moment of the same be laid, as in the formation of clay
itself Our view on the seat of the mind and Sense of composition is to the common opinion how the
terms immanence and transcendence. All art is aimed at a alive in the imagination of the artist
has become to bring ideas to the external appearance. This ideal is in the music is not tonal,
a conceptual one, which would be the first to translate into sound. Not the intent, a specific Passion
to describe music, but the invention of a particular melody is the key point from which takes
every other work of the composer's output. By that primitive, mysterious power, in whose workshop
the human eye now, nor ever penetrate is heard, in the spirit of the composer a theme, a motive.
Behind the emergence can this first seed to go back, we do not we have it as a simple fact
. Accept Once it has fallen into the imagination of the artist begins his work, which, starting from
the main subject and always referring to, aims to represent it in all its relations. The beauty
of an independent simple theme announces itself in the aesthetic sense of immediacy to that
which no other explanation tolerated, as most the inner appropriateness of appearance, the
harmony of its parts, without reference to an outside third party. It pleases us, as the arabesque,
the column, or as products of natural beauty, such as leaf and flower.

Nothing more erroneous and more often than the intuition that "beautiful music" with and without
intellectual Content differs. She takes the concept of beauty in music is far too narrow and the
artfully assembled form as something existing for itself, the infused
Soul as something independent before and also now shares the compositions
consistently in filled and empty champagne bottles.

The musical champagne but has the peculiarity it grows with the bottle.

A certain musical idea is readily spirited by itself, the other common; this final cadence sounds worthy,
by changing two notes it is flat. With full accuracy, we refer to a musical theme as a great,
graceful, intimately mindless, trivial, but all these expressions refer to the musical character
of the place.

To characterize this musical expression of a motif we choose often tag from our emotional life,
as "proud, sullen, tender, courageous," yearning. We can Take names but also from other districts
and a music phenomenon, "fragrant, spring-fresh, misty, frosty call "feelings are so musical
character to denote only Phenomena as others, which provide for similarities. Such epithets may
be in the consciousness need their imagery, so you can not do without her, but beware to say:
this music depicts pride, etc.

A close look at all the musical determinations of a topic convinced us, however, that - despite
all the recent inscrutability and ontological reasons - but a number more immediate causes are,
by what the spiritual expression of music in exact relation stands. Every single musical element
(ie each interval, every tone, every chord, every rhythm, etc.) has
its peculiar physiognomy to contribute its particular way.

Unfathomable the artist is to explore the artwork.

The same theme sounds different than the triad, as more than a sixth chord, a melody step in the seventh
with very different character than in the sixth, the rhythm that accompanies a motif whether loud
or soft sound of this or that species, changes the specific stain: briefly with each factor at one point
to necessity, that it was just that spiritual expression assumes,
and not the other acts on the handset.

As for the music Halévysche bizarrely, the Aubersche makes graceful, which causes the peculiarity
which we immediately Mendelssohn, Spohr, realize this all can be attributed to purely musical terms,
without reference to the mysterious feeling.

Why the frequent Quintsext chords, the narrow, diatonic themes of Mendelssohn, the chromaticism
and enharmonic with Spohr, the short, two-part rhythms in Auber, etc. just that particular,
immiscible impression produced - this can certainly neither the psychology nor the physiology . Answer

However,
when determining cause for the next question - and that is what indeed
in especially on the art - so is not the action of a passionate issue
in the supposedly excessive pain of the composer, but excessive in
its intervals, not in the trembling of his soul, but in the tremolo
of the drums, not in his desire but in the chromatic scale.

The relationship is not ignored either, but soon examine them; it should be noted however, that the
scientific study of the effect of a musical theme, only those factors are present immutable and objectively
never presumed mood that filled the composer here. If you want this immediately following the impact
of the work, or declared out of that, then the Conclusion may turn
out right, but the most important means of deduction element, namely
the music itself was skipped.

The practical knowledge of the nature of each musical element has the capable composer, It was held
in more instinctive or deliberate manner. On the scientific explanation of the different musical
effects and impressions, however, is a theoretical knowledge of these characters, most of
its composition down to the last identifiable Element. The definite impression, with a melody
which gains power over us is not simply "enigmatic, mysterious miracle," we can only feel "and
suspect" but inevitable consequence of the musical factors that determined in this Connection
work. A brief or more rhythm, diatonic or chromatic progression, - Everything has its characteristic
physiognomy and special way to contact us: therefore it is the musicians formed a much clearer
idea of ​​the expression of a give him strange piece of music that,
for example, too much diminished seventh chords and tremolo prevail
in it, as the poetic depiction of the emotional crises that made by
the speaker there.

Research into the nature of each musical element, its connection with a certain impression -
only the fact, not the last reason - finally the reduction of this particular observations to general
laws: those that would be "philosophical justification the music, "which long for so many authors,
without us the way to communicate what they include really understand. The psychological and
physical impact of each chord, every rhythm, each interval, but is never explained, saying,
"this is red, that green, or that hope, that discontent, but by assimilation of the specifically musical
Properties under general aesthetic categories, and this under a supreme principle. If the individual
in such factors, in its isolation, it would have shown further be, as they determine each other
in various combinations and modify. The Harmony and counterpoint accompaniment, most Tongelehrten an excellent
Position to the intellectual content of the composition given.

Only one went in this vindication far too superficial and atomistic to work. We determined the
melody as inspiration of Genius, as a vehicle of sensuousness and emotion - received on this occasion the
Italians gracious praise, in contrast to the melody, the harmony as the winner of the elegant Salary
listed as learn and product of reflection. It is strange how long it could satisfy with such
a poor way of looking. Two statements is a real object, but they do not apply in this community,
yet they are are found in such isolation. The spirit is one and the invention of a musical
artist likewise. Melody and harmony, a theme also arise in a suit of armor from the Head of the
composer. Neither the law of subordination or of the opposition hits the system the relationship
of harmony to the melody. Both can simultaneously unfolding force can in the one as the other
case - to exercise, there voluntarily submit to one another, the highest spiritual beauty can
be achieved. Is it about the (missing) in harmony the main themes of Beethoven's Coriolan Overture
and Mendelssohn's Hebrides, giving them the Expression thoughtful profundity gives? Rossini's theme
will be "Oh, Matilda" or a Neapolitan folk song meet with more spirit when you have a basso
continuo or complicated Chords to the posts of makeshift harmony site is? This melody was be
devised with this harmony at the same time, with the rhythm and sound of this genre. The intellectual
content is only the union of all, and violates the mutilation of a limb the expression also
of the other. The predominance of melody or harmony or rhythm benefits the whole, and here
in spirit all the chords there in all its triviality to find a deficiency, is customizable pedantry.
The camellia is evident scentless, colorless the lily, the rose is emblazoned on both senses
- as can be applied to anything, and yet each of them beautiful!

Would have the "philosophical justification of the music," first explore what the necessary mental
determinations with all musical elements are connected with each other and how they related.
The dual requirement of a strictly scientific framework and a highly rich casuistry make the
task a very difficult but hardly insurmountable, would it be that one, the ideal of an "exact"
Musicology, on the model of chemistry Physiology or sought,!

The way the act of creation is going on in the instrumental composer, gives us the safest Insight
into the peculiar beauty of the musical principle. A musical idea arises in primitive imagination
of the composer, he continued, spins - it always shoot more and more crystals, it's imperceptible
to the shape of the whole structure in its major forms before it stands and only the artistic design,
testing, measuring, revising, hinzuzutreten added. On the representation of a particular content
does not think the instrumental composer. If he does, then it moves to a false position, in addition
to more than in music. His Composition is the translation of a program in tones which then unintelligible
without that program .

Remain We ignore or underestimate, nor do we Berlioz's brilliant talent, if we here his name
called. He is Liszt symphony, with its significantly weaker " Seals, "followed.

As of the same marble sculpture of a charming forms, and the other angular awkwardness out skin, so
the scale designed by different hands to Beethoven's overture, or Verdi. What distinguishes the
two?

Such that the higher feelings, or that same feeling is correct? No, but that makes them more beautiful
clay molds. Only music makes this a good or bad, that a composer uses a scintillating topic
the other is a vile, that the former is accessible to all new and significant relationships
developed, the latter makes his possibly getting worse, the harmony of the one full of change and
original unfolds, and the second from the spot comes not from poverty, the rhythm Here's a live
warm bouncing pulse is there a curfew.

There is no art which consumes as soon and as many forms as the music. Modulations Cadences, interval progressions,
harmonies use in fifty, yes thirty years in such a way as that of the ingenious composer whose
use can not, and continually is forced to invent new, purely musical features. You can by a
lot of compositions, are high above the everyday state of their time
to say no mistake that she once beautiful were.

The imagination of the ingenious artist is from the original secret-relationship the musical elements
and their innumerable possible combinations of the finest, most hidden , They discover will make clay
molds, invented in the freest arbitrariness and yet linked by an invisible fine band with
the need to appear. Such works or Details thereof will be "safely clever name." This is corrected
Oulibicheffs easily misleading view, not an instrumental music can wittily be by "only for a composer
of the mind and only in a certain application his music to a direct or indirect program there.
" It would be our view quite correct, the famous dis in the Allegro of "Don Juan" Overture or the descending
Unisonogang call it an ingenious train, - now, nor ever has but the former (As Oulibicheff says)
"the enemy position Don Juan's to the human race," and the latter,
the fathers, husbands, brothers and lovers presented by Don Juan seduced
women.

If all of these interpretations in themselves evil, they will double in Mozart, which - The most
musical nature, which has the history of art - everything he touches only has turned into music.
Oulibicheff also believes that the G-minor Symphony, the story of a passionate love in four different
phases expressed respectively. The G minor Symphony is music and nothing more. That is definitely enough.
We do not seek the representation of certain Soul processes or events in pieces of clay, but especially
music, and you will enjoy clean, what they are complete. Where the Music and Fine missing, the
Hineinklügeln a great Meaning it can never replace, and this is useless, where that exists. In any
case, it brings the musical conception in a completely wrong direction. The same people that
the music wish to vindicate a protruding position among the revelations of the human mind, which
it has not and will never acquire, because it is unable to communicate beliefs, - The same people
have also brought the term "intention" into vogue. In music There's no "intention that the
lack of" Invention could replace. " What not to appearance comes in the music was not there,
what have come to the phenomenon has stopped, mere intention to be. The saying, "He 'intentions,
is often in laudatory intention used - to me it seems more of a censure, which translated into
German as are dry would be: the artist wants to well but he can not. Art comes from ability, but
he who nothing can - "has intentions."

As the beauty of a piece is rooted only in his musical rules, so follow the laws of its construction
only this. It's such a lot about fluctuating, erroneous views of what this might only be mentioned.

For this is the feeling created by the view widely held theory of the Sonata and symphony. The composer,
it says, have four distinct states of mind, but with each other (how?) related to present in the individual
movements of the sonata. To justify the undeniable connection between the sentences and their different
effects on To explain properly forcing the audience to them under certain feelings down as content.
The interpretation fits sometimes, more often not, not necessarily. This is always necessarily
fit that four Tonsätze are connected into a whole, which, according to musical and aesthetic
have laws to stand out and increase.

We owe the imaginative painter M. v. Schwind a very attractive illustration of the Piano Fantasy, Op
80 by Beethoven, whose individual rates of the artist as a coherent Events of the same main
characters conceived and visually represented. Just as the painter Scenes and characters from
the sounds out looks, so shall the listener feelings and events into it. Both have to a certain
context, but not necessary, and only with this have to do scientific laws.

It is customary to often argue that Beethoven in the design of some of his compositions, certain
to have events or states of mind thought. Where Beethoven or any other composer This process has
been observed, he used it merely as a tool by the link to facilitate
an objective event, the holding of musical unity.

 She mustn't be downed, mustn't
be kept depleted. It's a loss too horrible to face. She sees the world as it is. She knows
the dangers. She's got to be protected from them, so she can go on seeing."

"What does she see?" asked Nan curiously. "What kind of thing?"

"Everything. Life. When it comes to what the collective brain can do, you can't limit her.
You never'll make her believe in miracles, but she can find out how they're done."

"Mercy!" said Nan. "You talk like a book."

"Notes, for an essay: 'France.' I've been thinking 'em out. How she ought to be given a hand,
so she doesn't have to spend the next thirty years or so outwitting the German devil. That's
hard sledding for her beautiful intelligence. She ought to be safe, so she can turn it to other
things: the science of living, hers, ours, everybody's."

"Ah," said Nan, "but they'll tell you it won't be for everybody: only France."

"That's the point," said Raven. "It's a gamble. But they can't deny she's got the beautiful
intelligence. I can trust anything so perfect. I trust it absolutely."

"Why don't we do it ourselves? Build a fire under us, Rookie. Come on!"

"We aren't homogeneous," said Raven. "We've no race spirit, no live nerve through the whole
of us. France has. That mind of hers, that leaping intelligence! If she were as holy as she
is keen, she'd make the world the poets dreamed of."

"Then go to it," said Nan. "Turn in your money. I will mine. Stump you!"

"Not yet," said Raven. "You sit tight and see how I come out. I haven't got enough to set the
Seine afire, but such as it is, I'd like to turn it over to her for what she needs most: agriculture,
schools, research. Administered so it could be withdrawn if she didn't make good and turned
in somewhere else. Oh, it's a gamble! I told you it was. But administered, mind you. That's
the point."

"Through Dick," she commented, plainly with dissatisfaction. "Now, why Dick?"

"Because," said Raven, "Dick's got a head for organizing. He's his father over again, plus
the Raven streak. And the Raven streak doesn't do him any harm. It isn't soft, like Old Crow--and
me. It's his mother in him, and she takes back--but O Lord! what's the sense of going into that?"

"Anyhow," said Nan, with decision, "you keep your affairs in your own hands."

"For the present, yes," said Raven. "And I do want to think it out in detail. I can do it at
Wake Hill. I shall get on my pins enough for that."

"Isn't it funny?" said she. "Aunt Anne with her Palace of Peace and you with your invincible
France. But, Rookie, you hear to me. Whatever you do with your own money, you do it your own
way. Don't be a slacker."

Raven sat looking at her, a slow smile dawning. He rather liked Nan's taking him in hand.

"That's it, is it?" he asked, with a relish she was glad to see. "A slacker! so be it. If I'm
a slacker, I am. I'm a conscientious objector. What I object to is the universe, the pattern
it's made on. I object to the way we're running it, and, being made as we are, I don't see
how we can be expected to do anything but what we're doing. It's a perfectly logical proposition.
And except for a few minor chores I've got to see to, I simply won't play."

Nan was thinking. She looked down at her hands, lying in her lap. Raven looked at them also
and wondered, as he often had, since they came home, how such hands could have done the tasks
she set them to. She looked up and met his eyes gravely with something imperative in hers.
It is a way women have sometimes. They seem to be calling on the boy in man and bidding him
take heed.

"I wouldn't," said she, "talk to Dick about going to Wake Hill."

"What would you do? Cut stick, and let him wonder what in the deuce it's all about?"

"I wouldn't talk; I'd write."

"Oh, write!--what's the difference?"

"If you talk, he'll say something that'll shut you up and you'll be just as far apart as you
are to-day. 

On the Prussian, Saxon and many other items can be the case that a letter lost comes occur even
more rarely, because every letter is written especially in the postcard is, namely, the recipient's
name and the place where the letters are determined by the Number series, which is also set
to the letters. Here it is found so soon, if missed on a post office, a letter is, one has
to look for him, for we can all Letter from the place of his task until the locations of his
determination to prove. When the taxi between Reich items as well as for the items in other countries
such as England, France & c. behaves it is hereby otherwise. Since the simple letters are written
not by name but only counted, then packed up and sent away. Consequently, this particular letter
can not be demonstrated, even when counting can easily be given a letter. The counting is done
anyway just for the safety of the letters, but rather the calculation of the postal money motion.
However, one can but also greater in the post the letters into one, or rather More special attention
= = recommend by them, the mail art language to = rekommendirt =. You must write in this respect,
the word = = rekommendirt to the letter, except the ordinary Postal money, pay a little more, per
diligentia. Then, the letter is especially in the postcard written, but which contributes to the safety
of the letter. On the kurbraunschweigischen items such registered letters with double postage.
In particularly important letters from post offices also provide that the recipient shall certify
the same delivery need. - In letters, in which changes, or other papers of value are closed, it advisable,
and such happen if it can specify the value of Beischlüße on the address. For brevity, we are accustomed
to this as perhaps only one NB. to sit on the letter and the Post Offices are so aware of
this NB. in the postcard to notice. - So at the post office can not be justly ridiculed ears a letter.
If it happens, it could more done by the postman. However, this will be such preventing the
more so since they them to order the traditional letters, must pay the postage and even expected
for each delivered a letter from the recipient have accidents. Most often letters go into
the homes of the informants themselves, and by the imprudence of their Messenger laughed ears,
for it is not uncommon for letters that have been shipped through the servants' should be,
were found on the street. -

The Rekommendiren = = = and = Notabeniren of the letters in words can be displayed by some measure
Benefits being. - By contrast, the Cito on the letters usually without
benefit and effect.

The Servants can post a letter from one place to another with the ordinary post quicker transport,
as the post rides, or rides. The items are always vulgar to her once appointed time, as the context
of the postal system of local calls and verstattet, abgefertiget they ride or drive in, in proportion
to the distance of the places and after Nature of the roads and calculated the number of hours
scheduled time and can therefore also never before, but due to unforeseen accidents sometimes
arrive later, thus it can actually no use to write to Letters to cito = =, because the post can
and will therefore not a minute go faster. - But someone wishes that his letter a little earlier
than usual, in the hands of his correspondents go, so he must at the address of the letter,
or by an attached memorandum, the post request, the letter at the place of his destination at once
can make to the arrival of the post especially. This effect will he that the letter do not go only through
the hands of the postman and the same after their usual Regulation under which they arrived and
ordered to submit letters to each of the series have to, but once the Postexpedienten by a
special messenger to the recipient transmitted, thereby sometimes so maybe 1 / 4 or 1 / 2 hour
time is gained. - Lives of the recipient is not in the place of distribuirenden post office,
so must the sender if he gives to quickly order the letter is to show such explicit and at the
same time , Be conveyed to specify what kind of letter to the recipient, and who like the
cost should take. Otherwise, the post does not depart from the established order, and once
the letters only in the usual manner convey.

Given to the post office letters and things may not actually from the postal servants = back
= be given. This law sowol serve the best, primarily for the safety of informants itself, and
the post is due to economics required.

It has namely been examples that once called to the post office delivered letters from another stranger
back and are therefore harmful abuse is carried. It has examples that servants, clerks and other subaltern's
letters to their rulers and superiors seeming pretexts withdrawn from the post office and those
under either entirely defeated, or at least the contents the same altered, perhaps even invoices
and bills of exchange have stolen from them. To this nonsense to prevent, it must be-ing the postal servants
always rule, they never even notified Ask entrusted to give back out of the hands. However, even
if the sender is necessary Available to receive his letter from the post back once again, he will
this can only be successful if he even asked about writing, write down the address of the letter,
the Pettschaft with which the letter is sealed, pulls the trigger, or show off, and so is not
only as the true owner legitimated, but also the post office because of the previous delivery Insurance
gives.

Sometimes they send in the mail letters and other things to a place woselbst, but the Recipient
is not already. It has usually focusing the intention that these letters or property so long as
there remain at the post office and will be stored until the recipient
also arrived there and they can make and receive.

In this way, someone letters and address matters of Ireland itself, sending it by post to a place
for them there be found, even if he will be reached in another way. At times, we also only
the intention of such letters and things do not order from the post in the usual way to leave, but
the recipients are those of the post, because of certain causes, of which they informed of the sender,
or come in line with the same are for pickup. - In all these cases it is customary in such letters
the words: poste restante, or à la poste restante, that this letter will remain until the subsequent
amendments are at the post office to share.

The post offices to promote these desires of the audience for its convenience and benefits, you.
But it is also cheap, however, that in such cases is not placed in danger be. It is therefore
absolutely necessary that the recipients of such letters and things
are any time sufficient to legitimize reception.

This always happens when it is either a power of attorney, or at least teach a statement by
the sender, or when, if foreign and unknown People are to provide security, and indeed to them
in these cases from the post given Follow the instructions. - Because the post is mainly connected
to ensure every effort, that the matters entrusted to the reach the right recipient.

Correspondents sometimes do that to them by mail to their letters and ending Matters of the postal
servants = = advances are made. This occurs when, for example, a merchant or factor, and for an absent
a display of so-called charges etc. has made, by the way but the
same is not charged, so this is designed or advanced money can pay
by mail, which then by means of such Letter to the debtor imputes
away from it and report back leaves.

Except that it is supposed to be only court magistrates and the like authorities allowed to
should, however, such advances from the post office and pay to set off the guilty Not everyone
who makes money on Foreign claims that the post fall hard. It is also understood of course
that does not make similar advances substantial sums Being that they are completely liquid and
that the sender when the recipient about the advance of the Post to report again refuse to remain
so authentic and hold harmless the post, especially since the Post has no violence, nor shall
use to recover money the like. - It is also reasonable that the Postofficianten be allowed
for the prepayment of such Advances and recovery, which they do at their own risk, a proportional
remuneration to take. Such a charge usually be called too common procura. Also, it is understood
that the post should verliehren by the difference of the value of money, nothing, but that it
must be allowed her to take belonging premium when the loss is worst Coin replaced again as it
has paid.

From Estaffetten.

With the Estaffetten it has the following Bewandniß. A Estaffette is an extraordinary, or extra
ordinary horse post, which brought a letter from one place to another post as standard is. Ordinary
post only go off at certain fixed days and hours; Estaffetten can be sent at any time. Also called
the letter itself, the telegram, which is transported in this way
estaffettenmäßig by post, Estaffette = =.

The Estaffetten take the path of the ordinary horse-posts, including
the touch namely stations and Change the horses there.

Namely, when someone from Leipzig a letter to Estaffette Vienna wants to send, so he has to this
letter, written on the same after the word Estaffette = = is to give Leipzig to the post office
and actually pay the cost immediately when the Letters must submit franco. The post office then immediately
made a coachman with the And gives the same letter from a passport with which the address of
the letter and the route to take charge of the relay race is noticed. Of this type of Leipzig have
been cleared Postillon rides to the next post station on the route to Vienna, there delivers
the letter, together with the pass to the postmaster and returns it back to Leipzig. From this
station is then once again sent a coachman with what is thought and letters to the second pass, and
so it goes from one station to another, until the letter into the post office delivered at
Vienna is that then the same can get to the recipient. - Go on until all Relay race. Therefore,
it is quite impossible with the same relay race, or with the same postilion which is sent from
one place with a Estaffette to get a response back, as some believe erroneous. For the sending off
of Leipzig Postillon does not ride quite so to Vienna and delivers the letter, not even from
the recipient, but he returns, as all Moreover, from his home station. - If that is done in a
Estaffette response; must our correspondent from his place again also send a Estaffette which
is then transported to the nature namely through the mail stations. - Besides, it is good Write
to the relay race-the time and hour of release noted that the receiver and can judge the post
office if something was missed here. However, make this the Post offices already own because in the
Estaffetten passport, any post office, the time of arrival and mark the departure and because
the Estaffettenreiten usually only a mile Hour and every post office only 1 / 4 hour verstattet
the expedition, can not so easily a neglect occur as extraordinary only by unforeseen contingencies,
if, for example, a coachman with his horse falls, or is otherwise met an accident which must
be noted, however, also each time by the postal stations in the passport. It goes so saying that
with a simple Estaffette only letters, packages or even which of the Postillon can keep in
his pocket, but do not send suitcases, boxes and crates could. If you want to carry things like extremely
rushed, so you have to Extra Post to take. -

If the sender is not from the Estaffette frankirt or paid, so must those of recipient do and
the amount of the costs, which appears to him and what he most a Quitung can be imparted, succumbed
to his post office that then every post-station, which affected by the Estaffette was zutheilt
earned fee. Because of this over to leading Invoice and payment for the procurement of the post
offices in addition to the care taxmäßigen Miles funds for some pennies as cheap to pay to leave.
The mileage allowance for a Relay race is now in the different countries because of high freight
rates, 12 to 16 or more Ggr. As such by the various state governments, at the discretion of
the Circumstances be fixed.

By couriers.

Just as extraordinary to imaginary type a single letter or package, as Estaffette, can be obtain
through the mail, so it is also a human with a similar way Send the mail. Will Someone even get a
letter from one place to another, or is a person sent to deliver a message verbally to operate
and be Such a couple of post, so called him a Courier = =. In France, any means horse post,
or any post rider Courier. - A courier Reiset on how Estaffette and fortgeschaft is in a similar
way by post, from station to station. Usually, and the mileage allowance under the Estaffettentaxe
paid.

If a courier from Petersburg to Paris should go, so can accomplish
the same otherwise his journey as Courier, than that he is to this
purpose, at the post office at St. Petersburg reports of the same
Courier post-horses with the same desires and bring to the next post
office can be in since then, and then he went from station to station
fortgeschaft until the end of his Travel has been reached.

Each courier was supposed to keep on talking. And as a courier, the intention in accordance with,
why he is sent, usually must quickly rush forward, he will not always his horse in steps, but
chiefly in the routine, where possible, and let go even faster, verliehren also to the postal
stations, where horses are changed, and no time at all can reside anywhere.
 We could see the moon
and the Milky Way--but I suppose that comes under stars--and the upshot of it was that we thought
we saw God. And after you'd seen God, you knew saying there shouldn't be any more war was only
beginning at the wrong end of the puzzle. Of course war is a damnable business, perhaps the
most damnable we go into because it's so wholesale. But if you begin at the right end of the
puzzle and not the wrong, the thing we learn is that the only reality in this universe for
which it's worth going through the obscene hells of which war is one, is God. To be aware of
Him, not to explain Him. You can't explain Him. You can't explain what He's done to you or
means to do. All you can do is to keep your eye on Him and fall in.

"I came home. I was rather cracked, when I got here, I was so pleased with my little plaything.
I'd seen God. I was only one of a good many millions that saw Him. And it was exactly as if
you went into an enchanter's cave and expected to find some dream you'd dreamed made real,
and all you found was the Forty Thieves sitting there counting over their spoils. No! no! it
isn't an allegory. I don't mean America and profiteers. I don't mean anybody particularly.
But it began to come over me more and more every day that we and everybody else on the round
world, if they had seen God, had forgotten all about it. Just as the old-fashioned men at Wake
Hill used to read their Bible Sunday and put it away on the parlor table with the album and
go out early Monday morning to carry the apples to market all deaconed on top. By George! we
were the same old lot. And worse, for we'd had our look through the peep-hole into eternities,
and now we said, 'It makes my eyes ache. I'm going to wear a shade.' No, son, I don't mean
Leagues of Nations and Internationalism or any of the quack remedies. I mean just God. We'd
been badly scared--Nan said so to-day--and we got down on our knees and howled to the Highest
and offered Him tribute.

"Now you may say that even if the whole world had forgotten God, if I'd seen Him why couldn't
I still remember Him? Why couldn't I consider the millions of years that go to the making of
man and do my little bit and wait on His will? Because my temptation came on me. I was tempted
in the wilderness of my own credulity and conceit. For I looked back over time past and I said
like Solomon--I don't know whether he ever said it, but he's the most blasé Johnnie I remember--'All
is vanity.' As it was in the beginning, so it ever shall be. 

Fear was the beginning, fear and lust and a horrified curiosity about what was coming. Night
there was, and listened to his senses, for afar approached tumult, uproar, a Mixture of noise:
rattling, muffled blare and thunder, shouting to shrill and a certain howling in drawn u-sound,
all interspersed and ghastly sweet drowned out by deep cooing, wickedly insistent flute playing,
which is based on shameless way of penetrating the intestines charmed.
 Never: for if we seek out many inventions to down disease and
poverty, we shall unloose as many by-products of discovery and bring new plagues upon us. 

Raiden, and Rai-jin, the god of thunder, enjoys great respect in Japan, but he is greatly feared, when
accompanied by Futen, the spirit of the storm occurs, for then he rages and howls in the Mountains
and the canyons, then it crashes into the woods and the sun is hidden from the angry army of
the storm and thunder spirits. Above all storms high in the air, surrounded by black clouds,
Futen approach, with a hairy gruesome monster clawed Hands and feet. Two large long tusks protrude
from its mouth, a flat nose, blunt, short ears and eyes glittering maliciously complete the
terrifying figure of this Monster.
 Don't think I blame Him. He wouldn't do it out of cruelty. He'd have to
put me back. From the fact
that the composer is forced to think in sounds, already follows the emptiness of music, by any conceptual
content ought to be thought in words.

So severe, we in the study of all music content on given texts, as the pure concept of music had
to exclude contradictory, so indispensable are the masterpieces of vocal music in the assessment of the
content of music. From simple songs to create rich Opera and the time-honored celebration
of God through church music has never stopped the art of music, to accompany the most expensive
and important movements of the human mind and therefore indirectly
to glorify.

In addition to the vindication of the intellectual content still has a second consequence, strongly
are highlighted. The Non-formal beauty of the music it does not prevent their creations individuality
to impress. The nature of the artistic process, and the invention this particular issue is in
any case only so that they could never in a higher public can dissolve, but stands as an individual.
A melody of Mozart or Beethoven rests as firm and pure on its own feet, like a verse of Goethe,
Lessing's a saying, a Thorvaldsen statue, a picture Overbeck. The independent musical idea (theme)
have the security of a quote and the vividness of a painting, they
are individual, Personally, ever.

Therefore, if we already share Hegel's view of the inane of music can not it seems to us wrong
to think that he is this art only the pronunciation of "individualitätslosen Interior "assigns. Even
Hegel's musical standpoint, what the much-forming, objective work of the composer sees music as a purely
free alienation of subjectivity considered not to follow the "Individualitätslosigkeit"
the same, since the subjective productive Spirit appears much individually.

As

the individuality in the choice and treatment of the various musical elements expresses, we have
the 3rd Chapter touches. Compared with the charge of emptiness that is the music content, music
alone, which no small spark of divine fire is like the beauty of every other art. Only in this way
but that one, "every other" content of Musical art negates inexorably, save one, "whose" content.
Because of the vague feelings what that content is, at best, back to her is not a spiritual
meaning to derive, but the beautiful sound design specific than the free creation of the Ghost
from geistfähigem material.

    Sound and rhythm. "(Aesthetics of music, vol. 1837th § 24) Sound
    and rhythm. "(Aesthetic of Music, vol. 1837th § 24)

done to a musical work of art feeding to walk the earth.

What impressed us to a musical to transform a work of art on earth. What to us

can attract (not must) that we do later, where can excite the subjective (not must) we do later,
when the subjective

. Refute And so on. Does this now refute a particular feeling.

  And so on. Does this is now a certain feeling
  

Abstraction of the listener that some dramatically effective abstraction the handset, which is dramatically
  effective any

Brings new things, that leaves driving force in their own individual
beauty New things, brings the leaves floating in their own individual
beauty force

With wisdom we are particularly well when asked about
the "tone painting"

  That is moments from the life of a interpreted with certainty.

"The fact that there are moments in the life of

close, close the certain musical, including rhythmic relationships that certain music, including
rhythmic relationships

  
  [34] Helmholz, teaching the Sensations of Tone. 2. Ed 1870th P. 319

Art, music and bebegreift therefore never otherwise than purely phenomenological.

Art, and therefore never sees music differently than purely phenomenological.

What
separates this outlet and natural rhythm of human music, and spout.
What this Natural rhythm of the human music off,

[45] Our view is
consistent with the research of Jacob Grimm, [45] Our view is consistent
with the research of Jacob Grimm,

This difference between the music
and other arts (the only difference between this the music and other
arts (only the

are are. ]

"I'd no idea," he began, "why, I'd no more idea----"

Raven's hand tightened on his fork. Then he laid the fork down, for, after all, he had finished
breakfast, and might as well make the most of running his hands into his pockets and shutting
them there.

"Morning, Dick," he said. "Have in some toast and eggs?"

Dick, in no mind even to weigh the significance of toast and eggs, was staring at him. He was
cheated by a poverty of words when he most needed them, and could only repeat:

"I hadn't the least idea. I tell you it never occurred to me. I don't believe it did to Nan,
either."

"What?" asked Raven. "What is it that didn't occur to you?"

"I did think of it when you first spoke of going to France, you know," said Dick, in a justification
of himself that seemed more for his own ease than Raven's. "I didn't believe you could pull
it off, a man of your years. You took it so easy! You never turned a hair. But I might have
known you'd have to pay for it afterward."

"What is it I've taken so admirably?" asked Raven. "What is it I've got to pay for?"

"Why," said Dick, "your slogging over there--a man of your age----"

"Well," said Raven curtly, cracking his voice at him in a way Dick had never had to take from
him, "how is it I'm paying? What's the matter with me?"

"Why," said Dick, in a perfect innocence of any offense in it, "don't you know? You've seen
enough of it. I should think you'd be the first to know."

Raven simply looked at him. Dick had a feeling that his uncle was about to roar out something,
and braced himself for the unbelievable event. However, it would not surprise him. That, he
knew, was a part of it. But Raven was putting his question again, smoothly and tolerantly,
as if to assure him there was time enough to make a well considered reply:

"Just what, in your opinion, is the matter with me?"

"Why," said Dick, that innocent gaze still upon him, "shell shock."

Raven jumped. Every nerve in him seemed to give a little twitch of pure surprise with every other.

"O Lord!" said he. "Who could ever have expected that? It's worse than I thought."

"Why, it's no disgrace," Dick assured him eagerly. "Think how many fellows have had it. They
haven't got over it. They're having it now. The only thing to do is to recognize it and put
yourself under treatment."

"That'll do," said Raven, with a determined calm. "Your diagnosis has gone far enough. And
now I shall have to ask you to do two things for me."

"Two!" Dick echoed, and Raven, though at the end of his patience, was touched to see the suffused
look of the boy's eyes. "You needn't cut it down to two. Just you tell me----"

There, though he was poetically eloquent and diffuse in print, he stopped and could literally
say no more without an emotion he considered unworthy of him.

"Two things," said Raven. "One is to forget every blamed word of the screed I was jackass enough
to send you. The other is to give me your word you won't mention it, even to me. Oh, there's
another thing. Go home and burn the thing up."

Dick's eyes were all a wild apprehension.

"Oh," said he, "I can't burn it. I haven't got it."

"You haven't it? Who has?"

"Nobody--not yet."

"Oh, then you've destroyed it already."

"No," said Dick miserably. "I've sent it off."

"Who to? Nan?"

"No. Mother."

Raven could hardly believe him. He did not remember any illuminating confidences from Dick
on the subject of mother, but he made no doubt the boy looked upon her as he did, as a force
too eccentrically irresponsible to be unloosed.

"Well!" he said. In any case,
I must go, it should be a last goodbye, so yes just happen, which I itself was determined,
and this is a beautiful dream to find such a beautiful conclusion, and, "he said softly with a soft
look, the expression between pain and happiness in the middle held, "should be the fight of
my duty and my pride against my love renewed - I want and be frightened of a fight! That would
be a vote on his own strength, - I must go and I will be strong enough to endure all that this
fatal moment I can bring. "

He looked at his clock.

"Just over an hour," he said - "but that time flies often so slow
when you Wings and wishes as quickly fades away if you want to tie
her up.

"

He took a book and began reading, but his thoughts were not on his reading, at short intervals,
he looked at the clock to advance their hands barely seemed, in a trembling Restlessness,
he moved back and forth, in rapid succession his face was soon deep pale, Soon glowing red,
a light sweat dripped from the roots of his hair, and despite all Spirit, which he spent in
order to remain calm, he was found after one hour in that state of feverish excitement, which
the inner struggle of feelings and thoughts when outside inactivity has always generated,
and which in strong and nervous natures are a sequence of waiting,
this is intolerable under any condition, suffered by the poor people
tormented life is so rich.

       At last the moment had come, he pocketed the sword, put on his cap
and left to enter without his father's room again, the house.

* * * * *

Miss Anna had lived in no less agitation and excitement to the day.

It was her not become difficult to find a pretext for an hour, which she her lover specified,
to go out alone. She was ever used, always all the way to the dictates of their own will to act,
which their mother superior indifference, her father were placed out of tenderness rarely an
obstacle in their way.

Once again, they had everything covered, what she would say to the young man. Her heart proposed
in eager longing towards the moment when she would see him again. It was impossible that his
hard mind could resist her love because she knew that his heart belonged
to her.

With anxious trembling left, but with a happy, hopeful smile on his lips they have short time before
the appointed hour, and began her apartment on the Promenade Thiergarten
front of the house of her parents and depart as they used to do more
at this time to draw some fresh air.

Restlessly searching her views appeared in the distance, but among all the old ladies with young
Sad in delicate blue or red coats, among all the gentlemen who regularly in the measured walk
for the rest spent in the dust of the Bureau of all kinds morning investigated, they discovered
those who do not, which flew out her heart.

Slowly, lost in deep thought, she walked on.

"Good day, Miss Anna," a voice suddenly sounded right next to her, and quickly Looking up she
saw the Referendarius Rantow of which are lorgnette in front of his hat Although she declined and
with a deep bow, and like, but with the confidentiality an old friend, welcomed what she touched
the more unpleasant than her this meeting just at the present moment extremely unwanted.

With a cold and repellent countenance she returned the greeting of the young man and wanted continue
on its path.

Lord of Rantow remained at her side.

"I have in recent days in several companies sought in vain, my dear Miss, "he said," in which
I was to meet you used to. I hope you are not been ill, your flower
color should calm down.

Where these roses on the cheeks bloom and such a fire in the eyes lit, illness and suffering
have no place, " "he added politely indifferent tone, as his superficial view of the face and
glided the figure of the young girl.

"Thank you, Lord of Rantow," Anna said with the tone of a certain embarrassment, "I find me quite well
and was put out just a bit nervous - so I'm not in society gone and now wants to take a short
course in the wild, lonely for my thoughts .

Indulge "

"It should not do it," replied M. de Rantow without the rather broad
hint to notice of dismissal, which is as much in their faces, as was
in her words.

"The Loneliness is not a cure for tired nerves, a cheerful genial
chat provides much better services, I will try a little to be your
doctor.

"

"You are too kind," she replied in a slightly irritated tone, "Everyone
must know best what its natural for nervous upsets is well, and for
me is a lonely walk in the open air, "she added, with even sharper
emphasis," the best cure.

"

"I almost allowed you to these words," Lord of Rantow replied with
a smile, as he looked down through his glass in a side alley, "my
company does not impose further and yet it is difficult to me to leave
you.

If it is in earnest, however, be quite alone to do - "

"I'm really serious," Anna said quickly by a dark blush on her face,
flew - they had noticed a few steps in front of the lieutenant of
books field and made an involuntary Movement, as if to rush towards
him.

Lord of Rantow looked at a little astonished and followed the direction of her gaze.

"Ah, here is Mr. Field's books, I have not seen him!

Also a loner, "said he added with a quick glance at the young girl. "If the loneliness a thing
could share the one, I would suggest that we give ourselves to three, their enjoyment. "

Anna did not hear what he spoke, her eyes were fixed on the young
officer.

Embarrassment in her face painted, she was unsure of their steps,
that they stood almost next to Lord of Rantow.

The Lieutenant of books in the field had its first appearance in motion
a joyous Step forward made, then he noticed the young master of Rantow
which appear in Miss Anna was walking next to a confidential conversation.

A

deep pallor suddenly covered his face, his eyes opened wide and looked fixedly at the couple out,
which stopped in front of him - pulled a bitter sneer his tightly
closed lips almost spasmodic distortion, a deep breath raised his
chest, he quickly turned sideways, and with rapid steps he went to
the two young people over, with cold courtesy Miss Cohnheim militaires
greeting.

The young girl trembled in violent motion, her eyes were directed
with magnetic Gloss on the fast-pass border young officer, a deep
sigh, almost like a quietly anguished cry, wrung itself out of her
mouth, she made a movement as they wanted to stretch out their hands.

"For God's sake Mr box of books," she said.

But her voice was deeper, inner get so compressed, that her words
barely audible only for the ear of the Lord standing beside her immediately
invaded by Rantow.

In polite zeal turned to this.

"Books field," he said, "Listen here - how rude to walk such a way as - Miss Cohnheim calls
you. "

He had caught up with the young officer, put his hand on his arm and
forced him to shut to stand.

Staring, always that sarcastic, bitter smile on his lips, turned he, Mr von Rantow out to the
young girl back, which awaited him, trembling.

"I have not seen for so long, Mr. Field's books," she stammered with
unsicherm tone "I wanted to tell you - that -" she looked at Lord
of Rantow that with a smile like stood next to her on the lips, and
then she lowered her eyes - they seemed to words to look angry she
bit her sparkling teeth on the lips and came violently with the foot
on the ground.

"It's very kind of you remember me," said the Lieutenant of books box with cold, cutting politeness.
"I am extremely pleased to have you here, whether to my deep regret
I must ask for forgiveness, that I never for a moment can stop, -
the relentless service calls me.

"

He greeted militaires, bowed his head slightly against Mr Rantow of, and then hurried with rapid
Steps away.

Anna drew a long breath, she made a gesture as if to run after him,
but that would be been in vain, he retired at an ever faster speed,
they - saw him with burning Look.

A train deep painful sadness came over her face.

"I do not understand," said Mr. Rantow of "what he may have, he did indeed look very upset. Should
he have had official inconvenience? "

Miss Anna looked at him with angry flashing eyes, her eyelashes appeared in a moist Thränenschimmer.

"I
am very sorry, Mr. von Rantow," she said with a cold tone, "that
I no longer have the pleasure Your company can have, the air attacks
me, I want to go home.

"

Before the young man could reply, she turned away with a slight greeting
and walked quickly to the house of her parents.

"We go the same way," he said in amazement, "I will have just to my parents."

But she was already far away, without hearing his words. Astonished, he looked at her.

"What's going on there," he said, shaking his head to himself. "If there is a serious matter
of the heart To play - that would not fit me to my intentions, I can not be a better game , Find
the add all so admirably - well, I do not think it is a serious obstacle will be, "he said,
stroking his mustache is easy," These books and his box old-fashioned views will not think
of a serious job, and the old Cohnheim will also have little desire to give his only child, an
officer who has nothing more as his sword. "

He slowly walked to the far outstripped young girls and came some time later as they entered
the house of commerzienrath whose parents lived in his ground floor.

The Lieutenant of books in the field was painful stimulation of the
Brandenburg gate striding.

He stared straight ahead, barely noticing the passers-by and only with his dark Thoughts busy.

"So
that was it," he whispered, "they wanted to show me that between us all should be made that everything
for them only the volatile game was a momentary whim. A farewell was expected to be, but not
a friendly parting, which, with its gentle Beam illuminates the future life and magnifies the
pain of separation. No, this farewell was almost a mockery of the past, they wanted to me on my
way to the lonely Page shows the person who shall have the happiness I longed in vain. -

? Happiness "he said, as he raised her eyes inquiringly, -" there
may be a chance to give the side of a system that plays so heartless
with the noblest feelings, and in this way can have a love of himself,
she still can not understand the depths to measure - and they It would
not have even been necessary, "he said, grimly lips on each other
pressingly," she would not have been necessary to give me so my farewell.

I have it but certainly with my love does not pursue, I have retired
quietly and silently.

Why did she I can not still go my way? Oh, how deeply I was mistaken in her! As My father was right,
that in such groups have become rich parvenu there no heart and gives no sense. "

He found himself suddenly surrounded by several comrades, whose approach
he had not noticed and which he represented the laugh track.

"Finally, you can meet him again, this embodied hard work," cried a young Dragonerofficier.

"He's
getting ready to head in front of the Great General Staff, and makes plans for the day and night
the battles he wants to win the future. But now we have him, now he is with us . Come It is now
Hohenstein's birthday, "he said, pointing to a Husarenofficier, "We owe him in friendship
to celebrate this important day.

Büchen field may not withdraw unless he is a bad fellow. We want to go Borchard, there is an
excellent Romanée mousseux, to make his acquaintance he said. A very excellent fabric, something
hard - but where we celebrate the birthday of a good friend one can not remain so very cold
and sober. "

He grabbed the arm of the lieutenants of books box and pulled him away. The others followed.

"It
is true," cried Büchen field flaming glance, "I worked too much, too much thinking and pondered,
I want to make even the head of all thoughts.

Could I forget To drink, "he said softly to himself, -" like the
old with the water of the river of the underworld all memory of the
sufferings of life washed away from her soul!

"

In serene and joyful conversations the officers walked along the Linden and went in the elegant,
well-tried by Local Borchard in the French road.

The old waiter with the sickly, intelligent-looking face, so exactly what his guests classify
and to understand the tastes and habits of everyone always sharply in Memory retained the big-bellied
bottles brought into the ice-filled coolers.

The grafting were removed, and the elegant, dark red beverage with the white foam poured into the Krystallkelche
delicate.

The Lieutenant of books field, which seriously and with gloomy silence, the company the rest
had joined plunged a glass of purple drink after another down - a wild gaiety seemed to seize
him, his eyes blazed, his cheeks glowed, quite contrary to his usual habit, he began with sparkling
wit to take part in the conversation.

But this joke was not salutary, exciting and exhilarating - he was sharp, cutting, All in pulling
down the dust, which the serious sense of the young man was otherwise untouchable was.

His friends looked on in amazement.

"Büchen field must be something very Happy passed," said the Dragonerofficier,
"so I I never seen him.

"

"Or," said the hussar, laughing, "he is about to shoot himself dead. That is the pure gallows
humor, which speaks of him. "

"Neither the one nor the other," said a third, "it is simply this excellent Juice of the grape
of Burgundy, of our silent friend is so talkative.

"

"Or it should be about love," said the dragoon, "well this is the
weirdest thing, that one could do, - he, who up to now no eyes for
a female to have appeared and lived only to his studies.

"

"Yes, yes," the lieutenant shouted box of books, laughing, "You've made it, I'm in love. That
is truly worth, "he said, rushing down a new glass," from his usual
Peace to emerge.

No, no, "he then continued with cutting contempt," if I love would, then I would be really better
that I sat on a powder keg and the Blew. ?

For what is love, "he said, suddenly somber, -" the inhuman bondage, which the will, the courage
and the strength of a man in the volatile mood of a woman chained and the high flying moves down
noble souls in the dust and makes them a mockery of those who who understand they can not! "

Louder
and louder, the conversation was always funny, always above the glowing cheeks of the Lord box
of books, and his friends have already started with some apprehension watch him constantly filled
his glass to empty it immediately again.

It was dark, the gas flames were lit. Some single men had little to Tables in the anterior part of
the room seated, in whose background the young Officers were.

The clerk of Rantow came in, had his lorgnette the view through the large room slide and then approached
the group of officers who were known to him of all the.

He Allen was greeted by friendly, quickly handed him a filled chalice and placed a chair for
him in the circle of the rest.

The Lieutenant of books box was sunk into the corner of a divan, his somewhat rigid Eyes rested
with indescribable expression on the Baron of Rantow, a contemptuous smile played about his
lips.

"Look, Büchen field," said the Referendarius, nodding to him kindly, "you have a service over?
You were so earlier so wild and inaccessible, not only against me
but against a lady who called you and wanted to talk to you like -
that was not polite.

"

"He must ever be passed something extraordinary," said the Husarenofficier - "He is now in a
mood, as I have never seen him before. Very funny indeed, but I would not let him go so in
foreign company, or one could probably tomorrow of us have the pleasure
of secundiren him.

"

Mr. Field's books accused the party of a fleeting glance, plunged
again a glass down and said with a little unsteady voice:

"That would
be no concern - I am on the contrary, in a very peaceful mood, - very
peaceful - and very happy. - You're right, I do something very good,
very lucky happened, I have escaped a great danger, - I was about
to a deep fall do, - a deep, deep fall, "he said with a dull, always
gradually lower and lower verklingendem tone, - then dropped his head
down on his chest, he was silent and seemed now thoughts to end his
sentence.

The officers exchanged significant glances with each other.

"I was afraid," Lord of Rantow said smiling, "that you would be mad at me, and that I was the cause
of your fast run away. I recently noticed such a thing, - Should
we be rivals?

That would not be pretty, "he added," Good friends must to agree on something. "

? Rival "the officers shouted curious -" yet we have this right, he
is still in love.

It must indeed be something quite extraordinary, what could change it that way. "

Mr. Field's books taught her head slowly up, closed his tired eyes
opened far and looked with a strange expression around in circles.

"Rival,"
he then shouted with a loud laugh, turning to M. de Rantow, "we would
ever been rivals, now you can be calm, I'll kick you do not really
in his way. I guess this childish feeling, which we call love, true
to her allowed on similar devices - and its value is very low, "he
added with a shrug,"; value not to divide men. Truly, "he continued,
with a voice that swelled up soon, which soon sank to a low tone,
"here is a Roulette stands between us, I would little louis love against
all hopes and demands of the world and share love. "

"This is a good
idea," said the Dragonerofficier, who like all of society already
under the influence of the effect was of fiery wine, "a good idea
if your rivals are, your chances is to today. This is a much better
way to come to clarity, but to break their necks. A roulette is not
here to play Ecart a game to your beautiful - "

! Excellent, excellent,
"the others cried joyfully, -" an excellent idea! "

"Unlucky at cards,
lucky in love," said the Husarenofficier.

"Whoever wins the game,
must give up his love of claims -"

"Why not," said Mr Field's books,
whose eyes are always disguised, "give the Tickets here! "

Lord of
Rantow seemed a little embarrassed to be, he wanted to make some remarks
Rest, let him not to speak.

One of them had already brought Ecartékarten
two games, we conceded a corner of the table before Mr. blank books
and went to the young Lord of Rantow officer.

"I put a hundred louis,"
said the latter, by the look searchingly at Mr. Field's books taught,
as it seemed in the hope that by the high use of the young man thinking
to bring.

"I suppose," he said, gazing fixedly before him, and he
quickly drank a glass.

"Whoever wins," said the Dragonerofficier,
"also pays a hundred louis, and has the sole Quite the lady, to it
is, to make the Cour. He would give them every last straw of evidence, and it should do them
no good in the end. There was a bravado about it. If Dick, in his affectionate virtue and Amelia
in her energy of well-doing, wanted to challenge him to the proof, he'd give them a pretty
tussle for it.

"What I want to know is," said Dick, "what he thought he was going off there for? Didn't anybody
know?"

"They may have," said Raven. "I didn't know."

"And he lived his life out there, till he died?"

"Yes. And died in a very gentlemanly fashion, of pneumonia, and was found in a dignified position
on his bed, hands folded, and everything in a great state of order, as if he'd known he was
going and arranged things to give as little trouble as he could."

"What did he do up there all by himself? Read? Write?"

"He read a good deal, I believe. We found him reading when we went up."

"What sort of books?"

"Oh, hang it, Dick," said Raven, beginning to fidget under examination, "you're district-attorneying
it a trifle too much to interest me. I'm getting bored, son. This isn't a third degree."

But Dick was not to be curbed or reasoned with.

"I think," he said, "if you don't mind, we'd better talk it out. You see I do really need to
know about him, and you're the only one that can tell me. After the meeting, but he was called into the royal cabinet and he had two long
conferences with his master. Jacob tried the effect of flattery and compliments, but in vain,
Halifax refused to promise the most definite, that he vote in the House of Lords to abolish
the Test Act and the Habeas Corpus Act am.

Some men from the vicinity of the King advised him on the eve of the convening of Parliament not the
most eloquent and accomplished statesman of the century in the camp of the opposition to drive.
They represented to him that Halifax love the honor and the income of his office, that, so long
as he was Lord President, he hardly with all his might against the government will occur, but
that the dismissal of his high post as much hot, as it all Release considerations. But the king
persisted in his purpose, Halifax was notified that one of his services are no longer needed, and
his name deleted from the Privy Council book [9].

    
    [Note 9: Councillor book. The name was deleted on 21 Oct. 1685th Halifax
to Chesterfield;.

Barillon, 19 (29) Sep]

[General dissatisfaction.] His dismissal was not only in England but in Paris, in Vienna and The
Hague a stir because it was well known that he always worked out had to neutralize the influence
of the court of Versailles in the affairs of England. Ludwig was delighted with the news, the
ambassadors of the United Provinces and the House Austria, however praised the wisdom and virtues
of the statesman in a redundant Manner, which caused a great scandal in White Hall. Jacob was very
applied particularly to to tell the secretary of the imperial embassy, ​​which was not afraid
that the important Services that Halifax had made in the debate on
the Exclusion, with coarse Ingratitude would be repaid [10].

It soon became apparent that Halifax will have many followers. A portion of the Tories, with
their Danby old leaders at the top began to lead a Whig language, and even the prelates did not
understand vaguely that there was a point where the prince guilty loyalty must yield to higher
considerations. The discontent of the generals was even greater and besorgnißerregender. Already
showed the first symptoms of that mood, which has three Years later drive so many senior officers
to leave the royal standard. Men who otherwise nothing made a conscience, were now striking a sudden
concern. Churchill said so here, that the king go a bit too far. Kirke, the level of its Slaughter
was returned to the west, swore that he hold on to the Protestant faith will, and even if
he faith, in which he renounced was brought up, should be as He'll never be a Papist. He had
already been awarded, and if he ever his Ever renounce faith, he was the Emperor of Morocco by a
solemn promise given connected to Moslem be [11].

    
    

    [Note 10: Barillon 26 Oct, (5 Nov.) 1685, Ludwig to Barillon 27th Oct,
    (6th November) and 6 / 16. Nov.]
    
    [Note 11: An interesting report on the first appearance the symptoms
of discontent among the Tories found in a letter from Halifax to Chesterfield,
written in October 1635th I. Burnet + 684th +]

[Persecution of French
Huguenots.] While the excited manifold already in relationship Nation
anxiously awaited the re-convening of the Houses of Parliament came
News from France, which increased the excitement even more.

The long and heroic struggle, passed the Huguenots against the French
government had been brought by Richelieu's skill and energy to a finite
conclusion been.

This great statesman who defeated them, but they assured them by the Edict of Nantes granted freedom
of conscience. They were under some slight restrictions allowed to worship God according to their
ritual and to write in defense of their doctrine.
 He became recklessly optimistic, as the train climbed higher into the hills, and luxuriated
in it, conscious all the time that it was altitude that was intoxicating him, not any real
hope of hoodwinking Amelia. You couldn't do that so easily.

The first glimpse of a far-away mountain brought the surprising tears to his eyes. It was an
inconsiderable ridge with an outline of no distinction, but it had the old charm, the power
of clutching at his heart and dragging it up from the glories and sorrows of the sea. They went to his building and met him just about the candy to eat. The man grabbed
the roof quickly by the neck, tied him with a rather solid Knitting together the legs and carried
him home.

Here he showed it to his wife and said to her: "The guy has for his meanness now even hurt. We
will kill him, and then eat lunch, "With these Words, he hung on the roof at a top cross bar
in the kitchen and went back into the Forest to more quickly bring
some brushwood for fuel.

The woman took during this time its rice mortar and began to pound
rice for lunch.

During her work, she heard moaning above the roof and sigh, though she felt pity for the Animals,
had she allowed herself to her work and did not interfere, as if they had not heard.

But the roof did not stop to mourn, because he wanted to arouse the sympathy of women because
He hoped they would release him, and when he saw that all the complaining did not help was
he reflected thoughtfully on a list get away because he wanted to, and be at least if only for
a minute. The Badgers can turn in fact in any shape, but they can do so only if they are in
free use of their limbs. Tied assets they do not exercise their art. Then he built his plan now
to not only get free, but also to take revenge. Therefore, he stopped his moaning and called
the woman with gentlest voice, "But, my dear, what do you torture
yourself for so much!

The rice pounding is for an old woman too hard. Let me down and I want you this Working off!
"

"I thank you," replied the woman, "is just beautiful up there, because you would help me not,
but auskneifen. Then we could not eat you for lunch and my husband would angry and beat me! "

"But
be not so fearful," said the roof with an insinuating voice, "concludes but all the windows and
doors, then I can not go. I promise you not to run away and your husband needs to know nothing
about it, because you hang me here again, if I have helped you.

Believe me, I do it just to love you because I'm sorry one to see torture old woman so hard! "

The woman was uncertain when the roof and noticed that his words were not without success; he
spoke even more beautiful words, so that the woman - silly as it was - in his words faith and
really gave him untied. Hardly the badger on the floor and was free, so He rushed to the woman,
killing her, took her clothes and put them away yourself at, so turning to the woman. Then he
cut some pieces of the dead woman's flesh off, threw them into the mortar and mixed it with rice.
The other parts of the body He threw behind the house in a heap. Now, he cooked a nice dish
and when the man returned he got it set before eating. The man thought, of course, it was his
wife, the roof would have slaughtered during his absence. He was very happy about it and he
liked the food excellent, but he was surprised that the meat is slightly
tough and was meager.

He offered the badger, who served in the shape of women to [1], and also something to eat, this
but thanked him and said when the man had eaten everything, mocking
this right:

"Well, you poor man, you ate your wife!

Shame on you, to eat his own wife. Go outside if you do not believe me and see what lies behind
the house! "

He resumed his form as roof and raced out of the house. The man, again highest frightened rushed
out and also saw the dismembered corpse behind the house his wife.
He also broke into tears and was inconsolable.

Then came the hare, and heard the sad story. He comforted the man as best he could and promised to
punish the roof and avenge the death of his friend's wife.

[Colored image]

He took something in the kitchen Miso [2] and mixed it with crushed red pepper, then returned
He returned to the woods, where he soon met the badger, who had collected
chaff for his camp.

The hare helped the bundle on his back and when the roof immigrated to its construction, lighted
the hare it to quick.

As the bundle was tied quite firmly to the back, which the Hare had done on purpose, so it did
not fall down rather than up the line, making it attached, was burned was, of course, was
the back of the badger badly burned.

It seems helpful, the rabbit said, "but not Whine, like an old woman. I have a good salve for
burns, keep quiet and let you rub it! "

The badger clenched his teeth and the Hare set about burning the back
with the einzuschmieren mixed with red pepper miso.

That he not proceeded smoothly, one can imagine also that the roof of his pain could not bite
and started crying terribly, as miso and pepper in his Wounds began to work.

He suffered hellish pain and dragged himself painfully in his lair, where he and Woe Oh collapsed
on his bed. "Would you whined earlier, it did not fall today so bad, "he shouted to the rabbit
when he left him to rush to the old man and that make use of the punishment of the wicked message.

The
man, who had been buried his wife, was not satisfied with this punishment, He demanded the
death of the badger in atonement, for he feared rightly that when this back to health was, he would
still take further revenge. The rabbit, and he lit it made another plan to bring the roof killed:
He built that is, two boats, a small wood and a larger clay. Once this was done, he went to
the badger to see how he was doing. This is now the wound had healed somewhat, but he suffered
terrible hunger, he had during his illness not brought to them.

When he the hare saw them he was glad, for he really believed that his terrible ointment have
helped, he asked him to get it to eat.

The hare answered, "I have unfortunately not here, but in the river I saw some beautiful fish,
come on, who want to We catch us.

"Although the roof was able to walk from hunger and weakness hardly dragged it themselves
but to the river bank, where the two boats lay. The rabbit asked, "What do you want take? "Of
course, the large," decided the roof, "I am one of the betters, and then heavier than you, because
I would take the little boat not! "

He even climbed into the Tonboot, while the hare, satisfied with his
cunning, jumped into the small wooden boat.

Now both rowed to the middle of the river, but no fish could be seen what the roof was very angry.

"There's
one," the rabbit cried suddenly.

When the roof turning round around for the fish to look, she took the hare his oar, and struck
a heavy blow after the other boats, the course, immediately jumped into pieces. The roof fell
into the water and crying out loud would save themselves by swimming. But the hare was in his boat
quickly behind him and struck with the rudder to him, exclaiming at every stroke, "This is
for the old woman, murdered, this is for the murdered old lady! "

He suggested as long as the roof until it really was dead and large
number of Fish, passed by the just eaten was.

Now the bunny happy and good things went back to the shore, and hastened
to his old friends to bring him the good news.

"The badger is dead, the badger is dead Your wife is avenged, "he
shouted from a distance and told, arrived at the house of the old
man, this, as he lured the roof on the water how he had smashed the
boat, and finally killed the villain, after the fish of the was eaten.

As was the man who previously had still fear that the roof also him and the hare would inflict an
injury, again a happy heart. He invited the rabbit with one of to get his wife's grave.

As they stood at the grave, cried the man, just as if his wife was still alive:

"Lady! You are now avenged. The badger, our enemy is dead, killed by my Friend, the white hare,
here beside me. We can now be no fear, the villain is harm us no more! "

Having said this, he made three deep bows [3] and went with the rabbit in the house back. Here
he prepared a meal that, as well as he could and it had to its Gratitude to prove.

He invited the hares but stay with him and to live in his home, but beat the hare this out thanks.
He said he could not sleep in a room that had a roof. He could just
sleeping outside under the roof of the sky.

    
    
    So the old man had to be content and live in his house alone, but
    he remained little in the house all day, he went into the woods and
talked with the hare, they talked about all sorts of things, but their
main discussion was the roof, by his I envy and his hostility himself
killed.

    The weather was bad, so visited the hare the man in the house and
    brought him always with beautiful fruit.

    
    
    So both were living in peace, in harmony and friendship for many,
many years.

  When they died, no one knows, but the White Rabbit was the story
his Relatives told, and this they again theirs, and so on until the
present day, where it was written and printed, so that they will never
forget and every one remember that you punish yourself if you want
to disturb the grudging friendship of others.

  

[Note 1: In the Japanese families, there is still much Custom, that the man eats alone and is
operated by his wife. If children are present, the man eats with the children first, the Wife
and daughters later.]

[Note 2: = miso prepared from bean, yeast and salt chubby Broth.]

[Note 3: Japanese custom. In Japan, each Family event, birth, engagement, marriage, death, etc. to the
ancestors the family announced.]

[Decoration]

[Decoration]

Cunning does not protect against fraud.

    
    The Sea of ​​Japan lives a poisonous fish called fugu has [1].
    Such a fish once a man had caught and prepared. Finally he
    came but concerns and he threw first a bit out of his cat.

  This took it and ran away with it.

  The man ran after her to see if she's a pity.

But the cat was under a Woodpile crawling after a while and came
out again quite merry.

Now, the man thought that the cat had used the piece of fish without injury to himself. If such
a clever animal like a cat, a fish that is considered toxic, not
hate, but safe consumption, then he could do it, he sat down and ate
with great Relish the fish dish.

But the cat was really a clever animal, for even her were Concerns
she had come, and therefore hid the piece of fish to see only provisionally,
whether their Lord enjoy the fish.

When she saw that he ate with good appetite, because they also ran back and enjoyed it. But
the consequences were not.

The poison soon began to work and Mr. and cat died in great agony. Thus we see how even the smartest
can be deceiving sometimes.

[Note 1: Fugu, a fish stachlicher to the genus Tetrodon properly, the flesh of this fish is
poisonous and therefore inedible. It is only caught at as a fertilizer to be used.]

  [Decoration]

[Decoration]

The thoughtful heron.

  

A heron was walking in the early morning in the ponds gravely up and down, and he was hungry and
looked for prey. Then he suddenly saw a delicate eel through the clear water snake; a lively
little fish came up and swam at last a frog hopped on a large Lotus leaf and agreed to its morning
song.

"Hey," thought the heron, "that is rich booty! But which of the three, I take first? "

He tilted his head thoughtfully, but while he pondered, the three little creatures their dangerous
enemy sees.

The frog was gone with a set in the water, the fish surfaced and quickly under swam away and
the eel hid in the deepest mud.

There stood the heron, as he had decided to return alone, the prey was safe disappeared and new
did not show. He still stands thoughtfully in the lakes and is still waiting. So it is all
too slow, the above consider the action forgotten.

[Image]

[Decoration]

Rewarded child's love.

About two hundred years lived in the area between Inaba and Harima province of Mino near the town
of Tarni a woodcutter, who had only one son. Both were very poor and had a day to the mountains
to earn their bread by cutting wood and painfully sparse.

As long as both were healthy and strong, they managed to even make
a living to win.

But the father was getting older and more stiff and awkward term were his limbs, so that Finally,
the son had to go alone into the forest, while the old stayed at home. The young Man this
made no great concern, strong and vigorous as he was, he worked more diligently and was happy when he
had earned in addition to the daily diet for some Sen [1] more to his old father buy a bottle
of Sake [2] to which this passionate like to drink and it also felt
good and it invigorated.

Then came but once a very cold winter and the snow-covered until late in the spring Field and field
and made the roads impassable, so that the young woodcutter only a scanty Merit and therefore
often found his father could not buy the usual sake. In He was obviously very sad and often
prayed to the gods, they would like a hard winter put an end to send him or other assistance. One
day, he again had only a very bring small load of wood in the city
can, and revenue was not enough even to the most necessary, let alone
a bottle of sake for the father.

Although he likes to the Sakehändler Borg would have given the young man wanted to know anything,
for he thought of the proverb: "Debt are worse than moths in Furs," [3]

So he went home and lost his way while thinking only about how he's
father could give to strengthen.

Arriving at the foot of the Tagiyama, he squatted down to rest for a while, but again he found
no peace from his troubles, and so turned he was again in fervent
prayers to the gods.

Then he suddenly heard a strange noise, steam
rose from the side of the mountain and a peculiar smell, almost like
warmed sake, filled the air. It quickly became the fatigue the young
man disappeared, he jumped up and rushed to the spot where the light
cloud of steam rising.

What he saw there? What miracle have seen
his eyes?

Where there was always a bare rock point, now sprang a
lively source and hopped funny jumps in the Tale. The young man drew
in the hollow of his hand some water, it was warm, and tasted it.
What a strange taste! Something he had never drunk. "It's a gift from
you, o gods," he exclaimed, and filled after a prayer of thanks done,
had his travel bottle of the precious liquid.

Happily married and
his concern, he hastened to his home, where he met his father the
wonderful Potion administered. But it was really a miracle potion,
for the old man felt a new Forces to move into his body, and yes,
the next day he was already so far strengthened, Having to get up
that he and his son, could migrate to the source. "If this gift the
gods are only for drinking? "asked himself the son and advised his
father in the warm to take a bath water, which he did. He noted that
after bathing his aching limbs . Ebbed

Every day, both now migrated
to the wonderful spring and before long the old man was so far produced,
that he accompany his son back into the forest and help with his day's
work could, consequently, both were freed from all anxiety and could
contented and happy . Live

The news of this miracle spread quickly
and, of course, from a distance and close rushed the sick and infirm
to seek to bring about healing their suffering and to find.

"No," said Charlotte. She wore the flush of resentful matronhood. "I was goin' to. I started,
one afternoon. An' after I'd knocked, I heard him jawin'. Well! You never heard a man talk
so in all your life. I never did, anyways! twittin' her with everything under the sun."

"Nice for you," said Raven, "butting in on a row."

"I didn't butt in," said Charlotte. "I turned round an' come straight home. An' the next day
they rode by, as budge as you please, she with the baby in her lap. Baby had on a nice white
coat. I didn't go ag'in. I didn't feel to."

Then Raven, seeing that Jerry had regretfully but inevitably laid down his knife and fork,
as one who can no more, relinquished the Tenneys, and there was a period of that silence so
blessed among intimates, and Charlotte brought in the pudding. And after dinner, while she
washed the dishes, Raven sat in the kitchen and smoked a pipe with Jerry and thought intermittently,
in the inmost cell of his most secret mind, about the blessed beauties of things. Here they
were all about him, inherited treasures of memory, some of them homely and of little value,
many of them far less convenient than the appliances of the present day. He even thought he
recognized ancient utensils, as Charlotte washed them, the great iron spider where crullers
were fried--always with a few cut in hands with straight fat fingers, to suit a boyish fancy--and
the colander he had once been found utilizing as a helmet in a play of chivalry. Such smells
came out of this kitchen, like no other smells in any house he knew. The outlines of things,
the tints of time and use! There was the red door into the buttery, where once, when he was
a little boy, he had caught for a few minutes only an enchanting glow from the setting sun.
Sunrise and rubies and roses: none of them had ever equaled the western light on the old red
paint. Over and over again he had tried to recall the magic, to set the door at the precise
angle to catch the level rays, but in vain. It was a moment of beauty, fleeting as the sunset
itself, and only to be found in the one permanence that is memory. He remembered it now with
a thousand other impressions as lasting and as lost, and childhood and youth came alive in
him and hurt and helped him. Yes, this was home. In a hostile universe there was one spot where
he and the past could safely rest.

VIII

Raven went to sleep thinking simply about the house, while the fire flickered down on the hearth
and shadows all about the room flickered with it and then went out. He always loved shadows,
their beauties and grotesqueries, and he was unfeignedly glad he had no scientific understanding
of them, why they played this way or that and translated the substance that made them so delicately
and sometimes with such an adorable foolishness. He liked it better that way, liked to make
out of them a game of surprises and pretend they were in good form and doing particularly well,
or again far below their highest. And following his childishly enchanting game he began to
feel rather abashed over what had brought him here. Forgive me all my mistakes and
seek comfort in Him alone to see the the true consolation. The Lord be with you He bless and
comfort you. Good-bye. "

[Argyle's execution.] It is now time, the house was left of the Privy council. The clergy, which
accompanied the prisoners were not of his faith, but he heard them like , and exhorted them to warn
their congregations against those teachings that all Protestant Churches unanimously condemned. He
mounted the scaffold, where the old crude guillotine Scotland called the Virgin, waiting for him, and
gave a speech to the people, with the peculiar Phrases of his sect was interwoven, but the spirit
of true piety breathed. He said he forgives his enemies, he hoped that he would be forgiven. Only
a bitter expression escaped him. One of the Episcopal priest who accompanied him, took the edge
of the scaffold and cried with a loud voice. "My lord died as a Protestant -" Yes, "said Earl
of advancing, "and not only as a Protestant, but with the hatred of Popery, prelacy and every superstition
in the heart "-. Then he hugged his friends, gave them some characters the memory of his wife and
his children knelt down, laid his head on the block prayed for a while and finally gave the executioner
the sign. His head was on the tip put the Tolbooth, where formerly Montrose's head was decomposed
[33].

    
    [Note 33: The writer, the story of which I Argyle's expedition had
    borrowed are Sir Patrick Hume, who as Eyewitness speaks and Wodrow,
    the most valuable materials, including the Earl's own papers,
    stood at his command. Where Argyle's or Hume's credibility comes
    into question, since doubt I'm not that Argyle's story is the
    correct one. See also I. Burnet 631 and Bresson's life, edited by
    Dr. + + Mac Crie. The story of the Scottish rebellion in Clarke's
    + Life of James the Second + is a ridiculous novel, written by a
    Jacobite, who did not even bother, a map to see the theater of war.]

[Rumbold's
    execution.] The head of the brave and sincere, though not perfect
free Rumbold was already plugged in the western gates of Edinburgh.

Surrounded by the party seeking and cowardly allies, he had throughout the campaign as one
in the school of large Protectors educated soldier shown in the council had the authority Argyle's
strong supported and distinguished themselves in the field of peaceful fearlessness. After
the Army dispersed, he was attacked by a detachment of militia. He defended himself with desperate
Bravery, and would have also beaten, was it not his horse fetters cut. mortally wounded, he was
taken to Edinburgh. The government would have liked be executed in England, but he was so close to
death that if he is not in Scotland hanged, he was not able to be hung, and fun to hang him, wanted
the winner does not dismiss. It could not but expect them against a man which was considered the
head of the Ryehousecomplots and owner of the house was in which this plot was named to exercise
special clemency would, but the recklessness, with which they treated the dying, our more humane
age must appear almost incredible. One of the Scottish privy to him said he was a damned scoundrel.
"I am at peace with God, "replied Rumbold calmly," how can I be damned? "

He was all speed put on trial, convicted and sentenced, after a few hours be hung near the town of Cross
in High Street and quartered too. Although he are not without the support of two men, could he saved
but his fortitude until the last moment, and acting under the gallows,
his weak voice against Popery and tyranny with such violence that
the officers could beat the drums, so that the People could not hear
him.

He said he was a friend of the limited monarchy, but he could never believe that Providence
a few people ready booted and spurred to ride, and millions ready saddled and bridled to be
ridden, sent into the world have. "I commend and praise God's holy name" for it, he exclaimed,
"that I am not here because of a begangnen wrong, but because I stayed true to his cause in
a bad time am. And would any hair on my head, man, I would be all in this struggle because .
Set "

During the investigation, both still in execution, he spoke of the assassination of the horror
that befits a good Christian and a brave soldier. He protested to the Word of the death of decayed
man that he had never entertained the idea of ​​such an abomination to commit. But he openly admitted
that he talks to his fellow conspirators, his own House had described as a place where Charles
and Jacob could be attacked with advantage, and that, although much
debattirt about the matter, but nothing had been decided.

It may on first sight seem as if this confession with his statement that he assassination I
always hated, would be incompatible, but he settled here, by distinguishing , Which fooled many
of his contemporaries led astray. Nothing had been able to encourage him to throw in the food of the two
princes, poison or stab them in their sleep, but a to make unexpectedly attack on the royal bodyguards
surrounding cars, sword blows and to change gun shots and make it depend on whether you kill or
killed would be, this was in his eyes, a very loyal military operation. Ambush and surprise
attacks were among the ordinary incidents of a war. Every old soldier, Cavalier or Roundhead, had
been implicated in such enterprises. Feel the King the battle, he fell in honorable battle, and
not by hand of an assassin. Exactly the same reasoning established after the revolution Jacob
himself and his bravest and most devoted followers, a nefarious plot against the life of William
III. be justified. A squad Jacobite was sent to attack the Prince of Orange in his winter quarters.
The Secret Sense of this very innocuous-sounding phrase was that the prince on the way from Richmond
to Kensington's throat should be cut off. It may seem remarkable, that such fallacies, the yeast
of Jesuit casuistry, have been able men of heroic character, both Whigs than Tories, to be
led to commit a crime, which the divine and human laws especially the stamp of infamy pressed
have. But no sophistry is so clumsy that he does not minds, which blinded by party spirit are deluded,
could [34].

Argyle, which Rumbold survived several hours, gave shortly before his death, a testimony for the
virtues of the gallant Englishman. "Poor Rumbold was a great support and a good man, and he
is Christian died. "[35]

[Note 34: + Wodrow III. IX. 10 +; Western Martyrology + +; + Barnet, I. 633 +, + Fox's History, Appendix
IV + I am unable to no other than the manner indicated in the text Rumbold's Assurance that he had
never entertained the thought of a murder with his confession that he himself to his house as a known
attack on the royal brothers have fit in to bring harmony.

The distinction, which I attribute to him, was also made by a Ryehouseverschwornen Andren,
the Captain Walcot, also a former soldier of the Republic. At Walcot's interrogation asked the
witness: "You have admitted Captain, that you were one of those who
against the Garden should fight.

    "-" For what reason did he want, but the King not to kill? "then
    asked the Chief Justice Pemberton. "He said," replied West, "it
    was wicked, a defenseless to kill people, and that he could
    not. "]
    
    [Note 35: + Wodrow III. IX. 9 +]
    
    [Ayloffe's death.] Ayloffe was no less a defiance of death as Argyle
    and Rumbold, only was an end to pious minds not as edifying as theirs.
    Although political sympathy it attracted to the Puritans, so he
    had no sympathy for them, and religious was in their eyes for a
    little better than an atheist. He belonged to that part of the Whigs,
    of his models rather among the patriots of Greece and Rome, as the
    prophets and judges of Israel was looking for. He was captured
    and taken to Glasgow.

    Attempted here he, to eviscerate with a small penknife, but although
he was more wounds taught, but none of them was fatal, and he still
had strength enough to travel to London unbearable.

He was placed before the Privy Council and the King put on trial and was but high-minded than
that he should have been saved through denounce the other. The Whigs it was said that the king had
said to him: "You thätet better if your open to If you were me, Mr. Ayloffe;. Do you know
that it is in my power to pardon you, "The Prisoner should then be gloomy silence broken and have
responded. "In your power it may be, but it is not in your character. "He was in conformity with
his earlier Ächtungsurtheils at the gate of the temple was executed, and died with stoic equanimity.
[36]

[Note 36: + Wade's Narrative, Harl. MS. 6845 +; + Burnet I. 634 +; Citters's dispatch of 30 Oct.
(9th Nov) 1685; + Luttrell's Diary + of the same date.]

[Devastation of Argyleshire.] Meanwhile, the winners exercised a ruthless revenge on the People
of Argyleshire. Athol Campbell left many hanging without judicial inquiry and only with difficulty
that he was prevented by the Privy Council, to sacrifice even more lives. Thirty miles in circumference
of Inverary devastated the country. Houses were set on fire, Millstones
crushed, fruit trees cut down and burned even the same rootstock.

    The networks and Fischerböte, the only means by which many of
    the coastal people earned their livelihood were destroyed and more
    than three hundred rebels and malcontents transported to the colonies.

Many of them were condemned to mutilation also. On a single day average of the hangman of Edinburgh
thirty-five prisoner's ears from, a lot of women were sent across the Atlantic, after being
with a had red-hot iron branded on the cheek. [37] It even went with the plan in order of to
ask the parliament an act by which the name of Campbell should be banned, eighty years earlier
as the name MacGregor was proscribed.

Argyle's company had made in the south of the island little attention. The news of his Landing came
just before the meeting of the British Parliament in London. The King mentioned the matter
in the throne speech, and the houses assured him that they face every Enemy would stand by
him. More was not required of them. About Scotland they had no violence, and war, the scene
of so far and the output of almost the start was easy to foresee, in London attracted little
interest.

[Note 37: + Wodrow III. IX. 4 +, and + III. IX. 10 + Wodrow performs the acts of the privy council,
the names of all the Prisoners, which transported, mutilated or branded were.]

[Unsuccessful attempts to prevent Monmouth's departure from Holland.] But a week before the
eventual dispersal of Argyle's army was shattered by the news all over England, that a far
more suitable to-do man in fear of hostile intent on the coast landed
was.

    The refugees had agreed previously that Monmouth six days after
    departure the subdivision of Holland should get under sail.
    He probably had his expedition therefore postponed a short time, hoping
    that once the war broke out in the Highlands, Most troops will be
sent to the north and he therefore no armed for his reception force
would find.

When he finally wanted to sail, the wind was unfavorable and become violent.

While his small fleet in the Texel was driven back and forth, were the Dutch authorities with
each other in battle. On one side were the States General and the Prince of Orange, on the
other the City Council and the Admiralty of Amsterdam.

Skelton had given the States General a catalog of those refugees whose stay in the United Provinces
concerns inspired his master. The States-General, which urgently wanted to meet every reasonable
request of Jacob, sent copies of the list to the provincial authorities,
and these again the Municipalbehörden.

All the city magistrates was told that they should take the necessary measures to outlaw the Whigs
to avoid causing alarm to the English government. In general, these commands Result achieved, and
particularly in Rotterdam, where was the influence of Wilhelm's all
wealthy, was an activity developed, which led to Jacob grateful recognition.

Solo Amsterdam was the headquarters of the emigrants, and the government office of that city did not
want See, hear nothing and know nothing. The mayor, who even in daily circulation Ferguson was
reported to the Hague, that he was not one of the refugees know to find, and the federal government
had to be satisfied with this excuse. In Reality, however, the English exiles in Amsterdam and were
well known on the streets just stared, as if they were Chinese. [38]

A few days later, Skelton received his court ordered to apply for so that eligible the dangers
which threatened the throne of his master, the three under the United Provinces standing Scottish
regiments returned immediately to the UK should be. He turned to the Prince of Orange, and the latter
took over the execution this matter, predicted, however, that Amsterdam would make some trouble.
His apprehension proved to be founded. The deputies of Amsterdam refused to consent and succeeded
to bring about a delay, but the question was not one of those respect of which the Constitution
of the Republic of achieving a single city could prevent the desire of the majority. Wilhelm's
influence prevailed, and the troops were embarked with great haste. [39]

At the same time, Skelton tried, but with less insight and moderation of the hold back the refugees
equipped ships. He complained in strong terms at the Admiralty of Amsterdam. The negligence
of the Authority, he said, had been a Horde of rebels put in a position to make an inroad in the
UK, a second such errors is to be excused by nothing, and he demanded to peremptory certainty
that a large ship, the "Heroes Bergh," should be retained. This ship was allegedly to the Canary Islands
determined, whereas it actually equipped of Monmouth was led twenty-six had loaded guns and weapons
and ammunition. The Admiralty Amsterdam replied that the freedom of trade and navigation of
minor reasons for unrestricted and the "Heroes Bergh," held back, not without order of the States
could be.

Skelton, whose immutable nature seems to have been, at all wrong End attack, turned now to the
States General, and issued the necessary orders this. Now, however, was before the Amsterdam Admiralty,
it was not a sufficient naval power in the Texel, to get such a large ship, such as possession
of "Heroes Bergh," can, and let Monmouth freely sail. [40]

The weather was bad, the journey long and several English warships crossed the canal. But Monmouth
escaped the seas and the enemy.
 When Raven had put on the logs and dusted himself off, he found himself
at a loss. How should he begin? Was Tenney, with his catamount yells and his axe, to be ignored
altogether, or should he reassure her by telling her the man had gone? But she herself began.

"I suppose," she said, in the eloquent low voice that seemed to make the smallest word significant,
"you think it's funny."

Raven knew what sense the word was meant to convey.

"No," he said, "not in the least. It's pretty bad for you, though," he added gravely, on second
thought that he might.

She made a little gesture with her hand. It was a beautifully formed hand, but reddened with
work. The gesture was as if she threw something away.

"He won't hurt me," she said.

"No," Raven returned, "I should hope not."

He drew up a chair to the hearth and was about to take it when she spoke again. The blood ran
into her cheeks, as she did it, and she put her request with difficulty. It seemed to Raven
that she was suddenly engulfed in shame.

"Should you just as soon," she asked, "take the key inside an' lock the door?"

She put it humbly, and Raven rose at once.

"Of course," he said. "Good idea."

He locked the door and came back to his chair and she began, never omitting to share her attention
with the child:

"I know who you be. It's too bad this has come upon you. I'll have to ask you not to let it
go any further."

Raven was about to assure her that nothing had come upon him, and then he bethought himself
that a great deal had. She had looked to him like the Mother of Sorrows and, though the shock
of that vision was over, she seemed to him now scarcely less touching in her beautiful maternity
and her undefended state. So he only glanced at her and said gravely:

"Nobody will know anything about it from me. After all"--he was bound to reassure her if he
could--"I've nothing to tell."

Her face flashed into an intensity of revolt against any subterfuge, the matter was so terrible.

"Why, yes, you have," said she. "Isr'el Tenney chased his woman up into the woods with an axe.
An' you heard him yellin' after her. That's God's truth."

Raven felt rising in him the rage of the natural man, a passion of protection for the woman
who is invincibly beautiful yet physically weak.

"An'," she went on, "you might ha' seen him out there, axe an' all."

"Oh," said Raven, as if it were of no great account, "I did see him."

"O my soul!" she breathed. "You see him? I'm glad you come in. He might ha' asked you if you'd
seen me."

"He did."

This was a new terror and she was undone.

"How'd you do it?" she asked breathlessly. "You must ha' put it better'n I could or he'd be
here now."

"I didn't 'put it,'" said Raven, easily. "I lied, and he went off down the hill."

Extravagant as it seemed, he did get an impression, like a flash, that she was disappointed
in him because he had lied. But this was no time for casuistry. There were steps to be taken.

"You won't go back to him," he said, and said it definitively as if it were a matter he had
thought out, said it like a command.

She stared at him.

"Not go back to him?" she repeated. "Why, I've got to go back to him. I've got to go home.
Where do you expect I'm goin', if I don't go home?"

"Haven't you any people?" Raven asked her. "Can't you go to them?"

She laughed a little, softly, showing fine white teeth. The spell of her beauty was moving
to him. He might never, he thought, have noticed her at all in other circumstances, if he had
not seen her there in the woods and felt her need knock at his heart with the imperative summons
of the outraged maternal. Was this the feeling rising in him that had made his mother's servitude
to his father so sickening in those years gone by? Was the old string still throbbing? Did
it need but a woman's hand to play upon it? And yet must he not have noted her, wherever they
had met? Would not any man?

"I've got four brothers," she said. "They'd laugh at me. They'd tell me I'd married well an'
got a better home than any of them could scrape together if they begun at the beginnin' an'
lived their lives over. There's nothin' in Isr'el Tenney to be afraid of, they'd tell me. And
there ain't--for them."

"No," said Raven quietly. He felt an intense desire to feel his way, make no mistakes, run
no risk of shutting off her confidence. "It's a different thing for you."

Now she turned her face more fully upon him, in a challenging surprise.

"Why," she said, "I ain't afraid--except for him."

By the smallest motion of her hand she indicated the child, who was now, in sudden sleepiness,
toppling back against the wall.

"Put him up here," said Raven, indicating the couch.

He opened the folded rug and held it until she had disposed the little lax figure among the
pillows. Like any man, the natural merits instill an
interest in his aristocratic descent, he was accustomed to the benefits to commemorate his life and
achievements of the ancestors to their agreement, their satisfaction the assurance of its respect
in the spirit of necessity. He thought of her even now and here, embroiled in a so improper
experience, conceived in such exotic excesses of Feeling, thought of the entertainment full
rigor of honest manliness of their nature and a sad smile. What would they say? But, of course,
what they had to all his Life said it was from her own departed so long as the degeneration
in this life to spell of art, which he himself once in the civil sense of the Fathers, mocking
youth insights had had announced theirs and basically was something like that! He had also served
he practiced hard in farming, he had been a soldier and warrior, like many of them - because the
art was a war, a grueling fight, not for what we today was good for a long time. A life of self-conquest
and of the same, a harsh, unwavering and abstemious life he designed a symbol for a delicate
and modern heroism had - well, he was allowed to it male, it could be called brave, and it
seemed to him that Be the Eros, mastered on him, such a life in any way particularly satisfactory
and tilted. Had he not the bravest people stood in excellent standing, yes, it did not mean
that he has flourished through bravery in their cities? Many war heroes the past had taken his
yoke willingly, because no degradation was that the God imposed, and actions that would be as
characteristics of cowardice have been fiercely when on the other Purposes would happen sake: his
knees, oaths, entreaties and slavish nature, Such a credit to the lovers not to shame, but rather,
he earned praise for yet.

Such was the deluded determined mindset, he sought to rely to maintain
his dignity.

But at the same time he turned constantly feel a border and stubborn attention to the dirty
Operations in the interior of Venice to the adventure of the external world, with that of his
heart dark flowed together and fed his passion with indefinite, lawless hopes. Hell-bent on
new and safe on the status or progress to learn of the evil, ransacked it in the coffee houses
of the city's native leaves, as they read from the table in the lobby had disappeared for several days.
Assertions and retractions changed it. The number morbidity, the mortality should be based on twenty
to forty, even a hundred or more amount, and immediately afterwards was any occurrence of the
disease if not outright denied, yet in a completely isolated from the outside is imported
cases returned. Warning concerns Protests against the dangerous game of bulbous authorities were scattered.
Certainty was not to acquire.

Nevertheless, the loneliness of a special entitlements was aware,
some of the mystery to have and, however impossible, he found a strange
satisfaction in it, with the knowing captious Address issues and,
allied to silence an explicit lie to compel.

One day at breakfast in the spacious dining room he placed the Sun CEO to task those small, quiet
people appearing in the French frock coat, which is overseeing and greeting moving between the diners
and to Aschenbach's table to some Plauderworten Halted. Why because actually, the guest asked in
casual and casual way, why in the world, we disinfect Venice for some time - "It is," said
Schleicher, "a measure of the police determined, all sorts of inconveniences or disruptions of public health,
which generated by the brooding and exceptionally warm weather want to be, duly and in time
to keep .«--» disregard the police are "praise," replied Aschenbach, and after some exchange
of meteorological observations are recommended to the manager.

Same day or the evening after dinner was done, it is that a small band of street singers from
the city, was heard in the front yard of the inn. They stood, two men and two Women, at the iron pole
of an arc lamp and turned their faces to the white-lit up large terrace,
where the spa company in the coffee and cool drinks, the popular Performance
had fallen.

The hotel staff, elevator boys, waiters and employees of the Office, was listening to the doors
to the hall. The Russian family, eagerly and exactly in the enjoyment, had to be put down cane
chairs in the garden to the perpetrator to be closer, and sat there, grateful in a semicircle.
Behind the rule, in turbanartigem headscarf, stood their old slave.

Mandolin, guitar, harmonica and violin quinkelierende were in the hands of the beggar's virtuoso
in activity. With instrumental passages alternated vocals, as for the younger the women, sharp
and squeaky of voice, with the sweet falsetto tenor one longing love duet teamed. But when the
real talent and head of the union showed unequivocally the other
of the men, owner of the guitar and the character a Art baritone buffo,
almost without a voice there, but gifted mimic and remarkably funny
Energy.

He often broke up, his big instrument in the arm, away from the group of other and entered acting against
the ramp, where his pranks with encouraging laughter rewarded. In particular, the Russians, in
their ground floor showed himself delighted with as much southern Mobility and encouraged
him with applause and shouts, always bold and safe off to go out.

Aschenbach was sitting on the balcony sometimes and cooled his lips with a mixture of pomegranate
juice and soda, the ruby ​​flashed before him in the glass. His nerves took dudelnden sounds
the vulgar and languid melodies eagerly, for the passion paralyzes the picky Makes sense and in
all seriousness with a stimulus, which take up the sobriety humorous or would deny indignantly.
His features were fixed through the cracks of a juggler and has become painful sprained smile.
He sat casually, during an extreme Attention to his inner-stressed,
for six paces from him Tadzio was leaning against the stone railing.

He stood there in the white belt tightening, he put the main meal times, in the inevitable innate grace
and crossed, the left forearm on the sill, his feet, the right Hand in supporting the hip, and
looked with an expression that hardly a smile, only a distant curiosity, a polite answer was,
down to the storytellers. Sometimes taught He just up and moved by the expanded chest, with
a beautiful movement of both arms the white coat with the leather
belt down.

Sometimes, however, and saw the aging it in triumph, with a staggering one's reason and with horror, he
turned reluctantly and gentle or fast and suddenly, as if to a surprise attack, the head of the
left shoulder against the place of his lover. It was not his eyes, because a shameful concerns
forced the confused, anxious to keep his eyes in check. In the ground the terrace were the women who
sheltered Tadzio, and it had come to mean that the love had become afraid and suspicious of being
conspicuous. Yes, with a kind of numbness he had several times on the beach, in the lobby and on
the Piazza San Marco to notice had that one Tadzio from his presence called back to keep him
away from it was considered - and a terrible insult to gather from where his pride in unprecedented
Wall tortures, and which to reject his conscience prevented him.

Meanwhile the guitarist started his own company a solo, a mehrstrophigen, just in Italy thriving popular
song, whose refrain of his company every time remembered with song and all the music stuff
and he became a vivid and dramatic way to bring lecture knew. Slender build and thin face,
and also was emaciated, He separated from his family, the shabby felt in the neck, so that a
bead of his red Hair under the brim gushed, in an attitude of cheeky bravado on the gravel and
flung Scholars for creators of the strings in haunting chant his
jokes up to the terrace, while before production effort, the swollen
veins on his forehead.

He did not seem Venetian Shock, but the breed of the Neapolitan comic, half-pimp, half comedian,
brutal and reckless, dangerous and entertaining. His song, only the silly wording after, won
in his mouth by his facial expressions, his body movements, his way of hinting to blink and to
play the slippery tongue in her mouth, something ambiguous, vague Objectionable. The soft collar
of the sports shirt he wore to the way urban clothing, grew out of his skinny neck with a
strikingly large and naked acting Adam's apple. His pale, stumpfnäsiges face, hardly from the beardless
trains close to his age had seemed plowed by grimaces and vice, and strangely did the grin of
his mobile Mouth, the two grooves fit, the defiant, domineering, almost between his wild red Eyebrows
were. But what of the lonely deep mindfulness actually turned on him, was the Note that the suspicious
figure lead to their own atmosphere with him suspicious appeared. Each time, namely, when
the chorus began again, the singer went on to faxes greeting and shaking hands around a grotesque
march, which he immediately below Aschenbach Place over lead, and every time that happened was blowing,
from his clothes, his body basis, a strong smell of carbolic fumes up to the terrace.

After couplet ended, he began to collect money. He began with the Russians who might willingly did
donate, and then came up the steps. So he behaved insolently in the production, so humble,
he showed up here. Katzbuckelnd under scratch feet he slipped between the Round tables, and
a smile treacherous servility bared his strong teeth, while but still the two grooves were menacingly
between his red eyebrows. It looked the strange, his maintenance einsammelnde beings with curiosity
and some disgust, threw it with coins in his fingertips felt and was careful not to touch him.
The repeal of the physical distance between the actors and creates decent, and had the pleasure
might be, always a certain embarrassment. He felt it and was looking through flattery to apologize.
He came to Aschenbach, and with it the smell, about which no one
is around seemed to have second thoughts.

"Listen," said the solitary muffled and almost mechanically. "They Venice disinfected. Why "-
The Joker replied hoarsely, "because of the police! The rule is, my Lord, with such Heat and Scirocco.
The Scirocco suppressed. He is not conducive to health ... "He said in wonder as the fact that
one could ask like, and demonstrated with the flat Hand how much the press Scirocco .-- So it's
no evil in Venice? "Said Aschenbach very low and between the teeth .-- The muscular lines of
the buffoon fell into a grimace comical perplexity. "An evil? But what kind of evil? The Scirocco
is an evil? May our police is an evil? You jest! An evil! Why not indeed! Preventive Measure,
you understand! A police order against the effects of the oppressive Weather ... "He gestured
.--"

It's good, "Aschenbach said again briefly and quietly, was quickly an unduly important piece of
money falling into the hat. Then he waved to the people go with the eyes. He obeyed, smiling, taking
bows, but he has not had reached the stairs, as two hotel employees threw themselves on him
and him, their faces close to his, took in a whispered cross-examination. He shrugged his shoulders,
he gave Protestations, he vowed to have been concealed, we saw it. Released, he returned to
back of the garden, and, after a brief appointment with his family under the arc lamp, He came to
a word of thanks and farewell songs yet again.

It was a song to never have heard the solitary not remember, a bolder Schlager unintelligible
dialect and equipped with a chorus of laughter, in which the gang regularly occurred with laughter.
Heard it here both the words as well as monitoring the instruments on, and nothing left but a rhythmic
kind of child, but very naturally treated laugh, especially the soloist with great talent
into remarkably Liveliness make knew. It was reconstituted in artistic distance between him
and the gentlemen all his boldness rediscovered his art and shameless laughter sent up to
the terrace, was derisive laughter. Even towards the end of the articulated part the verse
he appeared with an irresistible tickle fight. He sobbed, his voice fluctuated, he pressed
his hand against his mouth, he twisted his shoulders, and at a given
moment broke down crying and blurted the irrepressible laugh out of
him, with such truth that it seemed contagious and the audience were
told that even on the terrace a non-objective and only of themselves
living serenity spread.

But this just seemed the singer to double the hilarity. He bent his knees, he beat his thighs,
he held his Pages, he wanted to throw out, he no longer laughed, he cried, and he pointed with
his finger up, there was nothing funnier than laughing the society up there, and finally then everyone
laughed in the garden and on the porch, to the waiters, elevator boys and domestic servants in
the doors.

Aschenbach rested not in the chair, he sat erect such attempts by the defense or the run. But woven
into the laughter, the smell heraufwehende Hospital and the proximity of the beautiful him
to a dream spell of unbreakable and inescapable embrace his head, his sense held. In the general
movement and distraction, he dared to hinüberzublicken Tadzio, and as he did, he might notice that
the Fair, in reply, his gaze also remained seriously, just as he directed behavior and face
after the other and as a virtue the general feeling anything about him because of that eluded her.
This child and relationship-full Obedience was something so disarming, overwhelming, that the
gray-haired man with difficulty contained to hide his face in his hands. Also, it had seemed
to him that meant Tadzio occasional sit up and sigh a sigh, a tightness of the chest. "He is
sickly, he probably will not" grow old, he thought again of those with objectivity, to which
noise and longing sometimes emancipated strange, and pure at the same time care with an extravagant
satisfaction filled his heart.

The Venetians had meanwhile finished and departed. Applause accompanied them, and their leader did
not fail to adorn his departure with more jokes. Scratching his feet, his kisses were laughed
at, and he therefore doubled. As his men were already out, he did not, 'm running backward when
he sensitive to a lamp post and slipped seemingly bent with pain to the gate. Here at last he
suddenly threw off the mask of the comic pitch bird taught , yes surged to elastic bared, the guests out
on the terrace cheeky tongue and slipped into darkness. The bathing company lost; Tadzio was
not long ago on the balustrade. But the solitary man sat a long time to surprise the waiter
in the rest his pomegranate drink at his table. The night waned, the time fell apart. In Home
of his parents many years ago, there had been an hourglass, - he saw the frail and significant little device
all at once, as it stood before him. Silent and ran fine the rust-colored sand through the glass frames,
and he in the upper cavity was running low, there was a small, rushing
vortex formed.

On the following day, afternoon, did the stubbornly a new step to temptation the outside world
and this time with all possible results. He came from the fact Mark's Square in the situated therein
British Travel Bureau, and after he changed some money at the box office advised, it with an
air of suspicious strangers to the Clerk's employees using them fatal question. It was a woolly-dressed
Briton, still young, with split-hair in the middle, close to each other set eyes and from
that set loyalty of the essence, in the mischievous nimble South so strange, so strange happened
to sound. He began: "No reason to worry, sir. A measure without serious meaning. Such arrangements
are often made to harmful prevent effects of heat and Scirocco ... "But his blue eyes hit, he met
the gaze of strangers, a tired and slightly sad look that with mild Contempt was directed at
his lips. As the Englishman blushed. "This is," he added softly and continued in some movement,
the official statement, the one to exist here "for good is.

I will tell you that something else is behind it. "And then he said in his honest and comfortable
telling the truth.

For several years now, the Indian cholera had an increased tendency to spread and walk down
to the day. Generated from the warm swamps of the Ganges Delta has gone up, mephitic the breath of
those lush, disabled, people shunned primitive world and island wilderness cowering in the
bamboo thickets of the Tiger, had the disease all over Hindustan, and constantly unusually fierce
raged, had east to China, west to Afghanistan and Persia spread and, following the main roads
of the caravan traffic, its horrors to Astrakhan, even taken to Moscow. But while Europe trembled
like the ghost from there land and maintain its collection, was kidnapped by Syrian merchantmen
across the sea, appeared almost simultaneously in several Mediterranean ports, had to be Toulon and
Malaga Head high, several times in Palermo and Naples showed his mask and looked all over Calabria
and do not differ Puglia. The north of the peninsula had been spared. However, in mid-May of
this year was found at Venice on the same day the terrible Vibrios
in the gaunt, blackened corpse of a sailor and a servant Green goods
dealer.

The cases were kept secret. But after a week it was their ten, there were twenty, thirty, and
although in different neighborhoods. A man from the Austrian Province, stayed at his pleasure a
few days in Venice, died in his home town returned under unambiguous signs, and so it happened that
the first rumors of the Visitation of the lagoon city in German dailies arrived.

He had a boldly drawn line of profile, hair black and glossy and, as Raven saw with distaste,
rather long under his hat, vertical lines marking his cheeks, lines deeper than seemed justified
by his age, and, as he had noted before, his eyes were also black with a spark in them. What
was the spark? It was, Raven concluded again, in this quick scrutiny, like that in the eyes
of inventors and visionaries. He wore clothes so threadbare that it seemed as if he must have
been cold. But they were patched with a scrupulous nicety that made some revulsion in Raven
rise up and dramatically spur him to a new resentment. She had patched them. Her faithful needle
had spent its art on this murderer of her peace. He had reached the woodpile now and Tenney
came a step forward.

"Great woodpile you've got here," said Raven.

Tenney put out his hand and rested it on one of the sticks. He might have been caressing a pet dog.

"Stove wood length," he said briefly. Then he seemed to feel some curiosity over being sought
out after their meeting on the rise and asked: "D'you find your knife?"

"Why, yes," said Raven. "Didn't you see me hold it up to you?"

Tenney nodded, frowning. He seemed to conclude he was giving himself away, showing more interest
in the stranger than the stranger had in any way earned. But he asked another question. It
leaped from him. He had to ask it.

"D'you see anybody up round there after I come down?"

Raven shook his head, looking, he hoped, vague.

"I came down myself," he said. "I had to talk with Jerry about his thinning out."

The eagerness faded from Tenney's face.

"I didn't see Jerry up there this mornin'," he volunteered, in an indifferent contribution
toward the talk.

"No," said Raven. "You won't see him up there at all after this--for a spell, that is. I write,
you know, books. I like to go up to the hut to work. Soon after the Restoration tried Talbot, be acquired
through an even more shameful service the favor of the royal family. It took a pretext to justify
the Duke of York so that he vows broke through which he had obtained from Anna Hyde the highest
proof of feminine love. Talbot undertook in connection with some of his dissolute companions,
such Pretext to deliver. It was agreed that the young lady as a creature without virtue, shame
and honor to represent a long and tender novel of secret meetings and Favors to invent. Talbot
told specifically how he at one of his secret Visits had been so unhappy that Dintenfass of the
Registrar on a pile of papers pour and how cleverly they have prevented the discovery of the fact
that the blame pushed to the accident on their monkeys. These stories, which, even if it was
true would only have to utter the most ordinary people can come, were pure inventions. Talbot
was soon forced to admit this, and he did so without a blush. The maligned Dame was Duchess
of York. If her husband a truly honest and honorable Man was, he would the villains who had slandered,
with indignation and contempt have banished from his presence. But it was a characteristic peculiarity
of James that he even a very shameful and vile act did not find objectionable when used in
the intention was committed to win his favor. Talbot still had access to court appeared daily with
brazen forehead before the princess, he had wanted to ruin and soon received the lucrative post
of main coupler of her husband. Not long after White Hall was suddenly startled by the news
that Dick Talbot, as he usually was called, had forged a plan to assassinate the Duke of Ormond.
The Bravo was sent to the Tower, but after a few days, he strutted back into the galleries carried
around and note between his master and the most shameless maid of honor. In vain grizzled and wise
counselor invaded the royal brothers, that vile People do not favor, the only recommendation
to be engaging appearance and his good taste in clothes was, Talbot was not only welcome in
the palace when the bottle or making the rounds of the dice, but he was alert and in state affairs
belongs. He played the role of an Irish patriot and defended with great insolence and sometimes
with success the cause of his countrymen, whose assets had been confiscated, but could not always
pay his servants, and partly acquired through trade with its influence, partly through the
game, partly by procuring a fortune of three thousand Pound annual income. For under the outer notes
of levity, the waste, the most excessive carelessness and audacity, he was the smartest man and cheaper,
the could give it. Now he was no longer young and lost with severe physical suffering the excesses
of his youth, but neither age nor disease had a significant Change in his character and his
manners produced. Whenever he opened his mouth, raged, cursed and swore he was still furious
with such vehemence that casual observer him as the most unruly rake. The large crowd did not understand
that a man who even in the fasting state, boastful and furious end to employers than others in
the Drunkenness, and who seemed to be completely unable to hide any emotion or keep a secret, in
fact a cold-hearted, far-sighted and wohlberechnender Minions could be. However, Talbot was
one such person. His hypocrisy was far higher and rarer species than those which had florirt
in Barebone's Parliament. For not one who is a consummate hypocrite, his viciousness behind a
dummy Goodness knows to hide, but he who the vice that he is not afraid of open to contribute
to the show, as larvae used to disguise darker and more remunerative vices what to hide in
his interest.

When Talbot was charged by James Earl of Tyrconnel, he had during the nine months between the death of Karl's
and the beginning of Lord Clarendon's government of the troops in Ireland commanded. When
the new Lord Lieutenant was in the process, from London to Dublin issued, the General from
Dublin to London was summoned. Dick Talbot had long been well known been all the way, he had
to be covered, and there were between Chester and the capital Guest house in which he would not
have had Handel. Wherever he went, he pressed the law to mock horse, swore on the cooks and postilions,
and led by his outrageous Rodomontaden almost casseroles.

The Reformation, he said to the people, everything was ruined, but it would have come back good
times, the Catholics would soon be back to normal and then the heretics should pay for everything.
So continually raging and blaspheming like a man possessed He came to the court. [52] As soon
as he arrived, he allied himself most closely with Castel Maine, Dover and Alde Ville. People shouted
unanimously for war against the Church and the State Constitution. They said their commander, that
he does his religion and the dignity of his crown was guilty, by the cries of the heretical
demagogues not to let them vex and Parliament at the outset to imply that he intended to stay despite
the opposition of the Lord effect and the opposition nothing else will, as to make him a hard
master.

[Note 52: Mémoires de Grammont + +, + Life of Edward, Earl of Clarendon +; correspondence of Henry
Earl of Clarendon to several places, especially the letter of 29 Dec. 1685, Sheridan Mspte. among the Stuart
papers, Ellis's correspondence of 12 Jan. 1686.]

[Disposition of the foreign ambassadors.] Each of the parties, in which the Court was split, was
eager foreign allies.

    The ambassadors of Spain, the German Empire and the States-General
    were now just trying so diligently to support Rochester, as
    previously Halifax had supported. Barillon offered his influence
    in the opposite direction on, and he was in it from a standing
    in the rank below it, in his talents but far superior Andren French
agent support: from Bonrepaux.

Barillon was not without diplomatic Ability and possessed a high degree the kindness and the
fine education, through the the then French nobility distinguished. But his mind was the requirements
his important post not equal. He had become phlegmatic and comfortable, loved social Amusements
and pleasures of the table over the affairs and development at major events usually only after
a vigorous activity when it admonitions and self referrals from Versailles had received [53]. Bonrepaux
had the prudence and activity, which he shown as secretary of the Navy Board, soared out of the darkness
and he was to learn the secrets of the trade policy. At the end of 1685 he was with several
special assignments of high importance to London sent. It should have a Commercial contract
negotiations should determine the condition of the English fleets and shipyards and report on, and
finally the Huguenot refugees, of which it was assumed they would be shortages and exile have
become so tame that it almost every condition of Reconciliation would be grateful for to make
some suggestions. The new ambassador was plebeian origin, his form was like a dwarf, his face
and his ridiculously ugly Gascon dialect of his home, but his bright mind, his rare insight and
his witty spirit enabled him quite excellent for his post. Despite its lower Origin, and his
repulsive appearance, he was soon to be a highly agreeable companion and skilled diplomat
known. While he joked with the Duchess of Mazarin, with Waller St. Evremond and discussed scientific
issues and corresponded with La Fontaine knew He managed to gain an accurate knowledge of the
English national affairs. His skill in naval affairs recommended him to James, who for many years
the business of the Admiralty much attention had turned to this business and so well understood
as it ever was able to understand something. They talked every day about the state of open Ships
and the wharf. The result of this intercourse was, as it was to be expected, that the wise and
vigilant Frenchman Jacob's skills and character despise thoroughly learned. He said the world had
overestimated his Britannic Majesty as much as they possess less formal and more virtues than Karl.
[54]

Although the two envoys of Louis the same purpose pursued, so they beat it wisely different routes. They
were divided into the yard; Bonrepaux wrong mainly with Rochester and its surroundings, Barillon
was especially with the opposite party name. The result was that they sometimes the same event by
different Aspects considered. The best clues that it gives about the quarrel, which White
Hall then moved to be found in their despatches.

[Note 53: See his later correspondence in several Points; St. Evremond ditto; the letters of
Madame de Sevigne to Beginning of 1689.

Also see the Instructions for you Tallard after the Peace of Ryswick, in the French Archives.]

[Note
54: St. Simon's memoirs, 1697, 1719; Evremond St., La Fontaine; Bonrepaux to Seignelay 28 Jan (February
7) and 8 (18) Feb. 1686th]

[Cleavage between the Pope and the Society of Jesus.] As each of the two parties at court Jacob
had a support of foreign princes, so was each of them by a church
Authority, before James had great respect for support.

    The Pope was for a legal temperate and procedures and the institutions
    of his views were the apostolic nuncio and the Vicar. [55] On the
    other side was a body whose weight even the weight of the Tantamount
    papacy: the powerful Jesuit order.
    

    That on this occasion these two great spiritual forces, which once
    separated appeared to be connected, faced hostile, is a very important
    and remarkable Circumstance.

For a period of more than a thousand years, the regular clergy, the Mainstay of the Holy See have
been. This chair she had against episcopal interference protected and the protection granted to them
had they richly repaid. Without their efforts would be the bishop of Rome probably only the honorary
head of a great prelate aristocracy been. With the help of Benedictine Gregory VII was able, at
the same time, the Frankish to fight the Emperor and the secular priesthood. With the aid of
the Dominicans and the Franciscans Innocent III destroyed. the Albigensian
sectaries.

[Note 55: Adda, 16 (26) Nov. 7, (17) Dec. and 21 (31) Dec. 1685th Adda gives in these dispatches
are substantial grounds for a Comparison by abolishing the penal laws and maintaining the Oath.
He called the dispute with the parliament gran a + " Disgrazia "+, and implied repeatedly that the
King had by a constitutional due process for Catholics gain much may attempt, however, their situation
by illegal means to , Would bring great harm likely to improve on it.]

[The Jesuit Order.] Was in the sixteenth century, the papacy, the
then new and was more terrible dangers threatened than ever before,
saved by a new religious order, with the ardent enthusiasm met and
organized with extraordinary skill was.

    As the Jesuits to save the Papacy appeared, it was hovering in the
    greatest danger, but from that moment the tide turned lucky. Protestantism,
    which for a whole All people age had carried away with it was hampered
    in its progress, and driven back with rapidity from the foot
    of the Alps to the shores of the Baltic Sea. The order was still
    not a hundred years, so he had the whole world with memorials
    great deeds and suffering for faith fulfilled. No religious community
    was a List of eminent men have so many ways, no other had the field
of their activity expanded to such an extent and yet no one ever had
such a perfect unity of the Thought and action prevailed.

There was no area of ​​the globe, not a field of scientific or practical life, not related to
the Jesuits. They guided the decisions the Kings, they deciphered Latin inscriptions, they observed
the orbits of the satellites of Jupiter, they gave out whole libraries: controversy, casuistry,
history, books on Optics, alcäische Oden, expenses of the church fathers, Madrigals, catechisms
and level. The higher Education of youth was almost entirely in their hands, and was of them with
excellent Skill passed. They had just discovered the point up to which one with the spiritual
Education can go without fear of spiritual emancipation. Even their enemies had , Concede that
in the arts to lead the youthful mind, and not to make their Had the same. In addition, they
used with great zeal and success the Kanzelberedtsamkeit. With even greater zeal and even
greater successes but they were dedicated to the service of the confessional. By the whole Catholic
Europe, they were in possession of the secrets of every government and almost every upstanding
family. Among countless shapes, elegant gentlemen, as a simple Countrymen as a Puritan preacher and she
slipped from a Protestant country in the other. They migrated to countries, their research or
mercantile greed or had caused scientific curiosity ever a stranger. She was found in Mandarin
dress in Beijing as a warden of the observatory, we found them with a spade in his hand in Paraguay,
where they taught the savages in the rudiments of agriculture. But where they may be and what they
want to drive too, her spirit was always and everywhere the same: unlimited Devotion to the common
cause and unconditional obedience to the central government. None of them has or had chosen the
profession itself. Whether at the Jesuit the Arctic Circle or live under the equator, whether
he should spend his days giving the Vatican to arrange gems and comparing handwriting, or so,
the savages of the southern hemisphere ask that they do not want to eat each other, these were
the questions whose decision He left with deep humility others. They needed him in Lima, he swam with
the next fleet to the Atlantic oceans, it was used in Baghdad, he waded with the next caravan
through the sands of the desert. There was need of his services in a country where his life was more
uncertain than that of a wolf, where it was a crime to harbor him, and where in the public
squares plugged heads and members of his brothers told him what he had to expect, he went to meet
without complaint and without hesitation to his fate. This heroic spirit of sacrifice is not now
extinct. As in our day a new and terrible disease around the world made the rounds, as in several
large cities the fear of all the bonds that hold together a society torn apart, when the secular
clergy leave their flocks had not buy as medical minds with money was, and even the strongest
natural affections of love had given way to life, found to the Jesuits at the bedside, the
bishop and priest, doctor and nurse, father and Mother had left, down inclined to the festering
lips to the faint hint of to catch last confession and the passing penitent sinner the image of the
dying Redeemer hold until the last moment.

But with the Society of Jesus own admirable energy, unselfishness and Self-denial were big mistakes
mixed. It was, and not without reason, claims that the ardent public spirit of the Jesuits
indifferent to his rest, his freedom and made his life, he also just as indifferent to truth and
compassion do that no way it seems without permission if it could promote the interest of his religion,
and that he understood the interest in his religion too often the interests of his order. It was
claimed that his role in the most abominable intrigues and conspiracies, of which tells the story
to see clearly is that he, only in the attachment unchangeable in his society, in some countries,
the greatest enemy of freedom, in others the most dangerous enemy was the order. The great victory,
which he in won cause of the Church were to have boasted, in the opinion of many excellent
Members of this church more apparent than real. He had indeed with what looks wonderful Successful
effort to subjugate the world its laws, but as he had done this, he had also relaxed the laws
to fit the spirit of the world. Rather than strive to human nature on the high, marked by divine
teachings and divine example raising stage, he had this level decreased, until it is below
the average level human nature was. He boasted of masses of converts, which in the remote areas
of the East had been baptized, but it was reported that many of these
converts the facts, based on which the whole doctrine of the Gospel,
has been fraudulently concealed were and that others could provide
protection against persecution, that, before the pictures false gods
knelt down while they prayed in silence Paternoster and Ave Maria.

And such tricks should not have been applied only in heathen lands. It No wonder that people
of all classes, and especially the highest, to the confessional the Jesuit temple crowded,
for no one left that confessionals unsatisfied. Here Allen was the priest everything. He was
just only so much severity, so that the spiritual before his Tribunal knee ends were not driven
in a Dominican or Franciscan church. If he was a truly pious soul before him, he spoke in the
holy tone of the first Fathers of the Church, but at the very large part of the people who
have religion enough to they worry if they have done something bad, but not enough to avoid evil,
He followed a very different system. Since he could not freely speak of the debt, It was his
business to keep them from repentance. He had an inexhaustible Stock of painkillers for wounded
conscience. In the casuistic works that were written by his brothers and printed with the permission
of his superiors, were consolations for the sinners of each class. The bankrupts were taught
how he, without a could commit sin to conceal his assets from his creditors. The servant was taught how
he, without committing a sin, could go through with the silver-finished his master. The coupler
was assured that provide a Christian without guilt for a living could, by between a married woman
and her lovers letters and contracts followed. The proud and sensitive French nobleman, was a
decision to Favor of the duel reassured. Of a more vulgar and more in the dark creeping revenge
accustomed Italians learned to his delight, that he, without committing a crime, from the Ambushes
on his enemy could shoot. The fraud was allowed a margin that is large enough to destroy the whole
value of human testimony and human contracts. In fact, human society was only still together,
the life and property enjoyed only still some security, because the common sense of humanity
and the natural feeling the people held, to do what they after the assurances of the Society
of Jesus with good conscience could have done.

The character of this famous brothers was a strange mixture of good and evil and in this mixture
was the secret of their gigantic power. Such a power would merely Hypocrites as little as a strict
moralist can ever attain. She was only men to reach, for the pursuit of a truly great goal,
while impressed unconscionable in the Choice of means were.

Initially, the Jesuits have been obliged to obey peculiar to the Pope. It was not so much their
task was to suppress any outrage in the bosom of the Church, as fend off the attacks of their
declared enemies. Their doctrine was in the highest degree what this side of the Alps has been
called ultra-montane and departed from the doctrine of Bossuet as much as, how the teaching
of Luther. They condemned the Gallican liberties, the right öcumenischer Concile the supervision
of the Roman see and the right of bishops to independent Order from above. Lainez said in Trent
on behalf of the whole brotherhood, to the applause the creatures of Pius IV and the murmurs of
the French and Spanish prelates, that Christ have dominion over the faithful to the pope alone
transmitted, that only the pope all priestly authority was combined and that he only for the priests
and bishops could confer spiritual authority. [56] For many years, had the agreement between
the Popes and the Order persisted unabated. If this agreement at the time when Jacob II ascended
the throne, had not yet been broken, both the Jesuits as the Pope their influence in favor of
a moderate and constitutional policy faithful mobilized, it would the great revolution, which
in a short time the whole face of European Affairs changed, have probably not taken place. But
even before the mid-seventeenth Century was the proud of their service and their company might
be constructed of the yoke become tired. It was on a generation of Jesuits, the French prefer to call
the would accept as a member of the Roman court protection and management, and this mood did not win little
in strength, as Innocent XI. the papal throne.

The Jesuits were then embroiled in a bitter struggle against an enemy they had initially despised,
but was finally compelled to regard with respect and fear were. Just as they were on the summit
of happiness, they were by a handful of Opponents challenged, which, though exercised no influence
on the rulers of this world but were strong in religious faith and spiritual energy. There
followed a long, memorable and glorious struggle of the spirit against
the power.

The Jesuits called private offices, tribunals and universities to their assistance, and they
gave the cry heard. Port Royal appealed not for nothing at the hearts and the minds of millions.
The dictators of Christianity suddenly found themselves in the position of defendants. They were accused
of the scale of the Protestant morality have depressed systematically for the purpose, in
order to influence their own To increase this charge and was placed in a manner which at once the Attention
of the whole world captivated, as the chief prosecutor was Blaise Pascal.
 But always he
was a noble red man and one boy acted his despairing part, and the others hunted him across
the stones. In the game, he always escaped and "shinnied" up the cliff opposite, by fissures
the boys of every generation knew, and struck a pose among the evergreens above, whooping down
defiance.

Raven stopped there and gave a thought to the boy he had been, and then to Anne, who had once
taken the walk across lots with him, and who, when he told her how they used to play Moosewood,
insisted on crossing, though he had tried to dissuade her, noting her foolish shoes, and aware
that she had no adroitness of eye and muscle. But she had a will of steel in these matters,
as well as those of the spirit, and would not be prevailed on. Three of the daring leaps she
made from one stone to another and at the fourth she slipped and he caught and held her, the
delicate slenderness of her, in his arms. He had felt awkward merely and sorry for her, she
so overprized doing things superlatively well, and when they reached the bank she was flushed
and shaken, and again he was sorry, it seemed so slight a thing to care about. But as he looked
down there now he was thinking really about her he called "the woman" in his mind. She would
not slip. She was as perfectly adapted in every tempered muscle to the rough conditions of
natural life as the pioneer women who helped their men clear the wilderness and set hearthstones.
It darkened between the firs and they began to stir a little, as if a wind were coming up,
and he turned back home, again growing uneasy about her, shut up there with her tormentor and
walled about by the dark.

He had his supper early, and he did not again invite Charlotte and Jerry to eat with him. Now,
he felt, he should need all the solitude he could get to think out this thing he seemed to
have taken upon himself, and keep a grip on his anxiety. After supper he asked Charlotte for
blankets and a pillow. She did not look at him, but he was clearly aware that she was worried
and would not let him read it in her eyes.

"It's all right, Charlotte," he assured her. "I just want some things up there at the hut,
for the couch, that's all."

"You ain't goin' to sleep up there, be you?" she asked quietly. Charlotte, he knew, had felt
his mood. She saw he was on edge.

"No," he said, "I shall be right back. Only I want to get them up there. To-morrow I shall
be carrying books and things."

She got the blankets without a word, venturing only, as she gave them to him:

"Jerry'll be as mad as fire with me for not sendin' him up to lug 'em."

Raven smiled at her and went off with his load. He carried also his electric torch, and traversing
the dark between the moving trees, creaking now and complaining, at the door of the hut he
flashed on the light and lifted the stone. The key was there. That gave him a momentary relief.
She had understood and done her part toward his task of defending her. He went in, tossed the
things over a chair, and lighted one of the candles on the mantel. The hearth was cold and
he piled logs and kindling. Then he put the pillow in its place on the couch and spread the
blankets. That was to show her she was to make herself comfortable. The match-box he placed
on the mantel, where it seemed likely her hand would touch it, if she thought to feel there,
and beside it his torch. It might be a momentary defence against the impalpable terrors of
the night. But he was not sure she would feel any terrors, save of the defined and tangible.
That he considered absorbedly as he went down the path after placing the key under the stone.
It was not that she was insensitive. He felt in her the alert readiness of a perfectly acting
nervous system. It showed itself in her self-control, her readiness of courage, her persistent
calm. She would not thrill with apprehension over the tapping of those boughs against the walls:
only at a voice or a human tread.

When he went in at his own door Charlotte appeared, with a quick step, from the kitchen. She
was relieved, he saw. Dear Charlotte! she did not know how his anxieties were mounting, but
she did feel the uneasiness he had brought with him. He tried to throw her off the track of
her silent interrogations.

"I'm dog tired," he told her. "I believe I'll go to bed."

"That's right," said she. "Your fire's been blazed up quite a while."

"Don't you know," he called back to her from the stairs, "how we always sleep when we first
come? The sensation is the beginning and condition of the aesthetic
Pleasure and is only the basis of emotion, which is always a relationship and often the most complicated Situation
requires. needed to excite feelings it is not the art, a single Tone, a single color can do
that I said, both terms are interchanged arbitrarily but usually in older works, "sensation"
called what we call "feeling." Our So my feelings, those writers should excite the music and
worship with us in turn, Love, joy, sorrow meet.

Such a provision but, in truth, neither this nor any other art. Art has for the time being a beautiful
display. The institution, which is beautiful is not included, the feeling, [6] but the imagination,
as the activity of pure vision.

  
  [6] Hegel showed how the study of the "sensations" (after our terminology:
  the feelings), which gives an art, quite the Indeterminate stops
  and just from the actual concrete Content aside. "What is felt," he
  says, "remains shrouded in the most abstract form, individual subjectivity,
  and therefore are also the differences of feeling very abstract, no differences
  in Thing itself "(Aesthetics I, 42).

It is remarkable how the older musicians and aestheticians are only in the contrast of "feeling"
and "mind movement" as if there were not the main thing in the midst of this supposed dilemma. From
the imagination of the artist emerges from the piece of music for the imagination of the listener.
Course Imagination is the opposite of beauty is not just a look, but a look of understanding, Tues
ideas and judgments, the latter course, with such rapidity that the individual Operations we are
not conscious of, and creates the illusion that it be done immediately, depending upon when in fact
many of mediating mental processes. The word "intuition" transmission length of the visual
images corresponding to all the senses manifestations, also admirably the act of attentive listening,
which of course in a successive viewing of the Clay molds exist. The imagination is by no
means a closed area: the way they their spark of life from the sensations moved, it sends in
turn radii of their fast the activity of the mind and feelings.

These are the real opinion of the However beautiful border areas only.

In pure intuition, the listener enjoys the sounding piece of music, any material interest must be far from
him. Such is the tendency to let emotions cause in itself.

Exclusive Activity of the mind acts through the beautiful is logical rather than aesthetic,
a predominant Effect on the feeling is still of concern, namely just pathological.

All this developed in the general aesthetic is long, even for beauty all the arts. So treat
the music as an art, it must be the imagination and not the Feeling than the aesthetic authority
to recognize it. The modest premise seems therefore advisable, because in the important emphasis,
which tirelessly through the music achieved soothe the human passions
is passed, you can not, in fact often know whether the art of music
as a police, an educational or medical Measure is discussed.

The musicians are not as caught up in the error of all the arts equally the feelings to try
to vindicate, as it is rather peculiar, something specifically of
music .

  See The power and tendency to arouse any emotion in the listener, it
  was just what the Music from the other arts characterize [7].
  
  [7] Where "feeling" separated even by "sensation" was, as can order
  from a deeper entrance into the differences of the first so- be less
  talk, sensual and intellectual feelings chronic form of the mood
  of the acute emotion, passion and Passion, and the peculiar coloration
  of these as "pathos" the Greeks and "passio" of modern Latins were
more colorful Mixture leveled, and the music only testified that she
was especially the art of arousing feelings. Raven, seeing
that, wondered if the fellow could feel remorse, and was conscious of a lift in the cloud of
his own anxiety. Tenney, not waiting to be addressed, walked straight up to him. Think about a
ship ready for when the time draws near to deprive yourself to the criminal courts, which the gods
have imposed on Maorigashima and its inhabitants. Because you are righteous and honor the gods,
You shall know the hour of the court. If the face of the temple guard, as the statues at the entrance
of the temple stand, will be red, then ships you to sleep and do not delay, as long as keep their
faces white color, there is no danger! "

Pairuno thanked the gods for the revelation and asked them to give
his subjects known to be allowed on that could be converted, who it
may.

The gods granted the request and gave Pairuno the assurance that every one who is voluntarily
embark with him, would be spared and saved. Delighted was the ruler
back to his palace.

He let all the officials call and told them what his gods had revealed, and he gave orders to give
this to all the people known.

But the officials and the people laughed at the warning and mocked their prince, even a the officials
stole one night secretly to the temple and smeared the faces of the Statues with red clay.

As Pairuno this morning saw it, he believed the hour of the criminal court came and embarked
up to speed quickly with his family.

He urged the people to save up and asked him on the Ship to come.

  But all laughed at him and the scoffers, who in the night, the
  faces the statues had been defaced, confessed his crime a sneeringly,
  declaring that not the gods, but he had made the red color.
  But Pairuno replied gravely:

"The gods have not told me that they
own the white of the transform faces of the temple guards in red are,
but they just told me, when the face would be red, then The hour is
come!
Instead of being rebuffed by Raven's attitude, he seemed to be exhilarated. Raven concluded,
as he saw the light of a perhaps fanatical zeal playing over his face, that the fellow took
it for a challenge, an incentive to bring one more into the fold. It was something in the nature
of a dare.

When he went in, Charlotte was about her tasks at the kitchen stove. Although those properties only by means of art, and indeed a significant Art can
go to appearance, I call the method of the psychologist - to a greater Consideration - a trick,
because he is consistent so that in two directions: to one against the People he holds up a
distorting mirror and here by his passion, his feeling his art, his personality prevents to recognize
the arbitrariness in the distorted images, and after the other, against God, or, if you will,
to the creative principle by to reveal as a suffering, passionate taken people give up, and
at the same time it insists that he seeks in independent forms of justice and truth.

I am of course not by psychology as a science, which is a straight Thing and has to do with the psychology
of art have little or nothing. In art, it is not only an analytical method, but an empirical
higher order, not a discipline posed by reality, but a reality in itself. It obliges and connects the
artistic structure of the earth, gives the vision, the parable, which is pending, the even In
summary, condenses his unalterable law, mental application, changeful Lives and the credibility
which relies on the experience. The writer as a psychologist will but by the vision of psychology,
the likeness, which condenses the poem first . Generate He is the part more than the whole,
the small game more important than the abstract, and before he has come to the idea, he slackened
in the realities. The reality can to exhaust it, he knows it is always new, attractive, strange
and striking design, because it is his personal, his legacy, while the idea of ​​presenting
the divine, from the it is cut off.

Due to the extraordinary, magical, alluring talent as decided in itself
to shape reality, now is the humanity, society, or what one audience
calls across misled about the crimes committed treason.

And not just since yesterday.

With the entry of Christianity in the world has the spiritual and
moral individualization of mankind began.

The Christian core idea is actually the complete and voluntary Self-isolation of the individual
under any absence of social mission. In the spirit of the Gospel Being a Christian means standing alone
against God in the individual who will be redeemed, humanity redeemed. It was inevitable in such a
sublime idea driven to the extreme, that, in order to exert an effect had to be misunderstood, and
finally a Christian only meant: to be redeemed by the suffering of another, the fact that his teaching
the world-historical example given. This was Christianity to the social side utilized.

Raven had always been vaguely proud of him, and so, perhaps, had other Ravens, for Old Crow,
when he moved up here, had brought the sea-chest with him, and his own books also were stowed
away in it. Old Captain Raven's were entirely consistent with his profession--charts, a wonderful
flat volume full of the starry heavens and more enchanting to Raven than any modern astronomy;
but Old Crow's, in their diverse character, seemed to have been gathered together as it happened,
possibly as he came on them, in no sense an index of individual taste. There were poets (strange
company they made for one another!) Milton, Ossian, Byron, Thompson, Herrick, and the Essays
of Montaigne, the Confessions of Rousseau. Also, the Age of Reason, which, on the testimony
of uncut leaves, had not been read. And there was a worn, dog-eared Bible. Raven had never
wanted to appropriate the books so far as to set them with his own on the shelves. They seemed
to him, through their isolation, to keep something of the identity of Old Crow. He believed
Old Crow would like this. It was precious little earthly immortality the old chap had ever
got beyond the local derision, and if Raven could please him by so small a thing, he would.
He had them all out on chairs and sat on the floor beside the chest, looking them over idly
until it began to grow dark and, realizing how early it was, he glanced up at the windows and
saw the veil of a fine falling snow. He got up, left his books in disorder, and lighted the
lamp. The fire had been dying down and he kicked the sticks apart. It must die wholly so that
a fresh one would run no chance of catching the coals. Yet it was unlikely she would come to-night.
Tenney would be tired with his week's work.

And just as he was making himself reasons, in a mechanical way, while he put the room in order,
there was a knock, quick, imperative, the door was thrown open and there she was. 

"I think," he said, "that I have spoken clearly and distinctly, and you will certainly have
the goodness to repeat my words to the marshal. "

"I think I have understood your excellency statement is accurate and correct," said Mr. Salazar
y Mazarredo, "but I am confident that the Marshal put special value on would confirm my communications
with a reply of Your Excellency's own to see.

"

Again, just a few moments to Count Bismarck.

"You will understand," he said, "that a certain difficulty for me is to me on a matter which,
notice how I allowed myself, in my opinion, with do with the policy of Prussia and Germany has
nothing to express in a way which could be settled in my position but as a kind of official importance.
Anyway, I would consider the matter in all directions very carefully considered before I could answer
the letter of the marshal, and I must confess that I wish strongly the whole thing to stay completely
away for so long until the same about a clearly comprehensible form accept and direct way officielle
gets to me. I would under these circumstances, " he added, like, "do not point you to a longer
stay in Berlin and the Marshal ask me to leave an in-depth deliberation time. I am convinced that
the marshal of the reasons fully understand and accept is that I need to determine, my answer
still retain, the more so since in the personal trust relationships, in which you, sir, at any
rate are they entitled to your communications even completely replace
a direct response be replaced.

"

He bowed with an air which implied determined that the interview was
over.

Mr. Salazar y Mazarredo rose by noticeable on his face a visible disappointment was.

"I ask you again," said Count Bismarck, "to marshal the expression of my gratitude for his confidence
and the assurance of my sincere respect and devotion to convey.

I was pleased to welcome, "he added, with a mandatory civility," in have made your acquaintance on
this occasion. "

"Your Excellency will have nothing against it," said Mr. Salazar y Mazarredo, "that I steps
do, to inform me about the personal views of Prince Leopold.

"

"As the personal decision of the Prince, as I have already noted, primarily in consideration comes,
"Count Bismarck said coldly and calmly," so it seems to me in the nature of the matter to rest,
that you inform Irishmen in this direction down. Besides, "he added," it is quite and even,
as it seems to me to be your task to execute the orders that the marshal You have certainly
bestowed in this respect. "

Mr. Salazar y Mazarredo left with a deep bow, the Cabinet.

"There is something going on," said Count Bismarck by himself before his desk continued, - "but
what can the matter underlie - why this one-sided and confidential Request of Marshal Prim? It
almost seems as there was something behind the back of Serrano and the rest of government be
made to the primary would be in his special relationship Thread the Emperor Napoleon scarcely
such a thing if he did not believe the same result to be pleasant - the Prince of Hohenzollern is related
to the Emperor, "he said reflectively in a low voice - "the candidature of the Duke of Montpensier
has deeply hated the emperor be - it could be dangerous to him also, - should renews the suggestion
that Combination associated with it?

"Well," - he called for a long time, silent reflection, - "one has to the great crisis of this
slowly creeping disease states break out yet, - and if I do no matter how large Effort and attention
to constantly try to summon again! - Perhaps it would be a good thing
if the decision would come soon, "- he said gravely, -" if they would,
as long as I was still in full force at the head of affairs stand,
- as if this crisis in half with decisions and will be operated on
with half a means - then the future of Germany long time to come,
may be lost forever. - I, "he called flaming glance by an iron Energy
from his face lit up - "I would not budge, I would do the job capture
with the full power that it needs - and - I feel - I would win!

"Oh," he said sadly, "why the future is hidden from view - why can
we do not lift a corner of that impenetrable veil of the morning before
our eyes hidden?

"How many struggling and fighting spirit," he said quietly, hands folded quietly before leaning
on the table, "before me this question can have sent to the Providence - How many will say to
me, to get the same answer - the eternal silence!

"And yet," he said, the calm clear view hit, with a soft smile its fixed stern features a peculiar
expression, gave you the face of this brazen could hardly have been considered capable, "but there
is an answer, so many centuries by brought many doubting and fearful hearts peace, courage and confidence
is - simple, great and noble as He whose lips she escaped the first
- Lord, but not my Thy will be done!

"

He bent a moment the powerful head on his chest, then he got up, always with the expression of smiling
peace and clarity to his face, took his hat, got into the big Garden of the foreign office and
strode down from the high still winter bare trees in deep thought and often silent words to himself
hinsprechend up and down.

Third chapter.

were in a large room of the hotel to the sun in St. Dizier thirty or forty of the Hanoverian
exiles gathered, sometimes very young men, sometimes older people,
whose faces and attitude is considered the veteran military men.

They all stood in rows on one side of the room, looking grave and gloomy even after the table
at which the Major of Adelebsen, the Ordonnanzofficier of King George
was sitting, and on which Actenpackete and a number of Bank billets
and rolls were gold.

In addition to the Major of Adelebsen sat the former lieutenant de
Potter, a young man with thick, carefully curled hair, which reached
down deep into the strikingly low forehead, with large, somewhat staring
eyes and a thick blond mustache on his upper lip of the mouth, which
played about a matter stereotyped smile.

The lieutenant de Potter had a list of names of emigrants stayed in front and a spring in hand ready
to protocolliren the Procedures of the Major Adelebsen.

"Unterofficier Rühlberg" said M. de Adelebsen by the somewhat uncertain look in his Eye could glide
over the emigrants.

In the Unterofficier militaire position came to the table.

"I have to ask now," said M. Adelebsen, "to explain what They have decided on your future. I
would remind you that you will Pension is entitled to receive from His Majesty, or a lump sum
amount, if you prefer. Give me your statement where you intend to go after. "

"I ask myself once and for all to see, sir," replied the Unterofficier, "I wants with a number
of my comrades to go to Algiers to our luck there in a colony to try. "

"They want to go to Algiers, asked by Mr. Adelebsen a little taken aback," you know but that His
Majesty an office in Algiers can not find it useful to and that of all Highness ordered that the
Legionaire to an emigration of Algiers . Dissuade "

"Very good, sir," replied the Unterofficier, "Minister of Munchausen us the explained and advised
us at the same time to return to Hanover, and, " he added with some
bitterness, "the punishment that might dictate to us would be to sit
still.

I am quite convinced, "he continued," that His Majesty the best has intentions to us, and that after the
reports that have been reimbursed to him, convinced is that a colony in Algiers could bring us
no advantage. But I must tell you, Mr Major, that I have no desire to return to the home, to
stay there locked up. If His Majesty would be able to give us an amnesty, it would it something else.
Under these circumstances, I must try to stick to it, my future be
based on my own power, and I remain of my statement, that after Algiers
will go and at my request, I pay the compensation sum.

"

"If, however, but His Majesty," the lieutenant de Potter says with a slightly nasal Voice, "such
a colony has not been appropriate -"

"The Major," interrupted the sergeant, "We have said that we are completely free resolution would have
to establish our future, as we wanted. I've considered the matter maturely and stick to it,
that I will go to Algiers.

Excellent, "he continued," I want to be a be reconciled and for all,
wherever I may then apply, and is indeed the way of His Majesty are
all the same.

"

"It is certainly not indifferent to His Majesty," Lord of Adelebsen
softly said, "What will the future of his former soldiers, and if -"

"May I ask, sir," the Unterofficier, was sitting up at attention, one, "someone taking my statement
to Protocoll? My resolution is fixed and irrevocable. "

M. de Potter de Adelebsen gave the lieutenant a hint.

He wrote the Declaration of Unterofficiers down and the Major was one of the compensation sum in notes
and twenty-franc pieces off and handed them the Unterofficier that
with careful attention to his name receipt was submitted to him and
then stepped back to the others.

"Dragoon Cappei" said M. de Adelebsen.

The young man approached.

"Your statement," asked M. de Adelebsen.

"I want to go back to Hanover," said Cappei.

"They have been militairpflichtig," said M. Adelebsen. "Have you thought it over, that you will
be punished and perhaps set in the Prussian army? It would, perhaps, if you do not expose
this danger, in your interest, how many other Of their comrades have
already decided to go to America - "

"Thank you, sir," replied Cappei quietly, "I am determined to take what I happened in Hanover,
and wants to return to their homes and to my family. "

He received its due amount of money, the lieutenant de Potter protocollirte his statement Cappei
and stepped back.

One by one from among the emigrants was called, two or three declared
that they wanted to go to America, all the rest expressed a determination
to the Unterofficier Rühlberg to Algiers to emigrate.

"I must make all the attention again," said M. Adelebsen, "that, as
I have already noticed the Unterofficier, His Majesty can not believe
that you are in Algiers Find their future welfare.

They are there in a foreign country without resources, and without his support and regret, perhaps,
that you are going to such a decision have to be influenced. "

"No one has influenced us," cried several of the emigrants. "We ourselves have long been before
our officers have talked to us about the colony, conceived the idea
when the King could not get us, we set up in Algiers a future.

"

  "But I must note explicitly," said M. Adelebsen, "that His Majesty
commanded me have to tell for sure that those who go to Algiers, never
in any expected support from his side.

Consider what it is, in a very strange land under unknown circumstances establish a livelihood.
"

"We are in a foreign land," the Unterofficier Rühlberg a step cried, stepping forward, "always
still find people who help us by word and deed, and have feeling for people who their king in
disguise remained faithful are - we certainly did not believe that there is such would come,
because then we would probably have hardly left the home, and what the remark concerns that the Major
has done so precisely, so you can be very quiet, no one we continue
to support the fund will take advantage of His Majesty.

In any case, we will still be better in Algiers about where we at least, the French government
friendly meets, as if we hinzögen over the ocean to America where we no all help to die and can go
bad. "

"In America, we would certainly further away," a voice called from the ranks, "and if we All
were there, we would be sure that none of us, the royal treasury to the load falls. "

The Major took a quick look up from the bottom to the area where this voice is heard was. The lieutenant
de Potter made his mustache and said:

"You have to be calm and not
upset to speak."

"I think we are resigned," it shouted from the ranks,
"and here have nothing to do, we go. "

And briefly turning round,
they left all the room by the refrain of the old Hanoverian Soldiers
sang song:

"Funny Hanoverian we were."

Lord Lieutenant of Adelebsen
and de Potter grabbed the papers and the remaining Money together
and went quietly back to their rooms.

"Cappei Well," said the Unterofficier
Rühlberg to the young dragoon, who silently thoughtfully with the
rest went down the stairs, "Will you not still better of Go with us
and remember to Algiers. Just think how nice it is when we all together
and keep up our village after althannöverscher manner, since we can
still bring something to keep a free and independent life and think
back to the old home; as it was before. "

"I am sorry to leave you,"
said Cappei, - "but our affair is over, the old Hanover is lost forever.
What it helps the individual to fight against the world's course -
I love my home and the home is still the same but may now this or
that King to rule this or that law. "

"Now go out," said the Unterofficier,
"You will regret it yet, but is in love no reason to preach. But you
come this evening to us, we want to again fun to be together, that
night, nor do we want to travel to Marseilles to Algiers us embark.
We have our recommendation to the prefect there, and the Committee,
which our Officers are in Paris, will ensure that we are recommended
from there good. It was a pity she was likely to come so soon. Raven would have been glad to see his emotions
run the whole scale from terror to remorse before she came, if come she would, to allay them.

"No," he said quietly, "I haven't anything to break. But it's going to be an awful night. I
guess there will be things to break about the folks that are out in it."

Tenney came up to him and peered down at him in blank terror.

"Who's out in it?" he asked. "Who've you seen?"

Raven laughed jarringly. It did seem to him grimly amusing to be dallying thus with a man's
fears. He was not used to playing games with the human creature's destiny. He had always looked
too seriously on all such drama, perhaps because he had been so perplexed by drama of his own.
If his life was too puzzling a thing to be endured, was not all life, perhaps, equally puzzling
and therefore too delicate a matter to be meddled with? But now the game was on, the game of
sheer diplomacy. The straight and obvious path wouldn't do if he was to save a woman who handicapped
him in advance by refusing to let herself be saved.

"The night?" he repeated. "Who's out in it? Why, I'm out in it myself; at least, I have been.
But now I'm here by this stove, I don't know when you'll get rid of me. Put in a stick, won't
you, Tenney? These big rooms have a way of cooling off before you know it."

Tenney did put in a stick and more. He crammed the stove with light stuff and opened draughts.
Raven noted, in the keen way his mind had taken up, of snatching at each least bit of safety
for the woman, that the tea kettle was boiling. She would be chilled. She would need hot water.
And suddenly he felt the blood in his face. There was a hand at the latch of the side door.
Tenney, too, heard it. He threw back into the box the stick of wood he had selected and made
three strides to the entry. Again he called, in that voice of sharp anxiety:

"That you?"

She opened the door just before he could put out his hand to it, passed him without a look,
and came in. He shut the door and followed her. Raven got up from his chair and stood, glancing
at her with what he hoped was a casual attention. Tenney came back and, when she had thrown
off the blanket, took it from her hand and dropped it on a chair. He was all trembling eagerness.
That act, the relieving her of the blanket, was incredible to Raven. The man had wanted to
kill her (or, at the least, to kill his child), and he was humbly inducting her into the comforts
of her home. She had not looked toward Raven. With a decorum finer, he thought, than his own,
she would not play the game of diplomacy. She knew him and she could not deny him, even to
save her life. Suddenly Tenney, brushing past to draw up a chair for her at the stove, became
aware of him. Raven believed that, up to the moment, he had, to the man's absorbed gaze, been
invisible. Now Tenney seemed to recognize the decencies toward even an unbidden guest. But sea and the sky remained dull and leaden, and at times went misty Rain,
and he found himself in it to reach by water to another Venice when he was approaching to land,
ever met. He was standing at the foremast, looking in the distance, the land expecting. He thought
of the melancholy poet-enthusiastic, the former the Domes and bell towers of his dream had
grown from these floods, "he repeated in Breastfeeding some of what time of reverence, happiness
and sadness become moderate song, and sensation of already designed effortlessly moved, he considered
his serious and tired heart, whether a renewed enthusiasm and confusion, a late adventure of
feeling the moving Idlers could be perhaps even more reserved.

Since the right hand appeared on the flat coast, fishing boats crowded the sea, the island baths
appeared, the steamer she was on the left, slipped through the narrow passage slowed port named
after her, and on the lagoon, holding the light colored dwellings poor it entirely, because
the bark of the medical service had to be expected.

An hour passed before she appeared. They had arrived and it was not, had no Hurry and felt it
driven by impatience. The Young Poland, dressed patriotically even from the military horn signals
that fall out of the area of ​​public gardens sounded over the water, had come on deck, and, inspired
by Asti, they brought cheers on the other side of exerzierenden Bersaglieri. But it was disgusting
to see in what state had brought up the old men were astonished his false communion with the youth.
His old Brain had the wines are not as vigorous as the teen been able to keep, he was miserably
drunk. Demented gaze, a cigarette between his trembling fingers, he hesitated, difficulty keeping
his balance, to the point of intoxication pulled forward and backward. Because he had fallen
at the first steps, he dared not move, but he showed a pitiful arrogance, gave anyone who
approached him, laid on the buttons, mumbled, blinking, giggled and lifted up his ringed, wrinkled
finger at silly banter and licked on abominable ambiguous way with the tongue tip to the mouth.
Aschenbach saw him with sinister Brewing, and again came a feeling of dizziness at him, as if showing
the world a slight, but not to anti-tilt, disfigure himself into the strange and grotesque;
a feeling that dwell on the circumstances of course, distracted him, just as the pounding action
the machine again and the ship began its journey as close to the target by intermittent the canal
from San Marco resumed. He saw him again for the amazing landing place, those dazzling composition
fantastic building, which the Republic of the awesome views approaching sailors opposed: the easy glory
of the Palace and the Bridge of Sighs, the columns with Loew 'and on the banks of the sacred, the
ostentatiously protruding edge of the fairy temple Through the doorway and look at Riesenuhr, and
see it reflected that on land, on the Train station in Venice arrive, walk into a palace by the
back door, hot and that one otherwise than as he now, as to vessels on the high seas as the
most unlikely should reach the cities.

The machine stopped, gondolas pressed near, the gangway was lowered,
customs officials climbed on board and superficially under management
of their office; begin the disembarkation could.

Aschenbach intimated that he would like a gondola, which him and his luggage to the station that
small should bring steamers which run between the city and the Lido, for he thought the seas to
take home. It approves his plan, yell his desire for water surface down, where the gondoliers in
dialect quarrel with each other. He is still prevented from descending, him from his suitcase,
who had just pulled in sorrow the ladder-like stairs and dragged is. He sees several minutes unable
to the importunities of the ghastly old to escape the drunken driving the dark to make the stranger
Abschiedshonneurs. "We want to stay the happiest," he complains to scratch your feet. "They should be
inclined memory! Au revoir, bon jour and excusez, Your Excellency, watering His mouth; he expresses
his eyes, he licks the corner of his mouth, and the dyed beard fly on his old man lip resists
up. "Our compliments," he mumbles, two fingers on his mouth, "our compliments the dearest, the
dearest, the most beautiful darling ... "And suddenly he is the wrong Obergebiß from the jaw
to the lower lip. Aschenbach was able to escape. "To the beloved, the fine Liebchen, "he heard cooing,
and disabled sounds hollow in his back while he the rope holding the railing, the accommodation ladder
hinabklomm.

Who would not be a fleeting shiver, a secret fear and trepidation fight had if it was the first
time or after a long weaning, a Venetian gondola to climb?

The strange vehicle, from ballad times quite unchanged and are so peculiar black, as usual in
all things only coffins, it is reminiscent of silent and criminal adventures in rippling night,
it resembles more of death itself, to grave and gloomy Begängnis and last, silent ride. And
did you notice that the Seat of such a boat, that coffin painted black, matte black padded armchair,
the softest, richest, the relaxation of sitting by the world? Aschenbach was aware, as he at the
feet of the gondolier, his luggage against the bill was on the clean together, had settled.
The rowers are still quarreling, harsh, incomprehensible, with threatening Gestures. But the
special silence of the city of water seemed to take their voices gently to disembody to disperse
the flood. It was warm here in the harbor. Lau touched by the breath of the Scirocco, leaning
on the resilient cushion element in closing, the traveler's eyes in the enjoyment of so unusual
as a sweet permeability. The trip will be short, he thought, would they last forever! In a
low vacillation he felt himself slipping away the crowd, the hum of voices.

How still and quiet it was him! Nothing was heard as the splashing of the oar, the hollow of the
waves breaking against the beak of the boat, the steep, black, and
at the Halberd-like tip tipped over the water rose and a third one,
a speech, a Murmur - the whisper of the gondolier, who between his
teeth, intermittently, in sounds, from the the work of his arms were
pressed, said to himself.

Aschenbach looked up, and with slight astonishment he saw that it extended to her the lagoon
and its journey to the open sea was turned. It seemed, therefore, that he too could not rest
much, but must be mindful of the execution of his will a little.

- That is to steamers station! he said with a half turn backwards. The whispering stopped. He
received no answer.

- That is to steamers station! he repeated, as he turned around completely
and in the face the gondolier looked up, who was behind him, standing
on raised shelves, in the pale sky loomed.

There was a man of an unpleasant, even brutal physiognomy, sailors dressed in blue, with a yellow
sash belt and a shapeless straw hat, the braid to dissolve began
boldly, crooked on his head.

His countenance, his blond, curly mustache under the raised short nose made him appear quite
non-Italian shock. Although rather thin body of nature, so that he was not particularly for his
job sent would have thought, he took the helm, beginning with each blow the whole body, with great
energy. Several times he pulled back his lips and the effort showed his white teeth. The reddish
brows furrowed, he looked over the guest, by certain almost coarse tone replied:

- Go to the Lido.

Aschenbach said:

- Certainly.

But I've only taken the car to let me translate to San Marco.

I wish to use the vaporetto.

- You can use the water bus, my lord.

-
And why not?

- Because the water bus carried no luggage.

That was true; Aschenbach recalled. He was silent.

But the harsh, arrogant, a Strangers so little national standard
type of people seemed intolerable.

He said:

- This is my business. Maybe I will put my luggage in storage. They
shall return.

He remained silent. The rudder was splashing the water muffled beat of the bug. And the talking
and Murmur began again: the gondolier said between his teeth with itself

What to do? Alone on the tide with the odd rebellious, scary resolute People saw the traveler
not a means to enforce its will. How soft the way he could be suspended if he is not outraged.
Had he not wanted the journey long enough it may take forever? It was the smartest thing to
let things take their course, and it was mainly very pleasant. A spell of inertia seemed to emanate
from his seat, low from this, black padded armchair, so gently cradled by the strokes of arbitrary
Gondoliers in his back. like the idea of ​​a criminal in the hands to be touched, dreamy Aschenbach's
mind - is insufficient to invoke his thoughts to active defense. Morose seemed possible that
everything was created in a simple rip-off. A kind of sense of duty or pride, the memories were, that we
must prevent the it could, still once rouse. He asked:

- What do you call for the ride?

And sit him on the basis of the Gondolier replied:

- You will pay.

It was clear what had to return to this.

Aschenbach said mechanically:

- I will pay nothing, absolutely nothing,
if you drive me wherever I want.

- You want to Lido.

- But not with
you.

- I'm going good.

That is true, thought Aschenbach and stretched away. That's true, you are driving me good. Self,
if you have it in for me and my cash from behind into a rowing stroke Home Aides of sending,
you'll have me down good. But nothing like that happened. Even society set in, a boat with musical
bandits, men and women, who sang to the guitar, the mandolin, intrusive board went on board
the gondola and the silence of the waters with their mercenary strangers filled poetry. Aschenbach
threw Money in the proffered hat. They were silent then and drove away. And the whisper of the Gondoliers
was again noticeable, who spoke in bursts and demolished with himself.

Thus came to be because, rocked by the wake of a steamer to the city moving. Two municipal officials,
his hands behind his back, the faces were turned towards the lagoon, on the banks up and down.
Aschenbach left on the nacelle struts, supported by that old man at every landing-place of Venice
with his grappling hook to the body is, and since he lacked a smaller money, he went over in the
bridge of the boat adjacent hotel to go there and the rower at the discretion . To pay off It
is served in the hall, he returns, he finds his travel goods on a
Carts at the quay, and gondola and gondolier are gone.

- He has gone
away, the old man said with the grappling hook.

A bad man, a man without a license, sir. He is the only Gondolier, who has no license. The
others have telephoned here. He saw that he was expected. Since he has gone away.

Aschenbach shrugged his shoulders.

- The Lord is gone for nothing,
"said the old man, holding out the hat.

Aschenbach threw coins into it. He gave instructions that his baggage to bring into the spa hotel
and followed the cart by the avenue, the white flowering avenue which, taverns, bazaars, reservations
on both sides, cross- across the island to the shore runs.

He stepped out from behind the large hotel in the garden terrace and went through the great
hall and the lobby into the office. Since he was signed, he was dienstfertigem Consent received.
A manager, a small, quiet, polite man with a flattering black mustache, and in French-cut frock
coat, accompanied him in the lift to second floor up and showed him his room, a comfortable,
furnished in cherry wood Space that is decorated with fragrant flowers, and whose high windows,
the view granted to the open sea. He went to one of them after the employee retired, and while
it managed to come behind him and his luggage in the room housed, he looked out into the late afternoon
people poor and the non-beach sunning sea, had the tide and sent low, extended common mode waves
in the peaceful against the shore.

The observations and dumb Begegnisse of loneliness are also vague and insistent than that of the sociable,
serious thoughts, strange and never without a hint of Sadness. Images and perceptions, which
at a glance, a laugh, a ruling exchange dismiss lightly would employ him unduly engrossed in silence,
to be significant experience, adventure, sensation. Loneliness yielding the original, the
daring and strange Beautiful, the poem. Loneliness yielding but also the perverse, the disproportionate,
the Unauthorized .-- absurd and so disturbed the phenomena of the outward journey, the ghastly
old Dandy with his drivel from my love, who frowned upon, cheated of his reward Gondolier,
still the mind of the traveler. to offer no reason difficulties without actually to give food
for thought, they were nevertheless fundamentally curious by nature, as it seemed to him and probably
just worrying by this contradiction. In between, he greeted the sea with the Felt eyes and a
pleasure to know in Venice so easily attainable close. He turned at last, bathed his face,
struck against the maid some arrangements to complete its convenience and learned from the
green-clad Swiss, who operated the elevator, go down to the ground floor.

He took his tea on the terrace of the lake, then climbed down and
followed the Promenade Quai a good stretch in the direction of the
Hotel Excelsior.

When he returned, it seemed already The time to dress for dinner. He did it slowly and carefully, after
his kind, because he was used to work for the toilet, and found himself still a little premature
in the hall, where he a big part of the hotel guests, alien to each other and in mock mutual indifference,
but in the common expectation of the food gathered found. He took a newspaper from the table,
settled into a leather chair and looked at society, which differs from that of his first visit
to him in a pleasant Different way.

A long, patient, much more comprehensive horizons opened up. Steamed mixed, the Sounds of the
big languages.

The World's valid evening suit, a uniform of civilization, summed up the outside the varieties
of humanity to a decent unit together. It looked dry and long Face of the American, the much-tier
Russian family, English ladies, German children with French Bonnen. The Slav element seemed to
prevail. Very close was said in Polish.

It was a group and almost half of adults under the care of a governess
or companion gathered around a Rohrtischchen: three young girls, fifteen
to seventeen, it seemed, and a long-haired boy of perhaps fourteen
years.

With astonishment Aschenbach noticed, that the boy was absolutely beautiful. His face - pale, and gracefully
closed in honey-colored Ringed hair, with straight sloping nose, lovely mouth, the expression of
holdem Ernst and divine, recalled Greek sculptures from the most precious time, and at its purest
Completion of the form of so-it was unique personal charm that the show does not end in nature more visual
art believed to have encountered something similar successful. What stood further apparently was
a fundamental contrast between the educational aspects, to which the sisters dressed and seemed
in general terms. The redevelopment of the three girls, the oldest of which could apply to adults,
was distorted by bitter and chaste. A uniformly monastic garb, slate, half-long, sober and wanted
unbecoming of cut, with white Fallkrägen the only whitening, suppressed and prevented any Courtesy
of the figure. The smooth and glued to the hair had the faces of nuns by way of empty and meaningless
appear. Certainly, it was a mother who prevailed here, and she thought not even think to apply
also to the boy's educational rigor that her girls opposite seemed necessary. Certain softness
and tenderness shown its existence. It had been careful not to lay the scissors to his beautiful
hair, as in Dornauszieher attracted it is in the forehead, above the ears and even deeper in the neck.
An English sailor costume the puffy sleeves are narrowed down and the fine joints of his still
childlike, But small hands barely spanned, gave his laces, mesh and embroideries The gentle design
something rich and spoiled. He sat in half-profile to the viewer, a foot in the black patent
leather shoes brought to the other, one elbow on the armrest Having his basket chair, her cheek
nestled in the closed hand, in an attitude of casual grace and without the almost child stiffness,
to his female Siblings seemed accustomed to. Was he ill? Because the skin of his face stood out like
white Ivory against the dark of the golden curls framing from. Or was he simply a pampered
Preferred child of partisan and capricious love worn? Aschenbach was inclined to take this into
. Believe Almost everyone is indigenous Künstlernaturell a lush and treacherous slope, Beauty
created to recognize injustice and aristocratic favoritism and participation homage contrary
to accommodate.

A waiter went around and announced in English that the meal was ready. Gradually lost the company through
the glass door in the dining room. Stragglers from the vestibule of the Lifts were coming over.
They had begun to serve inside, but the young Pole still remained to her Rohrtischchen, and Aschenbach,
in a deep chair lifted pleasant and by the way the beautiful in mind, waited with them.

The governess, a small and stout lady with a red face was half, and finally the sign to rise. With
raised eyebrows she pushed back her chair and bowed, as a tall woman, dressed in gray and white
and very richly adorned with pearls, walked into the hall. The attitude of this woman was cool
and measured, the arrangement of their hair slightly powdered well as the style of her dress
from that simplicity which everywhere determined as the taste, where
religion is considered part of the nobility.

She would have the wife of a high German be civil servants. Something of a fantastic effort was
unique in its appearance by her jewelry, which was in fact hardly be estimated and three times
from earrings, and a, very long chain of large cherry, mild shimmering pearls existed.

The siblings had risen rapidly.


The child had resumed the rôle of Buddhistic calm temporarily abandoned last night when he
screamed out his distaste for earthly complications, and Raven, glancing at the solemn blue
eyes, saw that the only hope of moving her lay in him.

"Do you want," he shot at random, "to have the baby get chilled--and hungry?" There he broke
off, though he saw that did move her. He had to know from what extremity she fled. "Has this
been going on all night?" he asked.

"No," she said, with the same air of gently reassuring him. "I slept 'most all night. So did
he, Mr. Tenney, I guess. An' we started out all right this mornin'. But after he'd read the
chapter an' prayed, it all come over him ag'in, an' I had to go."

"After he'd read his chapter," said Raven. "And prayed! God!"

The invocation sounded as if he also prayed.

"This time," she continued, "he--he seemed to have a realizin' sense."

She paused a perplexed moment. In the little she had said to Raven, he had noted from the first
that she was often blocked by a difficulty in finding words she thought adequate. "He seemed
to know what was comin'," she said. "He give me warnin'."

"Warning?"

"Yes. He come in an' he says to me, 'You don't want to go traipsin' round in this snow.'"

Raven noted the word and smiled slightly. He and Tenney were at one in their care for her.

"'You go up chamber,' he says, 'an' have a fire in the air-tight an' turn the key. I dunno,'
he says, 'what's goin' to happen, this day. I dunno.'"

"Why didn't you?" asked Raven.

"I didn't hardly dast to," she said, with her clear look at him. "I knew if he knew I's up
there he never could stan' it till he--broke in the door."

Raven could only look at her.

"Besides," she said, "even if I be safer in the house, I don't feel so, somehow. I've always
lived a good deal out door."

"So you came away," said Raven quietly. "You came here." The words really were, "You came to
me," but he would not say them.

"I did lock the chamber door," she said, "jest as he said. But I locked it on the outside an'
took away the key. I thought he'd think I was there an' it might keep him out a spell, an'
when he did git in, it'd give him a kind of a shock an' bring him to. It does," she added simply.
"It always gives him a shock, not findin' me. He's asked me over 'n' over ag'in, when he come
to, not to make way with myself, but I never'd answer. He's got it before him, an' that's about
all there is in my favor, far as I can see."

The gentle monotony of her voice was maddening to Raven; it brought him such terrible things,
like a wind carrying the seeds of some poisonous plant that, if they were allowed to spring
up, would overrun the world of his hopes for her.

"You wouldn't promise him," he said thickly, "but you'll promise me. Promise me now. Whatever
happens to you, you won't make way with yourself."

"Why, of course I sha'n't," she said, as if in some surprise that he should ask it. "How could
I? Not while there's baby."

This threw him back to the sanity of their common cause. They were both to fight, he for her
and she for the mother's one absorbing task: the child. He returned to his old grave way with her.

"Now," he said, "you're going to do exactly what I tell you. If you won't go back to the hut
and see Nan, you're to stay here until I've got Nan and taken her down to the house. And we
sha'n't come up here at all, unless I come to bring you something to eat."

"I don't want," she hesitated, "to put her out."

"Nan? You don't put her out. She only came because she didn't find me at the house. If you
don't do precisely what I tell you, that'll be putting everybody out. I shall make an awful
row. Do you hear me?"

She smiled, a little flicker of a smile. She might not like to be pursued by jealousy incarnate,
but she was, he saw, rather amused at being fraternally tyrannized over.

"Now," he said, "I'm going. You're to stand here in your tracks, and when I've sent Nan down
the path I'll come and get you." 

What he saw was certainly been remarkable in any detail. It was not before the mother went to dinner,
they had expected, they welcomed and respectfully when entering the Hall common forms observed.
Alone all had so explicitly, with a such emphasis on discipline, commitment and self-respect
shows that Aschenbach is taken strange feeling. He hesitated a moment, then fell on his side
in the dining room and sat across his table in order that, as with a short Emotion of regret
noted, was very far from that of the Polish family.

Tired, yet spiritually moving, he talked to during the long meal with abstract, yes things transcendent
thought, after the mysterious connection that the lawful must enter into with the individual, lest
there human beauty came from there to general problems of form and art, and found at last
that his thoughts and findings some seemingly happy whisperings of the dream resembled that are
disillusioned with Sense than completely stale and unfit prove. He kept smoking after dinner,
sitting, walking around, in the evening fragrant parks, went to bed early and spent the Night in
persistently low, but several of dream images revitalized sleep.

The weather could be the next day, not less. Landwind was. In Pale, cloudy Sky was dull in the sea
calm, as it were shrunken, with sober and near-horizon so far from shore have resigned, that
it had released several rows of long sand bars. As Aschenbach opened his window, he thought the foul
smell of the lagoon felt.

Mood came over him. Even at this moment he thought of leaving. Once, years ago, had after two
weeks here this serene spring weather plagued him and his condition damaged so hard that he had
to leave Venice as a fugitive. Does not again the feverish pain of that time, the pressure in the
temples, the severity of the eyelids a? Once again go to the stay would be annoying, but if
the wind does not capsized, it was his stay here. He grabbed the safety of not completely.
To neun clock he had breakfast in the breakfast room reserved for
this purpose between the hall and dining room.

In the room there was a solemn silence, which is part of the ambition of the big hotels. The
operating waiter went around on silent feet. A clatter of Teegerätes a halbgeflüstertes Word
was all that was heard. In one corner, diagonally opposite the door and two tables away from
its observed Aschenbach, the Polish girl with her governess. Very upright, the ash-blond hair
newly smoothed and with reddened eyes, stiff blue linen Dresses with
little white collars Fallkrägen and they sat there and submitted each
Glass with preserves.

They were with their breakfast almost ready. The boy was missing.

Aschenbach smiled. Now small Phaeacians! he thought.

You appear before them, the privilege of any to enjoy sleep. And suddenly brightened when he
recited the verse itself:

"Often changing jewelry and warm baths and rest."

He ate breakfast without hurry, received from the hand of the porter, with the cap pulled Tress
came into the Chamber, some forwarded mail and opened it, smoking a cigarette, a few letters.
So it happened that he was present at the entrance of the long sleeper's still the one expected
over there.

He came through the glass door and walked in silence through the room diagonally to the table of his
sisters. His walking was both in the attitude of the upper body in the movement of the knees,
the placement White Shoes of the foot of extraordinary grace, very light, tender and proud at
the same time and beautified even by the child's modesty, in which he twice on the road, with a head turn in
the hall, his eyes opened and fell. Smiling, with a half-audible Word in his soft fuzzy language,
he took his place, and now especially, since he the show ends its exact profile research, I was
surprised this again, so was shocked at the truly God-like beauty
of the human child.

The boy was wearing a light blouse suit of blue and white striped with red silk mesh fabric washing
on the chest and neck concluded with a simple white collar. On the collar but that does not
even was particularly elegant fit the character of the suit, the flower of the head rested in
a unique Charm, - the head of Eros, the yellowish melt Parian marble, with delicate and serious
Brows, temples and ears from the right angle entrant Geringel the hair dark and soft covered.

Well,
well, Aschenbach'm cool with that expert endorsement, at times in which artists a masterpiece
compared to their delight, their rapture dress. And went on thinking He: Really, I did not
expect the sea and beach, I would stay here as long as you stay! But as he walked, went under the attentions
of the staff through the hall, the great Terrace and straight down
the boardwalk to the restricted beach of the hotel guests.

He was inspired by the barefoot old man in canvas trousers, sailor blouse and straw hat down
there was working as a lifeguard, assign the rented beach hut was a table and Chair out onto the
sand boarded platform and made herself comfortable in the reclining chair, he had moved on
to the sea in the waxy yellow sand.

The beach picture, this sight carelessly sensual enjoy-operating cultures on the edge of the element,
entertained and delighted him as ever. Even had the gray and shallow lake inhabited by wading
Children, floats, colorful figures, which, under his arms behind his head, on the Sandbars
were. Other rowed in small red and blue-painted boats with no keel and capsized, laughing.
Before the expanded line of Capanne, one on the platforms as on small verandas sat, there was
movement and playing lazily outstretched rest, visits and gossip, Careful Morgeneleganz next
to the nudity, the bold-pleasant the freedoms of the place enjoyed. Forward on the wet sand
and solid strolled individuals in white robes, in large, highly colored shirt dresses. A wide sand
castle on the right, of children produced was round stained with small flags in the colors of
all countries. Sellers of Shells, cakes and fruit spread knees out their wares. Links, one
of the huts, angles to the rest of the series and the sea rose and side of a final Beach, formed
camped a Russian family: Men with beards and big teeth, worn down and indolent women, a Baltic
young lady, sitting at an easel with exclamations of Despair painted the sea, two good-natured,
ugly children, an old maid in a headscarf and tenderly submissive
slave manners.

Thankfully they enjoying living there, called tirelessly the names of the disobedient are cavorting
children, joked means less Italian Words long with the humorous old man, from whom they bought candy,
kissed each other on the cheek and took care of an observer of human society.

I will remain so, thought Aschenbach. Where it would be better? And her hands folded in her
lap, he let his eyes get lost in the vastness of the sea, slipping his view, blurred break in
the monotonous desert haze of space. He loved the sea of ​​deep reasons of the rest of the request,
hard-working artist, demanding much of the form of appearances on the chest of the simple, monsters
sought to take refuge in, a banned, its just the opposite task and for that reason seductive propensity
to No limbs, extravagant, Lord, for nothing. to rest on the perfect, is the longing of that who
labored to what is excellent, and is not nothingness a form of perfection? As But he was dreaming
so deep into space, was suddenly the horizontal of the Ufersaumes of a human form of cut, and
when he caught his gaze from the unlimited and collected because it was the beautiful boy, coming
from the left was passing before him in the sand. He went barefoot, ready to wade, the slender
legs bared to above the knee, slowly but so easily and proudly, as if he were to move without shoes
is very used to, and looked according to the cross standing huts. But he had scarcely noticed
the Russian family that there in grateful Eintracht its essence operating as a storm of angry
contempt overspread his face. His brow darkened, lifted up his mouth was, from the lips to one
side was a fierce tug that tore his cheek, and his brows were wrinkled as hard that sunk under
their pressure, the eyes seemed dark and evil and out from under
the Language of hate resulted.

He looked down, looked back once more threatening, then did with the shoulder a violently dismissive
motion and let the enemy in the back.

A kind of tenderness or frightened, a bit of respect and embarrassment caused, Aschenbach,
to turn away as if he had seen nothing, for the serious chance observer of passion reluctant to make
their perceptions of themselves even before use. He was but exhilarated and shocked at the same
time, that is happy. This childish fanaticism, directed against the good-natured piece of life,
- he placed the Divine in human non-sayer Relations, he was a precious picture of nature that
had been good only for eye candy a lower participation seem worth,
and he gave the already significant by beauty Figure of the adolescent
a political-historical film, which allowed him on his Years to take
seriously.

Still facing away, Aschenbach listened to the voice of the boy, his bright, a little weak Voice
with which he is already far from the busy greeting for the sand castle playmate to announce
sought. They answered him, giving him his name or a diminutive of his Called counter called
several times, and Aschenbach listened with some curiosity on it without More details to be able
to detect when two melodic syllables such as "Adgio" or more often "Adgiu" with expanded calling
u-sound at the end.

He rejoiced in the sound, he found him in his melody the subject adequately, he repeated quietly,
and turned his letters satisfied and papers to.

His little travel writing case on his knees, he began with the pen and the correspondence that do.
But after a quarter of an hour he found it unfortunate that Situation that genießenswerteste,
he knew, so as to leave in the mind and the indifferent Fail to work. He threw the pen aside, he
returned to the sea, and not long before he turned, distracted by
the voices of young people in Sandbau his head comfortably on the
Back of the chair to the right to be governed by the driving and stopping
of the excellent Adgio again and snoop around.

The first view found him, the red stitches on his chest was hard to miss. In other working to put an
old plank bridge over a wet ditch the sand castle, was he shouting and waving his head, his instructions
to this work. There were there with him about ten companions, boys and girls, younger of his
age and some that are in a tongue, Polish, French and also in Balkan idioms mixed up talking. But
his name was the one most frequently heard. Apparently he had sought, courted, admired. One in particular,
the same poles him, a burly fellow, who was called like "Jaschu," with black, pomaded Hair
and linen belt tightening seemed to be the next vassal and friend. They went, as for This time
the work on Sandbau was over, wrapped along the beach, and he who
»Jaschu" was launched, kissed the beautiful.

Aschenbach was trying to threaten him with a finger. "But I advise you thought Kritobulos" he
smiled, "go a year on travel! For as much as you need at least time to recover. " And then he breakfasted
large, ripe strawberries, which he bought from a dealer. It was become very warm, though the
haze of the sky, the sun could not penetrate. Inertia captivated the mind, however, the sense
of the vast and stunning entertainment Calm Sea enjoyed. To guess, to explore what name it was, about
the "Adgio" was, it seemed appropriate to the serious man, completely filling task and jobs. And
with the help of some Polish memoirs he stated that "Tadzio" must be meant, the abbreviation
of "Tadeusz" and calls "Tadziu" is located. Tadzio bathed. Aschenbach, the had lost sight of him,
discovered his head, his arm with which he raised his arm rowing, far out at sea, for the sea
might be flat out to well. But already it seemed concerned about him, even women's voices shouting
at him from the huts, met again this Name that dominated the beach almost as a solution, and with
its soft consonants, u had drawn his call at the end, something both sweet and wild! "Tadziu,
Tadziu" He obeyed, he was striking the most reluctant to sparkling water with his legs thrown back
Head by the flood, and to see how the living form, foremen hold, sharp, with dripping hair
and beautiful as a gentle God, coming from the depths of heaven and Sea, the elements got out
and escaped: This sight was a mythical ideas, he was like a poet customer of initial periods
of the origin of form and of the birth of Gods. Aschenbach listened with closed eyes on these
antönenden in his heart Singing, and again he thought it was good to stay here and that he
wanted.

Later was Tadzio, the spa resting in the sand, wrapped in his white sheet, sold under the right shoulder
was pulled, laid his head on his bare arm, and even if Aschenbach it did not consider, but some
pages in his book, read it, he almost never forgot that that was there and it cost him only a
slight turn of the head to the right to the Admirable to behold. It almost seemed as if he
were sitting here for the rest to guard, - with his own affairs busy and yet in constant vigilance
for the noble image of man there on the right, not far from him. And a father's favor, the stirred
inclination of those who are sacrificing in the spirit bears witness to the beauty, to that of the
beauty has met and moved his heart.

After lunch he left the beach, returned to the hotel and made their way up his room before . Go
He stayed in there a long time before the mirror and looked at his gray Hair, his tired face and
sharp. At that moment he thought of his fame and the fact Many on the streets that he knew
and respectfully considered to be safer taken winning with grace and word's sake, - called on
all to external success of his talent, the he wanted to come up with some thought and even
his ennoblement. He then went to Lunch down the hall and dined at his table. When, after completion
of the meal Elevator ascended, urged young people who came also from breakfast after him in
the floating Little room, and Tadzio entered. He stood very close to Aschenbach, for the first
times as close that it is not in this picture even distance, but exactly with the details of his
Humanity perceived and recognized. The boy was spoken to by anyone, and while indescribably lovely smile
he replied, he was already off again, on the first floor, backwards, with downcast eyes. Beauty makes
modest, thoughtful and thought Aschenbach very vividly why. However, he had noticed that Tadzio's
teeth are not quite satisfactory were: a little jagged and pale, without the melting of Health
and peculiarly brittle Transparency as anemic at times. He is very gentle, he is sickly, thought
Aschenbach. He probably will not get old. And he refrained himself accountable to give a feeling
of satisfaction or reassurance that accompanied that thought.

He spent two hours in his room and went in the afternoon on the vaporetto the foul-smelling lagoon
to Venice. He got off at San Marco, took tea in the square and then entered, according to
its local agenda, a walk through the streets. However, it was this passage that a complete
reversal of his mood, his decisions brought about.

A disgusting humidity was in the streets, the air was so thick that the odors from homes, Shops, food stalls
spilled, oil vapor, clouds of perfume and many others were in clouds, without distraction. Cigarette
smoke hung in its place, and departed slowly. The human debris in the confines of molesting
the walker, rather than to entertain him. The longer he went, the more agonizing seized his abominable
condition of the marine atmosphere along with the Scirocco can produce, and both excitation and
relaxation is. Embarrassing sweat broke from him. The eyes refused the service, the chest was oppressed,
he was feverish, the blood knocked in the head. He fled from the distressful financial lanes
on bridges in the corridors of the poor: there bothered him a beggar, and the evil spoiled
exhalations of the channels for breathing. On quiet place, a forgotten and that seemingly
enchanted places that are see the inside of Venice, on the edge of
a well stay put, he wiped his brow and looked one that he must travel.

For the second time and now finally it was proved that this city in this weather it was highly damaging.
Obstinate perseverance seemed unreasonable, the prospect of a Turn of the wind quite uncertain.
It was quick decision. Even now return home is prohibited. Neither summer nor winter quarters were
ready to receive him. But not only here there was the sea and beach, and elsewhere, they found
themselves without the bad ingredient in the lagoon and its Fever haze. He remembered a small seaside resort
not far from Trieste, which to him had called honorable. Why is not there? And without delay so
that the repeated changes residence still worthwhile. He declared that it had decided, and rose. The next
stopping place gondola he took a vehicle and left through the murky maze of channels, including delicate
marble balconies out, which were flanked by lions pictures to slippery
corners, past the mourning palace facades, the large signboards in
the waste water rocking reflected, to San Marco guide. "Nan's taken pity on me and come up for a visit. Oh, Charlotte!
here you are. Show Mrs. Powell to her room, will you?"

Charlotte appearing, white-aproned, in the doorway, looking like the beneficent goddess of
home, Mrs. Powell greeted her urbanely and asked appropriate questions. Was she well, as well
as she looked? And how was her husband? Always well, she remembered. Yes, she would go to her
room, please. But she'd go up by herself. She knew the way. She should think so, indeed! And
her reminiscent laugh endowed them with the picture of the little girl she had been, born and
brought up in this very house.

"Oh, but it isn't up," said Raven cheerfully. "It's the west bedroom."

"Not----" she began, and he nodded, taking her coat from the chair.

"Yes, Old Crow's room. What was going to be his if he hadn't given 'em the slip. I put Nan
into the west chamber. You'll be awfully comfortable in that room, Milly. I'll take in your bag."

Amelia, immediately circumspect when she did not see her way, did follow him, but she was in
as great a state of suppressed dudgeon as a civilized lady, living by the latest rules, allows
herself to be. Dick and Nan, left alone in the dining-room, turned upon each other like two
young furies.

"You came up here," said Dick, in a tone of ill-suppressed ire, "to tell him we were coming.
I call it a mean trick."

"What about you?" inquired Nan. "You'd better not talk about tricks. Can you think of a meaner
one than giving him away to the entire middle west?'"

"The middle west!" echoed Dick bitterly. Faustina, it was they
usually summarily called, was ingenious, and what's more, her spirit had foundations. You was
beautiful and she was eccentric, but you take this word in exact sense, they had more Center than
those in whose district it seemed like a stranger. Whether they also always attractive was, I leave
undecided; it was quite a stranger, always strange, never bourgeois familiar used more than mentally.
For the adventurer she lacked the ruthlessness, and a large Lady to be, she was restless and full
of opposition.

Faustina was gone again one day. She left not even from me. No one knew where she had gone,
and she was missing. They forgot, I also they almost lost from memory. Because, again after
years, I met her suddenly on the road. They respected me, they hesitate, I do look, speak to
her, she greets and continues. Shortly thereafter I received a note from her with an invitation
to them to a certain evening hour visit.

She lived in a suburban retirement. I entered a room that the usual flying Halbeleganz Quarters
had. Faustina was still beautiful, but as of a tree to defoliate one can speak of the fall
of a human face. No doubt she read in my, that their behavior laconic
invitation was more likely to arouse curiosity as to to remind friendly
relations. "I love him
more than anything in this world or the next and I always did and I always shall."

This Raven, coming back through the hall, heard.

"Good Lord!" he said to himself. "Good Lord!"

So these two, with all the forces of probability and beckoning fortune pushing them together,
could not approach even within hailing distance. It was the hideous irony of a world bent on
disorder. He walked in on them with a consciously grave aspect of recalling them to their more
reasonable selves.

"What are you two scrapping for?" he inquired, and Nan looked at him humbly. She hated to have
him bothered by inconsiderable persons like herself and Dick. "Don't you know you've got the
universe in your fists for the last time you'll ever have it? You're young----"

There he stopped awkwardly in the enumeration of their presumable blessedness. It was Nan's
face that stopped him. It had paled out into a gravity surprising to him: a weariness he had
often expected to see on it after her work abroad, but had not yet found there.

"Yes," she said, in a tone that matched her tired face, "we're young enough, if that's all."

The talk displeased her. Nan never liked people to be dull and smudgy with disorderly moods.
She kept a firm hand on her own emotions and perhaps she could not remember a time when they
had got away from her under other eyes. Oh, I
could let my heart be also reduced to ashes! But when his love died is, for the suffering it
will still retain feelings of sensation. "

She sank down on her sofa, pressed his head in his hands, and her
rigid misery caused be charitable in a stream of tears. -

- Even
the lieutenant of books was almost in a rigid box Unconsciousness
the night passed.

 His violent, inner agitation, the unnatural tension of all
of his feelings, and the effect of serious wine he had held until the
morning in a state which was neither sleep nor waking, and in which
the images of Memories waved wildly, without themselves even in to let
the vague figures of the dream to hold on.

He slowly came out of this lethargic state the next morning, and gradually
began him to be more and more clear what had happened the day before
with him.

The first feeling, which he was perfectly aware, was a deep, bitter pain of the deception his
love, which despite its long taken yesterday to the message of his resolve Lover had another moment
with fresh hopes are crowned.

"Why has she written to me not the same everything," he whispered
from his bed without the to raise - or why they did not come alone,
why she has me in the presence of Man to whom they sacrificed to the
memory of me to want to give the farewell?

If the intentional his offense, a deliberate mockery, or am I you have been so indifferent,
that after the cold of their feelings has assessed the mine? "

Long he lay there in silence in the wake of this painful idea, then dipped the summary of other
events of the day to clear him.

He remembered the Game he made, he remembered that he called the young lady home, according
to Cohn and bitter comments have mentioned. A sense of shame and remorse came over him.

"It was not worthy, not male, not noble," said he, as he sat up on
his bed with both hands and held his aching head.

"I should not have to do, I would escape to my intense excitement, the society and nothing to drink
may. - Oh! " he exclaimed after a pause, "what a miserable, pathetic thing is that so much
vaunted Love! Only they can suffer so hard and so bitter, and then drives them to unworthy to
low activity. Oh, I swear it, "he said raising his hand," I swear that I wants to escape this
feeling as sin, and that never again the image of a woman my heart should meet! I want to
be free, stay strong and calm and worthy of me! "

The old servant came and reported that the breakfast room in the Colonel's
ready was, at the same time he showed the lieutenant that two officers
wanted to speak to him and waiting for him with his father.

The lieutenant sprang up, his burning head cooled with fresh water
and made into hasty rush his toilet.

When he entered the room of his father, who he already fully dressed, fresh and cheerfully expected,
he found the two officers of the dragoons and hussars, which been witnesses of yesterday evening,
were conceived in a quiet conversation with the old man.

Both officers were not the lieutenant with the otherwise usual warm impartiality and confidentiality
contrary, but welcomed him with a certain cold and forced Courtesy.

"You have slept long," said Lieutenant Colonel cheerfully, "it was probably a sharp session last
night - the men here are indeed been there, but that has not prevented to be very early on.
That's right, you have can never be put out of order, and I almost have to feel ashamed of my
son, that he is such a weakling that the next Tomorrow still feel when the night before he broke
a few bottles of the neck. Do you have some again this morning before
a game?

"he asked, turning his mustache," that would I do not agree, - only
the service before pleasure.

"

The two officers stood in silence as in some embarrassment.

"We have to talk to you," the dragoon said with a glance at the old
gentleman, "And want it immediately."

"They Geniren not me," the lieutenant colonel said with a cheerful
smile, "I am no longer in service, I'm just a good-natured old gentleman,
"he added with a slight Tinge of sadness, adding, "who was also young
and know what you're driving in the young."

"But we want," said the Husarenofficier - "to speak with you alone
for a moment.

It is a matter of honor, "he added, with a subdued tone, but not so low that it is the Colonel
did not understand.

The old man was seriously an inquiring glance at his son and the two officers and then said:

"I leave you alone for a moment with the gentlemen."

"Stop, my dear father," cried the Lieutenant of book box, "I beg you
to stay.

Your allowed, "he said," that I beg you to speak to my father. He is such officer We, and I know
no competent opinion in all matters of honor, as his own.

He is I am not refuse to provisionally my witness and his opinion about it to give what I have
to do. "

The two officers saluted the Colonel Lieutenant Militaire.

"It will be a great honor," said the hussar, "if the Lieutenant Colonel
as your will listen to witness our explanation.

"

The old man asked the officers with a silent gesture to take a seat and sat down then straight
and upright beside his son.

"I ask you, gentlemen," he said with a serious, almost solemn voice, "saying, what it is. "

The Dragonerofficier told in few words the process, which the night before in the had been restored
by local Borchard.

Silently listened to the lieutenant-colonel, dark folds lay down on his forehead.

"So has the event occurred, how to tell the men? Do you remember, did and said to have what they
communicate just now? "

"Yes," said the lieutenant.

His father shook his head slowly.

"The Referendarius of Rantow," continued the Dragonerofficier to the Lieutenant of books box
turned on, "we have applied as eye witnesses to the incident, from you a concise explanation
of honor to demand. "-

A dark blush flashed on the face of the lieutenant, his eyes looked proudly at his Mates over, his
lips quivered contemptuously. - "Or if you refuse the same," - continued the officer of dragoons,
- "you claim to his five step with solid barrier To bring guns. "

"Suppose," said the lieutenant, "I will send in an hour my Secundanten to you."

The officers got up and wanted to leave the room greeting. The Lieutenant Colonel was in their
way.

"I beg you to stay a moment, gentlemen," he said.

"My son is desired, that I was his preliminary witness in this case, and you have accepted
me as such.

Not only in that capacity, but also as his father, I must see to it that all just go, as required
by his honor as an officer and as carriers of my name. You allow, therefore, that I express
my opinion. "

The two men bowed in silence.

The lieutenant looked at his father a little surprised and expectant. This seriously addressed and
strictly his gaze on him and said, "Did the young lady to what it is, You ever carried out against
their behavior which any given occasion, in such a tone, how you did it to speak of her? You're
entitled to make her any reproach? "

The lieutenant was pale, in a fierce internal struggle, he pressed
his lips together, his Eye fell to the ground a few moments he stood
silent, a slight earthquake shook his form, he struck his eyes to
his father again, he seemed his fighting become lord of his emotions
and determined voice, he said, "No, never!"

"Then," his father said, "it is your duty as a gentleman to give the
explanation which it requires of you, inasmuch as the same expressions
Nothing mentioned against your own glory.

If you, "he continued," I deeply regret, you have to be carried away, a lady, you who to not blame
you, publicly insulting, so you have no right to their Call by the Eclat of a duel to become
even more close, you do not have the right to him who to take the life that is justified or feels
obliged as the defender act the lady. "

"Lord of Rantow is the fiance of Miss Cohn home," said the Dragonerofficier, "so and appointed its
natural defenders. "

"So much less," said the old gentleman, while the lieutenant again
the deep pale Hand pressed to his heart for a moment, "can this thing
serious and dangerous consequences have.

Had the lady you ever given a reason for your statements, so you
would be entitled to to take up arms against those who demand a reckoning
from you about it - but as it you are allowed it is not, you are obliged
to take back the insult by your own statement - The more, "he said
with a serious look on his son," because you really never have the
right has to insult a lady.

You are free, "he continued," You are an adult, you are an officer, You'll do, answer what you
can.

But I'm telling you as your father, as a gentleman and Officer who has always observed in the strongest
terms the fine line of credit that you committed to my deepest convictions are to give the required
statutory declaration. "

"We have written the same," said the dragoon by a sheet of paper from the Uniform pulled out and gave
it to the lieutenant.

This gave it silently, without even a look at his father.

The Colonel left to the paper slowly and carefully several times, then handed it back to his son.

"This
statement is written in a dignified manner," he said, "it contains only the same Anerkenntniß,
that you have just now spoken before me and before these gentlemen
and expresses regret, that you in the excitement in a moving company
you're carried away by your comments .

Let You can sign the same, - I believe you have to sign it. I hope that the two gentlemen will
be my opinion. "

"It's really not our business," said the Dragonerofficier, "such an opinion here to pronounce or discutiren,
while I am in this particular case, no hesitation pronounce it, that
I believe by signing this declaration, the Thing to be settled for
all the parts satisfying and honorable way.

"

The Husarenofficier agreed with the view to his comrades.

"I will sign," said the lieutenant field of books, took the paper
and went in his room.

"Whether I make it a reproach," he whispered to himself, while he
was on his Desk set and dipped the pen, - "oh, if he knew" - a quick
angry Look shone in his eye, he quickly opened the drawer of the table
and took off same, the little leaf out, which he had received the
day before by Miss Anna.

With a rapid course, he put his name to the affidavit, the same folded
together, to put the note and rose, returning to the room of his father.

"No,"

he said, when he suddenly stood still musing - "that would be ignoble, - she likes quietly go
their separate ways, she is dead for me, my eyes will never see them again, and my heart will
forget the pain they clothed me. "

He took the little ticket, tore it into a thousand pieces and scattered them into the air, then
he returned with a firm step into the quiet room of his father and
handed the Paper the two officers.

"Thank God," said the dragoon by the lieutenant's hand warmly box of books shook, "that the thing
is done so well over. I have nothing against a little Ball changes, if there are reasonable grounds
to do so, but in this case it would I really did but alas, if because
of this history, which we half and half cause have been, should have
blood flow.

"

The two officers saluted respectfully, Lieutenant Colonel, and went
away apparently lighter and happy heart, as they had come.

"I'm not happy with you my son," the lieutenant colonel said in a serious but more sad, as a stern tone,
"You let yourself be carried away to do something that a true Gentleman
should never do.

"

The lieutenant threw himself in the expression of a long-oppressed
feeling in the arms of his father.

"Forgive me, my father," he said in a choked voice, "forgive me I am wrong way, but I've also
atoned hard. "

The old man shook his head in wonder.

"Now, now," he said, "Everyone makes one a stupid trick, you take more careful in future and thu
such a thing again. "

"There is something not clear, the thing is not right," he said softly to himself, by taking
a side table was a freshly stuffed his pipe and lit it the same. "I afraid I have been in
danger of experiencing something that I recently spent with my friends
Rantow have criticized so sharply.

Maybe I should thank God that things turned out this way. "

He sat down at the breakfast table and poured the fragrant coffee from a mirror finish polished
brass machine fall into its large mouth cup.

Sixth chapter.

In the meantime, during the deliberations on two different objects
in the French Legislative Body, was the Salle des Pas perdus legislatively
in the building of the Corps, woselbst to meet the deputies and in
private conversations with each other tended to agree, many are filled
with vividly entertaining groups.

Just now was the news was spread that the plebiscite was a foregone conclusion, and that the
liberal ministers Chevandier de Valdrome, Count Daru, the Minister of Finance Buffet and would have
been the marquis of Talhouet their release.

In general, the movement and the animation are what the French character
is peculiar, the deputies expressed their opinions on this event which
the for some time by the Emperor followed direction of public life
complete again changed.

In the middle of a group was the Count of Keratry, a slender body with a characteristic Head, the
restless eyes looking around a moving fire, but not very orderly
Spirit betrayed.

"All is already prepared," he said, "so I have just learned that the prefect has been ordered to
send all their activity to the preparations for the plebiscite, and that they are also authorized
to explain to the communities that the executive power Maire's always the future proposals Gemeinderäthe
will choose accordingly.

"

"This is outrageous," said the deputy Picard, a man with a pale, sharp and a little grim face,
"this is a complete corruption of the public vote. Will to a referendum, one should at least
she can take place freely.

This However, as the case is a pure comedy. When the prefect with all the authority of their
Position to intervene in the matter, if the community also makes promises, which one, "he
added sarcastically," certainly does not intend to attend to them
ever, so powerful it is a moral corruption guilty.

One is public opinion in France before the eyes of all Europe fake to rely then on the public
opinion to when they will begin to implement the measures most adventurous of absolutism. "

Jules
Favre came near, his great full figure was a somewhat clumsy attitude, and his movements were a
bit stereotyped those theatrical dignity, which the lawyers to take care of before the courts, if
they bear the deep conviction with aplomb the personal impression
of the weight seek to strengthen their reasons.

His strong face with the regular, pleasant features, the big, clever and clear-sighted eyes,
the long, arching back painted hair and full beard, which in some places off-white colored, showed
a certain self-satisfied smile of superiority, and with his full and deep voice he said:

"We must organize ourselves, gentlemen, we must form part of our Committees,
which for , That contribute to all the people will make clear how
the free development only secured could be if one of the mass participation
in the plebiscite contains - if we can achieve it, reducible to the
votes cast at a minimum, then the moral Impression of the referendum
disappear completely, the other not only in foreign countries, but
even in France itself to a significant strengthening of the moral
power of the Empire must contribute.

Let's meet today and looking at the establishment of Committees. "

"This is very good," said Mr. Picard, "but how are we, but it was
an organism must create and proceed only slowly, we suspended all
hindrances and obstacles are what will cause the power of how we are
to the concentrated and well-directed Influence of prefects aligned
against something?

"

"No," cried the Count of Keratry, "we must raise our voices loudly to address these to protest illegal
action of the government authority to the free vote of the people. That seems safer than join
the election campaign, in which we are late would.

Can we prove that the votes were made by the prefect, then The plebiscite also its meaning from the
liberal public opinion of Europe fully . Lose "

"There is still a means," said Mr. Barthelemy St. Hilaire, a slender man of elegant Foreign Affairs,
whose looks and attitude a little of the learned professor recalled, "we must urging that
the plebiscite will only take a day, which is a great Massenbetheiligung impossible. I will make
such a request, and please, gentlemen, it to support. "

The lawyer Gambetta, a small slight figure, with slightly curved shoulders,
slightly elegant, a bit untidy in appearance, the silence was different
Comments by a member.

He stood there, the expressive, ugly face with the ill-kept hair and beard, with the cold and sneering
lips smiling, slightly tilted to one side, his seeing eye directed
with a dark, almost sinister threat of expression to a group of men,
who stood nearby, while the other eye deprived of light under the
hanging Lide was hidden.

"There is so," he said with a rough, somewhat clumsy-sounding voice, "the great Regenerator of
the empire, our old friend Ollivier, where it is so easy, a daily to accept other forms, and next
to him, Mr de Chevandier Valdrome. Questions a little these gentlemen, it is after all, be
good if we orientate himself before something to do just Know what we have to do in the public
debate. "

He approached the ministers and welcomed them with a polite but a
little awkward Bow, the others followed him and surrounded the two
ministers, about which very soon still more of the deputies present
in the hall grouped.

"It seems that the plebiscite is decided," said
Mr. Gambetta turned to Ollivier, of an affected in some, clean simplicity
to the desired attitude reminiscent of Robespierre stood, and its
peculiarly shaped face, with the narrow end, the strong cross-eyed
eyes shaded by a fine spectacle and the large, high above the back
standing chin protruding lips trembled in lively motion.

"I have
no reason," replied the Grand Keeper of the Empire, by the welcome
Gambetta of the Lord with cold, a wave of his courtesy replied, "me
of the situation does not utterance. Yes, gentlemen, "he continued,"
The plebiscite is decided, and I understand not how you and your friends,
"he added, as his gaze slightly uncertain about the Group glided which
surrounded him, "I do not understand how you against all these thoughts
can be. The immediate appeal of the people in important matters of
the Constitution Country is indeed so perfectly with the principles
of true democracy and rational, to which you confess, what I'm on
my part has always remained loyal, and what give this new measure
is an enhanced expression. "

A sardonic smile umzuckte Gambetta's
lips.

"May I ask you, perhaps," he continued, "how long should the
referendum and whether the club will come with the same right to exercise,
which allows the population, a previous agreement about the question
of the attitude to be taken over. "

"Undoubtedly," replied Mr. Ollivier,
"public meetings will be allowed to take place, and the people will
be able to exercise all its constitutional rights are exercised -
but, " he continued, "it is in the nature of the case that such meetings
because it is so here only be the simple answer to a simple question,
will not be so long can take, as this is allowed, for example in elections
to the Legislative body. Everyone should answer according to its free
conviction, a very clear question, and This will require, in fact,
no long debate and no long preparations. "

"But the government, gentlemen,"
cried the count Keratry in violent and irritated tone, "holds it is
not useless to make such preparations in the broadest extent. "The fellow's dotty. Don't you know he is?
Did he speak to you?"

Nan gave a little laugh. Suddenly the incongruity of it came over her.

"No," she said, "I spoke to him. Suddenly I seemed to see how Charlotte would have spoken--that
mother way, you know, men can't stand up against. I said--I think I said--'Mr. Tenney, what
under the sun are you carrying on like this for? I should think you were in liquor.'"

Raven, wondering if he should cry at the relief of having her safe out of the ogre's den, had
to laugh with her.

"It caught him," said Nan, beginning to enjoy it, "as grandsir used to say, between wind and
water. He looked down at the thing in his hands--the rags, you know--and dropped them into
the wood-box. You see that was the real wiliness of the serpent, my telling him he was in drink.
He's full of spiritual pride, all eat up with it. Then I played Charlotte some more. I told
Mrs. Tenney to come in, and remarked that she'd get her death o' cold; and she did come in
and her eyes--what eyes they are, Rookie!--they were big as bread and butter plates. I suspected
she regarded me as specially sent. And I lit on him and told him, in good set terms, that if
I knew of his driving his wife out of the house in one of his sprees, I'd have him hauled up
and testify myself. Then I ordered him to get his hat and walk home with me."

"And he did!" cried Raven, in amazement at her. "Oh, yes, of course he did. Go on."

"Yes, he came to heel with a promptness that would have surprised you. And I didn't let up
a minute. I discoursed all the way, on the whole duty of man."

"Did he answer?"

"Yes. That is, he spoke twice, the only times I'd let him. Once he broke in: 'I ain't a drinkin'
man.' That rankled, you see."

"What did you say?"

"I said: 'Yes, you are, too. No decent man would act as you've been acting, unless he was drunk.
And probably,' I said, 'you've been brewing it in the cellar, and selling it to the neighbors.'"

"That was a bliffer."

"It was. I had an idea he might drop dead in his tracks."

"That all he said?"

"Yes. Oh, no, there was one other thing. He asked me if I were saved."

"What did you say?"

"Told him not to be a fool."

Raven lifted up his voice and laughed.

They were opposite his own house, and Dick, who had just opened the front door, heard him.

"Oh," said Dick icily, when they came up to him. "So that's where you were. Uncle Jack"--for
now he saw he had just cause for anger--"I'll thank you to let my hat alone."

"Yes, Dick," said Raven meekly. "But I saw it and it's such a dandy hat."

"Don't be rude to your only uncle," said Nan.

She was slipping off her coat and Raven judged, seeing her so calm, that her evening pleased her.

"Mother in there?" Raven inquired of Dick.

He had hung up the pilfered coat and hat, with great nicety of care, in the hall closet.

"No," said Dick. "She's gone to bed."

The implication was that she shouldn't have been allowed to get bored enough to go to bed.

"I'm going, too," said Nan. She gave her hand to Raven. "'Night, Rookie." Then she apparently
remembered Dick, and shook her head at him. "Silly!" she commented. "Nobody'll love you if
you behave like that."

Dick did not answer. He turned about and went into the library, and Raven following, after
he had seen Nan at the top of the stairs, found him reading a day-old paper with a studied
absorption it was evident he was far from feeling.

XVIII

Dick tossed the paper aside and turned upon Raven who, taking his chair at the hearth, had
bent to throw on a handful of light wood: the sticks that wake and change a room so completely
that they might almost lighten the mood of the man their burning plays upon.

"Look here," said Dick, "you put the devil into Nan. What do you do it for?"

Raven looked up at him in a complete surprise.

"No, I don't. The devil? Nan's got less to do with the devil than anybody you and I ever saw.
She's kept herself unspotted. She's a child."

This last he said of sudden intent for, having noted its effect on Milly, he wondered how it
would strike Dick.

"Oh, no, she isn't," said Dick, with bitterness. If it was now possible for France and for We exclude unfavorable
chance - the candidature of the Duke of Montpensier, which the Orleanist
agitation in Spain a would provide a firm base, it might not be undesirable,
a young, our friends and related prince, who is also well Catholic is to
know on this Spanish throne. "

"The Prince of Hohenzollern," the emperor said in the same indifferent tone in which his wife
had said, "is very close to the Prussian home, and his ascension to the throne in Spain would have
an influence in the south of the Berlin Cabinet of the Pyrenees, founder of the Interests of
France do not seem to correspond to. I have therefore, as last year the matter was proposed
to explain show that the candidature of the Prince of Hohenzollern is an anti-national, while
that of the Duke of Montpensier hostile only my dynasty is. As much as I, therefore, "he continued,"
at once pronounced the principle of detention, the Spanish nation against in terms of their
resolutions for the future, the most severe Restraint observed, yet I have not concealed that
a candidature of the not expected to Prince of Hohenzollern, the consent of France had. Since
that Time, "he said, shrugging his shoulders," I have heard nothing of it, possible that the
Matter is still taken once again. I'm still on the same position as before and I do not think
that France, a Prussian prince on the Spanish throne could have fallen quiet. "

"So you would," said the empress, "or rather Montpensier as the hereditary
prince of Hohenzollern govern in Madrid to see?

"

"Absolutely," the emperor replied with a firm tone, "because I will always be the interests of
my Adjust person and those of my house in France. "

"Well," said the Empress, "then will be out of it nothing, because
I do not think Prim will do something, of which he knows that it is
not cheap.

"

"I have had no reason," said the Emperor, "on this issue with my primary thoughts exchange, and
it is in fact not just a phrase when I assure you, this whole Spanish matter left entirely to
do away. - You do not want me to review support, which I will hold on the Carousselplatz, "he said,
breaking off," I have the Garde de Paris and the Pompiers, a squadron of troops to police Seine-up consulted.
It is during this time always good if you also use this corps as
much militaires Feeling inspires.

"

"Thank you," replied the Empress, "I have to give different audiences.

Au revoir, "she added, getting up and handed her husband's cheek.

"I wish have removed you again fortunate this secret from your Orleanists Rath. "

The Emperor led his wife to the door and then turned thoughtful and serious in his Back room.

"It's
something in front of this Spanish Hohenzollern candidature," he whispered to himself, "In
this case you would like to manage a war question do - I see through all this very well, we want
to assure you that I really seriously of such a candidacy and would oppose vigorously in order to
make in this case the events thereafter. I let all this go, "he said with a smile," this candidature
of Prince Leopold, the one would like because so unexpectedly as a sudden and inevitable event of
war stand in front of me, I can probably do very well and offering me the handle, the whole situation
of the Things without making such noisy and uncertain decision of the weapons in my favor.
I think not, "he said thoughtfully," that the Cabinet of Berlin, the King of Prussia Send this
Hohenzollern candidature a particular value is - Benedetti believes that Count Bismarck had not spoken
to him his last and innermost thoughts - I think, Benedetti mistaken, maybe it would rather
oppose the Prussian pride a prince that is related in many ways with the local royal family,
to see go down a path that can lead to a similar fate, as it the Duke Maximilian in Mexico reached.
If this candidacy really becoming a serious form then the opportunity will be there to speak a word strong
and full bodied and the withdrawal same before the rest of Europe appear to be a moral victory over
Germany and Prussia to leave. This is a great thing to be won - the restoration of the French
shattered self-esteem and confidence in the superiority of the imperial government. So we can go
after all the things - I think they go a good way, and I 'll get there myself from all embarrassments
that surround me, without a military Decision, which I in the sufferings of my disease more
elusive than ever before - to escape. "

The Huissier opened the door and announced:

"His Imperial Highness Prince Napoleon."

The Emperor sighed and shrugged his shoulders involuntarily with an
expression which to suggest seemed to him that this visit was not
too pleased, however, he was inclined to accept the Head and walked
with a friendly greeting to the Prince's hand reaching toward his
cousin, which rapid and uneasy steps into the Cabinet entered.

"I am delighted to see you, my dear cousin," said the Emperor, "however,
I have only a few moments when the troops are already established
on the Carousselplatz and The hour has struck the Revue.

"

The Prince Napoleon was a peculiar phenomenon, which one could hardly have forgotten if you were once
met him. Both in his character, as in his olive-colored hot cut-shaven face with short black
hair, he showed a very characteristic Resemblance to his great imperial uncle, - however,
while on the trains of the latter that noble, antique classic peace was that the heads of the
great empire of ancient Rome characterized, while the eyes of the world-ruling emperor deep musing
to himself peeped or angry weltentzündende huge lightning hurled, - lay in the very nature Prince
scattered singing a restlessness and feverish haste with which the ancient section of his Face seemed
quite inconsistent and his whole appearance the term charitable Peace and harmony robbed, and
his eyes were restless to and fro, his lips twitched in constantly moving facial expressions,
and at short intervals, his mouth opened into a involuntary, spasmodic nervous yawning. His
figure was stronger and more compact than that of the great emperor, and when he accompanied
his words with violent gesticulations; Sun brought out his movements
almost a comical expression.

The prince wore a black Civil morning suit, a high Cylinderhut in hand, the large Rosette of
the Legion of Honor in his buttonhole.

"I want to spend your majesty for a moment," he said, with some rough Emphasis on pushing out
the words, "it forces me to hear of your Majesty's self, whether the Rumors to start passing through
the town are true.

Your Majesty, "he continued, "Know the deep devotion that I have for you than for the head
of my family and for the loving friend of my youth - in this deep devotion to the rumors which have
penetrated up to me just now, fill me with deep anxiety. "

"And what do you mean rumors," the Emperor said quietly and coldly, as he in his Armchair sat
down and taught the full view of its large open eye on the prince, who stood before him and before that
searching look sharp with a slight embarrassment eyes beat to the ground.

"I mean the rumors of the Count Daru," the Prince said quickly and violently, "all of Paris
speaks of it already.

It is said that you, "he continued, more and more lively by the ceremonial Attitude which he
had assumed on his entrance, forgot - "the plebiscite in all Also wish to do, and that therefore
Count Daru, in fact, not my friend heard, but the more popular are at this moment is, from
the shops will withdraw. "

"There is no difference between the Count Daru and me," replied the Emperor. "The count is in
disagreement with Ollivier and the other ministers, It is a fully constitutional crisis, "he added
with a slight smile," in which to intervene, I am unable. "

"A constitutional crisis," the Prince cried eagerly, as he laughed out loud and then Hand to
her mouth for a moment stopped to hide a Gähnkrampf who seized him, - "A difference of opinion
with Ollivier? Is this because Ollivier, "he continued," an opinion which is not yours? - But
that is not, is not it is the current situation, "he went on quickly, -" whether Daru remains
or goes is me indeed very indifferent - but the reason this crisis - the reason this plebiscite
- what are you going to do with the plebiscite - why this constant revues in a time when Military
issues which all connect so completely into the background - You have a Plan, you want war,
you want under the guise of this Ollivier, under the guise of Constitutionalism
restore the dictatorship in order to break out suddenly and may run
the European coup, as they call it, or perhaps, "he continued, by
his piercing glance, the expression of hate and anger filled "or but
others want it.

They want to take you there to run it. "

The Emperor was completely motionless, without any expression on his
face the fierce Words of the Prince listened to a little tilted to
the side, he slowly let the tips of his Mustache slip through his
fingers and said in an infinitely naive tone:

"You think?"

"Yes," the Prince cried angrily, stamping her foot, "I believe and I also believe that You go
on a road that is France, you and plunge us all into ruin - we can not beat - I know - it deceives
you, - Your big talking generals, Leboeuf this at the top believe that with phrases in the fight
against such a horrible can hold power like Prussia. All they have no idea of ​​what you go
to war is necessary - even Niel would, in my opinion not ready for such a huge Fight, but this
- the you now surrounded not have the work Niels not only continued they have ruined it again.
Your army is in disarray, the fortresses are not the associated state, the magazines are not filled,
the Organization of Militairverwaltung is more than poor, and if you let yourself be carried
away to the war, so you will, - I repeat - send us all to reason. "

The emperor was constantly moving.

"I do not understand, my dear cousin, how did you come up with this idea - it's not the small cloud on
the political horizon, and it is indeed in this very moment only only to internal issues. What
affects the way our Army and the Militairverwaltung so the view very different from the best
generals and yours, "he added, more good-natured as an ironic smile, adding, "those is perhaps more
practical experience as thy side.

"

"It is not too great practical experience to" the prince said in indignant Tone, "to see what anyone
can see and what you hide alone with success investigated, as your great confidence you avoid going
to get to the bottom. I ask You examine, at least, before you let yourself be carried away
in dangerous enterprises, just the state of the army - especially
examine the condition of the fleet, it is still concern than that
of the land forces.

"

"My dear child," the emperor said in a fatherly kind tone, "You agitirst you for no reason, I believe
the intentions that you conditions are not. "

"They do not exist?" Cried the prince. "They are perhaps not with you, but they are rings around
you, and you will ensnare you like that, you will turn all the way
and conditions contact that you can not otherwise will eventually,
as the plans to execute those who in their blindness intended to seem,
you and plunge us all into disaster's. The Empress - "

The Emperor stood up for a moment he seemed to be perfectly master of the weakness, what his attitude
was usually appear uncertain and wavering. He raised his head aloft, his eyes opened wide and sparkled
in the deep shine on, from his features radiated a wonderful sovereignty
and superiority, and with a full, metallic-sounding Voice he said:

"My
dear cousin, I am the head of our family and the chosen leader of
the French Nation, I am responsible for my resolutions, and I'm this
responsibility fully aware - has on my resolutions but no one influence
quiet as the consideration and the proper judging of the circumstances,
no one, "he repeated, with strict emphasis "And no member of my family
- not a member of it without exception."

He paused a moment, then added, with a milder tone, by the prince to the Shook hands:

"I thank you for your participation in the destiny of France and where
my family and I convinced that if more serious events should occur,
including not at this moment there is the slightest reason, you in
the place at which I decide to put out then will, will do with full
devotion and self-denial your duty.

"I am," he said with a polite, but firm tone, "ready to work with you in quiet moments continue
this conversation, for now I must ask you to excuse me because the hour of hip Revue is already
over, and you know that even our great Uncle had the irrefutable principle, to service the troops never
leave, but they always give the example of the most precise punctuality. "

"You will not hear me," the Prince cried fiercely, - "You can get used to is still not connected,
see me as a mature man, So you think the stranger more - than me, but I'll truly the next
stand. Well, I will not tire, even at the risk, you to displease, to the last moment to tell
you my opinion. "

"And I will always listen with attention and with the old love that I'll always had proved "said
the emperor, he gave his cousin's hand," bye! "

The Prince shook hands with the Emperor so intense that this they withdrew quickly. His lips opened,
it seemed as if he would say something, but he bowed in silence and
rapidly turning round, he stormed out of the Cabinet.

"What an irregular spirit," said the Emperor, looking after him, "what
a pity it is to all 'the noble qualities which he possesses, to all'
the large nuclei, which undeveloped in him to rest or to have developed
and are after the wrong direction down. - As for my relatives, "he
said with a half-ironic, half-melancholy smile, "So could the prince
of the oldest and most legitimate dynasty their sovereign little more
embarrassment ready when my cousin do it to me, - this unfortunate
Pierre, Victor Noir shot - Murat, who whipped this little Lecomte
- and that Napoleon, his rich spirit and his deep knowledge only really
used to all confusion to donate - maybe I should be strong against
him, I can feel it should be more, I am the boss of the house and
the sovereign of France, for sometimes exceeds he really the limits
of the permissible.

But, "he said, lowering his head thoughtfully upon his breast, "I have a weakness for him -
I have brought with him a little, - rolled up in his veins the blood of the great emperor,
and then - he is the brother of so noble and so generous Mathilde - the most faithful of all
my friend. "

He folded his hands and remained for some time in deep thought are, then he went on, stroking
hand across his forehead, as if to dispel images and memories of him had risen, a quick glance
at his clock and went quickly into his Toilet rooms.
 Yet Nan was young. Who so sweetly sympathetic as Nan?

"Let's not talk about him," said she. "Yes, a minute more, though. I've sent off a letter to
him. Charlotte was to give it to Jerry to mail on the train. It told him I shouldn't tell where
I was, and I certainly shouldn't come back till he got his mother away from here. He'd simply
got to do it. I told him plainly."

"And then you're going back? You promised him?"

"I didn't promise him anything. Because, how could I? I don't know how things are coming out.
There's the woman."

"What woman?"

He asked this in a perfect good faith.

"Mrs. Tenney." She withdrew from him slightly. If Tira made his heart race, she wouldn't hear
it. He should not be spied upon. "Don't you know," said she clearly, "I've got to see this
thing through?"

"See it through?" he repeated. "You can't. She won't let you. She won't let me."

"Of course she won't let you. If the man's mad with jealousy, he won't stand another man's
supporting his wife."

"I should very much doubt if she let you. She's got a loyalty--well, it's the sort you read
about when a brute breaks a woman and she says she fell and hurt herself. It's been the surprise
of my life that she said a word to me."

"That's easy," said Nan. "You're so awfully sorry for everybody. They feel it in you. She thought
you were an archangel."

"An archangel!" groaned Raven. "Good Lord! Well, what do you propose doing?"

"Go over there to-morrow. Ask her to come here and help me get the house in order."

"Then what? Talk to her? You'll frighten her."

But he knew Nan would frighten no one, not the least of the maimed and spent.

"No, but I thought maybe if things kept happening, I could take her back with me to town, to work."

"There's the child," suggested Raven.

"Yes, that's a drawback," she owned seriously. "On the other hand, it's an advantage. The child
might be made the reason: to have somebody look at him, you know. I suppose you saw he isn't
quite right."

"Not right? what do you mean? Deficient?"

"I don't know," said Nan. "That or something. Deaf, maybe. But not right. I hear something.
It's Charlotte. Kiss me, Rookie. On my forehead"--he did it--"on my forehead, on my right cheek,
on my left cheek, on my chin. No, that's all. That's good-night, Rookie--darling Rookie! It
is Charlotte. I'll let her in."

She went to the door and opened it and Charlotte appeared, done up in an old-fashioned shawl
and--Raven noted in an amused incredulity--a nondescript knitted thing, old-fashioned when
he was a child.

"A cloud," he said to himself. "That's what they called the thing."

He felt absurdly thankful at seeing it again. It seemed to assure him that although the surface
of life might heave and sink with revolution and the fate of dynasties, Charlotte and her equipment
of bed-rock integrity and clouds existed still. She paused in the doorway to take a basket
from Jerry, and closed the door on him, after a casual good-night. Raven went into the hall.
The basket was generous, in its oval capacity, the contents covered with a napkin.

"Want this carried upstairs?" he asked, but Charlotte shook her head.

"No," she said. "It's for her breakfast. I shall be gone 'fore light." She lifted her sincere
gaze to Raven. "I thought I'd come over," she added. "I shouldn't feel easy to have her here
all alone. Jerry said he wanted I should."

Raven nodded at her and carried the basket off into the kitchen, and when he came back both
women were upstairs and he heard the interchange of voices and their quick tread.

"'Night, Rookie," Nan broke off her housewifely deeds to call, and he called back:

"Good night."

Then he went out and home again, and fulfilled his destiny for the day by another somnolent
hour with Milly before the fire.

XIX

Nan and Charlotte, each in a front chamber, were soon cozily in warmed sheets. But when Nan
judged Charlotte must be asleep, she got up, put more wood on the dying fire, slipped on her
fur coat over a wrapper, did up her knees in a blanket and sat down by the window she had not
yet opened, in anticipation of this hour of the silent night. Really she had lived for it,
ever since she entered the hut and found the strange woman. The night at Raven's house had
been as still as this, but there were invisible disturbances in the air; they riddled her chamber
through and pierced her brain: what Amelia thought, what Dick thought. Here there was only
the calm island of Charlotte's beneficence, and even that lay stiller than ever under the blanket
of a tranquil sleep. Aschenbach had even less visible to Point very directly
that almost all great things stand there as a stand there Still, Despite grief and anguish, poverty,
abandonment, physical weakness, vice, passion, and a thousand Barriers had been obtained. But
that was more than one comment, it was an experience was almost the formula of his life and fame,
is the key to his work, and what wonders So, even if it was the moral character, the outer gestures
of his most peculiar characters?

About the new manifold in individual symptoms recurring hero type, this Writers preferred,
had early written a clever anatomist, that He's the conception of an intellectual and youthful
masculinity is, "" the pride in Shame the teeth bite together and stands quietly while their swords
and spears through the body "to go. That was beautiful, witty and precise, despite its seemingly
too-passive voice Embossing. For entertainment in fate, grace, in the agony is not only tolerated,
it is an active power, a positive triumph, and Sebastian-form is the most beautiful symbol, if not
art at all, but certainly the art in question. Looked into it told in this world, you could see
the elegant self-control, until the last moment an internal subversion, the biological decay before
the eyes of the world is hidden, the yellow, sensual disadvantaged ugliness that it can, their
smoldering heat to the pure flame to ignite, so, manages to rise to power in the realm of beauty,
the pale faint which brings out the fiery depths of the mind the power of an entire nation to mischievous
Foot of the Cross, prostrate at her feet, and the amiable attitude in the empty and strict
form of services, the false, dangerous life, the rapidly unnerving desire and art of the natives
fraudster: Looking at all this fate and how much of the same type yet, so we could doubt whether
there ever were any other heroism than that of weakness. What heroism, but in any case would be
more modern than this? Gustav Aschenbach was the poet of all those who work on the edge of
exhaustion, overburdened, already worn down, still upright support ends, all these moralists of
the service, which, slight in stature brittle and of means by Willensverzückung and wise management at least
for a while the effects of the size off gain. They are many, they are the heroes of the age.
And they all recognized themselves in his work, they were confirmed, raised, praised the fact she
knew you, they announced his name.

He was young and raw, with time and bad advice from her, he was tripped
in public, mistakes had done himself exposed, committed violations
of tact and discretion in Word and work.

But he had the dignity and won, after which, he claimed that every great Talent is a natural innate urge
and sting is, indeed, one can say that his whole Develop a conscious and defiant, all inhibitions
of doubt and irony leave behind Santander rise to the dignity had been.

Living, mental tangibility of the retail design is the delight of the bourgeois Masses, but passionate
unconditional youth is bound only by what is problematic: and Aschenbach
was problematic, was absolutely as any young man.

He had the spirit of indulged, with the knowledge driven exploitation, ground Saatfrucht, secrets
abandoned, the talent suspected of betraying the art - yes, while his sculptures, the believers
enjoying it talked, collected, lively, had he, the young artists who Twenty year-old by his
cynicism about the questionable nature of art, the artistry itself held its breath.

But it seems that nothing against a noble and clever mind more quickly, thoroughly blunted as
compared to the sharp and bitter charm of knowledge, and it is certain that the melancholy
conscientious thoroughness of the youth shallowness means in comparison
with the deep resolve has become the master man, to deny knowledge,
to refuse, collected Head ignoring the fact, if there's will, the
act, feel and even the passion to paralyze the least, discouraged,
to degrade suitable.

How about the famous Narrative of the "wretched" well-to interpret otherwise than as the outbreak
of disgust against the indecent Psychologism of the time, embodied in the figure of that soft, half-silly
villain a fate surreptitiously by his wife, of powerlessness, of depravity, from ethical fecklessness
in the arms of a beardless drives and depth of committing non Views to be able to believe?
The force of the word, with what was here the rejected rejected announced the renunciation of all moral
sense of doubt, from any sympathy with the abyss, the cancellation pardon to the laxity of
compassion proposition that all understand everything hot and what is prepared here, already took
place, was that "miracle of reborn impartiality," to which a little later in the dialogue of
the author expressly, and not without mysterious Emphasizing the conversation turned. Strange
relationship! Was it a result of this spiritual "rebirth" This new dignity and rigor, that one about
the same time an almost excessive strengthening of his Observed sense of beauty, those noble purity,
simplicity and harmony of its design, that its products now so palpably so willed character of
Meisterlichkeit and classicism gave? But moral commitment beyond the knowledge of the resolution
and inhibiting recognition - it does not turn a simplification, a moral Vereinfältigung the
world and the soul, and therefore also an increase of evil, forbidden, to the impossible moral? And the
form has not two face? If it is not moral and immoral at the same time, - morally as a result and
expression of discipline, but immoral and even widersittlich, provided they Nature is a moral
indifference within itself, indeed, intended essentially, moral to submit to her proud and absolute
scepter?

Whatever the case! A development is a destiny, and how should those not otherwise run, accompanied by the
participation, the Massenzutrauen a wide public , Is as those who completed without the glitz and the
liabilities of fame? Only to find eternal Zigeunertum it boring and is inclined to scoff when a
great talent the libertine chrysalis stage grows to perceive the dignity of the mind expressive
get used to and accepts the etiquette of loneliness, the fully open wayward, hard self- Sufferings and
struggles and it was brought to power and honor among men.

How much game, Despite, enjoyment is in the way of self-formation of talent! Something Officially-educational
occurred over time in Gustav Aschenbach's performances, his style in later years entriet the
immediate boldness, the subtle shading and new, he transformed himself into pattern valid-fixed,
Ground-Traditional, Conservative, Formal, even formulaic, and as the tradition wants to know
about Louis XIV, the aging exiled from his way of speaking each common word: Then it happened
that the teaching authority of selected pages from it took over in the prescribed school textbooks.
He was internally referred, and he leaned not depend, as a German prince, just come to the
throne, the poet of the "Frederick" to his fiftieth birthday, the personal nobility awarded.

After several years of unrest, some experimental trips here and there, he chose early Munich,
for permanent residence and lived there in honor of civil registry, as the spirit In special
cases is given. The marriage, which he still in an early age Girls received from family learned,
was a short term happiness separated by death. A daughter, wife already had left him. A son
he had never possessed.

Gustav von Aschenbach was a little under medium height, brunette, shaved. His head appeared a
little too large in relation to the almost delicate form. Its brushed backwards Hair thinning
at the crown, temples very full and very gray, framed in a high, rugged and as scarred forehead.
The bow section of a gold glasses with rimless glasses into the root of squat, noble aquiline nose.
The mouth was large, often flaccid, often suddenly narrow and tight,
lean the cheeks and furrowed, the well-formed chin split soft.

Major stories appeared on this mostly passive sideways inclined be passed over head, and yet
the art was to here that the physiognomic Through education had taken over what else is the
work of a serious, active life. Behind this end, the glittering replicas of the conversation
between Voltaire and the King of war born, those eyes, tired and low looking through the glasses,
had the bloody Inferno of the hospitals of the Seven Years' War seen. Even the so personally
taken Art is an increased life. They quickly made happy deeper, they are consumed. She digs in
the face Servant of the traces of their imaginary and spiritual adventure, and it generates,
even in monastic Silence of outer existence, in the long run, fastidiousness, over-refinement,
fatigue and curiosity the nerves, as a life of extravagant passions and pleasures they produce little
able.

Chapter Three

Several shops were the secular and literary nature travel enthusiasts about two Weeks after that walk back
in Munich. He finally gave order that his country house within four weeks to the river, abused and
left in a day between mid and end of May with the night train to Trieste, where he spent only twenty-four
hours and at the next Pola morning after embarking.

What he was looking for the exotic and Orphaned, which was however
would be reached quickly, so he took a visit to famed for several
years Island in the Adriatic Sea, not far from the Istrian coast,
with colored ragged in strangers Country people talking loudly and
beautifully ragged cliff sections where the sea was open.

Solo rain and heavy air, a small secular, closed Austrian Hotel Company and the lack of that
intimate relationship peacefully to the sea, just a gentle, sandy Beach granted annoyed him,
let him not winning the consciousness of its destination taken to have, a train of his mind,
he was not yet clear where distressed him, he studied naval connections, he looked around searching, and
surprising all at once, at the same time and of course, it was his goal in mind. When one night,
the Incomparable, the wish to achieve fabulous Differing, where you went? But that was clear.
What should he here? He was mistaken. There he had wanted to travel. He did not delay the erroneous
Stay quit. One and a half weeks after his arrival on the island wearing a swifter Motor-boat
him and his baggage in hazy morning on the water in the naval port back and he went there only on
land, at once via a boardwalk, the wet deck of a to tread ship was under steam for the trip
to Venice.

It was an aged vehicle of Italian nationality, date, sooty and dark. In a cavernous, artificially lit berth
of the inner room, where Aschenbach for now Access to the ship by a bumpy and dirty sailors grinning
courtesy forced, was seated behind a table, his hat askew in the forehead and a cigarette butt in
the mouth, a goat-bearded man in the physiognomy of an old-fashioned circus director, with
a slight grimace of the way the business conduct of passengers and their personal details recorded
exhibited the tickets. 'After Venice, "he repeated Aschenbach's request by the Arm stretched
and pushed the pen into the pulpy residue content of an obliquely inclined inkwell. "Venice
is first class!

They are served, sir, "and he wrote great crow's feet, scattered from a tin blue sand on the
Scriptures, let him run into an earthen bowl, folded the paper with yellow and bony fingers,
and wrote again. "A well-chosen Destination "he chatted in the meantime. "Ah, Venice! A beautiful
city! A city of irresistible Attraction for the educated, their history, both as stimuli because
of their present! " The smooth rapidity of his movements and the empty rhetoric, which accompanied
them, had something stunning and distractions, such as when he worried that the traveler wants
in his decision to go to Venice, nor waver. He conceded a hurry and left with Croupiergewandtheit
the difference in the stained cloth cover of the table fall. "Good conversation, my Lord, "he
said with a theatrical bow. "It is my honor to carry you ... Gentlemen, "he immediately called
with a raised arm and pretended to be the most business in the fast Underway, although no one was
there who had demanded after its release. Aschenbach returned back on the deck.

one arm leaning on the railing, he looked at the idle people who, the departure of the vessel attend,
loitered on the quay, and the passengers on board. Those of the second class crouched, Men and
women on the front cover by boxes and bundles used as seats. A Group of young people formed the traveling
party of the first roof, Poland Handelsgehülfen, as it seemed, who had joined in lively mood for
a trip to Italy. They did not fuss much about themselves and their companies talked, laughed,
enjoyed smug's own gestures, and called his comrades, who, under the portfolio Poor, in shops
along the harbor road went and threatened the revelers with his stick, leaning over the railing,
according to common tongue taunts. One in bright yellow, about fashion sliced ​​summer suit,
red tie and bold aufgebogenem Panama, the company teamed with crowing
Vote at tidiness of all others out.

But no sooner had Aschenbach him closer to the Contemplated when he realized with a kind of horror
that the young man was wrong. He was old, one could not doubt. Wrinkles surrounded his eyes and mouth.
The dull crimson of Cheeks was rouge, the brown hair under the wig color entwined straw hat,
his neck Derelict and stringy, dyed, attach mustache and bow tie on his chin, his yellow teeth and
completeness, he was laughing, a cheap substitute, and his hands, with sealing rings on both
index fingers, were those of an old man. be expected Gruesome saw Aschenbach him and his fellowship
with friends. Did noticed, not that he was old that he was wrong to their foppish and colorful
clothes, the wrong one Your playing? Of course, and habitual, as it seemed, they tolerated it
in among them, treated him as an equal replied, without disgust his teasing nudge. How was that?
Aschenbach covered his forehead with his hand and closed his eyes, the hot was because he had
slept too little. He felt as though not usually let everything be very on to begin at a dreamy
alienation, a distortion of the world into the strange to to grab that would do to maybe stop
when he darkened his face a little and again looked around. At that moment, however, touched
him the feeling of swimming, and looking up with irrational horror, he saw that the heavy and
dark body the ship is slowly replaced by the brick bank. Tariff lines, taking the work forward
and backward the machine, spread the iridescent stripe dirty water between the pier and Vessel
wall, and after heavy maneuver, the boat's bowsprit the open Seas. Aschenbach went to the starboard
side over to where the hunchback it a deck chair pitched and had asked a steward in spotty tails
on its orders.

The sky was gray, the wind was damp, harbor and islands were left behind, and rapidly lost from the hazy
horizon all land. Flakes of coal dust were, bloated of moisture on the deck washed down who
would not dry. After an hour stretched it out a great roof, as it started to rain.

In his coat closed, a book in her lap rested, the traveler, and the hours ticked him unawares. It
had stopped raining, we removed the linen roof. The horizon was complete. Under the broad dome of
the sky stretched around the huge disc the barren sea, but the empty, undivided space missing
our sense, the measure of time, and we are in the dawn immeasurable. Shadowy strange figures, the old dude,
the goatee from inside the ship went in with vague gestures, with words by the confused dream
Spirit of the rest, and he fell asleep.


"Law, Milly," said he, in the country phrasing he loved to use to her when she was most securely
on her high horse of the cultured life, "you look as nervous as a witch."

"Where is it?" said Amelia, beating a tattoo of impatience, with one hand, on the door. "You've
been up attic, haven't you?"

"Bless you, no," said Raven. "I can't go up attic now. I've got to do an errand for Charlotte."
This was true. Nan's dinner had to be carried over. "You run up, there's a good girl. Give
you something to do. No! no!" She was turning toward the kitchen. "Don't you go bothering Charlotte.
I won't have it. Cut along."

And Amelia did, in a dignified haste, to show him how journals were found, and later, when
the moment came, Raven went with his hot hamper to Nan's.

She met him at the door, no such overflowing Nan as last night, but serenely practical and
quite settled into the accustomed comforts of her house.

"I'm as hungry as a bear," said she. "Come through to the kitchen. I eat in there. The only
drawback to this, Rookie, is that it takes it out of Charlotte. But nothing, nothing! The sky was clear
and cloudless and player wanted them go home, when away on the horizon showed a slight haze.

"Wind - Storm exclaimed the farmer with joy," that brings the rain "!

He was not mistaken.

Closer and closer to blowing the veil, he was torn in many pieces and shaped into the dark
clouds, approached and finally clenched together to form a dense wall of cloud. Since it came
on, first a faint murmur, then a whisper in the branches. Awe crept away the birds and the Singer
of the forest fell silent, only croaking ravens and petrels traverses the air. Now it hissed
and whistled through the trees, the fearful and trembling, lowered their heads. Now we started
the moaning, rattle, rattle, hiss, howl and roar as an army and vengeful
spirits raced the approaching storm.

Bimbo and his wife did not respect the terrible Storm, and her heart
was full of joy, for this storm meant for her blessing, not a blessing
only the harvest but also another blessing that they did not expect.

[Colored image]

After the first shock of the storm the precious water of the sky poured on the parched Corridors
and watered the parched earth mother. Bimbo saw all this with delight, and pressed satisfied
his wife's hand. Suddenly a blinding flash of lightning passed between them to the ground and
blinded their eyes, while a terrible clap of thunder sounded, so Both fell down stunned. When
she awoke from their stupor, the storm itself had cleared and the sun smiled down on the back refreshed,
shining floor.

But Bimbo and his wife were no longer alone, as was her great surprise, one next to them pretty child, a
boy, at the exact spot where the lightning had driven into the ground.

It smiled very pretty and friendly, and stretched his arms the two highly fortunate rosy Old counter.

Bimbo
quickly lifted the child from the wet ground and hid it under his straw protective coat [4]; Then he
hurried home with his wife and was preparing the child a warm warehouse.

Now

the two old joy was turned around and met her longtime wish.

Finally they had a child, had something for which they provide and
to which they waste all their love could.

What should be the name?

In Bimbo was not in doubt.

"The child has given us Raiden" given, "he said to his wife," so we do it Raitaro ! Call "

And so it happened.

The boy grew up to the delight of his parents, but he was quite a different nature than the
others Children of the village.

He found no pleasure with the other children gambol or participate in their games. Most of
all he accompanied his father on the field or cavorted is wandering alone in the forest or lay
for hours on his back and followed the course of Winds and the flight of birds. A storm put
him in delight, and when the thunder rolls He broke into a loud shouting.
Had so the old people take pleasure in the child, brought this blessing,
and they also held any mischief away. The fields gave abundant harvest,
no drought, no excessive rain more destroyed the fruit hard work,
and all the best flourished Bimbo, so that he It soon brought prosperity
to some.

Eighteen years had finally rolled away; they celebrated
the day of discovery Raitaros by a festive feast, with singing and
merry words. Raitaro remained silent, however, and in is swept, and
the effort was in vain his parents cheer him up. As evening approached
and dusk fell, rose Raitaro and thanked his parents for all the best,
they had shown him.

The house was brightly lighted downstairs. Six or eight sleighs stood in the shelter of the
long open shed at right angles to the barn. The horses had been taken in and blanketed. When
Raven and Nan arrived, no one else was outside, and he was about to knock when Nan, who remembered
the ways of neighborhood prayer-meetings, opened the door and stepped in. Men and women were
seated in a couple of rows about the walls of the two front rooms, and Tenney stood in the
square entry beside a table supplied with a hymn-book, a Bible, and a lamp. He had the unfamiliar
aspect of a man reduced to discomfort of mind by the strictures of a Sunday suit. His eyes
were burning and his mouth compressed. What did they mean, that passion of the distended pupil,
that line of tightened lip? Was it the excitement of leadership, the responsibility of being
"in charge" of the solemn convention of prayer-meeting? It was the face, Nan thought, of one
who knew the purposes of God from the first word of creation to the last, and meant to enforce
them by every mastery known to man: persuasion, rage, and cruelty. She gave him a good evening
and he jerked his head slightly in response. The occasion was evidently too far out of the
common to admit of ordinary greetings. A man and woman just inside the doorway of the front
room moved along, and signed Raven and Nan to take their vacated seats. As soon as they were
settled Tenney began to "lead in prayer," and Raven, his mind straying from the words as negligible
and only likely to increase his aversion to the man, sat studying the furnishings of the room,
a typical one, like all the parlors of the region from the time of his boyhood to that of his
father and Old Crow. There was the center table with the album and three red volumes of Keepsakes
and Garlands, a green worsted mat, hopefully designed to imitate moss, and on the depression
in its center the astral lamp. On the wall opposite were pictures of Tenney's father and mother,
painful enlargements from stiff photographs, and on the neighboring wall a glazed framing of
wax flowers and a hair wreath. The furniture was black walnut upholstered with horsehair. Tenney
was of the more prosperous line of farmers. And yet he had not begun so. A look, a real word, an effect from human to human, human Attentiveness, willingness
of the heart can do more, far more mean. The evil is here in a rugged, anarchic look to the
dissolved company, which no living organization and has every reason in the fullness of abundance,
abundance to every load, every hindrance to false Activity and any separation of the individual members
with insufficient power of individual and provision for disaster. The literature is considered
a trade like any other, the so-called talent is enough to get ahead. The incidence is overestimated,
the incidence is the detail and the Detailkrämerei begins to excite us spiritual indigestion;
the makers, the gesture, the language of almost self-working mechanism and the habit to express opinion
as standard, to divest themselves of mental tension by keeping them reveals and in a quasi-poetic
form, which usually leads to the shamelessness cold Psychology, petrified to places, and the ease
and speed of communication, all this encourages the individual always to isolate the literary
and political, social and kill it humanely. If you come to the conclusion that the so-called
talent in the most cases, only a being who lives in voluntary exile of a community it can not
be useful, a parasite and privateers would have won a lot, and the thirty thousand books, who
flock every year in Germany on the market would, under the pressure of a wiser and a more rational
choice appeal to a necessary number to shrink, perhaps more castles in the content.

The woman than to love and conceiving certain creature isolated human and spiritual, Infertility in social and
egoistic personification of their deeper fate of their anonymous
beautiful effect (like much but owes its participation in the glory
of our great Artists), so, to see life stripped of their myth, granted
a sad picture far-reaching Misunderstanding.

I speak not of course the actress, singer, of receptive Arts and this harmony, as long as a literary
impact by exaggerating Individual ambition and purpose being held, very well with the female soul,
with their mental ability to change, clinging poeticization of feeling and reality. The dancer,
who only uses her body for artistic expression, offers perhaps the noblest picture of feminine
genius. Only where the creativity is simulated shows, the woman (with the exception of two or three
cases in the whole history of thought) at once as a writer par excellence. Nature can not
deceive the man, as only people can be deceived. They do than they thought, even when its
interior uninvolved is, they take the miraculous for the miracle, the last resort for the necessary,
the Phantom for the phenomenon. The woman as a writer does not need more to tell, there is
nothing to betrayed, it's all from simple sincerity, honesty and transparency. We see a capable,
industrious, intelligent and thoughtful work, which neither word, nor rhythm, nor idea may be to
mask the pain of loneliness and the only comfortable manner suspect not mentally increases
and dissolves, no tragedy, only a characterized and random shape.

Results

The writer is the myth of detached productive human being.

He is also separate from the human society, the individual, within only external laws cemented
community.

Just as it is unthinkable without the example of the creative people,
he remains in his actions, by his personality effort by the need the
reflection, through the element of ambition and by the element of
betrayal of the Company connected.

The writer is forgetful. He is unkind, because it involved too much in itself is. He does not
recognize any convention, because only his own person to him the standard for the world and
things are. This lack of convention led him to an artificial originality using the rare observation
of the rare word, the rare rhythm.

The writer is vanity and yearning, vain self, where he exposes himself, and eagerly most places
where it is lost. He is restless, always eager for change, understanding
but do not migrate.

His relationship with people is rarely permanent, and he is the highest Claims on his part
to satisfy without any endorsement from the other side.

He controls his own actions, thoughts and feelings very sharp, even
cruel.

It lack of respect for him at that himself, which distinguishes the creative person. Because
he is so relentlessly and ruthlessly against himself, he believes it against other be allowed,
but he forgets that that rage against his own soul only a pretext for Betrayal, but is not a means
for cleaning, enhancement and liberation. Introspection Selbstzerfaserung is unfortunate as
it is difficult to think bigger, and all original force of faith, all capacity for moral elevation,
the conversion goes, based on it. Even the religious or the creative individual watched himself,
but he will while a parable; by this Gleichniswerdung he can correct himself and modest.

Not without deep reason such a large number of letters found among
the Jews.

In the Existence of the Jews is the sharpest contrast of mental and psychological characteristics
known. He is either the godless or the gotterfüllteste of all people, he is either truly social, it
was in old, lifeless forms, be it new, utopian, the Old destructive, or he will look into anarchic
loneliness only themselves. Either he a fanatic or an indifferent, either a mercenary or a prophet.
The fate the nation, its isolation in foreign nations, their enormous economic and intellectual
efforts in the fight against the most adverse circumstances, the constant state of Defense, the
self-assertion, the sudden awakening on the morning of a culture day, the passionate Take
the tools and weapons of this culture and the violent repression carried out and fragmentation
of the tradition, all that saw the Jews as a whole people to a kind of literary role predetermined. Where,
however, the individual becomes conscious again of the great relationship, where it rests in the lap
of history, tradition, where symbols carry him EMA, EMA Blood flows give it all at once noble consciousness
and acquired and acquired organic it melts as it may well find their way to the divine than
others. The Jew as Europeans, as a cosmopolitan man of letters, the Jew as Oriental, not ethnography,
but in the mythical sense than what the transforming power of the present already the condition
making can be a creator.

All professions and all classes have their writers. You can set up the sentence: Any expert is a writer,
any layman with a bit of myth.

For all technical nature and specialization is just one feature of the great process of individualization
time. Forces us to deepen Secretion, the abundance of labor. This is good and essential. Now, however, occurred
the odd thing that just at this, the modesty imperiously demanding activity individuals are
suspicious watchfulness of the psychologists who expressed an ambition of the Tribune, that he
of all that does not relate his subject, in a defiant and indifferent Distance and has a life
outside of the tray often hardly know. The writer is a born Zünftler.

Amateur writers sometimes give to the Council that it not only in
his purchase order relying on the art, next select an office or a
day job.

This is just as, like trying to convince a medical specialist to operate the way the joinery, because
he has too few patients. By law, he would reply: My professional to man altogether, all my time,
my whole effort and all thoughts. The writer is just only a writer, he can not be anything else. The
proposal of the laity is of course in every Meaning foolish. Office and living as the only amateurs
are good, depending inward his relationship to art is, the more he must suffer honing employment.
The creative man it is complete torture, and calls him his job entirely, though in a different
way, not because he is a writer, who wants to conquer and must, but because he is a man, because
myth and humanity require of him that he should surrender himself unconditionally and without reservation.
Acquisition or inactivity of earthly goods is higher in this account no longer in question;
bad enough if it is relevant to consider in lower consideration.

However, is the naked and honest comparison of the economic and spiritual Powers to the image
of our times.

Capital will benefit; performance will usufruct, labor and increase awareness of life itself are
mutually supportive, success, confirmation and contract are the individual rapid and abundant
metered as ever, and though the temptation is often followed only because a performance seems
so close, the call only because so many listeners find, because in it the satisfaction of
extravagant claims are promised, there can hardly paid a premium be without the full, so passionate
use of drive and intensity.

This passion, this momentum, the indefatigable rivalry, they may sign for the emergence of a
greater time, timid signs because they're just getting personal and adhere selfish. But as hardware
in the fire of the furnace are melted together, then the cut in pieces and the fragmentation of
an individualistic society all members of a taken, steady stream of passion, no matter where
it arises, be converted to organic unity. Passion is indeed the first and last life force; in
their element and will be united, they can cause an unproductive order to chaos, but produce from
the chaos again a new world, collection from the Diaspora. Then may be a way to open up the
myth and to God.

The art of narrative

Written in 1904

YOUNG:

It's probably been over a year that we have
not seen.

Since the death of my friend is, I hardly have come at people and I leave my hotel room, with
only isolated Walks. My only pleasure are the books and thinking about the impression they made
me. I think if I once again would take pen in hand, so I could make something solid.

OLD MAN:

And why it drives you, then? An artist should not be like a hunter who blithely what may come
to him before the shot, stripped across the terrain, but it must be like a sailor of the internal
sense, the inner eye constantly on a perhaps not visible, but deeply conscious goal oriented.
So why it drives you? What do you think you born? What Island of the mind you want to discover
you?

YOUNG:

I feel nothing else to talk about pleasure and joy as stories. In the hours of Loneliness and
the collection it is to me as if my heart would be filled to the brim with Events and destinies. I am
often is courage, as though the whole course of the world, by Adams
At times, revealed itself to me in a special way, and I feel the irresistible
desire how shall I say?

... tell tell.

OLD MAN:

This is beautiful, gorgeous even.

If you really have this desire and it does not misunderstand the fact as you follow it, then
you were born, but to tell.

YOUNG:

How should I misunderstand it? Why do you doubt? Is there anything simpler?

OLD MAN:

That it is simply no way, no way, of course, you could have a look
at today's products teach this art.

Most people do not know everything so, what it ie: telling a story,
and even the most gifted get louder and hybrid Mißformen forth.

YOUNG:

You are very strict as ever. I do not think you're right. Never was so much in Work like right
now. On all sides it is day.

OLD MAN:

The eternal mistake of youth.

YOUNG:

Then I have to fear that you too, I even created yet discard wilt.

OLD MAN:

Then I could answer only if I knew how things are with you and if you otherwise met the love
of the thing, if your mind is nothing more than striving to complete in her if you was afraid
of the truth or whether frivolous praise thee not been blinded for ever added. If you're afraid
of a bitter hour, then do not hide it, I like to keep quiet. Do you remember?

YOUNG:

Do you think because your opinion of irrefutable, for the only possible?

Can not there is fraud, based on Unmilde on attachment?

OLD MAN:

I will seek to establish you, and if you can refute my arguments, I will I consider sufficient.

YOUNG:

So
talk.

OLD MAN:

There are three types of writers: those who have their own style and
be prepared to form prime assets, those looking for a unique style,
and finally those that find the one style and all the world to behave
to him as the guest of an inn to the tables and chairs and jars, and
may never become Lord of their word, their thoughts, be their phrase,
the ardent experience they need to solidify, sublime moods trivial,
any inspiration is intended any outside influence imitation, all that
strong is brutal, and what is fine, delicate.

But of these writers, the obtain market goods for the great company that we do not want to
talk. You belong to the second kind

YOUNG:

That would no longer bad. We are all seekers. Yes, you can say that the greatest Master has
not stopped until his dying day to search.

Why are you smiling?

OLD MAN:

Because I look at this remark, how little do you understand me yet. If the major Master looking
for, they want to create harmony between matter and form. They know that it without such harmony
is absolutely no work of art. And because they know that and this Ways to aspire to perfection
and will probably keep the abundance of their resources to the wrong Subject to waste or in the wrong
place, so always come about, what the art and their own creative personality is under. You
look with open eyes, but her investigated as a blind, they go the
right way and get to a goal, if not always in desired, but it stumbles
around in circles.

The seekers who do not know about the nature, are doomed.

YOUNG:

You make me really nervous. I would hate you if I do not know how serious you mean it. I can guess
where you're getting at. Say so and at last from me.

OLD MAN:

Good.

Two things, a seemingly outer and an inner apparently, I have first to your Suspend work: namely,
that they do not satisfy the reader with ease and that it the fabric of existence itself lacks necessity.
Both Though this intimate than you think, I'll prove soon.

YOUNG:

What do you mean by comfort? The contrary, we aim at but, if we contrive Seals: Agitation, excitement,
participation, vibration. I think you doing your fun with me.

OLD MAN:

Patience. I understand the comfort here in a higher, artistic sense.

I understand including the unlimited confidence of the ideal reader
for the narrator.

This trust is created created by credibility, and credibility is
now out of the necessity of the narrated Article.

You see now how hard is the relationship between the two things,
and yet it is integral to the eye and the feeling of what the layman,
the amateur, the average critic of the technique is known: the nature
of storytelling, and it is only a seemingly external, because in reality
it is the soul of the epic art.

YOUNG:

This is far and wide. You wanted to talk about my work.

OLD MAN:

I say that your products are without the comfort, because you are not the means and Knowledge
have to produce it. What do you write with, the unmistakable stamp of the direct and indirect
experience, but these experiences are not artistically transfigured and increased and are
therefore left with no poetic effects. You have a strong and natural emotion, but only rarely
in its purity works because the fabric does not dissolve completely in their able. Do you
notice now that it getting at, you realize how everything Inside also something external and
vice versa?

YOUNG:

I see nothing but pedantry and hear nothing but words. If the art form is not sufficient for what
I say, well then extended to me this form.

Where are these learned Written laws, which I will add me?

Who made them, and how I came to me to bow before them?

OLD MAN:

Where they are written? In the human being. Who made them? The human feeling. Why should you bend
them up? Because you will not act otherwise, because your words and
your Works are usually of more volatile stock than a piece of ice
in the midday sun.

It has namely Over the centuries, the millennia figured out what
takes the humanity, comfort and enjoys what comes out of their depths
and strives to their depths.

It followed and such high reaching effects, not blind, but by the clearest knowledge, these were the champions.
Anyone who defies the instruction may not even be students.

YOUNG:

So teach me.

OLD MAN:

I said earlier, that the elements do not mix in you want, remain substance and perception unresolved
and hostile toward each other. The result is an everlasting and everywhere apparent dissonance.
You really do not tell events, but you describe it conditions. Just seems that you care about what
is important in the story and needs to be. You jump from situation to situation, the Intermediate
you is a stopgap measure, is forced to Report and disappointed by his sobriety. As you work
this hesitation as a creative artist himself clearly very sensitive, it urges you to make adjustments,
and you've got too emotional and lyrical Access accounts, in which the action is not a step
further. Because it is it, mind you: movement is everything, all art is created by movement. This
now depends again The design of your closest people together. Your characters have no rest points.
You are skilled and credible drawn, the extent and associated with
the action but are separated and considered it own living, they become
dull and wooden.

You know exactly what they should not, in their world, but in your
world.

It lacks the higher intention to deceive and deception power. A character has to live despite
the action not by the action. Where it would otherwise, especially with all that mediocre writers
the figures are the most credible, the least with the action and its tension are interwoven,
known as Episode figures? Only they spread comfort, that is Credibility, because they follow no apparent
purpose. If one can say that art formed by the movement, we must
add, it works through the apparent futility the movement.

YOUNG:

I have doubts about doubt. Hundreds of questions force themselves upon me, because I can see
how you reach deep. And it dawns on me many things that I could know nothing earlier. But let ask me.
You said that I did not tell events, but describe situations and I must admit it confused me
the tag. Is not it just a word game? What Difference because you seem to exist between narrative
and description? I mean, how the effect of a work is affected. Are not scholastic limits?

OLD MAN:

Let's say that you had a difficult and dangerous journey behind you, hast lethal Adventure
hast existed for many years been regarded as lost and lost and now mayest yet returned. Everything
is anxious to hear how you accomplished it and how it dir was given.
You set up in the circle of onlookers and participants and tell them
start with a trip across the sea, the list of your companions and
their short hint Nature and their recent fortunes you go on, with
the landing, the dawn of the unknown Areas, etc., etc. It would be
appropriate to the interest of listeners by descriptions of Landscapes,
animals, tiring of plants? If you would do this, would in them a slight
mistrust of the seriousness and gravity of your destiny survived arise.
They want to know what happened to you, nothing more, and more simple
and objective you are, the more credible will play your experiences.
Not one word you need to . Describe The image of the landscape and
the country is entirely self-engendered in the imagination; The less
you say it, the stronger is the imagination of the listeners see it
and that through your own experience, they instinctively go with your
way and see it with your Eyes. It is not at all important that the
image of reality corresponds to the they make of it, is it just that
their mental motion picture formed. This spiritual movement is now
back by the movement of artistic Matter, and so you see again, like
in appearance and character have merged and merge need.

YOUNG:

The
example to me. It makes sense to me that the wandering from one thing
one has set himself, acts in bad faith in art as well as in life,
and I understand also that one can lose the confidence of the reader
in this way. But you said something of glorification and exaltation
and poetic effect of the substance. All this seems to me unnecessary,
once again the truth, the truth is beyond doubt.

OLD MAN:

Certainly,
if there is one and the same thing would be to tell orally or in writing.
In between is such a deep abyss, that he does not mind, not knowledge,
to bridge not truthfulness able, but only artistic genius. It is the
abyss between being and Apparent, between the mirror and the person
in front of it, between life and memory, between the minute, and eternity.
Your lively audience see you, they see you taken excited or depressed,
the spoken word has a very vivid testimony inescapable force by itself,
if you the same true and harrowing story of your journey with the
same Words, write down your oral report, they can absurd and hypocritical
as it were sound reason. So it is again the seemingly exterior, which
produces the artistic effect: the style. About the same simplicity
that the listener can feel without the interference of your special
if you're just a simple and true nature to make the reader of a book
credible to is a half-life of incessant attempts exhausting effort,
agonizing struggle. In Life is self-evident, or we apply a technical
term, the naive one condition in art there is a final consequence,
a summit. It was even, under the warmth of the flames and her own inner delight,
absorbed and dreamy. And Raven knew he must wake her, and, he hoped, without flawing the dream,
to present action.

"Now," he said, "I want you to come with me down to Nan's"--still he dared not put her off
a step from the intimacy of neighborly relations by presenting Nan more formally--"and spend
the night there. In the morning, you'll go back to Boston with her. I shall enter a complaint
against your husband."

It wasn't so hard to give Tenney the intimacy of that name, now she looked so sweetly calm.
She started from her dream, glanced up at him and, to his renewed discomfort, broke into a
little laugh. It was sheer amusement, loving raillery too, of him who could give her the priceless
gift of a God made man and then ask her to forsake the arena where the beasts were harmless
now because she no longer feared them.

"Why, bless your heart," she said, in a homespun fashion of address that might have been Charlotte's,
"I wouldn't no more run away! An' if you should have him before the judge, I'd no more say
a word ag'inst him! I wouldn't git you into any trouble either," she explained, in an anxious
loyalty. "I'd say you was mistaken, that's all."

Something seemed to break in him.

"What do you mean?" he asked roughly. "What do you think you mean? I suppose you're in love
with him?"

Tira looked at him patiently. She yielded to a little sigh.

"Why," she said, "that's where I belong. I don't," she continued hesitatingly, in her child's
manner of explaining herself from her inadequate vocabulary, "I guess I don't think about them
things much, not same as men-folks think. But there's one or two things I've got to look out
for." Here she gave that quick significant glance at the little mound on the couch. "An' there
ain't no way to do it less'n I stay right there in my tracks."

Raven, his hand gripping the mantel, rested his forehead on it and dark thoughts came upon
him. They quickened his breath and brought the blood to his face and his aching eyes. It was
all trouble, it seemed to him, trouble from the first minute of his finding her in the woods.
She might draw some temporary comfort from his silent championship, in the momentary safety
of this refuge he had given her. But he could by no means cut her knot of difficulty. She was
as far from him as she had been the moment before he saw her. She was speaking.

"It ain't," she said, in a low voice, "it ain't that I don't keep in mind what you've done
for me, what you're doin' all the time. But I guess you don't see what you've done this night's
the most of all. Now you've told me you know it's true"--here she was shy before the talk of
god-head--"why, I know it's so, too. An' I sha'n't ever be afraid any more. I sha'n't ever
feel alone."

"But Tira," he felt himself saying to her weakly, "I feel alone."

Did he actually say it, he wondered. No, for he lifted his face from his shielding hand and
turned miserable eyes upon her, and her eyes met him clearly. Yet they were deeper, softer,
moved by a sad compassion. There was something patiently maternal in them, as if she had found
herself again before the old sad question of man's uncomprehended desires. She spoke, strangely
he thought then, and afterward he wondered if she actually had said the thing at all.

"There's nothin' in the world I wouldn't do for you, not if 'twas anyways right. But----" and
again she gave that fleeting glance of allegiance to the child.

He tried impatiently to pull himself together. She must see there was something hideous in
his inability to make her safe, something stupid, also.

"Tira," he said, "you don't understand. Sometimes I think you don't realize what might happen
to you. And it's silly to let it happen, foolish, ignorant. If some one told you there was
a man outside your door and he wanted to kill you, you'd lock the door. Now there's a man inside
your house, inside your room, that wants to kill you. Yes, he does," he insisted, answering
the denial in her face, "when he's got one of his brain storms. Is there anything to pride
yourself on in staying to be killed?" 

The poet had created his own myth. It has remained. The development society of states, peoples,
the intellectual and social revolutions, the immense, through the ongoing decentralization and the
constant shifting of the castes and classes ever-growing wealth of possibilities fate, all these
circumstances have a tendency strengthened for the separation. Scarcely more families a natural
balance, based on the tradition Form a whole, the community, the polis, the state and the nation
are already artificial and accidental Compositions. The spiritual awakening of millions of individuals
offers a great course Spectacle, and it is only the question whether it by the given freedom
in the boundless just increases to infinity and disastrous.

As the poet believed and therefore lack the evidence base of the national myth, it is necessary
He replaced him from its interior. In place of the living tradition does that of the literature,
and instead of natural language, the myth, in which he at all speaking, there is the style. His
thought, be looked to be dreamed Will be, his personal experience, his view of the world, his
fight against the company, its Relationship to nature, all this compacted simplified, depicts
the beauty and transforms for the poet is now a myth, it is only when he is an artist at the same time,
if He melted down all the elements of life into art elements and the personal in a Divine has
changed.

This requires not only a huge job ahead of a holy seriousness, a force for renunciation and a desire
for solitude and self-depression, which the poet to perfect slaves make his task that he must
be master of the work, but it also calls for the Receiving a property that is mentioned almost
congeniality and of course only chosen by spirits, at least initially, then later by the tradition
of Education, style and culture is the same tradition, that make use of the descendant and he
must also fight to get herself out. So full of runs never a harmonious Power play, everything
is a struggle and isolation, and demonstrates the misunderstanding not to give consent.

In brief: the creative individual, real-mythical replaced by the fictitious, mythical, the the
more important and great, the greater up his mind, his gaze, his inner World, his genius is.
He succeeds by indefatigable industry, through red-hot world-snatch, even forgotten world-seeing,
exterminate be selfish and make quasi-personal the fictitious-Personal to give. This is denied
to the writers, including the psychologist. True, he also draws from all the food yourself,
dig a world of his chest, experienced deep and true, but since he does not possess the gift of transformation,
he remains always the he was just changing from one plant to another, from one form to another,
never up in the divine, and he is far from the people - as the creative person, and far from
God - like the people. He does not change into the glorious, fictive, and his Figures do not,
they do not occur in the eternal region in the sphere of higher truth the simplified life, they
remain chained him fed, keep on searching, erring, suffering, Unliberated, and they are to
be messengers to the world of him, from his God, messengers, it necessarily, to himself, his
pain, his shame, his ambition, his loneliness (to him but a well-won, would not be a forced yoke)
to testify to tell. People However, in their curiosity, their vanity, the lust of mirror images,
to revelations unveiled perceive secrets, reservations and destroyed under the pressure of need is
not in it a Parable of the divine is not an idea, but for humanity, a reality. The they thank him, they
admire him, she moves in with him. His vigilance keeps awake, his emotion, they scattered, it
takes its accuracy, its tension delighted to understand her, his solitude and mourn for them,
in particular, they find a parable for themselves, and that is something different, much happier,
more credible and more charming than with the creative people where they are a metaphor for
the divine, the synthesis.

Of course, as little of the creative person today for the people themselves,
has the lively, organic Totality of a culture period, as little of
the writer as a psychologist.

The former has a community a spiritual Polis, which grows in power, the psychologist has an audience.
And what is a Audience? There are the "wounded", the curious, the bored, a disorderly horde
by guerrillas of education, the choice lots, wicked, disjointed and totally wicked. Therein
rests the deepest pain of the psychologists, and therefore it is success, applause and Echo never
a pleasure. What it does it also mean to have the wicked for you? He who suffers but the fact that
he is godless?

With the satisfaction that is not free from the joy of standing over,
he may look on him was created for the straight "audience" and no
longer suffers from the fact that he is impious.

That is:

The writer as a tribune

It comes mostly from modest circumstances
and aware of the need, the physical as mental.

Two things have raised him, his ambition and the word. His ambition was at first only externally,
he aimed at improving the social position, but was later mental distracted from the inflows
refined both as direction, because the ministry of the Word is a drudgery, each of enjoyment of life
destroyed. How to play this ambition with which it entertains, like a wisp with the hikers.

The bound on the purpose of soul can exhilarate the spirit, but she
gives him a vehement Pressed in the momentum driven by steam lever.

The writer is a psychologist as a tribune of the factual and he is commentator and propagandist;
Standard-bearer of everything new; observer who draws conclusions infallible; alchemist of surprises
moralist and the practical application, the absurd exaggeration, distortion of the trivial, the
adversary of the obvious; deny the rare, rare find, recognized and preacher of the Genius
up to the hour when the genius unfolds completely. He is the master of adaptation, the instigators
of the stumps, the police of the rebels, arsonists and physician, he is much In many ways,
all in all. He is dependent on the moment between two days without to think of the previous one,
without having to hold the present, without the following to . Know He is like the captain of
a passenger steamer, for each trip is other people around him, never congenial, never prepared,
never those of his power of the last trip remember her, and he has all the conditions of his
actions and his strength every time expose anew. The change of the passengers to take place under
constant fraction of jobs created Covenants and agreements, consistent change in the forms and norms.

What
he brings is his person, this is remembered well.

The reason it is the name has the weight and sound, an air of terror, the command, authority,
passion around with. The benefit is weighed in the name of the person walking on the performance of time.

Who
is more unhappy than he? Enforce trust, recognition, acceptance and friendship effort to conquer
with all the means of the mind, everything to lose again when the
day comes used.

Again as in the beginning he must use his person and expose, always with the whole Elan or,
no less unsettling, is the gesture of the whole Elan. If he had not the gesture, so he'd plundered,
ausgeschlürft and emptied, as the diversity the tasks that are put to him, and the distraction
of interests, to collect, meet to deal with its main mission is to compel him, everything he
receives, immediately to resell. The creative person is not destitute, nourish it deep roots;
his real personality is fueled by his mythical and fictional. His loneliness is fictitious,
because it has the shape that it is connected even when no ear has heard him, No eye saw him. Reality
is merely an allegory for him, so he creates the world second time.

In contrast, the writer as a tribune is the loneliest of all people, all forged in itself, completely
detached from the world. What it protects and comforts him relentlessly, as it were blinded
does what gets his ambition on fire is the word.

He has an innate love of words, and it would be surprising if he sometimes it was not a poet. The word
is his companion, he goes with him as with a friend, he flirts with him as with a Child, he cared
for it like a lover, and by the power of words penetrated to the core. Is he a coward by nature,
he is by the word brave, so daring, hiding behind the word He himself, he hides his poverty,
his doubts, his envy, his insecurity. The word gives it character, boosts his will, corrected
and concealed its mistakes and gives him exactly the form that he wishes to present. He is impenetrable
by using the Word, as if the word would be a tank, invisible and undetectable after the word, a strange
Counterpart to the creative person who is hidden behind the form. But creating words not the
figure, only actions, movements (of the body or the soul). Then words entirely different Valeur,
yes, very different organisms, interpreted, not said. The word as Such hides the shape and makes
them invisible.

At a time like the present, in the immense wealth of things, the face, the operations of opinions,
knowledge worthy, the new, the rapid exchange of values, of enormous Magnification intellectual
holdings in frightening instability of property is the writer indispensable
as a tribune.

He is the one who weighs, the judges, who taught that the Great Coin the spiritual governments in the
small coin of the traffic converts, the common education, knowledge wakes, insights and promotes
in all matters of public life and highest last instance.

This would be a very beneficial activity with beneficial effects, one would think. Man would have to
believe that such a steady and vigorous participation in the general welfare, the arts and
Culture, psychological growth and spiritual progress without selflessness,
without sense of sacrifice and no true objectivity is not possible.

Let us see in more detail.

sense of sacrifice can be no question of where a wage, even the lowest wages of all views is?
Can be any talk of selflessness, where an action is used to the glory
of a to increase name?

It may lead to a true passion for one thing, and he has yet not the true objectivity, once
under the protection of his person and under the shield his name is done. Sense of sacrifice
and selflessness, that would be resolution of anonymity, - Seen in, I mean, for I will not even
compromise with the concepts and the phenomena close. That the anonymity of the Tribune yes
sometimes even harm his honor can and must be heard, to another field and it is this is a
significant cultural symbol, which the culture, not the accused, what I mean by anonymity.

What
is asking but you? against it, keep to myself. If the sense of sacrifice, selflessness, objectivity
insufficient, the Tribune as the writer is in his finest type, which would then adequately? What
would happen without him?

Who would do its work, which, as I said, indispensable is already equivalent because of habit and the
entrenched tendencies? Maybe those required by the resolution and the anonymity can do? The
act by act, by the figure, not by words. However, the creative individual is anonymous? He reached an
equivalent status by the myth in which Zeus as he vanishes in a cloud. But where the myth would
be for the writer as a tribune? He can not have, for the word is the myth flatly contrary.

So again this would be the time to blame, which has created a culture of a Sum of their individual
cultures, which swears by the individualism and subtle in their emotions, hours in their ominous
still, they hardly know how, matter pays homage.

The person that's just the matter in a nutshell. One wonders what will happen without the beneficial
activity would that unfolds as a tribune of the writer. The ways of education would become desolate;
certain. But It is not enough of education that only an improvement of the personal, personal Power
of personal expression, personal growth targets? If not all Springs to rest once for admitting
a soothing mental twilight, in which the souls find each other, would reach the conflict of opinions,
the battle of words for discharge could? I do not claim that this formation is only an appearance, it
can also an inner be Strong Player of the mind, cleaning woman of heart, but she is not religious,
never will lead man to myth, his great wealth, the great silence, the great moderation, the big
picture and give his heart to get rid of inertia, which is a consequence of individual is isolated,
it will always verpersönlichen him, the servant of the word, make the literal, to the individual.

But
the word is just one feature, the feature actually. It has all areas of thought and captures the
emotion, the spirit world and the world of sense. It is useful colonizer any wilderness and the rash destroyer
of mystery. It has only a short breath, a fleeting existence, but it has the power to renew
itself again and again by itself. What it touches, has called occurs inalienable in the district
of the known and conscious, in the spell of the opinions and judgments,
is studied and classified, is there and is ready as rare in a museum,
such as natural history in a collection, where they stop a free, organic
and anonymous existence result.

What was even more idea yesterday, today, there is certainty, tomorrow it is a sound. The
route from the living word to the keywords decide the brevity of the path from faith to de-godding,
to the bondage of anarchy. In the middle of the Looking floats a phantom of faith and law,
it is not faith, it is fear, fatalism; It is not law, it is inertia, rationalism - barriers
from chaos.

Will the letters out as a tribune of the word, he enters the sphere of the dilettante or to the
psychologist, said he conjures shadows that he takes for figures. But within his range he is inimitable,
and will develop his talents to perfection. Since he lives in the air of the word, he breathes
in all the words that float above it all over man, about art and nature. He is able they will
bind to grind, so to that they accept in all circumstances his character and the color of his personality.
This is not style, the style is distance and silence, image and rhythm,
it is the word in its sensuality and intimacy, be single and protozoa,
the naive, receiving party, promotional and symbolic loose.

Thus it was in its place, a lack of speech. This reveals his Hermaphroditism, as well as the
dilemma of the writer as a tribune. The speech calls for hearing not Curious, inquisitive,
not bored, the volatile sit up and forgotten, when the day turns to their participation for Read
only a mask of exhaustion and the Overfeeding their enthusiasm even as they buy themselves thereby
from an obligation only an artificial form of indifference or say is objectivity, but the Speech
calls for a looped tape of common vital interests of the community. The writer as tribune sitting
there, more trivial, between two chairs. To the speech he lacks the social Basis, a uniform company
involved, the written word has quite different Resonnanzen and claims, in the place of the will to act
of ambition does the word he is to become a writer, without feeling or admit that this is only
one surrogate, and the impossibility of a general policy, better comfort transformative effect
he deals with the recognition of individuals, with the enthusiasm of the indifferent, with
the Approval of colleagues and a fame that is made of paper.

An inevitable consequence of the lack of hearing is the increasing number of those who themselves
say something like. This depends on the strange mistake of human nature, that they give to have
to believe what they do not receive. The increasing individualism acts appealing to the individual,
a phantom of liberty aping him, and he shall automatically from the chain before it has reached
maturity, was completed by the silent work of the sexes must be. Each such individual is a
"talent". The talent is a detached, the myth Separate, acting on their own. The talents are magicians,
not a priest in the modern World, sectarian, not apostles, and what they owe the time, entertainment,
diversion, Stress, tension (which carries out the bracing as a revenge), but they are paying
through an intellectual tyranny and the predominance of its specific
nature, which the internally Uncertain, not deny randomly collected.

Talent is like the moon, it always shows only one side: the literary, the human is invisible
- a division of fatal Quality, anywhere and must eventually lead to bankruptcy.

How often do we see that "in favor of the" Literature is the human sacrifice. We must forgo a face
for us to delight in disguises. The art is separated from Life. Now there are cases where a man is
so full of an experience that he forced himself felt to represent it.
 Several years ago, about when I finished writing in
this book, I saw I should have to give up questioning myself and calling on God. There were
no answers. If there were, He didn't mean to let me have them. I mustn't keep on. It was dangerous.
I got no good out of it and I should come to harm. And if I had got to live, I must be as near
like other folks as I could. So I must be as busy as I could. And it came to me that over beyond
the mountain there were folks poorer than I am, and that knew less, a good deal less. I didn't
know anything about God, but I did know I must keep clean and eat the right food. So I begun
to take long tramps round the countryside, and wherever I went I'd try to find out the sick
and, if the family was poor, work for them a while and sit up with the sick one, and, if he
was discouraged, try to help him through.

"So it happened I was away from the hut a good deal of the time, and I got an idea the Ravens
liked that. It must have touched their pride to have Old Crow living up here alone, queer as
Dick's hat-band. Whichever way I fixed it, I was a kind of a curse: for when I went off on
my wanderings I was a tramp and the news of it came back home, and I often think the boy's
mother was sorry and wished I wouldn't, though even that was better than my being around, toleing
off the boy. I liked my wanderings, in summer best of all. But in winter the folks needed me
more, shut up so in tight houses, catching colds in bad air, and it got so when they were sick
they'd send for me and I was proper pleased to go. And they came to have a kind of a trust
in me, and I was nearer being contented than I'd been in my whole life. Because the questions
didn't come hardly at all, now. I was too busy by day and too tired at night. So it went on
till one day I came to old Billy Jones's little house, where he lived all alone in the dirt
and filth. It was just at the foot of the mountain and no neighbors under half a mile. I say
he lived there, but he wasn't there more than a third of the time. The boy will remember how
he used to go along the road, full as a tick, and the school children making fun of him and
then running before he could get at them. I don't know as he would, though. There never was
any harm in him, only he did neglect himself so he was an awful sight. And the only time he
was in his little house was when he'd been hired out haying or something, and got his money
and spent it and come back with crackers and cheese in his old carpet bag, to sober up.

"This day I was speaking about (it was October and no wind) I was going by his house and I
saw a smoke coming out of the chimney, and I thought old Billy had come home to sober up. But
I hadn't hardly got to the house before I heard him calling me, and I looked and there he was
in the front door leaning on a cane.

"'You come in here,' says he, and I went in.

"It was a terrible hog's nest, his front room was, but I paid no attention, for that's the
way he lived. He sat down in a chair and made a motion with his hand for me to come near, and
I did, and he took my hand and put it on his knee.

"'Feel that,' he says. 

If for the study of the physical part of the mathematics of music an indispensable Key supplies, so
may not be over-estimated in the final tone work, however its importance. In a tone poem, it is
the best or the worst, is nothing mathematically calculated. Creations of the imagination are
not arithmetic. All Monochordexperimente, sound figures, Interval proportions and the like do not belong
here, the aesthetic area is just beginning, where those elementary conditions have ended in
their meaning. The mathematics governs only the basic substance to spirit capable of treating
and plays hidden in the simplest conditions, But the musical idea comes to light without them. If Oerstedt
asks: "Should probably the Lifetime of several mathematicians suffice all the beauty of a Mozart
symphony charge? "[23], so I confess that I do not understand. What does that or can be calculated
be? About the vibration ratio of each tone to the next, or the lengths of the each period to today?
What is a tone poem to music and make it out of line physical experiments raises, is a free,
spiritual, therefore unpredictable. The musical Work of art, mathematics an equally small or
as large as the share creations the other arts. For mathematics must result in the end the hand of
the painter and sculptor, Mathematics weaves the symmetry of the verse and stanza lengths, Mathematics
in the construction of the architects, in the figures of the dancer. In any exact knowledge, the
application of mathematics, as Reasoning, to find a job. Only a really positive, creative force
we must you do not want to admit, as some musicians, these conservatives of aesthetics, like
want. It is similar to mathematics, such as the generation of emotions in the audience - it
takes place in all the arts, but it's just a great noise in the music.

[23] "spirit in nature", 3 Band of German Kannegießer. P. 32

  

Even with the language you have to parallelize the music often and the laws of the former set
up for the latter tried. The relationship of the song with the language was close enough, might
we now hold in the equality of the physiological conditions or at their common character as alienation
of the Interior by the human voice. The analog Relations are too obvious, but that we had to take
it here and it was therefore only expressly acknowledged that where it is really the music merely
the subjective alienation an inner urge to act, in part, in fact, the legality of the speaking people
be relevant to the singing is. That the passion rises in Gera Tende with the voice, while the voice
is soothing to the speaker, that sets specific weight slowly unimportant side issues are spoken
quickly and this is like the song composer particularly dramatic, may not be ignored. But one has
to this limited analogies is not content, but the music itself as a (more vague or finer) Interpreted
language and now want their abstract beauty of the language laws of nature. Each property and
effect of music was attributed to similarities with the language. We believe that where it is the
specificity of an art, their differences from related fields are more important than the similarities.
Undeterred by this often tempting but the real essence of music analogies must not be taken the
aesthetic investigation continually advance to the point where language and music differ irreconcilably.
Only from this point of music can be truly fruitful sprout provisions. The main fundamental difference,
however, is that in the language of sound only a sign ie means for the purpose of this center is very
strange to be expressed, while in the Music, the sound is one thing, that acts as an end in
itself. The beauty of self- Clay forms here and the absolute rule of thought about the tone
as a mere means of expression there are opposite so exclusively, that mixing of the two principle
a logical impossibility.

The focus of the system is thus quite different from where the language and the music, and to this
focus group all the other peculiarities. All specific musical Laws will be about the self-importance
and beauty of the tones, all language Laws to ensure the correct
use of the sound for the purpose of expression.

The most harmful and most confusing views have emerged from a desire to Music as a kind of language
to be understood, they show us daily on practical consequences.

It was necessary It appears mainly composers of weak creativity suited to them unattainable
be regarded as a false self-musical beauty, sensuous principle, and the characteristic importance
of music for it to lift the shield. Quite apart from Richard Wagner's operas, can be found in the smallest
Instrumentalsächelchen often breaks the melodic flow through ragged cadences, recitative phrases
and the like, which, the Listeners do strange, as if they meant something special, while in
fact mean nothing as ugliness. Of modern compositions, which continued during the great Rhythm
to break through to press forward mysterious additives or frequent contrasts, it usually goes
to boast, it is the music striving to break through their tight borders and language, to be raised.
We are such praise always seemed very ambiguous. The boundaries of music are certainly not
tight, but pinned pretty accurate. The music will never "discussed charge "- would have to stoop
to actually say the musical point of view - by the Music to anyone that would be an increased
language [24].

[24] It must not be forgotten that one of the most brilliant, greatest of all time contributed
by its shine to this Favorite lie of modern music criticism of the
"internal pressure of the Music for the determination of verbal language
"and" to throwing off the eurhythmischen shackles.

  " We think Beethoven's Ninth. " It is one of those intellectual watershed,
  which is widely visible and insurmountable are opposite between the flow
  Lay beliefs.
  
  The musicians, which the magnificence of the "intention", the spiritual
  Importance of the abstract task of all is to make the ninth Symphony
  at the head of all music, while the small crowd, which, to overcome
  the position of beauty be holding, for purely aesthetic demands fighting
some of their admiration Restrictions set.

  How to guess, it is preferably the finale, as the high beauty of the
  first three sentences in prepared and attentive listeners hardly a dispute
  will arise. In this last sentence we could never be more than the giant
  shadow to see that casts a giant body. The size of the idea that to
  Despair lonely mind last in the joy of all the to bring
  reconciliation, one can understand and fully recognize and yet the music
  of the last sentence (with all her genius Peculiarity related) ugly.
  The general condemnation, which such special opinion falls, we know very
  well. One of the most ingenious and versatile scholars of Germany, the
  1853 the "A. Allgemeine Zeitung, "the formal principles of the ninth
  Symphony undertook to challenge, therefore, recognized the humorous
  Need to be limited to the same title for a "head" to explain. He explained
  the aesthetic monstrosity which the several movements which eject
  an instrumental composition in a choir involved, and compares Beethoven
  with a sculptor, legs, Abdomen, chest, arms, a figure made of colorless
  marble, the head but colored. One would think that any sensitive receiver
  at the end Entry of the human voice, the same uneasiness about to come,
  must 'Because here the work of art with a jerk changes its focus and
  thereby threatens to knock the handset. " Almost a decade later we experienced
  the joy that the "limited mind" as David Strauss unmasked.
  
  Other hand, called Dr. Becher, who here as representative of a whole
  Class may appear on a printed paper in 1843, the Ninth Symphony, fourth
  sentence, "the other with any existing Tonwerke peculiarity in the design
  of such magnificence of the Composition and boldest expansion of the
  individual thoughts completely "Inkommensurabeln outflow of Beethoven's
  genius and assured this work, he stood "with Shakespeare's King
  Lear and about a Dozen other emanations of the human spirit in its
  highest poetic power in the Himalayan mountains in the art as Dhawalagirispitze,
even his equal comrades "outstanding.

  Like almost all his Feedback comrades is a detailed description of
  the cup Importance of the "content" of each of the four movements and
  its deep Symbolism - the music happens not with one syllable Mention.
  This is highly characteristic of a whole school musical criticism that
  the question of whether music is beautiful, with avoid the profound
  discussion loves what she Large mean.
  
  This is also our singer, who in moments of greatest emotion words,
  even sentences forgotten Spoken and come out to have been, the highest
  increase in music believe. They overlook the that the transition from
  singing to speaking is always a fall, as the maximum normal Speechtone
  still lower than even the lower vocal tones sounds the same organ.
  As bad as these practical consequences, even worse, because
  allsogleich by experiment beaten, are the theories that the music
  of development and construction law force upon the language you want,
  as in earlier times some of Rousseau and Rameau, in Recently,
  the disciples of R. Wagner will be tried.

It is here the true heart of the Music, which satisfied itself in the form of beauty, pierced
and the phantom of the "meaning" chased. An aesthetics of music, it would place them among their
most important tasks the fundamental difference between the nature of music and the language relentlessly
demonstrate and kept all the implications of the principle that where there are specific-Musical
in wasting the analogies with the language every application.

IV

Analysis of the subjective impression of the music.

We also consider it as a principle and first task of the musical aesthetics that they usurped dominion
of feeling among the legitimate place of beauty - not because the Feeling, but the imagination,
as the activity of pure contemplation, the institution is, for any
and for which all the beauty of art is created first - as yet claim
the affirmative statements of feeling in a practical musical life
to striking and important role by mere submission to be dismissed.

As much to keep the aesthetic look only at the artwork itself, it turns but in reality this
is independent work of art as an effective middle between two living forces: its origin and
its destiny, ie, to the composer and the listener. In the mental life of these two, the artistic
work is not the imagination as to pure Metal can be eliminated, as is present in the final, impersonal
work of art - rather Does it always there, in close correlation with feelings and sensations.
The feeling is Thus, before and after the finished work of art, first
in composer, then in the handset, a meaning claim that we withdraw
our attention should not.

Consider the composer. It will meet during the creation an upscale atmosphere, as for the Liberation
of beauty out of the shaft of the imagination be thought hardly dispensable can. That this elevated
mood, to the individuality of the artist, more or less the color of the growing work of art to assume
that they will soon flood the high, sometimes excessive, but never to the overwhelming emotions,
frustrated artistic spawning, that a clear reflection claims to be at least equal importance with
the enthusiasm, - These are known, the general theory of art belonging
provisions.

More specifically, the Work of the composer is concerned, it must be noted that there is a constant
form, a tonal forms. Nowhere will the sovereignty of the feeling that you imputed so fond of music,
placed worse than if they were in the composer during requires the creation and interprets
this as an enthusiastic improvise. The walking pace pre-existing work, through which a piece
of music that the composer first only in outline envisaged until gouged in the individual bars
to specific shape is, at best the same in the sensitive formal variety of the orchestra, is
as sober and complicated, that they can barely understand, who do not even put hands on it
once. Not just about fugal or contrapuntal principles in which we consider gauging note against
note, and the flowing Rondo, the melodious aria requires, as our language is important, calls
a "working out" the smallest. The work of the composer is plastic in nature and that of the
visual artist comparable. Similarly, as the composer of his material may not free be grown, because,
like him, he has added make his (musical) ideal objective, to create a pure form.

That might have been overlooked by Rosenkranz, perhaps, if he noticed the contradiction, but leaves
unresolved why the women who still rely chiefly on the nature of feeling ? Have got to play in the
composition of nothing [25] The reason - besides the general conditions which women of intellectual
creations also keep - just in the plastic moment of composition, which is not a renunciation of
subjectivity less, although in different Direction demanded, as the visual arts. If the strength
and vitality of feeling really relevant for the composer would be would the total absence of female
composers along with so many writers and painters are hard to explain. Not Feeling composed,
but specifically musical, artistically trained talent.

Delightful It sounds, therefore, if the FL Schubart »masterful Andante Composer Stamitz" quite
seriously as a natural "consequence of his emotional heart" hinstellt, [26] or Christian Role assures
us, "an affable, affectionate nature makes us skillful, slow Sentences "to make masterpieces. [27]

[25]
Rosenkranz, psychology. 2. Edition p. 60

[26] Schubart, "ideas on the aesthetics of music". 1806th

[27] New perceptions to accommodate the music. "Berlin 1784th P. 102

Without central heat, nothing has been accomplished great or beautiful in life. The feeling is
the composer, as with any poet who developed rich find, but it is not the generating factor in
it. Even if a strong, certain pathos filled him completely, so that the same occasion and
dedication are some art, but - as we in the wild of music to know
which portray a particular affect neither the ability nor the Profession
has - never the object.

  

  

  An inner singing, not a mere inner feeling drives the musically talented
to Invention of a piece of music.

We have interpreted the act of composing as a form and as such it is quite objectively. The
composer formed an independent beauty. The infinitely more expressive, spiritual Substance
of the sounds it makes, that the subjectivity in them fine in the way of his Forming characteristics.
Since even the individual musical elements, a characteristic expression
is, they are dominant traits of the composer: sentimentality, energy,
cheerfulness etc., through the consistent preference of certain keys,
rhythms, transitions very well expressed by the general factors which
is capable of playing music.

Once absorbed by the artwork, but these traits are interested now than musical determinations
as the character of the composition, not the composer.

[28] As the emotional and what the witty Composer brings the graceful or the sublime is, first
and foremost music, objective Structure. Her works are distinguished by distinctive characteristics
and as an overall picture mirrored the individuality of their creators, but they were all that
one like the others, created as an independent beauty purely musical for her sake.

[28] Which caution in drawing conclusions from the compositions on the human character of the
composer is necessary and what is clearly a danger that the imagination for the sober examination
Detriment of truth influenced, which has recently include the Beethoven's biography of AB Marx, and the working
musically biased panegyric of a careful examination of the Facts about to be lifted and therefore believed
by Thayer's exact Source research in many areas has been drastically revised.

Not the actual feeling of the composer, as a merely subjective affection, it is which evokes
the same mood in the listeners.

  Acknowledged is the music such a compelling power arises, it is recognized
  by the cause as something objective in it, for only this forces in
  everything beautiful. These lenses are the musical determinations
  of a piece. Strictly aesthetic can be said of any subject, it
  sounds dull, or not proud, But it was an expression of pride or
  turbid feelings of the composer. Still farther are the character
  of musical works such as the social and political conditions, which
  dominate his time.

That musical expression of the theme is a necessary consequence his way and no other elected
Tonfaktoren; that this choice of psychological or cultural history Causes would have emerged on
which certain works (not merely of the year and place of birth) be demonstrated, and demonstrated
this relationship would be interesting as always, first a merely historical or biographical
fact. The aesthetic consideration can be based on circumstances which are beyond the artwork
itself.

As surely as the individuality of the composer in his creations, a symbolic expression find
is so wrong it would be to want to derive from this personal moment terms, their true reasoning only in the objectivity
of the artistic image found. Then , the notion of style. [29]

[29] Forkel panacea is wrong therefore derive the various thinking musical spellings of "the
difference" that the style of each composer is a reason that "the
enthusiastic, the inflated, the cold, childish and pedantic Man in
the context of his thoughts and unbearable pomposity Emphasis brings,
or is affected and frosty.

" (Theory of music. 1777th P. 23)

We want to be understood in the style of music on the part of his musical determinations Know as
the consummate art, as in the expression of creative thought as a
habit appears.

  The master proven "style, in that he clearly grasped the idea
  of ​​realizing everything Petty, inappropriate, trivial and so omitted
  in every technical detail of the artistic Attitude of the whole maintains
  consistently. With Vischer (aesthetics § 527) we would be the word "Style"
  in music, use absolute and, disregarding the historical and individual
  Divisions say, this composer has style, in the sense that we say of someone:
  he has Character.

The architectural side of the Music and Fine joins the style in question quite clearly the fore.
A higher law than the mere proportions, the style of a Piece of music by a single clock injured,
who, blameless in itself, is not reflected of it all right. Just as an inappropriate in the
arabesque structure, we call a bad taste Cadence or modulation, which, as inconsistency from uniform
application of the concept jump off.
 But this I
know: God is. He lives. And He is sorry. The boy may tell me this is no more than the words
about His caring for the sparrow that falleth. But I tell him it is more to me, for this I
have found out for myself. And I have found it out through great tribulation. But the tribulation
is not now. It has stopped. It stopped with the sound of old Billy Jones's voice I heard--somehow
I heard it--when his body lay in there dead. And I am not afraid. I am not afraid of fear--even
for the little animals--and that is more than for myself. And that is my legacy to the boy.
He must not be afraid."

There it ended, and Raven sat for a long time looking at the fine painstaking script and seeing,
for the moment, at least, the vision of Old Crow. He felt a great welling of love toward him,
a longing to get hold of him somehow and tell him the journal had done its work. He understood.
And it meant to him, in its halting simplicity, more than all the books he had ever read on
the destiny of man. Meager as it was, it seemed to him something altogether new, because it
had come out of the mind of an ignorant man, if a man can be called ignorant who has used his
mind to its full capacity of thought and unconsciously fitted it, so far as he might, to the
majestic simplicities of the Bible. Old Crow had never read anything about legend or the origins
of belief. There were no such books then at Wake Hill. He read no language but his own. Whatever
he had evolved, out of the roots of longing, had been done in the loneliness of the remote
shepherd who charts the stars. And in the man himself Raven had found a curious companionship.
Their lives seemed to have run a parallel course. Old Crow, like himself, was a victim of world
sickness. And his wound had been cleansed; he had been healed.

Raven did give a little smile to the thought that, at least, the man had been saved one thing:
he had no authoritative Amelia on his track to betray him to organized benevolence. If you believe that things went from our delegates at the post office laughed some ears, or not
come to the right receiver is, so is not required on a provisional basis, rather than to write
a piece of paper: that one of this or that day, a letter with as much Money, or a packet of
this or that, had provided for this or that place to the post, which, according to the received
message is not supposed to be about so we arrived and the delivery satisfactory information, or replacement
of the value expected. - On such a display the Post then see to that even have to correct the
matter and the correspondents to . Satisfy -

However, the fear that ears laughed at the post office letters go = =, the most part unfounded.
- One can safely assume that comes from a million letters a little lost. One could do not find
it strange ears laughed when several would. The Post is a widely compound, very complicated institution
that is operated only by people, but because of a verlohrnen or missing letter usually have
large and long noise is made. Often should but ask first if the letter had also missed really
delivered the mail, or whether have not the same, or the required response in the house hiding
the correspondents themselves? - In most cases, you can almost always be-ing assured that the
loss of a letter not caused by the Postofficianten, since they have many causes, in their care
To keep things comfortable. - However, it may eräugnen that letters from an unusually small size were
located in larger, to which it is packed and with which they are mixed, have dragged, or that
two letters by means of soft wafer, and bad paint, which they were sealed, stuck to each other.
The postal servants, it was forgivable, if them in the hurry of their business and the quantity
of letters and hands-do things this accident not discovered: but the one in whose hands a stray
that way Fell letter was in fact guilty, give the same back, which is not always happens.


Raven stood looking at him for an instant, and suddenly he remembered Old Crow, who had accomplished
the salvation of a sick heart and bequeathed the treasure to him.

"Yes," he said, more tolerantly than he had ever spoken to Tenney. "I think I did."

Was it his imagination that Tenney looked disappointed?

"Last night?" the man insisted. "Did you find it last night? Through me?"

"No," said Raven. "I didn't find it through you."

Tenney was ingenuously taken aback.

"There is one way," he said, "into the sheepfold--only one."

He turned about, muttering, and Raven, looking after him, thought he was an ugly customer. "I had been
entertained hopes that by saying what you me to always be destroyed. Miss Luise "he continued, with
a burning gaze," did these hopes, they gave me the same not previously taken. They had demanded
a year to give me a definite answer, and now I see that she needed only such a short period
to learn about their choice of to determine heart. "

Painfully struggling for composure, he leaned on the back of a chair.

Louise looked at him with a soft glance from her bright eyes open.

She quickly came to him and gave him her hand.

"No one is master of the feelings of his heart," she said - "You were the friend of my childhood,
stay my friend for my future life and forgive me if I have the feeling could not say that you
wore to meet me - you will forget that, "she added easy to add, -
"They will certainly, as I wish with all my heart, at a other choice
but to find happiness than I could offer you.

"

Mr. Vergie had reluctantly taken the hand of the young girl for a moment.

"It's not just the pain of losing my dear," he said in a still from Half-stifled excitement
and uncertain voice, "what moves me, but I am French, and it cuts me to the heart that I am the
daughter of my friend whose happiness my dear is, as my own to see their country alienate. The war
with the Prussians, which is threatening to our borders, is only a matter of time. It is prepared
by both Pages, he must come, everyone in France feels that it has repeatedly German spies discovered
by us. And already Voices have been raised, "he continued, always eager by his face twitched with
excitement, and his eyes like daggers points on the young immigrants taught - "Voices have been raised
already, which would assert that this Hanoverian have been legion, which breaks up so suddenly,
the cloak is to provide accurate clientele get over the internal affairs of our country. - And
if I should think, "said he's not more powerful in that a light foam
came on his lips, - "that my should be loved a tool in the hands of
an enemy of France - - "

A bright Zornröthe flared up from the face of the young Hanoverian, with a rapid Step he went
up to Mr. Vergie, with a threatening movement, he raised his hand
-

Louise threw herself at him, pleading she folded her hands, her
eyes were fixed with magnetic force on her lover.

This could slow the arms drop, the expression of his face was calm, almost gentle and mild.

"I told you, unwittingly, done woe, my lord," he said, "I joined disturbing in the hopes of your
heart, I understand your pain and your excitement - I must forgiven much, - but words, as you
have just expressed, should never be a man of honor one else to say. I came to France, "he
continued," in the service of my king and as an enemy of that power, who believe as you do,
connect with your Fatherland in fight should. This alone should protect me from such a miserable
and low suspicion, as you pronounced him against me, but I think Mr and Miss Louise Challier know me enough,
and you know I should know enough to believe that even if I'm not as Hanoverian and would come
as Legionaire of King George, but I would be unable, in such As to deceive trust and hospitality.
When you think about it calmly, be Let me do justice and, "he added, with open sincerity," I
hope you will forget what I done to you, without meaning to, evil and then come the friendship
that you cared for Mr Challier and his daughter to give to me; Be assured that I will do everything
to get me to make them worthy. "

Louise thanked him with an intimate view her lover for his words.

Mr.
Vergie had mastered with tremendous effort his deep emotion. He waved his cap and called to her:

"She's gone."

"Who?" Nan was coming on with her springing stride, and when she reached him she looked keenly
at him, adding: "What's happened to you, Rookie?"

Nothing had happened to her, he could see. She was always like a piece cut out of the morning
and fitted into any part of the day she happened to be found in: always of a gallant spirit,
always wholesome as apples, always ready. This was not altogether youth. It was, besides, something
notable and particular which was Nan. He laughed out, she caught his mood so deftly.

"Something has happened," he said. "First place, Milly's gone. Second, I've found Old Crow."

"You've found Old Crow? What do you mean by that?"

"Can't tell you now. Wait till we sit down together."

"And she's truly gone?"

They stood there in the road as if Nan's house were not at hand; but the air and the sun were
pleasant to them.

"Gone, bag and baggage. Dick wired and ordered her in some way she didn't dare ignore. I suspect
he did it to save me. 1853rd)

Friedrich
    Thiersch: General aesthetics (Berlin 1846) § 18 P. 101: 'Music is
the art of selection and combination of sounds Feelings and moods
of the mind to express or excite.

    "
    
    A. von Dommer: Elements of Music (London 1862): "The object of the
Musical art: the art of music to emotions and the feeling excite ideas
in us.

    "(p. 174)
    
    Rich. Wagner, "The Art of the Future"

    (1850th Gesamm. Schr III, 99, and similarly elsewhere):
    "The institution of the heart is Tone, his conscious artistic language
    of the art of music. "In the Wagner's later works are admittedly
    more definitions nebulous, since it is the same music "art of
    expression" in general (In Opera and Drama, "Ges writings III, 343)
    to him as an" idea the world "seems capable of," the essence of things
    in his most direct demonstration grasp, "etc. (" Beethoven.
    "1870th P. 6 ff.)
    

II

The 'display of emotions is not the content of the music.

Partly as a consequence of this theory that the feelings for the final
goal of musical effect explains, in part as a corrective to the same,
the record is established: the feelings are the content, which the
art of music had to represent.

The philosophical study of an art to pushing the question of the content thereof. The diversity of
the content of the arts (among themselves) and the related basic difference their design necessarily
follows from the diversity of the senses to which they bound are. Every art is a circle of
ideas which they and their means of expression than clay, Word, paint, stone represents. The
individual work of art embodies a certain idea, therefore as beautiful in sensuous appearance.
This particular idea that they form embodying, and the unity of both
are conditions of the concept of beauty, of which no scientific Fathoming
any art separate anymore.

What is content of a work of poetic and visual art, can be expressed in words and back on terms.
We say: This picture presents a flower girl, this statue a gladiator, an act that poem Roland.
The more or less complete absorption the so-specific content in the
artistic appearance justified then our view of the beauty of the artwork.

As

the content of the music you have quite amicably the whole scale of human emotions named because it
was in this conceptual contrast to the determination and therefore the correct found distinction
between the ideal of forming and sealing of art believed. Therefore be the tones and their skilful
related material only, means of expression which the composer the love, the courage, the devotion,
the rapture is. These feelings in their rich diversity had the idea, which did to the earthly body of the
sound to a musical work of art to walk on earth. What sets us on a lovely melody, harmony and
delight of a thoughtful does not this be yourself, but what it means: the whisper of tenderness,
the Storms of pugnacity.

To get on solid ground, we must first such metaphors relentlessly altverbundene Disconnect: The
whispering? Yes, - but not "of" longing, the storms? However, it not "of" fighting spirit. In
fact, the music has one or the other, they can whisper, rush rush, - the love and anger, but with
only our own heart into it.

The representation of a particular feeling or emotion is not in its
own assets of music.

Namely, the feelings are not isolated in the soul, so that they were from her lift could be an art, which
the presentation of other mental activities is closed. You are on the contrary dependent on
physiological and pathological conditions, are caused by ideas, judgments,
communicate, just short of the whole area and rational thinking, which
one opposes the feeling so much as an opposites.

What makes a sense to that particular feeling? A longing, hope, love? About the mere strength or
weakness, the surge of the internal movement? Certainly not. This may, at different feelings
are the same and again with the same feeling in several individuals, at other times, different.
Only on the basis of a number - in the moments strong feeling perhaps unconscious - ideas and
judgments, our state of mind to this very certain sense condense. The feeling of hope is inseparable
from the idea of ​​a happier state, which is to come and is compared to the present. The Melancholy
compares a past happiness with the present. They are certain specific ideas Terms, without them, without
the thought apparatus, one can not feel the current "hope" "Do not call it nostalgia," he makes
them so. If we abstract from it, remains a vague Movement, possibly the sensation of general well-being
or discomfort. Love can without the idea of ​​a beloved personality, without the desire and the
pursuit of Happiness, glory, the possession of this item are not thought of. Not Type of mere
emotion, but its conceptual core, their real, historical Content makes it the love. Their dynamics
to it can just as gently as vigorous, as well happy to act as painful and still remains love. This
consideration alone is sufficient , to show that music can only express those various accompanying
adjectives, never the substantive, the love itself a certain feeling (a passion, an emotion),
there exists as such, never without a real historical content that just explained only in terms can
be. Tag, the music as "vague language does not reflect conceded legally - Is it not for the psychologically
unablehnbar conclusion that they do not even certain feelings able to express? The determination of
the emotions lies precisely in its conceptual core.

How it is that music still feelings as sadness, can excite mirth, and the like (not necessary) we
want later to be the subjective impression of the music, the speech will be examined. This had
to be found merely in theory, if the music was capable of a certain feeling present. The question
was answered in the negative since the determination of the feelings of concrete ideas and concepts can
not be separated, the latter in addition to the field of design Music lie. - A certain circle
of ideas, however, the music with their very own Funds represent a large volume. These are,
according to their host institution, immediately all those ideas which audible changes to the force
of movement, the proportions belong, so the idea of ​​swelling, of the dying, the Eilens, hesitation,
artificially twisted, just the progressive and the like - they can also the aesthetic Expression
of a musical called graceful, gentle, intense, powerful, delicate, fresh: louder Ideas, which are
used in an appropriate tone combinations psyche out. We can therefore directly use these adjectives
of musical training, without an to think about the ethical importance they have for the human
mind, and the a familiar idea as fast connection to the music brings approach, even with the
purely musical properties to be confused with the hand usually.

The ideas, which represents the composer is, first and above all purely
musical.

His Imagination appears a certain beautiful melody. It should be nothing else than themselves
But every concrete phenomenon in its higher generic term to which they initially fulfilling idea
suggests, and so on, higher and higher is done to the absolute idea, so it also with the musical
ideas. Thus, for example, that soft, harmonious sustaining Adagio the idea of ​​gentle, bring harmonics
at all the beautiful appearance. The general Imagination, which is like the ideas of art in relation
to his own human emotional life, this will decay even higher, as an expression of mild resignation
of a reconciled in the Mind conceive, and may perhaps immediately opposite to the idea of ​​an eternal
peace . Go up

The poetry and visual art that is for the time being until something
concrete dar. indirectly, the Image of a flower girl to the more general
idea of ​​girlish satisfaction and simplicity, a snowy cemetery on
the idea of ​​earthly transience point.

Geradeso only with much more uncertain and arbitrary interpretation, the listener into the music
piece, the Young enough idea, be heard in that the idea of ​​impermanence, nor alone as in these pictures,
these abstract ideas, the content of the musical work: "Of a representation of the" sense of
transience, of the "sense of youthful frugality" is now completely out of the question.

There are not ideas that are underrepresented by the art of music and still occur as a feeling,
and move the other way around such a mixture of feelings the mind can that they find in any music be
represented by their idea of ​​their names.

So what the music can represent the feelings, if not their content?

Only the dynamic of it. You can the movement of a physical process for the moments: fast, slow, strong,
weak, rising, falling to replicate. Movement is only one Property, a moment of feeling, not
this itself commonly believed that performing Assets of the music enough to limit, if one states that
it can by no means the object describe a feeling, but the feeling itself, such as the object is not
a specific Love, but "love. You can do this, nor in truth. Not love, but only a Movement, they
can describe what can happen when love or some other emotion, However, the more his character
is not essential. "Love" is an abstract concept, so "Good as" virtue "and" Immortality. Insurance
of the theorists, music has no represent abstract concepts is redundant, since no art can do
that. That only ideas, FDI is the embodiment of artistic content come to life terms, of course
of itself [9], but also the ideas of love, anger, fear can not instrumental works bring to appearance,
because between those ideas and beautiful tone combinations is no necessary Relationship. What
time is it, then these ideas, then, the music in indeed knows how to seize so effective? It is
the movement (of course in the broad sense, also the swelling and weakening of the single tone
or chord as a "movement conceives). It forms the element which the art of music has in common
with the emotions, and they creatively in a thousand shades and contrasts can make.

[9] Vischer (Ästh. § 11 note) defines the specific ideas as The kingdoms of life, where their
reality as their term is designed accordingly.

  For ideas always referred to in its Reality pure and mangellos current
  term.
  
  The concept of movement is so far in the investigation of the nature
and effect of music been conspicuously neglected, and he seems to
us the most important and fruitful.

What seems to draw us also in the music of certain states of mind is symbolic.

Like the colors, namely, the tones have been innately symbolic, and in their isolation Meaning, which acts
outside and above all artistic intent. Each color is breathing strange Character: it is us not
just a number, which by the artist only a position replaced, but a force that, by nature, in
sympathetic relation to certain Set moods. Who does not know the color interpretations, as
they transition in their simplicity and there, or be lifted by finer minds to poetic subtlety?
We connect Green with a sense of hope, blue with fidelity. Rosary seen in reddish yellow "graceful
Dignity, "in purple" philistine friendliness, "etc. (psychology, 2nd edition p. 102)

Similarly, we are the basic materials of music: scales, chords and timbres characters in themselves.
We also have an all too busy Auslegekunst of the importance musical elements; Schubart symbolism
of the keys has a counterpart in nature Goethe's interpretation of the colors. However, follow these
elements (sounds, colors) in their artistic Use entirely different laws than those of their
isolated effect phenomenon. So little to a historical picture of each red us pleasure each
White means innocence, is no more in As a symphony all major us an enthusiastic, all H-minor,
a misanthropic Evoke mood, or any triad satisfaction of any diminished seventh chord despair. On
aesthetic ground to neutralize this kind of community elementary independences higher laws. From a phrase,
or displaying such natural relationship is far away. "Symbolically," we called them by the content
is not directly but one of this shape is much different. If we in the Yellow jealousy, in G
major Laughter, see the cypress funeral, then this interpretation one physiological and psychological
Relating to determinations of these feelings, but it is only so our interpretation, not the color,
the sound, the plant in and of itself. One can not, therefore, of a chord say to him, he poses
a particular feeling, much less do so in the context work of art.

Another remedy for the alleged purpose, except to the analogy of the
movement and the symbolism of the notes, did not the music.

It is thus their inability to represent certain emotions easily from the nature of the sounds
derived, it seems almost incomprehensible that there are not going to experience the way a lot faster
penetrated the general consciousness. Try someone, the feeling so many strings an instrumental
piece reminiscent to demonstrate, by clear reasons, which affect the content the same image.
The sample is essential. - We hear, for example, Beethoven's overture to "Prometheus. What hears the
attentive ear of the Art Lover in constant part of her is about following: The pearl tones
of the first bar after a fall in the lower fourth quickly and quietly up, repeated exactly in the
second, third and fourth clock run same course to a greater extent on, the pearl of the driven
drops in the fountain height decreased, to run over the next four bars the same build and the same
character image. Before spiritual sense of the listener is thus built in the melody, the symmetry
between the first and second cycles, then these two bars to the two following, and finally
the first four Measures as a large arc to equal the corresponding one of the following four Bars.
The rhythm of the bass marking marks the beginning of the first three cycles, each one stroke,
the fourth by two strokes, in the same manner for the following four measures. So here is
the fourth time against the three first, a difference which the Repeat in the next four bars
is symmetrical and the ear as a train of novelty the old equilibrium pleased. The harmony
in the topic we will return to the Correspond a large and two small sheets: the C-major triad
in the first four bars corresponds Sekundakkord of the fifth and sixth, then in the seventh and
eighth Quintsextakkord Clock. This mutual Correspond between melody, rhythm and harmony created
a balanced and varied but full screen, which by the sounds of the different Instruments and
the change of the loudness of sound is replaced by even richer lights and shadows.

[Music Sample]

Another contents indicated as the same we are not quite in the topic To identify significant
to the least a feeling that it was or would awaken in the listener. Such analysis certainly gives
a skeleton of blooming body, appropriate, all beauty, but to also destroy all false strained interpretations.

As
with the very random subject it goes with every other instrumental
theme.

A holds large class of music lovers for it merely a characteristic of the older "classic" Music,
the emotions to be averse, and admits from the outset that no one in the 48 Preludes and fugues
from JS Bach's Well-Tempered Clavier, "a feeling will prove can, the contents of the same image.
So amateurish and arbitrary, this distinction also is that in the fact that in the earlier
music of the end in itself nor distinctive, the interpretability seems harder and less appealing,
their explanation is - the Evidence would therefore have made that music does not arouse feelings
and the subject must have. The whole area of ​​figural would fall away. But have large, historically
and aesthetic grounds art forms are ignored in order to sneak a theory of life, [10] then this
is wrong. A ship must go down as soon as it only has a leak. To whom this not enough, she may
after all turn out the entire floor.
 An' I knew 'twas so because you said so. Besides, I felt
it. An' 'long about three I got up an' covered the coals an' took baby an' come down along
home. For, I says, if He was there with me in the shack, He'll go with me when I go, an' my
place is to home. An' there was a light in the kitchen, an' I looked in through the winder
an' Isr'el was there. He was kneelin' before a chair, an' his head was on his hands an' through
the winder I heard him groan. An' I stepped in an' he got up off his knees an' stood lookin'
at me kinder wild, an' he says: 'Where you been?' An' I says: 'No matter where I been. Wherever
I been He's come home with me.' An' he says, 'He? Who is it now?' An' I felt as if I could
laugh, it was so pleasant to me, an' seemed to smooth everything out. An' I says, 'Jesus Christ.
He's come home with me.' An' he looked at me kinder scairt, an' says: 'I should think you was
out o' your head.' An' I went round the room an' kinder got it in order an' brashed up the
fire an' he set an' looked at me. An' I begun to sing. I sung Coronation--it stayed in my mind
from the meetin'--I dunno when I've sung before--an' he set an' watched me. An' I got us an
early breakfast an' we eat, but he kep' watchin' me. I'd ketch him doin' it while he stirred
his tea. 'Twas as if he was afraid. I wouldn't have him feel that way. You don't s'pose he
is afraid o' me, do you?"

This she poured out in a haste unlike her usual halting utterance. But there was a steadiness
in it, a calm. He shook his head.

"No," he said. "I wish he were afraid of you." He wanted to leave her the comfort of belief
and at the same time waken her to the actual perils of her life. "Tira," he said, looking into
her eyes and trying to impress her with the force of his will, "he isn't right, you know, not
right in his head, or he never would behave to you as he does. Any man in his senses would
know you were true to him. He doesn't, and that's why he's so dangerous."

A convulsive movement passed over her face, slight as a twitching of muscles could well be.
The sweat broke out on her chin.

"No," she said, "any man wouldn't know. Because it's true. That man that come into this house
last night an' set down side o' me--an' glad enough he was there happened to be that chair
left, same as if I'd left it for him--he's bad all through, an' every man in this township
knows it, an' they know how I know it, an' how I found it out." The drops on her forehead had
wet the curling rings of her hair and she put up her hand and swept them impatiently away.
Her eyes, large in their agonized entreaty, were on Raven's, and he suffered for her as it
was when he had seen her at the moments of her flight into the woods. And now he seemed to
see, not her alone, but Nan, not a shred of human pathos that had been tossed from hand to
hot hand, but something childlike and inviolate. And that was how he let himself speak.

"But, dear child," he said, "Tenney knows how faithful you are. He knows if you hadn't loved
him you wouldn't have married him. And he knows if you love anybody, you're true through everything."

"That's it," she said loudly, in a tone that echoed strangely in the great kitchen. "That's it."

He knew what she meant. If she loved the man, she could convince him, mad as he was. But she
did not love him. She was merely clinging to him with all the strength of her work-toughened hands.

"But talk to him," he insisted. Of course, this unit is in another, higher meaning to take, after which they Also the
contrast, the episode and some freedom within itself.

In the composition of a musical piece therefore finds a renunciation of one's own personal Emotion only
to the extent than the boundaries of a predominantly objective, forming
activity .

Allow

The act, which can go in the immediate outflow of emotion in music before him, is not so much
the invention of a tone work, rather than reproduction, performance, of it. That the philosophical
notion that composed piece of music, regardless of its performance, the finished work of art must
not prevent us, the division of music in composition and reproduction,
one of the most influential art of our specialties, across to note
where it contributes to the explanation of a phenomenon.

In the investigation of the subjective impression of the music she makes is very preferably
submitted. The player is indulged in, by the feeling that dominates it just, just to free his
instrument and in his presentation of the wild storms, the ardent glow, the serene strength
and joy to breathe inside. Even the physically Radicals, by the my finger tips, the inner vibrato
abruptly pushes the string or the bow breaks or even the song itself is sounding, makes the
most personal outpouring of sentiment in music-making actually quite possible. A subjectivity
is here directly in tones sounding effect shaping not only mute them. The composer creates slow,
interrupted, the player irresistible in flight, the composer for the stay, the players met
for the moment. The tone work is formed, the performance we are experiencing. So then is the gefühlsentäußernde
and exciting force in the music Reproduktionsakt which the electric spark from murky Mystery
attracts and makes the heart skip the audience. Of course, the player can only the install, which
contains the composition, but this will force a little more than the accuracy of the notes.
"The spirit of the composer, it is indeed only, which the player can guess and obvious" - Probably,
but just this appropriation at the moment of re-creation is his, the player's mind. The same
piece harassed or delighted, according as it refreshes to sounding real. It is, as the same
man, even in its glorious enthusiasm, the other in sullen everyday conceived. The artificial
music box can not feel the listener To move but it is the easiest
musician when he is full of soul with his songs.

The highest immediacy, the disclosure of a free state of mind through music, where creation and performance
into an act coincide. This is done in the free imagination. Where this does not formally artistic,
but with predominantly subjective tendency (abnormal a greater sense) occurs because the expression,
which the player the buttons elicits a be true speech. Violation of free speech censorship,
it unleashed give yourself in the middle in a harsh spell on himself has ever experienced, which
is readily know how because Love, jealousy, joy and sorrow openly and noise but also from their
unfahndbar night her celebrate, singing their say, make their battles
until the master is calling them back, calm, disturbing.

Liberated by the movement of the play divides the expression of the listener Played with. Let
us turn to this.

We often see it taken from a music, happy or sad moved far beyond the merely aesthetic pleasure
also in the innermost carried up or shaken. The existence of this Impact is undeniable, and
truly genuine, often reaching the highest levels, to finally announced,
but that we needed to devote to it a descriptive linger.

This is only twofold: - where the difference from other movements of the specific nature of feeling
This feeling of excitement through the music lies, and how much of this effect is aesthetically.

We also have the ability to act on the feelings, recognize all the arts, without exception, yet
is the way how the music carries it, something specific, just its peculiar not be denied. Music
affects the mood quickly and more intensively than any Another beauty of art. With a few chords
we can be handed a mood that a poem only through prolonged exposure, an image achieved through
sustained Into Thinking would, although these two, the advantage to the art of music, the whole
circle of ideas serve, is what we think of the feelings of pleasure and pain depending know.
Not only faster, also the immediate and intense is the effect of
the sounds.

The other arts To persuade the music comes over us. This their peculiar violence experienced
on our mind we are strongest when we are in a state of greater excitement or down mood.

In emotional states, where neither painting nor poetry, neither statues nor buildings more capable
are we to irritate some and attention, music is still power on us, precisely violently than
usual who hear painful excited mood music, or make must, she swings like vinegar in the wound.
No art is so deep and sharp as in our Soul cut. Form and character of what is heard then lose all
their importance, be it nächtigtrübes adagio or a light sparkling
waltz, we loswinden us can not by his Sounds - not the piece of music,
we feel, but the sounds themselves, the music as a formless demonic
violence, as it moves to the glowing nerve of our whole body.

As Goethe in old age again experienced the violence of love, it woke him in the same time an
unprecedented receptivity to music. He writes about those wonderful Marie Bader Days (1823) to
Zelter: "The immense power of music to me these days! The voice Milder, the rich sound of
Szymanowska, and even the public Exhibition of the local Hunter Corps unfold me how to make
a fist friendly flat leaves. I am quite convinced that I had in the first measure your Singakademie
leave. " To judiciously so as not to recognize the large share of nervous excitement in this
phenomenon, Goethe concludes with the words: "You'd heal me from a morbid irritability, because
it is actually considered to be the cause of that phenomenon. "[30] These observations must
already make out that often in the musical effects on the feeling a strange, not purely aesthetic
element to the game was. A purely esthetic effect addresses the full health of the nervous and
is not diseased to more or Less of it.

  

[30] Correspondence between Goethe and Zelter. 3. Band, p. 332

The more intensive exposure to the music on our nervous system vindicates her is indeed a Power
excess over the other arts. But if we examine the nature of this power surplus we see that he was
a qualitative, and that the peculiar quality of physiological Calm conditions. The sensuous
factor that contributes to the enjoyment of beauty of every intellectual, is on the art of music
than in the other arts. The music, by their body loose material the most spiritual, on the part of
their non-objective form of the game the most sensual art shows this
mysterious union of two opposites with a keen desire assimilation
the nerve, this is no less enigmatic organs of the invisible telegraph
service between Body and soul.

The intense impact of music on the nervous life is a fact of psychology as From Physiology fully
recognized. Unfortunately, there is no adequate explanation of them. It can never be the psychology
of the Magnetic-Compulsive fathom the impression that certain chords, timbres and melodies
on the whole body of people exercise because first place it here on a specific stimulation of
the nerve counts.

Nor has the Triumph advancing science of physiology something crucial to our problem brought.

As
for the musical monographs of this hybrid object, they almost pull it continuously before,
the art of music by spreading brilliant showpieces in an impressive to bring prestige of miracles,
as in the context of scientific research the music lives on his nerves with our true and necessary
result. This alone but we do not, and neither the loyalty of a PhD Albrecht conviction, which his
patients Music as sweaty means prescribed, nor unbelief Oersted, of the howling a dog in certain
keys explained by rational means of beatings, which the same been trained to be Howling [31].

[31]
"The spirit of nature." III, 9

  

To many music fans, it should be known that we have a whole literature on the physical Effects of
music and its application to possess medicinal purposes. An interesting curiosities rich, but
unreliable in the observation, unscientific in the declaration to seek Most of these musico-GP
is a very composed and incidental quality of music aufzustelzen to self-efficacy.

From Pythagoras, is said to have first miracle cures performed through music, to the present day
temporarily dipped again and again, more by example than by new ideas, enriched teaching in
that one can to the exciting or soothing effect of the notes on the physical Organism as a cure
for many diseases in bringing application. Peter Lichtenthal tells us at length in his "Musical
Doctor" as the power of sound and gout, Hüftweh, ​​epilepsy, catalepsy, plague, delirium, convulsions,
nervous fever, and even been "stupid" (stupiditas) was healed. [32]

  [32] The highest confusion reached this doctrine in the famous Doctor
  Baptista Porta, of which the terms of medicinal and Musical instrument
  combined and dropsy with a flute healed, which was made of the
  stems of hellebores. One of the populus manufactured musical instrument
  should hip pain, a heal from Zimtrohr carved fainting. (Encyclopédie,
  article "Musique".)
  

With regard to the justification of this theory, these writers can be divided into two classes
. Share

Some argue from the body and found the healing power of
music to the physical Action of sound waves, which message is through
the auditory nerve and other nervous general impression conveyed by
such a salutary shock response of the disturbed body.

The emotions, which also made itself felt, were only a result of this nervous shock, evoke passions
not only by certain physical changes, but these in their turn are able to produce their corresponding
passions.

According to this theory, which (under the precedence of the Englishman Webb) Nikolai, Schneider,
Lichtenthal JJ Engel, Sulzer including attachments, we would not
be the art of music moves differently than about our windows and doors
that are beginning to tremble with a strong music.

As supportive gives examples of how the servant Boyles, the teeth began to bleed as soon as he heard sharpen
a saw, or many people, which when scratched on a knife point Glass get convulsions.

This is just not music. That music with those so hard on the nerves acting appearances the same
substrate, the sound tells us is important to be enough for future consequences, here is -
a materialistic view opposite - emphasize only that the art of music
only then begin, where to stop those isolated sound effects, indeed,
the melancholy, in which can move the listener an adagio, with the
physical sensation of a shrill cacophony is not to be compared.

The other half of our authors (among them Kausch and most aestheticians) explains the healing effects
of music on the psychological side. Music - argue it - generates emotions and passions in the mind,
emotions have sharp movements in the Nervous system results in violent movements in the nervous
system causing a healing response in the diseased organism.

This reasoning, on the jumps do not even alluded to will need to be in the mentioned ideal "psychological"
school against the earlier material championed so firm that, under the authority of the Englishman
Whytt, even all the physiology Despite denying the connection to the auditory nerve with other
nerves, according to a physical Transmission of the stimulus received by the ear on the whole
organism is of course impossible.

The idea of ​​music by certain emotions as love, sadness, anger, delight in the soul to attract, heal
the body through which charitable excitement does not sound so bad. Us is always a delicious parere,
which one of our most famous scientist gave the so-called "Goldberger's
electromagnetic chains."

He said it was not identified, whether by virtue of an electric current to cure certain diseases
- but that was agreed that the "Goldberger's chains" to produce any electrical current capable
are. Applied to our Tondoktoren, it means: It is possible that certain emotions emotions a happy
crisis in physical illnesses cause, - but it is not possible bring forth through music any time
any mind affects.

In it are two theories, the psychological and physiological, agreed that it made unsafe conditions
much more serious consequences of the releases and finally the most dubious practical conclusion
drawn from it.

Logical exhibitions may be a cure have fallen about, but found that as yet no doctor ever led
his typhoid fever patients to send in Meyerbeer's "Prophet", or pull out instead of the lancet a
French horn, uncomfortable.

The physical effect of music is neither so strong nor so sure yet of mental and aesthetic requirements
regardless so, yet at last treated as arbitrary, that it may come
as a real therapeutic agents.

Each carries with the aid of music filled the character of a cure
led exceptional case, the Never succeed in the music was due solely,
but also of special, perhaps depended on very specific physical and
mental conditions.

It is very remarkable, that the only use of music, which actually occurs in medicine, namely
in the Treatment of lunatics, preferably reflected on the spiritual side of the musical effect.
Modern psychiatry is well known used music in many cases and with happy results. This is based neither
on the physical shock to the nervous system, nor on the Excitement of the passions, but on the
exhilarating soothing influence which the exercise half dissipative, semi-addictive game of tons to a
darkened or overwrought mind able. Listen to the mentally ill and the sensuous, not the artistic
of the piece, he might be if he listened with attention, even on one, albeit minor Level of
aesthetic view.

As for all this musical-medical works for the right knowledge of music ? Help The confirmation
of a strong physical excitement has always been observed in all "Through music caused" emotions
"and" passions.

Once it is established that an integral Part of the music produced by emotion is physical,
it follows further that this phenomenon occurring as much in our nervous life, even from this
side of his physical must be explored. It can, therefore, the musicians on this issue is no scientific
Conviction form without making the results known in which the current Position of physiology in
investigating the relationship of the music keeps with the feelings.

Let us follow the course, which must take a melody to affect our state of mind, we find their way
from the vibrating tool to the auditory nerve, especially after the
epoch-making Enrichment of this area by Helmholtz's "theory of the
sensations of tone" sufficiently elucidated.

The acoustics has exactly the external conditions under, under which we have a sound any, under
which we hear this or that particular sound, the anatomy does us with the help of the microscope, the construction
of the ear to the core and finest on; physiology can finally adopts this very small and delicate,
deeply hidden Wunderbau do not direct tests, but does its effect in part with security determined
in part by one of Helmholtz hypothesis so clearly defined that we Now the whole process of
tone sensation is physiologically evident. Even beyond in the field, which already affected
the nature of science closely with the aesthetics, have us the research of Helmholtz on the consonance
and the relationship of sounds much light given, where until recently there was a lot of darkness.
But that of course we are also at the end of our knowledge. This is important for us and remains
unexplained: the nerve process, what is now the sensation of sound to sense, to the frame of mind.
The physiology know that is what we perceive as sound, a molecular motion in the nerve substance
and indeed at least as well as in the auditory in the central organs. She knows that the fibers
of the auditory nerve with other nerves are connected and transmit its charms on them that
hearing in particular with the large and small brain, larynx, lungs, heart is connected. It
is not known but the specific way in which music in this nerve acts, more diversity, with which
certain musical factors, chords, Rhythms, instruments work in different nerves. spread a musical
auditory sensation all with the auditory nerve, or related only to some? With what intensity?
From which musical elements, the brain, by which the heart or the nerve leading to the lungs
most affected? Undeniable is that dance music in young people whose natural temperament is
not retained by the whole civilization, a twitch in the body, especially in the feet, causes.
It would be one-sided, the physiological effect denying of march and dance music, and him only
to psychological association of ideas to want to reduce. What is psychological fact - the awakened memories
of the already known pleasures of the dance - is not without explanation, but this is sufficient
in itself no way out. Not because it is dance music, she lifts her feet, but it is dance music,
because it lifts the feet. Who in the opera a little look around, will soon discover how to lively,
intelligible melodies the ladies with his head involuntarily toward herschaukeln and, but this
one will never see in an Adagio, no matter how poignant or melodic. Can to conclude that certain
musical, including rhythmic relationships to motor Nerves act, others only sensory nerves?
When is the former when the latter is the Case? [33] suffers the solar plexus, which is traditional
for a preferred seat of the Feeling is in the music a special affection? They suffer as the
"sympathetic Nervous "- to which, as noted Purkinje me once that her name the best thing is
-?
 There isn't a human trait or a morbid outcrop but we've got
it. See! Charlotte's at the window. S'pose she'll want me?"

"She'll love it," said Raven. He lifted up his voice and called and Charlotte left the window
to appear at the door. "I've got her, Charlotte," said Raven. "She's going to make us a visit.
Give us almond pudding for dinner, can't you?"

It was too late for that, Charlotte told him indulgently, but she guessed there'd be suthin'.
She lingered in the hall while Nan took off her coat, and volunteered information about the
fire being lighted in the west chamber.

"I 'most thought you'd come," she said, in a way softly confidential. "You can settle right
down now, you two, an' visit."

She put a hand for an instant on Nan's shoulder and Nan felt the glow of her beneficence. Did
Charlotte know what it was to her to have even one evening alone with Rookie? Charlotte knew
most things. Probably she knew that.

Nan and Raven had their noon dinner and went for a walk, up the road. That led them past Tenney's
and when they reached the house Raven said:

"You wait a jiff and I'll ask how he is."

Tira came, in answer to his knock. She was gravely calm, not even disturbed in her secret mind,
Raven concluded, not keyed up by inner apprehension, and keeping herself firm. Where, he wondered
absently, at the same instant, did she get those clothes, blue, always worn to the exact point
of soft loveliness, the very moral of her eyes? She glanced down the path at Nan, and Nan waved
to her. Tira gave a serious little bow and turned her glance to Raven, who inquired:

"How's his foot?"

"It pains him a good deal," she said, with that softness he had noted in her voice while they
dressed the hurt. "He has to set with it in a chair. It worries him to death not to git round."

"Good Lord!" said Raven. "You must think I'm a nice chap. Who's doing the barn work?"

"Oh," said Tira, "that's all right. I can see to that. I always do when he's gone for day's works."

"You can't water the stock."

"Oh, yes, I can." Now she smiled at him, beautifully, bewilderingly, for his kindness in asking.
"I done it before dinner. That's nothin'. Besides, I like it: takes me out door."

"Don't do any more," said Raven. "We'll be over, 'long about four o'clock, Jerry or I." Then,
for he had forgotten Tenney, in his awareness of her, he remembered to ask: "The doctor came,
did he?"

She nodded gravely.

"Say anything?"

She shook her head, and then offered, it seemed unwillingly:

"He thought he might be laid up quite a spell."

To Raven, that seemed so desirable, that he wondered at the commiseration in her voice; evidently
she could be sorry for Tenney without an admixture of relief at having him safely fettered
for a while.

"Well," he said, "I'll be over. And if there's anything----" he stopped and looked her in the
eyes, gravely authoritative. It was the first time their two inner selves had met in such unrestrained
interchange. If there was anything he could do for her, the glance said, she was to know he
would do it, to the very limit of allegiance. Who unraveled nature and character of artistry! Who understands the
deep instinct fusion of discipline and self-indulgence, which it is based! For healing Disillusionment
can not want to be, self-indulgence. Aschenbach was not for self-criticism more opened, and the
taste, the mental state of his years, self-respect, maturity and late simplicity does not make
him inclined to analyze motives and determine whether from conscience if I do not run out of
depravity and weakness of his plan. He was confused, he was afraid that someone, even if the
beach guards only, its course, his defeat would have observed, very afraid of the ridicule. Moreover
joked he to himself about his comic-holy fear. "Distraught, he thought, 'upset like a Hahn, who
can hang anxiously his wing in combat. This is truly the God of the Sight of the amiable will
break our courage and our proud spirit so completely to the ground press ... "He played enthusiastically
and was too arrogant to feel fear.

Already he is no longer monitored the progress of the leisure time, which he granted to himself,
thought to return not even touched him. He had been prescribed lots of money. His concern was only
one of the possible departure of the Polish family, but he had carried in his hand, casual inquiry
at the hairdresser of the hotel, learned that these gentlemen very briefly before his own arrival
here had been relegated. The sun tanned his face and hands, causing the salt breeze strengthened
him to feel, and how, otherwise, any refreshment of sleep, Or natural food donated to him, once
accustomed to spend at a work was, so let he is now all that sun, sea and air leisure him
daily injecting high strength, high-hearted uneconomic rise in noise and sensation.

His sleep was fleeting, and the deliciously monotonous days were fully separated by short nights
Fortunately unrest. Although he retired early, because at nine clock when Tadzio from the scene
gone was the day he seemed finished. But around the first dawn he was awakened by a delicate
pervasive terror, his heart remembered his adventure, he did not suffer put more into the
pillow, he got up and wrapped lightly against the shower of the morning he is the open window
to await the rising of the sun. The wonderful event filled his sleep by the consecrated soul with
devotion. Nor heaven, earth and sea were in ghostly glassy Dämmerblässe; still swam a fading
star in the nature lots. But there was a labor, a vibrant residential customer of inaccessible
places that Eos rising from the side of her husband, and that first, sweet blush of the most distant
sky and sea lines was done by which the sensuality of creation shows itself. The goddess approached,
the youth leader Sent, the Cleitus, the Cephalus robbed and the envy of all Olympic defying
the love of the Orion enjoyed beautiful. Rose started as a sprinkle on the edge of the world,
an unspeakably lovely notes and blooming, childlike clouds, transfigured by light hovered, like
serving cupids in pink, blue perfume, purple fell to the sea, the flood flowing forward to
him seemed golden spears quivered up from the bottom to the height of heaven, the glory was
to fire, silently, with divine authority over the rolled up embers and blazing heat and flames,
and grabbing his brother's holy hooves Renner rose up over the earth. In beam from the splendor
of God sat the lonely-guard, he closed his eyes and let the glory kiss his eyelids. Former feelings,
early, delicious tribulations of the heart, in the strict Service of his life were dead and
now changed so strangely returned, - he recognized them with a confused, bewildered smile. He
thought he was dreaming, his lips slowly formed a name, and still smiling, with up reverse face,
hands folded in lap, he fell asleep in his chair again.

But the day that began so fiery and festive, was lifted in all weird
and turns mythic.

Where did and came to the breath, which at once so gentle and significantly, higher suggestion same,
the temple and ear hovered around? White spring clouds were spread in flocks in the sky, equal
grazing herds of the gods. Stronger wind rose, and the horse ran Poseidon, the rearing, therefore,
bulls also probably the bluish curly properly, which run up to roar the horns lowered. Between
the rock of the boulders from the beach, however, jumped the Waves as upward jumping goats. A holy
distorted world of Hispanic life ended the enchanted, and his heart was dreaming tender fables.
Several times, when the sun behind Venice fell, he sat on a bench in the park to watch Tadzio,
who, dressed in white and colored girt, hilarious on the rolled gravel area with a ball game,
and hyacinth was he see thought and had to die because two gods loved him. Yes, he felt Zephyrs
aching envy of his rival, who forgot the oracle, of the arch and the Kithara, to always play
with the beauty he saw the clay, driven by cruel jealousy, the lovely main meeting, he received,
he, too pale, the bent body, and the flower, the sweet blood sprung, carried the inscription
of his infinite action ...

Strangely, nothing is more delicate than the ratio of people who know
each other only by sight - the daily, even hourly to meet one another,
while observing the appearance of indifferent strangeness without
a word and without a word to keep up with their own moral coercion
or barbecues are coerced.

Between them is over-excited curiosity and restlessness, hysteria one unsatisfied, unnatural suppressed
knowledge and exchange of need and in particular a kind of rapt Respect. For man loves and honors
the people, as long as he is unable to assess and the desire is a product of faulty knowledge.

Any
relationship and acquaintance had to necessarily form between Aschenbach and the young Tadzio, and
with piercing joy was the elder find that participation and attention were not completely unrequited.
What motivated as the beautiful, never more when he appeared on the beach in the morning to use the
boardwalk at the rear of the huts, past but only on the forward path
through the sand, in Aschenbach's living space and sometimes unnecessarily
close to him by his table, his chair almost grazing, to the hut of
his stroll?

Looked as the attraction, the fascination of a superior feeling to his delicate subject matter
and thoughtless? Aschenbach, Tadzio expected daily occurrence, and sometimes he did when he was busy
when it took place, and let the beauty seemingly pass unnoticed. But sometimes he looked up, and
their eyes met. You were both deeply serious when it happened. In the educated and dignified air of
the Elder nothing betrayed an inner movement, but in Tadzio's eyes was a researcher, a thoughtful
Questions in his walk was a hesitation, he looked down, he looked lovingly on again and when
it was over, seemed to express a something in his stance that only education prevent him to
turn around.

Once, however, one evening, it happened differently. The Polish brothers were together her governess
at the main meal in the great hall from it, - with concern had Aschenbach it is perceived. He
launched after dinner, very uneasy about her whereabouts, in evening dress and straw hat in front
of the hotel at the foot of the terrace, when he suddenly the nun-like sisters emerge with
the teacher and four steps behind them Tadzio in the light of arc lamps saw. Apparently they came
from the steamboat bridge after it for some reason in the city fed.

On the water it had probably been cool; Tadzio was wearing a dark blue sailor's jacket on
with gold buttons and a corresponding cap on his head. Sun and sea air burnt him, not his skin color
remained yellow marble way as in the beginning, but he seemed paler than usual today, whether
as a result of cool or the bleaching of the moon Lamps. His well-proportioned brows stood out sharply,
his eyes darkened deep. He was more beautiful than it can be said, and Aschenbach felt as was
often in pain, that the word to the sensual beauty only praise can not play.

He was not the expensive appearance was expecting, she came unexpectedly, he had no time had
to fix his face to calm and dignity. Joy, surprise, admiration might the paint is open, as
his gaze met that of the missing - and in this second it happened that Tadzio smiled smiling
at him, saying, familiar, charming and openly, with lips that were opened in the smile slowly.
It was the smile of Narcissus, who reflecting on the water tends to that enchanted deep, drawn-smile
with which he after the reflection of her own beauty stretched out
his arms, - a very little distorted smile distorted by the hopelessness
of his aspiration, the sweet lips of his shadow to kissing, coquettish,
curious and quietly tormented, beguiled and beguiling.

The one who received this smile hurried away, with it as a fatal gift. He was so shaken that
he was forced to flee the light of the terrace, the front garden, and was investigated with hasty
steps, the darkness of the rear park. Strangely indignant and gentle admonitions escaped him:
"You we may not smile! Listen, we must So no one smile! "He threw himself on a bench, he breathed
out in the night fragrance the plants. And leaning back, with its arms, and repeatedly overwhelmed
by showers that week, he whispered the standing formula of desire, - here impossible, absurd,
discarded ridiculous, and yet holy, venerable even here, "I love
you!"

Chapter Five

In the fourth week of his stay on the Lido was Gustav von Aschenbach, the number of Outside world
concerned uncanny perceptions. First, it seemed to him that with increasing Season the frequency
of his inn decreased rather than increasing again, and, in particular, as if the German language
about him dry up and fall silent, so that at the table and on the
beach at last only strange sounds met his ear.

Then one day he started at the hairdresser, whom he now frequently
visited in the talks on a word that made him suspicious.

The man had a German Mentioned family that had just departed after a short stay and sat chatting
and caressing added. "remain, sir, you have no fear of evil" Aschenbach looked at him. "To the
evil," he repeated. The talkers did silent, busy, not to hear the question, and as she was
made more urgent, he said he knew nothing and was looking with an embarrassed Oratory to deflect.

That
was around noon. Afternoon went Aschenbach in still air and severe sunburn after Venice, for
he was driven by the mania to follow the Polish brothers, which he with her Companion way to the boat
bridge had seen strike. He could not find the idol at San Marco. But at tea on his iron Rundtischchen
on the shady side of the square sitting, he suddenly smelled a strange aroma in the air, from
which seemed to him now, as it had been for days, without penetrating into his consciousness,
his sense touches - a sweet-called official odor, reminiscent of misery and suspicious wounds and
cleanliness.

It considered and recognized him thoughtfully, finished his snack and left the place on the
the temple opposite side. Intensified in the confines of the smell. At the street corners
adhered printed characters, by which the population because of certain diseases of the gastric
system, which are in this weather on the agenda in front of the pleasures Oysters and clams,
was also warned city officials of the water of the channels. The euphemistic Nature of the decree
was clear. Ethnic groups stood together in silence on bridges and squares; and the stranger stood
spürend and brooding among them.

One shopkeeper, who between corals and false cords amethyst jewels in the Door of his vault refused,
he asked for information about the fatal odor. The man measured him with heavy eyes and roused
himself hastily. "A preventive measure, sir," replied he gestures. "A decision of the police,
must approve it. This weather suppressed The Scirocco is not conducive to health. In short, you understand
- a perhaps excessive Warning ... "Aschenbach thanked him and walked on. Also on the steamer, which
it to the Lido carried back, he now felt the smell of the germ-fighting
agent.

Back in the hotel, he went immediately into the hall table and held the newspaper in the leaves
look around. He found nothing in the foreign language. The native recorded Rumors led to fluctuating
numbers, gave official denials and questioned again their veracity. Thus, said the withdrawal of German
and Austrian element. The nationals of other nations apparently knew nothing, had no idea
were still not worried.

"You should remain silent," thought Aschenbach excited by the newspapers on the table threw
back. It is "the silent," but also filled his heart with satisfaction about the adventure,
which wanted to get in the outside world. For the passion, as the crime, the secure order and
welfare of everyday life not in accordance with, and any relaxation of civil structure, any confusion
and visitation of the world you must be welcome, because they can find their advantage in this
uncertain hope. They felt a dark Aschenbach Satisfaction with the authoritarian cloaked processes
in the dirty alleys of Venice - this terrible secret of the city, which merged with his own
most secret and at the Preservation was with him so situated very much. For the lovers concerned
nothing more than that Tadzio could leave and did not recognize without horror, that he would not
know to live, if this were.

Recently, he did not content himself with the proximity and sight of the beautiful day rule and the to
thank fortune, and he pursued him, he turned to him. Sundays, for example, appeared Poland
never on shore, and he guessed that they attended Mass in San Marco, he hastened thither,
and, entering from the glow of the place in the golden twilight of the sanctuary, he found
the Lacked, bent over a prayer-desk at church.

Then he stood in the background, on fractured mosaic floor, surrounded by kneeling, murmuring,
cross beating people, and the squat splendor of the Eastern Temple lush weighed on his senses.
Walked forward, fiddling and singing of the difficult decorated priests, incense flowed on, he befogged
the powerless Flame of the altar candles and the sweet musty smell victims seemed quietly to
another mix: the smell of the affected city. But through mist and glitter saw Aschenbach,
as the Fair up ahead turned his head, looked for him and saw him.

Then, when the amount flowing out through the open portals to the bright, pigeons crowded place, hid
the Deluded in the lobby, he was hiding, he lay down in wait. He saw the Poles leave the church,
saw the brothers on ceremonious Art from the mother adopted and how they are returning home
to the Piazzetta turned, and he noted that the Fair, the monastic
sisters and the governess the way to Right through the gate of the
clock tower and the Merceria on traveling, and after agreeing Projection
had had to win, he followed them, followed them on their walk stealthily
Venice.

He had to stop when they stayed in, had to flee in kitchens and courtyards to the ends to be reversing
over, he lost, looked hot and tired after them Bridges and dead ends in dirty and deadly pain
endured minutes when he suddenly in close passage where no escape was possible, looked halfway.
Still, one can not say that he suffered. Head and heart were intoxicated him, and his steps followed
the Instructions of the demon, it is the desire of people to connect reason and dignity under his
feet.

Somewhere took Tadzio and his family then probably a gondola, and Aschenbach, the while boarded,
a porch, a fountain had been hidden was doing, shortly after being issued by banks rejected, the
same. He spoke rapidly and muffled when he rowers, with the promise a good tip instructed,
that gondola, the flexural there just around the corner, quietly to follow at some distance,
and it ran through him when the man with the mischievous Lawyer offers
an opportunity maker, in the same tone he assured me that he uses
that he should be operated carefully.

Sun slipped and staggered as he, leaning in soft, black cushion, the other black, geschnabelten barge
to, at the track, the passion fascinated him. Sometimes they vanished him then he felt grief and
anxiety. But its leader, as he was trained in these jobs well, always knew him by clever maneuvers,
rapid traverses and abbreviations by the coveted again bring to eyes. The air was still and fragrant,
the sun burned through difficult the haze that colored the sky slaty.

Gurgling water struck against wood and stone. The call of the gondolier, half warning, half
greeting, was afar from the silence of the labyrinth answered after a strange arrangement. Of
small, high-lying gardens hung umbels, white and purple, the scent of almonds, about rotten walls.
Arab Window frames formed from the troubled waters. The marble steps of a church rose into the
flood, a beggar, squatting on his misery protesting, holding out his hat and showed the whites
of the eyes, as he is blind, an antiquities dealer, before his dive, the passers-loaded with
sycophantic To stay a sign, hoping to deceive him. This was Venice, the flattering and suspect
beauty - this city, half fairy, half-stranger cases in which foul air the art aufwucherte once voluptuous
and what the musical input sounds that weigh lull and amorous. The adventure ends, it was as
drinking his eye like opulence, when his ear was courted by such melodies, and he also remembered
that the city ill and it was for gain conceal, and he looked forward to the floating of unbridled
Gondola.

One knew, and was confused because of nothing more than the item that sparked it, without ceasing
to follow, to dream of him when he was absent, and, after the manner of Lovers, to give his
mere shadow tender words.


"Symbols," said Raven, profoundly moved by the vision of the bright spirit in her mortal beauty
flickering out. "Old Crow."

"And when I said," she hesitated, anxious to give him everything he asked of her, "the things
I didn't like, I meant the things they tell us, Rookie. You know: facts, details. And then
you think of God and--no use, Rookie, no use!"

"Yes," said Raven, "that's where Old Crow was up against it. But picture writing, because it's
the only kind of writing we can read--picture writing, Nan, because we're savages--he could
take that and not wince."

"Anyway," said Nan, "I'm happiest not thinking of it. I say my prayers: God bless Rookie. God
bless me. That's all."

"I don't believe it."

"Don't believe what? That I say 'God bless Rookie'? Course I do. Why not?"

"Well, I'm blessed!" said Raven, at a loss. Then, recovering himself, "Nan, I never've known
you in the least. How am I getting at you now?"

"Because we're shut up here with the quiet and the snow," said Nan.

She looked at the fire, not at him. He thought, with a startled delight in her, he had never
seen a more contented figure and, the beauty of it was, entirely oblivious of him. It made
no demands.

"It's a fact," he reflected, "I've really never seen you since you grew up. First you were
a child, then you went over there. You had to take life whole, as Old Crow took his religion."

"Yes," said Nan, "I guess we're all queer, we young ones, that have been in service. You see
we've had to take things as they are. You can't veil them from us. We've seen 'em. We know."
She laughed out. "Rookie, it's queer, but I'm a good deal more like the old-fashioned girl
we read about than the rest of the crowd I run with."

"Why?" Raven ventured.

If Nan was in a mood to unveil her dear mind, he wanted her voice to rush on and on in that
sweet staccato. And her answer was in itself surprising:

"Aunt Anne."

Raven sat looking at her, a slow smile dawning. There she was, "prim as a dish," Charlotte
would say, her two braids down her back, her hands clasped about her knees. He had never, the
undercurrent in his mind still reminded him, been so alone with her since the days when they
had, with an unspoken sense of lawlessness, slipped away together for a day's fishing or a
breathless orchid hunt in the woods. The adventures had been less and less frequent as time
ran on and it had begun to dawn on Raven that they were entirely contrary to Aunt Anne's sense
of New England decencies. After each occasion Nan would be mysteriously absent for a half day,
at least, and when she reappeared she was a little shyer of him, more silent toward Aunt Anne.
Had she been put to bed, or shut up with tasks, to pay the tax on her stolen pleasures? He
never knew. He did know, however, that when he proposed taking her off to wild delights that
made her eyes glow with anticipation she always refused, unless he acceded to her plea to slip
away: always to slip away, not to tell. Could it be she had known by a child's hard road to
knowledge--of observation, silence, unaided conclusion--that Aunt Anne would never allow them
to run away to play? Curious, pathetic, abnormal even, to have been jealous of a child! Then
he pulled himself up with the shocked sense, now become recurrent, that he had never allowed
himself to attack Anne's fair dignity with the weapon of unsuppressed guesswork about her inner
motives. He had assumed, he had felt obliged to assume, they were as fine as her white hands.
All the more reason for not assailing them now when she was withdrawn into her strange distance.
Yet one source of wonder might be allowed him to explore unhindered: the presence of Nan here
at his hearth, inviting him to know her to the last corner of her honest mind. She was even
eager in this loving hospitality. He would hardly have seen how to define the closeness of
their relation. She had turned her eyes from the fire to meet his.

"Well?" she said. "What?"

"I was thinking how queer it is," said Raven, "we never've been alone together very much--'all
told' as Charlotte would say--and here we sit as if we were going to be here forever and talk
out all the things."

"What things?" asked Nan.

She was not looking at him now, but back into the fire and she had a defensive air, as if she
expected to find herself on her guard.

"Lots of 'em," said Raven. "The money." His voice sounded to her as if he cursed it, and again
he pulled himself up. "What are we going to do with it?"

"Aunt Anne's," she said, not as a question but a confirmation.

"Yes. I can't refuse it. That means throwing it back on you. If I won't decide, I'm simply
making you do it for me. He
dined and spent the balmy evening, reading journals, in a rocking chair rear terrace. Before
he went to bed, he made his luggage completely ready for their departure.

He did not sleep the best, because of the impending re-awakening him uneasy. When on Morning, the
window opened, the sky was still obtained, but the air seemed fresher, and - it began even
his repentance. Was this termination is not in a hurry and mistakenly the act of a sick and humble state
been? If he had a little retained he would have it without despair so quickly Venetian in the
attempt to adapt the arriving air or improvement in the weather can be, he was now, rather than
haste and load, a morning on the beach like yesterday before. Too late. Now he had to continue to
want to what he had wanted yesterday. He dressed and went to breakfast at eight clock to the ground
floor down.

The breakfast room was when he entered, still empty of guests. Some came as he sat receipe expected.
The teacup on his mouth, he saw the Polish girls, together with her companion arrive; strictly
fresh and tomorrow, with reddened eyes, she walked to her table in corner of the window. A moment
later the clerk approached him with drawn cap and warned to leave. The car was ready, he and
other travelers to the hotel "Excelsior" to get from where the boat through the reigns of the
company to the private channel station would carry. Time was short. - Aschenbach found that it is
not in the least do. More than an hour remained until the train's departure. He was angry at
the inn custom the departing prematurely out of the house and meant the clerk that he alone wish to
have breakfast. The man drew back reluctantly to act again after five minutes. Impossible that the
car waiting longer. Then he should go and take his case, said Aschenbach irritated. He wanted
to use the appropriate time the public vaporetto and please, the concern for its advancement
to him to decide. The clerk bowed. Aschenbach, glad to have fended off the pesky reminders, finished
his snack without haste, yes, he even will last the waiter dailies. The time had become very
scarce, as he got up. It happened that at that moment Tadzio came
in through the glass door.

He cruised to the table of his family as to the way of tampering, suggested that the gray-haired,
hochgestirnten modest man's eyes down to her immediately after his sweet nature again soft
and fully turn over to him and was gone. Adieu, Tadzio! Aschenbach thought. I saw you briefly. And
as he compared his habit is thought really with the lips trained and hinsprach before him,
he added, be blessed - He was then departure, distributed! Tips, was adopted by the small quiet Manager
in the French frock coat and left the hotel on foot as he came around, followed by the carrying
hand luggage porter, go through the white flowering avenue across the island to the boat bridge.
He reached her, he takes a seat - and what followed was a suffering
journey, full of grief, through all depths contrition.

It was a familiar trip across the lagoon to San Marco by the Grand Canal up. Aschenbach Some sat
on the bench at Buge, leaning his arm onto the site, with his hand shading his eyes. The public
gardens were left behind, the Piazzetta opened up again in princely Grace, and was abandoned,
there was the great escape of the palaces, and when the waterway is used, appeared the magnificent
Rialto strained marble arch. Attending the farewell, looked and his chest was torn. The atmosphere
of the city, this quiet putrid smell of the sea and swamp, to escape the had pushed him so much
- he now breathed in deep, tender painful moments. Was it possible that he never knew, had not thought
to be how much Heart of all this go? What this morning half a regret, a slight doubt about
the correctness His action had been, was now to Harm, the real sorrow, anguish to a, so bitter
that she repeatedly drove tears to the eyes, and he said that he it did not possibly have foreseen.
What is he to be so hard to bear, so, sometimes as completely felt unbearable, apparently was
the thought that he should never see again Venice that this was a farewell forever. For, as
had been shown for the second time that the city it ill do, because he was forced to leave
her suddenly for the second time, he had indeed to look at him now as an impossible and illegal
residence, which he did not grow was to visit again and would have been pointless. Yes, he felt
that if he is now departing, And shame would prevent him despite seeing the beloved city ever
again, against which he had twice failed physically, and this dispute between mental and physical affection
Assets to the aging seemed at once so difficult and important to the physical defeat so shamefully,
so at any cost disregard noted that he did not understand the frivolous devotion, with which he
yesterday decided without serious struggle to wear them and recognize them.

Meanwhile, the steamboat approaches the station, and pain and helplessness rise to to the confusion.
The departure seems a tortured impossible not reverse the poor. So completely torn he enters
the station. It is very late, he has to lose a moment, if he wants to catch the train. He wants
it and wants it. But time is pressing, it castigates him forward, he hastens to gain his ticket
and finds himself in the tumult of the hall around for the officers stationed here, the hotel company.
Man shows logs and the large suitcase was abandoned. Already given up? Yes, well, - to Como.
To Como? And made a hurried back and forth from angry questions and answers trodden comes to
light that the case already in the luggage transport office of the Hotel Excelsior, "together
with other foreign baggage, was headed in completely the wrong direction.

Aschenbach

had bothered to preserve the look, the only conceivable under the circumstances was. An adventurous
joy, an incredible serenity shattered from the inside almost convulsively his chest. The employee rushed
off to the trunk may have to stop and returned, as expected have been returned empty-handed.
As for said Aschenbach that without his luggage did not wish to travel, but to reverse and
re-arrival expected of the piece was determined in hotel bathrooms. Whether the motor boat of
the Company on Railway station lies. The man insisted that there was at the door. He determined
in Italian Suade the clerk to withdraw the ticket resolved, he swore that are telegraphed, that
nothing should be saved and failed to recover the suitcase in the near future, and - there was
the odd thing that the traveler, twenty minutes after his arrival at the station, again in the
Grand Canal on the way back to the Lido saw.

Wunderlich unbelievable, embarrassing, weird dream-like adventure sites, of which you just
put into the deepest melancholy farewell for ever, the fate turned round and back devious even in the same
hour again! Foaming at the Buge, funny nimbly between gondolas Shock and tacking, shot the small,
hasty vehicle to its goal, while his passenger under the mask of the angry resignation anxious-spirited
excitement of a runaway Boy was hiding. Still, from time to time, his heart was moved by laughter
at this Misfortune that, as he said himself, a Sunday child would not pleasing to visit. They
were to give explanations, astonished faces exist, - then was, he told himself, all is well again,
then a disaster was prevented, made a grave error correct, and everything he had believed to
be in the back, opened to him again, was in any Time to be back ... Deceived him by the way
the fast ride or really came to the abundance of But now wind from the sea?

The waves beat against the concrete walls of the narrow channel to
the island by the Hotel "Excelsior" is set.

An automobile bus waiting there, the recurrent and led him above the ruffled sea on a straight
path to the hotel bathrooms. The little mustachioed Manager in curly frock coat came to greet
the flight of stairs down.

Quietly coaxing he regretted the incident, calling it very embarrassing for him and the Institute
approved, but with conviction Aschenbach's decision, expected that baggage here. Certainly his room
was forgiven, but not another, worse, once available. "Pas de chance, monsieur," the Swiss elevator
operator said, smiling, as they slipped up. And so the refugees again quartered in a room that
according to the previous situation and possible means nearly perfect.

Tired, dazed by the vortex of this strange morning, he was, after the contents His hand bag in the
room divided down in a chair by the open window. The sea had a pale green color adopted, the
air seemed thin and pure, the beach with their huts and boats colored, although the sky was
still gray. Aschenbach looked out hands folded in her lap, happy to be here again, shaking his head,
dissatisfied with his fickleness, his ignorance of their own desires. He sat for an hour, resting
and thoughtless daydreaming. At noon he saw Tadzio, with the in striped linen suit red stitch,
from the sea, the beach block and the boards came back along way to the hotel. Aschenbach recognized
him immediately from his height, before he actually contemplated and want to think something like, "Look,
Tadzio, since you too are back," But at the same moment! he felt that the casual greeting fell
silent before the truth of his heart sank, and - felt the enthusiasm of his blood, the joy, the
pain of his soul and realized that he Tadzio's sake to the parting had become so difficult.

He was sitting quite still, quite unseen in his high place and looked
to himself.

His Features were awakened, his eyebrows rose, attentive, curious witty smile drew his mouth.
Then he raised his head and described with both limp over the back of the chair arms hanging
down, a slowly rotating and lifting motion, palms forwards returning, as if he interpret an
opening and spreading to the arms. It was a readily welcoming border, left receiving gesture.

Chapter
Four

Now days drew naked for the day of God with the fiery glow of his
cheeks and the end of four horses through the halls of heaven, and
his yellow curls fluttered in the same time ausstürmenden east wind.

Whitish silky shine was on the slow flowing reaches of Pontus. The sand was glowing. In the silvery
shimmering blue of the ether were rust-colored canvases in front of the beach huts stretched, and
sharply defined shadows on the spot that they offered, we spent the Morning hours. But delicious
was the evening when the plants of the park balsamic smelt, the stars up there dancing their
steps and the murmur of the benighted sea quietly up urgently, the soul discussed. Such an
evening was in the joyful assurance a new solar day from easily organized and decorated with
numerous, close together lying ways lovely coincidence.

The guest who held such a pliant was bad luck here, far in the recovery his possession a reason to
watch again to leave.

He had two days of some deprivation and appear at meals in the large dining room in traveling clothes
have to put up. Then, as we finally got lost again last sat in his room, he took out thoroughly
and filled cupboard and drawers with his family, decided to temporarily stay unforeseeable,
happy, the hours of the beach in a silk suit and spend at dinner again show more fitting evening
dress at his table to be able to.

The cozy common mode of existence, it had already cast a spell, the
soft and mildness of this brilliant life ensnares him quickly.

What a stay, in fact, the the charms of a fine bathing beach with life in southern prepare confidential
close strange-wonderful city links! Aschenbach did not love the treat. When and where It was
to celebrate, look after the rest, making the required good days, it soon - and especially in
recent years, this was so was - with alarm and disgust in the back high toil, the holy fasting
service of his everyday life. Only this enchanted place him, relaxed his will, made him happy.
Sometimes in the morning, under the shade cloth of his hut, hinträumend the blue of the South
Sea, or probably even mild night, leaning on the pillow the gondola, which it from Mark's Square, where
he stays for a long time, under the big starry sky home led to the Lido - and the colorful lights,
the sounds of melting serenade remained back, - he remembered his country estate in the mountains,
the site of his summer Wrestling, where the clouds were low across the garden, terrible thunderstorm
in the evening light cleared the House and the ravens, which he fed to swinging in the tops of
spruce trees. Then it seemed to him well when he was caught up in the Elysian land, the ends
of the earth where lightest human life is brought, if not snow and winter storm and still pouring
rain, but always gently cooling breath sends up Oceanus and in blissful Leisure trickle the days
ordained effortlessly, without a fight and only the sun and all its festivities.

A lot, almost constantly saw the boy Tadzio, Aschenbach, a limited space, each one given Order
of life, it brought with it close to him that the Fair During the
day with short breaks was.

He saw, he hit him everywhere: in the lower rooms of the hotel, on the cool-water rafting to the
city and from there back in the pomp of the place itself, and often on zwischenein Roads and bridges,
if chance did the rest. Mainly, however, and with the happiest Regularity offered him the morning on
the beach extended opportunity, the lovely appearance devote to prayer and study. Yes, this
constraint of fortune, this daily-even again dawning favorable circumstances, it was so right about
him with satisfaction and joy fulfill what he made the stay expensive, and a sunny day so pleasing
to dilatory in the other series had.

He was up early, as usual probably the impulse at work pounding, and, most beach, when the sun
was still mild and the sea was dazzling white in morning dreams.

He greeted people friendly the guardian of the barrier, greeted the barefoot confidential and
white beard, his place prepared, stretched the brown shade cloth, the furniture of the hut out on the platform
had moved, and sat down. be three hours or four were then, in which the sun the level rose
and gained tremendous power, which turns blue sea, deeper and deeper and in which he was allowed
to see Tadzio.

He saw him coming, from left, on the edge of the sea, therefore, looked
at him from behind between the Huts or emerge suddenly and was also
probably not happy without a shock that He missed his coming and that
he was already there, already in the blue and white bathing suit,
the now on the beach his only clothing was his usual bustle in the
sun and sand again Date had - this lovely invalid, erratic idle life,
the game was, peace, Strolling, wading, digging, chasing, and swimming
camps guarded, called by the women to the platform that made its name
with head voice sounded: "Tadziu!

Tadziu, "and to which he came running with eager gestures to tell them what he experienced,
to show them what he found, caught: clams, sea horses, jellyfish and crabs running sideways.
Aschenbach did not understand a word of what he said, and liked it to be the most ordinary,
it was vague melody in his ear. Is collected in the boy's speech at the strangeness of music,
a spirited Sun poured lavish gloss over him, and the raised perspective of the deep sea was
accessible film his appearance and background.

Soon the observer knew every line and pose this so high, so free is performing Body, welcomed with
joy each already familiar beauty again and found the admiration the delicate lust no end. They called
the boy, to greet a guest of the women came up at the cottage, he ran up, ran wet perhaps from
the flood, he threw the locks, and as he shook hands, resting on one leg, the other foot on tiptoe found
he had a lovely twist and turn of the body, graceful, exciting, bashful of kindness, coquettish
from noble duty.

He lay stretched out, the towel wrapped around the chest, the delicately carved arm resting in the
sand, his chin in the hollow Hand, the one who "Jaschu" was called, sat crouched with him and
did him good, and nothing could be more enchanting than the smile of the eyes and lips, with
the excellent looked up at the reduced, service ends. He stood at the edge of the lake, alone,
away from the His family, very close to Aschenbach, - upright, engulfed the hands of the neck,
slowly rocking on the balls, and dreaming into the blue, while small waves, which started its Toes
bathed. His honey-colored hair curled in ringlets at the temples and in the Neck, the sun lit
up the fluff of the upper spine, the fine drawing of the ribs, the symmetry of the chest protruded
through the tight wrapping of the torso, his armpits were still smooth as a statue, his knees
were shining, and her bluish veins left his body like substances appear in clearer formed.
What a discipline which precision the thought was expressed in the stretched and teen perfect
body! The strict and pure will, however, the dark action to force these divine statue revealed
had succeeded, - it was not him, the artist, well known and familiar? He had not even in him when
he headed passion full, from the marble mass of language the slender Exempt form that he had
seen in the spirit and as a stand and mirror image of spiritual beauty the people represented?

Still
Picture and mirror! His eyes embraced the noble figure there on the edge of the Blue, and aufschwärmendem
in delight he felt with this view of beauty to understand themselves, Form as God's thoughts,
and a pure perfection, who lives in the spirit and the a human image and likeness was erected here
and easy to hold worship. The the noise was, and safe, so greedily, said it welcomed the aging
artist. His Spirit circled, his education began to Wallen's memory threw old, his youth traditional
and until then never by their own fire on a busy mind. Was not written that the sun our attention
from the intellectual to the sensible things apply? They stun and charm, it was said, intellect
and memory, such that the soul before Pleasure of their actual condition and forget all with wonder
and admiration the most of the hanging objects remain sunny: yes,
by virtue only with the help of a body they then raise to a higher
contemplation itself.

Amor indeed it did the mathematicians same show, the disabled children tangible images of
pure forms: This is also served of God in order to make our spiritual visible, like the shape
and color of human Youth, which he adorned the tool of memory, with particular reflection
of the beauty and the sight of which we then probably broke out in pain and hope.


Dick looked at him accusingly, sure of his own rightness and the clarity of the issue.

"You know," he said. "This business. Compromising Nan."

Raven felt that slight quickening of the blood, the nervous thrill along the spine a dog must
feel when his hair rises in canine emergency. He smoked silently while he was getting himself
in hand, and, in the space of it, he had time for a good deal of rapid thinking. The outrage
and folly of it struck him first and then the irony. Here was Dick, who flaunted his right
to leave nothing unsaid where realistic verse demanded it, and he was consigning Nan to the
decorum Aunt Anne herself demanded. Was the young animal of the present day really unchanged
from the first man who protected his own by a fettering seclusion, simply because it was his
own? Was Dick's general revolt only the yeasty turmoil sure to take one form or another, being
simply the swiftness of young blood? Was his general bravado only skin deep? Raven hardly knew
how to take him. He wouldn't be angry, outwardly at least. The things Dick had said, the things
he was prepared to say, he would be expected to resent, but he must deny himself. It was bad
for the boy, and more, a subtle slur on Nan. They mustn't squabble over her, as if her sweet
inviolateness could be in any way touched by either of them. Presently he took his pipe out,
looked at it curiously as if it did not altogether please him and remarked:

"Dick, you're a fool."

"Oh, yes," said Dick, with a bitterness that curled his lip a little, "I'm a young fool, too,
I suppose. Well, thank God for that. I am young, and I know it, and just what I'm getting out
of it and what I've a right to get. You can't play that game with me, Uncle Jack. You simply
can't do it. The old game's played out."

"And what," said Raven mildly, "is the old game? And what's the new one going to be? You'll
have to tell me. I don't know."

"The old game," said Dick, "was precisely what it was in politics. The old men made the rules
and the young were expected to conform. The old men made wars and the young fought 'em. The
old men lied and skulked and the young had to pull them out of the holes they got into. I suppose
you'd say the War was won at Chequers Court. There are too few people who are bored, or better words that
have the talent to get bored. It is rational to the everyday Whims. You always want a reason and always
a purpose. It is no longer walk, but to do tours. If one's life is at risk, it happens to things
that its not are worth. As for me, I saw men, serious men frightened at the mere Thoughts of deeper
attachment.
 You come home here and find me peaceably retired to Charlotte and
Jerry and my Sabine Farm, and you proceed to declare war on me. What the devil possesses you?" With the money I wanted to feed the fighters and the Wounded.
"

"Stand up with another name?" Inquired the Emperor.

A sinister mockery on his lips twitched Lezurier's.

"They're used
to," he replied, "to buy the treason. Those old bugaboos wouldn't work.

"I am going," he said, "to marry Nan."

"Good for you," responded Raven. "No man could do better."

"Do you mean to tell me," countered Dick, "you're not bluffing? Or do you actually want to
let her marry me and you--you'd continue this under my nose?"

Raven stared at him a full minute, and Dick angrily met him. "Stare away," Dick was thinking.
"I'm in the right. I can look you down."

"Dick," said Raven finally, "I called you a fool. It isn't such a bad thing to be a fool. We're
most of us fools, of one sort or another. But don't let me think you're a dirty-minded little
cad. 

In the visual arts the Vorschaffen of nature is most striking. The painter could no tree, no
flower stand, if they had not been foreshadowed in external nature; the sculptor not a statue,
without knowing the true human form and pattern to . Take The same is true of fabricated materials.
You can be "never invented in the strict sense." Is not the "ideal" landscape of rocks, trees,
water, and passing clouds, all things are prefigured in nature? The painter can not paint what he
saw and not just has observed. No matter whether he is painting a landscape or a genre picture,
a history painting invents. If our "contemporaries a" Huss, "Luther," "Egmont paint", they have
their subject never really seen, but for every part of it they have the model exactly the Nature have
taken. The painter does not need this man, but he must have seen many men how they move, stand,
walk, be illuminated, cast shadows, and the grossest accusations certainly would be unnatural or
the impossibility of his characters.

The same is true of poetry, which is a far larger field scenic models added. The people and
their actions, feelings, stories, as they are by their own perceptions or by tradition - because this
is one of the existing situation, the poet Samaritans - Are brought are material for the poem,
the tragedy, the novel. The poet can not Sunrise, no snow field describe describe any emotional
state, no farmer Soldiers, miser, in love to bring to the stage if he is not the role models
to the Nature has seen and studied by real or traditions as lively in his imagination, that they
replace the direct observation.

Imagine now that the music arts contrary, we recognize that it is a role model, a Material for
their work finds nowhere.

There is no natural beauty of the music.

This difference between the music and other arts (architecture only found also no precedent in
nature) is deep and serious consequences.

The work of the painter, the poet is a constant tracing (inner or real), There nachzumusizieren
thing does not exist in nature - reshaping. Nature knows no sonata no overture, no Rondo. But
landscapes, genre paintings, idylls, tragedies. The Aristotelian principle of the imitation
of nature in art, which even the philosophers of the last century was common, has long since corrected
and needs, to ad nauseam corny, no further discussion here. Not the art should imitate slavishly
the Nature, they may have to make. The expression already shows that prior art had to be something
there, what is remodeled. This is precisely the model proffered by nature, beauty in nature. The
painter is found by a charming landscape, a group, a poem, the poet of a historical event,
an experience for the artificial representation of the found causes. In view of nature which could
call out but the composer ever: that is a superb model for an overture, a symphony! The composer
can transform anything, He has created all things new. What will the painter, the poet, contemplating
the beauty of nature, which must work out the composer by his inner concentration. He has the
happy hour Wait it out in it begins to sing and sound: since it will sink in and of itself out
to create something that has no equal in nature and therefore, unlike
the other arts, is almost not of this world.

There can be no way a partisan definition, if we are to the "natural beauty" for the painter and poet,
the people are included, artfully for the musician, however the concealed from the human breast
swelling vocals. The singing shepherd is not the object but already the subject of art. Consists
of his songs measurable, orderly, if ever so simple Sequences of
notes, so it is a product of the human spirit, whether it has now
invented a shepherd boy or Beethoven.

Therefore, when a composer uses real national melodies, this is not a natural beauty; for we must go
back to one that it has invented - where they had this? Found He set an example for this in
nature? This is a legitimate question. The answer can only be negative . Are The people's voice
is not a corpus, not a natural beauty, but the first stage real art, naive art. He is the
art of music nor a generated by nature Model, as the guard-rooms with coal to soil and debris lubricated
flowers and soldiers natural role models for the painting are. Both human artifact. For the
carbon figures be the role models in nature demonstrated, for the
people not singing, you can not go behind him.

To a very viable confusion is achieved if the term of "substance" for the music in an applied,
takes a higher sense and points out that Beethoven really a Overture to Egmont - or so the word
"to" not to urge dramatic purposes, - has written a musical "Egmont," Berlioz a "King Lear",
Mendelssohn a "Melusina." Do these stories, one wonders, not just the composer supplied the
substance, such as the Poet? Not at all. The poet, these figures real model, he transforms,
the composer, they offer only a suggestion, and that poetic inspiration. The natural beauty of
the composer would have to be an audible, as the painter a visible, for the sculptor one is tangible.
Not the figure of Egmont, not his deeds, experiences, attitudes are Contents of Beethoven's
overture as "the image of Egmont, in the drama" Egmont is the case is. The contents of the overture are
tone rows, which the composer quite free music Laws of thought in itself created. You are responsible
for the aesthetic view quite independently and independently of the idea's Egmont, with which
it repeats the poetic imagination the composer has been associated, whether it be that this idea inscrutable
to way has the germ of the invention that tone rows down, be it that he later this his complaint
was accordingly. This relationship is so loose and arbitrary, that never forfeited a hearer of
the song on the subject of alleged would, if not the Author of the explicit naming of our imagination
in advance the specific direction imposed. Berlioz's overture is dark in and of itself with the
idea of ​​"King Lear" no more together than a bunch of shear waltz. One can not pronounce the
words strong enough to since the erroneous views are common. Not until the moment appears the
Straussian Waltz of the idea of ​​"King Lear" contradictory, however, the Berlioz overture accordingly
where we compare this music with that idea. Alone just for this comparison There is no inherent reason,
but only an explicit coercion by the author. By certain we are heading for comparison of the
piece with a standing besides him Property forced, we must measure it with a certain scale,
which is not the musical is.

One may say then perhaps Beethoven's Overture "Prometheus" was great
enough for this allegation.

Solo nowhere you can get at it from within, nowhere it a musical Gap or defect detected. It
is perfect because it its musical content fully running, her poetic theme is analogous to run a second,
very different Claim. This arises and disappears with the title. Moreover, such a claim are entitled
to a certain tone work with only certain characteristics: that the music sounds sublime or cute, gloomy
or glad to be saddened by simple exposure Etc. At the conclusion was developing the art of poetry
or painting is the substance of the claim a specific concrete individuality, not mere property. Therefore
it would be quite conceivable that Beethoven's Overture to "Egmont also" William Tell "or" Joan of
Arc " could be overwritten. The drama Egmont, Egmont make the image more than the confusion
that this is a different individual in the same circumstances, but not that it completely
other conditions are.

We see how closely the relationship of music to the beauty of nature with the whole question
of their Content-related.

Only one objection to fetch from the musical literature to the music a natural beauty to vindicate.
Examples namely, that composers from nature, not only the poetic occasion drawn (as in the above
history), but really audible expressions of their right Tonlebens have modeled: the Hahnenruf in
Haydn's Seasons, cuckoo, nightingale, and quail in Spohr's "Consecration of Tones," and Beethoven's
Pastoral Symphony. But if we identify these Imitation listen and hear in a musical work of art,
they do have is no musical meaning, but a poetic one. It is not us then the cock crow as beautiful
music, or even presented as music, but only recalled the impression be, which is related to
that phenomenon. "I've Haydn's Creation - Viewed "Almost, Jean Paul writes after a performance
at this Tonwerk Thieriot. Commonly known Keywords, quotes are to remind us that: It is early morning,
warm summer night, Spring. Without this merely descriptive tendency Never has a composer natural voices
directly to real musical purposes can use. A theme can combine all the natural voices of the earth
not produce, precisely because they are not music, [48] and significant, it appears that , the
art of music by nature, only use if they dabbles in painting.

[48] ​​From this misunderstanding, the sound of nature just realistic
transfer in the work of art - which, like O. Jahn remarks, may be
granted only in rare cases as a joke, it's entirely different and
should not really painting called be given if certain in nature, by
its rhythmic or semi-musical sound character acting elements, such
as in the noise and splashing of the water in bird song, wind and
Weather, the whizzing of arrows, the purr of the spinning wheel, etc.
included are by the composers - are "not about imitation," but they
give impetus to motives of self-beauty which they design and make
artistic pursuits.

  "This Law uses the poet in the language of the rhythm, in the Music,
  it takes much further because of the musical elements many are scattered
  through the whole of nature, "and fine examples from our traditional,
  no less than from our modern Composers (the only non-refined process
  than that) are each present in abundance.
  
  VII
  
  The terms "content" and "form" in music.
  
  The music has a content?
  
  That is, since one is accustomed to think about our art, its most heated
  controversy. It was decided for and against. Important voices assert
  the vacuity of Music, they are almost certainly the philosophers:
  Rousseau, Kant, Hegel, Herbart, Kahlert [49] etc. Of the many physiologists
  that support those beliefs, we are the musical education by outstanding
thinkers Lotze and Helmholtz the most important.

The unequal numerous fighters contesting for the content of music!
there are the real musicians among writers, and the majority of the
general belief is to them.

[49] In Herbart's principles has in recent times, Robert Zimmermann in his' general aesthetics
"as a form of science (Vienna 1865), the formal principle of strict consistency in all Arts,
thus also in the music performed.

Fast it may seem strange that the very ones which the technical provisions the music is familiar, not
contradictory from the error of these conditions may renounce view that one could forgive the
rather abstract philosophers.

  This is Therefore, because many music writers at this point
  more to the supposed honor of their Art, as to do the truth. They
  feud, the doctrine of the emptiness of the music not as opinion
  against opinion, but like heresy to dogma.

The opposing view appears to them as unworthy of misunderstanding, as gross, wanton materialism.
"How to Art that lifts us up and excited, so devoted to the many noble spirits of their lives,
the the highest ideas can be subservient, they should be burdened with the curse of emptiness
be a mere plaything of the senses, empty tinkle? "With this kind were a lot of exclamations, as
they are usually released as coupling, although not one proposition to another, is not refuted
nor proven. This is not a point of honor, not a party characters but just to get to the knowledge
of the truth, and to this, one must above all be clear about the terms of which one denies.

The
confusion of terms: the content, subject, substance is what a lot of matter into Lack of clarity
has caused and still causes, as each other for the same concept Designation used by the same word
or combines different ideas. "Content" in the original and true sense of what a thing contains,
holds within itself. In this Important are the sounds, which consists of a piece of music,
which, as the parts of it to Whole form, the contents of it. That satisfy with this answer no
one likes, they check in as a matter of course, has its basis in the fact that we commonly the
"content" with "object" confused.

When asked about the "content" of the music you have the notion of "object" (substance, subject)
in the sense that what we as the idea of ​​the ideal, the tones as "material elements" diametrically
opposed. A content in this Importance, a substance within the meaning of the treated subject has
not in fact the art of music. Kahlert relies strongly rightly point out that the music is not
like the painting, a "word description can provide" (Ästh. 380), although its further assumption
is erroneous, that such word description could ever a 'workaround for the missing enjoyment of
art to offer. " But an explanatory understanding what it is, they can offer. The question of the
"What's the musical content would necessarily be answered in words, if the song really have
a "content" (an object) would have. For, "an" indefinite content to be thinking something different
than everyone may feel the only not play in words can be, precisely, no content in that role.

The
music consists of tone rows, clay molds, they have no other content itself when You remember again
to the architecture and the dance, which we also beautiful relations have placed no particular content.
Mag now the effect of a composition each according to his Cast on individuality and name, the
content of it is not just as the included Clay forms, because the music speaks not only by sound,
it speaks only sounds.

Krueger, probably the most knowledgeable proponents of the musical "content" against Hegel and Kahlert,
claims that the music just give another side of the same content, which the other arts, such as painting,
entitled.

"Any form of plastic," he says (posts, 131), "is a dormant: it is not the act but the act was
or beings. Not: Apollo overcomes says of the painting, but it shows the conqueror, the angry
fighters, "etc. Other hand, "the music is one of those stationary plastic nouns, the verb, activity,
the internal waves add, and if we have recognized there as the true resting Content: anger, love,
we see here is no less the true moving content: angry, loves, rushes,
surges, storms, "the latter is only half right:". rushing waves, and
can "storm the music, but "angry" and "love" they can not.

They are into it already feels like passions. We have to point back to our second chapter. Krueger
goes on the determination the painted content of the played music to put on the page. He says: "The
sculptor is Orestes is pursued by the Furies, appearing on the outer surface of his body in the eye,
mouth, Forehead, posture of the expression of the fugitives, gloom, despair, next to him, the figures
of the curse, which he mastered in a commanding and terrible majesty, also appeared to be in
persisting outlines, facial features, positions. The composer is Orestes the persecuted not based on
the outline out, but according to the page that is missing from the creator: he sings the Horror
and trembling of his soul, fleeing the fighting impulse, "and so I think this is completely wrong.
The Musicians' Orestes can neither so nor so, he can not play at all.

Let it not be that yes, the visual arts are the specific, historical person not able to give,
and we would not recognize the painted figure as this individual, would bring us not add the knowledge
of the historical-factual. Of course it is not Orestes the man with these experiences and specific
biographical moments, this can only Poets represent, because only he can tell. But the picture
"Orestes" shows us yet unmistakably a young man with noble features, in Greek garb, fear and
anguish in the faces and movements, it shows us the terrible figures of the goddesses of revenge,
pursuing him and distressing. All this is clear, no doubt, clearly narrated - whether the
man Orestes hot or otherwise. Only the images: that the youth committed a matricide, etc., are
not expressible. What can the art of music that visible (from the
Historical abstract) Content the painting of certainty oppose?

Diminished seventh chords, minor issues that billowing Bass, etc., in short musical forms,
which just as a woman rather than a youth, one of pursuers instead persecuted by the Furies, a jealous,
vengeful, have the tormented by physical pain, can just mean everything possible if you already
the piece of music will be a little mean.

It takes probably not the explicit reference to the earlier justified proposition that, if the
content and presentation ability of music is mentioned, only the pure Instrumental music may be considered.
No one will forget this as far as us, for example, the Orestes in Gluck's "Iphigenia objection."
This "Orestes" There's not the composer, the Words of the poet, shape and facial expressions of
the performers, costumes and decorations of the painter - this is what hinstellt Orestes done.
What added to the music is perhaps the Fairest of them all, but it's just the only thing to
do with the actual Orestes create added: singing.

Lessing has dealt with stunning clarity what the poet and what the visual making artists from
the history of the Laocoon can.

The poet, through the medium of Language is the historical, individual specific Laocoon, the
painter and sculptor, however, an old man with two boys (of that particular age, appearance,
costume, etc.), of the terrible Coiled serpent, expressing in facial expressions, position and
sign the anguish of approaching death. The musician says Lessing nothing. Quite understandable,
for nothing is precisely what this out it may be the Laocoon.

We have already indicated how closely the question of the content of music with their position
related to the natural beauty.

The musician can not see the model for his art, which the other arts, the determination and recognition
of their content guaranteed. An art of the prototypical beauty of nature is going on, in the
true sense be disembodied. The archetype their appearance meets us nowhere, so lacking in the sphere
of our tag collected.
 And
she saw what he saw. The child's hair was more like shining copper every day, his small nose
had the tiniest curve. By whatever trick of nature, which is implacable, he was not like her,
he was not like Tenney. He was a message from her bitter, ignorant past. Her strong shoulders
began to shake and her hands that steadied the child shook, too, so that he gave a little whimper
at finding himself insecure.

"Isr'el," she broke out, "before God!"

"Well," said he, in the snarl she had heard from him at those times when his devil quite got
the better of him, "what? What you got to tell?"

"It ain't so," she said, her voice broken by her chattering lips. "Before God, it ain't so."

"So ye know what I mean," he jeered, and even at the moment she had compassion for him, reading
his unhappy mind and knowing he hurt himself unspeakably. "Ye know, or ye wouldn't say 'tain't so."

Words of his own sprang up in her memory like witnesses against him, half phrases embodying
his suspicion of her, wild accusations when, like a drunken man, he had let himself go. But
this he did not remember. She knew that. Shut up in his cell of impeccable righteousness, he
believed he had dealt justly with her and no more. She would not taunt him with his words.
She had a compassion for him that reached into his future of possible remorse. Tira saw, and
had seen for a long time, a catastrophe, a "wind-up" before them both. Sometimes it looked
like a wall that brought them up short, sometimes a height they were both destined to fall
from and a gulf ready to receive them, and she meant, if she could, to save him from the recognition
of the wall as something he had built or the gulf as something he had dug. As she sat looking
at him now, wide-eyed, imploring, and the child trod her knee impatiently, a man went past
the window to the barn. It was Jerry, gone to fodder the cattle, and Jerry brought Raven to
her mind who, if he was obeying her by absence, was none the less protecting her. The trouble
of her face vanished and she drew a quick breath Tenney was quick to note.

"Who's that?" he asked her sharply, turning in his chair to command the other window.

"Jerry," she said. Her heart stilled, and she began to dress the child, with her mother's deftness.
"He comes a little early to fodder, 'fore he does his own."

"I dunno," said Tenney, irritably because he had to wear out his spleen, "why you can't fodder
the cows when anybody's laid up. There's women that do it all the time if their folks are called
away."

"Why, I could," said Tira, with a clear glance at him, "only he won't let me."

"What's he got to do with it," said Tenney, in surprise. "Won't let ye? Jerry Slate won't let
ye? Jerry ain't one to meddle nor make. I guess if you told him 'twas your place to do it an'
you'd ruther stan' up to it, he'd have no more to say."

The blood came again to her face. She had almost, she felt, spoken Raven's name, and a swift
intuition told her she must bury even the thought of it.

"There ain't," she said, "two nicer folks in this township than Charlotte an' Jerry, nor two
that's readier to turn a hand." 

Each took his little luggage - much as they did not have, these poor soldiers of exile - and in
silent train they went through the dark, empty streets of the city after the little railroad station.
The last moments passed among the soldiers saying goodbye to each other and from their French
friends had gathered their still more at the station - even Mr. Vergie had come and stood pale
and dark among the rest on the platform in silence the handshakes of the departing one reciprocating.

Since
started in the little church on the hill above the town baumbekränzten
produces a bell to ring.

It was the death bell, which accompanied the prayers that the priests for the life divorced citizens
of the city sent to heaven.

The simple taken her through the night sounding tones powerful all these serious and sad minded
people. The French took off their hats and said a silent prayer for the Soul of the deceased,
- the Hanoverian clasped their hands - no one knew what This ringing was dead, - but they died
so now for ever, which she so long in the heart worn and loved so
much had - their homes and their king.

 The train approached roared - even a handshake - one last parting word - and
the Hanoverian got into the cars, which should lead towards its
new, unknown future.

- "Adieu - adieu - bonne chance" was the answer from the groups of citizens
St. Dizier - Cappei with few immigrants, which is suitable for had decided
passage to America, stood silently, with moist eyes she looked out the
departing one, - it almost pulled the young man a moment after which their
fate for so long which his own had been connected, and which now went out
without him a life of adventure and dangers - as Louise entered the
picture with her gentle and loving eyes from his soul - he quickly
approached once again the car and held the Unterofficier Rühlberg,
the the blow was sitting out his hand.

"God commanded," he said in a choked voice - "and - to a happy reunion"

"That will come," the Unterofficier replied with a slightly forced
laugh behind which he tried to hide his emotion, "You will come to
their senses - we 'll keep a place open.

"

The conductor rushed to the train - the locomotive whistled and slowly
the wheels to roll.

  

Once again, the looking back waving their hands, in a low but clear through the night Silence
piercing sound echoed the Sterbeglöcklein of the old church across, - the Legionaire on the
departing train soldiers began their traditional song:

"We are funny
Hanoverian all together -"

but the sounds were played at a slower
pace than usual and as the train longer as always, removing in the
night went, accompanied by the mournful sound of bells, - because
the song sounded, that was usually so cheerful echoes in camp and
field, like a grave voice at the bier of a Dead, which can also lead
to rest.

A few more moments and all was dark in the distance disappeared -
largely faded the snorting of the machine and the rolling of the wheels.

Cappei

separated from the rest, and walked slowly back to town.

In quite a distance he followed Mr. Vergie, who also immediately after the had isolated the train
departs.

His eyes were fixed immovably on the young man before him, and his eyes seemed to pale green fire through
the night to shine, while his Trains were disfigured by rage and
hatred.

Cappei made a detour and went over to Mr. Challies house, in deep
silence and darkness lay there.

For a moment he stood there before
the big gate are closed, - he pressed both Hands to his lips and threw
a kiss back to the house. His eyes rested on him with a surprise excellently feigned. He replaced
his hat, turned about like a man blankly disconcerted and went back down the path, with the
decisive tread of one who cannot take himself off too soon. He stepped into the sleigh and,
drawing the robe about him, drove off, the horse answering buoyantly. Tira sat, the stillest
thing out of a wood where stalking danger lurks, her eyes on her sewing. Tenney was staring
at her; she knew it, and could not raise her lids. Often she failed to meet his glance because
she so shrank, not from his conviction of her guilt, but the fear of seeing what she must remember
in blank night watches, to shudder over. For things were different at night, things you could
bear quite well by day. Now he spoke, with a restrained certainty she trembled at. He had drawn
his conclusions; nothing she could possibly say would alter them.

"Comin' in, wa'n't he?" the assured voice asked her. "See me, didn't he, an' give it up?"

Tira forced herself to look at him, and the anguished depths of her eyes were moving to him
only because they seemed to mourn over his having found her out. "Even the King burst through the door handle, the sword and brought by the bystanders four
died. "(Albert Krantzius, Dan. lib. V., cap 3.) And that was still the" good Eric. "

If such "moral effects of music" still on the agenda, they'd probably against internal rebellion
not to be sensible about the witches power to express what careless in the extraterritorial sovereign
human mind to the thoughts and decisions defeats and confused.

The examination, however, that the most famous of this musical trophies the gray antiquity
members, makes most inclined to win the thing a historical point of view.

It suffers no doubt that the music at the old peoples a far more immediate Effect expressed as present,
because humanity expressed in its primitive stages of education The elemental is a lot of related
and undisclosed than later, where consciousness and self-determination assume its rightful
place. This natural receptivity was the peculiar state of the music in Greek antiquity helpful
the. It was not art in our sense. Sound and Rhythm is almost isolated and self-represented in
scanty Forging ahead the place of the rich, spirit-filled forms that make up the current musical
art. Everything what is known of the music of the times, can with certainty to a merely sensual,
but But within these constraints include refined work of the same. Music in the modern, there's
no artistic importance in classical antiquity, otherwise they would have for the future Development
can go no more lost than the classical poetry, sculpture and Architecture
have been lost.

The preference of Greeks for a thorough study of their the subtlest tonal is pointed as a purely
scientific is not here.

The lack of balance, the bias of the melody in the narrowest limits recitative Expression,
the last of the old sound system to truly Entwickelungsunfähigkeit musical Make wealth made
an absolute meaning of music as a musical art in a musical sense impossible, it was almost never
independent, but always in connection with poetry, Dance and facial expressions used, therefore, as
a complement to other arts. Music had only Profession, reviving by rhythmic pulse and variety of
tone colors, and finally to comment as an intense increase in recitative declamation words and feelings.
The art of music therefore mainly affected by its sensual and its symbolic side. On these factors
urged on, she had them by such a concentration of large, so subtle effectiveness . Form The
intensification of melodic material to the use of quarter tones and the "Enharmonic musical scale
today's musical art exhibit has as little more than the characteristic
pressure of the special keys and their close clinging to the spoken
or sung word.

This increased tonal relationships found for her close circle also a much larger Receptivity
in the audience before. As the Greek ear infinitely finer interval differences capable of grasping, as
it was that our floating in temperature is brought up, it was even the mind of the peoples of
the changing retuning through music far more accessible and more attractive as we, in the artistic
form of music cherish, a contemplative pleasure, the the elemental
influence paralyzed.

So then appears a more intense effect of music in ancient times probably understandable.

Similarly, a modest part of the history to us by the specific effect of the various Keys among
the ancients have been preserved. Win a basis of explanation in the strict Decision with which elected
the individual keys for specific purposes and unmixed were obtained. The Doric key needed for
the elderly for long, especially religious celebrations; with the Phrygian they fired at the
army, the Lydian meant sorrow and sadness, and the aeolian sounded funny when it was walking
in love, or wine. Through these rigorous, conscious Separation of four main keys for as many classes of
states of mind, and by their consistent content with appropriate only to that key poems had ear and
mind involuntarily a decided tendency to win the sounding of a musical tone is equal to the
corresponding to reproduce the feeling. On the basis of unilateral training was now the music
indispensable, docile companion of all the arts, was a means to educational, political and other purposes,
it was all just not an independent art. If it merely some Phrygian Sounds needed to brave the soldiers
to drive against the enemy, and the loyalty of the grass widows was secured by Dorian songs, then may
the sinking of the Greek tonal system of generals and spouses will
be mourned - the esthetician and the composer will not go back do it.

We share that pathological emotion are looking at a pure conscious Tonwerk contrary. This contemplative
is the only artistic, true form of hearing, and their relation to is the raw emotion of the savage
and the swarming of the music enthusiasts in a class. Enjoy the beautiful is a corresponding,
no suffering, as indeed the word "art appreciation" thoughtfully expressed. The emotional and of
course keep it for heresy against the omnipotence of the music when someone from the heart-revolutions
and riots will use what they find in each piece of music and honestly participate. It is then
apparently "cold," unfeeling "," understanding nature ". Anyway. Precious and important it seems
to follow the creative spirit, as he magically a new world Items unlocks before us, these kinds
of relationships in all attracted to each other, and draws so from now on, breaking down produces,
and destroyed all the richness of an area dominant, which ennobles the ear to the finest trained
and most meaning tool. Not described an alleged passion drags us suffer. Joyful spirit in affect-free,
non-sacrificial but intimately enjoy the artwork we see pass before us and fine knowing what Schelling
so beautiful "the sublime indifference of the beautiful names." [40] This self-Enjoy with a keen
mind is the most dignified, most healing, not the lightest Way of
listening to music.

  

[40] "On the relationship of the visual arts to nature."

The most important factor in the mental process which accompanies the apprehension of a Tonwerk
and to the enjoyment so, is most overlooked. It is the mental satisfaction that the listener will
be to follow the intentions of the composer continually and voranzueilen, to be found in his
suspicions confirmed here, there pleasantly disappointed. It is understood that this intellectual
Hinüber-and forth flow, this constant giving and receiving, unconsciously and quickly going on.
Only such music is full of artistic enjoyment That offer this spiritual successor to that very
fact a reflection of the imagination could be called, causes and worthwhile. Without mental
activity, there is absolutely no aesthetic enjoyment. The music, however, this form of mental activity
about the superior quality, because their works do not stand immovable and with one blow, but to successively
on Spinning listeners, so they do not by this, and any lingering interrupt authorizing Consider
but a request in the strongest vigilance tireless companion. Such monitoring can be increased
with intricate compositions to mental work. How many individual Individuals may also undergo some nations
it is very difficult. The singing Autocracy of the upper part of the Italians is a major cause
in the spiritual comfort this people, which the persistent penetration is unattainable, which the
Norse an artificial tissue of harmonic and contrapuntal intricacies loves to follow. For this, listeners,
whose mental activity is low, light of enjoyment, and such music
Bolde can consume masses of music, which recoils from the artistic
spirit.

The necessary with every spiritual enjoyment of art is currently at the same audience Tonwerk prove
very active in various degrees, it can in sensual and emotional natures reduced to a minimum,
in the predominantly intellectual personalities almost decisive be. must "True" middle right,
in our opinion, this somewhat to the right tend.

  For Berauschtwerden's needs only weakness, but really hearing
  is an aesthetic an art [41].
  
  [41] W. Heinse enthusiastically dissolute temperament-had it fully
  comply with certain of the musical Beauty to see the benefit of the vague
  sense impression. He goes (in the "Hildegard von Hohenthal") so far as
  to say: "The real music ... is going on everywhere on the purpose,
  the meaning of words and the sensation transfer in the audience, so
  light and comfortable that they (the Music) does not notice.

  Such music lasts forever, it is just so natural that she does not notice,
  but only the sense of the words passes. "
  
  An aesthetic record of the music but found just the opposite because
  instead of where they are completely "remembers" her aufmerkt and each
  its beauties are immediately aware of it. Heinse whose Naturalism genius
  we admire the customs of a reasonable not fail, is in a poetic,
  even more musically been greatly exaggerated. In the poverty of witty
  writings on Music you get used to, as an excellent Heinse musical aestheticians
  treat and quote. Could you while ignoring the real, as is usually taken
  after a few aperçus a flood of platitudes and manifest error bursts
  that scares you about such ignorance really? Moreover, goes hand in Hand
  with technical ignorance Heinse skewed aesthetic verdict as his
  analysis of the operas of Gluck, Jomelli, including Traetta demonstrate,
  in which one rather than artistic instruction almost exclusively
receives enthusiastic exclamations.

The thing that most listeners Gefühlsschwelgen is that the artistic conception of the Musical
and beautiful have no education. The lay person "feels" with music most of the educated Artists
at least. The more important fact, the aesthetic moment in the handset (just as in Artwork),
the more it leveled the merely elementary. That's why the venerable axiom the theorist: "A
somber music arouses in us feelings of sadness, serenity awakens Happiness "- in this expansion
is not always correct. If each hollow Requiem, each should have noisy funeral march, each whining
Adagio the power to make us sad - Who would then live longer so? A tone poem looks at us with clear
eyes of beauty, we sincerely rejoice in it, and when all the pain of the century, the subject
would have.

The loudest cheers but one of Verdi's final or a quadrille has Musardschen not always made us
happy.

The layman and man of feeling like asking whether a music is funny or sad - the musicians, whether they
be good or bad. This short shadow has significantly different to what Site, both parties are facing
the sun.

If we said that our aesthetic pleasure in a piece of music depends on its artistic Value judge, this shall
not prohibit that a simple horn call, a yodelling in the mountains are sometimes can appeal to
a greater delight than the most excellent symphony. occurs in this case but the music in the series of
natural beauty. Not that this particular structure in sounds, but as this particular type of
natural action suits us have heard and can agree with the landscape character of the surroundings
and the personal enjoyment of art every mood to leave power behind him. So there is a preponderance
of impression, which is the elemental accessed from the artistic,
the aesthetic alone, as the theory of artistic beauty, the Music conceive
of only her artistic side, that even those of their effects recognize
that they as a human spirit product by a particular design of those
elemental factors that produces the pure intuition.

The most necessary requirement of an aesthetic recording of the music is in that a piece of music
for its own sake, hear what it is now over and with what interpretation. Once the music is only used
as a means to foster a certain atmosphere in us, accessory, decorative, as it ceases to act as a
pure art. The elemental of the music is infinitely often confused with the artistic beauty of the
same, so made a part of the whole and thereby caused unspeakable
confusion.

Hundred utterances, the likes of "the music" will apply, not of this, but from the sensory effect
of their material.

When Henry IV in Shakespeare (part II. IV, No. 4) require the dying music can, it really does not
happen to listen to the reasoning advanced composition, but dreaming in their stand against loose
element to sway. Nor are Portia and Bassanio (in his "Merchant of Venice" vote), while the disastrous
choice of boxes ordered pay attention to music. J. Strauss has lovely, so clever in his music
better Waltzes set down, - it ceases to be, once you dance it just in time wants. In all these cases,
it is no matter what music is made when they has only required basic character. Where, however,
occurs indifference to the individual, because there is sound effect, not musical art. Only he
who is not just the general After-effect of feeling, but the unforgettable, just this particular
piece of music perception takes with him, has heard and enjoyed. Those collected impressions on our minds
and their high mental and physiological significance can not prevent that the criticism is different
everywhere, what artistic effect upon the availability of what is elemental. An aesthetic view
has music as both a cause and not because regarded as an effect,
not as Manufacturing, but as a product.

Just as often, as the elemental power of music that is more moderate, calm and exercise Dissonance
and concordance mediating generally harmonious with nature of music itself confused. With
the current state of the art of music and philosophy, we must in the interest both the ancient Greek
extension of the term "music" on all science and art, and not to allow the formation of all
spiritual powers. The famous apologia for the art of music in The Merchant of Venice "(VI)
[42] is based on such a confusion of music itself with the dominant spirit of well they sound,
the agreement of measurement. One could in similar places without
much change instead of "music" and "poetry," "Art, yes," beauty "
ever set.
But you'll see."

Dick began to read and, since Nan was not by to be loved and hated, with an intent mind. Once
or twice he turned back, Raven saw, to ponder some passage again. It was slow reading. He had
not the passionate haste of one who has thirsted for some such community of assurance, and
flies over the ground, plucking a leaf here and there, meaning to return. When he had finished
he closed the book, laid it on the table, and pushed it aside as if he had definitely done with it.

"Jackie," said he, "I'm mighty glad you showed me this."

"Good!" said Raven. "Got inside it, have you?"

"Why, yes," said Dick, with assurance. "That's easy enough. It isn't new, you know. And it
isn't so much my getting inside that as getting inside Old Crow."

"Oh!" said Raven mildly, "so you got inside Old Crow. Now what did you find there?"

"I don't know," said Dick, "whether you'd better be told. From a psychopathic point of view,
that is. But I rather guess you ought."

"Dick," said Raven, "in the name of all the gods you worship, what shouldn't I be told? And
exactly how do you see us two living along here, mild as milk? What's our relation? Sometimes,
when I find you plodding after me, I feel as if you were my trainer. Sometimes I have a suspicion
I really am off my nut and you're my keeper. Out with it, boy? How do you see it? Come!"

Dick, from a patent embarrassment, was staring down at the hearth, and now he looked quickly
up in a frankness truly engaging.

"Jack," he said, "you needn't think you're going to be left here alone, to work things out
by yourself. There's no danger of mother. I told her to keep off. She only irritates you. But
she hasn't gone back home. She's right there in Boston, waiting to come."

Raven got up and walked back and forth through the room. Then he returned to his chair.

"Dick," he said conversationally, "if you were as young in years as you are in your mind, I'd
mellow you."

Dick generously ignored this. He had the impeccable good nature of the sane set in authority
over the sick.

"What I think, is," he said, with a soothing intonation Raven despairingly recognized as the
note of strength pitting itself against weakness, "we can work it out together, you and I.
We can do it better than anybody else. I suppose if I went back you'd send for Nan. But that
won't do, Jack. You'll see it for yourself, when you're all right again. Now what I mean about
Old Crow is, that his complexes are like yours--or rather yours are like his. Don't you see
what an influence he's had on you? More than Miss Anne even."

"Hold up," said Raven. "I'm being mighty patient with you, but certain things, you know, you
don't say."

"You used to go up there and see him," said Dick, willingly relinquishing Miss Anne. There
were times when, as he remembered from boyhood, old Jack was dangerous. "Some of the things
about him shocked you. Some appealed to you. Pity, too: you must have pitied him tremendously.
You probably knew about his craze over this girl he mentions here. You may have heard things
about her, just as he did. Jack, I can see--the whole thing has come to me in the last ten
minutes--Old Crow has been the big influence in your life. Everything else has come from that.
And then the war knocked you out and you got cafard and the whole blasted business blew up
and came to the surface and--there you are."

"Yes," said Raven, "here we are."

He leaned back in his chair and laughed until he could have cried. He hopes for a lenient Treatment
for what he could have committed such illegal or not in accordance with applicable laws and
stands at your disposal. "

The young Cappei stepped forward, remained in position before the
Military officials and looked him with his open, clear eyes clear
and firm.

"I am," the official said, to which the appearance of the young man a beneficent seemed to
make an impression, "that you have decided, in the appropriate relationship to give back and
foolish and adventurous activities. I will not investigate and ask what plans have you entertained
for your emigration, which Companies have joined you - you alone are under the Prussian laws land
was still liable for military service and are to stand trial over their unauthorized removal
have. I was entitled to arrest you and keep you in custody, I However, cherish your voluntary reappearance
no suspicion that you are the investigation and the penalty may be imposed to avoid, so I want from
such a measure Refrain and give you your freedom to satisfy just about the form, you need a Guarantees
only ". -

"The guarantee I take, Bailie," Niemeyer said the old animated. "I put my House and my yard as
an adhesion to it that the young man not far from here and each request
will provide.

"

"I want to accept this guarantee," said the officer - he sat down
at his desk, picked up a small log that had to sign the old farmer
and his nephew and then dismissed the two.

When they were gone, he pulled a small Aktenfascikel from a sealed compartment out of his desk
and opened the same.

"The appearance of this young man," he said, "is certainly inspire confidence, he has such a free
face and a gaze so open, that I was hardly secret and hidden intentions can trust. I, too, is
the old man as a man of practical sense of calm, which is the actual conditions under orders implicitly,
and all agitation and conspiracy disapproval known, and yet here I am a very particular advice
received, after which the embassy in Paris just this young Cappei because it has received
communications as a fanatical enemy of Prussian rule, and as a dangerous conspirator and agitator
means, which is just so here returned to France through Communications on the local conditions,
and so on Truppendislokationen reach leave, - I find that a little unlikely before, "he continued,"
but the communication is determined, and the time circumstances demand the greatest caution.
I will watch him closely can be arranged and a monitoring of its
correspondence with the postal authority, - is that Communication
is correct, will soon be found a tangible indicium.

"

He wrote after a thorough review of the Aktenfascikels an injunction, leaving his secretary call and
gave him the same command with the accelerator and Discrete expedition.

Then closed the secret files he left again in his secretary and turned his regular work to.

Long will the old farmer Niemeyer was sitting with his sister and the young in the great Cappei
Lamp in the living room of his house together. Still inquired and asked the two old - Always
told the young man - and more clearly the mother felt that in all
these Narratives was missing something and that something that deeply
and intimately with the life of her heart son must hang together.

And when she finally visited the rest, as they quickly prepared his son in his bedroom with the
clean, high-piled feather bed out, and the hands in blessing on his head down, had they stayed awake
in her room in the armchair at the foot of her Bed and sitting deep in thought about the dispensations
of Providence, which, though the ambitious Dreams had been destroyed in what they thought of the
distant son, but what this son alive, fresh and blooming returned to her and now she had sacrificed
that dream like the beautiful and loving reality. She felt even with the so-fine female instinct
what is the hidden point that in all the tales of her son still remained dark; she felt that
the love between him and the distant country from which he returned
a Band have forged.

But she was not sad about it and again set ambitious hopes stirred
in her heart.

For as good, so brave and so handsome young man like so her son could have only one choice have
taken to him and his family was honorable.

And when she finally visited their camp, they concluded, those who have chosen their son wants
and what her mother's pride in leading and respected community was looking full of joyous Hope and
confidence in their pious evening prayer.

The young Cappei but was in physical fatigue, which the youth even more powerful feel as the
age, and in that sweet feeling of wellbeing, which produces the consciousness
after a long Absence to rest back home in the bosom of the house,
now in a strong and deep Sleep lost.

And wonderfully blended in his dreams, the images of the distance to which his heart it dragged
on and the home, in which the roots of his life had beaten each other.

He soon found himself in the house of old Challier on the side of his and Louise at the top of
the always assume the flourishing trading business - soon showed him the dream of the dear
Picture of his beloved, as the same happy smile entered the house
of his uncle, as she went to his mother's hand in domestic affairs
and happy new life into the old home did.

So hard to unite these different images in reality were, they combined but the wonderful game
of the dream of harmonious unity, which it with a sweet Feeling of happiness and joy filled.

Ninth
chapter.

In a large hall-like room in the backyard of a gloomy house in the Faubourg St. Antoine was the
DEMOCRATIC Committee gathered, which was formed to access the plebiscite influence and the people
in mass to determine the effect that it is the vote either completely prevent or where the audacity
to want to be present to vote "no."

The meeting took place in already quite advanced hour of the evening, the great dark Room with
the dirty, smoke-blackened walls was by a few oil lamps, the on a large table in the center stood,
little is clear, at this table sat the heads Committees in the hot lights, while the rest of
the room, which is about forty to fifty of the most outstanding agents
of the Committees were, was shrouded in darkness.

At this table we saw in the middle Lermina Jules, one of the tireless
agitators republican movement in France, a man with deep-pale, as
cast in bronze Face, which only live in the glowing, eerie and gloomy-looking
eyes seemed and that when he spoke with his hard every negative voice
modulation, by no facial expression has been moved.

Here we saw Ulric de Fonvielle, the companion Victor Noir in the fatal visit the house of Prince Pierre
Bonaparte - with his big beard and his restless, agitated Thünder
and important nature.

Here was Varlin, the bookbinder, in his stooping posture with a cold sneer on the lips, with the downcast
look, the only times in quick flash from the bottom shot up and almost
always those who, on which he sat, with his piercing sharp expression
from the version introduced.

Here we saw Raoul Rigault, the young twenty-one conspirator with his pale, smugly smiling face, the
tired, somewhat indifferent eye behind the monocle hiding in his foppish, but somewhat shabby
elegance, with the laundry of questionable Purity, the little stick with the fake silver knob in
his hand.

Here one could see Ancel, Boyer, Delacour, Dembrun, Portalier, Robin, Mangold - some in blouses,
partly in the simple civil suit - and on all these dark faces rested
Fixed expression grim determination and fierce intransigence.

They were largely Part of the leaders of the Paris branch of the International Workingmen's Association,
which, however, no longer as it used to enjoy themselves a certain benevolent toleration of the
government had, after being dissolved by judicial decision. It was no longer those International
Tolain of Fribourg and that by teaching legal and peaceful agitation The position of the working class
to improve targeted, and directed that of ideal conceptions was.

Those leaders were gone, the International Today was a proscribed
and outlawed Company, which was hidden long the investigation by the
police, and in secret for But the more effective propagirte their
teachings and followed their plans.

These teachings, however, were Today, open and without reserve to the destruction of the existing political
system and the existing Company addressed, and the plans, the only real secret of the selected
districts, the heads was known, sat up a fast and strong annihilation all authority and all property.

The
International Association as such could not deal with the question of the plebiscite, they could
not gather without police immediately suspend resolution, they therefore
had the DEMOCRATIC Committee formed, headed by their leaders were
in turn, to exert their influence in this form to the plebiscite and
to find possible this opportunity to use to bring about a catastrophe.

were
sitting on benches and chairs around the table of actually conducting
Committees whose outstanding Agents in various parts of the city of
Paris, almost all in the blouse of the workers, all same expression
of calm and coldblooded intransigence in the face.

Lermina rose:

"We, my friends," he said, "now the reports from all parts of France received, which we communicate
that all the Committees are constituted to this sacrilegious Farce counter, through which one in a
fake expression of popular will will look for a new despotism and tyranny support. In general,
the Democrats Party organized in order to the confused and fearful population to pressure their influence
exercise. After all, what one communicates to us, it will be difficult, a large majority, then
to bring that to the people asked the question will be answered "No". The fear of the power resources
of the violence is too great - however, we must then strive with all our strength, that the
greater part of the population holds back from any vote to protect the world to prove that the majority
of which would reach the government, in proportion the total number of population means nothing.
I have therefore the instruction, which They have all previously approved already distributed
to a number of reliable people, which are at this moment already gone out into the provinces to
all the agitation to organize even stronger and to revive. Our tireless Cernuschi friend told
me about London, once the sum of one hundred thousand francs shall send to the necessary and
to prepare inevitable cost of our activity. "

A shout of applause resounded through the hall.

"I have spoken to him the thanks of the committee," continued Lermina, "and now propose before
that we share here in Paris itself unvorzüglich a demonstrative meeting in Scene which here in
the capital, the movement in the river brings the provinces and gives an example. I propose to
this end, the hall before the Folies-Bergere, which provides the necessaries space and of the whole
population of Paris is known. Did any of you, my friends, Some objected to the proposal? "

The assembly was silent - individual cries of approval were heard.

"So we want to," continued Lermina, "the Democrats gathering at the Folies-Bergère calculated
on the fourth day, from now on, settle. And I ask all our friends, " He drove away, turning
to the audience in the back room of the hall, "in the various Parts of the city of Paris to
summon all their activity to the visit of the Assembly so to make numerous as possible. At the same
time I urge all of you, my friends, you prepare and think about what each of you will say to the
Assembly, so light the words and inflame the masses into an energetic
resistance.

"Above all," Ulric de Fonvielle cried in a loud voice, "we must place this treacherous Liars
and hypocrites Ollivier the people in his true character shows. There is still People, "he continued,"
which can be deceived by his past and how His name carries a certain influence, - will mislead
him by the imperial tyranny, the people Lead him to destroy it is to rob him and the last remnant
of his popularity.

I will talk about Ollivier, "he said driving a hand through his beard," the people Ollivier has thrown
in the gutter - and the empire has fished him out of it again!

"-

Loud laughter, cheers and applause filled the hall. Then came a momentary Silence.

Varlin rose, pulled a paper from his pocket and said:

"I'm in all
the measures of the Committees and totally agree with his proposals.

But I now make my hand a proposal, which due to the caution and the purpose is to protect our
agitators against a coup government. "

Attentively listened to all.

"You know, my friends," continued Varlin, "that the International is prohibited by law, and
that the police have the right to prevent any action of this Association immediately. But now
our entire organization, if we also constituted as a Democrat Committee have yet to the International.
We are all members of the Bureau of the same, and in all provinces are again branch associations
of the International, in whose hands the Agitation is. That gives the police an opportunity
if you will, our whole political be described as an activity of the International and forbid - it
would be unwise, a provociren to such a ban or make possible, and I regard it as necessary, that
the part of the International held a public rally, which completely makes clear that the Democrats Association
against the plebiscite with the international Workers' agitation
has nothing to do.

I think such a Kundthuung for practically necessary, but also, "he went a quick look around
in a circle throwing away," so essential to identify However, because
the activity exerted by us now with the actual goals of the International
as the same are issued in the statutes of the same, not identical.
"

"So, the International disavow the action of the Democrat Committees,"
said Lermina, the flaming eye on Varlin instructive.

"Well," said Raven, in a futile reassurance, "perhaps he thinks he's left it somewhere, and
if he doesn't particularly need it--Jerry told me only this morning the doctor said he might
as well be getting used to a cane."

"No," said Tira conclusively, "he don't think he's left it anywheres. He's keepin' still, that's
all."

Immediately Raven saw the menacing significance of Tenney's keeping still. His mind ran with
a quick foot over the imprisonment of the two there together. Was there a moment, he wondered,
when the suffering brute was not threatening to her, when her heart could rest itself for the
next hurried flight? He ventured his question.

"Has he been"--he hesitated for a word and found what sounded to him a mawkish one--"good to
you at all, these last weeks?"

Tira reflected a moment and then, for the first time since she came in from the cold, the blood
rushed to her haggard cheeks. She remembered a moment, the day before the burning of the crutch,
when he had found her doing her hair before the bedroom glass and had caught her to him wildly.
She had put him away from her, though gently, because his violence, whether it took the form
of starved passion or raging hate, always seemed to her the unbecoming riot of a forward child,
and he had left her in a shamefaced anger, a grumbling attempt to recover his lost dignity.
Tira hid even from herself the miserable secrets of marital savagery. No sacrifice was too
great to hide from Tenney her knowledge of his abasement. Most of all must she hide it from
another man, and that man Raven. Her answer was not ready, but she had it for him, and he understood,
in his unfailing knowledge of her, that it was the first crooked one she had ever given him,
and for the first time he felt anger toward her. She was defending her enemy, and against him.

"He does the best he can," she said. "He takes things terrible hard. I dunno's I ever see anybody
that took 'em so hard."

Then, as he did not speak, she looked at him and meeting the cold unresponsiveness in his face
her composure broke and she stretched out her hands to him in a wildness of entreaty.

"Oh, don't you look like that," she cried. "If you turn from me 'twill be my death."

He was not cold now. He bent to her and took her hands in his.

"Tira," he said, "come away with me. You can't bear this any longer. Take the child and come.
You'd be safe. You'd be happy, if you weren't afraid. Don't go back there for another minute.
Stay here over night, and to-morrow I'll take you away."

He was looking at her, his eyes holding hers as his hands held her hands. And, whatever he
had meant, the strangest, swiftest retribution of his life came to him through the change in
her face. How could flesh and muscle bring about such an alteration in human line and texture,
the Mother of Sorrows transformed to a Medusa head? Her lips parted, trembling over words they
could not bring themselves to say. Her eyes widened into darkness. Her brows drew together
in a pitiful questioning. And her voice, when she did speak, was a vibrating protest against
what her eyes knew and her mind.

"You don't mean," she said, "that?"

Raven dropped her hands as if they had struck him. The question was a rushing commentary on
his life and hers. Was he, she meant, only another actor in this drama of man's hunger and
savagery? Was he a trader in the desire of beauty, that tragic dower nature had thrown over
her like a veil, so that whoever saw it with a covetous eye, longed to possess and rend it?
Probably Tira never did what would be called thinking. But her heart had a vital life of its
own, her instinct was the genius of intuition. He had been kind to her, compassionate. She
had built up a temple out of her trust in him, and now he had smoked the altar with the incense
that was rank in her nostrils. He had brought, not flowers and fruits, but the sacrifice of
blood. And he, on his part, what did he think? Only that he must save her.

"No, Tira," he said, "I don't mean that. I mean--what you want me to mean. You can't understand
what it is to a man to know you're afraid, to know you're in danger and he can't help you.
I didn't ask you as I ought. I asked you to come away with me. I ask you again. Come away with
me and I'll take you to the best place I know. I'll take you to Nan."

He had not guessed he was going to say this. Only, as he spoke, he knew in his inner mind the
best place was Nan. Suddenly she seemed to be in the room with them. What was it but her cool
fragrant presence? And she understood. Tira might not. She might feel these turbid waves of
his response to he knew not what: the beauty and mystery of the world, the urge of tyrant life,
all bound up in the presence of this one woman. She was woman, hunted and oppressed. He was
man, created, according to the mandate of his will, to save or to undo her. The refinement of the expressions does not taste and sense of form alone not too virile,
- just living as one with the word preserved as an organism the language of the epic before withering
and dying. To make this understandable, it is difficult if you do not feel it.

YOUNG:

I feel it. I often felt when I read Gottfried Keller. A very common word, that in our everyday
language sounded so flat and so dead looked like a worn coin, suddenly
stood there like a magic cloak wrapped strange and new.

OLD MAN:

And yet the most of our young poets, word searches, but what is worse, they understand not to
tell on a large breath. I do not deny the authority of the Writer, his sentences apart hook
and deploy them in a stormy pace to leave if the situation him and his nature to do so. But
just as a man may linger for a long time in a state of breathlessness, little can tolerate this Book
without that it aroused unease and distaste. I have had books in hand, in which close and loud
narrow-chested little sentence stood side by side, dull and sad as soldiers at the parade. Individual
parts of a sentence floated like cut hands and feet in a broth unnecessary punctuation, and
each rhythm was torn, because a decent mediocrity of the letter is less respected as a tormented
nonsense, or because the feeling awakened should be, the author was deeply moved by what he wrote.
From the Author will be required no emotion, God has not every tree and every hill a List reassigned
to read that says: how beautiful, how vast, how characteristic am I do. God is humble, he is invisible,
hidden in his world, and with the great artists It is the same. Invisibility of the narrator
is asked on the says what he most Visibility.

YOUNG:

There is nothing wrong. There is no way to deny that such a thick volume Novel is the story
of the strict form difficult if not impossible to hold.

Such Book would be bored by its monotony, I think, and you can not
wrong the author To give this fate when he talks of dramatic and exciting
descriptions of his book seeks to avert.

OLD MAN:

This is an issue in itself. One can not expect a cookbook that scientific Solves problems. If there
is a poet too difficult to create a work of art, so be content himself with the concoction,
but he should not then claim to be called an artist. Do the monster for fat volumes are written,
of which you speak? And if they must be written, I am committed about my involvement with
them?

Wanted our discussions in these lower circles represent what was
there not to say anything about which to complain: about the women's
writing, publishing, the wretched translations from other languages,
etc. But we want the most artistic of all the laws on our Entertainment
use and stay on task.

YOUNG:

You're right. However, there are mixing products, which are not allowed to discard and a deeper
Action and a mightier than the creation motif have pure art. This must be not forgotten.

OLD MAN:

I think this is a mistake.

Those works of art that behind and duration of effect back are the products that you mentioned
are just not truly be alive, and its decline is only a matter of time.

YOUNG:

All, all the doomed. Even Homer and Shakespeare.

OLD MAN:

A foolish phrase.

You will go under if the world is sinking, and the light in Darkness turns. They belong to humanity,
and of the immortality humanity to speak out has no meaning.

YOUNG:

Following me is not quite clear. It is a matter of the story to the Show an operation and within
the process again to the coloring of individual images or situations for without such pictures,
I would still carry more history than art. How bring I now the situation without violating the
law of the epic continue to flow contrary? With In short, how can I be both narrative and vivid?

OLD
MAN:

To answer this question I will read you a passage from Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship. It says:
"Two or three houses were in full flame. In the garden there was no one can save because of the
fire in the garden arch. William was embarrassed by his friends, less because of his things. He
did not dare to leave the children, and saw the accident expand forever. He brought in a few hours
of anxiously situation. Felix was on his lap to sleep, Mignon was lying next to him and held his
hand. Finally had the measures did stop the fire stations. The burned buildings collapsed, The
morning came, the children began to freeze, and he himself was mild in its Clothes falling dew
almost unbearable. He led them to the rubble of collapsed Building, and they found next to a
coal-ash pile and a very comfortable warmth. The dawning day brought all friends and acquaintances
gradually together, etc. "You see clear how chaste and reserved the extraordinary event in the
general narrative mood dissolves. Quiet follows the painting of the most economical beautiful situation
of the person lying on the ash heap of the new process, and in the sentence There is not the
slightest excitement. Compare this with even the appearance of a fire Zola, detail of forces itself
on individuality. The enormous flood of details destroyed the image and flooded the imagination.
From fifty pages of description makes the epic poet ten lines. The narrative style is based not
on the painting of the situations, but He calls the situation out only to higher purpose, to glide
past them in perfect peace to leave. It is quite exemplary Kleist, perhaps the greatest narrative
genius is that we have. As in folk tales, with a raised scarcity it creates movement to movement.
Only in this way also creates the vitality of the term, she is the
Papierene taken, and it has supported the most accomplished portrayer,
she suddenly has inner strength the blood of a breathing creature,
and how the work on the whole, it is not in itself an organism with
flesh and soul.

The tree is made up of tiny cells, and the health of its Fruit depends
on the health of those inconspicuous tissue.

The breadth and wealth of period requires the breadth and depth of the whole, not adventurousness
of operations, not Weitspurigkeit the system, not the most select psychological tinkering,
no novelty of the topic, no external power, no spirit, no joke, not philosophical depth, a work
to which the qualities of true epic and rest lack, raise to the rank of an artwork.

YOUNG:

Now it is once again on the rest. But we have found that it is the movement the art of life
is, we have found it very nice that the futility of Motion produces the impression of art,
is now suddenly the rest Allesbedingende be. This is bewildering. Rest? That would be synonymous
with cold, that would mean, the whole denied being the poet to speak the Artistentum the word.

OLD
MAN:

Relieve all your zeal, you'll soon see how thoughtless he is. The narrative art It provides past
and serve is a Do-Lived, Seen-Do, Done-being. While the drama on the presence of the events of
the passions is based is the epic or the novel one turned back, back Look ahead - all natural,
and so is condemned it for its shape to a greater calm and stateliness, as his playing but is preceded
by a viewer, an observer, a sentence ends, summarizer. While is the drama of a seemingly detached,
isolated natural product, the story has consistently and return on each line to the narrator,
and his attitude determines everything. It is thus only an apparent cold and quiet to the withholding
of fire. The Creator of such a work is all the more important need to hide his own personality,
but because he himself is the representative of the whole world that he produces. When he stops,
to remain invisible, our illusion is suffering harm, and the apparent calm thus contains for him
all the effects of his art. We nevertheless intimately linked with the work, us all with his
own eyes, experience their own humorous or tragic frame of mind to
have, it depends on his person and his poet value.

His belief and spiritual force of a hand, and the rest on the other
hand, enabling him, light and shadow distribute, create images to
make time perspectives, the two poles are called between which moves
his art.

Therefore requires the epic art is a perfect Maturity of the mind.

YOUNG:

It is therefore not to feel oppressed, but tamed sense to spread Heat.

Then the work suffers damage if too much light falls on a single form? Obviously. How it behaves
with the figures? How far they are allowed on the area the narrative lift plastic?

OLD MAN:

It depends on substance and tone of the whole. Let us once the course of several works epic
Prose even compare to that fact: Herodotus' histories, the Don Quixote, the Wilhelm Master and
Tolstoy's War and Peace.

Herodotus has a natural, personal naivety that the age and a young, rising Culture meet. He has no
role models, yet he needs them. He is not ready, a to shape an art
form.

He avoids Jewellery words. He keeps away from all the abstractions. "He says." His tone is that
of a man who is rich in experience and knowledge among Its as simple as sitting and really
are of particular customer. However, shows his Work is a solid unity of style and not only externally
but also internally: The actions the people are under the sway of Nemesis. steeped in this belief
receives its creation is not only moral value but also artistic power.

Cervantes, of course, already based on traditions. But he destroyed by themselves their served.
The moral narrative and the action a plan and submit to outside mental an idea under. By drawing
against the pathetic hero of Catholicism to the field, finds it covers those high form of representation
which we call humor and what his characters far more contours are more meaningful than they seem
to have in the reality of their existence. Cervantes is also (in the mundane sense) naive narrator,
but has at its naivete of art appreciation already significant share. It is clear that this is not
the rapporteur of true Events.

With the creation of a fantasy world, the unabashed glee at the event and its reproduction at
an end. The narrator has to associate the Fabulist, and Technical questions arise almost automatically
Everything here is already art: the characters and its design, the plan fully girded threads of the
plot, dialogue, and his motor Importance. But by some miraculous instinct all this has again received
the color of nature, the deceptive guise of truth.

Goethe's novel is primarily the manifesto of a great personality. When the Spanish Dense images unfurled
behind which he disappeared without a word, the German remains before the Are created and takes it through
its essence, by his gesture, accompanied by his Words until the right light and the right application.
His presentation is cool, and consider philosophical terms, and one never forgets about the figures,
the magician, who move able to share. Cervantes is great by Don Quixote; Wilhelm Meister is great
by Goethe.

In the poetry of the Russian poet finite substance and presentation in an indissoluble Compound
entered. The Creator himself is here at a little unreal, like the
power of nature, which instructs a power his bed.

This novel is Homeric character.

The people in it are so strong individually and also driven so much by the fate of their temperament,
that one has the illusion that they must, even in isolation of social environment and action, but
to those Experiences and experiences go, which they in poetry by the will of the poet . Come
Moral description, national particularity, human significance, artistic Peace, simplicity and size,
all combine to form the clearest effect. The dialogue has not motor purposes, not even philosophical,
or tendentious, but merely characterizing.

YOUNG:

"Substance and presentation have entered into an indissoluble union,"
I would say thou rather say: Fabric and artists.

But what is the substance? When the substance is "necessary to live in? When he gets the repudiation
of one of nature itself created? You probably have the one to do it, the second invention, the
third company in history. This needs a veritable fable that weaves out its structure as from
a dream that the movement and mood of life and yet the gatheredness the seal. The important
thing is therefore not the nature of the substance itself, but the intensity of the vision
he created and the not based on an image needs, but often, the mist of the primeval world
the same ball, fire and may have hidden in the vegetation.

OLD MAN:

Without doubt.

The power of vision in the poet determines the strength of the work,
its duration and Unforgettable, but his harmony.

Everything else has any more things with inspiratory to do, but is
subject to the laws of development.

Where the vision leaves off, the mental work, the realm of taste, of discernment, choice. This
is also the limit between the poet and writer. The poet and his agents to behave each other
as the tree to its leaves, the materials of the writer but the same arbitrarily selected, humble
or luxurious furniture of a room. There is any lack the downside of his preference, even here,
any preference to a single defect . Returns indicate There is a living organism, whether strong
or sickly, here is a Machinery, or completely botched in its way.

YOUNG:

So we must actually experience the poet's materials, the writer to invent.

OLD MAN:

This can not be kept apart. Since we must first determine what it means to live. It would be
considered quite poor, if you wanted to see an external action would
then It would be bad for those appointed to the chance or social status
or personal characteristic from the large gear keeps.

That would be: only the person who committed a murder, can reveal
the soul of a murderer, and the woman as a world in itself would be
a poet locked forever thing.

I do not deny that a certain amount of general Life experience is necessary, but the one who does not
inwardly the suffering of the world and its Creatures lived, which it is little use if he fills
his days with adventures, if him this way, the strangest and most
profound aspects of human nature to be revealed.

That's just the special nature of the poet, that in it were, the
experience of all others accumulate and reach a high consciousness,
it is as if God him the hints and key words were, from which he summarized
for the tissue to a second scarcest of consistency World forms.

It is He who dwells in the center of things, he is the living conscience
of nations is, he does not live in the present, no, it is also all
the past Present.

And now the stuff.

YOUNG:

I believe that it is irrelevant whether the story of a tailor, he or world conqueror selected.
And the environment can only be a means to develop characters and stories to motivate.

OLD MAN:

Very true.

YOUNG:

And yet we have spoken of a need for existence of the substance.

OLD MAN:

It has been said often enough that the poet out of an invincible inner drive make it. Often
in conflict with the external circumstances, often, almost always at war with itself themselves why
it is a hackneyed phrase, to speak of the happiness of creation. There is only one despair
of creation and a very brief rush of happiness Created having. And then the poet must learn to
hate his work, that he recognized his infirmity able, and the more he will hate his work,
the deeper he will love the arts. It is clear that what wins in such resistors existence and form,
inner life opportunity and must have necessity, at least for the
Creator.

The question is whether and to what Extent the work to other people
talk, how many lives it circles its existence affect how much other
beings, it is also necessary.

It now depends on his material from.

I want to say a substance is the greater and more generally valid,
the more myth within himself, that is, the deeper it in the mysterious,
unconscious, religious, contemporary fantasy a people and thus the
root of the human race.

The poet is indeed the mouth of the silent ones. The larger is a poet, the more silent one
speak of him. Not he chooses his material, but the material it chooses. He hits him, like lightning,
he shrugs at him. Therefore, you can no more talk of inventing of experience as a substance,
in the highest sense namely. Poets who tell their stories, we realize, are always in danger,
these experiences to appreciate, if not a great typical fate behind them. The Vision is all. You
can now have a thousand times to glorify the subject treated so and
to increase that he is the unprecedented event.

The more you through your tight little and in any case modest fate
up into space, human, mythical hinausspürst and live, the less you
need to "actually do," the more free space for the art you win.

YOUNG:

Earlier esthetician what you call the myth have called idea.

OLD MAN:

Call it what you want.

There is always talk of it, that art has no trends, no usefulness would pursue goals. But shall
be in a higher sense but with every other work of art proved to be
something, if it is not to succumb to the curse of playfulness.

Certainly must It will be produced for its own sake.

But it must, as a living creature, not exist for its own sake. Furthermore, we can hardly get into
our discussion. Here already is the border of dream and reverie.

Five years later

OLD MAN:

That brings us together by chance on a trip!

YOUNG:

You may think you hast me during all this time, studiously avoided.

OLD MAN:

How could I dare me! You have become a famous man, I fall more and more back into the darkness.

YOUNG:

I
hope I have this so-called glory not your good opinion stolen.

OLD MAN:

That would be the case only when he seduced up to self-sufficiency. Such people are as Corpses in
the middle of their works, and their works are sick, children born, destined to early death.

YOUNG:

Above all, there are two kinds of glory. One goes from the temporal, contingent, Momentary,
from threatening our actions, and may the real as the false Work the same way to be part and has little
to do with the other fame, by our whole being is due to ties in the context of our works. That's
like the brief success of wits or good Plauderers in a social circle,
as this the deep, silent, slow work of a priest or a philanthropist,
is that other produced results and often to our own surprise, that
radiates from our Interior, from our personality and can occur in
any case only after the death or the termination of our life's work,
to the applause of those have any newspaper writer be concerned, that
no other court has its own as the heart.

OLD MAN:

I am glad that you think so. But have you ever lived in this sense, sealed? You mean I had been absent
from you in all the years with intention, your feelings are deceiving you not quite. Frankly,
I must confess that your success has worried me. He was too fast, too loudly, I went out too little
about the matter and could not get enough on the arts appointed. I wanted to wait and I waited for your next
book. I was disappointed. Not as if you were you is untrue, but you were uneasy in yourself The
Vision your imagination was not pure, but you saw it were, the curious
faces your readers, your friends. You tried to satisfy them and not
yourself

YOUNG:

True, true. But I've paid. I've paid, as I learned
to despise. I've paid, by my soul cried out for myself ever more painfully.
Do you know this mysterious State of restless each stay makes every
bitter thought? It's like after wanted to stay home and become timid
horses stormed to a remote desert countries. What a mysterious thing
it but that lives inside the chest. It has a voice the craziest market
noise drowned out, and you are then in solitude, it is silent unexpectedly,
as if to take revenge for the fact that you did not obey him earlier.
Always attentive, more silent you have to be to lose the vote, his
wife and children and money Well you must hold and if they do not
want to.

OLD MAN:

So much insight in so many insane!

YOUNG:

What
better way to gain insight without having to have been wrong? Do you
remember our conversation from then on the nature and laws of the
narrative? I have a lot, I often thought about it. I have it in the
crucial points to a no longer produced clouding clarity. And yet,
as soon as I only one of these laws, and if it was the lapidarste,
on my work wanted to use, it dissolved into nothing but haze. It's
been described as the paragraphs Collections justice to the living
world of men. Viewed in isolation: true, fair and clear. At the event,
to the act, used the moment: meaningless, absurd, dead He had brought
Dick to what Charlotte would call "a realizing sense." He could afford a bit of tolerance.
Dick got up and flung out of the room, finding Raven, he told himself, in one of his extravagant
moods. Nine times out of ten the moods meant nothing. On the other hand, in this present erratic
state of a changed Raven, they might mean anything. For himself, he was impatient, with the
headlong rush of young love. Nan was coming. She was on the way. Would she be the same, distant
with her cool kindliness, her old lovely self to Raven only, or might she be changed into the
Nan who kissed him that one moment of his need? He snatched his hat and tore out of the house,
and Raven, glancing up from his novel, saw him striding down the path and thought approvingly
he was a wise young dog to walk off some of his headiness before Nan came. As for him, he would
doze a little over his foolish book, as became a man along in years. That was what Charlotte
would say, "along in years." Was it so? The
more one gives meaning to the affirmative vote, the more dangerous would one day Voting can be
an enemy. I am also of the success or not so perfect secure. The majority of those who vote will
vote yes, I have no doubt whether it would succeed but not the opposition, a very large majority
of the votes of abstention to win, and I'm still not totally reassured, and the impression of such
Abstention would not only in France but also abroad, be a very worrying need. "

Mr. Ollivier, who had been moving restlessly back and forth, wanted
to come up with a comment.

The Count Daru rose slightly with a polite but firm hand turn against
him and continued.

"If I am of the opinion out of consideration to the empire itself and to the dynasty, again that a
plebiscite only in moments of public danger or tremendous national Efforts must be made, encouraged
me in this view even more consideration the free and constitutional development of public life,
that our security Task. If it is accepted as a principle of public law that the government at
any moment and without certain mandatory and the Constitution provided for reasons to can turn
to the people, so any constitutional lives in an inability to because the government has in hand,
each conflict with the legislative bodies put through a plebiscite, the whole constitutional
question in life. That Your Majesty never will have such a thought, "he said, bowing to the
emperor, - "I am convinced, must not, however, in judging public law principles think you
not the person but to the cause and to the completely objectively question. So for me, both the
consideration speaks to the stability and the sanctity of monarchical Of state and the dynasty than that
of the true freedom of public life against a repeat of the plebiscite. "

"So you would, my dear Count," said the emperor, he looked for a moment volatile and then again in the
consideration of the paper before him now clearly discernible Eagle wing sank, "So you would
an appeal to the people and not give your vote do?

"I have my reasons in principle moderate its opposition to the plebiscite," replied the Count
"I am also convinced, however, that the absolutely rigid adherence to the principles practically
can not be ruled. And since your majesty and most of my colleagues Referendum it appropriate,
so I would not necessarily oppose the same. "

The emperor moved his lines on and on. A second eagle wings began
on the side the first show. That was their childish form of vow, hers and Dick's.

"I hope so," said Raven doubtfully. "I represented it to him as being necessary."

"I'll represent it, too," said Nan. "Now, Rookie, I'm going over there, first thing to-morrow
morning. I'm going to see Tenney."

"The deuce you are! I'm afraid that won't do."

"Nothing else will," said Nan. "Tenney's got to give his consent. We can't do any kidnaping
business. That's no good."

She said it with the peremptory implication of extinguishing middle-aged scruples, and Raven
also felt it to be "no good."

"Very well," said he. "You know best. I'll go with you."

"Oh, no, you won't. There are too many men-folks in it now. I'm going alone. Now, come back
and talk to the family. Oh, I hope and pray Dick'll be good! Doesn't he look dear to-night,
all red, as if he'd been logging? Has he? Have you? You look just the same. Oh, I do love Dick!
I wish he'd let me, the way I want to."

Meantime Charlotte had come in, and Nan went to her and put her hands on her shoulders and
rubbed cheeks, as she used to do with Raven.

"Come on," she said to him. "Time!"

So they went into the library and conversed, with every conventional flourish, until Amelia
set the pace of retirement by a ladylike yawn. But she had a word to say before parting, reserved
perhaps to the last because she found herself doubtful of Raven's response. If she had to be
snubbed she could simply keep on her way out of the room.

"John," said she, at the door, with the effect of a sudden thought, "how about Anne's estate?
Are they getting it settled?"

Raven hesitated a perceptible instant. He somehow had an idea the estate was an affair of his,
not to say Nan's.

"I suppose so," he answered, frowning. "Whitney's likely to do the right thing."

Amelia was never especially astute in the manner of danger signals.

"I suppose," she said, "you've made up your mind what to invest in. Or are the things in pretty
good shape? Can you leave them as they are?"

Dick was standing by the hearth, wishing hard for a word with Nan. She had smiled at him once
or twice, so peaceably! The next step might be to a truce and then everlasting bliss. Now,
suddenly aware of his mother, he ungratefully kicked the fire that was making him such pretty
dreams, went to her, took her by the arm and proceeded with her across the hall.

"You talk too much," said Dick, when he had her inside her room. "Don't you know better than
to drag in Miss Anne? He's touchy as the devil."

"Then he must get over it," said Amelia, in her best manner of the intelligent mentor. "Of
course, she was a great loss to him."

"Don't you believe it," said Dick conclusively. "She had her paw on him. What the deuce is
it in him that makes all the women want to dry-nurse him and build him up and make him over?" 

"If I have offended him," she whispered - "he is sensitive and easily hurt. But no, no, "she said
then," I remember every word that I said to him, and all my words spoke more clearly perhaps
than I ought to have done, my love to him out. No, "she cried," he can not doubt that my heart
belongs to him. It is only his pride, his hard unyielding sense that holds him back from me.
And he has, "she continue, her eyes gently and peeped softly to himself, "he is not right,
so proud to be, he is poor and the power of money rules the world, and yet he feels his own
value. And so now, "she cried passionately," why I love him - but should I lose it because
my father rich and he is poor, I may him so maybe forever let go of me - it sounded like a farewell
in his last words. Is he afraid me to see again, to not even be unfaithful? I must see him, "she
said, jumping up, "I must see him, I must draw near to him hand in hand in front of my father
and, according to the Feeling of my heart confess. Oh, "she said, straightening himself up," the Baron
of Rantow and against all the overlords, the swarm around me that believe that they supported
must reach out to their big names and their position, only the hand to the daughter commerzienrath
the rich to acquire a large fortune, - against them I feel the Pride of a queen in me, it excites
me to show them that I later eighth, as they All. But opposite him, him, Love me, this noble,
rich and loyal hearts to I will be humble. He is to see, as I all I can offer him nothing for
eighth and I am happy that he found me worthy of his love, I want him to ask me not to leave
him over I will have no pride, and I will make him give up even his pride. "

She opened a delicate case of red leather, took a small gold-rimmed sheet Stationery from the
same and wrote hastily, while her cheeks with dark purple-colored, few lines.

Then she read them by.

"There is something unusual, what I do here," she said, "would any
other man towards it be a self-humiliation - but he will understand
me, he will feel that he was no has more right to follow his proud
self-will, if I so bow before him when I was standing in his hands,
give up.

"

She quickly folded the letter written him locked together in an envelope and put the address
on the same.

"There will be light," she said, "I will carry the letter to the post, no one will something about
it and he will certainly follow my request.

"

The anxious restlessness disappeared from her face, she slowly undressed, to the thoughts the
beloved accompanied them in their slumbers and designed to be beautiful and lovely Dreams of future
happiness.

       

* * * * *

The lieutenant box of books had been with his statement with Miss home a lot to Cohn even fought.
He was a pretty lonely youth in the quiet home of his father during his stay in Berlin for the
first time in the greater districts occurred in the world, and love for the young girl had with
overwhelming force to be deeply sensitive, in himself met retired heart, a whole new life had
opened him and his whole being was permeated by the deep emotion that filled him. The rigid concepts
of male honor and dignity which placed him in the education of his father, fought against this
love of, and his blood was outraged at the thought that one of his candidature for the daughter
of the rich could commerzienrath inferior material motives, his pride rebelled on if he thought
the possibility that he will be rejected cold and haughty could, and even if he would be able
to gain his mistress, he shuddered at the thought back to justify
his position in life on the fortune of his wife.

He was carried away by his feelings for a while, he was a young girl
come closer and closer, but at last he had with the firm resolve from
all illusions to separate themselves do speak out against them to
also take leave of her forever.

Then she had him in a wonderful openness open her heart, he had with delight, but almost also
viewed with dismay that his feelings were so strong and so warm replied.

For a moment the splendor of this happiness had blinded him, but on other days was the pride back
in it became powerful, he had taken the firm decision, alone through
life to go and establish only his own strength his future, and he
wanted consist of the struggle victorious, Miss Cohn home may not
see again as long as his command Berlin still lasted.

Often, he moved back to the park to at least catch a glimpse of the distant loved trains, were
dug so deep into his heart, but with iron will he held back and carefully avoided all the circles
in which he would have Miss Cohnheim may encounter. Only late in the evening he went out and looked
out of the deep darkness of the lighted windows, by which he could sometimes see the outlines of the
slender figure of his mistress. He stood there leaning against a tree, lost in painful reverie,
but his decision remained firm on the day he entered not the area
in which he so often his painful Sigh sent to the night sky.

He was proud of his restraint nor encouraged by the remarks, which his father had given him about
his conversation with the Baron of Rantow. The old gentleman had been very angry with his son
expressed concerns that his childhood friend, an old gentleman of the best Family had become
associated with industrial operations involving the commerzienrath, and that he, as it seemed,
even dropping the idea to be impossible, the two shared by the Companies
still continue to be replicated fortune by a marriage of his son with
the lady Cohnheim to connect with each other.

With a bitter smile sadly the young man had been listening to the reluctant words of his father.

The
old gentleman had this smile is a consent to be so displeased judge
of the modern practice of his friend found and believed by his son
the shoulder and knocked loudly proclaimed:

"We would not do such
a thing, the books may not such a noble field and not so wealthy his
family, as the Barons of Rantow, but with the Börsenspeculanten we
would not our business, nor mix our blood.

"

Indescribable feelings of the young man had the heart at these words
of his father constricted, without answering, he got up and had left
the room.

A few days later he had the old gentleman after a visit to the Lord of the highest Rantow Indignation
informed that not only the business between the Baron and the commerzienrath adopted for the
industrial exploitation of Rantow'schen inheritances was, but that he now even the connection
of the young Rantow with Miss Cohn to his home deep pain looked upon as certain.

Was always fixed for such communications, the decision of the young man has become the young Girls
not to see again, all the stirrings of his heart belonged and which were still of it was separated
by all the obstacles and barriers which the relations between the world erect two human hearts
are capable.

Always eager he had absorbed in his studies - he was looking through the work of the pain to defeat
the so-consuming permeated his whole being, he sought with all the force of his Spirit, with
all the force of his will by an incessant activity for a large and effective Carrière prepare.
He wanted by the ambition of love kill, because a large and powerful, dominant emotion Everything
he needed for his inner Life, the monotony was not enough for the
indifferent one useless vegetate.

On the day had taken on the eve of Miss Anna in the stillness of the night decision to supply
all the doubts of her heart a decisive solution was the young officer to noon, returned from
the training school and entered the room of his father, in which the old servant of the lieutenant
colonel, who for years had been his boy and stayed after the departure of his master in his own
private service, so even the modest Diner served up, which the old
man for himself and his son from a nearby small Hotel could get.

"You look pale," said the old gentleman, by his son to ensure full participation looked at her,
"I fear that you work too much. It is very good to something very Efficient learn, but one must
therefore be no head hanging. You go from not more, you're almost any Evening at home, you do not
visit more companies - you not allowed to exert too much. In my day, "he said, stroking his
mustache," we were young officers of different if there were no companies, so at least we went out
into the countryside and made happy wanderings through forest and
field.

At that time we would not consider it the duty of the soldiers required to sit behind the books
and read and work as a student. "

"Be calm, dear father," the lieutenant said, with a slightly forced smile, "I will certainly not work on
my strength, and if I am much stayed at home, it is only the fact
that I find no pleasure in the extensive local social life.

If I again only in my garrison will be among my comrades, under the old customary conditions,
it will be different. "

"Well," said the lieutenant colonel, following his earlier thought, "kick it yes now quite different
tasks of an officer approached. Today is a much more complicated Tactik, and one day the war must lead
very well with his head than with his arm. That is all quite well, but the head hanging about the
soldier may not be yet. - That the way you Social life here is not like in Berlin, "he continued,"
I understand, and that you happier are in the humble your little garrison - indeed, "he said
sadly sigh, "Your old father will be here again to be all alone,
but that's the lot age - your marching into the world, we go out from
it.

As can indeed our paths do not converge. "

He sat down to dinner, his son took his seat opposite, and the old servant served up in Military posture
somewhat pale and thin broth.

The Colonel Lieutenant filled the wine glasses for himself and his son from an already fractured
Bottle of St. Julien and met with the lieutenant, as he always used
to do, on the future field marshal's baton at.

While the young man listened in silence to his father, who from ancient times and told many many
times repeated story again in detail recited, heard a strong ring
at the external entrance door of small, simple apartment.

The old servant went out and returned after a few moments with a dainty Letter in his hand back.

"A
letter to the Lord Lieutenant," he said, as he in their official position, the billet the young
man handed.

He took it with an air of indifference, opened it, and let your eyes
glide over the content.

A dark blush passed over his face, with a fixed astonishment, almost with an expression of
sudden terror, he read the few lines, his hand slowly sank with the
paper on his Lap down, while his eyes were continually motionless
on the words he had just read.

"My God," the old Colonel said anxiously, "what is it? But you have no evil Message received
- but not a matter of honor "?

With tremendous effort the young man tried to regain his composure.

"It's nothing," he said, folding up the paper and sticking it in his
uniform by he produced with some difficulty the words, "a friend invites
me with him to spend the night.

"

"But you're so scared," said the old gentleman inquiringly, "You have got quite red; You're trembling.
"

"I have not eaten all morning about nothing," said the lieutenant,
"the warm soup and the glass of red wine have echauffirt me a little
- it is really nothing, absolutely nothing Unpleasant.

There was a slight dizziness, which is already over. "-

The old man looked at him a little disappointed.

The lieutenant, who had previously sat in silence, began with a somewhat violent enter into laughter at
his stories, to stimulate memories, of which he knew that she loved
his father would be so soon forgot about this small incident and satisfied
in most Mood, a second bottle sent for St. Julien, very happy about
it, that his Son as alive as long did not take part in its discussions.

As

the dinner ended, and the simple cover was cleared by the servant, continued the Lieutenant
Colonel in a large old-fashioned arm-chair, chatted a little longer, slower and slower and slower
speaking to his son, a large silk handkerchief over his head covered and fell into his usual afternoon
nap, which was lower than usual today and in it friendly but confused
images, the future of his son was, how it works with Military Honors
and decorations adorned the names of those box of books brought to
higher honors.

When the old man was asleep, pulled the lieutenant returned to his small room, sat down before his big
table of white wood, covered with books, plans and maps was pulled
the small ticket out of his uniform, and plunged again into the reading
of of it.

"My God," he said at last, deeply moving, almost sorrowful tone, "my decision was so tight
I thought all overcome, I believe with the past and all its sweet enticements to have been completed
- since penetrates this message to me, all my decisions back upsets, which sunk me anew in combat,
in anxiety and doubt -

"My dear friend."

He read, his eyes fixed on the paper.

"After our last conversation, I think me and you to be guilty, full clarity to create between
us. The conditions necessary to make a declaration between us. I must talk and see - you go this
afternoon fünf clock near our house on the animal garden promenade up and down. I'll meet you
there and nothing is us to prevent us in broad daylight and in front
of all the world to oppose each other.

"

"A word or part thereof is streaked," he said, thoughtfully, the paper
constantly contemplating - "An easy A. is the signature. - I have
never seen Anna's handwriting, "said He continued, "but there is no
doubt that this letter must come from her.

What they can tell me do? According to the communications of my father's their connection with
the young Rantow should be as be settled as well - after her last words, indeed, "he said, his head
in his hand supportive, "I had to believe that her heart inclined
to me.

She wanted the victim of my love not accept, they gave me hope, - oh, so sweet hope, which I
with the more serious I ripped out my heart overcome.
Would it be possible "- a glimmer of happiness and joy lit up his
face in an involuntary Movement, he lifted the paper up, his lips
pressed to the writing, then he jumped and went into violent agitation
in his room and down. -

"Be it what it wants," he said, "it would
be unchivalrous and cowardly, in the invitation of a lady not to follow,
a lady, I said that I love her - and what this confession so kind
and friendly, recorded as they had done it. -

But, "he then continued
with gloomy expressions and muffled voice," if she wants to tell me
that all was over when she wants to end the dream of which I told
her hastily and carelessly maybe talk about? About two or three of the boys over there, you know. They were the ones I knew rather
well. And Old Crow! up here, Rookie, alone with you, I have that sense of Old Crow's being
alive, very much alive. Is it the thoughts he's left behind him, written on the air, or is
it really Old Crow?"

"The air's been changed a good many times since he was here," said Raven lightly. It was not
good for little girls to be wrestling forever with things formless and dark.

"Oh," said she, "but there's something left. Our minds make pictures. They don't get rubbed
out. Why, I can see old Billy Jones sitting here and Old Crow bandaging his legs, and your
mother and little Jack coming up to bring things in a basket. You can say that's because Old
Crow told it so vividly I can't get it out of my mind. But that isn't all. Things don't get
rubbed out."

XXXV

The next day Raven saw Tenney driving by, probably to the street where all the neighbors went
for supplies. Up to this time Jerry had offered, whenever he was going, to do Tira's "arrants,"
and Tenney had even allowed him to bring home grain. Raven at once summoned Nan. It was their
chance. Tira must be taken by storm. Let her leave the house as it was and run away. Nan hurried
on her things, and they went up the road.

"There she is," said Nan, "at the window."

Raven, too, saw her white face for the moment before it disappeared. She was coming, he thought,
making haste to let them in. He knocked and waited. No one came. He knocked again, sharply,
with his stick, and then, in the after silence, held his breath to listen. It seemed to him
he had never heard a house so still. That was the way his mind absurdly put it: actively, ominously
still.

"She was at the window," said Nan, in a tone that sounded to him as apprehensive as the beating
of his own heart. "I saw her."

He knocked again and, after another interval, the window opened above their heads and Tira
leaned over the sill.

"You go away," she said quietly, yet with a thrilling apprehension. "I can't let you in."

They stepped back from the door and looked up at her. She seemed even thinner than when Nan
had seen her last, and to Raven all the sorrows of woman were darkling in the anguish of her
eyes. He spoke quietly, making his voice reassuring to her.

"Why can't you? Have you been told not to?"

"No," said Tira, quick, he thought, to shield her persecutor, "nobody's said a word. But they've
gone off, an' you can't be certain when they'll be back."

"Hasn't he gone to the street?" Raven asked her, and now her voice, in its imploring hurry,
could not urge him earnestly enough.

"He said he was goin'. You can't tell. He may turn round an' come back. An' I wouldn't have
you here--either o' you--for anything in this world."

But though she said "either of you," her eyes were on Raven, beseeching him to go. He did not
answer that. In a few words he set forth their plan. She was to take the child and come. It
was to be now. But she would hardly listen.

"No," she called, in any pause between his words. "No! no! no!"

"Don't you want to save the child?" Raven asked her sternly. "Have you forgotten what may happen
to him?"

She had her answer ready.

"It's his," she said. "He spoke the truth, though it wa'n't as he mean it. But the baby's his,
an' baby as he is, an' as he is, he's got to fight it out along o' me. You go now, an' don't
you come a-nigh me ag'in. An' if you stay here knockin' at my door, I'll scream so's I sha'n't
hear you."

She withdrew her head from the window, but instantly looked out again.

"God Almighty bless you!" she said. "But you go! you go!" I know that The
Duke of Cambridge will hold the next Agnat very much interested in this matter, and it would
be desirable, in fact, if it could be arranged in a satisfactory manner. "

"No one wants the more lively than I," cried Count Bismarck, "we have the interest of safety
Prussia, the king must take his land, but both my most gracious Lord as I even want to doubt
the most pressing that the old, very famous and noble Guelph home in his Hanoverian line for
the future secured a large and dignified existence remain. But, "he continued," if the king
dismisses his legion simply because he does not can pay without quitting his other agitations,
no peace with us make, so we can give him but certainly not the means in the hands. I must confess
me that this legion appeared less worthy of attention than other agitations of the King, which
are beyond the public more and for what I do, "he said with a decided can provide emphasis, "never
the resources available. Will is the king of the need add the conditions, he wants to make peace with
us, he will certainly ensure the ready Concessions available, and when the Duke of Cambridge is
interested for it, he will King George and his whole house to make sure the best service, if
it has its influence applies to him, to have a definite and sincere peace. "

"I will," said Lord Loftus, "if it gives me the opportunity to try this to act sense - I think
that the Duke of Cambridge is to offer you a hand to but whether with success, I doubt in the
character of the king. In any case, all my activity in this matter purely private, resulting
from the natural interest that I have for my cousin His Highness the Queen, as a representative
the British Government I have with the whole affair not to do the least. "

He replied with a somewhat stiff bow to the pressure of the hand of Count Bismarck, who accompanied
him to the door down, and left the Cabinet.

sat in the large vestibule in an armchair, the frail, thin figure of Count Benedetti with the pale,
finely chiseled face, his features, despite the cunning intelligence,
which in them lay, but could never identify a specific phrase.

The count rose and greeted the British colleagues.

"Well," he said, "You have your discutirt Entwaffnungstheorie about
which we spoke yesterday, and of which I am convinced that they are
in Paris, the most willing concession will?

"

"I've talked about it," said Lord Loftus.

"And?" Said Benedetti.

"Any discussion about it is most decidedly rejected, you will regret it in London very much,
although the reasons are not without justification. "

In the cold clear eyes Benedetti's appeared a slight tinge of satisfaction, he suggested, however,
immediately looking down and said with a calm, almost expressionless
tone:

"If the world is worried because of the military armaments
in France and Germany, so now you at least know that we are not, refuse
to remove it this unrest contribute, which by the way, "he added,"
In my view, without notice is.

"

The valet of Count Bismarck approached the French ambassador with the message that the Minister-President
was ready to receive him.

Graf Benedetti said goodbye to Lord Loftus, and entered the Cabinet.

"Well," said Count Bismarck, after he had greeted him with open warmth, "it seems that in Europe
in the peace does not want to believe. You want the world to arms take out of the hands and place
them in any large arsenal, so yes not only Abuse happens to it. Just my Lord has again spoken
of Entwaffnungsideen Loftus, which relate very much to us - I realize this is not, in fact,
"he added serious go, "because we believe that two great powers can only live in peace side by side
may, if they both do not have the power to wage war?

I have in my opinion more confidence in the maintenance of general peace, when all powers are strong
and vigorous; if you only have a sincere desire to live on good terms with each other. I do not know
how to think with you about the possibility of a reduction of the army, we this is impossible,
and I also believe it is without restriction to our peaceful intentions believe our army. "

"I share your view entirely sure," said Count Benedetti by the Minister-President over at the
desk took place, and am far from a strong military force two wise States ruled a danger to behold
for peace. However, "continued He continued, "could not the idea of ​​a partial disarmament but
perhaps the attention be quite unworthy when going through such a measure of public opinion and
the other powers inspire new confidence in the stability of European
peace and order can.

From this point of view, is how I must assume that the emperor is not averse to a Reduction of the military
forces to consider, and in addition a significant Relief of the people is concerned not for
the internal position of the governments, ancillary. "

"This would be with us regardless of any significance," said Count Bismarck, "our military man-Constitution
is adherent to the people, and no one in the nation requires a relief to all the Shoulders
equal-divided Military duties. "

Graf Benedetti saw a moment to the ground, then struck the eye with an almost naive Openness
to the Prussian Minister-President, and said:

"I am of course not in a position to judge the internal affairs to you in such detail, how to do this
are able, as I only as a foreigner into them, look - but I am still following your public life to have
noticed with great interest and believe that in the parties of their parliaments, the question
of the military burden does not treat all the same appear to be. After the number of teams and
after the financial means of According to the Constitution Militairetat a fixed period of five
years, which in the next Year comes to an end, after the votes of the press, "he continued," and
from what I here and I have since heard about the mood of the deputies, the parliament appears if,
at the next War years, the budget is presented to be very inclined to adopt substantial reduction,
which would come a sense of a partial disarmament of the same. If I am in the not judging the situation
here mistaken, "he continued, while Count Bismarck listened, and from time to time the finger tips
struck at each other - "you need to the to obtain correct balance between the Government and
Parliament of Agreement with all the nuances of the moderate conservative and liberal parties. Would
it not perhaps because be a good and welcome expedient, the considerations
of the internal conditions and to unite those on the foreign relations
of a diplomatic convention Reduction based army?

They would undertake the European powers, England at the head, reassure public opinion and
perhaps an embarrassing miss, which after all could arise if next
year your significant reduction of the Parliament Militairbudgets
should decide.

"

"This embarrassment," said Count Bismarck can not enter, "and regard them to Can avoid practicing
on my decisions have no influence. "

"So you think," said the Count Benedetti, "the consent of Parliament for the majority Militairbudget
to the next year are completely safe? Excuse me, "he added, "I about your internal affairs
speak with you, but you know how much I for me to interest them, and you gave me earlier allows
quite a few times by me to talk with you about these relationships are wrong. "

"Our internal affairs," said Graf Bismarck, bowing his head like a lie, " so open here, and
it is always pleasing to me and can only lead to ever greater clarification of my own view, serve,
entertain me with you about the same. So they asked, " he continued, "if I'm the consent of
Parliament on the recent Militairbudget next Years was safe? Then I can only answer: I do not know,
for parliamentary Majorities can be things that can not be calculated in advance, but may be
that as it wanted a fix, as you indicated before the same can for me in this direction never
even arise. If you have studied our Constitution precisely, "he said with a barely perceptible
hint of irony in his voice, "as I assume for your comments you will have seen that the Article
60 - after the fixing of the peace force in the army to 31 December 1871 - further determined
that for the future Effectivstärke should be determined by the federal legislation. If so, which
I assume does not want but neither can declare to be impossible, the North German Reichstag in the next Over,
presented by the allied governments Militairbudget not accept, such is A new law did not come into
existence, and of course the date is then passed Law so long, until sooner or later the body
of his to be set between the elected representatives and the governments of an agreement is reached.
So you see that I pick up my Militairbudget can not get in trouble, and that if those, "he
added with a sharp emphasis added by his face suddenly assumed a very serious, almost stern expression,
"Who want to find themselves forced out of Germany, perhaps, a reduction to do the weapons
power, in defense of Prussia and the North German Confederation necessary is to go to certain parliamentary
reluctance to grant the Militairetats believe based on may - that
in such conditions their account - without the federal Constitution
and have made it without me.

"

Graf Benedetti bowed.

"It is gratifying," he said, "your views heard expressed so precise and clear. The whole subject,
"he added with a light tone," is really no issue between us, France
and Prussia can look at their mutual strength without any suspicion,
it would show only one concession was that we had in common the other
powers can - "

"What for their part," was a Count Bismarck, also continue to upgrade constantly and although
on a much larger scale than we, as a look at Austria and Italy shows. I think it is better that
one not discussed and for all the whole question of armaments to have peace and much to rely
on the good faith and the trust that governments receive support each other. You can send
me, "he continued," certainly the accusation not do that I leave it to lack this confidence,
and that I, if any thing occurs, which confuse the good relations to some one or the other
direction able, would not immediately open by pronouncing the opportunity
to educate and to eliminate the misunderstandings give up.

"

A slight expression of increasing attention has been noticeable in the eyes of the ambassador.

"I
am delighted," he said, "that this relationship of mutual openness and honesty between us. Precisely
because it is so often have been possible, some cloud to dispel what so good and satisfactory
relations between the two governments could have been dull.

At present, "he said with a slight smile," are indeed those clouds after any direction out there
and - "

"All they never disappear," was a Count Bismarck, "for always and
always come back from one side or the other communications, which
in anxious and suspicious Natures, which I do not belong, "he said,
bowing," cause concern and worry could.

"

Benedetti looked at him surprised and puzzled.

"Some time ago," Count Bismarck said in a calm and almost indifferent
tone, had "

I communicated to you, Lord of Usedom have communicated to us several circumstances that almost
had to believe that secret negotiations between France and Italy, which Austria was also implicated,
were taking place. "

"I have taken the opportunity at that time," Graf Benedetti said quickly, "in Paris inquiries withdrawn
and given you the assurance that the source from which Mr. von Usedom
those communications has drawn, would not have been a reliable - "

"Lord of Usedom has its source not specified," was a Count Bismarck.

"Anyway," said Count Benedetti, "he was reported incorrectly or deceived by appearances and has
led to wrong conclusions. "

"There are now," continued Count Bismarck, repeated in recent times hints come to me, that again
a very lively Negotiation between the courts of Paris, Vienna and
Florence takes place, which aims to establish a coalition, but it
seems to us that no could have all too friendly intentions.

For my part, "he continued, he Benedetti rigidly and looked out his large paper scissors with his
hand quickly and forth, "do not special value to such hints, if they did not find evidence
of specific and undeniable Facts mentioned, the reason might be, "he said with emphasis,"
because I have a Coalition fear never would, which is the national development of Germany oppose
had the intention. "

"I will immediately," Benedetti said eagerly, "to Paris and write me some information ask about
this question. But I am convinced in advance that the rumors that reached them, are now just
as then have justification, for I to know exactly the urgent desire of the Emperor, to receive
the peace of Europe and especially to cultivate friendly relations with the so with the King
William and his government. "

"I did not want interpelliren about it, my dear Ambassador," said Count Bismarck, "I came to the
matter only through our conversation and by the utterances, which Lord Loftus I have done before.
For if, "he continued," similar angle as they come to me Are should come to London, and when
such a wave with the very special Related activity brings that prevails in your Militair department,
would in this association of ideas might be to find a reason why
much of England like this wants to win, and new concrete WARRANTIES
for the preservation of European peace.

Only this one looks WARRANTIES the wrong place, but, "he continued, breaking off," I think We
have exchanged ideas on the subject and vote now essentially agree on them. Better than on the disarmament
of the peace at any rate assured be if all occasions can be avoided, which contribute to the creation
of such rumors can, as I allowed myself to mention just now. "

"Certainly," said Benedetti. "It is strange," he continued, "as from time to time always have questions
that the smooth and quiet surface of European politics . Frizz You mentioned just now the rumors
about secret negotiations between Vienna, Florence and Paris, as we have touched once to the
field of hypotheses, I may perhaps my part, noted that, as I wrote
from Paris in strict confidence, there again single Suggestions have
been heard on a plan, the Prince of Hohenzollern to the Spanish to
take the throne, a plan, over which we have already spoken, and also
earlier who, if he really exist, also likely to have some anxiety
cause.

"

Count Bismarck was the Ambassador at Large and amazed.

"I have recently," he said, "Nothing heard back from this idea, which to me, as I You have already
remarked, on the whole seemed to be a little adventurous. I today as then, the view that the
Government of Prince Leopold in Northern Spain would be very short lived and that she would expose
serious dangers and deceptions. I am firmly convinced that the king, if things should ever approach
him, the Prince certainly does not give the council would adopt the Spanish throne, even if the
Cortes there should their requests them. I also know that the father of Prince, Prince Anton completely
informs that view.

He knows, "he added with a smile," by the experience, made it to Prince Charles of Romania,
that the sovereignty be sometimes expensive may. "

The Prince Leopold, "Benedetti said in an indifferent tone thrown by a fast gaze searching the
Count Bismarck met, "would indeed by the way, even if a decision
it should offer the Cortes, the Spanish crown, never the same without
consent and permission accept the king, since the king as head of
the house with the decisions of the Prince has the final decision.

"

"This is not the case," said Count Bismarck, the Prince would at the last line in his Decisions
depend on but only by his father, and the king would refrain from certain exercise a decisive influence
to do - but he certainly will, I repeat needs to give to my conviction the prince not the council,
such a dangerous and unsafe Adventure adventurous. I think the way, hardly, "he continued,"
that as soon the election of a king of Spain will arrive and those people who where at present
the power in their hands keep up - perhaps even more than primary Serrano - will do little,
by the final Choice of a king to the current state in which they are the masters of the country,
a End to make. The whole thing I am convinced no practical importance. It has even earlier, "he
added in a lightweight, continued indifferent tone," the name of the Prince Frederick Charles
with the Spanish crown in connection helped make it happen maybe this prince, of such a gallant
officer and a more energetic nature, is still more capable of this of adventure, as it would
perhaps be the Prince Leopold. But all these things are conjectures
and yes I am quite seem to have no real existence.

"

"I have just mentioned the whole subject," Benedetti said, "because
we take up the Field of political conjectures had come, including
the previously mentioned by you Austria and Italy Negotiation heard.

"

Count Bismarck was the Ambassador of sharp and penetrating, then he bowed courteously to Approval
of the head.

"I am pleased therefore to constatiren anew," said Benedetti, rising, "That exists in our international
relations is no point which to restlessness or anxiety could give
rise, and it will be, "he added with a smile," in London to convince
well that live without disarming two great powers in peace and friendship
to each other may.

"

"The armed Germany," said Count Bismarck by Benedetti few steps to
the door driven, "No one is at least for a threat - as for those who
are his naturally wishes to oppose freedom and national Kraftentwickelung
about.

"

Benedetti bowed, shook the proffered hand of the Minister-President and walked out.

Count Bismarck a few times slowly walked in the room and down.

"There is something in the works," he said - "this English Entwaffnungsvorschlag proves that one in London,
the rest does not trust, there must be some which have hints, which concerns inspire, and renews
the mention of the candidacy of Prince Leopold, a matter which I've long since forgotten, and
their volatile and transient appearance in the last year I never did attach a serious meaning
- these communications about the secret Negotiation with Italy and Austria, which can be used
not entirely from the air - it seems that there is any one of those hidden moves in the works
again, which I am since 1866 are constantly compared. Well, "he said, the chest-expanding," they
like their secret combinations, make it this time around, nor lead to a substantial risk than
before. In Italy, you are probably not decide so easily, the only support give up, which is found in Europe.
Even the good Emperor Napoleon, who is getting older, would be less inclined with every year in the
dangerous prospects of war stay, we, once he is broken out, "he added with an expression of steely
determination added, "until the knife would have to lead. Of course, "he said reflectively,"
the weaker and will-less, he becomes, the easier it would perhaps be the military coterie, draw
him into an ill company. The weakness of old age before it could lead to the same result, which brought
in others through the audacity of youth is. Well, "he said with a calm tone," I work with
all his might to keep the peace - But if it is not possible - we are ready and at any eventuality
look forward with the quiet knowledge that we have done what is up to us to all the dangers to meet.
Sorry, sorry, "he said after a pause," I still can not get there, to see clearly and precisely
what is meant by this smooth surface of French politics brewed in the depths and be prepared
- how sad that not even anywhere to be can and that one is forced
to see through other eyes and hear with other ears.

"

The valet entered and handed a note to the Count.

"A gentleman wishes to Your Excellency to be notified urgently, he claims that Your Excellency
Listen to him would be if you read his letter, and insisted on the
same immediately to hand over.

"

Count Bismarck quickly opened the note. Amazement, he read the few lines that it contained. Then a
strange smile played around his lips and he said:

"Follow the Lord come."

"Mr. Salazar y Mazarredo, deputy in the Cortes," he said half aloud
to himself after The valet was gone again, "I have a letter from the
Marshal Prim pass?

The name is completely unknown to me, - it must be a very special case that to direct the marshal
to me without the intervention of the Spanish embassy turns. -

The
door opened with Count Bismarck was like politeness, but in measured,
cold Keeping a young, elegant man against whose regular face with
dark, black hair and black eyes the lively type of southerners wore.

The newcomer bowed low before the Minister and pulled out a sealed letter from the Pocket of
his frock coat.
"The Marshal Prim," he said in French, "do the honorable order has
bestowed, Your Excellency to present to this letter. "

Count Bismarck
took the letter, which the young man offered him was a glimpse slide
over the seal and the words and then pointed in front with his hand
on the chair his desk.

She answered with a desperate wrench; but though one of her hands reached the pocket where
the key lay, she could only twitch the fingers, and while he laughed softly he pulled the tie
of her apron and, releasing her with a little push, snatched the apron from her, rolled it
and thrust it into his pocket. She sprang at him, but he gave her another push that sent her
staggering and ran laughing to the sleigh.

"So long!" he called back at her.

She recovered herself and started after him. But the horse plunged forward and Martin was shouting
at her jovially, in what words she did not hear. She only knew, through the bewilderment of
her despair, that the tone was merciless.

She stood there a moment, looking after him, and realizing that he had forced her into a corner
from which there was no possible way out. But then another fear beat in her numbed brain. She
had not accomplished the task for which she came here. Martin and his trick must wait. That
other need was more important. There was the hut and its welcoming smoke and there Raven must
be looking for her. She started running along the snowy path, reached the door, found it unlocked
and went in.

XXXVII

Raven, as soon as he had Tira's message, went to find Nan. She was not in her room, but Charlotte,
when he finally brought up at the kitchen, told him Nan and Dick had gone to walk. Down the
road, she said. They had called to him, but he was in the barn.

"Then," said Raven, getting into his jacket, "see her the minute she comes back and send her
up to the hut."

Yes, Charlotte meant to be in the kitchen all the afternoon. She would see Nan. Raven left
the house and hurried up the hill. He found the hut in order, the fire laid as he had left
it. That was, foolishly, always a surprise. Her presence hung so inevitably about the place
that he was taken aback to find no visible sign of it. Now when she appeared it was breathlessly,
not, as he thought, from haste, but from her encounter with Martin. And she came stripped of
her reserves, the decorum of respectful observance she always kept toward him. At first glance
he was shocked by the change in her appearance and could not account for it, not knowing he
missed the familiar folds of the blue cloak about her, not seeing that her black shawl and
the knitted hood accentuated the tragic paleness of her face. She came straight to him and
he took her hands and, finding them so cold, held them in one of his and chafed them. This
she did not notice. She neither knew that they were cold nor that he was holding them.

"You must go away," she said, surprising him because he thought she had come to say she herself
was ready to go. "Where is she?" Tira asked, with a quick glance about the room, as if the
least deviation in her plan fretted her desperately. "I depended on seein' her."

"Nan?" asked Raven. "I couldn't find her. What is it, Tira?"

"She'd ha' helped me out," said Tira despairingly. "She'd ha' seen you've got to go away from
here an' go quick. Couldn't you pack up an' git off by the nine o'clock?"

"Don't be foolish," said Raven. He released her hands and drew a chair nearer the fire. "Sit
down. I haven't the least idea of going anywhere. Do you suppose I should go and leave you
in danger?"

But she did not even seem to see the chair he had indicated or the fire. She stood wringing
her hands, in a regardless way, under her shawl, and looking at him imploringly.

"I ain't in any danger," she said, "not compared to what you be. He's stopped dwellin' on that
man an' his mind is on you."

The shame of this did not move her now. Her fear had burned every reticence to ashes and her
heart looked out nakedly.

"He's got out the old gun," she went on. "I dunno's he's fired a gun sence we've been here
unless it might be at a hawk sailin' over. He says he's goin' to shoot me a pa'tridge--for
me! a pa'tridge for me to eat!--an' he looked at me when he said it, an' the look was enough.
You go. You go to-night an' put the railroad betwixt you an' me."

"Don't be foolish, Tira," said Raven again. "I've been in more dangerous places than this,
and run bigger risks than Tenney's old musket. That's all talk, what he says to you, all bluff.
I begin to think he isn't equal to anything but scaring a woman to death. But"--now he saw
his argument--"I will go. Nan and I will go to-night, but only if you go with us. Now is your
chance, Tira. Run back to the house and get the boy. Bring him here, if you like, to stay till
train time and then come."

He stretched out his hand to her and waited, his eyes on hers. Would she put her hand into
his in obedience, in fealty? She began to cry, silently yet rendingly. He saw the great breaths
rising in her, and was sick at heart to see her hand--the hand she should have laid in his--clutching
her throat to still its agony.

"I dunno," she said brokenly. "Yes, I s'pose I do know. I've got to do it. It's been pushin'
me an' pushin' me, an' now I've got to give up beat. You won't save yourself, an' somehow or
another you've got to be saved." The Union of
Utrecht, which in bloody revolution and struggles for the purpose of the most urgent needs enough to have
been hastily drafted, was never a quiet time and carefully revidirt been completed. Each of
the seven republics combined, these soft union with each other had had almost all Souverainetätsrechte
and claimed the rights of the persistently Central Government towards. Just as the federal
power did not have the resources, the provincial authorities to compel obedience on time, so this also
had not the means Municipalbehörden to compel obedience punctual. Holland contained only eighteen
cities, each of which in many respects an independent and no interference from outside tolerating
government was formed. If the authorities of these cities by the Hague received a command that
did not like them, so they either ignored completely the same, or came after him, but only
slowly and reluctantly. In some Stadträthen could, however, the will of the Prince of Orange
all; unfortunately but was the place where the British had collected the exiles, and where their ships
equipped been, were the rich and populous Amsterdam, and the magistrates of Amsterdam were against the
heads of the Federal Government and with the House of Nassau hostile Party. The naval administration
of the United Provinces was in the hands of five different Admiralty authorities, one of these authorities
was based in Amsterdam, in part, by been appointed and the municipal authority seems quite
inspired by their spirit to be.

All efforts by the Federal Government to meet Jacob's needs were the excuses the Amsterdam officials
and by the mistakes of the Supreme Bevil Skelton, who was just as envoy England had arrived in the
Hague, frustrated. Skelton was the time of the riots in English Holland was born and he had
been held, therefore, particularly suitable for the job [27]; but he was neither for this nor
qualified for any other diplomatic position. People have a good judge of character to understand,
it declared the shallowest, most volatile, passionate, talkative and arrogant man, whom it could be [28].
He took no serious steps to the refugees, as three of the expedition to Scotland equipped vessels
already expired from the Zuyder happy, All the Weapons, ammunition and Mundvorräthe were brought
on board and the passengers embarked had. Now instead of how he ought to have done, to turn to the
States-General, which close to his home held their meetings, he sent a messenger to the Magistrate
leave from Amsterdam with the request that the suspicious ships do not leave. The magistrate
answered from Amsterdam, that the input of Zuyder beyond the reach of its jurisdiction lies,
and referred him to the federal government. It was obvious that this is a mere subterfuge and that
was certainly no trouble had been made when the Amsterdam City Hall had the serious intention
would prevent Argyle on sail. Now turning Skelton to the States General. They were totally inclined
to gratify his request, and since time was short, they deviated from the procedure it otherwise in
the course of business observed habit. That very day on which the colonel turned to them was
in strict accordance with his petition, drawn up command of the Admiralty of Amsterdam been
made. This was in command but as a result of incorrect indications of Skelton's pages the position
of vessels not known exactly. It said it would be in the Texel, while There were at Vlieland.
The Admiralty of Amsterdam took the error as a pretext for nothing to do, and before he could be
corrected, the three ships had sailed. [29]

[Note 27: This is the 16th in his letters of credence March 1684/85 mentioned.]

    [Note 28: Bonrepeaux to Seignelay of 4 (14) February 1686th]
    

    [Note 29: + Avaux Neg.

    April 30 (May 10th), May 1 (11), May 5th (15) 1685 +, + Sir Patrick
    Hume's Narrative +; letter from the Admiralty of Amsterdam to
    the States-General of 20 June 1685; Skelton's Memorial to the States-General
    of 10 May 1685.]

[Argyle's departure from Holland.] The past few hours, which Argyle spent on the coast of Holland,
were hours of the biggest fear. Near him was a Dutch warship with a full position in a moment
the whole expedition would have been confounded. Also rowed a boat around his small fleet, in which
some people with telescopes were, he considered spies. However, no real step done to restrain him, and on
the afternoon of the 2nd May he went with a fair wind to sail.

The ride was happy. The sixth was one of the Orkney Islands in sight. Argyle went very unwisely
at the height of Kirkwall at anchor and allowed two of his companions, here to go to the mainland.
The bishop gave orders to arrest them. The refugees began a long and lively debate on this accident,
because to debate it lacked from the beginning by the end of the expedition never in energy
and stamina, so timid and irresolute in it Others were. Some voted for an attack on Orkney, Others
stayed for non-continuation the trip to Argyleshire. At last the Earl had some at the coast of the
island living Gentlemen arrest and then beat the bishop before the exchange of prisoners. The
bishop was no answer and the fleet set sail again after they had lost three days.

[Argyle lands in Scotland.] This delay was most dangerous. It soon became Edinburgh announced
that the squadron of the rebels had touched the Orkney Islands, and one therefore set in motion
forces quickly. When the Earl reached his province, he found that steps were taken to prevent
his landing. sent at Dunstaffnage He landed his second son, Charles, to call the Campbells to
arms. Karl, however, came back with bad news. The shepherds and fishermen were well prepared to
order Mac Callum More troops, but by the chiefs of the clans were confiscated some prisons, others
had fled, and those remaining were either with the government or wanted know nothing of a revolt
and refused to even, the son of her master head to have only himself. Dunstaffnage of the little
fleet sailed on to Campbell Town, near the southern tip of the Kintyre peninsula. Here the Earl
published a manifesto in Holland under the guidance of the Committee by a Scottish lawyer,
James Stewart, was drawn up, the spring a few months has been taken to completely different things.
In the decrees were in a language that the strong expressions of sometimes burlesque vulgarity
marginalized, many real and some imaginary complaints dealt. Among other things was indicated therein,
the last king had died of poison. For one main purpose of the expedition was the complete
suppression not only of the papacy, but also the prelacy explains which the bitter root and fruit
of the papacy was called, and all good Scots were exhorted to lend the cause of their country and
their God valiant assistance. So eager Argyle also for what he called the pure faith, was taken,
he did it do not bring half Popish, semi-pagan use in application. The mysterious Cross of
yew wood that was first ignited and then deleted in goat blood, was sent out, Campbell's call
to all of the sixteenth to the sixtieth. The Isthmus of Tarbet was intended to rendezvous. The force
that collected there was indeed small in comparison to that which would be met if the courage and the
power of the clans still unbroken would have been, but she was still commanding. It reached the
number of eighteen hundred Argyle divided his men into three regiments of Highlanders and proceeded
with the appointment of the officers.

[Argyle's quarrels with his companions.] The already begun in Holland
squabbles but had not ceased during the whole previous course of the
expedition, in Tarbet but they were more violent than ever.

The Committee was itself in the patriarchal Supremacy of the Earl get involved at the Campbells
and not even allow him to military Rank of his kinsmen to determine according to their own
discretion. While these contentious Disturber of the peace he sought to wrest his power in the
Highlands, they maintained their own correspondence with the Netherlands and exchanged letters, the nominal
general never were communicated. Hume and his allies had the overall supervision of the stores
reserved and they led this important branch of the military administration with a nonchalance
which was different from infidelity hardly could destroy the weapons, wasted the food and were
living in lavish opulence at a time where they all subjects with the example of moderation have
to go ahead.

The big question now was whether the Highlands and the Netherlands [30], the seat of war should be. The
Earl's main goal was for now, his authority over his own territory
to To fix the foreign clans, which had broken out in Perthshire Argyleshire
again and drive out its old headquarters at Inverary retake.

Then he could hope four to five thousand swords have at his disposal, and with such force would
he have been able, these wild areas against the whole power of the Kingdom to defend Scotland,
as well as an excellent basis for offensive operations have won. This seems to have been the most
sensible way to be, who was open to him. Rumbold, the excellent training school had been through
and which one, because he was English, could expect him to an impartial arbitrator between the
Scottish factions would be that, all that stood in his power to assist the Earl. Hume and Cochrane,
however, were quite intractable, their jealousy of Argyle was stronger, in fact, than the wish
that the expedition should succeed. They saw that he's between mountains and lakes formed at the
tip of a mostly members of his own tribe Army will be able to break their resistance and the
full authority of a general exercise. They whispered that the Dutch are the only ones the really
good thing close to his heart, and that Campbell's neither freedom nor for the Church of God
but only for Mac Callum More had taken up arms. Cochrane said he would go to Ayrshire, and
if he alone, should go with nothing but a pitchfork in his hand. After much reluctance, finally
agreed Argyle against his better conviction in it, that his little army was divided. He remained
with Rumbold in the Highlands and Cochrane and Hume joined at the head of the corps, which sailed
to invade the Netherlands.

Cochrane's goal was to Ayrshire, but the coast of this county was from British frigates guarded
and the adventurers had to therefore drive up the mouth of the Clyde to Greenock, the then a small,
was of a single row of straw huts existing fishing village, now but a large, thriving port,
its customs revenue, the Gesammteinkünfte which the Stuarts from the kingdom of Scotland subjected
to exceed five times. stood at Greenock a detachment of militia;
Cochrane but took food and was therefore decided to land.

Hume raised objections, but Cochrane was laid out and ordered an officer named Elphinstone
to go with twenty men in a boat to the shore. But the contentious spirit the leader had infected
all ranks. Elphinstone said he was only required to reasonably to obey orders, but this is unreasonable,
in short, he will not go. Major Fullarton, a good man, respected by all parties, but it was
a special friend of Argyle, undertook it to land with only twelve men and succeeded in spite of
the fire, from the coast was directed at him. There ensued a small battle and the militia retreated.
Cochrane marched in Greenock, is procured Mehlvorrath, but found the people were not inclined
to Insurrection.

[Note 30: namely, the Scottish. D. Transl.]

[Mood of the Scottish nation.] The public mood in Scotland was in fact not as the exiles, which
by their class at any time own blindness infatuated, they had expected. The Government was of hateful
and hated, but the malcontents were split into factions, which were disposed against each
other almost as hostile as against their rulers, and showed no particular
desire of these parties to the incident to join.

    Many spoke from the rebellion any prospect of success, and the courage
of many Other had been broken by long and cruel oppression effectively.

However, there were a class of enthusiasts who were not accustomed to the prospects of success
to consider, not the pressure of the tamed, but on the contrary, bitter to the extreme had,
but these people saw little difference between Argyle and Jacob. Her anger had risen to such a degree
that what Others have called any ardor would, in their eyes laodicäische lukewarm. weighed on
a past of Earl Spots, which they regarded as the most disgraceful apostasy. The same Highlanders, he
is now calling for the extermination of prelacy, he had a few years earlier for the defense
the same times. Were slaves, who knew nothing of religion and do not care about them, which
were ready for Synodalverfassung for episcopacy and papacy to fight, as Mac Callum More precisely,
it was pleased to command, worthy ally for the chosen people God? The held in indecent and
intolerant tone of this manifesto appeared fanatics as a cowardly and worldly concoction. have
a constitution, as it gave them Argyle and afterwards they would like a more powerful and happier
liberators gave them, they seemed no combat worthy. They demanded not only freedom of conscience
for himself, but also absolute Dominion over the conscience of others, not merely Presbyterian
doctrine, constitution and worship, but the Covenant in its extreme austerity. They were to meet
only in that all purposes, concerning whom there is a civil society, the rule of a theological System
have been sacrificed. He who believes that no form of church government a violation the charity
is worthy, who recommended that understanding and tolerance, which ranged between Jehovah and
Baal, as they put it. Who acts like the murder of Cardinal Beatoun and Archbishop Sharpe damn, fell
into the same error for which power Saul as king of Israel had been rejected. All measures,
including through which civilized and Christian people of the horrors of war were to be mitigated,
the Lord is an abomination. Pardon was allowed to be taken nor given. A frenzied Malay, one of a heap
Persecuted mad dog: these were the role models who are warriors who just self-defense to fought, should
take as a model. For the reasons by which statesmen and generals in their steps, can channel
these zealots were absolutely impervious. If a man is dared to cite such reasons, this was a sufficient
proof that he was not to belonged to the faithful. If the divine blessing was missing, it could
well crafty politician war-experienced military leaders, weapons crates from Holland or regiments
not born again Celts from the mountains of Lorn do little. Was, however, on the other side
the time the Lord really came, it was still as of old by what foolish is to make the wise men to
shame before the world and a few just as well as by many . Save The broad swords and bayonets Athol's
Claverhouse's were able to precisely such modest weapons like the slingshot of David or Gideon's
pitchers on the run are [31].

After Cochrane had recognized the impossibility of the population south of the Clyde to insurrection
to move, he returned to Argyle, who was on the island of Bute. The Earl suggested But times
before to try to attack Inverary, but he pushed again for persistent Opposition. The sailors
did it with Cochrane and Hume, the Highlanders did submit strictly the orders of their leader.
It was feared that between the two Parties would come to blows, and led the apprehension of
such a disaster the Committee to make some concessions. The castle Ealan Ghierig, at the mouth
of the hole [32] Riddan located, was chosen as the main parade ground. The military stores
were disembarked there and the wing close to the walls at a point where it passes through rocks
and shoals, which she believes a frigate could not pass protected was laid at anchor. Then
External works were raised, and a battery of some of the ships taken small Cannons ascended. The
command in the fort was transferred most unwisely Elphinstone, who
had already given evidence that he was far more inclined to deal with
his superiors to fight than to fight against the enemy.

Now for a few hours a little energy has been developed. Rumbold took the castle Ardkingglaß. The Earl
scharmützelte successfully with Athol's troops and was already in the approach of against
Inverary understood when he grows during follow-up messages from the ships and by party divisions
in committee was forced to turn back. The royal frigates were Ealan Ghierig come closer than
anyone thought possible, and the gentlemen of the Netherlands refused to most definitely, further
advance into the highlands. Argyle hastened back to Ealan Ghierig. Once there, he proposed an attack
on the frigates. His ships were Although such a company is not conclusive, but they were by a flotilla
of been great support with thirty armed Highlanders wohlbemannten Fischerböten. The Committee
did not hear anything of this plan and really frustrated the same by instigating a mutiny among
the sailors.

Now was confusion and discouragement.

The committee were Mundvorräthe been so badly managed that it lacked the troops to food. The Highlanders
deserted therefore gave the hundreds and by his misfortunes entirely pressed down the Earl by importunities
of those who have always stubbornly insisted that he in the Netherlands should move forward.

The
small army broke accordingly hurried on to the shores of Loch Long, sat at night in boats across
the entrance and landed in Dumbartonshire. Here they were given the following morning the news
that the frigates were forcibly a passage that all the ships of the Earls had been taken, and
that Elphinstone fled without striking a blow from Ghierig Ealan and was the castle was left
with all the stores of the enemy.

There was now nothing more than to any risk of penetrating into the low country. Argyle decided
a bold surprise attack on Glasgow venture.

But as soon as this decision known , was seized the same men who had pushed him up to this moment,
in the to hasten the Netherlands, a panic, they argued, made remonstrances, and because their disputes
and their ideas failed, they drafted the plan, the to seize boats to escape on his own hand
and their general and his clansmen be left without help conquer or perish. This plan failed,
however, and the cowards who had taken him, were forced to brave
the dangers of men last venture to share.

On the march through the area between Loch Long and Loch Lomond, the insurgents continuously
by detachments of militia worried. There were some skirmishes, in which the advantage on the part
of the Earl remained, but the spread before him flying squads the
news of his approach and came back soon after his crossing of the
river Leven it on a numerous corps of regular and irregular troops,
who were willing to agree with to measure it.

He was in favor of adopting a battle, so also Ayloffe. Hume, however, declared it madness to
bind with the enemy. He saw a regiment in scarlet uniform, and it could still more behind it:
such a power attack, death would be a safe in the jaws Haste. The best thing is, up to the
night to behave quietly and then the enemy can find to escape.

There ensued a fierce exchange of words, appeased only with difficulty by Rumbold's mediation
was.

It was evening, and the two hostile armies encamped at no great distance from each other.
The Earl ventured to suggest a night attack, but was also this time again overruled.

[Note 31: Who should think about, that I and the irrationality Savagery of these people over
exaggerating, which I advise, two books on Reading will convince him that I, the colors more
have plotted as reduced too much.

The titles of these two Works are: + Hind Let Loose + and + Faithful Contending displayed. +]

[Note 32: See. D. Transl.]

[Argyle's troops scattered.] After the decision was taken not to fight,
had no to do further left than the step that Hume had recommended.

There was some possibility provided, that the Earl, when he left quietly and the whole night through Haiden
and marshes of them rushed off to the enemy gain a lead of several miles, and without could achieve
further disability Glasgow. Was allowed to burn the camp-fires, and sat down in March. But now a
disaster followed the other.

    The leaders failed their way through the Moore led the army in soft
    and swampy ground. A Military regulations could in these undisciplined
    and disheartened soldiers under a stockfinstren sky and a
    treacherous, uneven ground will not be sustained. Terror on terror
    spread in the separate rows. What you saw and heard was
    considered a sign of the approach of the Pursuers.

    Some of the officers wore to the increase of fear, while their would
have been required to reduce them.

 And I'm keeping one ear cocked for Nan."

"There's no change," she interrupted him. "Charlotte would tell us. I left Nan on purpose.
I want him, every time he opens his eyes, to see her there. She's the one he wants. Mothers
don't count." Here again the elemental woman flashed out and Raven welcomed the reality of
it. "She couldn't help being kind, with him as he is."

No, he inwardly concurred, Nan, who had kissed the boy to hearten him in his need, would be
ready with her medicinal love again. She'd pour herself out: trust her for that.

"Besides," he said, "besides you and Dick and Nan, I was thinking of Old Crow."

"Old Crow?" This threw her out for an instant and she went back to her conception of Raven
as a victim of complexes of which Old Crow was chief. "It's no time for dwelling on things
that are past and gone. You think far too much about Old Crow. It weakens you."

"Old Crow," said Raven quietly, "is the chap you and I need here to-night. I'd like mighty
well to sit down and talk it over with him. So would you, if you knew him better. Old Crow
went through what you and I are going through now. He found the world a deuced puzzling place
and he didn't see the conventional God as any sort of a solution. And then--I don't suppose
you're going to bed right off. You won't feel like sleep?"

"Bed!" she flung out. "Sleep!"

"Then look here, Milly," said Raven, "you do what I tell you." He opened a drawer in his desk
and took out the mottled book. "Here's Old Crow's journal. You sit here by the fire and read
it while I take Nan's place and send her off to bed. And if it doesn't give you an idea Old
Crow's got his mind on us to-night, wherever he is, I'm mistaken."

He brought her the book. She took it, with no interest, leaving it unopened on her knee.

"Wherever he is," she repeated, not precisely curious, but as if she might be on the verge
of it when she again had time. "I didn't know you believed in immortality."

"I didn't, either," said Raven. "But," he added, "I believe in Old Crow."

She was holding the book mechanically and he left her sitting with it still unopened and went
in to Dick. He found him restless, not in any movement of his body but in the glance of his
dilated eyes. Nan looked up, grave, steady, gone back, as Raven saw, to her trained habit of
action, emotionless, concentrated on the moment.

"You'd better go up to bed," said Raven. "I'll stay now. He can have you to-morrow."

"He can have me all the time," said Nan clearly, and Dick's eyes turned upon her with an indifferent
sort of query. How much did she mean by that? It sounded as if she meant everything, and yet
Raven, his heart constricting, knew it might not be more than impetuous sacrifice, the antidote
given in haste. But now Dick spoke and Raven bent to him, for either he was too weak to speak
clearly or he was saving himself.

"Don't arrest him. No end of talk."

"No," said Raven. "It wasn't you he was out for."

The restless eyes turned on Nan.

"Go to bed," said Dick.

Her hand had been on his and she took it gently away, and got up. Everything has to serve to the lack of true to
cover up love, selfless and noble feelings: science and art, public interest and humanity, Christianity
and free-thinking, plenty of nice scenery for a worthless Spectacle! "

Faustina was extremely moving. I felt sorry for her being destroyed touched me. I recognized as
the fate lived in it, and a half-apologetic, half self-mockery Smile, which came immediately to her
lips, could not deceive me. I was silent, my long Silence gave her back some attitude. She got
up and walked with folded arms and down, she continued: "There is a short story by Chekhov,
it deals with an aging Man who has an affair with a married woman. They meet secretly and once,
just as he embraces her welcoming, it is sad, and wonders why it they loved. He thinks of the
others, he thinks of how many loved him, and that none of them, not one had been happy with him.
Time passed, it is said about, he made acquaintances, closed conditions, separated again, but
never loved it, and it was everything you wanted, have been, but no love. The word is in me
remained liable. Everything you wanted, it had been, but no love. The man was how many, and
the woman loves him, yes, she loves him, but not himself, but the People, those who created
their imagination, and when they noticed their mistake, she loves him yet further. What should
she do? May I tell you something? Something quite ridiculous? I made a small division. I have
divided the women into cats and natures in dog natures, and the men in spoiled and lazy. Cats
are tied to the place Dogs in the Lord, cats are faithless, dogs are loyal, cats have character, dogs;
if you stretch out your finger, the cat is on your hand, but the dog against the target look,
and so on. You know what I mean. Or is the analogy is not plausible? Spoiled and lazy, it
can make the amusing observations. As one of the Career, the other the comfort. The nerd is ruthless,
the lazy enough; the Goody is a fortunate hunter, lazy a secret thief his booty in safety has
brought, for the lazy is always a secret thief. The nerd is conservative in principle, the lazy
of mindlessness, the Goody's revolutionary out of opportunism, the lazy self-interest, one
is a usurer and the other a pimp, and Philistines Are both of them. Yes, it's a beautiful
world, a wonderful time! If you all this could sex in a large coffin lay and bury at once, so I
could tell a wonderful Font grave. "

"And that would be?"

"Died, the widespread creeping disease. Sluggishness of the heart"

"Well, it will not kill you."

"Certainly not, because you can comfortably live on."

"Wrong track, wrong track, Faustina, hopelessly wrong track."

"Of course," murmured Faustina, "wrong track as Theseus. But there's no out of this maze Escape. "

"Let's do it the bull by the horns, Faustina. What is love? Who love? Who is capable of love?
Who can presume to speak: love is so and so and not otherwise. Who It may venture to fly out
of the relations of the concept and its unity, its pragmatic Validity, to proclaim its purest
incarnation? Love is something exceedingly rare, Faustina. Let us make that clear! The love, the
real love, not the people from around the mouth, a phenomenon just as often, just great, just
as admirable as the genius. Their lower or less low manifestations of the ranks of the creatures
are so rich and changeable as the creatures themselves But take an individual out, to put
it on your way abruptly to bring to the imperative of love, so is the about the same as when you
sing to him recite the twenty-five letters of the alphabet and he then command: since you have
everything you need now'm creating a beautiful Seal. It is used to convert jump with the word love
as a household appliance. It has no affection more, this unfortunate word, it is like a prostitute,
to everyone's service, and it seems to me one would have to invent a new, to express what it meant
to express. There is a certain mean literature that is preferably of love, from a love that distinction
is going to get is to have meaning, should be noble-hearted and selfless, and oh, none of this
they have a wax doll she is. If one wanted her, which is quite close, with these products
seduced to believe in the frequency of love, it would be very wrong.

Our best Poet, which is an unmistakable vision of the reality of
their specific world belong, even with a highly instructive caution
the love in the area of ​​their inventions.

"

"Because they know nothing about it, because they are afraid, just as in life."

"Oh no, Faustina, that would be even cheaper to the end. Because they have recognized their
rarity. Let us keep to the parable with the genius. The genius does not come into function when
in a time is born, which is already prepared for his work. It is between the genius and the
time it were stored up an electrical voltage. With the love it is not different. The man was
born to love must win for him the highest type and specific vice versa. It is not enough that
in an individual being the ability and possibility of love exist, but they must pay tribute to
a special sway favorable circumstances, that a Related subject. Who is destined to love, which
must also something of the heroic and somewhat of martyrs. Suppose, then, it develops into two individuals
preferred the love. Let's go a little too anatomically works. If we decompose such love into their
components. Since we have primarily the passion that as a kind of inflammation of the blood
and the mind must apply; also: deifying force through them is the beloved lifted transformed
from the crowd of those who are living and in an idol. Further, sensuous and sensual Desire;
arises the sensual passion, the supernatural of deification; then: unlimited devotion, and their
characteristic is that they are also at highest generosity of Grant can never meet, also: a delicacy of
feeling, which is dependent of every dream, from the slightest idea, and finally, a restlessness
that is nevertheless a very specific goal, like the quivering needle.

You make fun about my professorial Sound, I see.

I choose it on purpose because I between enthusiasm and objectivity have no choice, and if I
do not want to appear enthusiastic, I must be dry. "

"I do not mock me. Only drive on. "

"It takes little perspicacity to recognize the fact that the love of two main sources added,
an elementary and an ethical, a sensual and a moral. If we consider the more trivial forms of
love, it turns out that they almost always only a single of those properties is established.
We then have the love from passion, or love of sensuality, or the selbstentäußernde love, or
the sentimental love, or the restless unsatisfied love. The variations are countless, of course,
for example, if of a sensual man and the woman harbors a deifying love, or vice versa, or if the
man and the woman unsatisfied restless selbstentäußernd loves, and so on. In most cases, it be
such as to meet even the most rugged contrasts. starts with a variation even conflict, and where
conflicts are, no resistance. An Affair to know no conflicts, it takes place in a perfect balance. Differentiated
all united the harmony and beauty. A distinguishing Santander preference will never be isolated
and never act without counterpart, only the opposite, in an affirmative sense, brings a virtue to Development:
Grace will require, for example, the spirit, the power of goodness, nobility, bravery. In the
great love and only in it, turned the man, and he will speak about his ideal limits extended.
It is use in a state of demonic, or to your expression, of possession. Everything is visible and
all Tangible a single reference, he finds everywhere and in all, the parable with the object
of his love, in music and in Poem, in drawing the clouds, in the rustling of the trees, in the
contemplation of an image of a flame, a stone, bird flight paths and people have for him the
same misty distance, and yet He has everything in it and nothing except himself, he is open to all sides
against the world and yet not be touched by it, he is the kindest friend, the participant Companion,
yet alone with his lover in the universe. What thrilled him first in her has, say, a particular
curve of the forehead, a special way to lift the lids or shake hands with a tone of voice, a
rhythm of the step, a smile, a gesture All this is universal law, that is, going so once and
for all the people, they say, they look, they shake hands, the whole picture of existence
is at a fixed Image of beauty. In the great love that is everything is positivity, and it is
all its infinite and eternal. It can therefore never stop, neither the one nor to the other side.
Only the death of her can put an end to an end, of course, the deepest meaning after an apparent
and needs to be. Fortune or misfortune to come out of the question for them, their Tragedy lies
elsewhere, so it is the only life form that has an inborn tragedy and this tragedy is not only
the possibility but also the need of loss, death decided. Love knows no other risk and threat
as death. From the first moment of love, death stands as a silent guardian formally visible
next to it. Very beautiful is the love in Shakespeare's tragedy brought to view: everything
sought from the beginning to the death of the imperative with which it occurs, ruled secretly
every event. And to refer to the difference in genres, is Romeo, before the great Entetement occurs,
embroiled in a love of ordinary nature. "

"Where are you taking me there, my dear," sighed Faustina. "The promised
land is this love for our kind can not be reached.

This would have come under a special star to the world.

"

"Yes, like all the great" I replied.

"Do you think, seriously, that it really is such a love?"

I had to smile, because your question had something of the naivete of a child.

"Do you think too," she continued, "that the provision to only on one side, on the can lie side
of the man or the woman, that one part after another vain languishes
and searched the entire earth without finding him?

"

Faustina looked at me anxiously, they obviously wanted to win a sedative,
not noticed I had given the answer to that question already.

"Without a doubt," I replied.

"Every conceivable state of mind and emotion can and will somehow
and somewhere to appearance go, otherwise we would not be able to
imagine it.

The case that you fictitious, but with the great love nothing more
in common, perhaps not with love.

"

"But?"

"But with the longing.

Longing can be productive, but it can also be infertile. It depends on the person who feeds them.
"

"It seems to me, desire is the most sublime feeling in the human breast."

"If they are productive, yes."

"What do you call productive desire?"

"I call productive desire that which is capable of a vision into reality, dreamed of giving a
present or desired state. "

"Since you put so, and how this is possible with the desire to advance an act of will?"

"Yes, I do, however, an act of will, perhaps through the mysterious telepathic Powers encouraged
and supported. "

"Well, I see that you are consistent. If you take the unfathomable recourse to hear the arguments.
The unfathomable over there are not at fault and no error anymore. "

"Why talk of debt, Faustina? But you may be right, maybe it really is a kind of guilt if the
feeling does not contribute to the beloved object, but the move is broken by foreign influences.
Never to have beirrbaren instinct, which is already a big deal and a rare thing. Just as our
life is happening today, do not know how each one is woven into a machine-like moving a whole,
as he is forced to add much to what is foreign to his nature, as its smallest misstep him irretrievably
tearing down of the way of his will, as it stands unconcealed, such as chain link, as has all his deeds
and actions and a much more rapid succession as he wishes, as the elemental must constantly
fight in it against the demands of the day and the world, he must give peace and self-determination,
not only to be crushed by the forces, raging around him, so it is naturally more difficult
to obey an inner voice, yes just to hear them at all. What a few generations have summoned a
number of fifty was that today is a result of more stringent selection and testing only harder
to twelve or three or five are met. Who is to the ideal of love's sake his life on the ? Set Fortunately,
the human heart is always ready to contracts. Would love suddenly common property of all, it
would be in forty years the earth died out. Who does not love to is chosen, the fate has also
failed strength and patience. He is content, because He must humble himself. He loves what
he does against love, its ruler is the chance.

He conquered or he can conquer a semblance of difficulty and distance,
produces the it necessary poetry.

One loves a body, the second a face, the third a Look, a hand. I
do not mean just literally, I just want to say that he Part for the
whole increasing. To take the part for the whole, the human species
is, and not even the worst, it makes even characters. The lover's
eyes man, his suffering are real, its pleasures are Dionysian, the
other, the love only guess like a night-goers the dawn, is a man groping
his ardor is a fever, his joys and sorrows are imaginary, it becomes
saturated by bread alone, however, consumes his imagination heavenly
food, he sees not, he knows how to look not at all, he just wants
to be lulled, he will only dream of, he is always ready to philosophical
or is suspicious, jealous, sad, insatiable; supersaturated rapidly,
he can not lose in love, so much he wants it, because the Current
that has gripped it, is not deep enough. Some people love only love
or longing for the love or the mask of love, or the restlessness of
love or the triumph of love, and so we can go down deeper and deeper
until the love is nothing left than the name. Failure has many forms.
Did you not then also the young B. Baron, who was with the German
embassy? "

"The great seducer of women -"

"Yes. But somehow the two of them there
together, with that poor little devil between them--well, it seemed to me I couldn't separate
them. That's marriage, I suppose. Anyhow it looked to me like it: something you couldn't undo
because they wouldn't have it undone."

Nan turned on him her old impetuous look.

"You simpleton!" she had it on her tongue to say. "She doesn't want it undone because anybody
that lifts a finger will get you--not her--deeper into the mire." But she did say: "I don't
believe you can even guess what she wants, chiefly because she doesn't want anything for herself.
But if you didn't ask her to leave him, what did you do?"

"I told him to hold himself ready for arrest."

"You're a funny child," commented Nan. "You warn the criminal and give him a chance to skip."

"Yes," said Raven unsmilingly. "I hoped he would. I thought I was giving her one more chance.
If he did skip, so much the better for her."

"How did she look?" asked Nan, and then added, tormenting herself, "Beautiful?"

"Yes, beautiful. Not like an angel, as we've seen her. Like a saint: haggard, with hungry eyes.
I suppose the saints hunger, don't you? And thirst." He was looking off through the tree boles
and Nan, also looking, found the distance dim and felt the sorrow of youth and spring. "Everything,"
said Raven, "seems to be in waves. It has its climax and goes down. Tenney's reached the climax
of his jealousy. Now he's got himself to think about, and the other thing will go down. Rather
a big price for Dick to pay, to make Tira safe, but he has paid and I fancy she's safe." He
turned to her suddenly. "Milly's very nice to you," he asserted, half interrogatively.

He saw the corner of her mouth deepen a little as she smiled. Milly had not, they knew, been
always nice.

"Yes," she agreed, "very nice. She gives me all the credit she doesn't give you about doctors
and nurses and radiographs and Dick's hanging on by his eyelids. She says I've saved him."

"So you have," said Raven. "You've kept his heart up. And now you're tired, my dear, and I
want you to go away."

"To go away?" said Nan. "Where?"

"Anywhere, away from us. We drain you like the deuce."

"No," said Nan, turning from him and speaking half absently, "I can't go away."

"Why can't you?"

"He'd miss me."

"He'd know why you went."

Her old habit of audacious truth-telling constrained her.

"I should have to write to him," she said. "And I couldn't. I couldn't keep it up. I can baby
him all kinds of ways when he's looking at me with those big eyes. But I couldn't write him
as he'd want me to. I couldn't, Rookie. It would be a promise."

"Milly thinks you have promised." This he ventured, though against his judgment.

"No," said Nan. "No, I haven't promised. Do you want me to?"

"I don't know," Raven answered, without a pause, as if he had been thinking about it interminably. 2nd +]

[Note 158: Sheridan MS + +; preface to the first volume.

    Hibernia Anglicana +, 1690 +, + Secret Consults of the Romish
    Party in Ireland, 1689. +]
    

[Condition of the English colony.] The colony had its interior, and partly national, partly religious
strife. The majority were British, but a strong minority was of the south of Scotland. One
half of the settlers belonged to the state church, the other Half were dissenters. In Ireland,
however, were Scot and Southron (southerners) by its common Saxon origin, and Anglicans and
Presbyterians by their common Protestantism closely with each other. All the colonists had
a common language and a common pecuniary interest. They were surrounded by common enemies
and could secure only through common efforts and measures against the attacks of the same. Therefore,
were for the few in Ireland issued against Protestant nonconformists Criminal law a dead letter.
[159] The bigotry of the most rigid Anglicans resisted the influence of the transfer is not
about George channel. When the gentleman arrived in Ireland and is convinced that without the
assistance of his warm and courageous Puritan exposed neighbors and his family of danger, was
murdered by robbers Popish to advertise, so his hatred of Puritanism waned spontaneously more
and more and went out finally completely. Distinguished men of both parties made the remark that
a Protestant, was called in Ireland a Hochtory been regarded in England as a moderate Whig would
be. [160]

The Protestant Nonconformists themselves endured with more patience
than would be expected to to the sight of the most absurd ecclesiastical
constitution, which the world has ever seen.

Four Archbishops and eighteen bishops were in charge of a number of Anglicans, which was approximately
a fifth part of the community members of the London parish. A large Part of the parish clergy
were pluralists [161] and lived away from their communities. Some of them based on their livings
on an income of close to a thousand pounds a year, without ever carried on a spiritual function.
Nevertheless, this perverse institution the Puritans settled in Ireland is not nearly as odious
as the English sectaries the English country church. For Ireland, the religious divisions were
subordinated to national, and though the Presbyterians reject as theologian, the hierarchy of the
Established Church had to he saw it again with a kind of pleasure in this hierarchy, if they see
them as a brilliant and ostentatious trophy of victory looked to the great master, which he sprung had been
achieved. [162]

So had the suffering of the Irish Catholics with those of the English Catholics hardly common. The Catholic
from Lancashire or Staffordshire needed only to be Protestant, to
then stand by its neighbors in every respect equal, but if the Catholics
of become Munster or Connaught and Protestants were, they would therefore
still a subjugated People have stopped.

All the evils that had to endure the Roman Catholic in England, sprang from harsh laws and
would be eliminated by a more liberal can, and the inequality between the two populations of
Ireland, however, was neither a Legislation incurred, or it could be lifted by one. The rule,
which one of these two populations over the other exercised, was the rule of wealth on poverty, education
over ignorance, not of civilized over the civilized People.

[Note 159: "If not by the law, but by mutual secret understanding was complete freedom of conscience.
" + King, chap. III. sec 1st +]

[Note 160: In a letter to Jacob, by Bishop Tyrrel's papers was found and the date of the 14th Aug.
1686 with, again, are some remarkable statements.

    "It are few or no Protestants in this country who do not associated
    with the Whigs against the common enemy would be. "Then again: "Those
    who were there (in England) for Tories took the other side of the
water related party to the cause of Whigs.

    "Swift said the same thing a few years later to the King Wilhelm:
    "I remember during my last visit to England said the king to that
    the most stringent Tories with us all Whigs would be tolerable.
    "Letter on the Eucharist silk.]
    
    [Note 161: clergy, which several widely separated have distant benefices
    held that they partly or All the can manage. D. Transl.]
    
    [Note 162: The wealth and the negligence of the Anglican clergy mentioned
    the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland Clarendon, one of the unverwerflichen
    witnesses, in the strongest Expressions.]

    
    [Procedure, which would have to watch James.] James himself
    appeared at the beginning of his government have recognized these
truths to be completely.

    The confusion in Ireland, he said, do not spring from the
    division between Catholics and Protestants, but from the cleavage
    between Irishmen and Englishmen. [163] The conclusions that he
    made this quite right premiss could draw were close enough, unfortunately
for him and for Ireland it escaped him.

If only the national hatred could have been mitigated, there can be little doubt that the religious
animosity, which is not as harsh penal laws in England and Test Act was obtained by carefully monitored,
would be off by itself.

The attenuation of a national hatred as that which the two tribes inhabiting Ireland against each
other inspired, however, could not be the work of a few years. But it was a plant to the wise
and good prince would have much to contribute, and Jacob would with advantage made, how they were
none of his predecessors or his successors to the side. As an Englishman, while he was a Catholic,
half of the ruling, half of the subject Caste, and was therefore especially suitable for a
mediator between the two. It is should not adopt hard to describe the way he would have. He had
the inviolability the existing distribution of land ownership and decide this decision in a
manner to announce that calmed the concerns of the new owner and any bold aspirations of the
old owner put down. Whether in the great injustices Bills had occurred or not was not material,
this change in ownership, he may now meet or have been unjust had occurred so long ago that a knocking over
of the same the foundations of society would have shaken. It has all the rights for a period
of limitation . Give After thirty-five factual ones possession, after twenty-five years one
through the law solemnly guaranteed possession, after numerous leases and lease modifications, Pledges
and bequests it was too late to look for deficiencies in the legal titles. It would therefore
be able to always happen something to the wounded feelings of the Irish Gentry to heal and her
lower back aufzuhelfen prosperity. The settlers lived in very good conditions. They had their possessions
by buildings, plantings and fences improved significantly, and the rent had doubled within a
few years, trade flourished and the state revenues, which amounted annually to about three hundred
thousand pounds, covered not only plenty of all administrative costs, but also showed a surplus,
was sent to England. There was no doubt that the next coming together in Dublin Parliament, although
it is almost exclusively represented the English interest, in recognition to preserve the
royal promise, this interest in all his legal rights, would be willing to grant the king a very
significant sum, to ensure that such indigenous Families who had been unlawfully deprived of
to compensate at least partially. On This crept ended in our time, the French government disputes
that Güterconfiscation through the most extensive that has ever taken place in Europe in the wake
had been. Would also Jacob, when he was with his most loyal Protestant Rathgeber would be guided, one of
the main evil that weighs on Ireland, or at least significantly have softened. [164]

After he had done so, he would have had to work to the hostile tribes by impartial Protectors of their
rights and reconciled by curbing the excesses of both with each other. He had the natives, who
gave himself the unbridled wantonness of barbarity, with the same to punish severely, as the
settlers who had abused the dominance of the civilization. As far as the lawful authority of
the crown - and they ranged widely in Ireland - would Nobody that enabled his integrity and skill
for office because of his be origin or belief for any public position held unfit should. A
Roman Catholic king with a standing of its free range State income,
had probably no great difficulty of cooperation by Catholic can keep
prelates and priests at the great works of reconciliation insured.

Much would But still the healing influence of time must be left. The natives were still of the settlers
activity, concern for the future of the arts Life and the English language had to learn. There
could be no equality between People living in houses, and people who lived in houses, between
people who of bread, and people who are fed on potatoes, between people, which the noble Language
of great philosopher and poet said, and people who are perverse pride in boasted that they could
not distort their lips to a jargon in which the "progress science "and the" paradise lost one,
"were written. [165] One can, however, with good reason to assume that if the above-described conciliatory
policy of the Government been pursued consistently, would like all barriers gradually and that
of the hostility which have been the curse of Ireland is no more traces would be left behind, as of
the same bitter hostility that once in England between the Saxons and the Normans raged.

[Note 163: Clarendon reminds the king thereto in one of 14. March 1685 / 86 dated letters,
and adds: "This is undoubtedly a very correct view. "]

[Note 164: Clarendon strongly recommended this procedure and was of the opinion that the Irish
Parliament his part to would help. See his letter to Ormond, 28 Aug. 1686.]

[Note 165: It was an O'Neill of high repute, which once said that it would not be proper for
him, the mouth To tilt to babble in English. - Preface to the Hibernia + Anglicana +.]

[His mistakes.] Unfortunately, Jacob was not a mediator, but on the contrary, the most violent
and reckless partisan. Instead of the mutual hatred between the two populations to appease, he roused
him to a hitherto unprecedented fervor.

    He determined its position to turn to each other and the Protestant
    settlers under the feet of the Popish Celts to throw. Being
    a member of the Established Church, and have English blood in his
veins, was in his eyes, unable to bourgeois as clothing militaire
offices.

    He reflected on the Plan, half of the whole land of the island
    confisciren again and to distribute new, and this idea he gave
    to understand so clearly that one party soon seized with a fear was
to appease it to anybody for free, the other was full of hopes He
later tried in vain to knock down.

    This was only the smallest part of his Crime and its perversity.
    He took the deliberate decision not only the indigenous to
    put Ireland in the undivided possession of their country, but
    also as tools of their to operate the establishment of a despotism
in England.

It was so successful, as he could have foreseen. The colonists opposed to the stubborn courage of
their Tribe and the mother country regarded her as their own thing with law. It was now a
desperate struggle for a terrible use. All that is dear to a nation, stand on both sides at stake,
and we can blame neither the Irishman nor the British, that in this extreme danger to the law followed
the self-preservation. The fight was terrible, but short, and the weaker part of subject. His
fate was hard, however, was the cruelty, with which he was treated, if not to justify, to excuse
him, for it met him but all that could add to him only the tyranny, but no more than himself the enemy
would have done if he had overcome him. The result of this senseless attempt England with the help
of Ireland to subdue, was that the Irishman the woodcutters and water carriers the English were.
The old landlord lost in the attempt, what was lost again to conquer, even the greater part of what
they had left. The temporary Preponderance of the papacy called such a series of barbaric laws against
Popery show that this notorious Irish law book in the whole Christian world literally was. These
were the bitter fruits of Jacob's policy.

We have already seen that one of his first steps after he became king, the Ormond's recall from
Ireland. Ormond was the head of the English interest in this country, he was an ardent supporter
of the Protestant faith and its power far exceeded that of an ordinary Lord Lieutenant, first
because he is the chief and most settlers, and secondly because he is not only the head of the Civil Administration,
but also the commander of the troops. The king was not inclined at that time, the government only
to leave Irish hands, had heard him say, in fact, a native viceroy would soon become an independent
ruler. [166] For the moment he decided, therefore, the Power which Ormond had had to divide
the civil service and an English Protestant Lord Lieutenant and the command of the Army and an Irish
Roman Catholic to General transferred. The Lord Lieutenant was Clarendon, the general was Tyrconnel.

Tyrconnel was born, as we have said, from one of the degenerate families of the old Colony, which
was usually lumped together with the original population of Ireland. At times, he said, although
in a fit of boastfulness with Norman wantonness of the Celtic barbarians,
but in reality, the natives had all his sympathies [167].

The Protestant settlers he hated, and they replied his hatred. Clarendon's inclinations were
quite different kind, but he was to character, out of interest and principle of a compliant
Courtier. His courage was low, not his financial circumstances, shiny, and the political Doctrines,
which preached the Anglican Church at that time only too eager, had his Spirit of imprinted deep. His
skills were too good not to be despised and under a Kings, he would probably have been an excellent
viceroy.

[Note 166: Sheridan-handwritten. among the Stuart papers. I must here acknowledge the courtesy
with which Mr. Glover in me my research for this valuable manuscripts has supported. From the instruction,
which in 1692 for Jacob their son put on shows, that until recently he believes was, Ireland
could not without risk an Irish Lord Lieutenant be trusted.]

[Note 167: Sheridan-handwritten.]

[Clarendon's arrival in Ireland as Lord Lieutenant.] It took about three quarters between the
recall and Ormond's arrival in Dublin's Clarendon. In the meantime the king by a college of judges
represents Lord, the Military Administration but was Tyrconnel's hands. The intentions of the palace
started to gradually unveil already. It came from White Hall, a royal command to disarm the
people. This command took Tyrconnel, as far as it related to the English, with severely. Although
the country by bands of robbers was rendered unsafe, a Protestant gentleman could scarcely permission,
a pair of pistols to be allowed to keep. The native country people,
however, were left arms.

    [168] The Joy of the colonists was so great to finally appointed
    in December 1685 Tyrconnel to London Clarendon and even Dublin was
    sent.
     I'd lie there and say
it over to myself, and see if the rest of it wouldn't come." He laughed a little, though not
bitterly. He was frankly amused. "What do you think? I couldn't even remember the confounded
thing. But I could other things: the verse I despised. Wasn't that the limit? Omar Khayyám!
I lay there and remembered it by the yard."

"That's easy," said Raven. "Nothing like the first impressions. They stick."

"Evidently," said Dick. "They did stick. And my stuff didn't."

"Is this," Raven ventured, not seeing whether the boy was quivering under his calm, "a case
against the moderns?"

Dick answered promptly, though Raven could only wonder, after all, just what he meant:

"It's a case against me." He went on, his eyes still on the melodious orchard converts. It
must have been a vagabond robin swaggering there, really deriding nests, he found so much leisure
to sing about them. "I wanted to say I didn't get you that time when you told me you'd pretty
much done with the world. I though Mum was right: cafard, you remember. But I've swung round
into the same rut. It's a rotten system. I'm done with it."

Raven looked at him in a sudden sharp misery of apprehension. First, Old Crow, then he, then
Dick, one generation following another.

"Don't you go that path, old man," he said. "You'll only lose your way and have to come back."

"Come back?"

"Yes. Old Crow did. Remember the book. He challenged the whole business, and then he swung
round to adoring it all, the world and Whoever made it. He didn't understand it a whit better,
but he believed, he accepted, he adored."

"What would you say?" Dick asked curiously, after a moment. "Just what happened to him?"

"Why, I suppose," said Raven, "in the common phrase, he found God."

They were silent for a time and both of them tried desperately to think of the vagabond robin.
Raven, his mind released by this fascination of dwelling on Dick apart from any responsibility
of talking to him, found it running here, there, back and forth, over these weeks of their
stay together. It halted, it ran on, it stopped again to consider, but always it was of Dick
and incidentally of himself who didn't matter so much, but who had to be in it all. Were they
at one in this epidemic of world sickness? As the great explosive forces of destruction and
decay seemed to have released actual germs to attack the physical well-being of races, had
the terrible crashes of spiritual destinies unsettled the very air of life, poisoned it, drugged
it with madness and despair? Was there a universal disease of the mind, following this wholesale
slaughter, which the human animal hadn't been able really to bear though it had come to a lull
in it, so that now it was, in sheer shrieking panic, clutching at its various antidotes to
keep on living? One antidote was forgetfulness. They were forgetting the War, some thousands
of decent folk who clearly had meant to remember. A horrible antidote that, but perhaps they
had to take it to save themselves. Too big a price to pay for living (and such thread-paper
lives!) but still there did seem to be a prejudice in favor of the mere drawing of breath. What is now in the process come about? There's the needle. What has him at all times
can be so powerful? But probably only the brazen context of its members due to a brazen tradition.
But today, today is all clerks already with an individuality provided, and each cow was cleaning up
from her doting self-determination. What is the consequence? Even before the poorest human obligations
are met, the man claims to have luck made, how to present a change in control. All the so fortunate in
the possession of a Personality, which is precisely the same personality in their view, the bad
Merchants participating in a large company with a small capital and want to become overnight
millionaires. This personality knights practicing a new law of the jungle and from the lawlessness
which it encourages them appears as the summit of freedom and culture. My belief is this,
that a democratic era now, nor ever can be an era of love. Just so in love, the sacrifice of
the personality required. Dedication! A wonderful word! The Democrat, the individual Democrat,
he gives not indicate that he is on only. And he loves, he must love purposeful. And outside the
Sensuality, where would there be left for him purpose? So he must love sensual. "

"One can formulate the way you want, Faustina, and I do not argue
against it, only marvel I am, because you have just themselves but
argues for the senses.

"

"Did I do that? So I just want to say that the sensuality erect their own throne and has enslaved the
other powers of love. When the organic interplay of forces formed ends, so, medically speaking,
new growth, which is at the expense of the rest Nourish the body and destroy him slowly. "

is
"This medical compared to me - morally, dear friend.

We must not, at any Price to be moral, otherwise we undermine the ability to communicate. There
are a kind of sensuality that seems not much different than the light, when used in clear
water and the water falls to the ground-rayed, it dematerialized. What sensuality do you oppose
the individual sensibility? About the naive? That would be a scheme. Each scheme falls short of
the experience, not to mention the synthesis throughout. Statuieren Let us, for example, a difference
between elementary and sophisticated sensuality. Where's the line? Wilde is the fundamental, because
he seeks only the females in general? Is Werther differentiated, because he shoots himself at Lotte?
You see, when you have such distinctions no support. "

"Oh, they differ as you like, but you will not talk to me that there
is a Sensuality is, a cause and a sensuality that is a consequence.

One is a flush, the other is a force that is governed by a the will, the other comes from the
Soul ... "

"Well, well, that may have its correctness, but we get no results.

We win only insight, if we start from the imagination, if we say there is a sensuality without imagination,
and there is a sensuality with imagination. Yes, I am going to say so far: Imagination and sensibility
are like the two wings of the same nature, love of nature namely, the two wings to resolve without
which it is never from the chaos and the earth may bring. And me one thing is clear: that the
modern ideal of love or of sensuality much more under the sign of the imagination is, as was
the case anywhere. "

"Are you serious?"

"My perfect seriousness. I stress: the ideal. I want the phenomena themselves not consider,
and I will gladly admit that we are further away than ever from the ideal. The Reason lies not
in the inferiority of life, but in the superiority of the ideal. Just by the Persönlichwerdung
our existence is indeed the wealth of forms and Richness of the results being increased infinitely.
What on the one hand, the separation the good, the isolation of the efficient causes does,
on the other side of the force and the Act under which they arrive at all to bear, to develop
their powers. There is thus a confluence of many isolated ideals, a mesh increased Live scenes of
the most heterogeneous nature instead, the whole and its organic fusion, when it will be even gone
so far, even from the very primitive and therefore of differ beginning harmonious ideals of
previous eras is. And besides, what could a stronger stimulus for the imagination than just the
distance between ideal and reality? "

"Oh," Faustina said frowning, "it is the imagination that is a means
of renunciation be?

That shows mans, with logic one is deliciously well! "

"At a means of renunciation, - yes. But not in the spirit of asceticism, but in the spirit of Perfection,
and perfection. A lover, Faustina, what is he other than a has chosen, one whose sense of momentum
for the most intense it possible source of pleasure has decided. Let us imagine the sensual nature,
we think it also capable of love and determined to love in the most noble Art By chooses, she takes
her irrevocable fate; she knows it, and because they know it, it follows a high moral imperative
if the object of love in the highest region of perfection does. The more imagination in this game
now is, the more reality can be forgotten, and not in a selfish illusion but in a beautiful, selfless,
perfect deception, indeed, flatly said, in a deception in favor of the perfect. Or take a
negative example: assume we unhappy Lover, and I do not mean of course those from external reasons,
but those prevented from internal reasons, are to become one. Lovers are unhappy beings not have
the patience, that is, not the force had not in the last reason the provision to choose. Now
what does that mean: to be patient while passionate mind? It will nothing else to say have a
creative imagination. And that the true lover creative Imagination has that shows itself in the very moment
when he begins to love. "

"Still do not, dear friend, still I do not quite see how we, we elect of the twentieth century,
it has an advantage. Their arguments do not satisfy me, oh, in arguments, I am so insatiable,
as in everything else. There was a time when love was an event, an adventure, a miracle and
a wonder she was, and today? If you or for your peers, for man or woman, love is a miracle? This large
incomprehensible, this ... This wonderful -? No, no, no! Or I do not know us? I do not know
my time? If the eyes of a woman caught? Transform the experiences of a woman not in a recognition?
At this point, your righteousness, your famous men justice not be decorated like philosophy
and excuse. Where the miracle is not what is intended as the Fantasy? What are wing, where
there is no air that carries them? From Adler tells you that he must die if he can not fly,
he can not go to, so he must die. It is not like the eagles, you men, you can also go and make
yourselves before each hunter from the dust. "

"The miracle! The miracle of love! As that sounds Faustina! As a novel by George Sand. The matter
is really this, that our love means no more miracles. "

"Really? And why, if I may ask?

Let me hear the reason, I am curious and ahead of full contradiction, because it is a piece of me
heart. "

"No, love as a phenomenon for us is no miracle in the sense of 1750 or 1820, where the lover in the
refinement of his feeling, reflected in his feeling was almost to the Narcissus. The Reason
why this is no longer so, is that we are a part, too scientific, other hand, historically feel to
it. Sun said out dry, the taste of pedantry but we're not aware of the causes. Scientifically,
not only because we read in books or because we observe it in nature or because every life
process it teaches, but because we believe the better view, or expressed in the Marrow and bone
sits in that everything that breathes is, and growing, the same law obeyed, that a bond of love wraps
around all beings, an instinct of procreation, a will Creator to be to conquer death, everyone
and everything passes through to the core. Historically reason that our minds are in no way intoxicated
and selfish at the moment is because we are full of history, of immanent experience, as well
as the fate of individual whole generations, and indeed the whole species resistant and without
are we aware of that, speaks to us, suggesting our own way. So little to us a storm in superstitious
fear added very little that we seem to be the great love wonderful event, so both come from
nature, both are founded in the birth and death. But now comes the strange Reviews In general, in
particular the existence of catastrophic, we have ceased to wonder and abetting, to see secret
and personal debt, on a small scale but, in the everyday of doing and viewing us every thing
is surprising. It is most significant is this word: wonder. We are constantly surprised actually.
It amazes us the Worm, it amazes us the starry sky, it amazes us the apple surprise to us
a mountain, water and electricity. It amazes us, the beggars and it amazes us the rich man,
it amazes us the murderer and it amazes us the poet, it amazes us the brave and the coward
surprised us. That's because we have discovered in all this the need to feel for the unconditional their
existence and thus ultimately the beauty that they own form of beauty. As before by a pantheism
we could speak of a Panhumanismus or better from a Supreme Being. We all become human, become
creaturely, - belong. That is because the sources of joy to have an immense increase is clear,
and the realm of beauty, as Christ said the kingdom of God within us. The kingdom of love
also. And if we now have in the world so if our sense, they constantly possess, it follows that
but for the senses themselves, that they on a limited, on a rich, have pointed to a purpose and
objectives of full, they brave enough and proud now and that their most essential ally, because of intuition,
of idea of ​​understanding, of worship, fueled by world-feeling, the imagination is. It is
also in love. The sensuality is therefore no longer limited to the body, they will not conquer not
be tempted, from gallant arts they need to understand anything, because it seeks nothing more
than agreement. She does not list, because it evaluates, it reveals not the Body but the soul,
yes, it relies entirely on such inner revelations and is a form you not know if the form does not
correspond to a content. It is jealousy therefore an incomprehensible concept, because it is
the uniqueness, the immutable law, sure it is based. There is no emotion in it, do not say a
word, to understanding was based. We are again come to the imagination, because he has no understanding
other root as the spiritual power of man's imagination. "

"You go with something random about the imagination, my dear," remarked Faustina cool.

"Do I? In fact, I write the imagination to a much larger role than
it otherwise happens.

Only with their help we are able to capture the souls of others. Many Properties that one is only
too easy to be regarded as vices are inclined only in a lack of imagination founded. The miser,
the proud, the Cruel, the Whiners, the informer, the self-satisfaction, atheists, etc. are
different than what they Unimaginative or - visionary, which is almost the same. Certain words
would kill us, if not the imagination would be that they can be scattered in the air and sound.
Have you the never know Faustina? "

"I've learned, really."

"And it would be forgiveness for suffered insults without imagination? No. Man is vindictive,
imagination refined this impulse. Such a man is now no more vicious. One can say with confidence who
has real fantasy that is virtuous. If you now of sensuality the imagination to take what is left then?
If I love, and my sensual desire is no imagination, I am like one who is trapped in total
darkness, yes, it is possible that because I fall into the madness. Only by the imagination
gets my desire the ordination, the sweetness, the beauty, charm and brilliance of the moon, those
drops of Melancholy, without the passion not see a soul. Sensuality without imagination is nothing
but the sad battle of two beings who seek to destroy each other unconscious. Of course, there
is in life not just one or the other, the sufferings and errors, the an imperfect state brings with
it remain, including a few spares. How often does to married people or people in love battle!
How many marriages that seemed borne by love and is only attached by habit and civil considerations,
dragged himself painfully out in strife, quarrels and misunderstandings! Men, otherwise just
and noble women, otherwise gentle and forgiving, forgetting and they become animals that make each
other hunting, each other cause wounds to choose strong words, words such as ground blade, with
exaggerated Accusations undermine the respect that everyone has to ask from the other cheap,
and without the attitude is that they know also the indifference to preserve. There are the ugly Scenes,
and they are ugly, because such people are devoid of all imagination, because they do not assets,
the miserable to think beyond the moment because the moment in them stronger than the heart, when
fate, as death and eternity. Yes, so are the fancy ones, they only live from moment to moment,
they vibrate only in the intervals, the moment self them is nothing. "

"This is everything to me" too general, "said Faustina. "Part too general, sometimes too categorical.
I know circumstances, the nature of the imagination has nothing to
do, or I would have to extend the concept of the imagination too far.

Suppose a spiritually significant Wife loves a bullfinch, or a man of genius loves an ordinary
goose. This is yet often enough before, I should think. And how easy are these relationships,
my God, how simple. Her A and O is a natural sensuality, and they usually do not provide greater
assurance for a lasting happiness than those pesky fine alliances, but in which all properties
on made, and not to the whole of creation? You do not even understand each other too well
in love, a little strangeness does not. We people, we are there, we understand each other to misunderstand
us so well and so often. The bodies, I think, is the too great familiarity the souls of evil.
It violates the modesty. "

"The modesty? In what way? "

"That no doubt suffer.

The greater the spiritual refinement, the greater will modesty. It is a sensitive issue, and some
writers think rightly, that it would be a disgrace even to talk about modesty or what anyone
says about to listen. The deeper one looks into the other, the more one is inclined to the things
in it is going to over-estimate, the more you fear the other, or is afraid of himself, the more
hidden one, yes I have seen it that such people out of pure and Zartfühligkeit Clairvoyance
is the ability harmless pleasure being undermined. "

"But what does this have to do with modesty?"

"Very much! If the dark conditions and processes in the chest so dragged into the light be that man, so to
speak in itself has no more home, where he and his reticent may present, he has gradually but
it will feel like as if he was naked, on pilloried agency. I, for my part I feel my way through the
constant, vigilant understanding of another, and he was the most beloved creatures, made entirely
in the pillory, and I also tell you that me that women who liked to call it misunderstood,
me, me for my part, have always seemed just shameless. Those would be the one. Then are those in
which the modesty to the pathological increases and living in such thin air that them the well
is sensible to disgust. I once had such an unfortunate for the girlfriend; she was the modesty of
nature, but was sometimes formal unveiling of a delusion followed, and by surrendering, she
underwent a compulsion that she was exercising a little, what its true nature was just the opposite.
There was no support, no attitude, and when loved her one day, she denied herself the man in
question because she was convinced that he only loved her body and the soul. Is not that awful?
A single, coarse Misunderstanding of life? "

"Of course, there are women enough in this respect a fatal error and Stock Access have fallen, "I
replied. "The most disastrous mistake, they may commit, but, when they conclude from their kind
of modesty and how to overcome a concept of loyalty, the law for them and need for the man but a
voluntary action. These voluntary again submit to a higher necessity, which is the act of a loving husband,
a Act committed by his culture, his self-control, his sense of beauty depends. The women only
have the shame of sex, and the chastity of a nun and the corruption of a prostitute are only different
effects the same force, similar States with different obstacles. The man is another peculiar
modesty, a supernatural, I would like to mention the shame before God, and he can lose it only
if He loses himself before God. We thus have the spectacle of a constant war two for the reason
and nature to completely dissimilar species of modesty, and during a woman to speak her literally,
she wears or how to make a yields Dress with or drops, the man concealed his, for he is only
a symbol. Never should a woman come up to drag the icon to the reality that such to make a
claim from them. "

"It says - man," cried Faustina!. "I must have very high estimate, dear friend, if not I will
find presumptuous.

Loud and clear speaking this means yet, the love the woman is a reality that the man's an icon.
Or not? "

"Excellent formulated, Faustina."

"Well, fine. I will argue, however, because it leads to infinity. I see the only way much, the daily
experience proves to me that this reality is no backlog and this symbol has no meaning. Nonsense,
nonsense, nothing but nonsense! Best friend, lock me but not a 'for all times in the lumber-room
of the' reality! Remember that even I have loved! Yes, really, really loved! I can not prove
that it was more as an earthly, Earthbound, purpose and time-bound and visual evidence, but
that I can prove that the other, the partners in the game, ventured not to bet that the trouble
worth while can fight to prove I do, that his love - and he loved - only inadequate was not
enough to the point where a symbolic force of the fleeting life holds. But why so high words?
Napoleon on St. Helena did the outrageous statement: Such a villain can not be a man when I think
of him that he is one. Almost every Woman can say the same about their experiences in love,
provided that they are not a animal is blind. According to their method you will probably tell
me, however: you have not understood how to choose. Yes, for God's sake, if not proved, the
I know to be the best, why then hits my heart, why I think and feel then? Either I must therefore
deny my life in the root or all your wisdom to me to sophistry. There's a man who worships me, it
seems to me certain that I gave him a lot, that I was all, am I clear, conspire to him, and since
I have to discover that he was to win only understood to possess, to defend the property to educate,
raise, he is not to capable. Or another case: there is a man of spirit, mind, talent, but he
lives in deep Misery.
 The river road was the one she would take when she was turned out, even if the
willows did look at her as she went by and lay that moist, cool hand of foreboding on her heart.
She had a plan, sprung together like the pieces of a puzzle since she had known he was to send
her away. There was a sawmill over the other side of the mountain and the men's boarding house.
She could get work there. It would be strange if a woman so strong and capable could not get work.

Tenney stirred in his chair, roused himself from his huddled posture and got up. Was he going
to tell her now?

"I guess mebbe I'll poke off to bed," he said, in his commonplace manner of that noon. "I've
got to be up bright an' early."

"Ain't you finished on the knoll?" she ventured.

"Yes, or next to it. But I've got quite a number o' jobs to do round home."

He went up the stairs without a light, carrying his shoes in his hand, and Tira shivered once,
thinking how horrible it was to go so softly in stockinged feet. She was not afraid of him.
Only she did wish his feet would sound. She did not sleep that night. She brought in the cradle,
put the baby in it, and drew it to the window and there she sat beside it, the night through,
her hand on the broken hood. She had chosen a high, straight chair, so that she might be too
uncomfortable to sleep, but she had no temptation to drop off. All her nerves were taut, her
senses broad awake. She was ready, she knew, for anything. The night was peaceful, thrilled
by little sounds of stirring life, and the house, whatever it guessed, had forgotten all about
her. Toward three o'clock she suddenly lost her sense of vitality. She was cold, and so sleepy
now that the thought of bed was an ache of longing. She got up, found herself stiff and heavy-footed,
lifted the child from his cradle and went into the bedroom with him. Under the previous government had a Johnson Work
published, titled: + + Julian the Apostate. The purpose of this book was to prove that the Christians
of the fourteenth century the principle of the reprehensibility of the resistance not followed.
It could easily be from Chrysostom and Jerome lead bodies in one of the spirit of preaching
against the Exclusion Anglican theologians completely different senses were written. Johnson,
however, went further. He sought the odious accusation out again, which Libanius from readily
obvious reasons brought against the soldiers Julian's had, and hinted that the javelin, which
the imperial renegades killed, not by an enemy, but by Rumbold or Ferguson been thrown from
the ranks of the Romans had. This led a fierce polemic cause. Whig and Tory disputants fought fiercely
over a dark place in Gregory of Nazianzus praises a pious bishop who was about to beat someone.
The Whigs claimed that the holy man had wanted to beat the Kaiser, who said Tories he had it apart
more than a captain of the guard. Johnson then wrote a Reply to his attackers, in which he carried
out a very clever parallel between Julian and Jacob, who was then Duke of York went. Julian
had several years made as though he detested the idolatry, while in the hearts of even an idolater
was. Julian had when it suited his interest, occasional respect for the rights Convinced simulating.
Julian had cities, which have been approved than the true religion sincerely were punished
by confiscation of their Municipalfreiheiten. And Julian was of his flatterers The just been mentioned.
Jacob felt insulted. Johnson was a lampooner pursued, found guilty and sentenced to a fine
that he could not pay. He was locked up and therefore it was quite the impression as if his detention
only with his life will end. [115]

[Note 115: See Johnson's memoirs as an introduction to the Folio edition of his autobiography,
his "Julian" and his responses to his opponents. Moreover, Hickes's Jovian + +.]

    [Hugo Speke.] For the cell he occupied in the King's Bench prisons,
    another man sat criminals be studied whose character probably deserves
    to. This was Hugo Speke, a young man from good family, but corrupted
by strange and vulgar character.

His tendency to mischief and dark and crooked ways was almost a pathological obsession. to cause mischief,
without being detected to be, was his business and his pleasure, and he had a rare skill in
it, to use instruments of his honest fanatics to cold-blooded malice. He had means one of his
front men made the attempt, Karl and Jakob to accuse of the crime, have murdered in the Tower
of Essex. On this occasion it was the doings of the Speke's Track come, and although he managed
the largest part of the blame on him infatuated to roll, but he did not like this with impunity.
He was now sitting in prison, but his fortune allowed him to live decently and his imprisonment
was so mild that he and one of his comrades, of a clandestine printing business, was able to
have regular traffic.

Johnson was quite the man, as Speke could need it for his purposes: eager and fearless a learned
and eloquent polemicist, while simple as a child.

It imagined Freundschaftsverhältniß intimate between the two prisoners. Johnson wrote a series bitter
and violent articles which Speke conveyed to the pressure. When the camp of Hounslow was formed,
Speke urged Johnson to write a speech, which the troops to mutiny can irritate. The script
was written and printed at once in many thousands of copies, which were brought to Speke's cell,
to go from here across the country, and especially spread among the soldiers. Such a challenge would
be even a milder government than the then prevailing in England, was excited to have violent
anger. There was a strict Investigation undertaken and a child agent who used to disseminate the
speech been, was saved by the fact that he denounced Johnson, but was not the man himself to save
through denounce Speke's.

[Lawsuit against Johnson.] They made Johnson the process without difficulty and gained his Guilty
explanation.

Julian Johnson, as he was commonly called, was condemned to three times be issued in the pillory
and whipped from Newgate to Tyburn to. The judge, Sir Francis Within's, told the condemned, he
should thank the Fiscal General for his great forbearance, the offense because he was able to treat
it as a treason. "I owe him no thanks "Guilty, Johnson replied fearlessly. "Shall I, whose only
crime is to have defended the church and the laws to say thank you even care that I like Dog
should be whipped, while Popish Scribenten daily with impunity insult the Church and the laws
are allowed to connect? "He spoke with such energy that the judges both than the Kronanwälte
it necessary stopped to defend themselves by insured, they I mention only knew of no such papal writings,
that the prisoner. Immediately he brought some Roman Catholic books and ornaments to the fore,
which at that time with royal grant were sold freely anywhere, read the titles of the books
aloud and threw the Attorney-General a rosary across the table. "And now," he then shouted in a loud
Voice, "I raise this accusation before God, before this court and before the English People.
We will see soon if the Lord does Fiscal General's duty. "

It was decided that Johnson stripped prior to the execution of the punishment of his priesthood
should be.

The prelates, which the administration of the London diocese of the high commission transfer was
demanded from him in the Chapter House of St. Paul's Cathedral. His behavior During the ceremony
a deep impression on all present. When his holy Gown was stripped, he exclaimed: "You take me my
coat, because I have tried You get the yours. "The only thing to afflict him with the whole ceremony
really seemed that the moment was when he was pulled the Bible out of hand. He struggled weakly
give away the holy book, kissed it and burst into tears. "The hopes which I told him owe, "he said,"
You can not rob me. "It has been some attempts made to the Adoption of the whip punishment
to obtain for him. A Roman Catholic priest offered for Sum of two hundred pounds to his intercession.
The money would be applied and the priest did his best, but in vain. "Mr. Johnson, "said the
King," has the courage of a Martyr, and he should therefore be one. "William III. said some
years later by one of the most toxic and most intrepid Jacobites: "He has made a martyr be,
and I have decided to thwart his hopes. "These two statements would be sufficient alone to
explain the large difference in the fate of the two princes.

Appeared for the flogging appointed day. We used a Nine-Tailed Cat and the condemned received with
the same three hundred and seventeen blows a straight face to tarry.

He said afterwards, the pain was terrible, but he had while He was drawn away from the cart,
the patient recalls, with the cross of Calvary once the was carried up, and that thought had
strengthened him so that he, if he does not fear had, his conduct could be interpreted as idle boasting,
with as solid and joyful Voice as if he was surrounded by his parish territory find a psalm would have
sung. One can not refrain from the desire that such heroism with less passion and intolerance should
have been paired. [116]

[Note 116: Johnson's biography as an introduction to his works; + Secret History of the happy revolution
+, by Hugo Speke; + + Collection of State Trials; Citters 23 Nov.
(3rd Dec).

    1686th Citters gives the best representation of the process. I
    a bow saw, who confirmed his story.]
    
    [Zeal of the Anglican clergy against the papacy.] The Anglican clergy
    Johnson found no sympathy.

He had tried to justify the riots, he had even an endorsement of the King murder indicated, and so
much they were also insulted and irritated, but they still held fast to the doctrine of non-resistance.
But she saw with pain and anxiety the progress of religion, which they regarded as a harmful superstition,
and while they gave up any thought of a defense of their faith by the sword, attacked them manfully
different kind of weapons

to preach [pamphlets.] against the errors of Popery, they regarded
now as a duty and an honor.

The London clergy, who at that time in respect of Talent and influence was at the top, gave an
example of their less educated Official brothers in the whole country was imitated bravely.
Had only a few brave men are that freedom taken out, they would probably immediately before
the ecclesiastical commission been cited to be, but it was hardly possible to punish a crime,
every Sunday from Thousands of clerics were committed by Barwick to Penzance. The presses of London,
Oxford and Cambridge were resting for a moment. The law, which the literary phenomena submitted
a censure was not a serious obstacle to the efforts of the Protestant Polemicist because it
contained a Ausnahmsbestimmung in favor of the two universities and allowed the publication of theological
works, the Archbishop of Canterbury had approved. It was therefore not within the power of the
government, the defenders of the established church Silent halt. They formed a numerous, brave
and well-ordered lattice of warriors and there were among them excellent speakers, experienced
dialectics and in the writings of the Fathers, as in all parts of church history thoroughly versed scholars.
Some of them returned later the terrible weapons that they face the common enemy had swung against
each other and brought their violent disputes and their insolent triumph shame on the Church,
which they had saved. Currently but they formed a cohesive set phalanx. First and foremost,
we saw a number staunch and skillful veterans: Tillotson, Stillingfleet, Sherlock, Prideaux,
Whitby, Patrick, Tenison, and Wake. The highest bachelors in philosophy and are planning to target
was the diaconate, formed the rear guard. Among the fighters, which the Cambridge area set, stood
out one of the greatest pupil of the great Newton, Henry Wharton, a few months earlier had been
the best debater of his Jahrescursus and its soon it successfully finished early death from
all parties as an irreplaceable loss for the Science was lamented. [117] Oxford was no less proud
of a young man of his great talent in this contest for the first time tried and after forty
eventful Years troubled Church and State: Francis Atterbury. From such men were each Dispute
between the Papists and the Protestants soon in a popular style that any boy and woman could
understand, now with the most acute logic, now with a tremendous Effort of learning discussed.
The pretensions of the Holy See, the authority of the Traditions, purgatory, transubstantiation,
the sacrifice of the Mass, the worship of the Host, the refusal of the cup to laymen, confession,
penance, indulgences, the last rites, the invocation of saints, the worship of images, the celibacy
of the clergy, monastic vows, the application of the people do not understand the language of public
worship, the corruption of the Roman court, the history of the Reformation, the character of the main
Reformers: all this was discussed in detail. A large number of absurd legends of miracles,
saints and relics, which causes have been translated from Italian and as evidence of the deception
Pfaff, who fooled the greatest part of Christendom, published. Of the writings which by Anglican
clergy during the short reign of James II appeared are probably many have been lost. Those of which are
in our great libraries have copies, are a form of mass close to twenty thousand Pages. [118]

[Note
117: See the preface to Henry Wharton's posthumous sermons.]

[Note 118: This is what I can from my own research . Confirm In the British Museum is an excellent
Collection. Birch tells us in his biography of Tillotson, that the Archbishop Wake had not even
been able, a complete catalog of all published in these proceedings Shall be prepared.]

[The Roman Catholic theologians defeated.] The Roman Catholics were not without Overcome resistance.
One of them, named Henry Hill, was the printing of the Royal House
and the court orchestra and appointed by the king at the head of a
large Officin in London been made, which produced hundreds of theological
treatises.

    Obadiah Walker's Press, Oxford was not less active. For
    these institutions, however, went out of some bad Translations of
the magnificent works of Bossuet's not entirely clear what only the
lowest value had would have.

    No intelligent and truth-loving Catholic could deny the fact that
    the Champion of his Church in every talent and knowledge were completely
    defeated. The most of them from the other side would hardly have been
    given the third rank. Many of they knew what to say they did not
    want to say in the right way. They were due to their faith from
    the English schools and universities and had been excluded to the
Accession of James as England never a pleasant or even safe stay considered.

Therefore, they had spent the greater part of her life on the Continent and almost completely
forgotten their mother tongue. When they preached, aroused her foreign accent the mocking smile
of the audience and their possible spelling of the washing women. Your Language disfigured by
foreign phrases, and they wanted to for once his eloquence, so received it as best they could
after the style that the Italian academies, the rhetoric reached the highest level of corruption had
was beautiful. Disputants, with which Such disadvantages would have had to contend, even if they
have truth on their side would have had, hardly been able to offer men the tip, the style by
simple purity and elegance of highly distinguished. [119]

The position of England in 1686 can not be described better than in the words of French ambassador.
"Discontent," he wrote, "is large and generally, but the Fear of worse evils holds back any that
has something to lose. The King openly expresses his joy that he is able to lead bold strokes to.
He likes to hear when he congratulated them. He has spoken to me about it and assured me that
he will not back down. "[120]

[Note 119: Cardinal Howard spoke out in Rome against Burnet very strict on this subject from.
(Burnet I. 662nd) A interesting site with similar content can also be found in a Despatch of Barillon,
but I have lost the evidence.

One of the Catholic clergy, which in this part polemic attended a Jesuit, named Andreas Pulton,
the Oliver in his History of the order for a man of excellent Qualifications
declared himself an openly admits his shortcomings: "There AP has
spent eighteen years outside his native country, he does to perfection
in the English language and spelling are not yet eligible.

"His spelling is pathetic, in fact, in one of his letters he writes + Wright + for + write +
and + would + + + for woed. He called for Tenison on, to Latin diputiren with him, that they
with the same Weapons fighting. In a contemporary satire, entitled + "The Advice "+ find the
following two lines:

Let Pulton in Busby's school to give the rod, He is no longer in print
makes a fool of.

    
    
    Another one Roman Catholic, named William Clench, wrote a Treatise
    on the supremacy of the pope and dedicated it to the Queen in Italian.

    The following sample of his style may suffice: + consorte "O del
    marito Sagro fortunata! O dolce alleviamento d'affari alti!
    

"I see," said Nan. "Yes, you must walk. I should want to, myself. But in the morning, Tira--mayn't
I come over after you?"

Tira considered, her eyes on Nan's hand and her own clasped, lying on Nan's knee.

"Yes," she said, "you better. You come to the Donnyhills'. Yes, you come."

Then she considered again, and began one of her slow, difficult meanderings, where the quickness
of her heart and brain ran ahead of her tongue's art to interpret them.

"Seems if you knew," she said, "'most everything that's gone on."

"Yes," said Nan, at a venture, and yet truthfully. "I think I've known."

"An' now it's come to an end," said Tira. "Or if it ain't, it's on the way to it. An' seems
if you ought to know the whole. You're tough enough to stan' up to 't."

"Yes," said Nan simply, "I'm very tough. Nothing's going to hurt me."

"I bring," said Tira, still with difficulty, "bad luck. Some folks do. Folks set by me a spell.
Then they stop. They think I'm goin' to be suthin' they'd do 'most anything for, an' then they
seem to feel as if I wa'n't. An' there's no"--she sought for a word here and came out blunderingly--"no
peace nor rest. Nor for me, neither. I ain't had peace nor rest. Except"--here she paused again
and ended gravely, and not this time inadequately--"in him."

Nan understood. She was grave in her answer.

"Mr. Raven," she said. "I know."

The color flowed into Tira's face and she looked at Nan, with her jewel-like eyes.

"I'm goin' to tell you," she said, "the whole story. He's like--my God. Anything I could do
for him--'twould be nothin'. Anything he asked of me----"

Here the light faded out from her face and the flesh of it had that curious look of curdling,
as if with muscular horror.

"But," she said, "here 'tis. S'pose it come on him, that--that"--she threw back her head in
despair over her poverty of words--"s'pose it made him like----Oh, I tell you there's suthin'
queer about me, there's suthin' wrong. It ain't that I look different from other folks. I ain't
ever meant to act different. I swear to my God I've acted like a decent woman--an' a decent
girl--an' when I was little I never even had a thought! You tell me. You'd know."

Nan felt the hand on hers tighten. She put her other hand over it, and thought. What could
she tell her? These matters were too deep in the causes of things for man to have caught a
glimpse of them, except now and then darkly through some poet's mind. There was one word that,
to a poet's mind only, might have illumined the darkness if only for an instant: beauty, that
was the word. Mankind could not look on beauty such as this and not desire, for a moment at
least, to possess it utterly. But these things belonged to the dark places where brute nature
wrought her spells. And there were other beauties, other enchantments, and of these, what could
Tira, her mind moulded by the brutal influences of her life, see, except as dreams of her own,
not as having wholesome correspondences in the mind of man? Could she guess what the appeal
of her loveliness would meet in Raven? Fastidious standards, pride of honor, pride of race.
The jungle, in itself, was as hateful to him as it could be to her, who had been dragged through
its fetid undergrowth with a violence that had cut indelible marks into her. But for him, Raven--as
Nan believed she knew him and as Tira, her striving mind obscured by the veil of her remembered
past, could never know--hadn't the jungle something for him beyond choking savors and fierce
destructive poisons? Didn't he know that even that miasma nourished wholesome virtues, strength,
abstinence, infinite compassion, if you crossed the horrible expanse to the clear air beyond?
Tira, fair as her mind was in its untouched integrity, hated the jungle, but it was a part
of the wrong life had done her that she could not, highly as she worshiped Raven, keep herself
from seeing his kinship to the natural earth as Martin's kinship with it, Tenney's--all the
beasts who had desired her. How to tell her that? How to tell her that although it was most
loving of her to save Raven from the curse she believed to be upon all men, he would save himself?

"They think," Tira continued, in a voice rough enough to hurt the ear, "there's suthin' about
me--different. An' they feel as if, if they owned me body an' soul they'd be--I dunno what
they'd be."

"They think they'd be gods," Nan's mind supplied. "You are beauty, Tira. You are the cup. They
think if they could drink of you they would never thirst again."

"An' now," said Tira, "s'pose a man like--like him--s'pose it looked to him some minute he
never'd so much as expected--s'pose it looked to him as if he'd be made if he owned me body
an' soul. Well! That's easy, you say. If I love him, what's my body an' what's my soul? Offer
'em to him, quick. An' wouldn't I, if that was all? Wouldn't I?"

She called it sharply, in an angry challenge.

"Yes," said Nan quietly, "I know you would."

"Well," said Tira, "what then? It wouldn't be any more"--her eyes, glancing here and there
in troubled search for help in her impossible task of speech--"like them daffies over there.
'Twould be--mud."

This, though it did not satisfy her, carried an ineffable loathing, the loathing that had its
seed in the pathway of her difficult life. The abstention of
the vote has an undeniable right of every citizen, above all, then, is but if no one is able
to safely free to express his opinion, if everyone is must be afraid of saying no, he must at
least remain the freedom to not say yes. All this is nothing but a farce, "he added with a shrug.

"Here
is the speech of any farce," Mr Ollivier called in vivid excitement,
"clearly and openly, consideration will be made to the people.

The only action the Government is directed only to lead to any point where he clearly asked question
just so clearly answer. "

"The statement that the contents of which have just communicated to
us in general," said Mr. Jules Favre quietly and slowly, "is the Cabinet's
liberal program unfaithful - The suspicion is therefore well justified.

May the Lord minister, "he said with a slight Bow to Ollivier, "it my honest, the other officers
are still voting fake. "

"That no one will dare," cried Mr. Ollivier violently agitated, "the Minister can probably trust demand
that the measures to which they profess to be honest, even on the
part of their subordinates to ensure an equally honest and rigorous
implementation be able be.

Besides, "he continued," comes the Cabinet and its existence in the whole thing not at all in question.
It is simply a sanction of the constitutional provisions, have approved of what the ministers
and representatives of the country already. The chambers themselves are therefore also implicated,
as the ministry. "

"These are quibbles," Picard said indignantly, "Government is government, it is sad enough that
one is not able, to the ministry, which introduced itself with liberal
reforms, to give permanent trust.

"

"It does me very sorry," Mr Ollivier said, trembling with angry zeal,
"They give us Your trust, you give it to us, that's your thing - that
can not stop us, to do our duty, be convinced that your opinion is
indifferent.

"

A dull murmur was heard among the group.

"What a tone of the conversation," said Jules Favre, "one would think, here in to find the
company of educated people. "

"The minister himself is not sure about the meaning of his words became clear," said Mr. Picard
cold and scornful, "the concerns for the spread of the plebiscite
have, as seems his usually eminent ability to weigh the phrases correctly,
paralyzed.

"

Mr. Ollivier himself seemed a little shocked to be on his violent outburst.

"I'm at my words very clear," he said, "and did the same," he added Bowing slightly, adding,
"certainly does not intend to personal injury. I just want to say that a government which
itself is perfectly clear about what they after detected mature consideration its duty, has
not let this mistake make must determine whether their decisions and actions in one way or the other
party approvingly or find disapproving assessment, and I can only repeat that the government for
their Duty has to occur with all his energy to the system of abstention. The Empire and do not
want the emperor in question, "he added firmly," as noted here just now was the only question
is whether it is good, the empire of authority and personal Regiment in a liberal empire transformed;
that the enemies of the empire at all the latter do not, I understand, "he added, with sharp
emphasis," but whether they to provide a service to his country, if they do not their party
considerations above, left as the good of the nation, I will, gentlemen,
their own conscience.

"And with a short bow he turned and left the room.

A portion of the deputies returned to the room where you about the individual paragraphs new
press law debattirte. Most, however, withdrew from this debate präoccupirt how they were by the whole
political situation, they left the palace of the Legislative Body
to in private meetings with party leaders over the resolutions to
be taken to deliberate.

Mr. Ollivier walked slowly through the corridors of the Palais and
got into his very simple and inconspicuous Coupé by shouting in the
dark livery dressed coachman

"According to the Tuileries."

Shortly afterwards he went into the inner courtyard of the old royal palace, he stopped before
the large entrance, over which the spears carried by tent spread out.

He found the service Thünder Ordonnanzofficier in the hall, this led him once in the Cabinet of
the emperor.

Napoleon III was fresher than usual, but hung his face with an expression
of suffering and physical pain, limp, but in his view was a certain
amount to the last days of his youthful energy reminiscent felt when
he and his slow, somewhat uncertain response to the Minister opposed,
which it acquired, the control of the ship of state, which had so
long led the firm hand of the Lord Rouher, by the cliffs of concern
various innovations leading to.

"I wished to speak before then, my dear Mr. Ollivier," said the Emperor, as he gave a binding greeting
the United keeper's hand, "before the whole I Minister Rath hear need to be taken in how the
events so that we the great Aim to reach the public's trust in the government fully restore - Which
has already grown so much again, "he added with a slight inclination
of the head adding, "since you me with your advice be to the side."

"That makes me very happy to trust your Majesty," replied Mr. Ollivier, by the chair designated
by the Emperor him settled. "If public opinion to me meets with some sympathetic feeling, "he added with
a self-satisfied Smile on, "so I get my job very much facilitated
by the generous openness, support with which your majesty me.

"

The emperor sent a curious glance from his fast and entschleiernden
then in deadpan indifference sinking back in his eyes as he lets his
hand the painting a mustache instinctively hid his lips moving smile.

"So you think," he said, "that the plebiscite would be favorable to the government?"

"Anyway," said Mr. Ollivier, "the mood is generally very little satisfaction with the behavior
of the irreconcilable opposition. They want peace for the business, we want protection herandrängende
against the social movement, and it is to the liberal Empire, the more delivered by enthusiastic warmth
of his voice, as it is the freedom with the power and order combined.

The opposition feels that, and her ambition is no more after that, a negative to achieve the vote Volkscomitien,
but rather to impose a massive abstention, an endeavor in which they would be greatly assisted by the
indolence of the masses.

"Your Majesty will approve certain that we applied to the most energetic manner the prefect
have, above all, particularly in rural districts against the abstention from voting to act.
"

"Certainly, certainly," said the emperor scattered like, "one has to use all means to these men
to show the opposition that the people of France reject it and set me behind is, - yet, "he continued,"
as it is with Daru and buffet? Insist that the Chambers are first asked about the plebiscite and it
results in a Cabinetsfrage ? Make "

"I think, Sire," said Mr. Ollivier, "that my two colleagues are inclined to to communicate about
it, they do like their powers under the liberal empire and Your Majesty's enlightened and glorious
leadership dedicated to the welfare of France. However, keep they consider it impossible, utterly
depart from the principle that it with full conviction represented. It can, perhaps, "he continued,"
find a way to essentially the Opinions your Majesty to maintain, and yet the ministers, who
at the various Parties to have confidence conserviren. One might intend to carry out a plebiscite,
without subjecting themselves to a constitutional decision of the
Land, the Corps legislative communicate simply by a message carried
whereupon a reply address would.

In this way, could unite the different views, perhaps, and It is
true that in the plebiscite could be of importance to the people Show
that the government and the regular representation on the important
constitutional Act are in full agreement.

"

The emperor bowed his head and stroked several times thoughtfully over his forehead.

"This would really," he said, "the plebiscite the true tip broken off, and I am I must tell you frankly,
not very inclined to go down this route. Hold Them, "he said, Mr. Ollivier suddenly full and
sharp looking," this way in principle with fit, or it would only
suggest to the people of conserviren Minister?

"

"The ministers have, as I had the honor of your Majesty's notice," continued the Grand Keeper
of the Seals continued, "some degree of confidence, her resignation may make an unfavorable impression.
This is essentially the reason wherefore I would like to find a compromise. "

"My dear Mr. Ollivier," said the emperor, he leaned over a little, "according to my conviction
is based trust, which the Department enjoys among the population, neither Mr. Buffet, still
on the Count Daru, nor on any of the other persons which currently form the Cabinet, therefore,
only to respect and sympathy, which one will meet that, you are the pillars on which my government
is currently rests. Respect the front of your character, the admiration for your great talents
form a Halo around you, its rays fall on the other ministers, but they are also well fall on each other,
who will have the good fortune to work with you to a cabinet to form. The consideration, then,
"he continued," on the trust that these gentlemen in the land , And enjoy the personal influence which
they can practice would determine me never able to depart from a principle recognized as correct,
only for their people to . Conserviren Something different, "he continued thoughtfully, by the
corner of his almost closed A quick eye, sharp observational eye on Mr. Ollivier flew over, "something
else It is of course with its replacement in the shops. Breakfast is an excellent Minister
of Finance, It will not be easy, someone to replace him - Ségris perhaps - would have to agree
with him - but even more difficult is the matter at Daru. Where can you so quickly find a foreign
minister? In particular, as it would be a matter of to modify the position a little, which we
assumed the council and Rome against have. The ministers of foreign affairs, "he continued, apparently
deeper sinking in thought, "do not grow from the earth.

Yes, if, "he said, his eyes inquiringly at Mr. Ollivier directing
- "if it were possible that a human force, the Last wore alone, which
has three shoulders are not easily divided, it would quickly to find
a remedy.

"

He leaned his head as if deep in thought on the supported arm on his
knee.

His face twitched Ollivier in lively motion, his eyes seemed a suddenly to follow him emerging
picture, a gleam lit up his features and high satisfaction rapidly with breathless voice he said:

"Your
Majesty, my - Your Majesty have any idea about the department's external Office? "

"I'm afraid," said Napoleon, as he shrugged his shoulders as in painful resignation, "That the idea which
I had in a moment as possible, the desire that I have a Cherished moment, impossible. I had
thought, arrange it how quickly all this could, if you, my dear Mr. Ollivier, could I make the sacrifice
for some time to lead the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I know, "he continued," the representation,
just what this ministry is more connected with others, would you
annoying be.

The burden of the work itself would your mind be so used to the action too much. Let us leave
the matter, it is perhaps better to seek a compromise, which We replaced the Count Daru and
Mr. Buffet. "

Mr. Ollivier had a certain restlessness, his hands moving in a slight tremor, the end the remarks
of the emperor expected. When Napoleon was silent, he said quickly, using his Glasses pushed
cope:

"Ew. Majesty may rest assured that I for your service and for the good of France no sacrifice is
too great. Probably reluctant to my simple bourgeois sense, "he said," the large and diverse representation,
well I want to live for my family and for my health a little leisure
to win, but I may touch but not for a moment if the service of your
Majesty, if the interests of France, requiring this new Last to take
upon myself, and I dare not yet over-estimation of the force, they
contribute to.

I'm used to the activity, sire, and will at least try, your Majesty to give this proof of my
devotion. "

Napoleon defeated by such an unexpectedly favorable turn of events and surprised the Hands together.

"But,
my dear Mr. Ollivier," he said, "then we are indeed helpful, then we've no necessary, nor to seek
a compromise, if Count Daru really going on today and ready are to take his place. So I find
myself not only in no embarrassment, but I will even improve my situation much, because you
will permit me to remark, that every portfolio in any one, and he would be the cleverest and
most effective, so may be in good hands, as in your hands. If you were really ready, then, to
the to connect point of the Count Daru, and if your strength to endure such an excessive burden
on Is able, then we would, I believe, completely agree on the course,
we the Events have to give.

"

"If your majesty," said Mr. Ollivier, "would have the grace to me
the portfolio of Foreign transfer, so I do not see no reason why the
issue of plebiscite no one principle perfectly appropriate way should
be sought.

"

"Well," said the emperor, he rose, "I can see, we understand perfectly
- what Joy it will make me to discuss with you the questions of foreign
policy and from Their so-enlightened mind always new ideas to the
judging to take it.

"

Mr. Ollivier bowed with a happy contented smile.

"I think we will fully agree," the emperor said lightly with an indifferent Tone, "that the
Roman question to the council with respect to the attitude which the Count Daru in recently
has taken, must be modified.

The Catholic Church and the Clergy is a very powerful factor in France, whose free and unrestrained
assistance we We need to save. And besides, "he continued," reluctant even to my religious
feeling a cooling of the relationship between my Government and the Holy See. "

"Your Majesty, are absolutely right," Mr Ollivier said quickly, "France is a good Catholic. I am,
too, "he added," and the consideration for the feelings of the people as well as to the influence
of the clergy enjoin us a very prudent position to take over Rome, and to do nothing to affect the
relations with the Curia would like some murky.

I'm afraid, "said He continued, "the Count Daru has let in this case lead to very little of
doctrines and has moved to the little concrete conditions into consideration, also may want his
Relations with Guizot, the Protestant is decided, not without influence
on his views have stopped.

"

The emperor, who had listened very carefully to the words of his minister suggested that the
slightly by hand to his forehead as if he particularly by the utterances of Mr. Ollivier was
much struck.

"Indeed, my dear minister," he said, "You bring me there on a thought
that Some enlighten me, - you should, I believe, are right, it is
all the more necessary, our position against Rome to modify, for Protestant
beliefs can nevertheless certainly not the policy of France, this
guide so deeply Catholic country.

What a Joy it is yet, "he said, deep sigh," to find so complete understanding
and to work with a man who always opens us to new viewpoints.

"

He moved the bell.

"If the gentlemen assembled ministers," he asked the incoming valet.

'Yes, Your Majesty. "

"Do you expect me to a moment in Conferenzzimmer with the other gentlemen,"
said the emperor to Mr. Ollivier, "I'll follow you at once - we know
what we have to do have.

"

The United keeper bowed with consenting face and left the cabinet of the emperor.

"He will do what I want," said Napoleon, looking after him, smiling,
"and I will have excellent position to take any initiative, not my
opinion - but that of Mr. Ollivier, penetrating, and it does not play
by the personal speak from the regiment and Autocrats can influence.

"

He went to a small cupboard, took out a bottle with a reddish liquid,
counted in a glass of water, which gave him the valet, a number of
drops and drank then quickly the content that seemed to revive him
almost immediately beneficial.

"So," he said with a deep breath, "that is me for an hour again force and elasticity . Give Now
I want to listen to my Minister. "

And with a little livelier response firmer than before he went by quickly open Folding-doors after
Conferenzzimmer, a large bright room, in the middle of a round green table surrounded by easy chairs
was also dark green.

In this room, the ministers were already assembled, wearing of all the, like the emperor, black
morning suits and bowed deeply at the entrance of the sovereign.

There was next to Ollivier, who, excited, beaming but inner satisfaction, behind his Chair was,
Mr de Chevandier Valdrome with his somewhat Cavaliers expression, the Count Daru with its
cold, somewhat suspicious glance, Mr. Buffett, the finance minister, a bureaucrats Appearance with stubborn
Doctrinaires expression, Mr. Ségris, the minister of education, a little of the exterior reminiscent
of a professor, then the Marquis of Talhouet, the Minister public
works, a beautiful, elegant appearance, despite his age of almost
Fifty years ago, still youthful and fresh, the real grand old French
Seigneur - Mr Maurice Richart, for which his friend Ollivier created
the Department of Fine Arts had a good-natured, carefree playboy,
then Minister of War, Marshal Leboeuf, a militaires final appearance,
the full, a little bloated and regular face had by the big beard on
the upper lip and chin, a slightly menacing expression, However, by
the careless and superficial view of the somewhat prominent eyes been
diluted again and at last the Admiral Rigault de Genouilly whose fine
and intelligent Face with an expression of reflection is always a
closed unspoken ulterior motives seemed to hide.

The emperor sat on his chair in the middle of the table, and the Ministers
place around him, Mr. Ollivier at his right hand, Count Daru to his
left, and the rest against the Minister of War and Navy to the emperor,
in order of rank.

"I have called you, gentlemen, ministers," said the Emperor with a calm, almost expressionless
Voice, as he took one of the pencils on the table and some indeterminate Lines on the sheet
of paper lying in front of him ready recorded, "I have called you to you to ask the question of the plebiscite,
of which I already individually with each of you conferirt have, now common custom to discuss
again and then about a definite to take decision. The point is, the new institution, which I
the Empire give to have believed and whose attachment you all so ready to my hand have given, again
by a vote of the entire nation, on which even the Empire itself and
his former constitutional due to sanction leave. If Tira had wanted the baby buried over there by her mother, wouldn't
she want to be buried there herself?

"Very well, then. We'll arrange things. The day after"--he could not bring himself to put the
bare ceremonial that would see her out of the world into the words familiar to the country
ear--"that will be the day. We shall go over. We'll take you with us."

"No," said Tenney, "you needn't trouble yourselves. I sha'n't go over there. Nor I sha'n't
keep nobody else from goin'."

By this Raven judged he meant that he would not interfere with their seeing Tira out of the
world in their own way. The man had repudiated her. It was a relief. It seemed to leave her,
in her great freedom, the more free.

"Come down now," said Raven, "to my house. We'll have something to eat."

That was all he could think of, to keep the stricken creature within sound of human voices.

"I ain't hungry," said Tenney. "An' if I was"--here he stopped an instant and a spasm shot
across his face--"she left me cooked up." 

OLD MAN:

All of me does not sound so new and surprised me as much as you accept seem. I even think your
a little wordy tirade is to be replaced completely if we say you
give yourself completely to the demands of the present. In a fever of unrest, they formed plans to plans to write them all again
be discarded.

"There is only one way," she cried at last with a firm resolute tone,
"in light of all this to get dark. I will talk to my father. If he had a wish, in this infinitude of desolation,
it was that he might never open them again on the dark defiles of this world. It was dusk when
he did open them, and for a minute he had difficulty in remembering why he was there and the
blow that had struck him down to such a quivering apprehension of what was coming next. Then,
before he quite found out, he learned what had waked him. There was a voice outside--Tenney's
voice, only not Tenney's as he had known it--whimpering, begging in a wild humility:

"You there? You let me in. You there? For God's sake let me in."

Raven was at once clearly awake. His mind was, after its interlude of darkness, ready. He got
up, and opened the door.

"Come in," he said. "Yes, leave the door open. I've been asleep. It's close in here."

Tenney came in, not so much limping as stumbling. He seemed to be shorter in stature. His head
was bent, his body had sagged together as if not a muscle of it had strength to do its part.
Raven pulled forward a chair, and he sank into it.

"What do you s'pose," he began--and the voice was so nearly a whimper that Raven was not surprised
to see tears on his cheeks--"what do you s'pose I wanted my gun for? To use on you? Or him?
No. On me. But I don't know now as I've got the strength to use it. I'm done."

This was his remorse for the past as he had made it, and Raven had no triumph in it, only a
sickness of distaste for the man's suffering and a frank hatred of having to meet it with him.

"You know," said Tenney, looking up at him, sharply now, as if to ascertain how much he knew,
"she didn't do it. The baby wa'n't overlaid. God! did anybody believe she could do a thing
like that? She slep' like a cat for fear suthin' would happen to him."

"What," asked Raven, in horror of what he felt was coming, and yet obliged to hear, "what did
happen to him?"

Tenney stretched out his hands. He was looking at them, not at Raven.

"I can't git it out o' my head," he continued, in a broken whisper, "there's suthin' on 'em.
You don't see nothin', do you? They look to me----"

There he stopped, and Raven was glad he did not venture the word. What had Raven to say to
him? There seemed not to be anything in the language of man, to say. But Tenney came alive.
He was shaking with a great eagerness.

"I tell you," he said, "a man don't know what to do. That's my opinion. "

"Gentleness! The valuable gift to remain silent, if one is entered, and only sigh, when the
heart breaks, which is called meekness, gentleness, the men who call. And because they them
is the most convenient property in woman, so she is praised. But whoever has eyes and sees, and
sees much, and blood, which heats up and a fist, the clump must can
not be soft.

"

"Gently, Faustina. They remind me a little of the boy, whom you asked who bravely was hot, and said
it, be brave, who does not run away. Meekness is not Compliance, not submission, not silence.
Meekness is the rest of the general to compare, or the prudence of the artist. It is not a weakness,
but a Force. She is in love the real strength of the woman, her weapon as her guardian. You is not tied
to a certain temperament, they can, the choleric, the melancholic they can be denied. In any action
or inaction, it expresses itself: in the joy of fear in sorrow and in pain, eye and crotch. It is
almost a rhythm of life. The smile of the gentle wife is irresistible, the gentle lady is
never ugly. Now of course, the real sweetness is almost as rare as the love, and unfortunately we have
to ascertaining numerical, that it is becoming increasingly rare, the more grows the excitability
of the nerves, the more the women know about love and about love, and the less they feel love.
For the love of women is mainly due to an elemental, placed on a unconscious. Since there are
women's rights and women's jobs, it is corporations and organized meetings. It likes a lot
Useful result, but for the gentleness is to fear everything. Never have the difference observed
between the taste of a pear, which comes fresh from the tree, and none, the others already
in many pears was located in the attic? Such a difference exists between the woman as an individual
and the woman, who operated social. "

"You may indeed be right," said Faustina. "But the pear tree, many of pears. If pears therefore
wait to wander in the sweet tooth to eat the most? The rest can wait, they have to rot and fall
into the grass, how? To the gentleness sake. Thank you. We do not have enough users, we poor
pears to be accommodated and we must . Seek You want us in, do you want us angelic, you will, that
each for a Messiah save, but you, you want to do without anything, no lust denied the satisfaction
no appetite for the relief. And the Messiah, which occurs finally with us, either a silly Fant, who
do not know what he holds in his hands and blind youth noise fling, or a critical gentleman
who toddles again when the bulb has a stain. "

"That's probably true, Faustina, practically speaking, it is true, and that you have reason, you
to protect themselves, only a fool to remain hidden. However, a higher pinnacle considered,
things are different. Nature does not want her to come earlier. She wants not that their most sacred
law, the law of selection, is overturned, and if it still happens, she takes revenge by bringing forth
creatures cope with life. Do you know for example, that our rules of the game-bred and resilience
of the game, particularly of the noble game, considerable demolition to do? We have women who
are forced to call to take the job, without pathos they do, earn their bread, others with intelligence
and ingenuity at work to alleviate social distress. Who would have no objection to that? The
fate of the individual will always inspire me to participate, or if there is a Nähmamsell is
a princess; mass aspirations but when the direct passion of the experience , Of course, be without
me cold. The nature of women indicated more than that of the man on Separation, and I've always
found that the nobler nature of the woman only by virtue of this separation preserved, and that it had
for the perfection of the breed can not pay for expensive enough. "

"And if that were the case," said Faustina, "which would help it? Is then the woman is not
always compliant the best, where the man gives the example of noble
initiative?

But what avails the nature of what even God will help the law of
selection, if it is contrary to the law of inertia?

"

"The inertia ... Even before you have used the word.

They said inertia of the heart. "

Yes. Inertia of the heart. "

"Inertia of the heart is one of the seven deadly sins, as far as I know."

"She is the only mortal sin, there is."

"So you hide behind a large sense, something like an idea."

"A lot of sense because you are right, a painful sense. The good that I want, this I do not,
but the evil I do not want is what I do, says a letter from the Paul to the Romans. There is a recognition:
the feeling defies identification, insisting on the wrong Way, or there is a feeling, a great,
a true, and yet, it can be deceiving, it can get confused by talk and by thinking. The result of inertia
of the heart, and is itself still deeper, harder, darker, more guilty. There was passage of time,
where people their instincts were more submissive, barbaric, warlike, by and large a Thing,
asked at a target time. Because of inertia of the heart was a sin equal to others are, like greed
or envy or greed. Today, man is held accountable Today, everyone is responsible. You said it yourself,
not the religion, Heaven and hell he can make an excuse and evasion, in his heart he must be
fate . Search Since inertia is the cardinal sin of the heart and how it is now, this sin is
to all of us as storm load. Ask for examples? Where do I start? where to end? , Passing when the voice of the
mind to stay warned, stay, if it demands that I go; close your eyes when it is seen to be silent,
and when it is necessary to take sides; judge and condemn, though much depends on it to be silent
and to exercise clemency, the pure Mind numb, the unclean to incite false fact, the purposes
do where there are, for justice seek and forget the love, love to claim, without giving them,
and want to enjoy not pay; speak of God and feed the devil inside, ideals and a raise poor debtor
quoted in court, and revel in music and poetry from the little man duties take to flight, friendship
and praise deny that friend, a philosopher and Servants abuse, the genius of desire and if
he shows him and revile the mud drag, all this, forget all this, all this knowledge and not-doing
is inertia of the heart. Oh, how beautiful is the heart! how much capable! how much it can! And
love, the heart of the heart, as it is neglected, abused, raped and trampled! How walled are
all heart, as each may be a little betrayed, and how quickly and readily the the other! We are
talking about love, love, and where is the love? A symbol be, a rare phenomenon, but I would have
seen it, I want it! Show me a love of fans, please show me a prodigal of love! The love of the
I know, was always just a tender plant, it endured the storms of life do not hidden from the
sun and crawled into labyrinthine labyrinthine depths, detached from the world, the night faces.
I once asked a man if his mistress is beautiful. You are, that he could not claim, he said,
but everything was characteristic of her. Why, I said to him, you are a very spiffy fellow.
Characteristic! A cute word! One would have it in iron Letters pour and nail to the pillory of the
century.

Everything is so characteristic as unique, so special, so artificial,
so split up into small, into the spiritual diluted so shy, so timid,
so knowing and so uncertain in any sense.

What is there for God sake, to hope, my friend!

What a full heart can still hope for you? There is only one; There is only one: be modest. "

"There
is a second, Faustina, a larger one."

"What's that?"

"The joy of the phenomenon. Lamentably, however, is the pressure under which we live, the strangely
fatalistic meaning grass. The existence is always illusory, its short duration is always painfully
aware, and he who seeks meaning and love, may well in unmeasured Despair fall if it does not
save this one: to look. The show ends unraveled the world, it is unraveling every dark and he
puts his hand on graves and they are to altars, he walks through snow and he feels the spring,
he is abandoned by his friends and he lives with humanity. That things are there, that I own
that Creator and created are mine, that life, as far as possible and felt, in me infected, that
there is nothing, not the least thought and felt outside the circle
of life, and the monster that I like the inconspicuous, High and Low,
the procession of the Emperor and the passing flutter of a butterfly,
that my beauty and ugliness, love and Hatred, self-alienation and
inertia of the heart, that I all this is to appearance, the can save
me.

"

"With such a quietism I will not reassure me," Faustina said gloomily.

"If the quietism would, then the world would no longer capable of its orbit around the sun
to run. Believe it not, Faustina, that I am free to speak of human I wanted to do or get rid
of mitstrebenden heart. It is not an artistic, not a aesthetic principle, but quite a religious,
certainly a divine. As in the Love through a most blissful and instinctive recognition of the
merits and faults of others an adorable image are combined, this is the way it is with the beholder
with the world. It has everything inside, everything is outside, he has the inside; it is
not lost, him all things are present. He is down, he gives off, but he throws away never because,
as he has life and how he has God, he has himself And that, Faustina is the big one: have himself.
Then we have the world, has to the humanity, the others who throw
themselves at all hours, having nothing and no one.

Only the expectation of the love they deceive the hope of possession. "

Faustina had turned his head and remained silent. A long time passed in silence and Girlfriend was
constantly turned away his head. The spoken words produced a double Silence. It was well past
midnight when I was preparing myself to go.

With rigid enough air Faustina my hand. She looked at me, and miraculously, her eyes were full
of questions like that of a little girl.

Very much I would have again seen Faustina, but when I came two days later in the apartment, I was told
that she was gone.

The writer

Written in 1909

The writer, a mysterious being has decreed, the culture of our time his indelible Stamp impressed.
Yes, you could say that what is now commonly under the title Culture understands the work of writers
is.

What is a man of letters? Subsequent studies will answer this question, they want the nature and
impact of the writers, the conditions of his life, the foundations and objectives his mind with the
help of some of typed characters explore.

The order established representative figures are, of course, hardly in a reality can find such a distinction
and formulaic; life gives mixtures.

It is the psychologists much of the Tribune, in a lot of amateur
psychologists in the Apostles prove much of Schöngeist can.

It is also possible that a single person in the elements of several of the types put that beautiful
spirit and a psychologist, or amateur, Tribune and apostles are united. Even people in the
creative features of the letters are available, perhaps the modern era generally failed to produce
a creative person who would be entirely free of it. When writers but the properties are designated
by one of those representatives are in certain and prominent way to enter appearance, and the
specificity and the varying extent the mixture are likely to him in his human and artistic reach
the interesting Difficult to give attractive and unfathomable.

The writer as a dilettante

An art of love mercy, to the point that makes the amateurs in the noble meaning of the word. The
dilettante and the artist may differ only by the consequence of a
suffering state, which has captivated the artist in his art, while
the Dilettante remains free.

The artist is tied, only his desire, the power of his Spirit, to identify with all things
of this world, makes it seem free. When Amateurs, it is vice versa. The dabbler really identified
with the things of this World while his spirit is bound. His desire is not directed therefore against
the world as against something that conquers, understood to be interpreted, but to the art whose
He wants to seize. The artist, the art inside and wants to speak their discard in exchange
for a piece of divine and the world, the amateur it out and she wants to win by calm in the world
and God within him and thereby seeks to bring into harmony.

The writer as a dilettante, but neither the world nor God nor art in itself to him is not only
in art that looks, to snatch, but also the world and God. He enters empty on the plan. He's probably tired
of experiences. He is not very organized Soul, little else would be fighting not be able to
tire him. He has a battle attended, in the back row he has heard the gunfire and watched as one
Dead and wounded was over. That was enough to satisfy him with revulsion against the war, yes,
he is the most thorough hater of all warfare has become one of quietist philosophy, because it
forces the state of his mind to deal with his weakness as a strength.

Already it can be concluded that he was not part of an inner necessity
in the fight has, so to speak of patriotism or love of military life
or desire for distinction.

He has been dug just like so many other recruits to do so, and he was from the outset a skeptical
soldier, that is the worst soldier is thinking. As you drive something must in the world, he has become
a soldier, he takes the leave, so he is, with the exception of the obtained disgust and horror,
again as empty as it was before, and he does not quite know what now begin. It occurs not only
empty but also draw on the plan, and because he commanded not a must, he is not hungry. Only people
who are under a tyrannical Must grind are hungry, all the rest are more or less satisfied.

He remembers well that hunger is one of them to choose, hunger, excitement, longing, an ideal
desire. The world, the people, the phenomena of life attract his participation little or only
insofar as his person is affected. All at once directed his Desire, all his power and desire
to injure themselves.

He decides to completely and even for his own person, that he had been in the back rows of
the combatants, been only dimly aware of was. His own personality is revealed to him suddenly as an object
of unprecedented importance as an undiscovered region, whose beauty and virtues to teach the
rest of mankind is now his most imperious instinct. Everything he does, thinks and feels, seems
to him amazing, special and worthy of being communicated to a large degree. The unnoticed and
darker his existence was until now, the more it pushes him into a to provide focus. But how did
he do this?

He walks with instinctive cunning to work. He adorns himself, and although he is adorned his sufferings,
of his experiences, with a strikingly tapered, intensified and strong opinions about people and destinies.
He excites the curiosity and his instinct led him admirably, for curiosity, in a common, as
in a higher Sense, is the most striking train the society from which it comes and focusing He
wants to be, the center of the creative person really is. Also, the creative Man drives on the
image of the world, but because by it increases, thus alone, when he turns off his person from his
work and in its place is something that I call fictional personality. The creative individual is
his own person only a pretext a starting point, the writer as a dilettante sees in it the essence
and the goal. The creative Man is lonely by nature and by definition, yet he lives among the people
because humanity it is an essential element by which he suffers because he was born is to suffer,
because suffering is that state of mind which enables him to create. The writer as an amateur
is never lonely, the less the more he in himself and in himself infected. He turns away to
the solitude of an artificial replacement for natural to attract the creative people, he is adorned
with loneliness, and this is a means to arouse curiosity.

People are expendable to him, although he studied; He is tired and fed up of people, only his
own person he is never tired of it He always seems interesting, desirable, important and excellent.
Not by the People he is suffering, but by itself, and depending on rank and the nature of his
mind and Character in all grades and opportunities; ranging from unfulfilled needs lower Variety
to the thirst for hemostasis of a major ambition.

This ambition is to carefully separate from what the Greeks have called for fame, as a psychic
who request and in its roots with the idea of ​​immortality identical. The ambition has nothing
to do with anonymity, the ambitious man is not unlimited and unconditional
way, such as the ambitious, it does not dissolve in the idea, preside
his cause, he stands outside his work, he is always the gentleman,
always visible, and his name umflammt his act as a program.

The ancient-heroic status of fame is the modern times and people have almost lost. Perhaps
this is why our culture, or what we call the name, so torn apart,
broken and discordant, because it completely on individual, rests
on "reputable" sources. Any true culture requires anonymity. 

The
writer as a dilettante abhors anonymity because he appears without
his name, so it is as if a general would go out of uniform to court. Something passed over him like a great moving
wind. "Why, God A'mighty!" he cried. "I can't stop to shave me. It's now or never, don't you
know 'tis?"

He snatched his hat from the chair where he had thrown it, and went out of the hut, limping
down the hill. And Raven was with him. He was with him as he hurried along the road so fast
that it seemed as if the next step meant breaking into a run. He was with him when, halfway
to the street, Eugene Martin passed them, in his buggy, stopped further on and called to them:
"Ride?" He was not laughing now, he was not jibing. He seemed to be constrained to ask them
to ride, they were hurrying so. Raven threw a curse at him, but Tenney broke into a limping
run and jumped into the tail of the wagon and sat there, his legs dangling. And he called so
piercingly to Martin to drive along, to "Hurry, for God's sake, hurry!" that Martin did whip
up, and the wagon whirled away, and Raven hurried on alone.

That night, at eight o'clock, Nan went over to ask if Raven had come home, and finding he had
not, loitered back to her own gate and waited. She could not go in. If she kept her mind on
him, he might come. And presently he came. She walked to meet him and put her hand through
his arm. He was walking firmly, but he looked "all in."

"Come," she said. "Supper's waiting."

"No," said Raven, "not yet. I got a fellow to bring me back from the street. Dick said you'd
been over."

"Yes," said Nan. Allowed so that I accompanied the tortoise and the eyes themselves abundant.
This small road is no trouble, and even if it would be trouble for you, noble King, is to help
you not bother me too much! "

All were amazed at such great generosity, but they were ashamed at the same time that one I
want to cheat the rabbit, it was that so generously to make the road again, only prove to the king
a service to. After much back and forth Eden was the turtle after all, commanded to bring
the rabbit to land it safely and with eyes again lead to the king.

The turtle was then the hare, after the latter had kindly adopted
again on his back and carried him to shore.

Once there, shaking the hare, the water from his Coat and said to the turtle:

"You cunning beast, you had me almost outwitted, but my list was better than yours and your stupidity
is greater than the mean.

If you need rabbit eyes, they seek for yourself only. I need the
mean time being for me.

Lives so well, and greet your king quite nicely from me! "

Voice's, jumped up and hurried ascended the hill, leaving the baffled
turtle back speechless.

    
    
    Since that period the rabbit of each turtle slowly out of the way
and the Tortoise still lives in the water soon, now in the country,
because they fear the fish in the water king and in the country she
still hopes to find a pair of rabbit eyes.

  

[Note 1: this is the carp in Japan as a symbol the strength and power is because it swims against
the tide and even waterfalls and rapids to overcome.]

[Decoration]

Maorigashima [1].

Maorigashima was once a thriving island, whose inhabitants could live happily ever after, because
everything you need in life, the island brought forth.

Also there was an excellent Ton, from which the people were preparing splendid pots and bowls
that were highly paid. From therefore prevailed on the island of prosperity and wealth, poor people
were there at all not.

The island lay in the south of Japan, near today at the Formosa, their ruler was Pairuno, a
God-fearing and righteous prince, who saw with great sadness, as the wealth and the good life
corrupted the morals of his subjects, as these are more the gluttony and were doing nothing
and the teachings of the gods despised.

All warnings and the good example of a godly, honest life of the ruler
could not, the people of Maorigashima back on the path of a respectable
lifestyle return, on the contrary, the trucks were on hand, even the
officials who have been were still being held in check, there were
finally a vicious life and neglected their duties.

As Pairuno saw that help all of his teachings are no good wanted and that he lacked the power
to forcibly bring about an improvement in the conditions yes because the officials themselves
led a dissolute life and not obeyed, he turned themselves to the
gods and asked them for help and rescue.

One day he was again immersed
in the temple in fervent prayers, he heard a voice whispered to him:

"The
measure of the sins Maorigashima's is full and the gods have decided
that the island all the inhabitants destroyed. You alone are destined
to stay alive for the posterity to proclaim the demise of the island,
so that others will follow your example. They
believed him capable of doing things unspeakable, and yet there wasn't a public voice to demand
an inquiry as to whether he really had done them. They cheerfully accepted the worst and believed
the best. And it's true he had behaved more or less queer for a long time, wouldn't speak to
people when he met them, didn't seem to know them, and then suddenly breaking out, in the blacksmith's
shop or buying his grain at the store, and asking if they were saved. The alleged difference in principle by the same the music
one would therefore based on a more or less of this effect. Very unscientific in itself, this way the
bargain, the decision whether to feel stronger and deeper in a Mozart symphony or a Shakespeare
tragedy, a poem by Uhland or Hummel's Rondo to let anyone even propriety. Does it, however,
the music do "directly" to the feeling that the other arts only through the mediation of terms,
one is missing only in other words, because, as we have seen, the feelings and to be employed
by the Music and Fine only secondarily, directly only the imagination. Countless times in
musical treatises, the analogy is called in which is undoubtedly between music and architecture.
But if ever a reasonable Architects occurred to the architecture had to excite the purpose,
feelings, or whether these the same content?

Every true work of art is to put in some relation to our feelings,
none in exclusive.

One says nothing for the aesthetic principles of music make a difference, when they are characterized
only in general terms of their impact on the feel. Nor such as one explores the nature of the wine by
getting drunk. It is only on the specific way to arrive, as such emotions are evoked through music.
 They've
got on all our nerves like the devil, and I fancy even the Wake Hill natives are pretty well
fed up with 'em. 

The urgent creditors, which is led by the sounds of his debtor, to him the whole sum to pay, [39]
is not driven to different than the resting, the subject suddenly a waltz enthusiasm for the dance.
The former is more more spiritual by the elements: melody and harmony, the second moved by the sensual
rhythm. Neither is free but for Self-determination, not overwhelmed by spiritual or ethical
superiority of beauty, but because that promotes nerve stimulation. The music he releases
the legs or the heart, just the tongue as the wine. Such victories preach only the weakness of
the vanquished. A suffering unmotivated goal-and substance-less emotions by a power that in
any report our Will and thought is, is unworthy of the human spirit. When fully human in such
a high Grade of the elementary an art carried away that they their free action not more powerful,
so it seems neither a credit for the art, much less for the hero himself

[39] Supported by the Neapolitan singer Palma and other told (Anecdotes
on music, by A. Burgh, 1814).

  
  

The music makes this determination by no means, but their moment of intense feeling it possible that
they are enjoyed in such a trend. This is the point at which the oldest charges have compared the
art of music has its roots, that they enervate, effeminate, limp.

Where one has music as an exciting means "indefinite emotions," as food of the "feeling" in itself,
because the accusation is only too true. Beethoven demanded that the music was to the man "fire
in the spirit to beat. " Mind you "should.

If not even a fire that through music created and nurtured, is the strong-willed, strong minded
man who holds back development of resistant?

In any case, this charge seems to us worthy of the musical influence as its excessive Praise.
And the physical effects of music are in direct proportion to the
abnormal Irritability of the nervous system to meet them next, so
grows the moral influence of the Sounds with their lack of culture
of mind and character.

The lower the echo of education, the huge three such power hitting. The strongest effect has
music known to Wilde.

The quenched our music does not an ethicist.
They begin to speak prelude, preferably with numerous examples, "how
even the animals' bow to the power of music.
I was in hopes I never should set eyes on a woman's apron again.'

"I went up to have a bath (my staying at the hut was a kind of emergency business, you see)
and he disappeared, and Charlotte and Jerry didn't get on to it that he was really gone, and
later on he was seen wading into the water over at Mountain Brook, there by the stepping stones.
The Donnyhills saw him, and at first they thought he knew what he was about, but kept on watching
him. He stooped and dipped himself, and they had an idea it was some kind of a self-conducted
baptism. I believe it was. Nan often has to remind me that 'he's a very religious man.' But
they watched, and presently he went under, and they knew then he was making way with himself,
and the Donnyhill boy, that calm young giant, fished him out, Tenney fighting him furiously.
And it began to look to me as if he ought to be under a mild supervision (it wasn't for nothing
you and your mother let fly at me with your psychiatry! For the right of our king, we were able to fight when the king gives up
this right, how could we stand in an unusual hatred towards the other Germans! Besides, "he continued,"
I may not always remain in my home, after I have arranged my affairs there and made my position
clear - and about " he added with some hesitation, "I want you, Mr. Challier before I leave,
nor speak a serious word. You have welcomed me with fatherly kindness, I want you communicate
clearly and without reserve my thoughts about the future. Do you approve of them do not "
he said with a sigh, "I will change my plans and hopes to give up what my favorite and most are.
"

Mr. Challier it looked a little surprised at the cordial tone and said:

"You know, my young friend, that my advice and my experience when
I tell you the same good will, are always at their command.

"

He sat in his chair and invited the young man in a chair beside him
space to take.

This was not before the old man standing for a moment thoughtfully lowered the head as to arrange
his thoughts, and then spoke with a trembling voice:

"You know me, Mr. Challier as homeless refugees, and yet have Me kindly
open your house.

They have taken me into the circle of your family and I must assume that you have confidence
in me, although you never before something from me one, although you do not know where I come
from and what my past. "

"I trust you," replied Mr. Challier, "because you come here as the servant a noble and unfortunate
prince.

It is not the disaster, if you are not a noble and faithful heart is, so I took you how to make
a brave and righteous Man up and by, "he added with the French so peculiar politeness of the
heart adding, "I was not disappointed in my opinion and my confidence because now you leave us,
I feel that a friend differs from us. "

"I go back to my country," said Cappei, "so as soon as I can, again stand before you to be
able to not more than the homeless unknown, but as a man, can prove you know where it comes from,
what he was and what he is, as a man, the one albeit small but secure
possession, and who can dare to make sure you issue a request to of
his whole life's happiness depends on - the prayer, "he added with
a trembling voice, "I entrust the fate of your daughter Louise, whom
I love with all the warmth and Loyalty, which are the inheritance
of our tribe - whose happiness I dedicate all of my life will and
without which my future would be bleak and joyless.

"

The old gentleman had been listening quietly Challier and serious. His eyes rested for a moment
with loving sympathy to the young man, he spoke with a mild pleasant voice:

"I told you, Cappei that I have full confidence in you that I for you think a man of honor, -
it follows that I regard your person, no reservations, carry To entrust them with the happiness
of my daughter - I'm not rich, "he continued," but I have only one daughter and possessed enough
to her, even if the choice of their hearts to a poor man is to be able to establish a secure
existence. Whether you own property or not is therefore not crucial to answer your question,
but, "he added continued, "the foundation of a carefree existence for the future of my daughter
is in the Business that I run here. Would I sell it, would not the purchase price in cash
repräsentiren the value that it has in the hands of a skilled and industrious man. Therefore,
I have always cherished the hope that the man whom my daughter once in a companion their chosen life,
my business will continue. I feel it completely, "he continued," what it means to leave his country
- but in your home, the conditions changed so and the current conditions
you can be as little pleased that perhaps your own Wishes could correspond
to come back here. And I don't
quarrel with it.)

"The queer part of it is that I feel Nan herself couldn't break the bond between us, couldn't
if she tried. It's as deep as nature, as actual as Old Crow. I can give you a curious proof
of it. I might be almost swamped by somebody--yes, I mean Tira. I might as well say so as hear
you saying it over this letter--somebody that is beauty and mystery and a thousand potencies
that take hold on nature itself. But that doesn't push Nan away by an inch. If I'm swamped,
Nan's swamped with me. If I mourn the beauty and the piteousness withdrawn, Nan mourns, too.
It's Nan and I against the world. Do you now but, my dear, that anyone ever wisdom and true dignity of man could win, for
which the path leads to the spiritual through the senses? Or do you rather (I imagine you free
to decide) that this was a dangerous-sweet way, truly a Irr and Sündenweg, who heads need to
be misleading? For you must know that we Poet the way of beauty can not go without that Eros
is begotten and the Leader raises, yes, we may be heroes in our own chaste men of war, so we
are like women, because our passion is collecting, and our desire must be love Remain - that
is our desire and our shame. Do you see now clearly that we do not poets as can be even more
worthy? Necessary that we go astray, and necessary dissolute Adventurers of feeling remain?
The masters of our attitude Style is lies and foolishness, our Fame and honor as a farce, the
confidence of the most ridiculous amount to us, and folk and Youth Education through the Art of
daring to prohibit companies. For how probably the most capable to educators, the incorrigible
and natural direction of the abyss is innate? We wish him well and dignity denied win, but
how do we turn like, it attracts us. If we say from about the definition of knowledge, because
knowledge Phaedrus, has no dignity and strength: it is knowing, understanding, forgiving, without
attitude and shape, and has sympathy with the abyss, it is the abyss. So we reject this with
determination, and now our costumes is only the beauty, that is to say the Simplicity, size,
and new rigor, impartiality and the second form. But the form and Impartiality, Phaedrus,
lead to intoxication and desire, the cause might be noble miserable feeling of outrage that rejects
its own beautiful rigor than infamous, lead to Abyss, the abyss also her. We poets, I say run,
it then because we are not able, we soar, we can only digress. And now I, Phaedrus, stay you
here, and only when you no longer see me, go and thou "

* * * * *

       A few days later left Gustav von Aschenbach, as he felt ill, the spa
hotel at a later hour of the morning as usual.

He had with some only half physical dizziness fight, which were accompanied by a fierce rising
fear and helplessness, a Feelings of hopelessness and despair, of whom it was not clear whether it is on
the outer referring to the world or its own existence. In the hall he noticed a large amount
for transportation lying ready baggage asked a doorman who it was, the trip and was told the
Polish nobility with which he had been secretly expecting. He received him without forfeited his facial
features had changed, with that brief elevation of the head, which you something you did not need
to know, casual notes, and asked: ? "When" You answered him: "After lunch" He nodded and went
to the sea..

It was inhospitable there.

Over the wide, shallow waters, the beach of the first extended Sandbar separated, rippling shudder
ran from front to rear. Autumnal, obsolescence appeared on the once vibrant colors, now almost
deserted places are like, whose sand was not kept clean. A photographic camera, seemingly abandoned,
stood on his three-legged stand on the edge of the lake, and a black cloth spread over it, clapping
fluttered in the cold winds.

Tadzio, with three or four playmates, he had left, before moving to the right the hut of his
own and with a blanket over his knees, about halfway between the sea and rest of the series
of beach huts in his deck chair, Aschenbach saw him again to. The game, which was unattended,
because the women want to stay busy with preparations have seemed random and degenerated. That descent,
in the belt tightening and a black, pomaded Hair, "Jaschu" was called by a sand casting irritated face
and blinded, positive Tadzio on the wrestling match that ended quickly with the case of weaker
beautiful. But as if in the parting hour, the feeling of serving the low traffic in cruel brutality
and to take revenge strive for a long slavery, was the winner will still not from the loser,
but pressed on his back on his knees, his face last as in the sand that threatened to Tadzio,
without giving out of breath from the struggle to choke. His attempts to shake off the burden
ends were desperately they remained for a moment and repeated throughout is only as a twitch.
Aschenbach was horrified to jump to the rescue, as the violent finally released his victim.
 He had gone there to stay over a night, after a few hours' visit
with Tenney, who was eagerly glad to see him, and again begging to be confirmed in his condition
of spiritual whiteness. Raven had just got to his house when the message was telephoned up
from the station, and its urgency made him horribly anxious. He had been especially aware of
Nan all day. Little threads of feeling between them had been thrilling to messages he couldn't
quite get, as if they were whispers purposely mysterious, to scare a man. He was on edge with
them. They quickened the apprehension the message brought upon him overwhelmingly. Three
quarter of an hour the small-arms fire rattled continuously. The country people of Somersetshire behaved
like old veteran soldiers, only that they were too high.

Now, however, the other divisions of the royal army had set in motion. The body of sheaves and
the Blues came up blown up by Weston Zoyland and scattered in a Nu Grey's, the few riders who were trying
to collect again. The fugitives spread a panic among their comrades in the rear, to cover what
the ammunition had. The car drove off in a hasty rush and did not stop it till it more Miles distant
from the battlefield. Up to now, Monmouth as a brave and capable Krieger shown: one had seen him
walk, as he, with a spear in his hand, his infantry cheered by word and example. But he was experienced
in military matters, than that he should not have to know that everything was over. His men
had the advantage of to them the ambush and the darkness, lost, they were of the cavalry and
left the caissons in the lurch, and the royal troops were now in the best Order together. Feversham
was awakened by the fire was jumping out of bed, had his cravat folded themselves properly patterned
in the mirror, and was finally at hand, to see what his people did.


"So Dick sent it to you," he said. "Well, God bless him for it. Kiss me, my Nan." You know of course as you are gone, but I must go, that you think only to know. Each
is his pain necessary to each his desire to be searching, and where I perish in your opinion,
there is perhaps my salvation. If one were to criticize anything but To leave the confines itself
not very closely, again tangible, Durable! A human being is not a wooden frame can not be measured
with the ruler, not with nails and brackets before the skill is taken into custody.

