The story
centers about the young Southern hero, Harry Kenton, and his friends.  AHORSE WITH SHERBURNE
  III.  JACKSON MOVES
   IV.  ON THE RAPPAHANNOCK
    V.  FREDERICKSBURG
   VI.  A CHRISTMAS DINNER
  VII.  JEB STUART'S BALL
 VIII.  IN THE WILDERNESS
   IX.  CHANCELLORSVILLE
    X.  THE NORTHERN MARCH
   XI.  THE CAVALRY COMBAT
  XII.  THE ZENITH OF THE SOUTH
 XIII.  GETTYSBURG

THE STAR OF GETTYSBURG

CHAPTER I

THE HEAD OF THE FAMILY

A youth sat upon a log by a clear stream in the Valley of Virginia, mending clothes.

He showed skill and rapidity in his homely task.  A shining needle darted in and out of the
gray cloth, and the rent that had seemed hopeless was being closed up with neatness and precision.
No one derided him because he was engaged upon a task that was usually performed by women.
The Army of Northern Virginia did its own sewing.

"Will the seam show much, Arthur?" asked Harry Kenton, who lay luxuriously upon the leafy ground
beside the log.

"Very little when I finish," replied St. Clair, examining his work with a critical eye.  "Of
course I can't pass the uniform off as wholly new. It's been a long time since I've seen a
new one in our army, but it will be a lot above the average."

"I admire your care of your clothes, Arthur, even if I can't quite imitate it.  I've concluded
that good clothes give a certain amount of moral courage, and if you get killed you make a
much more decent body."

"But Arthur St. Clair, of Charleston, sir, has no intention of getting killed," said Happy
Tom Langdon, who was also resting upon the earth. "He means after this war is over to go back
to his native city, buy the most magnificent uniforms that were ever made, and tell the girls
how Lee and Jackson turned to him for advice at the crisis of every great battle."

"We surely needed wisdom and everything else we could get at Antietam--leadership, tenacity
and the willingness to die," said Dalton, the sober young Virginia Presbyterian.  "Boys, we
were in the deepest of holes there, and we had to lift ourselves out almost by our own boot
straps."

Harry's face clouded.  The field of Antietam often returned to him, almost as real and vivid
as on that terrible day, when the dead lay heaped in masses around the Dunkard church and the
Southern army called forth every ounce of courage and endurance for its very salvation.

"Antietam is a month away," he said, "and I still shudder at the name. We didn't think McClellan
would come up and attack Lee while Jackson was away at Harper's Ferry, but he did.  How did
it happen?  How did he know that our army was divided?"

"I've heard a strange story," said Dalton.  "It's come through some Union prisoners we've taken.
They say that McClellan found a copy of General Lee's orders in Frederick, and learned from
them exactly where all our troops were and what they intended.  Then, of course, he attacked."

"A strange tale, as you say, a most extraordinary chance," said Harry. "Do you think it's true,
George?"

"I've no doubt it fell out that way.  The same report comes from other sources."

"At any rate," said Happy Tom, "it gave us a chance to show how less than fifty thousand men
could stand off nearly ninety thousand. Its value as indomitable as their
spirit of independence. The idea of ​​work is there a religion. It is a people who meditate everything
he does, calculating for excellence and little boastful. Industrial habits have generated significantly
artistic feeling, which harmonizes with the speculation, but art not the picturesque and passionate,
but serious art that involves an idea. The Catalan not vanity but fruitful spring - that drives
progress - because it is lofty, entrepreneur and has a horror all the words: stay back. He knows
no barriers Useful things: if the world did not have English or Anglo-Americans, the Catalans
would Indeed the role of the Saxon races in industry and commerce.

Finally, the population of the provinces (mainly Celtic, but with infusion of subsequent races)
has a semi-Spanish and half-French in their customs and their industry. Lovers of work and very
skilled in all manipulations, the Basque and Navarre change with the greatest happiness of the hoe
and hammer on the gun, if they see their freedoms or franchises seriously threatened. Here nobody
cares preferably with the political situation the nation: the main issue is personal freedom,
in harmony with the interest of the district. Work is the only way to be the man who understands
the Basque. He has such an addiction his freedom, his staff of race, nation and individual, which
retains its own language in spite of everything. Like the catalan is entrepreneurial, cosmopolitan,
if necessary. Whenever he looks jealous to preserve and exercise their initiative in every work
of social activity. Patient and tenacious, half-hearted, likes to lock himself in his individuality
to make things with aplomb - which does not prevent him always served the association for
all that is required collective strength and power, or a beneficent action.

The natural consequences of all these characteristic features are noticed in the social condition
loa four different groups that make up the continental Spain. Without ignoring some exceptions purely
local, or that manifest in better-educated classes, the general rules are no less justified, and can
be summarized as follows:

In the Spain that was radically changed by the Arabs or Moors, is met almost all Spanish society
which has produced most beautiful, big, rich and sublime on fine arts. There is no inch of
usable land that is not subject to cultivation. The show much skill manufacturing jobs and
happy inspiration. The Art of the irrigation is generally known and practiced skill dog. Where
land ownership is not something divided (and this is rare), supplemented with the population of movable
property, whether in agriculture, the livestock industry, small manufacturing, etc., so that
the mass is prolatarios While relatively small. The trend to the possession of something very
general, and with it instincts and habits of independence. Populations are little or no superstitious.
The begging exists only in very small scale, and that, reduced to the major cities in no case
comes from the instincts of the Arab race, but of economic causes and ancient monastic traditions.
There is no true welfare of the masses, as far as possible in the present state of society. Liberalism
is great in all populations. The economic movement is very active in all branches of production.
People love neatness and elegance. In a word, Moorish Spain, with a much smaller territory
to half of Gothic Spain, and a population equal to 66 percent of it, is at least four times
higher in social movement, wealth, welfare and civilization.

On the contrary, the Gothic Spain, covering more than half of the territory and population continental,
and contains so vast fertile plains and alti-plains in inaction vegeta and poverty (with rare exceptions)
is pleased to isolation, with no interest in communications; tolerate dirt everywhere and neglect, is literally
full of beggars, keeping begging as an institution, has an amazing profusion of ancient churches
and convents; look with disdain the beauties of vegetation, and is extremely backward in the art of
agriculture and manufacturing. There (quite the opposite of the other parts of Spain) the fields are
deserts, and the population is concentrated in cities and villages, where persistently keeps habits
of laziness, prudery and begging. The clergy (without noticeable influence, or nearly mule in politics
and social education in the other groups) is very central Spain still powerful to resist the damage
or progress, because it can easily influence on idle mobs clustered in localities. The customs
of the clergy are not austere, or thing it seems, does not take any interest in popular instruction,
and mixed in committed policy whenever it sees its own interests. In general it is greedy,
and their primary care is to ensure good income.

Life within that part of Spanish society ew monotonous and sad.

The appearance of the people is always gloomy, owing to his clothes, a yellowish-brown ink on
general. The buildings lack the grace, and elegance of simplicity and seduction of the picturesque.
The people divided only their attention, in entertainment, between the church and the bull ring,
ie, two mysticism - that of the traditional faith and danger. In conclusion, the old Spain (with
the exception of the ports of the Cantabrian coast, the city Madrid and Valladolid in part)
is deeply backward and stagnant at all. And worse is that even still has the notion of progress,
because they support or even understand enough railways and other elements of communication.

Although
the provinces are actually small republics, by the nature of its institutions and special ways,
and thus form a relatively superior to that of Catalonia the two
are so homogeneous in their general features, which can be understood
in a common appreciation.

It is in these two sections where the people have always shown greater respect and more tenacious
in the defense and preservation of its rights or municipal liberties, what which in ancient times
gave as examples the Aragonese nobles, the most liberal fraction and the strongest personality
among those that make up the second group.

Provinces in Catalonia and all progress is accepted with enthusiasm and perseverance by populations.

In
them there is no begging, beggars found in some Catalan towns come
almost all of Aragon, where down to exploit the industrious and commercial
spaces.

In the two groups that are major centers to Barcelona and Bilbao, intolerance Castilian, which
repels the foreign and new, has no place.

On the contrary, overseas is welcomed there with pleasure, and all involved new progress in civilization
is the most cordial hospitality. Municipal liberties and individualism have been fruitful to these
people industrious, thoughtful throughout, zealous to uphold the law, integrity and severe
in meeting any commitments. In no part of the peninsula is so deep as there the feeling of personality
(forgive me to repeat it), and HOWEVER, is there which presents more powerful the spirit of partnership.
This proves that there is no antagonism natural between the individual and collective, and that
man when he is personally free always seeking the support of the other individual strengths,
because it is a social being, and makes collective things much better than the socialist powers seeking
to absorb the initiative individuals on behalf of the common law.

Provinces in Catalonia and the democratic sentiment runs deep. There is the proletarian a man and
a citizen, he lives the work and is aware that work is given in society a supreme title which
entitles to the consideration and independence. These Both towns are the only ones who are left to
absorb the proposed unity of the nation Spanish, looking unit that
rests on truly liberal institutions, popular and national.

The Catalan and Basque keep their language, literature, traditions peculiar freedoms and shall
be considered as separate peoples. They summarize what is more prosperous and strong, the most
prolific and distinguished in the political, social and economic of Spain, and there is no
exaggeration to say that just as England Catalonia is Spanish, Provinces are the French mainland.
There are missing religious fanaticism, the taste for monopoly (although the Catalans are protectionist
by reason of its factories), and the veneration sable or militarism. The day that these people
are founding of the Republic, the change would be insensitive to the social and economic scarcely
would be an upward movement political. It is within these people which is the true seed of democracy
Spanish.

The result of the previous comparison is obvious, embracing the whole nation Spanish. It consists of
several villages, formed by crossing more or less intense of different races, and the various
activities of the institutions that have governed. Where want to counter that has reigned without
any absolute power socialism, social life has stalled. Torquemada where Philip II and have left
the deepest traces of their passage, the field has become sterile
or not has been rough but thorns and weeds.

Where convents and the clergy have dominated more strongly, begging has become endemic, idleness
great, gross superstitions, deep love of isolation, to the routine, the neglect and uncleanliness.
Where charters have missed the former (ie, freedoms or guarantees), industry, agriculture and
trade have remained steady, after The retrogradation hauled by the expulsion of the Moors and
Jews. Wherever you see the bad fruits of an education vicious and corrupting. On domestic morality
of central Spain is not an effect but the old Castilian pride and social isolation and in no way the
result of institutions above, who have made every effort to corrupt the people.

On the contrary, where the blood had been inoculated and customs of a people liberal, of spiritual religion,
equalizing and fraternal, and lover of nature (the Arab people or moro), is considerable prosperity.
Where there was no fighting or duality of religions there is more tolerance, less fanatical,
but alive instincts of liberty and fraternity the clergy have been less eager for wealth and
power. Where traditions have taken root economic freedom (that was the secret of the agricultural wonders,
artists and industrialists of the Moors), activity is visible, prosperity
satisfactory, in spite of the dismal action of regulatory laws and
prohibitive.

In the villages (the Basques) where no no monopolies, no soldiers, no bans or acquiring authority,
or indirect taxes ruinous, no police Inquisition, oppressive centralization, everything is
spontaneous and virile all prosper, peace reigns, the customs are pure, sweet and peaceful,
the ball game almost replaced the bloody bulls games, the game does not exist as passion and
speculation, real property is very divided, life is free, easy and cheap elementary instruction
is rather widespread, advanced civilization in every way, the population is much more condensed.

Catalonia, although much less independent of central government, the situation resembles to the
provinces, and is conspicuous by its industry and wealth, precisely because it has been less exposed
to the baneful influence of socialism despotic, brutal and corrosive opened by Carlos V and
Felipe II, socialism whose formulas were: the accusation, leveling in obedience passive, the
convent, the unity of religion, isolation, Spanish, prohibition, regulation of life, in short,
the complete suppression of individuality.

Such are the lessons to provide the present and the past of Spain,
comparing the situation four social groups most characteristic.

What is that justice may portend about the future of that nation? To answer this question it is
necessary to summarize the general features offered throughout Spain, for its constitution,
its government, its parties, social character, their education, their ideas, their economic
life, its literature and aspirations.

The Spanish Constitution is the image of the situation of the people
whom he governs.

They all coexist by halves, without a well defined character. It is a traditional monarchy or legitimacy
half divine right, half-roots, so that neither the aristocracy nor absolutism nor democracy
have authority or power or prestige, if not to hinder and damage each other. Parliamentary forms
and the apparent origin, but to the government obeys the courtesans influences to those of
the opinion. Very restricted circle of voters and powerful means of corruption, voting is always
the power, with no example of a ministry loses the election.

The parties, disoriented by lack of and operating principles in all cases the situations are exploited
to turn the power nation without any thing to win ministerial fluctuations. Little more or less
all governing parties by the same means: force, repression, intrigue, corruption of conscience.
Strange! the bulk of the Spanish people hate the government sable and wish the downfall of militarism,
and all ministries HOWEVER rely on on the bayonets.

Spain's mainstream institutions seem to have been calculated to counteract any tendency progress.
In vain the Constitution established the legal equality, if the law restricts imports and all
changes, pregnant traffic, regulate many industries make it extremely difficult for youth access
to the professions, and subject to dire hindrance the best companies. A single example, for a very
subordinate interest, simply in order to understand how disastrous are the effects of restrictive
regulatory regime that prevails in most of Spain. Shortly before my arrival at Madrid, the
government had wanted to befriend the porters, whose service is regulated. To this end set a rate
that was in the service of every waiter the price of four reales
for a trip or diligence within the city be so forbidden to all charge
more or less for their work.

This, no doubt, in deference to the porters and the public. A few days after the reform, the porters
were quejosísimos the government because they did not win anything. The reason was simple. Earlier,
arranging freely with individuals and making competition, winning six, eight or ten reales per
day, at very low prices because they made many commitments or services. But with the high tariff,
the public has ceased to occupy, and triple or quadruple the price of very rare commissions were
not compensated for the losses in the number of operations.

Spain is a country that abounds in paper mills, although the product is usually defective.
Economic protection prohibits the importation of foreign paper, forcing the Spanish to serve their
own. What is the result? The thought that has suffered famine in 1859-60 proves that the prohibition
only serves to give a privilege to manufacture and maintain national stationary. For many months
have not been printing paper for their publications, impotence of the privileged. In Spain,
classic wheat and all kinds of cereals, often seen the strange phenomenon of a grain shortage that
threatens to produce hunger! Why? Because people do not have the freedom to import grain when the
crops are scarce by lack of rain. Spain (it is worth repeating) is one of the countries of Europe
where snuff smokes worse (if not contraband), - and it belongs in
the production monopoly of Cuba, Puerto-Rico and Manila!

Prohibitive and protective tariffs, and therefore very high and over-regulation, make it difficult
and relatively small trade of a State as large as that. What is the result? The corruption of officials
of customs service, and smuggling huge and shocking, sadly respond. Spanish treasure lost by
what goes underground to the whole country (mainly Gibraltar, Portugal and the Pyrenees) three times
matter what a strong reduction in rates. But it remains a fatal, a spirit of routine and deep backlog
of statesmen in the knowledge of social economy.

Studied with attention and without warning to the Spanish people, is that he has many features outstanding
qualities, and many very serious shortcomings of education.

All that is good comes from nature, which provided him with admirably, like everything what is wrong
is the result of deeply corrupting institutions. It is a town loyal, honest, hospitable, very
sober and frugal, patient, courageous, capable of all prowess and all the efforts of a great race. But
it lacks, in general, the spirit initiative, spontaneity, - because the bad governments have become accustomed
to the sedentary life, inertia and routine at all. There are many things vicious, hateful,
that the Spanish people love, not by inclination but by habit. The game, bullfights, cockfights,
etc.., There are because the government encourages and exploits with lotteries, circus officials,
taxes, etc. The Spanish literally live among the vines, and consume
very little wine.

If the laws had intemperance exploited as a prosecutor, is sure to abound as drunks players
and beggars.

     To burnish your buttons, to brighten your guns?
     Or wait for May-day, and warm spring suns?
     Are you blowing your fingers because they're cold,
     Or catching your breath ere you take a hold?
     Is the mud knee-deep in valley and gorge?
     What are you waiting for, Tardy George?"

"That's pretty bitter," said Harry, "but it must have been written before the Seven Days. 
You notice what the author says about waiting for May-day."

"Likely enough you're right, but it applies just the same or they wouldn't be reprinting it
in their newspapers.  Some of them claim a victory over us at Antietam, and nearly all are
angry at McClellan because he wouldn't follow us into Virginia.  They think he ought to have
crossed the Potomac after us and smashed us."

"He might have got smashed himself."

"Which people are likely to debate all through this generation and the next.  But they're bitter
against McClellan, although he's done better than any other Yankee general in the east.  Just
listen to this verse, will you?

    "Suppose for a moment, George, my friend,
     Just for a moment you condescend
     To use the means that are in your hands
     The eager muskets and guns and brands;
     Take one bold step on the Southern sod,
     And leave the issue to watchful God!
     For now the nation raises its gorge,
     Waiting and watching you, Tardy George."

Harry carefully folded up the paper and put it back in his pocket. The contrast between these
verses and the song that he had just heard ten thousand men sing, as they whirled around Stonewall
Jackson's headquarters, impressed him deeply.

"It's hard, boys," he said, "for a general to see things like this printed about him, even
if he should deserve them.  McClellan, so all the prisoners say, has the confidence of his
men.  They believe that he can win."

"And we know that we can and do win!" exclaimed Langdon.  "We've got the soldiers and the generals,
too.  Hurrah for Bobby Lee, and Stonewall Jackson and Jim Longstreet, and old Jubal Early,
and A. P. Hill and D. H. Hill and Jeb Stuart and--and----"

"And for Happy Tom Langdon, the greatest soldier and general of them all," interrupted Dalton.

"That's true," said Langdon, "only people don't know it yet.  Now, by the great horn spoon,
what is that?  What a day this is!"

A great uproar had begun suddenly, and, as if by magic, hundreds of men had risen from the
ground and were running about like mad creatures. But the boys knew that they were not mad.
They understood in an instant what it was all about as they heard innumerable voices crying,
"Rabbit! Rabbit!"

Rabbits were numerous in the underbrush and they made good stew. The soldiers often surrounded
them and caught them with their bare hands, but they dared not shoot at them, as, owing to
the number of pursuers, somebody would certainly have been hurt.

Harry and his comrades instantly joined in the chase, which led into the deep woods.  The rabbit,
frightened into unusual speed by the shouts, darted into the thick brush and escaped them all.

"Poor little rascal," said Harry, "I'm glad he got away after all. What good would one rabbit
be to an army corps of twenty-five thousand men?"

As they were returning to their place on the creek bank an orderly came for Harry, and he was
summoned to the tent of Jackson.  It was a large tent spread in the shade of an old oak, and
Harry found that Captain Sherburne had already preceded him there.  All signs of splendor were
hidden completely.  Jackson once more wore with ease his dingy old gray clothes, but the skin
of his brow was drawn into a tiny knot in the center, as if he were concentrating thought with
his utmost power.

"Sit down, Mr. Kenton," he said kindly.  "I've already been speaking to Captain Sherburne and
I'll tell you now what I want.  General McClellan's army is still beyond the Potomac.  As nearly
as our spies can estimate it has, present and fit for duty, one hundred and thirty-five thousand
men and three hundred and fifty cannon.  McClellan, as we well know, is always overcautious
and overestimates our numbers, but public opinion in the North will force him to action.  They
claim there that Antietam was a victory for them, and he will surely invade Virginia again.
I shall send Captain Sherburne and his troop to find out where and when, and you are to go
with him as my aide and personal representative."

"Thanks, sir," said Harry.

"When can you start?"

"Within five minutes."

"Good.  I was going to allow you ten, but it's better to take only five. Captain Sherburne,
you have your instructions already.  Now go, and bear in mind, both of you, that you are to
bring back what you are sent to get, no matter what the cost.  Prepare no excuses."

There was a stern and ominous ring in his last words, and Harry and Sherburne, saluting, retired
with all speed.  Harry ran to his own tent, snatched up his arms and blanket-roll, saddled
and bridled his horse, and well within five minutes was riding by the side of Captain Sherburne.
He shouted to St. Clair, who had run forward in amazement:

"Gone on a mission for Old Jack.  Will be back--some time."

The cavalry troop of two hundred splendid men, led by Sherburne, one of the finest of the younger
leaders, trotted fast through the oak forest. They were fully refreshed and they were glad
of action.  The great heats of that famous summer, unusually hot alike in both east and west,
were gone, and now the cool, crisp breezes of autumn blew in their faces.

"Have you heard at what point on the Potomac the Union army is gathered?" Harry asked.

"At a village called Berlin, so our spies say.  You know McClellan really has some high qualities.
We found a heavy reconnoitering force of cavalry not far in our front two or three days ago,
and we did not know what it meant, but General Jackson now has an idea that McClellan wanted
to find out whether we were near enough to the Potomac to dispute his passage."

"We are not."

"No, we're not, and I don't suppose General Lee and General Jackson wish to keep him on the
other side.  But, at any rate, we're sent to find out whether he is crossing."

"And we'll see."

"We surely will."

CHAPTER II

AHORSE WITH SHERBURNE

Harry was glad that General Jackson had detailed him for this task. He missed his comrades
of the staff, but Sherburne was a host in himself, and he was greatly attached to him.  He
rode a good horse and there was pleasure in galloping with these men over the rolling country,
and breathing the crisp and vital air of autumn.

They soon left the forest, and rode along a narrow road between fields. Their spirits rose
continually.  It was a singular fact that the Army of Northern Virginia was not depressed by
Antietam.  It had been a bitter disappointment to the Southern people, who expected to see
Lee take Baltimore and Philadelphia, but the army itself was full of pride over its achievement
in beating off numbers so much superior.

It was for these reasons that Sherburne and those who rode with him felt pride and elation.
They had seen the ranks of the army fill up again. Lee had retreated across the Potomac after
Antietam with less than forty thousand men.  Now he had more than seventy thousand, and Sherburne
and Harry felt certain that instead of waiting to be attacked by McClellan he himself would
go forth to attack.

Harry had seldom seen a day more beautiful.  That long hot, dry summer had been followed by
a fine autumn, the most glorious of all seasons in North America, when the air has snap and
life enough in it to make the old young again. As
in all ancient cities, the streets are generally narrow and winding, and unsightly buildings.
But if one considers the whole city with its features monumental and has plenty of picturesque natural.
Its half-ruined walls, flanked by some towers, its ancient churches and remarkable for its Roman
architecture and gothic interior gardens and orchards, in contrast to the rough terrain and
factories, tanneries and many industrial establishments, give a very curious. Poitiers contains
important educational institutions, and their productions, similar in general to those of Angouleme,
are of considerable value.

The railway, crossing rivers on Vienne, Creuse, Indre and Cher, enters the great valley of
the Loire Valley (one of the most beautiful regions of France) plying the department Indre-and-Loire
(320,000 inhabitants), whose major cities are in via Tours and Amboise. The first, which is the
capital, has about 30,000 souls, located in a vast plain in the middle of the rivers Loire and
Cher and to the left bank of the former. It is a very ancient and very remarkable in the political history
of France. Apart from the value they place his great and varied activity manufacturing and agriculture
in the neighboring regions is an important center of communications river and land, flowing where
the roads of Paris, Bordeaux, Nantes and high Britain. The beautiful gothic cathedral and other
public buildings make it interesting in the eyes of the artist the simple yet curious traveler. It
has many notable institutions, including an excellent library (40,000 volumes) and museums of
painting and sculpture, natural history, antiques and mineralogy, with a beautiful botanical
garden. Among cities of the third order (and still almost second) Tours is, without doubt, one
of the most interesting in every way. Is this city ​​a special feature worthy of mention. Among
its various printing has one of proportions gigantic, the largest and most powerful in France, making
immense scale publications and in all languages. From there come every year from 7 to 8.000
works, and arises mainly prodigious mass of elementary books for public education. Thousands of
workers have permanent occupation in that vast establishment, whose powerful steam presses do not
stop providing food to civilization.

Amboise is only around 5.000 inhabitants and is remarkable only for its significant manufacturing
metal, whose products are generally estimated. This ancient city also delay on the margin
of the Loire. His strong castle served as temporary residence to the kings of France during
the XV and XVI.

The Loire Valley, as I said, is one of the most beautiful regions of France, but unfortunately have
suffered major disasters by the terrible floods of this river, whose waters overflow easily
owing to the shallowness of the channel and the complete natural grading the plains. The picturesque
may consist of natural forms and colors of objects and in artificial forms. It is to this second
kind of graceful beauty that belongs the exquisite scenery of the banks of the Loire, which would
be monotonous and tedious, because of their lack strong inflection, if it had the charm of the hand
of man has attempted. Plain is a vast open horizon, populated whole grain, vineyards, plantations
Hemp and beautiful carefully preserved forests. At the bottom of this magnificent panorama
vegetable slips the Loire, slow and quiet, with its endless shaded margins rows of poplars and other
large trees, and forming long beaches where the hot reverberates summer sun.

Here and there stands a mountain some distance, or a pretty flat hill inclined approaching
the river, where shine among gardens and parks on small towns fifth elegant, graceful houses gives
work (fermes), or the splendid castles history more or less aristocratic and heroic, raised
as watchmen on the heights of valley. All that region has both the smiling freshness and charm
of a vegetation very careful, the hallmark of productive activity, and a look of quiet majesty reminiscent
thousand episodes of French history.

Following the right bank of the Loire, in the midst of the richest and cheerful landscapes,
train enters the department of Loir-and-Cher (260,000 inhabitants), whose capital to Blois. The
Loire deserves particular attention, being the most significant river of France, although its
navigation is difficult in the upper and central in the summer. Born in remote mountains of the
Ardeche (which separate the valley of the Rhone), and has a total course to St. Nazaire, on
the coast of Ocean, 1.226 kilometers. Its basin covers an area of 131.000 square kilometers
(about a quarter of the territory of France) receiving many tributaries, of which 32 have over
50 courses and 13 miles are navigable. He fed waters Loire several very important channels for internal
navigation.

Since its margin, and at a distance of several kilometers, are achieved to see the famous castle
and towers of Blois, with a wonderful effect on the bottom of the vast panorama. Hallas also on
the plain, to the right bank of the Loire, and is a city of considerable antiquity he did great
role in history courtesan do France. It was a school that left Blois to successive figures in the
court of Louis XIV (the great corruptor crowned) Louise de La-Vallière and Atenais de Montespan,
there lived Louis XII, Francis I, Charles IX and Henry III, there was assassinated in 1588, the
famous Duke of Guise, and resided there in 1814 the imperial regency that was so ephemeral. Blois
has only about 14.000 inhabitants, but is a significant manufacturing center, and agricultural production
is considerable, especially in ordinary and famous fine wines vinegars.

It

was six o'clock in the afternoon when the train station playing in the Orleans (the Aurelia of the Romans)
beautiful old city of 42.000 inhabitants, situated in the center of a vast plain on the right
bank of the Loire. It is the capital of the Loiret department, which occupies almost the center
of the French territory and numbers 330.000 inhabitants. Its cathedral is one of the France's
most magnificent monuments in the Gothic genre, and contains many other buildings remarkable.
Orleans is one of the first capital of the second order in France, for the importance of his administration,
his vast industry and agriculture and other social conditions, but is it, after Paris, the most
historic of French cities. Their land was, according to the general opinion of antiquarians,
the seat of Genabum taken and destroyed by Caesar. Reedificóla Emperor Aurelian, who gave his
name, and was gathered by the kingdom Childeric of the Franks. Capital at the time of the duchy
of Burgundy, Hugh Capet has incorporated his crown, and later came to be the heritage of the
house of Valois and base of the industry actual Orleans whose secular struggles with the branch staff
have been so interesting in the history of France and still survive. It was there where the
famous heroine Joan of Arc defeated the English invaders earning the nickname of Maid of Orleans,
and that cost him a celebrity martyrdom at the stake in Rouen. Religious fanaticism has paid almost
always such as large acts of devotion and heroism sublime.

- The night had come when the train played in the small town of Etampes (of 8,000 souls) that belongs
to the department of Seine-and-Oise, strong 490.000 inhabitants, and whose capital is the famous
and historic Versailles. The train was running in the darkness of the countryside with the
speed of the hurricane, and soon realized, by the immense illumination that shone the valley
of the Seine, which was at the gates of Paris and had completed my journey.

       

* * * * *

       

CHAPTER VI.

* * * * *

CONCLUSION.

If the chapters in this series of souvenirs have been drawn with skill descriptive or purely
literary and artistic, yet would be very incomplete. Could scarcely offer a picturesque image
of the main features of Spanish appearance, and excite more or less the curiosity of readers enough
volunteers to encourage Colombians to his attention these pages. Also, always written in haste,
sometimes on tour and in any case within the final limit of a regular correspondence (in 1859-60)
these pages, although now collected in one volume, they must suffer the defects of its primitive
form.

In order to make them more useful, the reader will allow me to summarize my most notable travel impressions.

Nothing
can be as interesting for the people of the New World as the social study of Spain. The societies
of both regions are very consistent in its essential terms - where education above all - and should
compare them to see that wherever the same causes, ie, the same institutions, produce similar
results, given consideration to geographical differences. Rapid three-month trip I could do
in Spain is undoubtedly no, quite inadequate to make assessments pretty solid, more especially
as Spain is one of the people who have less ethnographic and social unit among the most notable
Europe. I feel strongly also did not have time to visit some provinces important (those of
Extremadura, Galicia, Asturias, Aragon and Navarra) that deserve special attention for more than one
reason. However, I do not adventurous some general observations that I can inferred from the rapid
observation of the rest of Spain, namely their mass, or the main its four major social groups.
Summarize, then:

What is the opinion can be expressed regarding the character, customs, institutions, the economic
and literary situation and the future of Spain? "The Spanish people and the nation Spanish
are similar and harmonious? Does the constitutional system has made real progress to Spain
as a society and state? What influence there have been revolutions this century? What hope can be
legitimately found in the current situation?

I will try answer to these questions as possible conoision.

Spain can be considered under three different faces, as to their division (out of legal or political)
in which the proportions vary widely depending on the combination
adopted.

These phases are: first, natural or topographical, and second, the historic, third, ethnographic
and social.

If you go to the first, check to see that the mountain system of the peninsula has been divided
the territory into seven major regions, well demarcated and very unequal proportions. These are,
beginning with the eastern end of the Pyrenees

1 The vast basin of the Ebro, between the Pyrenees, the parallel branching (which separates the
valley of Castile) and the Mediterranean, comprising the Basque provinces of Alava, those of
Logroño and Navarra, the whole house and all the Catalonia Aragon, with a total population (In
figures round) 2,962,000 souls.

2 The sea valley region of the ancient kingdoms of Valencia and Murcia, the province Almeria and
the alti-plains Basin - between the Mediterranean region, low Ebro
valley and mountain ranges that, rolling beads, still somewhat the
Pyrenees from Teruel to the Sierra-Nevada.

The population amounts to 2,158,000 contained therein souls.

3 º The Almeria Andalusia without, or is the Guadalquivir basin full
with the maritime region the narrow Mediterranean - containing 2,605,300
inhabitants.

4 The basin of the Guadiana, in fact composed of the main part of La Mancha (province Ciudad-Real),
part of the province of Toledo, Badajoz and all that is the main Extremadura. Population, 665.000
souls.

5 The basin of the Tagus, or New Castile (less Cuenca and Ciudad Real) and the province of Extremadura
Cáceres, with 1,300,000 inhabitants, round numbers.

6 The vast basin of the Duero, including Galicia (though harshly this is a separate group) and
excluding the provinces of Old Castile Tramontana of Logroño, Santander and Oviedo. Total population,
3,800,000 souls.

7 The maritime region of Cantabria, composed of the Asturias, and Santander province the Vizcaya and
Guipuzcoa Basque, between the Pyrenees and the Atlantic, and a population of 1,056,500 souls.

But
if we leave the old division of Spain (the actual history) as well as current policy, or purely
administrative, and beyond rather to the social divisions determined
by race, more or less mixed, customs, the old institutions, traditions
and economic conditions - in spite of the lines that separate orographic
some other counties, we will in fact Spain is composed of four or
groups Spains different populations can be determined as follows:

First
group .-- The Arab Spain or in predominantly Arab part, by blood,
customs and industry - vast region that encompasses the entire coastline
of the peninsula from the mouth Ebro to the Guadiana or maritime border
of Portugal, - understanding in Andalucías and all the ancient kingdoms
of Murcia and Valencia.

Second group - The Gothic Spain (although perhaps this adjective is not the most proper), which
primitive element predominates as amended by the Goths and Visogodos, and that was more strongly the
seal of the Middle Ages, vast region of alti-plains, plains and mountains
that includes the full Castile, Extremadura, the ancient kingdom of
Leon, Galicia, Asturias and Aragon.

Third group .-- The Catalan Spain (if I expression, but in itself does not accurately the idea),
a country populated by races are very mixed, but predominantly the
Roman element the strongly French, consisting of the four provinces
of Catalonia, and very special its language, customs, industry and
other social conditions.

Fourth group .-- The Celtic-Gallic Spain, character and special topography,
consisting of the Basque provinces and Navarre, a country that, by
its institutions and customs, could called democratic Spain.

These four groups, which are actually four different people have within themselves discrepancies more
or less sensitive by reason of topography, language and traditions
and customs.

But deep down have a clear analogy at all, justifying the classification indicated.

How work these social groups, and what are the differences more visible As to population density,
customs and the respective social condition?

                                   The following box, with its explanations (in which I have tried to
condense the groups) will respond, I seems, to these questions [6].

FIRST
GROUP.

"Wait here in the wood for us," he said to his second in command. "We should be back by dawn.
Of course, if any force of the enemy threatens you, you'll have to do what seems best, and
we'll ride back to General Jackson alone."

The ten went on a bit farther, using extreme care lest they run into a Northern picket.  Fortunately
the fringe of wood, in which they found shelter, continued to a point near the river, and as
they went forward quietly they saw many lights.  They heard also a great tumult, a mixture
of many noises, the rumbling of cannon and wagon wheels, the cracking of drivers' whips by
the hundreds and hundreds, the sounds of drivers swearing many oaths, but swearing together
and in an unbroken stream.

They rode to the crest of the hill, where they were well hidden among oaks and beeches, and
there the whole scene burst upon them.  The late moon had brightened, and many stars had come
out as if for their especial benefit.  They saw the broad stream of the Potomac shining like
silver and spanned by a bridge of boats, on which a great force, horse, foot, artillery, and
wagons, was crossing.

"That's McClellan's army," said Harry.

"And coming into Virginia," said Sherburne.  "Well, we can't help their entering the state,
but we can make it a very uncomfortable resting place for them."

"How many men do you suppose they have?"

"A hundred thousand here at the least, and others must be crossing elsewhere.  But don't you
worry, Harry.  We've got seventy thousand men of our own, and Lee and Jackson, who, as you
have been told before, are equal to a hundred thousand more.  McClellan will march out again
faster than he has marched in."

"Still, he's shown more capacity than the other Union generals in the East, and his soldiers
are devoted to him."

"But he isn't swift, Harry.  While he's thinking, Lee and Jackson have thought and are acting.
Queer, isn't it, that a young general should be slow, and older ones so much swifter.  Why,
General Lee must be nearly old enough to be General McClellan's father."

"It's so, Captain, but those men are crossing fast.  Listen how the cannon wheels rumble! 
And I know that a thousand whips are cracking at once.  They'll all be on our soil to-morrow."

"So they will, but long before that time we'll be back at General Jackson's tent with the news
of their coming."

"If nothing gets in the way.  Do you remember that man whom we saw on the hill watching, the
one who I said was Shepard, the ablest and most daring of all their spies?"

"I haven't forgotten him."

"This man Shepard, Captain, is one of the most dangerous of all our enemies.  The Union could
much more easily spare one of its generals than Shepard.  He's omniscient.  He's a lineal descendant
of Argus, and has all the old man's hundred eyes, with a few extra ones added in convenient
places.  He's a witch doctor, medicine man, and other things beside.  I believe he's followed
us, that some way he's picked up our trail somewhere.  He may have been hanging on the rear
of the troop when we came through the gorge."

"Nonsense, Harry, you're turning the man into a supernatural being."

"That's just the way I feel about him."

"Then, if that's the case, we'd better be clearing out as fast as we can.  We've seen enough,
anyhow.  We'll go straight back to the company and ride hard for the camp."

They reached the troop, which was waiting silently under the command of the faithful Marlowe.
But before they could gallop back toward the south, the loud, clear call of a trumpet came
from a point near by, and it was followed quickly by the beat of many hoofs.

"I see him!  It's Shepard," exclaimed Harry excitedly.

He had beheld what was almost the ghost of a horseman galloping among the trees, followed in
an instant by the more solid rush of the cavalry.

It was evident to both Sherburne and Harry that the Federal pickets and outriders had acquired
much skill and alertness, and they urged the troop to its greatest speed. 

I left Cochabamba July 2 to conduct my business. I climbed the mountain first Tiquipaya, even
Tutulima found no obstacles in my way. Leaving this place, last lived, walked through the
side of the river and cerranía Tutulima of Paracti, finding on the other side of the Yuracarés nation,
with whom I built a canoe continuing then the river Securi, I, at forty days of excruciating journey,
to the province Moxos completely satisfied with the successful outcome of my adventure resolution.

Meanwhile,
my company had been frowned upon by some employees of Moxos, which
being sent from Santa Cruz de la Sierra, worry did not stop with the
establishment of a more abbreviated communication by way of Cachabamba.

Awaked the old rivalries and Then came a sad event to mess up the forecast.

Col. Davila, whom I had left in Cochabamba, and soon to depart for Moxos with mission to operate
the numerous reforms, which in concert with him we had Mr. Carrasco
indicated the benefit of the unfortunate inhabitants of this province,
had to succumb to strong impulses that had befallen colic in the evening
before their departure, to the Within hours of being in your home
from a party.

Such was the sad news brought by canoes, which had gone for Isiboro. I saw it with feeling
that is rendered useless much effort as I had done to get the improvement of the condition of
indigenous inhabiting these remote regions.

On September 8, following the course of the river Piray, I found the bishop of Santa-Cruz,
which was commissioned by the government to visit the province of Moxos, to extirpate in her religious
abuse. A sandbar toilet served us for twenty-four hours, at which period had a long conference
with Mr. Cordova illustrísimo, educated personage and very friendly,
about the sorry state of the province of Moxos, telling me means I
appeared as leading to the sauté of abuse of all kinds, ranging daily
auento.

I then tried a moment of satisfaction, finding in this worthy prelate protector solicitous of
humanity, ready to bring into play all the strings to make ends both wanted, improving the condition
of the Indians.

I found myself in Moxos in 1832, Mr. Carmelo Rivera, acting governor of the province, tried to
suppress the riots and purge the country of those speculators and dishonest employees, taking
to do a crackdown. Sent wagered on all roads, emissaries charge of possession of the canoes loaded,
then check in the capital goods the year that they drove. This measure failed to produce the
desired effect.

All managers were caught with more fruit on his property, that the party intended to the State,
no testimony was needed lighter lawless that made use of its functions, and the party that drew
the poor Indians, using the authority they had over them to make them work as slaves. Fully
convicted of so much guilt were all dismissed on the spot.

STATE OF THE PROVINCE

Policy Division.

It is to believe, what happened to the missions of Paraguay [1], that
the preservation of Jesuit institutions, under different governments
that have happened in the period sixty-five years has prevented the
destruction of Moxos missions, as well, visiting I the province in
1832, I found, with men as rulers, with different customs prosperity
and well below, all still intact and administrative institutions religious
missionaries who had left in 1767, a time of their expulsion.

With the suppression of four missions, under the administration of the priests [1], and the
creation del Carmen and San-Ramon-time governors [2], the province currently consists thirteen
inhabited areas, which are generally divided into two parties, one called Mamore and Pampas
and the other Itonama and Baures. The first consists of Trinidad, Loreto, San-Xavier, St. Ignatius,
San-Pedro, of exaltation, of Santa Ana and Kings. The second contains missions San-Ramon, San-Joaquin,
Magdalena, Concepcion and Carmen.

Party Mamore and Pampas.

TRINIDAD.

The mission of Trinidad, one of the oldest in the province, was founded
by the Jesuits in 1687.

She is the center of a vast plain that is located three miles east
of Mamore, and as to two Ivari river, its surroundings, very dry in
the winter and flooded in summer, lack of trees: there towards the
east a large lake, a quarter of a mile distant from people.

Its population, made up of Indians Moxos, amounted, in 1691, the
number of 2200 fifty-three [1], and in 1824 came this mission to be
the capital of the province.

His church is vast and beautiful architecture, though somewhat overloaded with sculptures wood.
The Government House, which has a high floor, is large and quite comfortable. This village similar
to all others in terms of its circulation, exercises the same kind of Concepcion industry and Saint
Xavier.

Its original inhabitants of the nation all moxa, and come to two thousand and four, are kindly
in the extreme, they begin to become civilized and dress and as in inner cities. Some women have
also adopted the dress belt, adjusted at the waist.

Every year for Passover, they leave managers of the province their respective missions, to make
his way to the capital, leading productions of the year. On arrival of each boat, many merchants
who came from Santa-Cruz, attempt to deceive the poor Indians, not
it will heal completely ignoring the value of items received in exchange
for cocoa and other fruits.

Trinidad is the residence of the vicar general of the province, the governor, and secretary
which carries the title of general manager.

Trinity Road to San Xavier.

There are twelve miles from Trinidad to St. Xavier, which is towards
the north, to pave the Instead, it is necessary to cross the plains
on horseback planted here and there carondais palms, While for the
conveyance of goods is lowered as a league and a half, the plain of
west to the river Ivari by which it follows, carrying cargoes canoes.

This river born in the country of Guarayos, crossing to the southeast across the plain, on
more than two degrees long, receiving many tributaries in its course, and then going to four
miles from the Loreto mission, not far from the mission of Trinity, to go and lost an arm of
Mamore; still running some time longer, parallel to the river, before meeting him definitely.
The island formed by these two rivers, is covered with beautiful plantations of bananas, for cassava
and other various fruits, such as cocoa, which also is grown wild in boscages the banks, giving
abundant crops every year. After having continued for half a day Ivari countless rodeos, you get
the Mamore. The junction formed by these rivers is perhaps of all parts of the province, the most
dangerous for seafarers, as chócanse Both strands him with extreme violence, raising tides and
swirling foam, where the flimsy boats sink: every year there are numerous examples of such failures.
From this confluence of the Mamore edges are trimmed with magnificent forests, and also of swamps,
to the port of San-Xavier, which lies about two leagues from the mission.

Trinidad roads to Loreto.

Loreto far little about twelve miles southeast of Trinidad. In the dry season make this journey across
the beautiful plains covered with palm trees here and there carondais.

Firstly it runs along the stream of Trinidad, you pass this on followed
by a period, as a mile away from a stay of the mission, we publish
a thin stream that crosses by a marsh, and a little later the San-Miguel
stay where they are many cattle.

Leaving this place is the middle of the road, cross the San-Miguel Curichi bathed spacious,
and after having traveled two leagues we present the river which at all times Ivari is necessary to
pass in canoes, two leagues beyond is the residence of San-Antonio and the stream of the same
name, amid some bushes, where there are also beautiful pasture. A league of plains is the remainder
of the road from this point to Loreto.

The distance from Trinidad to Loreto, going down the river, is three times larger, and generally
two days are used to make this journey. First the river was up to its confluence Ivari Mamore
arm. Most notable is the contrast that at this point is presented to the eyes the traveler.
The Ivari, coming down from the marshes to the east of the country
of Guarayos clear water very slowly, although black sheen, while the
arm Mamore near muddy red exes run with speed.

You have to walk through this arm as a league, passing through the middle of fields covered with
bananas, to lead in the Mamore. Some of its corners are filled with trees uprooted by the current,
and that have been piling up little by little in those places. In the dry season passes night
on a sandbar, with sand right and left and steep slopes, that continually undermined by water,
usually collapsed with a crash, promoting corpulent waves that failure to fund thrown vessels,
filled with water, damaged the cargo; so the Indians are forced to watch all night, to avoid
damage semejentes. Continuing the journey passes through you pocket two large lakes which
are to the right, and soon comes the big mouth of a river called Securi, coming down from the
mountains of Yuracaré: this river, as wide as the Mamore, and which is more encased riverbed,
was which I discovered when opening the new road from Cochabamba to Moxos. Departing from the
mouth Securi river, to go ahead by the Mamore has finally come to a marsh that is to the right, and
on whose shore is the port of Loreto, located about seven miles the SSE of the mission.

It is composed of two houses that port, the one that is not only a spacious barn to house to travelers,
and the other for the mayor of the port. From this point, which, incidentally for Santa Cruz
de la Sierra or Cachabamba, necessarily attend to the travelers provided of food, goes to Loreto
on horseback through a named extended cacahual, and then a cane to go to a marsh covered with trees,
where it is necessary to bend at every step to avoid the vines, besides taking care not to
trip on the swollen roots that adorn all the ground. It then presents a floodplain, in which
the horses are put to the knees.

A league of port is the residence of Nevis, where there are many cattle, and after to cross
a stream deep enough, you follow a boscage thin and full of water, leading Finally in a flooded
marsh in which water gets to the meetings of the horse. Is need to go at a gallop down the middle
of the marshes and forests to palm carondais get in Loreto. The horses are so accustomed to
these roads, walking for them as safe as the mules in the mountains, and is something that really
surprised to see them save with such skill holes covering all that ground. Finally, after
Tico had crossed the river, through a bridge of logs, is cast in Loreto dismounted.

LORETO.

Our Lady of Loreto, the oldest mission in the province, was founded by the Jesuits in 1684
[1], not far from the Mamore and quite apart from the site it occupies today. Composite Indians
who speak the dialects of moxa, had in 1691 three thousand eight hundred twenty souls. Having moved
in the different times it has been definitely established, after the expulsion of the Jesuits,
between the rivers Tico é Ivari, distant ten leagues the reunion
of the latter river with the arm of the Mamore, and within a beautiful
plain partly trimmed trees, but too wet in summer.

Built like the other missions Moxos, Loreto has a vast and beautiful church, and a chapel attached
to the exterior, near the cemetery. In countries where people content themselves with wild fruits,
it seems very rare to find tree plantations fruit, as in this population, which has a beautiful garden
in which there are guaporus, guyavos, custard apples and other bushes covered with flowers more
colorful. The inhabitants, belonging to the nation of Moxos, and are now reduced the number of
two thousand one hundred forty-five are very industrious and honest.

Moreover, this mission shares the same conditions as other comprising the province.

SAN-FRANCISCO XAVIER.

Jesuits founded the mission of that name in 1690, on the west bank of the river Mamore between the mouths
of rivers and distant Tijamuchi Aper and about eight miles north of Trinidad. To visit the
governor of Santa Cruz in 1691, found in her two thousand three hundred and sixty and souls
that number later accretion to three thousand.

After the expulsion of the Jesuits, this mission was transferred
to the opposite bank, on a broader floodplain in parts, and where
a small stream that communicates with the Mamore facilitates navigation
in the period of rainfall.

The buildings of St.-Xavier de Moxos are still provisional, the school consists only of a low
floor, and the only thing remarkable there is a cross COAB, embedded with the bright pearl from
the shells of fresh water. Industry, compared with the other cantons, is in very good condition,
the tissues are higher and the work joinery and pearl inlays run with much expertise. Its population,
which consists today of 1515 inhabitants of the nation moxa, is also a farmer and harvest large
amount of cocoa annually. These natives are generally good-natured, but somewhat fanatical.
In 1833 had by an Indian chief instructed to play fairly well as a director, and whose integrity
to every test was the most estimable your clothes. St. Xavier is the more uncomfortable by mosquitoes,
to whose stubborn attacks the inhabitants are accustomed, but which are a torment to the travelers
newcomers. The abundance of these insects comes from the vast floodplains, where they form swamps
and temporary lakes covered with reeds.

In 1832 this mission possessed six thousand one hundred seventy-one cattle, one hundred forty
and three horses, donkeys eight hundred and forty-six goats, fifty-one sheep and ten and eight pigs.

Camino
de San-San-Pedro Xavier.

Saint Pierre is located twelve miles north of San-Xavier, in the prolongation of eastern plains of
the Rio Mamore. This journey is done on horseback in the dry season in the rainy season and
to transport goods, it is necessary to do down in dugout canoes by
the Mamore River.

Leaving San-Xavier, takes a stream that winds through the plain between carondais palm groves, and
after having gone about two miles, you come in a marsh on which is the port, which is only
distinguished by their booth and the countless boats moored in it:
there is input immediately Mamore.

Offers this vast river at that point, the same look as above, ie
that its banks are composed modern land also, and are covered by wetlands
which crosses many times to shorten the road, or for not having to
fight against the tide when he travels upstream.

This will reach the port of San-Pedro, far more than a league of the population, whither goes
horseback. In times of rising, pass two streams on rafts made of leather, leads to a naked
Indian to swim to the opposite bank. In the province of Corrientes, and almost all of America,
its value this shaky boat, which is not possible make a move without risk of tipping.


"Nothing's the matter with me, and I don't know where the others are. But, Arthur, I've got
to see General Jackson at once!  Where is he?"

Harry's manner was enough to impress his comrade, who knew him so well.

"This way," he said.  "Not more than four or five hundred yards. There, that's General Jackson's
tent!"

Harry leaped from his horse as he came near and made a rush for the tent.  The flap was open,
but a sentinel who stood in front put up his rifle, and barred the way.  A low monotone came
from within the tent.

"The General's praying," he said.  "I can't let you in for a minute or two."

Harry took off his hat and stood in silence while the two minutes lasted.  All his haste was
suddenly gone from him.  The strong affection that he felt for Jackson was tinged at times
with awe, and this awe was always strongest when the general was praying.  He knew that the
prayer was no affectation, that it came from the bottom of his soul, like that of a crusader,
asking forgiveness for his sins.

The monotone ceased, the soldier took down his rifle which was held like a bar across the way,
and Harry, entering, saluted his general, who was sitting in the half light at a table, reading
a little book, which the lad guessed was a pocket Bible.

Harry saluted and Jackson looked at him gravely.

"You've come back alone, it seems," he said, "but you've obeyed my instructions not to come
without definite news?"

"I have, sir."

"What have you seen?"

"We saw the main army of General McClellan crossing the Potomac at Berlin.  He must have had
there a hundred thousand men and three or four hundred guns, and others were certainly crossing
elsewhere."

"You saw all this with your own eyes?"

"I did, sir.  We watched them for a long time.  They were crossing on a bridge of boats."

"You are dusty and you look very worn.  Did you come in contact with the enemy?"

"Yes, sir.  Many of their horsemen were already on this side of the river, and this morning
I was pressed very hard by a troop of their cavalry.  I gained a wood, but just at the edge
of it my horse was killed by a chance shot."

"Your horse killed?  Then how could you escape from cavalry?"

"Chance favored me, sir.  I dodged them for a while in the woods and underbrush, helped by
gullies here and there, and when I came to the edge of the wood only a single horseman was
near me.  I hid behind a tree and knocked him out of the saddle as he was riding past."

"I hope you did not kill him."

"I did not.  He was merely stunned.  He will have a headache for a day or two, and then he
will be as well as ever.  I jumped on his horse and galloped here as straight and fast as I could."

A faint smile passed over Jackson's face.

"You were lucky to make the exchange of horses," he said, "and you have done well.  The enemy
comes and our days of rest are over.  Do you know anything of Captain Sherburne and his troop?"

"Captain Sherburne, under the urgency of pursuit, scattered his men in order that some of them
at least might reach you with the news of General McClellan's crossing.  I was the first detached,
and so I know nothing of the others."

"And also you were the first to arrive.  I trust that Captain Sherburne and all of his men
will yet come.  We can ill spare them."

"I truly hope so, sir."

"You need food and sleep.  Get both.  You will be called when you are needed.  You have done
well, Lieutenant Kenton."

"Thank you, sir."

Harry, saluting again, withdrew. 

Almost going to fight with the fury of his opinions and his rival in love, when Canto distracted
his attention. Rid of the drum was embedded in his head and wiped the blood from his forehead. He
wept with rage rage weak, capable of the greatest revenge, but it feels like a slave while his impotence.

-
To me! Me! - Moaned amazed this attack.

Suddenly he bent over, looking for stones in the Febrer dark to throw against, and each stone
was down some steps to defend against further aggression. The pebbles, dismissed by their weak
arms were lost in the shadow or bounce off the porch.

Then whistled no more stones. Some friends sang it almost dragged in the dark. Their cries were
heard in the distance, uttering threats, swore revenge ... "I'd kill the stranger! He just put
an end to the Spaniard !...»

He remained motionless, one hand on the belt, among so many enemies. He felt ashamed of his outburst.
Hitting the poor consumptive! ... To quell his remorse, he uttered aloud superb low challenges.
"Another wanted him to have sung !...» and her eyes sought to Ferrer
but the dreaded Verro was gone.

When Febrer, half an hour later, and the tumult subsided, he returned
to his tower, he stopped several Sometimes on the road, with the revolver
in his right hand as if expecting someone.

No!

II

The next morning, just after sunrise, he ran the Chaplain in search of Don Jaime, revealing in
his gesture to enter the tower the importance of the news that he carried.

Can Mallorquí everyone had had a bad night. Margalida crying, the mother had complained incessantly about
what happened. Lord!

What people think of them knowing the paddock home in the men stuck in a tavern! What say
the atlotas of his daughter! ... But a little worried Margalida the
opinion of her friends.

Else seemed interested: something that could not quite say, but did shed tear after tear. The
Pep but then closing the door of the house, had walked more than an hour in the kitchen muttering
words and clenching his fists. "That Don Jaime! ... Strive to get what was impossible! ... Stubborn
as all yours! ...

The Chaplain had not slept, feeling born in thinking small wild cunning
and suspicious, a suspicion that gradually took the reality of a certainty.

Upon

entering the tower immediately communicated their thoughts to Don Jaime. Who believed him who was the author
of the song offensive? Cannot? ... Well, no sir: it was Ferrer. Verses had invented the other,
but the intent was malicious verre.

This was suggested by insulting the idea that Don Jaime in full procession, with the assurance
that no the grievance would go unpunished. Since the boy was clear the real reason for the interview
the two suitors that he had been surprised in the bush.

Febrer welcomed with a shrug this news, which the Chaplain attached
great importance.

So what?

... The singer was insolent and punished, and as for the Verro, had fled their challenges to
the door of the house. He was a coward.

Pepet shook his head in disbelief. Ojo, Don Jaime! He knew the habits of brave land, the tricks
that are worth to ensure impunity for their revenge. Should remain on guard, now more than ever.
The Ferrer knew what the prison, and did not want to return.

I just made Verros others had done before.

Jaime grew impatient with the mysterious and confusing words of the boy.

- For which openly! ... Speak!

The Chaplain explained at length his suspicion. And the blacksmith could do whatever he wanted against
Don Jaime: I could wait in ambush in tamarisk at the foot of the tower and kill with one stone.
Suspicion immediately be directed against sang, remembering the question occurred at the farm and
his words of revenge.

With this and the Verro prepare an alibi moving at full speed for shortcuts to some distant point
where all might see him, it would easy to fulfill his vengeance, in safety.

- Ah! - Febrer said getting surly, as if suddenly understood the full
importance of such words.

The boy, pleased with his superiority, continued to give advice.

Don Jaime was living forward less sloppy, close the door of his tower, ignore, only the arrival night,
the cries from outside. Verro pretend surely induce out of the dark with shouts of defiance,
with Auque challenge.

- Although he Auque at night, you still, Don Jaime. I know that - continued Chaplain the importance
of a hardened Verro -. I scream from outside, hidden in the bushes, with the gun ready, and
if it goes, before I can see you will kill with a pistol.

You still in the tower.

These recommendations were for the night.

By day, the Lord could come without fear. There he was to accompany him everywhere. Stood with vanity
war, taking a hand to brace ensure that the knife had not disappeared, but was immediately disappointed
to see mocking gesture of gratitude Febrer.

- Laugh, Don Jaime, búrlese me, but something I can I serve ... See for yourself how you notice
now in danger. You have to live on their guard. With a bad idea it has prepared Ferrer of the
song.

And looking around, as a leader who is prepared to repel a long siege. Their eyes met the gun
hanging from the wall between the shell ornaments. Very good! Was loaded with ball both barrels,
and over a handful of slugs or large buckshot. It never hurts. So did his glorious grandfather.
Then he frowned when he saw the gun left on the table.

Very bad! Small arms are to carry over at all hours. He slept with the knife on the belly.
What if the enemy came suddenly without giving him time to find the gun? ...

The tower, which had witnessed other executions and battles centuries of pirates, shell empty tragic
stone concealed by the sharp enjalbegadura the walls, then brought boy's attention.

Went to the door with slow caution, as if an enemy waiting for him at the foot of the stairs
and hiding the body on the edge of the wall, advancing only one eye and part of the front. Then
shook his head in dismay.

When he looked out at night, even with these tricks, the enemy, lurking below, could see him,
pointing his elbows comfortably on a branch or a stone, without fear
of losing the shot.

Worse was yet to throw the body out of the door and pretend to fall. For it was dark night,
the enemy might choose a focus, a patch of foliage, a star on the horizon, something in the
dark overhang that stands next to the stairs.

And as he passed the black bulk of coming down, obscuring for a moment object pointed ... Room
fire safe! Teachings were heard from men who had serious last for months after a bank or shelter of
a tree, with the butt cheek next to and the eye at the end of the barrel, from sunset till dawn,
waiting for a old friend.

No, the Chaplain did not like this door with his outdoor staircase.

We had to seek way out, and his eyes went to the window, then opening it to lean to it.

With simian agility, laughing at his discovery, he jumped on the windowsill and began down by
the wall, looking for hand and foot masonry inequalities, alveoli deep as stepping stones left
by rolling boulders detached from the mortar. Febrer looked out the window, and saw him at the foot
of the tower picking up his hat was down and shaking it aloft with triumphant expression. Then
the boy ran around the base of the tower, and their footsteps echoed shortly afterwards lively
trot on the steps of wood near the door.

- If it's easier! - Shouted as he entered the room, flushed with excitement
about his discovery -.

If it is a step gentlemen ...

Realizing the importance of his discovery, made a serious gesture of mystery. This remained
between the two: not a word to anyone. It was a nice departure, which was secretly to save.

The Chaplain envied Don Jaime. Not having him as an enemy to come there for aucarlo night! ...
While Ferrer ambushed howl, his eyes fixed on the ladder, he would fall the window, behind the
tower and turning silently would hunt the hunter. What a shock! ... Laughed with savage pleasure,
and dark red lips seemed to wake up trembling ferocity of the glorious grandparents, who had seen
the man hunt the noblest of the exercises.

Febrer felt infected by the savage joy of the boy. If the tried to go down the window! ... He
took the legs out of the sill, and slowly, hindered by their mature corpulence, was feeling
the inequalities of the wall with the toes up find the holes that formed steps. Gradually fell,
rolling under his feet some loose stones, until at last set foot on the ground with a sigh.
Very good! The descent was easy, after a few trials would fall so easily as Chaplain. He,
who had followed him swiftly, descending almost over his head, smiling like a teacher satisfied
with the lesson, and returns to repeat his advice.

Not Don Jaime's forget! Anearan barely outside, should lie down window, catching from behind
the opposite.

When left alone Febrer noon, he felt possessed by a desire Belize, aggressiveness that made him
look for a long time the piece of wall hanging gun.

At the foot of the promontory, on the beach where the boat was beached Uncle Guster, rang this
voice singing the mass. Febrer appeared at the door, taking both hands to his mouth as a speaker
and shouted.

The sailor, with the help of a boy threw his boat into the water. The candle, collection, shaking
at the top of the mast. Jaime did not accept the invitation. "Thank you, Uncle Guster!" This
insisted the little voice coming through the air like the distant
wail of a child.

The evening was good, had changed the wind near the Vedrá going to catch fish in abundance.
Febrer shrugged. "No, thank you very much, had to do."

As he spoke, when the Chaplain was presented for the second time in the tower, leading food.
The boy looked sulky and sad. His father, enraged by the scene night before, had chosen him
as a victim, to vent his anger. "An injustice, Don Jaime! "shouted walking through the kitchen,
while women, with watery eyes shrunk air, seemed to escape his gaze. Everything happened so attached
to their softness character, his goodness, but was to remedy this immediately. The courtship was
suspension: admitted no parades or visits.

As for the Chaplain! ... This poor child disobedient and rebellious, was to blame for everything.

Pep
was not sure how he could have influenced the presence of his son in the scandal the previous
night, but remembered his resistance to becoming a priest, his escape from the Seminar and the
memory of these troubles aroused his anger, making the concentrate on the boy. It finished
the regard and kindness! Next Monday would lead the seminar. If you thought resist and flee a
second time, the better for him to embark on and forget that boy had a father, then saw him return
to the farm, Pep was able to break both legs with the bar of the door. And by sheer relief, accustomed
to go hand and give a sample of his future anger, he took off a few
slaps and kicks, thus claiming experienced disgust at seeing time
before reaching Ibiza fugitive.

The Chaplain, shrunken and patient by custom, took refuge in a corner
behind the wall of petticoats and skirts that opposed the weeping
mother's fury Pep.

But look now the tower and remember the offense, gnashed his teeth, eyes, cheeks livid and clenched
fists.

"What injustice! So stick to men for no reason, just to relieve the poor humor? ... To him,
who carried a knife in his belt and was not afraid of anyone on the island! All because he was
the father !...»

Ay! This of paternity and filial respect were for the Chaplain inventions at the time of cowards,
created solely to harass and vilify men of heart. And on top of the beatings, humiliating to
the dignity of the brave, the completeness of closure at the Seminar,
the black robe, like the skirts of women, and cropped hair, losing
forever those arrogant poking loops under the brim of his hat, the
tonsure, which would infuse a cold laugh or respect for atlotas, and
dances and dating goodbye! Goodbye knife! ...

Soon cease to see Don
Jaime. Within a week they would take him to Ibiza. Others he would
rise food to the tower ... Febrer made a revealing gesture of hope.
Perhaps Margalida as in the past! But the Chaplain, despite his sadness,
he smiled mischievously. No, Margalida not, all except her. Well,
I was the only pampering Pep! When poor mother, to defend his atlot,
timidly talked how necessary it was the boy at home to serve the Lord,
Pep broke in new rants. He himself would to carry all day at the Tower
of Don Jaime food, and if not his wife, and if not seek atlota that
could serve as a servant to this gentleman, and who insisted on living
near them.

He said no more the Chaplain, but the words Febrer guessed
that the good peasant should have released against him. I forgot,
driven by anger, his former respect, he felt enraged by the disruption
entailed in the family with his presence.

The boy returned to the
farm mumbling vindictive purposes, vowing not to go to seminary even
know how to get it. Their resistance took suddenly a guard tone chivalry.
Leaving his friend Don Jaime when he was surrounded by dangers! ...
Go to enclosed in that big of sadness, between lords black skirts
who spoke a strange language, now in the countryside, sunlight or
the mystery of the night were to kill the men! ... Occur as extraordinary
events and do not see it! ...

When Febrer was alone, he picked up
the gun and spent a long time examining the door idly. His thoughts
were far, far away from the ends of the canyons, which seemed to point
to the mountain ... "That blacksmith! That insufferable bully !...»

Harry, as he listened to the prayer, felt a deep and overwhelming sense of solemnity and awe.
He felt that it was at once a petition and a presage.  Sitting there in the half dark mighty
events were foreshadowed.  It seemed to him that they were about to enter upon a struggle more
terrible than any that had gone before, and those had been terrible beyond the anticipation
of anybody.

The omens did not fail.  Jackson's army marched the next morning, turning southward along the
turnpike in order to effect the junction with Lee and Longstreet.  All Winchester had assembled
to bid them farewell, the people confident that the army would win victory, but knowing its
cost now.

There was water in Harry's eyes as he listened to the shouts and cheers and saw the young girls
waving the little Confederate flags.

"If good wishes can do anything," said Harry, "then we ought to win."

"So we should.  I'm glad to have the good wishes, but, Harry, when you're up against the enemy,
they can't take the place of cannon and rifles.  Look at Colonel Talbot and Lieutenant-Colonel
St. Hilaire. See how straight and precise they are.  But both are suffering from a deep disappointment.
They started their chess game again last night, Colonel Talbot to make the first move with
his king, but before he could decide upon any course with that king the orders came for us
to get ready for the march.  The chessmen went into the box, and they'll have another chance,
probably after we beat Burnside."

They went on up the valley, through the scenes of triumphs remembered so well.  All around
them were their battlefields of the spring, and there were the massive ridges of the Massanuttons
that Jackson had used so skillfully, not clothed in green now, but with the scanty leaves of
closing autumn.

Neither Harry nor any of his comrades knew just where they were going. That secret was locked
fast under the old slouch hat of Jackson, and Harry, like all the others, was content to wait.
Old Jack knew where he was going and what he meant to do.  And wherever he was going it was
the right place to go to, and whatever he meant to do was just the thing that ought to be done.
His extraordinary spell over his men deepened with the passing days.

As they went farther southward they saw sheltered slopes of the mountains where the foliage
yet glowed in the reds and yellows of autumn, "purple patches" on the landscape.  Over ridges
to both east and west the fine haze of Indian summer yet hung.  It was a wonderful world, full
of beauty.  The air was better and nobler than wine, and the creeks and brooks flowing swiftly
down the slopes flashed in silver.

There were no enemies here.  The people, mostly women and children--nearly all the men had
gone to war--came out to cheer them as they passed, and to bring them what food and clothing
they could.  The Valley never wavered in its allegiance to the South, although great armies
fought and trod back and forth over its whole course through all the years of the war.

They turned east and defiled through a narrow pass in the mountains, where the sheltered slopes
again glowed in yellow and gold.  Jackson, in somber and faded gray, rode near the head of
the corps on his faithful Little Sorrel, his chin sunk upon his breast, his eyes apparently
not seeing what was about them, the worn face somber and thoughtful.  Harry knew that the great
brain under the old slouch hat was working every moment, always working with an intensity and
concentration of which few men were ever capable.  Harry, following close behind him, invariably
watched him, but he could never read anything of Jackson's mind from his actions.

Then came the soldiers in broad and flowing columns, that is, they seemed to Harry, in the
intense autumn light, to flow like a river of men and horses and steel, beautiful to look on
now, but terrible in battle. 

I.

There was, in very remote times in which we live is a powerful
king, loved to end their subjects, and possessed of a fertile, extensive
and populous kingdom in the regions beyond East.

King had this immense treasure, and gave lavish parties.
 Listen to it!"

    "Southrons hear your country call you;
     Up, lest worse than death befall you!
     To arms!  To arms!  To arms in Dixie!
     Lo! all the beacon fires are lighted--
     Let all hearts now be united!
     To arms!  To arms!  To arms in Dixie!"

The chorus of the battle song, so little in words, so great in its thrilling battle note, was
taken up by more than a score of thousand, and the vast volume of sound, confined in narrow
defiles, rolled like thunder, giving forth mighty echoes.  Harry was moved tremendously and
he saw Jackson himself come out of his deep thought and lift up his face that glowed.

"It's certainly great," said Dalton to Harry.  "It would drag a man from the hospital and send
him into battle.  I know now how the French republican troops on the march felt when they heard
the Marseillaise."

"But the words don't seem to me to be the same that I heard at Bull Run."

"No, they're not; but what does it matter?  That thrilling music is always the same, and it's
enough."

Already the origin of the renowned battle song was veiled in doubt, and different versions
of the words were appearing; but the music never changed and every step responded to it.

The army passed through the defile, entered another portion of the valley, forded a fork of
the Shenandoah, crossed the Luray Valley, and then entered the steep passes of the Blue Ridge.
Here they found autumn gone and winter upon them.  As the passes rose and the mountains, clothed
in pine forest, hung over them, the soft haze of Indian summer fled, and in its place came
a low, gray sky, somber and chill.  Sharp winds cut them, but the blood flowed warm and strong
in their veins as they trod the upward path between the ridges.  Once more a verse of the defiant
Dixie rolled and echoed through the lofty and bleak pine forest:

    "How the South's great heart rejoices
     At your cannon's ringing voices;
         To arms!
     For faith betrayed, and pledges broken,
     Wrongs inflicted, insults spoken
         To arms!
     Advance the flag of Dixie."

Now on the heights the last shreds and patches of autumn were blown away by the winds of winter.
The sullen skies lowered continually.  Flakes of snow whirled into their faces, but they merely
bent their heads to the storm and marched steadily onward.  They had not been called Jackson's
Foot Cavalry for nothing.  They were proud of the name, and they meant to deserve it more thoroughly
than ever. 

Rivera after he saw the Adelantado determined to go with the whole army to the provinces we
had been, and the soldiers did not want to, and less time that the whole province was flooded, and
many who were with us, ill. Queríale little people and he got along well with her, because
she had never had a job of importance [35]. They gave very high fever in the two months we were
in Sococies, and while there was dead, we would have little meaning. I did not find in this
province no pass of 40 Indian or 50 years because it is as sick as the Santo Tomas. Is located
below the topic Capricorn, where the sun is high. I saw the truck in it, or the Ursa Major
constellation which we had lost sight of when we sail near the island of Santiago and Cape Verde
[36].

Improved Advance, commanded arm 150 Christians, that 2,000 Indians were in four brigs to the
island of Sococies, which is four leagues, and kill them, or catch all and especially that
they had 40 or 50 years. We came suddenly to his people: left of their houses to greet peace
with their bows and arrows, but rising dependence between them and Carias, shoot the artillery,
killing a lot number: intrigued about 2.000 young men and women, sacked the town, and executed the
above, with great injury of those poor Indians who had treated us so well, we returned to the
Head, which approved the act; and seeing most of its people sick and weak, and he had little
liking, [37] returned to her by the Paraguay river, to the city of the Assumption, where he
repeated fever, and in fourteen days not leave the house, but by pride than by his illness, treating
poorly and with little decency to the soldiers, to be addressed peacefully, giving no roughness
orders [38] answered them all with gentleness, making them believe it was more prudent and virtuous
subjects.

CHAPTER XL.

He is a prisoner Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca, and sent to the king, and instead chose Domingo
de Irala.

Seeing the people neglected by Alvar Nuñez, unanimously determined, noble and commoner, send
King prisoner, telling him that he had behaved badly in the government.

And they went into his house the day of San Marcos, Alonso de Cabrera, Francisco de Mendoza y
Garcia Vanegas with 200 soldiers, and seized him when he least suspicious: [39] Tuviéronle imprisoned
a year, until prevented a caravel with food supplies, sailors and other necessary things to send
to the Emperor with two other gentlemen.

Later elected to the city by Captain Domingo de Irala, who had ruled before, and it was very
loved by the soldiers, who approved the election, except some of
the relatives and family Alvar Nuñez, that was not the case.

Then I was with dropsy, which was what I got Urtuesa to the day, and 80 who became ill, only
30 were cured.

CHAPTER XLI.

Discord of the Christians, the Carians provisions against them: and Nagases Yapirús Spanish
help.

Alvar Nunez sent to Spain, began among Christians so much discord that neither wanted the good
of another: it was all quarrels and disputes, but in none more than a year he wandered insurance
or noises caused excuses for having sent to Spain to Alvar Nuñez. The Carias, until then our
friends, had great pleasure in seeing us fight, and tried to kill us all, or drive us out of
the province.

All the province of the cavities with others, and Agac, rose up against us, for which, set out, we
returned to the union first, and made peace with the Yapirús and Nagases, 5.000 Indian nations
that would have war. They are warring on land and sea, no more food hunting and fishing, and guns
are on average throws darts, not so thick, tipped flint. They use a girdle worn under a suit
of four spans, and the edge; a ball or knot.

They also have other weapons of an inch long, with an armed tips
wide tooth fish called pomfret, similar to our tench.

This tooth is acute: of these weapons used in the following way.

Begin the battle with the darts, when they follow the enemy, throw the stick to running the feet
to fall: if it falls dead or alive, they cut off his head with great alacrity, then saved the
tooth on the belt, or in what they wear for this effect, then head to remove all the skin, hair,
dry and put him in a long pole hanging in the temples, in memory of his feat, as our captains do
with their trophies.

Finally came to help Indian warriors 1.000 Nagases Yapirús and served us with pleasure and profit.

CHAPTER
XLII.

Tooth decay due to the Christians, aided by the Yapirús and Nagases, earning them Froemidiere and Acaraiba.

We
left the Assumption, with our General, 350 Christians, and the 1000 Indians, distributed so, always
three goes to a Christian: we three leagues of Carias were 15.000, governed by their chief
Mayrairú, and although we went half a league of them envestida not be tired by the way, and very
wet from the rain continued: ocultámonos in a forest, where we had spent the night.

At six o'clock the next day, we began to march, and at seven the envestida: The battle lasted
until ten, who fled precipitately to get into Froemidiere, [40] people who had fortified,
four leagues away, leaving dead 2.000, whose heads took the Yapirús. Of us died ten, and some
injuries that we send to the Assumption, others follow the enemy until Froemidiere, where he had
put the chief Mayrairú with Indians. Had the fortified village as walls, with three tiers
of logs, thick as a man, a state of high, had also made holes, as those remaining these, and
in each one, five or six stakes set and sharpened like needles. It was fine strengthened, with
strong Indian garrison: tuvímosle besieged three days in vain. We over 400 large round shields,
the hides of the sheep, pig, called guanaco: is so big this animal like a horse medium blue,
not pati-tended, in else like the ass, and good food. Her skin is a half finger thick, and there
many in this province. These shields Yapirús we gave some Indians, with a sickle, and between two Indians
would put a harquebusier. Between two three rushed to the people, by three parts, and at three hours,
destroyed the palisades, we, with great slaughter in Indian wives and kids, although most of
them fled to Acaraiba, his people, I was twenty leagues Froemidiere, which had been fortified
as they could. They returned Cavities to assemble the large number, and put his army near a rough
woods, benefit from it if these people also lost. At five in the afternoon we arrived, chasing
the Carias, to Acaraiba and sitiámosle: laying the attacks on three spot, and sentries let
in the forest. Then we got the relief that we had asked to meet the dead and wounded and was 200 Christians
and 500 Yapirús and Nagases of the Assumption, with which our increased Christian army and 1.300
to 450 Indians. They had fortified the Carians sticks to Acaraiba and ditches, much more than other
people, and also had made some instruments such as buzzards, with the people, than if they had
the effect they thought, each would have taken twenty or thirty men. We were on it four days without
doing anything, until a Indian Carlo, who had been his captain, and owned the village, came by night
General, asking with great instance, not destroy it with fire, offering, if allowed, to trace and
method of take. Prometíole the general, who would not receive any
damage, ensuring it met.

Thus showed two paths in the forest they were going to give the people, saying that when fire inside him
to do it, we had to envestida. In the same way that you had tried, be executed: we the people,
and we killed many Indians, and those who believed escape, fleeing, fell into the hands of the Yapirús,
which killed most: their wives and children were free because they
had hidden in a large forest, a mile away.

Those who escaped the massacre, the chief Taber took refuge in his
village, called Hieruquizaba, Acaraiba 40 leagues, we could not follow,
because they were burning and pillaging as they went, removing all
the supplies and food.

We spent four days in Acaraiba, repair work and curing the wounded.

CHAPTER XLIII.

Returned to the Assumption, in charge of another expedition, up the
river on the ships, and to take Hieruquizaba, forgiving to Taber.

We returned to the city of the Assumption, with the intention of repeating the journey down
the river, looking for Hieruquizaba village where he lived the chief
of the Indians, Taber.

In the Assumption were fourteen days, warning of weapons, ammunition, supplies and other things
for the day referred. The general, who already had nearly 60 years of age, sought to increase
Spanish é his Indian army to replace the sick and wounded in the battles and footage of people.

Compúsose
nine navy brigs and 200 canoes, which were 1.500 Yapirús: go up by Paraguay river, to search Hieruquizaba
village, where they had fled caries that far 46 miles of the Assumption, and on this trip we gathered
the chief, who gave the trace taking to Acari, with 1.000 Carias, against Taber.

Willing people on the ground and water, march, and we were two leagues from Hieruquizaba, and
the general sent two Indians say to Taber caries hiciese the fugitives back to town, with their
wives, children and finances, and that should give obedience to the Christians as before:
and if they reused, the would push all of that province.

Taber said that neither knew General, or to those Christians who envistiesen course, that was
to kill, throwing bones against them. Club sent to the ambassadors, and sent them away, threatening
that if no Christians are fleeing, they had to kill.

The general, seeing the failure of his embassy, ​​he marched with all his might, distributed
four squadrons: the river we Ipan, which is as wide as the Danube, is half state of deep, and in
parts more: grow with the flood, so sometimes you can not walk on land.

We had to cross this river, but the Indians were defending this step,
and made us so great harm, if it were not for God's providence, and
the artillery that fired it, would have perished.

But we pass, and the ships reached the other bank, which saw by the Indians, fled to get to
his village, half a league from there. Seguímoslos so fast, almost at the same time we reached
the village Hieruquizaba, which place, so there no one could enter
or leave: use after huanaco shields and axes, as is said, and that
afternoon we entered the village, killing many Indians, and reserving
their wives and children to captives, and had commanded the general.

Many Indians fled the run, and Yapirús friends got the dispossession of 1.000 heads of their
enemies.

Then came the Carians fled with his boss, asking pardon of the general,
and that they restitution of their wives and children, offering obedience,
and serving as before and the general forgave them.

And persevered after steadfast in our service, all the time I was there at that province. This
war lasted half a year, since 1546.

CHAPTER XLIV.

General Turns itself to the Assumption, and go inland for gold and silver.

After the war, became the general with people on the ships to the Assumption, and rest two full
years, provided that in so long ship came from Spain and not be idle general, suggested to
the soldiers if they would have to enter the ground rather than in with a people. All agreed
on what he said, and broke 350 Spanish, to those who offered, if they were with him, together
Indians and take care of clothing, horses and whatever else necessary. Joyful all admitted
the offer: He called the decay, and asked them if he wanted to go
to 2.000?

And the point offered to serve as were required.

After two months, our general left the year 1548, up the Paraguay River with seven brigs and
two hundred canoes. People who did not fit into the ships, was by land, with 130 horses and
he returned to gather near the high, round hill of San Fernando, 92 miles distant from the Assumption,
which inhabit the Payaguá.

Did the general return from there to the Assumption five launches with the canoes, leaving
the other two with 50 Spanish, supplied for two years; by Captain Don Francisco de Mendoza, [41]
in order to stay in that place two years entrusting had great care with the Indians, what should
happen to John Oyola, until you return.

He began his journey with 300 Christians, 130 horses and 2,000 caries, and in eight continuous
days no found a nation. On the ninth, and to the thirty-six miles from Mount San Fernando,
we in Naperús, Indians are kept for hunting and fishing. They are tall and robust. The women
are ugly, and from waist to knee bring a towel. Four days later we arrived at the Mapais, [42]
populous nation. They are so sugetos to their principals, that the Indians needed to serve,
and served in the rustic German nobles.

Have an abundance of fruits of corn, cassava, sweet potatoes, Mandubia,
pacobas, and other roots and things to eat.

There are many deer, sheep, pigs, ostriches, ducks, geese, chickens and other many birds. In the
forests there are many groups, they spend on wine making and other uses, and how walking later,
so much more fertile ground. All year there eating corn and roots in this province.

The sheep, which they call huanacos are of two kinds, domestic and Monte Carlo, that used to
load, horseback riding and other ministries, such as use of the horses, and on this day, for being
bad leg, I walked over forty miles at a time. In Peru, carrying the merchandise in them. [43]
are high and warlike Indians, who only take care of things War: Indian women are beautiful, and walk
covers and background.

Not working in the field, before the Indians are careful to support
the family, home or do more than tect or cotton spinning, or cooking
the food to their husbands, or serve in other nice things which are
also with others easily.

Mbayas came out to receive, less than half a league from this village, next to a lugarillo, where
they said, perfidious and treacherous, that sosegasemos that night, and assist us with what necesitásemos,
and to ensure the treachery which dealt generally gave the three Indian girls four silver crowns,
which tend to bring in the head, and four plates, each half inch
long and half as wide, that are placed on the forehead ornament.

We believed were peace, and we stayed at the lugarillo, and finished dinner and sentinel sites,
sleep until near midnight, the general least three Indian cast, and looking for them, was moved
the army and the Mbayas suspecting evil, secretly ordered the dawn that they were all in its housing
prevented with their weapons, and ready to egecutar what they are commanded.

CHAPTER XLV.

Mbayas peoples, Chan, Toba, Peyonas, Mayegoni, Morrone, Paroni and
Siman.

[44]

Imagining Indians we were sleeping, suddenly rammed us 2.000, which were quickly routed, with the
death of more than half, and the rest fled the village, where quickly followed them and entered
it, but did not find anyone, not their wives and children. General chased with 150 musketeers and
2,500 Indians in a great hurry, for three days and two nights without stopping over to eat and to
rest four or five hours a night.

The third day we took in the woods many Mbayas with their children and wives, but they were not
we sought, but his friends, who did not have the slightest suspicion that they were to them:
no But they paid for the guilty, because when we hit them, killing them and intrigued with
Indian and their children, about 3,000, and it gets dark, no escape, because all the large
number of the people gathered on a hill surrounded by forests. I caught the 19 Indian men and
women stripping not very old, and other things.

We returned to camp where we stayed eight days, because we had enough food. From Mbayas the mountain
of San Fernando, there are 50 leagues, and from the Naperús, 36.

Following the path, we came to the Indians Chanes, subjects of the Mbayas, the way that Germany
to his rustic gentlemen are in this day and planted corn and roots cultivated in this land during
the year: for when you are harvesting, another is maturing and another is planted, and so at any time
in the fields are fresh things to eat. From there we went to another village, whose Indians fled
when they saw us and left us plenty food, we stopped two days, at six miles we came to the
Toba Indians, who had fled, and was well aware of food, are also sugetos to the Mbayas.

We continued the journey without finding any Indians, and to the seven days to reach the nation
of the Peyonas, which is only 14 miles from the Toba. The chief of the village came to greet us
peace, together large crowd of Indians, General fervently, toilets enter the village, putting
your actual site where we received.

But generally not served, and with good words the right way, he wanted
and did not want the boss, he entered the town, he had lots of chickens,
geese, deer, sheep, ostriches, parrots, rabbits and other similar,
much corn and roots, that the land is fertile, but very lack of water,
and silver and gold, which we did not dare to ask, because the other
nations where we were to pass, they did not know what they wanted,
and flee.

Three days we stopped to these Peyonas, and generally informed of
the nature and condition of this province, and to say goodbye gave
us a guide, take us by a way that there is water to drink.

And at four leagues to the nation we call Mayegoni, where we spent a day and taking guide and
language departed. These Indians were very peaceful, and gave us everything we needed. Walks eight
leagues, we came to the nation of Indians Peppers: recibiéronos also of peace, and we two days
with them, and made relation of the nature and quality of land, with new guide we continued
our journey, and at four miles we came to another nation, not so crowded, Paroni call, will Indian
warriors 3.000: there we stopped for a day, but had little food. At twelve miles we enter another
nation, whose natives are called Siman. His people is situated on a high hill and surrounded by
thorns and underbrush as wall. Were assembled many, and we were in war with bows, arrows and
other weapons. His pride was short-lived, it up, deserted their people, having been burned before,
but the fields give us enough food.

CHAPTER XLVI.

Of the Barcones, Leyhanos, Carconos, Sivisicosis and Samocosis.

A 16 miles from this village, we walked in four days, arrived near the town suddenly Barcones
Indians, not knowing we were going, they began to flee, but at our request stopped. We asked food,
and promptly trageron abundantly, chickens, geese, sheep, ostriches, deer and other things, and
very glad we stopped the Indians four days, taking news from the land. Thence in three days,
the Indians entered Leyhanos, nation that lives to twelve miles from the Barcones: had little
victuals, for the locust had destroyed almost all fruit, and not spend what we had, we went to walk
past night and in four days we went 16 leagues, and came to another nation called Carconos, that
although they had suffered the same plague, had more food. Reported in a day we were, that in
24 or 30 miles, which was about the nation of the Indians Sivisicosis, find no water. Reached on the sixth
day, with great difficulty, for although Carconos provided us, were dying of thirst, some
of us, if this trip we did not find a root, which was off the ground, it went out large leaves, which
had water as firm as in a glass, not spilled, or consumed easily, and each have half a pint. Two
hours at night, being near the town of Sivisicosis tried to flee with their Muyeres and children,
but the general dispatched a language, which were still in their homes, and without fear any,
that would do them no harm, and they did. There was great lack of water in that province and
more for not rained in three months to fill the cisterns that collect it, or had rivers, or other
beverage that makes the cassava root, thus: - They missed a mortar crushed roots, and pulled
the milky juice: if it can be water, also make wine from these roots. There was only one well
in this town, when I put the general sentinel, to distribute water to every year, according
to the measurement given by him, and even with these Providence had great work by the lack
of water, and so many, that we remembered gold and silver, everything was crying for water.
This job gave me the grace, favor and kindness many, because their distribution was not very
low, but careful not missing water and only because she has Sivisicosis war with neighbors.
Two days spent in this town and wondering if we were to move forward or become, cast lots, and
went to prosiguiésemos.

Informóse the general land and the Indians said that in six days'
journey would come Samocosis the Indians, and that he would find two
streams good for drinking, thus continued our journey, leading some
Sivisicosis to guides, who fled the first night leaving confusing
to find the way: but you were right, and gave the Indians Samocosis,
we were in war, not wanting to hear peace: but easily routed and fled.

In the battle we turned some, they told us that in that town had
been left sick Juan Oyola three Christians, when he was in recognizing
that land of order of D. Pedro Mendoza (as told at length in Chapter
25). As to these three Christians, One was called Geronimo, and was
a trumpet, said the Samocosis had died four days the before we arrived,
brought by the Sivisicosis. Paid well this evil, as were fourteen
days in town to know where they had retired, and found that they were
in a forest, but not all, went against them, killed many, and intrigued
others, the which informed us about the nature and habits of this
province and his Indians.

CHAPTER XLVII.

Maigenos peoples and Carcokies.


It was well into December when they were watching through the glasses the concentration of
Union cannon on Stafford Heights across the river. One hundred and fifty great guns were in
position there and they could easily blow Fredericksburg to pieces.  Harry looked down again
at this little city which had jumped suddenly into fame by getting itself squarely between
the two armies arrayed for battle.

He felt the old sensation of pity as he gazed at the closed shutters and the smokeless chimneys.
Nobody was stirring in the streets, except some Mississippi soldiers who had been placed there
to oppose the passage, and who were fortifying themselves in the houses and cellars along the
river front.

"It's no good looking any more," Harry said to Dalton.  "There's nothing to do now but wait.
That's what General Jackson is doing.  I saw him in his tent to-day, reading a book on theology
that Dr. Graham has just sent him."

"You're right, Harry.  If the general can rest, so can we.  Well, not much of this day is left.
See how the Yankee batteries are fading away in the twilight."

"Yes, Harry, fading now, but they'll come back again, massive metal and as sinister as ever,
in the morning."

"Which won't keep me from sleeping soundly to-night.  Funny how you get used to anything. 
Neither the presence nor the absence of the Yankee army will interfere with my sleep unless
the general wants to send me on an errand."

"And we also grow used to sights so tremendous in their nature that they turn the whole current
of our history.  Look at that winter sun setting there over the western hills.  It may be my
fancy, Harry, but it seems to have the colors of bronze and steel in it, a sort of menace,
one might call it."

"I see the same colors, George, but I suppose it's fancy.  The whole sky is one of steel to
me.  I see the gleaming of steel everywhere, over the hills, the river and the armies."

"Our imaginations are too vivid, Harry.  But look how that darkness closes in on everything!
Now the Yankee cannon and the Yankee army are gone!  The river itself is fading, and there
goes the town!  Now, see the lights spring up on the far shore!"

"It's supper and sleep for me," said Harry.  "It doesn't do to let your imagination run away
with you.  You know that Lee and Old Jack and Jim Longstreet have arranged for everything."

They ate their suppers, and, the general giving them leave, they lay down in the tent next
to his, wrapped in their blankets.  Harry slept soundly, but while the pitchy darkness of a
winter night still enclosed the land he was awakened by a heavy rumbling noise.  His nerves
had been attuned so highly by exciting days that he was awake in an instant and sprang to his
feet, Dalton also springing up with equal promptness.

They saw General Jackson standing in front of his tent and peering down in the darkness toward
the river.  Other officers were already gathering near him.  Harry and Dalton stood at attention,
where he could see them, if he wished to send them on any errand.  But Jackson was silent and
listening.

The heavy rumbling reports--cannon shots--came again, but they were fired on their side of
the river.

"Gentlemen," said General Jackson, "the enemy has begun the passage. Those are our guns giving
the signal to the army."

Harry's pulses began to throb.  But, although fires flared up here and there, little was to
be seen in the darkness.  Fortune seemed to have shifted suddenly to the side of the Union.
Not night alone protected the bridge builders, but a thick, impenetrable fog, rising from the
river and the muddy earth, covered the stream and its shores.  The Southerners could not see
just where the bridge head was and their cannon must fire at random through the heavy darkness.
Sixteen hundred Mississippians were stationed in Fredericksburg below, well concealed in cellars
and rifle pits, but they could not see either, and for the present their rifles were silent.

But Harry's imagination immediately became intensely vivid again. He fancied that he could
hear through all the shifting gloom the sound of axes and hammers and saws at work upon that
bridge.  These army engineers could throw a bridge across a river in half a day.  He recognized
at all times the great resources and the mechanical genius of the North.  The South had good
bridge builders herself, but she had bent all her powers to the development of public men and
soldiers.  Harry felt more intensely all the time the one-sided character of her growth and
its defects.

Dalton stood by Harry's side, and the darkness was so intense that he seemed but a shadow.
A little further away was Jackson.  No fires had been lighted in his camp, but nevertheless
he was not a shadow.  That personality, quiet and modest, was so intense, so powerful that
it seemed to Harry to become luminous, to radiate light in the blackness of the night.  It
was imagination, he knew, at work again, but it was Jackson who had loosed its springs.

"Can you see your watch, George?" he whispered to Dalton.

"Yes, and its says only twenty minutes past three in the morning."

"And our signal guns began about twenty minutes ago.  They will have nearly four hours in which
to work before the sun rises and we can see them well enough to take good aim."

"And maybe longer than that, Harry.  The whole night is permeated with the heaviest inland
fog I ever knew.  Maybe it will take the sun a long time to strike through it or drive it away.
It's bad for us."

"But we'll win anyhow.  I tell you, we'll win anyhow!  Do you hear me, George?"

"Yes, Harry, I hear you.  You're excited.  So am I.  There are mighty few who wouldn't be at
such a time; but look at the general!  He stands like a statue!"

General Jackson did not move, save to lift his glasses now and then, as if with their magnifying
powers he could pierce the dark.  But the night and the swollen fog still hid everything going
on beyond the river from those on the heights.  Down by the shore the Mississippians in their
rifle pits might see a little, and the scouts undoubtedly had seen much, else the signal guns
would not be firing.

Harry's pulses, after a while, began to beat more smoothly and there was not such a painful
and insistent drumming in his head.  Emotions yielded now to will and he waited patiently.
General Jackson for the first time told some of his young officers that they could lie down
and rest.

"There can be no action before daylight," he said, "and it's best to be fresh and ready."

He spoke to them with the grave kindness that he always used, save when some great fault was
committed, and then his words burned like fire. Harry and Dalton procured their blankets from
their tents, wrapped them about their bodies and lay down on the dryest spots they could find,
but they had no thought of sleep.  They permitted their limbs to relax, and that was a help
to the nerves, but neither closed his eyes.

Those dark hours seemed an eternity to Harry.  The floating fog seemed to grow thicker and
to enter his very bones.  He shivered and drew the blanket close.  Now, with his ears close
to the earth, he was sure that he could hear the axes and the saws and the hammers beating
on steel rivets on the other side of the Rappahannock.

The Confederate cannon still fired the signals of alarm at regular intervals, but the night
and the fog always closed in again quickly over the flash that the discharge had made.  After
a while a murmur came from the long Southern line along the heights and on the ridges.  Horses
stirred here and there, cannon, moved to new positions, made sighing sounds as their wheels
sank in the mud; sabres and bayonets clanked, thousands of men whispered to one another.  All
these varying sounds united into one great soft voice which was like the murmur of a wind through
the summer night.

Toward five o'clock in the morning, when the darkness had not diminished a whit, a messenger
from General Lee rode up with a note for General Jackson.  It merely stated that all was ready
and to hold the positions that he had taken up the night before.  Jackson wrote a brief reply
by the light of a lantern that an orderly held, and the messenger galloped away with it.  It
was the only incident that had occurred in a long time.

"They're not using many lights on the other side of the river," said Harry, although he noted
an occasional flame in the darkness. 

In six months we were in this city, we repaired to the stillness, and as our Oyola captain was
informed of the Payaguá that are populated by about 100 miles of the Assumption, to the banks of
the Paraguay River, as he said cavities, and that was their main food hunting and fishing, and
also had carob flour that made eating with fish, and wine as sweet as our wine. Then he commanded
five ships loaded Oyola corn, and prevent of all things necessary, and give to the sailors as they needed
for the proper event the journey, the two months that he meditated. First I wanted to make war
with the Indians Payaguá, and then to the Caracas. Attending all the cavities with carefully
and submission, and they promised faithfully obey all orders from the captain spots.

Ordered so referred, and prevented the ship around, the captain chose 300 soldiers, better armed
and compounds, and left 100 in the city of the Assumption. River always sailing above, at
five miles we reached a pueblezuelo, whose Indians trageron meat, poultry, geese, sheep and
ostriches, and came to the last village of Carias, called Itatin, distant 80 miles of the Assumption,
Indians gave their supplies and other things that we helped.

CHAPTER XXIV.

Mount San Fernando and Peyaguás.

From there we got to the mountain called San Fernando, similar to that called Bogemberg [17],
and we Payaguá the Indians, 12 miles from Itatin: recibiéronnos peace, even feigned as learned
later, brought it home, and treated us with fish, meat, locust bean Pan or John, so we were
nine days. Ask the captain if he made them the nation knew Xarayes called, said they had heard,
who lived away in a rich province gold and silver, but no Indian had ever seen any of it: and
by relation of others, He added that they were as wise as Christians, and abounding in corn,
or cassava cazabí, mandubís, yams and other roots, of sheep or elk
meat, like animals donkeys whose feet are like a cow, the skin thickness;
of rabbits, deer, geese, chickens, and other things that we learned
after the fact.

Asked the captain to guide the Payaguá, to go into that province, and offered ready; and about
300 Indians ordered his captain to go with us and brought us food and other things. Published
our captain the journey in four days, sending it proveyesen all what is necessary for this company:
three ships broke, leaving 50 Christians in the two, with orders that were there. [18] Four months
waiting, and if not return at the end, retreated to the Assumption: we were waiting six months
without knowing anything about John Oyola, and lack the supplies,
it was necessary to return to Domingo de Irala, who had been by our
captain, to the city of Assumption, as our captain had ordered.

CHAPTER XXV.

Juan Oyola comes to the land of the Naperús and Samocosis, and is dead to the back with all Christians.

Juan
Party Oyola with 300 Spanish and 300 Indians, came to the Naperús, friends and allies of Payaguá,
which remained hunting and fishing. It populous nation, and she took some Oyola Indians for
guides, because I had to walk between several nations, as did full of jobs and lack of all: many
resisted him with weapons, and killed half the people. Samocosis the Indians came, and could
not go forward, and leaving three Spanish patients with these Indians, set out the work, he turned
with all his family. John descanzo Oyola with his people, weary of the road, three days in Naper,
and although it came good, understood Indians did not bring ammunition and weapons, which
covered the Naperús and Payaguá, to kill, and they got it: for having left Naper, Christians
Oyola with to go to the Payaguá, being almost in the middle of the road on them suddenly gave
great multitude of these two nations, (hidden in the forest meant for this betrayal, where
had to pass), and as rabid dogs killed the captain and his soldiers,
healthy and patients without escape.

CHAPTER XXVI.

Seeing death of his captain, the Spanish elected in his place Domingo Martinez de Irala.

We knew the treachery of Payaguá, by an Indian [19] who had been slave Oyola, the which the enemy
fled to know the language, but did not give him full credit, although
it had all that had happened, from the beginning to the end of the
set pitiful.

So we were a year in the city of Assumption, unaware of our people other than the above, and what the
captain had Carios Irala, and be publicly known that Payaguá and Naperús he had died. But for
sure, we wanted to hear from the mouth of one of the Payaguá.

Two months later, some cavities comprises two Payaguá, and trageron the captain, and asking if
they had helped to kill our men, denied it, saying that even our captain had not returned
to his own province.

Gave them to torture, and confessed the truth, and what is mentioned
in chapter history, sending them to burn the captain tied to a suit,
surrounded by a large fire.

Then we choose as captain to said Irala, until the King ordered otherwise, for had always been
fair and kind, especially with the soldiers.

CHAPTER XXVII.

Captain prison places in the Assumption, going to the Timbúes and casualties is: let Antonio
de Mendoza in Corpus Christi, and sails to Buenos Aires.

He then Captain provide four brigs, and 150 Spanish Village, sailing down Paraguay and Parana
rivers. The second, leaving the other people in the Assumption, with orders to join the 150 who
were in Thimphu, and to the 160 of the ships of Buenos Aires, came to the Timbúes, or Good Hope, and
Fort Corpus Christi, where our people had been, but we found the land without Indians, because
the Captain Francisco Ruiz, Juan Galan, presbyter, Juan Hernandez, clerk, they were like governors,
after several treatment infidels and evil, had killed the chief of the Timbúes and other Indians,
and the rest is fled, of whom we had received many benefits. So sad knowing evil, we are amazed,
and our captain entrusted to Antonio de Mendoza Fort Corpus Christi, leaving 120 men and supplies,
in order to guard against the Indians, being always alert with good guards, and if the Indians
should come to peace, to treat them with love, making few attentions were possible, and avoiding
all who attempt to harm them, and them Christians, and looking each other with the utmost diligence.
Thus returned to ship, carrying get to Francisco Ruiz, Juan Galan and Hernandez, author of the infamous
death of the Indians. When they were to sail, was a principal Indian Thimphu, great friend of
the Christians, was compelled to follow his men, by his wife, children, relatives and family, which
permission to advise the captain who did not leave there any Christian,
for all the people of war of the province was settled or to kill them,
or out of the land.

The captain replied he would return soon, and people leaving enough
to resist the Indians, and begged it came, the Christians, with his
wife, children and families, and they promised, and leaving Corpus
Christi, embarked the captain.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

Timbúes treacherously kill 50 Spanish: forsake the other the strength of Corpus Christi, and shipped
to Buenos Aires.

After eight days, more or less, the chief sent his brother, but treacherous, treacherously,
asking our captain Mendoza six soldiers with rifles and other weapons, to spend to us with
all their wealth and family to live forever. Pondered the fear that had at the Thimphu, and the
lack of security to come without this relief, offered, as a friend request all our convenience,
bring many provisions, and an abundance of other things. Persuaded the captain, not only gave
him 6, but 50 well-armed Spanish musketeers, charging that go with restraint, caution and
concern, to get rid of the damage they could cause the Indians who were half a league from us.
The 50 Spanish arrived in front of their houses, Timbúes were greeted with the peace of Judas:
ofreciéronles fishing and hunting, and to start eating, they were about friends and enemies,
that looked to others that had been hidden at home, with such fury and haste, that it is a
boy named Caldera escaped from their hands, none was saved.

And by continuing to rage, we envistieron 10.000, and stood upon the strong fourteen calendar
days, with intent to destroy us, but God mercifully stopped him. Traian long spears, swords
they had taken to the Christians killed by spikes, and fought with them and other weapons, night and
day, for take the fort, but could not.

After fourteen days, they gave the last envestida, stubborn throwing all his strength, and set fire
to the houses. Out came the captain Antonio de Mendoza with a sword by a door in which the
Indians had set his helmet, well hidden, and just gave it when he crossed Indians with spears, falling
to a standstill. God wanted them to food over Indians, and could not stay over, lifted the siege
and were thus rested, and more with two launches that sent our captain of Buenos Aires, with
provisions and ammunition, so that we could hold until we come back, which caused us great joy.
But it was greater sadness that the death of Christians instilled
in the newcomers, and not finding another way to restore, by mutual
agreement we decided to abandon Corpus Christi, and become to Buenos
Aires, as egecutamos with all people.

Scared our arrival the captain, and vehemently was overwhelmed by
the ruin of the people, not knowing he would do, for lacking the other
provisions and the need for any business.

CHAPTER XXIX.

A ship arrives in Spain with people to the island of Santa Catalina, where they go to ours in a boat.

Fifteen days had were in Buenos Aires, there fell a caravel to Spain, and warned us Santa Catalina
to be in a ship with 200 men, who came by Captain Alonso Cabrera. Al make available about our
captain ordered another small ship that was to Brazil, to Santa Catalina,
[20] which was about 300 miles from Buenos Aires.

Posted by captain Gonzalo de Mendoza, with orders if we find them in Santa Catalina, loaded
with rice, cassava and other supplies that his sight. Asked the captain Gonzalo de Mendoza
7 soldiers, who could be trusted, and chose 6 Spanish, and to me and 20 others to join us.

Sailed a month, and we arrived at Santa Catalina, where he was the ship we were looking, with Captain
Alonso Cabrera and his people, with which we rejoice much, and spent two months with it. As we
loaded our ship with rice, manioc and corn, and left with both ships and the captain and his
soldiers Cabrera Alonso de Santa Catalina, sailing to Buenos Aires; and lies just 20 miles from
the city, the eve of All Saints, in the Paraná River, asked sailors to each other, if they were
already in the river Paraná. Ours said that if, and they said the other ship still missing 20
leagues: we already know that when many ships make a journey together, as the sun sets each pilot
asked the other how much has sailed?; With what wind is to sail at night, not to depart? The
Paraná River is 30 miles Guazú wide to the gulf or mouth, which run 50 continuous miles to the port
of San Gabriel, which has only 18 miles wide. Our pilot told the other ship if I wanted to follow,
to which he replied that it was almost dark, and wanted to sit in
the sea to the sun, and not come ashore in the night without storm.

This pilot trial had more than we in government the ship, as stated
after the incident, and yet we continued his journey, leaving there.

CHAPTER XXX.

Our ship sinks, leaving some to land in San Gabriel, and then go to Buenos Aires and to the
Assumption.

Evening sail to near midnight, an hour before the sun rose so high storm, although we saw land
to a league or more, we could not take it, or drop anchor, or find another choice but to vote, and
imploring the divine mercy. Then at same time took our ship to pieces, and drowned 15 Spanish,
that we could never find corpse any, and 6 Indians. Others, clinging to some wood, were saved by
swimming: I went out with 5 partners tree clinging to the ship. We were on the ground naked
and without food, having lost everything, and having to walk 50 miles
by land, we were obliged to keep rootlet and other fruits in the field
to the port of San Gabriel, where he had come 30 days before the other
ship with Cabrera.

The General, who understood our misfortune, he was very sad with theirs, and persuading all had
perished, he had to say some masses for our souls.

Lleváronnos to Buenos Aires, and General indicted the captain and pilot, and wanted to hang him,
but by great intercession, was only sentenced to four years to a brig.

All together in Buenos Aires, sent the General to dispatch the launches, and they all the soldiers
had burned the other ships, and store iron.

We sailed over the Paraná River above, and we reached the city of the Assumption, where he
waited two years the King's orders.

CHAPTER XXXI.

Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca arrived in Spain to Santa Catalina, and thence to the Assumption with
300 Spanish, and is received by the Governor.

This being the case, came from Spain Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca, Governor, appointed by King,
with 400 men and 30 horses, four ships, two majors and two caravels. [21]

Had brought these ships to Brazil and Santa Catalina, seeking food supplies, from where he
sent two caravels, the Adelantado, eight miles from the port, to search for food, but they came
as sturdy storm, which killed at sea broken, saving people.

Why would not the Come back to embark before the ships attempted
to break and walk on land, and came to the Assumption with 300 men,
400 who had embarked; [22] because the others had died of anger and
disease.

Eight months it took to walk 300 leagues out there, from the city of the Assumption to the
island of Santa Catalina: [23] and therefore begged to Sunday Alvar
Nuñez Irala will hand over the government and the people obey him,
to which they were ready, stating the title of Adelantado, or other
document granting her obvious King this power, which could not get
the whole community.

[24] Only the priests, and one or the other captain said it well: but what will be coming forward is
aware of what happened this progress.

CHAPTER XXXII.

Alvar Nuñez reviews: send ships up the river and the Indians Chaneses Cambal, to whose leader
was hanged.

Alvar Nuñez sought the friendship of Irala, and actually swore at each other fraternal union
and faith; Irala being, to the authority before sending the people. Alvar Nuñez spent sample
and were 800 men found that the entire number of egército, and then sent nine brigs make available
to climb, as soon as they could, the upstream, and before finishing his readiness, sent three ahead
with 115 soldiers, with orders to go farther as they could, and find that they had Indian corn.

Antony
appointed as captain Diego Grovenor and Tabellino. They first came to the nation of the Samocosis,
which had corn and other roots cazave alike, and a fruit hazelnuts,
called Mandubia, with fishing and hunting.

The Indians go naked, and bring on the lips a blue pebble, as a given:
the Indian, waist to knee walk covered.

Here we left the ships with enough care, and entered through his
province, walking four days until we got to his people, which played
to 300 Carios brave.

State Informámonos and quality of the whole province, and we returned to the ships, and down
the river Paraná, we to the province of Cambal, where we find letters of Alvar Nuñez, which
sent us hanging the chief, whose name was Aracaré [25] as egecutó. Action which gave cause to a later
sad war: bringing down the river we went back to the Assumption.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

Taber and decay arms against the Christians, and Taber is defeated.

After our Governor asked the chief of the Indians, who lived in the Assumption, 2.000 Indians go
up the river with the Christians against Taber. Indians were ready to this, and to all that we wanted,
coming with gifts and services, but advised the Governor mind what
he undertook, before leaving, because the whole province of Taber
and Carios regurgitation were on, they joined forces to take cruel
revenge on the Christians, by the Aracaré death, he was the brother
of Taber.

And no big risk to enter, left for the company then Governor, but decided to send to Irala with
400 Christians and 2.000 Indians against Taber and Carias, for out of the land or destroy them.
Irala left with the Army of the Assumption, and sighted the enemy of peace to Taber required
under the orders of the King: but the chief was so angry, I never wanted to accept treatment.
Had a egército numbers, and had fortified their villages with palisades around in three orders,
with large, deep holes, which had learned our care and diligence.

Three days it took to achieve peace, and report the enemy, and the
fourth morning, three hours before sunrise, seeing that they were
more stubborn, we impetuously the city and surrender, as there are
killing, and capturing many Indian served us well later.

Killed 16 Christians in this battle, and wounded and clubbed another.

Killed many of our Indians, and Cambal, 3.000. A little Taber time of peace came with his family,
asking forgiveness, and pleading that we returned their wives and
children, promising obedience to itself and its people: and the captain
gave him what they asked for, according to the order of the King.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

Assumption is in prison, sail up the Paraguay River, arriving at Mount
San Fernando, and to the Payaguá, Guajarapos and Sococies.

Confirmed peace, we returned to the Paraguay River Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca, who reported our good fortune,
determined to run the company he had thought of before. Taber asked 2.000 Indian allies, and
to the Carias, that would provide the launches, and so executed promptly. Chose 500 Christians,
800 who had, leaving 300 in the Assumption, and as captain of them, Juan de Salazar de Espinosa.

We went up the Paraguay River with 500 Christians [26] and 2.000 Indians had the Carians 83
canoes, we 9 brigs, and in each were two horses, until we the mountain of San Fernando. For
about 100 miles went by land, and embarked, and proceeded the journey to the Payaguá, who fled
with their wives and children, before burning their homes. We traveled 100 miles without finding
any Indian town: and finally, we came to the Indians Guajarapos,
which are kept fishing and hunting, and live in a province 100 miles
long; have such a large number of canoes, you can not say.

Indian women walk covered from the waist to the knee and because he would not listen to our talks,
we call Sococies to another nation, given us peace, and was 90 miles
from the Guajarapos. Each of these Sococies own particular lives in
home with his wife and children. The Indians bring a wooden ball outstanding
ears. The Indian, lips blue glass, a finger, are beautiful, and walk
naked. They have plenty of maize, cassava, Mandubia, sweet potatoes,
fish and game, and populous nation.

Advance sought the nation's report
of the Car Care, and Cavities: but the Indians knew nothing of that,
and in this they said they were with them, being a lie.

"The right spirit," said Jackson quietly.  "I see it throughout the army, and so long as it
prevails we cannot lose."

Then he turned his glasses again toward the river and paid them no further attention.  Officers
of greater age and much higher rank came near, but he ignored them also.  His whole soul seemed
to be absorbed in the searching examination that he was making of the river and the opposite
shore.  Harry and Dalton watched him a little while and then went back to the shelter of the
ridge, where, sitting with their backs against the earth, they, too, took up the task of watching.

The earth was frozen hard now, but toward morning they saw the fog rising again.

"It will cover the river, the far shore, and what's left of the town," said Dalton, "but what
do we care?  They'll be protected by it as they advance on the bridges, but they wouldn't dare
move through it to attack us here on the heights."

"Here's the dawn again," said Harry.  "I can see the ghost of the sun over there trying to
break through, but as there's no wind now the fog's going to hang heavy and long."

Breakfast was served once more to the waiting army on the heights, and then the youths in gray
saw that the Union army, having let the night pass, was beginning to cross the river.  When
the dawn finally came many regiments were already over and the wheels of the heavy cannon were
thundering on the bridges.  But the Confederate army lay quiet on the heights, although before
morning it had drawn itself in somewhat, shortening the lines and making itself more compact.

"Look how they pour over the bridges!" said Harry, who stood glass to eye.  "They come in thousands
and thousands, regiments, brigades and whole divisions.  Why, George, it looks as if the whole
North were swarming down upon us!"

"They're a hundred and twenty thousand strong.  We know that positively, and they're as brave
as anybody.  But we're eighty thousand strong, just sitting here on the heights and waiting.
Harry, they'll cross that river again soon, and when they go back they'll be far less than
a hundred and twenty thousand!"

He spoke with no sign of exultation.  Instead it was the boding tone of an old prophet, rather
than the sanguine voice of youth.

The fog deepened for a little while, and then some of the marching columns were hidden.  Out
of the mists and gloom came the quick music of many bands, playing the Northern brigades on
to death.  Then the fog lifted again, and along the heights ran the blaze of the Southern cannon
as they sent shot and shell into the black masses of the Union troops crowding by Fredericksburg.

But as the echoes of the shots died away, Harry heard again the bands playing, and from the
great Northern army below came mighty rolling cheers.

"The battle is here now, Harry," said Dalton, "and this is the biggest army we've ever faced."

The Union brigades, black in the somber winter dawn, seemed endless to Harry.  From the point
where he stood the advancing columns as they crossed the river looked almost solid.  He knew
that men must be falling, dead or wounded, beneath the fire of the Southern guns, but the living
closed up so fast that he could not see any break in the lines.

"You can't see any sign of hesitation there," said Dalton.  "The Northern generals may doubt
and linger, but the men don't when once they get the word.  What a tremendous and thrilling
sight!  It may be wicked in me, Harry, but since there is a war and battles are being fought,
I'm glad I'm here to see it."

"So am I," said Harry.  "It's something to feel that you're at the heart of the biggest things
going on in the world.  Now we've lost 'em!"

His sudden exclamation was due to a shift of the wind, bringing back the fog again and covering
the river, the town and the advancing Union army. The Confederate cannon then ceased firing,
but Harry heard distinctly the sounds made by scores of thousands of men marching, that measured
tread of countless feet, the beat of hoofs, the rumbling of cannon wheels over roads now frozen
hard, and the music of many bands still playing. 

Someone moved inside the shack, something black appeared indecisive at your door. Was out the
enemy attention! ... He grabbed his gun to fire only displays the end of the enemy weapon,
but remained motionless and confused to see that it was a black skirt topped for bare feet in
old sandals, and a bust this miserable, hunched and bony, a copper head and wrinkled, with
only one eye, and thin gray hair left shine among their wicks varnish baldness.

Febrer recognized the woman. It was the aunt of a blacksmith, one-eyed that he had spoken the Chaplain,
Ferrer the only companion in solitude bravia. The old woman stood in the shed with arms akimbo,
throwing out the flabby belly bulging through the petticoats, setting his only pupil, inflamed
by anger at the intruder who came to lead a man well within his work. Jaime looked at the fierce
aggressiveness of women, safe instilling respect sex, is more bold and impetuous man. Muttered threats
and insults that the man could not hear, angry that someone will come against his nephew, beloved
puppy which had its sterility all the ardor of a failed mother.

Jaime suddenly realized what their actions abhorrent. A man like him to come to cause in broad daylight
by side in your own home! The old woman had reason to insult him. The bully was not the Ferrer:
he was, lord of the tower, a descendant of so many illustrious men and proud origin.

Shame made him shy, plunging in awkward confusion. I did not know how or where to go escape.
At last he threw his gun over his shoulder, and with eyes aloft, as if pursuing a bird jumping
from branch to branch, set off through the trees and undergrowth, bypassing back to the forge.

Now
walked downhill into the valley, running from this mountain that
had dragged a momentum killer, ashamed of his previous wishes.

He returned to find men were coal black.

- Bonas tenguin afternoon!

Replied to his greeting, but her extraordinary eyes on his face blackened white Febrer thought he
noticed something of mockery hostile, repulsive strangeness, as if he were of another breed,
as if he had committed an unprecedented act that always stood out
for community human on the island.

The pines and junipers were back on the slopes of Mt. He now walked between terraces plowed land. In
some areas saw peasants working, on a bank found several atlotas
who collected herbs, huddling on the floor, in a way she met three
old marching slowly beside their donkeys.

Febrer, with the humility of feel sorry for a bad action, greeted
everyone sweetly.

- Bonas tenguin afternoon!

The peasants responded with a growl, the girls face with a twisted
no sign of disappointment to him, the three old answered the greeting
sadly, looking tellers with small eyes, as if they found something
special in him.

Under a fig tree, twisted branches black hood, he saw some peasants
busy listening someone who was at the center of the circle.  After the cheers were over they watched him as he looked
through the glasses from his new position. But he stayed there only a minute or two, going
back then to his old point of vantage.

Harry meanwhile had reached Stuart, who, mounted upon a magnificent horse and clad in a uniform
that fairly glittered through the fog itself, was waiting restlessly.  But he had not changed
any part of his line. Everything remained exactly as Jackson had ordered.  He now knew Harry
well and always called him by his first name.

"Have you an order?" he exclaimed eagerly.  "Does General Jackson want us to advance?"

"He has said nothing about an advance," replied Harry tactfully. "He merely wanted me to ride
down the line and report to him on the spirit of the soldiers as far as I could judge.  He
knew that your men, General, would be hard to hold."

Stuart threw back his head, shook his long yellow hair and laughed in a pleased way.

"General Jackson was right about my men," he said.  "It's hard to keep them from galloping
into the battle, and my feelings are with them. Yet we'll have all the fighting we want.  Look
at the great masses of the Union army!"

The fog had lifted again and the Northern columns were still advancing, marching boldly against
the intrenched foe, although nearly every one of their generals save Burnside himself knew
that it was a hopeless task. In all the mighty events of the war that Harry witnessed few were
as impressive to him as this solemn and steady march of the Union army, heads erect and bands
playing, into the jaws of death.

He stayed only a few moments with Stuart, returning direct to Jackson. On his way he passed
Sherburne, who, with his troop, was on Stuart's extreme left flank.  Harry leaned over, shook
hands with him, nothing more, and rode on.  With the lifting of the fog the Southern guns were
again sending shot and sell into the blue masses.  Then, from the other side of the river,
the great Union batteries left on Stafford Heights began to hurl showers of steel toward the
hostile ridges a little more than a mile and a half away.  It was long range for those days,
but the Union gunners, always excellent, rained shot and shell upon the Southern position.

Harry, used now to such a fire, went calmly on until he rejoined Jackson, who accepted with
a nod his report that Stuart had not changed his lines anywhere.  The general signed to him
and the rest of the staff as they rode toward the center of the Southern line.  Harry did not
know their errand, but he surmised that they were to meet General Lee for the final conference.
The general said no word, but rode steadily on.  Union skirmishers, under cover of the fog
and bushes, had crept far in advance of their columns, and, as the fog continued to thin away
and the day to brighten, they saw Jackson and his staff.

Harry heard bullets whistling sinister little threats in his ear as they passed, and he heard
other bullets pattering on the trees or the earth. They alarmed him more than the huge cannon
thundering away from the other side of the river.  But the fog, although thin, was still enough
to make the aim of the skirmishers bad, and General Jackson and his staff went on their way unhurt.

They reached a little hill near the middle of the Southern bent bow. It had no name then, but
it is called Lee's Hill now, because at nine o'clock that morning General Lee, mounted on his
white horse, was upon its crest awaiting his generals, to give them his last instructions.
Longstreet was already there, and, just as Jackson came, the fog thinned away entirely and
the sun began to blaze with a heat almost like that of summer, rapidly thawing the hard earth.

The young officers on the different staffs reined back, while their chiefs drew together. 
Yet for a few moments no one said anything. The reception was triumphant. San Jose's son returning from such heroic exile! ...
Should not be less enthusiastic than other neighboring parishes, Verros hosting its large entertainment.
And they went to the port of Ibiza, the day of arrival steam, distant relatives of Ferrer, who
were half the town, and all the rest of the neighborhood out of pure patriotism. Even the mayor made
the trip, followed by his secretary, to conserve the sympathies of their administrations. The
lords of the city protesting with indignation these barbaric and immoral habits of the peasantry,
while men, women and kids stormed the vapor, each anxious to be the first to shake hands with
the hero.

Pepet remembered the Verro return to San Jose. He had also figured in the procession, long line
of wagons, horses, donkeys and pedestrians, as if the entire people emigrate. In all Ventorros
taverns and the way he stopped the procession, and the big man was gifted with jugs of wine, pieces
of figola sobreasada and cups, herbal liqueur from the island. Admired his new suit - a suit
of man who'd bought out of prison - were amazed in silence of the ease of his manner, air of
good prince who welcomed their former friends, protecting them with the gesture and glance. Many
envied him. What he learns a man leaving the island! There is no way to run the world! ... The
old blacksmith's overwhelmed all with the superiority of their memories during the trip to San
Jose. Then in the space several weeks, the gathering in the village tavern, in the late afternoon, it was
interesting. Verre's words echoed from home to home for all the scattered hamlets of paddock,
watching every peasant something honorable to his parish in the adventures
of the neighbors.

The Ferrer never tired of praising the beauty of the institution which
had been eight years.

Forget the anger and grief suffered there. All through that saw the love to disfigure the memories
past.

He had not lived, like some unhappy, in a penal institution of the plains of La Mancha, where
you have to raise the water on the back of a man, suffering the torments of an arctic cold. Nor
had been in the prisons of old Castile, where the snow whitens and patios hollow bars. Valencia
came from, the prison in San Miguel de los Reyes, called Nice because of the sweetness of its climate,
by the usual pensioners of these establishments. He spoke with pride of this house, as well
as a rich student remembers the last years in college English or German. High palm shaded
patios, waving his capital of feathers above the rooftops. From the bars came to see the full
extent of the Valencian orchard, with triangular pediments and targets of their barracks,
and beyond the Mediterranean, a vast blue band, whose back was hiding behind the rock home, the
beloved island. Perhaps she had gone through the salt-laden wind and burning plant emissions
who sneaked a blessing in the stink of the prison blocks. What more could I want a prisoner!
... Life was sweet, was eating his hours, always hot, there was order, and man had only to obey,
let go. They became good friends, it was a with remarkable people who had never known to remain
on the island. And speaking Ferrer with pride of his friends. Some had had millions in luxury
carriages and paraded past in Madrid, almost fantastic city, whose name sounded in the ears
of the islanders as the Baghdad for the poor Arab of the desert listening to a story from
the Thousand and One Nights. Others had run the world before the disgrace they are confined in confinement,
and recalled before a rapt circle of his adventures on land or in countries where black men
were yellow or green and wore braids womanly. At the former convent, as big as a people living
the best of the land. Some had girded sword and commanded men, others Sealed papers were handled
and interpreted the law.

Even a fellow priest had been to block the Ferrer! ...

Fans of this she listened with wide eyes and nostrils quivering with excitement. What joy! Be
Verro, winning the respect of celebrity and killing an enemy in shadows
of the night, and return, eight years in Nice, a place of delight
and honor.

No They have much luck ...

The Chaplain, who had heard these stories, I felt the Verro respect
admiration.

Describing the peculiarities of his person with the neatness of it feels like love of a hero.

He was not tall or strong as a lord, but he was quick, no beat him at the ball, and could dance for
hours, to pay all the girls of the parish. He had brought his long Nice season a pale complexion
and lustrous, a cloistered nun complexion, but it was dark like the others, his face tanned and weathered
by the sea air and the African sun island. He lived in the mountains in a shack immediately
to the pine forests near the charcoal which provided fuel to his forge. This will not be lit all day.
The Ferrer, with its pretensions as an artist, only worked when I had to repair a gun, transforming
an old blunderbuss gun piston spark, or making those guns with silver
ornaments they admired the Chaplain.

He wished he preferred to see her sister that the Verro enter into
his family with their amazing skills.

Perhaps spurred on by the next relationship is decided to give her one of those jewelry.

- Margalida you may want, and then Ferrer give me one of his pistols. You do you think, Don
Jaime? ...

Verro advocated as if it were longer relative. The poor lived so bad! ... Only in forge, no
other company that a relative old, always dressed in black for mourning
remote, teary eye, closed another, and pulling the bellows while his
nephew broke the iron red.

The vicinity of the fire wiped his bony increasing thinness. In his wrinkled face Apple seemed
to settle the old eye sockets.

He smoked and dark cave amid the pines could be beautified with the presence of Margalida. Her
only ornament was a few actual reed baskets woven color on a chessboard, with silk tassels, friendly
reminder of the unknown artists who entertained his leisure in retirement Nice. When his sister
lived at the forge, Pepet would you see it, and had acquired from
the munificence of his brother-in visits, knife as famous as the grandfather,
if Mr. Pep persevered unfairly deny this glorious heritage.

The memory of his father seemed to darken the hopes of the boy. Looked hard for the Can Mallorquí
owner accepted as the son of Pere Ferrer. Nothing bad could say the old of him accepting his fame
as an honor for the people. The island was not only brave men on "the beasts of San Juan", also San
Jose could boast of brave young men who had ordeals suffered. But Ferrer was a man of trade,
little understood in agricultural commodities, and though all showed themselves equally willing
Ibiza to cultivate the land, take a net into the sea or to a cache of contraband passing easily
from one job to another, he wanted for his daughter a real farmer, accustomed all his life
to scratch the floor. His resolution was unshakable. In that brain wilderness and hard, when
it came to sprout a idea took root so deeply, that there was no cataclysmic hurricane that started
up. Pepet would be cured and the world.

Margalida kept it for a farmer to enlarge the land Can Mallorquí to inherit.

The Chaplain inquietábase to think about who could be helped by Margalida. Work gave all faces
having a man like Ferrer. Although his sister bent to another, the winner would have to deal
then with Pere, the brave glorious, removing middle. Iban to see great things. Margalida the
parade was already talk in all houses in the paddock, his fame would
eventually engulf the whole island.

And smiled with fierce Pepet delight, as a little savage who sees next massacre.

Margalida admired, recognizing it as a higher authority than the father, therefore that was not based
on fear of shock. She ran around the house. The mother walked his footsteps as a domestic, not
daring to do anything without consulting her. Pep fate, so absolute in his ideas, he stopped
before making a decision, scratching his forehead with a gesture of doubt as he said quietly:
"This will have to consult with atlota."

The same Chaplain, who had inherited the paternal stubbornness, easily desist their attempts
to protest only one word of his sister, a hint of his mouth smiling, his sweet voice.

- What she knows, Don Jaime! - Said the boy wonder -. I do not know if it is beautiful. Over
there they say yes, but I do not like.

I like others of my age. Too bad not yet to support the festeig !....

And back to talking about his sister, listed their talents, insisting with some respect in her
singing ability.

Did you know Don Jaime to Sang, a below par atlot the chest that did not work and spent his days
lying in the shade of the trees, hitting the drums and mumbling verses? ... It was a white
lamb, a chicken, with skin and eyes of a woman, unable to face anyone. It also Margalida wanted
to, but the Chaplain swore the drum put him by the neck before accept it as a brother ... He
could only intermarry with a hero ... But what of songs drawn head and singing interspersed with
peacock screams there is no one with different measure singing. There must be fair and recognize
their merit Pepet. It was a glory to the paddock could almost be
compared with the brave Ferrer.

Well, this singer was facing him Margalida when, in the summer gatherings in porchu of the
farm or dancing at Sunday, blushing, driven by the companions, he chose to sit in the center of
the circle, and the drum on one knee, eyes hidden behind a scarf, answered with a long romance,
all in their invention in which the poet had said earlier.

If I released a Sunday sang an interminable story about the falsity
of women and faces that cost the man his fondness for rags, Margalida
he responded to another Sunday romance with a long-criticizing double
vanity and selfishness of men, and peat of atlotas chanted his verses
with clucks of enthusiasm, recognizing the glory of a vengeful Can
the girl Mallorquí.

- Pepet!

... Atlot!

A female voice sounded far away, like glass, cutting the heavy silence
of the first afternoon, charged with vibrations of heat and light.

Sounded louder and louder, the repeated, as if it is near the tower.

Pepet little beast left its resting position, freeing the legs drawn
ring arms to stand up for a jump ... Margalida which was called ...
His father had claimed for some work, in view of his lateness.

The Lord kept him by the arm.

- Let her come - she smiled -.

Become a deaf ear to that cry.

The Chaplain bared his sharp teeth in the darkness of his tanned face. Smiled the urchin, satisfied
with this guilty complicity, and wanted to take advantage of it,
talking to the gentleman bold confidence.

You really do ask for him, but Pep, the knife's grandfather?

Oh, Güelo cabinet! Was always present in his memory.

- Yes, I have - said Jaime -. And if your father does not come through,
I'll buy the best you find in Ibiza.

The boy rubbed his hands, his eyes shining with savage brilliance.

- It's just that you are a man like the others - continued Febrer
- but no use!

A nothing more than simple adornment.

Pepet, eager to make their wish as soon as he answered with vigorous head movements. Yes, an ornament
just ... But her eyes darkened with a cruel question ... An ornament,
but offended if someone wearing such a companion, what should a man
do?

...

- Pepet! ... Atlot!

Crystal's voice now sounded at the foot of the tower. Febrer expected to hear more about, do
appear Margalida head and then his whole body into the hole of entry. Long waited in vain time:
the voice was becoming urgent, with graceful tremor of impatience,
but no closer more.

Febrer appeared at the door and saw the girl at the foot of the stairs, something dwarfed by distance,
with puffy blue skirt and a straw hat from which hung ribbons of
flowers.

Against the background of the broad brim, equal to a halo, his face stood out, a pale pink, which
seemed to shake the drops black eyes.

- Salut d'enmetllé Flo! - Febrer said with some uncertainty in his voice, but smiling.

"Almond Blossom Girl !...» Upon hearing this name in the mouth of the Lord, the crimson of a blood
expansion momentarily hid the soft whiteness of her skin ...

"" Don Jaime I knew this name? ... "A man as he learned of such nonsense ?...»

Febrer only saw and crown and brim of Margalida. He had lowered his head and in his confusion
was toying with the ends of the apron, embarrassed as a girl who is given suddenly realized
the significance of sex and listen to the first compliment.

III

The next Sunday morning Febrer was the people.

The guy could not accompany Guster the sea, he considered indispensable presence at Mass, to respond
in a shrill voice the words of the priest.

Devoid of occupation, Jaime began his march to the town by red dirt
tracks dirtied the whiteness of his sandals.

It was one of the last days of summer. Farmsteads of crisp whiteness seemed to reflect like
mirrors the fire of an African sun. Buzzed environment swarms of insects. In the green shadow
of fig trees, wide, low round, supported by a circle of stakes and a roof of greenery, open figs fell
heat, bursting into the ground like huge drops of purple sugar.

Rose prickly pears blades spiked walls on both sides of the road, and its dusty roots scampered,
fearful and drunk with sunshine, waving small animals, long tail and emerald green.

In between the colonnade and twisted black olive and almond trees could be seen in the distance,
following other paths, groups of farmers that also marched towards the village. Front atlotas were
going to Sunday suit, with red or white scarves and skirts green,
shining the sun his big gold chains.

Together they walked to the suitors, tenacious guard and hostility that was played a glance
or a word of choice, while besieging several to the same girl. Parents brought up the rear of the
girls, aged prematurely by fatigue and sobriedades of camp life, poor beasts of the earth,
submissive, resigned, black skin, dry members like branches, and in the stupor of his mind remembered
which a vague and remote festeig spring the year.

When Febrer came to town he went directly to church. We were six or eight houses with the mayor, school
and the pub around the temple. There stood this magnificent and powerful as a nexus of all
the houses scattered over valleys and mountains in some miles radius.

Jaime, taking off the hat to wipe sweat from his forehead, took refuge
under a small cloister arcades that preceded the church.

There he experienced the same feeling Arab welfare is home to a solitary witch doctor after the
march through the sand inflamed like an oven.

The whiteness of the church, whitewashed, with its arcades fresh and stone embankment crowned
dried cactus, suggested in a mosque in Africa. Strength was over temple. Their roofs were hidden
by the upper edge of the walls, a kind of redoubt which had been
leaning on rifles and shotguns often.

The tower was a tower still crowned with battlements war: his old bell had turned in another time
with fever the alarm.

This church, which the farmers of the paddock came to life with baptism and out her with the funeral
Mass, was for centuries the refuge of his terrors, the strength their resistance. When the watchmen
of the coast with bonfires or smoke announcing a Moor boat, all the farms of the parish families
ran to the temple, loading his gun men, women and children herding goats and donkeys or carrying
their backs with their legs tied in bundles all poultry. The house of God became stall keeper of
the fortunes of his followers. The priest, in a corner, praying with women being cut their sentences
by cries of anguish and cries of children, while in tower roofs and the riflemen were exploring
the horizon, until it was news that birds of prey in the sea became
isolated.

Then reanudábase normal existence, becoming each family to its isolation, with the certainty
of repeating the harrowing journey a few weeks later.

Febrer remained under the arcades were coming to see how groups of peasants in a hurry, spurred by
the last touch of the bell that flipped on top of the tower. Inside The church was almost
full.

Through the open door came to a dense puff Jaime Burning breaths, sweat and rough clothes. Febrer
felt some sympathy for these good people when encountered separately, but the crowd inspirábale
aversion and stayed away from contact.

Many Sundays down the people to stand at the door of the church without entering it. The habitual
solitude in his tower on the coast it was necessary to see people.
In addition, Sunday was for him, a man without jobs, a dull day, tiring,
endless. This rest of the other was his torment. I could not go to
sea for lack of a boatman, and the fields loners, with their houses
closed, to find families at Mass or in the dance Later, I connected
the painful impression of a walk through a cemetery. The morning pasábala
San Jose, and one of his pleasures was to remain in the cloister of
the church looking into and leave the crowd, enjoying the cool shade
of the arches, while burning a few steps further the earth with solar
reverb, tree branches swaying slowly as distressed heat and dust covering
the leaves, and dense environment appeared to be chewed before descend
to the lungs. 

Families arrived late, going to Febrer with a look
of curiosity and mild greeting. Everyone knew him in the paddock.
These good people, seeing him in the field could open the door of
his house, but her kindness did not go beyond being unable to approach
it of its own accord. He was a stranger. He was also a Spaniard. Its
status as lord created a mysterious distrust of rustic people, who
could not explain his stay in the isolation of a tower.

Febrer left
alone. Reached his ears the ringing of a bell, the sound of people
kneeling or standing, and a familiar voice, the voice of Uncle Guster,
throwing in tone responses sung Mass with stridor of his toothless
mouth. People accepted without laughing these interference of senile
insanity. She was used, years and years, hear the Latin word made
the old sailor, who from your bank shouted responses supported helper.
It had much to regret, but nothing of which to be ashamed. Sent against positions impregnable
when held by such men as Lee, Jackson and Longstreet, it had never ceased to attack so long
as the faintest chance remained.  Its commander had been unequal to the task, but the long
roll of generals under him had shown unsurpassed courage and daring.

Harry thought once that General Jackson was going to attack in turn, but after a long look
at the roaring plain he shrugged his shoulders and gave no orders.  The beaten Army of the
Potomac preserved its order, it had lost no guns, the brigadiers and the major-generals were
full of courage, and it was too formidable to be attacked.  Three hundred cannon of the first
class on either side of the river were roaring and crashing, and the moment the Southern troops
emerged for the charge all would be sure to pour upon them a fire that no troops could withstand.

General Lee presently appeared riding along the line.  The cheers which always rose where he
came rolled far, and he was compelled to lift his hat more than once.  He conferred with Jackson,
and the two, going toward the left, met Longstreet, with whom they also talked.  Then they
separated and Jackson returned to his own position.  Harry, who had followed his general at
the proper distance, never heard what they said, but he believed that they had discussed the
possibility of a night attack and then had decided in the negative.

When Jackson returned to his own force the twilight was thickening into night, and as darkness
sank down over the field the appalling fire of the Union artillery ceased.  Thirteen thousand
dead or wounded Union soldiers had fallen, and the Southern loss was much less than half.

All of Harry's comrades and friends had escaped this battle uninjured, yet many of them believed
that another battle would be fought on the morrow.  Harry, however, was not one of these. 
He remembered some words that had been spoken by Jackson in his presence:

"We can defeat the enemy here at Fredericksburg, but we cannot destroy him, because he will
escape over his bridges, while we are unable to follow."

Nevertheless the young men and boys were exultant.  They did not look so far ahead as Jackson,
and they had never before won so great a victory with so little loss.  Harry, sent on a message
beyond Deep Run, found the Invincibles cooking their suppers on a spot that they had held throughout
the day.  They had several cheerful fires burning and they saluted Harry gladly.

"A great victory, Harry," said Happy Tom.

"Yes, a great victory," interrupted Colonel Leonidas Talbot; "but, my friends, what else could
you have expected?  They walked straight into our trap.  But I have learned this day to have
a deep respect for the valor of the Yankees.  The way they charged up Marye's Hill in the face
of certain death was worthy of the finest troops that South Carolina herself ever produced."

"That is saying a great deal, Leonidas," said Lieutenant-Colonel Hector St. Hilaire, "but it
is true."

Harry talked a little with the two colonels, and also with Langdon and St. Clair.  Then he
returned to his own headquarters.  Both armies, making ready for battle to-morrow, if it should
come, slept on their arms, while the dead and the wounded yet lay thick in the forest and on
the slopes and plain.

But Harry was not among those who slept, at least not until after midnight.  He and Dalton
sat at the door of Jackson's tent, awaiting possible orders.  Jackson knew that Burnside, with
a hundred thousand men yet in line and no artillery lost, was planning another attack on the
morrow, despite his frightful losses of the day.

The news of it had been sent to him by Lee, and Lee in turn had learned it from a captured
orderly bearing Burnside's dispatches.  But neither Harry nor Dalton knew anything of Burnside's
plans.  They were merely waiting for any errand upon which Jackson should choose to send them.
Several other staff officers were present, and as Jackson wrote his orders, he gave them in
turn to be taken to those for whom they were intended.

Harry, after three such trips of his own, sat down again near the door of the tent and watched
his great leader.  Jackson sat at a little table, on a cane-bottomed chair, and he wrote by
the light of a single candle. His clothing was all awry and he had tossed away the gold-braided
cap. His face was worn and drawn, but his eyes showed no signs of weariness. The body might
have been weak, but the spirit of Jackson was never stronger.

Harry knew that Jackson after victory wasted no time exulting, but was always preparing for
the next battle.  The soldiers, both in his own division and elsewhere, were awakened by turns,
and willing thousands strengthened the Southern position.  More and deeper trenches were constructed.
New abatis were built and the stone wall was strengthened yet further.  Formidable as the Southern
line had been to-day, Burnside would find it more so on the morrow.

After midnight, Jackson, still in his gorgeous uniform and with boots and spurs on, too, lay
down on his bed and slept about three hours. 800 Various drugs, timber, skins
of monkeys, parrots, etc. 1,000 Husk, 3.000 bushels at 8 pesos
[1]. 33,000 -------- TOTAL 129.800
                                                      
                                                The expenditure budget of the province is as follows:

Personal contribution
of indigenous peoples.

7,800 Customs duties. 16,000 Salaries of the priests, in fruits and
money.

12,000 ------- TOTAL 35.800

It is therefore the difference between the two totals, the
                                                province
                                         still has 94.000 pesos, serving this amount to its residents for
the purchase of merchandises that they come from without.

Exportation trade is done with the neighboring provinces, located
on the high plains Department of La-Paz, and some parts of Peru.

This trade, as told speaking parishes in particular, is pure barter, arranged on fictitious values
well below the positive value, resulting in fat therefore benefit from the merchants traveling,
going to end up Caupolican. Import trade items are: fresh or salt meat, tallow, cheese, bread, salt,
flour, brandy, all tected indigenous kinds of heavy wool and cotton for use by the Indians, some
portion European fabric for employees: the mules, horses and some burros charging transports.

Communication
facilities are in every country the first requirement for the advancement of trade and civilization.
In this regard, as must have been already interviewed by the itineraries that are detailed, poor
roads have always been in the province Caupolican main obstacle to the spread of trade: this
state of affairs was meanwhile maintained purpose by employees secular
or religious, in order to retain exclusively for them a monopoly of
trade-offs.

Having neglected as the government altogether and for a long time the repair of roads, there certainly
could not trade but at the risk of men and animals, so the dealer, to make sales, it looked
specified to count losses in the budget of the mules broke down and those that perished by
because of bad roads. The vast spaces of marshy land, on which were placed some trunks crossed to
facilitate the movement, were mostly transits danger, because where a log be missing after the
poor mule fell, breaking his leg, or sinking up to the meetings in the deep mud. Fortunately the
current government apply now by far attempted to improve these roads, anxious to give greater
impulsion to trade. Have renewed some old ones, and open a new one hase of twenty leagues, ranging
from Apollo to Guanay.

Meanwhile, personal charges weighing on the Indians of the interior, as required are to replace
the beasts of burden, transporting on their backs and very long distances all kinds of goods are
undoubtedly the cause that makes it late advancement trade in those regions, crippling the
very desire to reap the fruits nature spontaneously offers everywhere.

Improvements, agricultural, industrial and commercial center of the
province is susceptible.

This chapter should be very long, on account of the varied terrain and the various offshore areas than
is in the province, but as I have to consider, when talking about Moxos the question concerning
the warm plains and in the Yungas section regarding to the forested
mountains, warm and temperate, as well as that of La-Paz with respect
to the lofty plains and mountains bare and sterile, I refer to these
various provinces for indication of the best that are common to Caupolican,
siéndome allowed appreciate them much more success in those places,
since I've picked myself them very lengthy notes on the subject.

I shall therefore, for now, only those significant changes, which
seem to me most special to the province of Caupolican.

Just seen that today, in spite of the abundance of grasses eSCelente making the nature on the
heights of Pelechuco, near Pata, Santa-Cruz de Valle Ameno, Apollo and Aten, in spite of the
profusion offered to the plains of the inland districts, fresh meat and dried meat are among the
items of import trade.

If you promote the breeding of cattle, it is clear that instead of receiving the exterior, he would
become an important branch of trade out: The same would happen with
the herds sheep, which can multiply to supply to both their meat and
wool in abundance.

Equal proportion increasing by horses and mules, was significantly activated exportation of
fruits, contributing to this in the increase of the income the province and to the cessation of the
painful and degrading servitude of the Indians today Abbe inside, as they are forced to go to remote
points by the office of the beasts; freed from such a charge these
poor, then their days would use in working the land, or simply to
harvest the natural productions of the country, without which they
are entitled fair enough fear that forced them to dispose of before.

The vast extent of the inland plains Moxos serious as in the breeding center of any species of cattle,
they would move to fully look after a few years covering thousands of cows and horses. With
the possession of these, you would see the government of Bolivia gorging resourced to his army
resources that are quite distant possess the republics of Chile and Peru.

Moreover, the application to look beautiful dresses animal skins, such as the Marimonos black
and red, would not fail to produce large profits, just as conservation of large-animal skins,
which would become tanning hides the most suitable for car harnesses,
shall we say the same of the skin of the deer, that is so elastic
and soft as chamois leather, which the gloves manufactured in Europe
most esteemed, or more comfortable shoes.

Turtle eggs found on the banks of the Beni, Darien, through preparation used in the banks of the
Orinoco, the great turtle butter, one of the elements of the indigenous cuisine.

Having unparalleled abundance of fish found in the Beni River and its tributaries, points could
be brought about some fishing in all rules, then by keeping salting out her products, so as
to come to create a new and very important branch of exportation, which would not fail to be
estimated, especially in populations High Plains, as the cities of Oruro, La-Paz, etc.

The vegetation is what primarily offers significant improvements.

As soon as industry city ​​takeover of the natural products of the interior, they will be filled
the malls of the most beautiful woods for cabinet, thus benefiting vast forests covering the
mountains and plains.

The box, now so scarce and so expensive in Europe, and you can not get large plates, he would
be replaced by those yellow wood, very abundant in those regions, and, besides being so strong
and compact as this, have the advantage of providing sheets of all sizes to recorders.

As to the drainers, not only would bring them trade their exquisite
coconut and rich wood cabinetry, but also its very useful to the oil
industry, as it would take advantage of almond Cavina.

Massive benefits would be obtained to look carefully and supplies various resins, especially copal,
which is the first element of the most beautiful varnish that was made in Europe.

The importance of rubber, used in Europe for the manufacture of various items such as corsets,
garters and braces or suspenders, is increased day to day, being the most important branch of
trade and industry of the inhabitants of Para, which are exclusively
devoted to his great culture, what deterrent is there for the rich
province of Caupolican can not do the same, being also possesses this
plant?

The scale, which for some years has given millions to trade, even
when not exhausted.

Until today only has practiced cut near inhabited areas, and much sludge mind the strategic
sites where they are.

According to reports I could gather, the Indians dedicated to this task are scattered through
the mountains, and so isolated one by one in the woods, cut the precious plant without any
kind of precautions without choosing the station even more appropriate to the case. Parag also devoid
where to put it in storage and covered against the frequent rains, often befalls the completely
ruin their stockpiles, or to see them largely damaged. As obvious as the harvest of the husk
is destined to be one of the safest classes of income State, would
agree that the authorities much rules the way to practice cutting,
dictating to do certain ordinances, whose main object was to put an
end to the destruction that spreads and spreads everywhere, leaving
the trail marked on some of its transit with the total absence of
trees that the hand of nature had planted.

The need to conserve its timber, woodworking and even those who are destined to serve as firewood,
forced to France, long ago, to create the Management Forests, which aims to cut abuses of
all kinds in order to conserve resources for the future. Time is now also to Bolivia, where he still
belongs to the state of half of the land, try to create a vigilant and active body that has
under his charge;

1, People of European trees such as spruce, birch or poplar, etc., Mountains adjacent to La-Paz,
Chuquisaca and Potosi, in order to provide to these great cities of firewood timber and joinery;

2
° prohibit, subject to more stringent penalties, clearing by fire, thus preventing to stop
the clouds gathered strength day by day the lack of moisture, and thus to deprive the fields of
natural irrigation, making them sterile, or let the rain rushing,
taking free passage, start and drag on the high topsoil, which was
followed naked and barren rocks in places where the trees grew more
beautiful;

3 ° Do the Indians pull up instead of cutting the bushes
that provide firewood and coal, so they can take these back to shoot,
having, moreover, that the courts are affected by successive boards,
which prevent the complete destruction is already done feeling on
many points where they grow woody plants

EXTRACTION 4 ° Practicing
the big scale, but according to certain ordinances, and setting primarily
the more favorable season, so while we may enjoy in all the product
of the annual harvest, may always kept this plant the future.

Meanwhile, the most effective measures that I feel obliged to state for conservation regular and
beneficiation of this important branch of the treasury entries are as follows.

1 st Can the government of the republic in Europe to recruit an employee of Forests, intelligent
and versed in the use and application of improvements on the subject,
to entrust the inspection forests overall scale, which moved from
one point to another monitor and direct subordinate employees to continually
placed in each province.

2 ª The junior employee will be responsible for ordering and directing
the EXTRACTION of hulls in each of the parishes of the province.

For the harvest is done with perfection due, it is necessary to start from then on open road leading
to all the valleys where this plant is grown, then dividing the territory into ten sections,
for example, To only benefits a year, thus giving time to the others to return to populated for
when their turn.

3rd Harvest should take place only in the months of June, July and August, when stems are in
a more perfect state of maturity, and when the plant contains Most sap, without the fear that comes
to cutting dry accordingly.

4 th is a need to start in each parish to the operation of the court, drawing primarily a path
of extraction, and building one or many barracks in the center of the section that benefits,
for laborers can be dispersed in these sotechados depositing the daily intake of their tasks,
and make it dry there husks without accidents complete breakdowns or failure.

5 th order not to destroy the bushes to make the cuts will be necessary to choose when most seasoning,
and cut a little above the roots, drawing on billhooks; after taking the precaution, if the strain
does not cast forth suckers, leaving some plants in reserve Here and there, which again planted
and naturally their surroundings, in the course ten years between
each cut of the section.

If the Bolivian government enact measures similar to those taken in France to the regular court
State forest, it is clear that never would see the need to suspend scale crops, for that today
employs to prevent the total destruction of this specific. Every year substantial proceeds
would be collected and better: these products always retain the same
value, in view of lowering of stroke, as when the court left to the
discretion and discretion of the natives is practiced with such disorder,
would seem better, with such abandon, that stockpiles Overcharging
factories and then European markets, causing them to stop hand crops
in general, for some years.

Finally, for trade in the expanse take a convenient scale, so that
can, to be more durable, produce the incalculable advantages of being
capable under good administration, it would be necessary that the
Government institute a severe and well-regulated regime about crops
and trying to establish the Bank as soon as rescue projected which
depends on the regularization of this trade on the stranger.

The second branch of the trade in the province, which also can receive a huge expanse, is undoubtedly
cocoa.


The table had been set late, and soon the winter twilight was approaching.  As they took another
slice of ham they heard the boom of a cannon on the far side of the Rappahannock.  Harry went
to the window and saw the white smoke rising from a point about three miles away.

"They can't be firing on us, can they, sir?" he said to Colonel Talbot. "They wouldn't do it
on a day like this."

"No.  There are two reasons.  We're so far apart that it would be a waste of good powder and
steel, and they would not violate Christmas in that manner.  We and the Yankees have become
too good friends for such outrageous conduct.  If I may risk a surmise, I think it is merely
a Christmas greeting."

"I think so, too, sir.  Listen, there goes a cannon on our side."

"It will be answered in a few moments.  The favorite Biblical numbers are seven and twelve,
and I take it that each side will fire either seven or twelve shots.  It is certainly a graceful
compliment from the Yankees, befitting the season.  I should not have said a year ago that
they would show so much delicacy and perception."

"I think that the number of shots on each side will be twelve," said Lieutenant-Colonel St.
Hilaire.  "It's three apiece now, isn't it?"

"Yes, three apiece," said Colonel Talbot.

"Four now," said Sherburne.

"Five now," said Dalton.

"Six now," said St. Clair.

"Seven now," said Harry.

"Eight now," said Happy Tom.

"And seven has been passed," said Colonel Talbot.  "It will surely be twelve."

All were silent now, counting under their breath, and they felt a certain extraordinary solemnity
as they counted.  Harry knew that both armies, far up and down the river, were counting those
shots, as the little group in the Moncrieffe house were counting them.  Certainly there would
be no hostilities on that day.

"Nine," they said under their breath.

"Ten!"

"Eleven!"

"Twelve!"

Then they listened, as the echo of the twelfth Southern shot died away on the stream, and no
sound came after it.  Twenty-four shots had been fired, twelve by each army, conveying Christmas
good wishes, and the group in the house went back to their dinner.  Some glasses had been found,
and there was a thimbleful of wine, enough for everyone.  The black cake was cut, and at a
word from Colonel Talbot all rose and drank a toast to the mothers and wives and sweethearts
and sisters they had left behind them.

Then the twilight thickened rapidly and the winter night came down upon them, hiding the ruined
town, the blackened walls, the muddy streets and the icicles hanging from scorched timbers.

Caesar Moncrieffe washed all the dishes--those left in the house had been sufficient for their
purpose--wiped them carefully, and returned them to the cupboard.  Then he announced that he
must go.

"Come now, Santa Claus," said Happy Tom, "you must stay here.  You've done enough for one day.
In fact, I should say that you've earned a week's rest."

"I ain't no Santy Claus," said Caesar, "but I done got to git back to Massa Moncrieffe.  He'll
be expectin' me."

"But you'll get lost in the dark.  Besides, some Yankee scout may shoot the top of your head off."

"You can't lose me anywhar' roun' here.  'Sides, I kin dodge them Yankees every time.  On a
dark night like this I could go right up the gullies and through the biggest army in the world
without its seein' me."

Caesar felt that he was bound to go, and all the officers in turn shook his big rough black
hand.  Then they saw him ride away in the darkness, armed with his pass from General Jackson,
and on the lookout for any prowling Yankees who might have ventured on the right bank of the river.

"Isn't it odd, Colonel," said Harry to Colonel Talbot, "that so many of our colored people
regard the Yankees who are trying now to free them as enemies, while they look upon us as their
best friends?"

"Propinquity and association, Harry," replied Colonel Talbot, "and in the border states, at
least, we have seldom been cruel to them.  I hope there has been little of cruelty, too, in
my own South Carolina. They are used to our ways, and they turn to us for the help that is
seldom refused.  The Northerner will always be a stranger to them, and an unsympathetic stranger,
because there is no personal contact, none of that 'give and take' which makes men friends."

"What a pity we didn't free 'em ourselves long ago!"

"Yes, it is.  I say this to you in confidence now, Harry.  Of course, I would be denounced
by our people if I said it.  But many of our famous men, Harry, have not approved of it.  The
great Washington said slavery, with its shiftless methods of farming, was draining the life
out of the land, and he was right.  Haven't we seen the 'old fields' of Virginia?"

"And Clay was against it, too," said Harry; "but I suppose it's one of the things we're now
fighting for, unless we should choose to liberate them ourselves after defeating the North." 

A silver chueta withheld a long time. He admired the hollow gold chains made for the peasant, buttons
filigree with a stone in the center was known inside all these objects as perfect and wonderful
works of art created for men. If you entered the store to buy a dozen of those buttons! ...
What a surprise of the Can atlota Mallorquí when he's offered to decorate their sleeves! ... Probably
that would accept him, a man who looked grave filial respect. Respect annoying! Damn gravity as that
bothered him as an overwhelming burden! ... But the heir Febrer, the offspring of wealthy merchants
and heroic sailors, had to withdraw thinking about the money he kept in his belt. Was certainly
not enough for such a purchase.

Then in another store Pepet purchased a knife, the bigger and heavier than found, an absurd
weapon, capable of making him forget that of his glorious grandfather.

At

noon, Febrer, bored aimless walks by the Navy and the steep streets of the former Royal Force, entered
a small inn, the only one of the city, located along port. He found the guests as usual. In
the lobby, a few young men dressed of peasants, with headquarters cap: soldiers of the garrison
that served as assistants. In the dining room, junior officers of a battalion, young lieutenants
who smoked with a bored and looked through the windows, as prisoners of the sea, the vast blue
expanse. While eating lamentábanse of bad luck of his youth, useless and lost in this rock.
They spoke of Mallorca as a place of delights, remember the provinces mainland, from which many
of them were children, as havens for those who longed to return. Women! ... It was a yearning,
a desire that shook their voices and put in their eyes gleams of insanity. Weighed on them, as a
string of insufferable prison, under caste Ibizan exclusivism island, suspicious to outsiders. There
was no joking with love, not time lost in wooing, or hostile indifference, or honest engagement
to marry soon. Words and smiles directly led to the marriage was only possible treatment with
youth to discuss the formation of a new family. And these young noisy joyful, exuberant juices,
suffered an ordeal tantalesco talking about the most beautiful girls of the city. The admired and
lived apart from them, despite moving in a narrow space which forced them to continuous games.
His whole dream was to get a license to live several days in Mallorca or on the Peninsula, off the
island virtuous and shy, which only supported the stranger as husband embark in search of other
lands, where it was easy to expand exacerbated their desires, like those of the college and the
inmate.

Women!

... Those young people did not talk about something else, and Febrer, sitting at the large table
of the Fund approved quietly his words and lamentations. Women! ... The irresistible trend that binds
us to them is all that remains strong after the upheavals moral life changing, what remains
standing amid the bodies of other illusions destroyed by the cataclysm. Febrer felt the same tedium
of those soldiers, printing of being locked in a prison deprivation that was to pit the sea. Now
it seemed the island capital of a population of monotony irresistible, with their ladies locked
in shy and monastic isolation. I thought in the field as a place of freedom, with their wives
simple soul and natural affections, limited only by a defensive instinct equal to primitive female.

That
afternoon he left the city. Nothing remained to him of the optimism of a few hours earlier.
Marina streets were foul, a foul odor escaped from the houses in
swarms of flies buzzed stream, jumping in the puddles at the sound
of the footsteps of a passerby.

The memory of the hills next to the tower, fragrant smell of wild herbs and salty sea, seemed
to smile in his memory with idyllic sweetness.

The car took him to a farmhouse near San Jose, and departing from it set off the mountain, passing through
pine bowed by heavy storms

.
  It looks exactly as it did the morning of
the battle."

"Let it look as it pleases," said Harry.  "I'm going to make a dash for the inside and a fire!"

They found the colonels and the rest of the staff in the sitting-room, all except two, who
were acting as cooks, but their work ceased in a moment or two, as breakfast was ready.  It
consisted of coffee and bread and ham left over from the night before.  A heap of timber glowed
in the fireplace and shot forth ruddy flames.  Harry's soul fairly warmed within him.

"Sit down, all of you," said Colonel Talbot, "and we'll help one another."

They ate with the appetite of the soldier, and Colonel Talbot and Lieutenant-Colonel St. Hilaire,
finishing first, withdrew to a wide window seat.  There they produced the board and box of
chessmen and proceeded to rearrange them exactly as they were before the battle of Fredericksburg.

"You will recall that your king was in great danger, Leonidas," said Lieutenant-Colonel Hector
St. Hilaire.

"Truly I do, Hector, but I do not think it beyond my power to rescue him." Changing forms, but the soul remained motionless and unchanging, as of those
primitive beings, eternal witnesses of the first beats of life in planet, and seemed more
involved in the thick of dreams. And it would be good. Were great efforts in vain to escape
the fatal environment, heritage of the medium the circle in which we move forcefully, until
it was death and other similar animals came to turn in the same arena, believing free because they always
had before his steps new space race.

"The dead command," said Jaime once again in their thinking. It seemed impossible that men would
realize this great truth and are shaking in eternal night, thinking to new things in the glow
of illusions that arise daily, as there is the great deception sun to join the infinite, which
is dark and we find blue and radiant light ...

When Febrer thought this, the sun was hidden now. The sea was almost black sky leaden gray,
and the mist on the horizon lightning snaked down to drink in waves. Jaime felt on his face
and touch the wet hands of a few drops of rain. Would set off a storm that lasted maybe all night.
The lightning shone each closer. Rang a distant roar, as if two opposing fleets were being
shelling behind the curtain of mist on the horizon, approaching to it. The gentle water slides, smooth
as glass between the reef and the coast, began to tremble with ripples eccentric raindrops.

Despite this, the solo did not budge.

Remained in the rock, feeling a dull irritation against fate, rebelling with all the harshness of
his character against the tyranny of the past. And why had to send the dead? ... Why darkened the
atmosphere with particles of his soul, like a bone dust, which settled on the brains of living
by imposing old ideas? ...

Febrer suddenly suffered a dazzling impression, as though he saw an extraordinary light ever. His brain
seemed to expand, spread, as a body of water that breaks the camel oppressor of stone. It was
at the same moment a flash of light colored pale sea and thunder burst over his head, shaking
with a horrid clatter echoes the vastness Seas and the hollows and ridges of the coast.

"No, do not send the dead, the dead do not govern." Jaime, like a new man mocked his thoughts
shortly before. Those primitive beasts that he saw between the rocks, and like all animals including
sea and land, suffered slavery the medium. Sent the dead on them because they did what they would do
their descendants. But man is a slave in the middle: is your partner and sometimes its owner.
Man is an entity of reason and progress, and can modify the environment according to their
convenience. Was his servant in the past, in remote ages, but to dominate in part to the nature
and power exploit it, tore the fatal kind of wrap that other beings are prisoners of creation.
What could I care about the environment in which he was born? One would think if he wanted another
...

Could not continue in his reflections. The storm had, exploded on
him. The rain dripped the edges of his hat and ran along his back.

"Assuredly I will not forget it, Leonidas.  It will be no trouble to either of us to replace
them exactly as they were at a moment's notice."

Harry and Dalton were compelled now to return to General Jackson, and they did so, after leaving
many thanks with their generous hosts. Heavy winter rains began.  The country on both sides
of the Rappahannock became a vast sea of mud, and the soldiers had to struggle against all
the elements, because the rains were icy and the mud formed a crust through which they broke
in the morning.

While they lingered here news came of the great battle in the West, fought on the last day
of the old year and the first day of the new, along the banks of Stone River.  Harry and his
comrades looked for a triumph there like that which they had won, and they were deeply disappointed
when they heard the result.

Harry had a copy of a Richmond paper and he was reading from it to an attentive circle, but
he stopped to comment:

"Ours was the smaller army, but we drove them back and held a part of the field.  Two or three
days later we withdrew to Chattanooga.  Well, I don't call it much of a victory to thump your
enemy and then go away, leaving him in possession of the field."

"But the enemy was a third more numerous than we were," said Happy Tom, "and since it looks
like a draw, so far as the fighting was concerned, we, being the smaller, get the honors."

"That's just the trouble," said Dalton gravely.  "We are loaded down with honors.  Look at
the great victories we've won in the East! Has anything solid come of them?  Here is the enemy
on Virginia soil, just as he was before.  We've given the Army of the Potomac a terrible thrashing
at Fredericksburg, but there it is on the other side of the Rappahannock, just as strong as
ever, and maybe stronger, because they say recruits are pouring into it."

"Stop!  Stop, Dalton!" said Happy Tom.  "We don't want any lecture from you.  We're just having
a conversation."

"All right," said Dalton, laughing, "but I gave you my opinion."

Days of comparative idleness followed.  The Army of the Potomac moved farther up the river
and settled itself around the village of Falmouth. The Army of Northern Virginia faced it,
and along the hillsides the young Southern soldiers erected sign posts, on the boards of which
were painted, in letters large enough for the Union glasses to see, the derisive words:

                    THIS WAY TO RICHMOND

CHAPTER VII

JEB STUART'S BALL

But Hooker, the new Northern commander, did not yet move.  The chief cause was mud.  The winter
having been very cold in the first half, was very rainy in the second half. You are now most of my family and I ask for your advice. I have planned
a wedding that can save me: a marriage with wealthy person, but is not our class, but a low
origin. What should I do? ...

His aunt was waiting in a movement of surprise and curiosity. Perhaps the announcement of her
marriage softens. It was almost certain that, terrified by a danger so great for the honor his
home and his blood, raiding all, granting protection.

But the surprise, the frightened, was Jaime saw a cold smile pursed lips pale of the old.

- I know - he said -. I have told you all this morning in Santa Eulalia, after mass. Yesterday
were in Valldemossa. You marry ... you marry ... a chueta.

It took an effort to drop the word, shuddered to say it.

After that reigned in living a long silence, one of those tragic
and absolute silence that follow large catastrophes, just as if the
house had just come down, extinguishing the last echo collapsed wall.

-
And what did you think? - Timidly ventured to ask Jaime.

- Do what
you want - said the Popess coldly -.

Know we've been many years see us, and so podernos follow the rest of our lives. You and I are
now as other blood, we think differently, we can not understand.

- "So should I marry? - He insisted.

- That ask yourself.

Febrer years go by such roads, which anything of them may surprise me.

Jaime guess in the eyes and the voice of his aunt suppressed a pleasure, the pleasure of revenge,
the joy of seeing his enemies fallen in what he considered a disgrace,
and this irritated him.

- And if I get married - he said, imitating
the coldness of Dona Juana - "I can count on you?

Will he come you to my wedding?

This ended the tranquility of the Popess, and made it stand up with
pride.

Readings romantic youth came to his memory. He spoke like a queen outraged at the end of a
chapter of historical novel.

- Sir, I am Genovart by my father. My mother was Febrer, but well worth the few as others. I disown
blood will mix with the vile people, killer of Christ and I keep mine with my father, that is killing
me pure and honest.

He pointed out the door with a haughty gesture, ending the interview.

But then it seemed realize how out of time and stage of their protest, and dropped his eyes, became human,
taking an aspect of Christian meekness.

- Bye, Jaime; the Lord enlighten you!

- Goodbye, aunt.

He laid her hand, driven by custom, but she withdrew his right hand sharply, hiding behind his back.
Febrer smiled as he remembered some news of the gossips. This retraction does not mean contempt
or hatred. Was that the Popess had vowed not to touch life in the hands of other men than the
priests.

When he was in the street burst into insults silently, watching the big-bellied balconies the mansion.
Viper! I was glad of his marriage! ... When it was a fact, pretend outrage and shock at their
gathering.

Maybe ill, so that everyone on the island of pity, and yet his joy was overwhelming, the joy
of revenge incubated for many years, seeing a Febrer, the son of the hated man, lost in what he considered
the most outrageous of dishonor ... And he pushed through the agonies of ruin, should provide this
pleasure by marrying the daughter of Valls! ... "Ah, misery!"

He wandered until after noon the streets unfrequented Almudaina immediate and cathedral. The
weakness of the stomach instinctively guided their steps toward home. Ate silent, not knowing
what he ate, not seeing Mado, which worries from the previous day hovered around him, eager to
make conversation.

After eating out at a small gallery that overlooked the garden, with
its dilapidated rail of balusters topped by three Roman busts.

At his feet lay the leaves of fig trees the varnished leaves magnolieros, the green balls of
orange.

Cut in front of him blue space trunks of palm trees, and beyond the jagged battlements of the
wall lay the sea, bright, with thrills of life, as if his soft tickle boats epidermis, loose
their sails to the wind. On the right was the pass, with yellow masts and chimneys; more, there,
moving in the waters of the bay, the dark mass Bellver pine, and on its summit stood the ancient
castle, round as a place bulls, with its keep loose, isolated, no other bond than a gallardo
bridge. Below lay the red modern farmhouse Land, and beyond, the extreme point of the old port Pi,
with its signal tower and the batteries of San Carlos.

On the other side of the Bahia lost at sea, floating in the mists of the horizon, a rope of dark green
and red rocks, dark and uninhabited.

The cathedral stood out against the blue sky with buttresses and arches,
like a stone ship with the masts demolished that had thrown the waves
between the city and the coast.

More beyond the temple, the ancient fortress of red Almudaina showed his Moorish towers. In
the bishop's palace glowed like red steel sheets crystals of viewpoints, as if reflected in
a fire.

Between this palace and the sea wall in a deep pit full of grass, whose garlands of roses climbing
walls, numerous guns amontonábanse: some ancient, mounted on wheels, new age, scattered on
the floor, waiting, for years, the time to be located.

The towers were rusty armor, as the carriages, the long-range cannons, painted red and sunken in the
grass, seemed waste pipes. The neglect and abandonment oxide aged these modern pieces. The
environment that according to traditional ANTIQUING Febrer enveloped the island, seemed to weigh
on these instruments war, crumbling shortly after birth and before he had spoken.

Insensitive to the joy of the sun, palpitations bright blue extension at chirping of birds fluttering
at his feet, Jaime felt dominated by intense sadness, overwhelmed by despair.

"Why struggle with the past? ... How to free itself from its chain? ... Each birth is gesture
marking the site and for the entire course of its existence, and is useless to change position and posture.
"

Many times in his youth, from a peak to see the city and the laughing Area he had been haunted by thoughts
funeral. On the streets bathed in sunlight or the shells of the human anthill agitábase roof, driven
by needs and ideas the moment considered most important. Everyone thought the most candid and
vain of selfishness that a superior and omnipotent and directed watched his comings and goings,
equal to those of the infusoria in a drop of water. Beyond the city saw Jaime imagination monotonous
walls, cypress trees poking their points on them, a tight population of white buildings, with
windows and furnace mouths, which seemed to cover slabs cave entrances.

How many were the inhabitants of the city of the living in their seats and its wide streets?
Sixty thousand ... eighty thousand. Ay! In another village located a short distance tight,
quiet, compressed white houses among dark cypress trees, people invisible
were four thousand, six hundred thousand, maybe a million.

Then, in Madrid, had thought the same thing later that two women walking
around of the town.

The summits of the hills next to the river were occupied by dumb people white buildings arose
whose acute groups of cypresses. And side opposite big city there were also other camps in silence
and oblivion. The city lived among strong a tight cordon of nothing. Half a million living
Men swarmed in the streets, thinking he was alone in the control
and direction of life, without thinking or knowing four, six or eight
million fellow who remained invisible in the immediate burial.

Just thought in Paris, where four million residents lived surrounded awake twenty or thirty
million former inhabitants asleep forever, and the same funeral Tell them idea pursued in all
major cities.

The living are not alone in anything. The dead around them everywhere, and as they are infinitely
more, hanging over his existence with the heaviness of time and the number.

No, the dead will not be quick, as he believes the popular saying. The dead stand still the edge of
life, watching the younger generation, making them feel the authority
of gone through a rough stretch in his soul every time I try to move
away from the path marked by routine.

What tyranny yours! What power without limits! It is useless to stop his eyes and memory; They are
found everywhere, have occupied all the avenues of our existence, and leave us the way to remember
their benefits, forcing a debasing gratitude. What service! ... The house we live in was built by
the dead, the religions they created them, we obey the laws dictated
by the dead, and his work are also our passions and our tastes, foods
that sustain us, everything from the land plowed through his hands,
which are now dust.

Morals, customs, prejudices, honor, all his work. They think differently, one would be the current
organization of men. Nice things to our senses they are because they want the dead; the ugly and
useless they are mired in their vileness by the will of those who no longer exist; moral and
immoral are statements given by them for centuries.

The men who strive for new things that do nothing but repeat in different words same as the
dead said centuries ago.

What we consider most spontaneous personnel dictate what we teachers lying hidden in his bed of
earth, which, in turn, learned the lesson of other previous deaths. At the point of view of
our burning eyes the soul of our ancestors, as well as lines of our features are reproduced and
reflect the features of vanished generations.

Febrer smiled immense sadness. We think for themselves, and the convolutions of our brain waves
a force that has lived in other agencies, like the sap graft that carries power from the secular
and dying trees plantations new. What we sometimes spontaneously, as the latest addition to
our thinking, is an idea of ​​the other entrenched in our brains
from birth, and suddenly breaks his shell.

Tastes, whims, virtues, defects, affinities and repulsions everything inherited all work of disappeared
that survive in us.

With what terror thought Jaime in the power of the dead! ... Ocultábanse to make it less cruel
his despotism, but had not really died. Their souls were crouching and vigilant the bounds
of our existence, their bodies formed an entrenched camp around the urban agglomerations.
We spied with stern eyes, followed us, moving away with the lowest blow invisible attempted
diversion on the route. They gathered everyone to pull devilish hard herds of men who are released
to the conquest of a new ideal and extraordinary, restoring calm
violent reaction to life, who love quiet and placid, with whispers
of withered grass and white butterflies flutter: a sweet quiet cemetery
asleep in the sun.

The soul of the dead filled the world. The dead do not leave, because
they are the masters.

The dead command, and it is useless to resist their orders.

Ay! Man of big cities, who lives dramatically, do not know who made his home who prepared their
bread, and do not see the free nature other works that the poor trees adorn the streets, ignoring
the tyranny of the dead. Does not even learn that your life is going to millions and millions
of ancestors which are piled a few steps him and spying and direct. Obey blindly pulls, not knowing
where it ends the end of the rope tied to his soul, believes all his actions - poor robot! -
product his will, if not more than enforcement of omnipotent invisible.

Jaime, lost in the humdrum existence of a tranquil island, knowing their ancestors one by one,
knowing the origin and history of everything around him - objects, clothes, furniture - and
that house that seemed to have a soul, could tell this tyranny better than others.

Yes, the dead command.

The authority of the living, their amazing new, all illusion! Deceptions that serve to make us
cope with existential ...

Febrer, watching the sea, in which weak horizon marked the smoke of a steamer thought of the great
ocean liners, floating villages, speed freaks, pride human industry, which can result in a
short time around the world ... His remote ancestors of the Middle Ages, they were going to England
in a ship the size of a fishing boat, representing something extraordinary. And the great
masters of this, with its endless herds men, had not made major achievements that the commander
Priam with a handful of sailors.

Ah, life! What delusions, delusions embroider on it to hide the monotony its plot! The limited
their feelings and their surprise is desperate. Same is to live three hundred thirty years.
Perfect men toys useful for selfishness and welfare, machines, means
of locomotion, but apart from this, as they did before now.

The passions, joys and concerns are the same: human animal does not change.

He had believed a free man, possessor of a soul called "modern", yours,
all yours, and now she discovered in a confused mass of the souls
of their ancestors.

Could recognize because he had studied, because they were kept in an adjoining room, in the
file as those preserved dried flowers crushed between the pages of an old book. Most of human memory
saved only when more of their grandparents, the families that know in detail the story of his
past through the centuries, can not account ancestral life that lingers in your soul, taking
as inspiration the cries own The ascending release within them. Our meat is that no longer exist;
our souls are pieces of other dead souls.

Jaime was living inside the grave grandfather, Horace, and with it the scruples of Inquisitor Dean,
horrible card, and the souls of the famous commander and other ancestors.

His mentality of modern man kept some of that perpetual ruler he regarded as a race apart and
vilified the Jewish converts of the island.

The dead rule. Now explaining the disgust he felt when contact Don Benito with him as obsequious
and attentive ... And these feelings were irresistible! It those
imposed on others who were stronger than him.

I sent the dead, and must obey.

This pessimism reminded him of his situation. All lost! ... He was no good small business, transactions
and arrangements that take out a life of hardship.

Resigned to this marriage that was his only salvation, and creditors, so they found out of this waiver
fading hopes, would fall upon him. Would be expelled from the home of his grandparents, and people
will pity a pity more distressing to him that insult. He felt helpless to witness the final
shipwreck of his race and name. What to do ... Where to go? ...

Remained much of the afternoon watching the sea, following the course of the white sails after
hiding out or were lost in the expanded horizon of the bay.

By withdrawing from the terrace, Febrer, without knowing how, was opening the door of the oratory
an old door and forgotten, that creak on its rusty bolts scattered
dust and cobwebs.

Much time had not come there! ... In the dense environment of thought closed room feel a vague
smell of essences, perfumes open boat and left, a smell that solemnly
reminded the ladies of the family whose portraits were in the hall.

Through a ray of light filtering through the windows of the dome Spiral Dance corpuscles ascending
million dust ignited by the sun. The altar, old class, shone quietly in the dark with hints
of old gold.

On the table was sacred some foxes and a Cube, forgotten there for years, since the last cleaning.

Two
blue velvet couches seemed old even keep track of noble and delicate
bodies that no longer existed.

Were on their desks, and forgotten, two prayer books with the ends
gnawed through use.

Jaime recognized one of these books. It was from his mother, pale and sick poor lady who shared
his life between prayer and worship of a child for which he had dreamed of the greatest greatness.
The other that had once belonged to his grandmother, American that
the days of romance that still seemed to shake the big house the rustle
of her white dress and the whispers of his harp.

This appearance of the past, still latent in the abandoned chapel, the memory of those two ladies,
one all godliness, the other idealistic, dreamy and elegant, finished
upset Febrer.

And to think that soon the paws of usury so many things come to desecrate
venerable!

... He could not see it.

Goodbye!

Bye ...

At dusk searched the terminal to Toni Clapp.

With the confidence he felt for the friendly smuggler demanded money.

- I do not know when I will give it back. I'm going to Mallorca. To collapse everything, but I
do not see it.

Jaime Clapp gave more money than he asked. Toni was on the island, and with help Captain Valls
would try to settle their affairs, if it was possible.

The captain understood business and knew unravel the most confusing. Febres and he was at odds
since the day earlier, but no matter: Valls was a true friend.

- Do not tell anyone that I'm - added Jaime -. You just have to know you ... and Paul. You're right
saying it is a faithful friend.

- And when are you going? ...

The first steam expected to come out to Ibiza.

Even had there something: a pile of rocks with weeds and rabbits, a ruined tower of the time
of pirates. I knew by chance from the day before, had told him about peasants from Ibiza he had found
in the terminal.

- The same is to be there than anywhere else ...
Maybe better. Hunt, Pescare; I live without seeing people.

Clapp,
recalling his advice last night, pressed the hand of Jaime satisfied.
It No more the chueta! ... His soul was glad payés this solution.

-
You do well to leave. The other ... the other was crazy. 

Second
part

I

Febrer watched his image, shadow transparent, floating contours
for the thrill water, through which the sea could be seen with milk
stains sand and blocks dark detached from the mountain were covered
with scabs vegetables.

Seagrasses waved their green hair shaking,
round fruit similar the prickly pears agrupábanse whitish on the edges
of rocks, flowers appeared shining pearl in the deep green waters,
and between the vegetation of mystery Starfish highlighting their
points of color, apelotonábase the hedgehog as a blur spiked black,
unruly swam damselflies, and a silver sparkle and purple, tails and
fins, swift passing between clouds of bubbles emerging from a cave
to get lost in one face of unfathomable mystery.

James was leaning
over the railing of a small sailing boat that had its fall. In a hand
held up the volanti, long thread with many hooks that almost touched
the sea bottom.

It was about noon. The little boat was in the shade.
A living lay behind Jaime windings of large spots and deep recesses
bravia coast of Ibiza. Before him stood the Vedra, isolated rock,
superb marker of thousand feet, in their isolation still seemed huge.
At his feet was the shadow of the colossus to the waters a dense and
transparent color at a time. Beyond its boiling the Mediterranean
blue shadow bubbling with gold in the sunlight, and the coast of Ibiza,
stark red and seemed radiate heat.

Jaime came to fish every day of
calm in a narrow channel between the island and the Vedra. It was
on a good day a river of blue water, with underwater cliffs hovering
over the surface their black heads.  "We've
had some mighty hot talks with bullets and cannon balls, and some not so hot with words.  Just
now we were having one of the class labelled 'not so hot.'"

"What's the matter with you Johnnies?" was called across.  "You've broken off the talk just
when it was getting interesting.  Are you going to back out on that bet?  We thought you had
better manners.  We know you have."

"You're right, we have," said St. Clair, shouting across the stream, "but we were interrupted
by a man who hasn't."

"Oh, is that so?" was called back.  "If you've troubles of your own, we won't interfere.  We'll
just look on."

Bertrand was pallid with rage.

"I'm a captain in the Invincibles, Mr. St. Clair," he said, "and you're only a lieutenant.
You'll return to your regiment at once and prepare a written apology to me for the words that
you've just used to those Yankees."

"Oh, no, I won't do either," drawled St. Clair purposely.  "It is true that a captain outranks
a lieutenant, but you're a company commander and I'm a staff officer.  I take no orders from you."

"Nevertheless you have insulted me, and there is another and perhaps better way to settle it."

He significantly touched the hilt of his sword.

"Oh, if you mean a duel, it suits me well enough," said St. Clair, who was an expert with the
sword.

"Early to-morrow morning in the woods back of this point?"

"Suits me."

"Your seconds?"

Then Harry jumped to his feet in a mighty wrath and indignation.

"There won't be any duel!  And there won't be any seconds!" he exclaimed.

"Why not?" asked Bertrand, his face livid.

"Because I won't allow it."

"How can you help it?"

"It's a piece of thunderation foolishness!  Two good Southern soldiers trying to kill each
other, when they've sworn to use all their efforts killing Yankees.  It's a breach of faith
and it's silliness on its own account.  You've received the hospitality of my father's house,
Captain Bertrand, and he's helped you and been kind to you elsewhere.  You owe me enough at
least to listen to me.  Unless I get the promise of you two to drop this matter, I swear I'll
go straight to General Jackson and tell all about it.  He'll save you the trouble of shooting
each other. He'll have you shot together.  You needn't frown, either of you. It's not much
fun breaking the rules of a Presbyterian elder who is also one of the greatest generals the
world has ever seen."

"You're talking sound sense, Harry," said Happy Tom, an unexpected ally. "I've several objections
to this duel myself.  We'll need both of these men for the great battle with Hooker.  Arthur
would be sure to wear his new uniform, and a bullet hole through it would go far toward spoiling
it.  Besides, there's nothing to fight about.  And if they did fight, I'd hate to see the survivor
standing up before one of Old Jack's firing squads and then falling before it.  You go to General
Jackson, Harry, and I'll go along with you, seconding every word you say.  Shut up, Arthur;
if you open your mouth again I'll roll you and your new uniform in the mud down there.  You
know I can do it."

"But such conduct would be unparalleled," said Bertrand.

"I don't care a whoop if it is," said Harry, who had been taught by his father to look upon
the duel as a wicked proceeding.  "General Jackson wouldn't tolerate such a thing, and in his
command what he says is the Ten Commandments.  Isn't that so, Dalton?"

"Undoubtedly, and you can depend upon me as a third to you and Happy Tom."

"Now, Captain," continued Harry soothingly, "just forget this, won't you?  Both of you are
from South Carolina and you ought to be good friends."

"So far as I'm concerned, it's finished," said St. Clair.

But Bertrand turned upon his heel without a word and walked away.

"Hey, there, you Johnnies!" came a loud hail from the other side of the river.  "What's the
matter with your friend who's just gone away? I was watching with glasses, and he didn't look
happy."

"He had a nightmare and he hasn't fully recovered from it yet."

There was a sudden tremendous burst of cheering behind them.

"On your feet, boys!" exclaimed Happy Tom, glancing back.  "Here comes Old Jack on one of his
tours of inspection."

Jackson was riding slowly along near the edge of the river.  He could never appear without
rolling cheers from the thirty thousand veteran troops who were eager to follow wherever he
led.  The mighty cheering swept back and forth in volumes, and when a lull came, one among
their friends, the Yankee pickets on the other side of the river, called at the top of his voice:

"Hey, Johnnies, what's the racket about?"

"It's Stonewall Jackson!" Harry roared back, pointing to the figure on the horse.

Then, to the amazement of all, a sudden burst of cheering came from the far bank of the Rappahannock,
followed by the words, shouted in chorus: "Hurrah for Stonewall Jackson!  Hurrah for Jackson!"
Thus did the gallant Northern troops show their admiration for their great enemy whose genius
had defeated them so often. 

We were together for a month in Buenos Aires, in great need, waiting for the ships were prevented:
intermediate in which the city were put on brave 23.000 Indians, whose numbers composing Querandíes
the four nations, Bartenes, Charrúas and Timbúes, with the intention of finishing. A envistieron
to the city to enter it, others threw lighted cane arrows on houses, whose roofs were covered
with straw, except the General was of stone, and managed to burn the city entirely. Fired the
arrows, begins to fire for the tip, and thrown on and not go off, burn their houses before
they paste, and scorch whatever they touch.

We also burned in this function the Indians four large vessels, which were at sea half a league
from the port, and people from them, seeing the great multitude of Indians, passed to three
others were not far, and were supplied with mortars. Previniéronse to the defense, and watching
burn the four ships, fired many bullets against Indians would burn, that fearing the violence
of the shot, retreated, leaving quietly to the Christians, of whom died, in these trances, an
ensign and thirty more. This happened the day of San Juan Evangelista, 1535.

CHAPTER XII.

Becometh review of people, and ships are made to move forward.

After the above, everyone got on the ships, and D. Come Pedro de Mendoza named by Captain Juan
de Oyola general, the universal government of the people.

Reviewed, and only found Spanish 560, of 2500 who had left Spain, the others had died, and
most of hunger.

Oyola sent promptly produce eight brigs and some boats, leaving 160
Spanish in the custody of the four large vessels, and their captain
to John Romero, a quadroon ration of bread for a year, and that if
they wished, they seek him, he sailed with 400 men.

CHAPTER XIII.  I've forgotten
what it was."

"Well, I was.  We didn't know where we were going to stay, and a lady came from the big house
here down to the edge of the woods, where we were still sitting on our horses.  'Is this General
Jackson?' asked she. 'It is, madame,' he replied, lifting his hat politely.  'My husband owns
this house,' she said, pointing toward it, 'and we will feel honored and glad if you will occupy
it as your headquarters while you are here.' He thanked her and said he'd ride forward with
a cavalry orderly and inspect the place.  The rest of us waited while he and the orderly rode
into the grounds, the lady going on ahead.

"The general wouldn't take the house.  He said he didn't like to see so fine a place trodden
up by young men in muddy military boots.  Besides, he and his staff would disturb the inmates,
and he didn't want that to happen.  At last he picked the hunting lodge, and as he and the
orderly rode back through the gate to the grounds, the orderly said: 'General, do you feel
wholly pleased with what you have chosen?'  'It suits me entirely,' replied General Jackson.
'I'm going to make my headquarters in that hunting lodge.'  'I'm very glad of that, sir, very
glad indeed.' 'Why?' asked General Jackson.  'Because it's my house,' replied the orderly,
'and my wife and I would have felt greatly disappointed if you had gone elsewhere.'"

"And so all this splendid place belongs to an orderly?" said Harry.

"Funny you didn't hear that story," said Dalton.  "Most of us have, but I suppose everybody
took it for granted that you knew it.  As you say, that grand place belongs to one of our orderlies.
After all, we're a citizen army, just as the great Roman armies when they were at their greatest
were citizen armies, too."

"Ah, here comes the general now," said Harry, "and he looks embarrassed, as he always does
after so much cheering.  A stranger would think from the way he acts that he's the least conspicuous
of our generals, and if you read the reports of his victories you'd think that he had less
than anybody else to do with them."

General Jackson, followed by an orderly, cantered up.  The orderly took the horse and the general
went into the house, followed by the two young staff officers.  They knew that he was likely
to plunge at once into work, and were ready to do any service he needed.

"I don't think I'll want you boys," said the general in his usual kindly tone, "at least not
for some time.  So you can go out and enjoy the sunshine and warmth, of which we have had so
little for a long time."

"Thank you, sir," said Harry, but he added hastily:

"Here come some officers, sir."

Jackson glanced through the window of the hunting lodge and caught sight of a waving plume,
just as its wearer passed through the gate.

"That's Stuart," he said, with an attempt at severity in his tone, although his smiling eye
belied it.  "I suppose I might as well defer my work if Jeb Stuart is coming to see me.  Stay
with me, lads, and help me to entertain him.  You know Stuart is nothing but a joyous boy--younger
than either of you, although he is one of the greatest cavalry leaders of modern times." 

The general was launched the same evening, and came to us between three and four morning. The
Carcokies, seeing few, were for certain victory, but understanding that the general had followed
us, and were saddened by force, and to keep to their wives and children who were in town, helped
us all, bringing deer meat, and other beasts and birds, geese, chickens, sheep, ostriches, rabbits,
corn, wheat, rice and some roots, that was abundant in the province.

Bring these Indians on the lips a blue stone, as given, their weapons are darts, spears and
shields of guanaco skins.

The Indians bring pierced lips with a agugero boy, and he a little blue glass or green cotton
dress shirts without sleeves, are quite beautiful, spin, and care
house, and the Indians till the fields and need to care what other
families.

CHAPTER XLVIII.

Guapo river and people near Peru, and part two messengers to Potosi, Silver and Lima.

We took some Carcokies by guides to move forward, and in three days'
journey fled: proceeded without them, and arrived at Rio Chico, half
a league wide.

We could not pass safely, and to avoid every two soldiers made a Balsillas, or network of clubs shoots
and tissues, where, taken from the river, we could take the other side, in this step four
others were drowned. This river is very tasty fish, there are many tigers on earth.

Being a league from the village, located to four of the river, his Indians came to meet us, guests,
in Spanish, of which at first scared us. [45] Preguntámosles, what Mr. had, and who was its
mayor? - responded that they were of a Spanish nobleman called Peter Anzures.

In this town we found some people, and some critters like fleas [46] who go jumping, and if they
bite on the toes, or elsewhere in the body, will and gnawing them went, to grow as worms, similar
to those found in walnuts. If you go in time to remove them, not hurt, but if it expands the
choice, you lose the whole finger.

From Assumption to this people, according to astronomers realized there are 372 leagues there We
were twenty days, and so they got a letter from Lima, Peru's city of the kingdom in which he
lived, and was viceroy or president, Mr. de la Gasca, who is one
for which Gonzalo Pizarro was beheaded order with other, nobles and
commoners, and were condemned to the galleys.

It sent, by order of the King, life sentence, not the general pass
forward, but to await further orders in the pretty village.

Whose detention was because he feared Gasca that if you go in Peru, and moved a sedition against
him, we would join with Pizarro's followers who were fleeing, as no doubt would have happened if we
had gathered.

In order Gasca and the general concluded, leaving this very happy with the gifts that Sent: all this
was done without knowing the soldiers that if they penetráramos, she would sent to Peru tied hand
and foot.

After the general sent four soldiers to graduate Gasca, who were, the captain of Nuflo Chaves,
Agustin de Campos, Ruti and Rui Miguel Garcia. First came to Potosi, where ill and stayed
Ruti and Garcia, after a call to Cusco, from there to La Plata, [47]
and finally to the metropolitan Lima.

These are the four main cities of Peru and opulentísimas. There Campos Chaves and sailed and
came to Lima, the President, who having heard the relationship of all the provinces of Rio de
la Plata, their qualities and people, sent them and try to accommodate splendidly, gift with 2.000
ducats and Chaves commanded to reenter the general, not to leave the soldiers go in Peru, until
further orders, as he had sent, and to ensure they did not do wrong
to the Indians, nor allow them detract from if there is food.

 Well we knew they had silver
vessels, but they were sugetos to Spanish did not dare to take away anything.

The
messenger who brought the letter was taken by some Spanish, called Parnauvie,
in order General, because it was with great care, fearing not come
from Peru named successor in their government and its people, who already
knew was named [48], and therefore sent to Paranauvie diligently to
guard roads and collect the letters to find, and takes them the Carians:
This was done [49].

and his return puts (HERRERA, Decade 8, lib. 6, chap. 7, fol. 130 in
the year 1550.) The Potosi and Silver, whose places mention is made here,
and very close to this was generally abounded of silver, said Lopez writes,
chap. 13 of his History of the Indies, and a hundred pounds of metal,
which drew from the mines of Potosi, leaving pure silver fifty: but
these silver mines were found year of 1547, as stated PEDRO DE Cieza, Crónica,
cap. 110, lib. 4, chap. 6. HERRERA, Decade 8, lib. 2, chap. 14, fol.
40, or as ACOSTA, 1545. So that, while the Gorgeous general, were not
perhaps as well known and famous, although Emperor in the year 1549 it received
for its royal fifth every week thirty thousand, and many times forty
thousand pounds of silver: and instead of wages was given to the miners,
by the work of one week, and sometimes, two pounds of silver. He also
writes that there ACOSTA such an abundance of silver in Peru, which for
a long time and he built or was coined, and was not used coinage
that was to Caesar paid the royal fifth, of luck, many think that
even the it to any third-party money, nor paid him the fifth.

However, says he played the Emperor, for the fifth, from the year
of discovered the mines, until the year 1564, seventy-six million
and since 1564, until 1585, thirty-five million.

Up here LOPEZ, CIEZA and ACOSTA. (HERRERA, Decade 8, chap. 15, lib.

2, fol. 5.) (Note HULSIO.)]

CHAPTER XLIX.

The fertility of the land of handsome, and as we returned to the ships.

The province of the cute is so fertile, that throughout our journey not found, and saw the same,
or similar, because if an Indian cleaves a tree with a hocecilla, distilled, and it takes five
or six measures of honey, so pure like wine, and meal with bread or with other things, is
very nice food: it also makes wine taste that he must, even softer, and till the bees that are
small and sting. The general gave in machined with the soldiers, who could not be here due
to lack of supplies, but if we governor would have known that provision, we had not left the province,
and easily you need to find you. Finally, forced to go back, we came to the Carcokies, who had already
fled with their wives and children, and were better for them not to: the captain sent other
Indians to say back to his village, fearing nothing that would do them wrong. Did If the message:
before you respond, the sooner desamparásemos his people, if not, We would miss him with weapons,
with which we march against them. We wanted some excuse this time, telling the captain that
this war could be detrimental to the whole province; because, if you tried to walk from the
Rio de la Plata to Peru, she would fail Bastimento those who walk. But the captain and other soldiers
despised our opinion, and maintaining his own, continued the march and reached half a league
of Carcokies, already had planted at the foot of a hill near a forest to escape if the venciésemos.
Low Sirvióles its prevention, because lunges, and kill those who could, and intrigued nearly
a thousand in this battle.

Two months later we stopped at this village, which was very large, we returned the mountain of
San Fernando, where we had left two ships (as discussed in Chapter 44). Spend on this trip and
a half, doing nothing to fight continuously and intrigued 12.000 Indian, Indian and boys, that
forzábamos to be served as slaves and I was fifty.

We learned from the people of the ships, the discord that while we
were absent, were born between Diego de Abreu, Seville, Captain, and
Francisco de Mendoza, whom the general left for Captain of the people.

Diego de Abreu trying to deprive the government and resisting D.
Francisco Mendoza, hatred grew so that, having raised Abreu with the
government, he killed to Mendoza.

CHAPTER L.

Diego de Abreu is opposed to general, and the author receives letter from Germany.

Abreu Not content with this evil, the tumultuous state, city and garrison of the Assumption,
and tried to send people against us that we were approaching our general. But Abreu would not open
the door or give the city, and recognized as superior.

Viewing as declared general revolt, besieged the city with all its forces by fencing all, and that
was really warning: Soldiers in the square each day they came to our field, asking pardon of
the general, whom he met with Diego de Abreu could not trust its people, and fearing that he cogiésemos
night, or that the city was delivered by treatment [51] (Which would happen), in agreement with fifty
of his closest colleagues and friends, the forsaken, and gave the general. The minute they came
out of it, They asked all forgiveness, which granted frankly.

Abreu, the 50 Christians who followed him, turned aside 30 leagues of the place, where we could
not hurt, and he to us from anywhere. This war lasted two years, not living General insurance and
Abreu, because this was with his own, wandering like highwaymen,
omitting no opportunity of mistreating.

Viewing general lack of calm, determined reconciled with Abreu, proposing
to marry his two daughters with Alonso and Francisco de Vergara Riquelme,
relatives de Abreu, who accepted the match.

And marriages performed with various covenants, ceased concerns.

At this time, day of Santiago, 1552, received by the hand of Cristobal Rieser, broker Fúcares
in Seville, Sebastian Nidhart a letter that I wrote on behalf of my brother Tomas Schmidel, managers
who try to return to my homeland.

CHAPTER LI.

The author's permission, and down the Paraguay River, up the Parana.

Then took the letter to the general, and asked him to leave the journey. At first the reuse; and
having mentioned my work and annoying long service and loyalty continues that had run in the
King's service, and all this time consider how Bean dangers and miseries suffered, and how
many times I put the same general life without him never stopped, gave me leave with honor, and
letters to the King that, after giving of all the provinces of Rio de la Plata, pondered what I had
served in them.

Having arrived at Sevilla, I gave myself these letters to the King, and I made relation of
all these regions, and their circumstances, as closely as I could.

Warned for my trip, I took leave of the general and my colleagues: I took twenty Indians Carias
to bring me my clothes and other things, that many more would need in so long way. Eight days
before leaving, came one from Brazil, said ship had arrived in Lisbon
John was Helsen, Merchant of Lisbon, and Erasmus Schetz, a broker
at Antwerp and no miss this opportunity, I left the Assumption with
my twenty Indians in two canoes on the Rio de la Plata, the day of
San Estevan, to December 26, 1552, and after 46 miles, we Sabaya suberic
the people, [52] in which we gathered four Spanish, two Portuguese
that were unlicensed general.

We traveled 15 leagues, and reached the village of Gaberetho, then went to 16 miles to another,
Baroti called, from which, in nine days, we got in Bered, far from the town history 54 leagues.
We spent two days there, taking provisions, and recognizing the canoes because we had to climb up
the Parana River, 100 miles, and deposed all, we went to gin, town
where we spent four days, and before was due to decay, and was as
far as King extended his rule.

CHAPTER LII.

The author walks the ground, leaving the Paraná river, and what happened in Tupi.

We left the canoes and Paraná to go by land in the province of the
nation's Sliding [53] where to start the jurisdiction of the king
of Portugal: the whole journey takes six months, and there it many
deserts, mountains and valleys to go, so full of wild beasts, that
fear could not sleep safely.

The Indians of this nation will eat their enemies. They always have war, which is his greatest
delight: when due, the losers are the people with as much support as if wedding. If they want
to kill any big parties, and while they last, give everything asked and like, and wives to
have fun, until the time you have to kill.

Spend their days and nights in banquets and meals, drunk as herds of hogs Epicurus, more awkwardly
than you can say. They are very proud and haughty; make wine corn that get drunk: his language
is slightly different from that of tooth decay.

We arrived at another place called Careiseba, also inhabited by the Tupi. These are war with Christians:
the former are his friends.

On Palm Sunday we left to another people that was 4 miles, and the way they told us that those
of us Careiseba guardásemos and although we had no need of supplies, and which we had come forward,
did not want two of our companions, and went the people against our
advice, which just came in, were killed and eaten by the Indians.

Drew near to us after 50 Christians dressed and talked to us about thirty paces. Keep Indians
this custom, have become a little out of hand, if you talk to him is not presumed he thinks good
thing.

Viewing these bad signs, took up arms as best we could, and asked where were our classmates?
- responded that they were in his village and we prayed we were to
him, but knowing his deception, as toilets.

Dierónnos a dash Arrow, and shortly returned to his village, from which 6.000 came against us. Hallábamonos
no more defense than a forest next four muskets and 20 Indians Carias, who brought me to the
Assumption, and with so little strength we stayed four days against them. Disparábannos many
arrows, and considering the resistance was futile, to ambush us on the fourth night free Indian
food with lots of chasing us. Sucediónos As the saying goes - the
crowd of dogs is the death of the hare.

Went eight continuous days wandering through the woods: so that, although I have wandered both in
my life, I never had way more harsh, uncomfortable and ill at ease. Manteniámonos with honey and roots,
and we stopped to hunt some wild animals, because we Indians fingertips.

Finally we arrive to the nation Biesaie, where we spent four days and provide us with what we needed,
not daring to reach the people, by so few. 

In this nation is Urqu
river, we saw snakes, called in Spanish Schebe Eyba Tuescha, [54]
ten paces long and four inch wide. These snakes do much harm, because
if a man bathing in that river, or swimming wants to pass any animal,
the snake wraps in the queue to man or animal, and he gets under the
water and eats it: therefore always walk with your head above water,
looking if you pass any man or animal can be.

From here we walked
100 miles in a month, to give in Scheverveba, where people rest three
days, but so ripped and weaknesses of the journey and lack of food,
we never had in abundance but honey. And then we started to get sick,
lost all forces with the long and dangerous journeys made with great
poverty and misery, and the most principal, without food suitable
to the nature, or beds that resting, because we were carrying on their
backs, as everybody knows, were of cotton, tected as a network of
four or five pounds of weight and sleep were tied to two trees and
throwing it lies in the field: it is safe when they walk a few Christians
in India, in the houses and villages of the Indians.

It was after midnight now and Harry and his new friend, de Langeais, throwing their military
cloaks over their shoulders, walked out on one of the porticos for air.  Many people, black
and white, had gathered as usual to watch the dancing.

Harry glanced at them casually, and then he saw a large figure almost behind the others.  His
intuition was sudden, but he had not the least doubt of its accuracy.  He merely wondered why
he had not looked for the man before.

"Come with me a minute," he said to de Langeais, and they walked toward the tree.  But Shepard
was gone, and Harry had expected that, too. He did not intend to hunt for him any further,
because he was sure not to find him.

The brilliant spirit of the ball suddenly departed from him, and as he and de Langeais went
back toward the house it was the stern call of war that came again.  The deep boom of a cannon
rolled from a point on the Rappahannock, and Harry was not the only one who felt the chill
of its note.  The dancing stopped for a few moments.  Then the gloom passed away, and it was
resumed in all its vigor.

But Stuart came out on the porch and Harry and de Langeais halted, because they heard the hoofs
of a galloping horse.  The man who came was in the dress of a civilian, and he brought a message.

CHAPTER VIII

IN THE WILDERNESS

Stuart's brilliant figure was seen no more in the ballroom that night, but he disappeared so
quietly that his absence created no alarm at first.  There was a low call for Sherburne, and
the great cavalry leader and his most daring horsemen were soon up and away.  Harry and Dalton,
standing under the boughs of an oak, near the edge of the grounds, saw them depart, but the
dancers, at least the women and girls, knew nothing.

Another cannon shot came from some distant point along the stream, and its somber echoes rolled
and died away among the hills, but the music of the band in the ballroom did not cease.  It
was the Acadians who were playing now, some strange old dance tune that they had brought from
far Louisiana, taken thence by the way of Nova Scotia from its origin in old France.

"They don't know yet," said Harry, "but I'm thinking it will be the last dance for many a day."

"Looks like it," said Dalton.  "What time is it, Harry?"

"Past two in the morning, and here comes Colonel Talbot and Lieutenant-Colonel St. Hilaire."

The two colonels walked out on the lawn.  Military cloaks were thrown over their shoulders
and all signs of merry-making were gone from their faces.  They stood side by side and with
military glasses were sweeping the horizon toward the river.  Presently they saw Harry and
Dalton standing under the boughs of the oak, and beckoned to them.

"You know?" said Colonel Talbot.

"Yes, sir, we do," replied Harry.  "We saw General Stuart and his staff ride away, because
a messenger had come, stating that divisions of Hooker's army were about to cross the Rappahannock."

"That is true, but we wish no panic here.  Go back in the house, lads, and dance.  Officers
are scarcer there than they were a half hour ago. But you two lads will return to General Jackson
before dawn, while Lieutenant-Colonel St. Hilaire and I will gather up our young men and return
to our own place."

Harry and Dalton obeyed promptly, and took their places again in the dancing, but they soon
discovered that the spirit was gone from it. The absence of Stuart, Sherburne and others almost
as conspicuous was soon noted, and although those who knew gave various excuses, they were
not satisfactory. | "| | 1829 | 35
| 6 | "|" | "| | 1830 | 40 | 21 |" | "|" | +---------------------------------------------
-------+

+------------------------------------------------- ------------------------+ | YEARS | VAIN-|
COCOA EN | COCOA | TAMA-| FAT | SEBO | Wax | Wax | Wax | | | ILLA | PASTA | GRAIN | SURRENDER | | | FINA | YELLOW |
STRONG | |----+-----+--------+--------+------+---- --+-------+------+--------+------| | | Lib
o | ar. lib | ar. lib. | @. | @. | @. | @. | @. | @. | | 1825 | | 25 9 | 367 | 25 19 | 11 |
123 1 | 4 | 24 1 | | | 1826 | | 37 5 | 359 3 | 1 15 | 66 22 | 215 | 12 | 15 12 | | | 1827
| | 6 19 | 351 | 37 10 | 192 11 | 396 | 92 1 / 2 | | 22 22 | | 1828 | 8 6 | | 898 | 140 1
| 306 8 | 915 16 | 35 2 | August 1910 | 5 | | 1829 | 6 | | 453 15 | 159 12 | 293 22 | 1049
| 36 9 | 10 | 9 | | 1830 | | 67 9 | 875 19 | 57 16 | 218 20 | 955
| 29 | 11 | 5 | +---------------------------- ---------------------------------------------+

+-------------------------------------------------
------------------------+ | YEARS | OIL | OIL | OIL DE | SOLES | COFFEE
| STICK | SNUFF | VALUES | | | ALMONDS | MARY | COPAÍBA | | | To 3
ps | | PRODUCTS | |----+---------+------+---------+------+-- -----+-------+-------+----------|
| | Pounds.

| Lib. | Lib. | No.. | @. | Lib. | Pounds. | | | 1825 | 1 19-1/2 | 2 2 | February 1913 | 222 | 20 13 | 1
| 844 | 24 531 6 | | 1826 | 2 6 | | | 252 | 24 1 / 2 | | 593 | 23 701 4.5 | | 1827 | 16 |
| 3 | 285 | 9 12 | 1 3 | 723 | 49 721 5 | | 1828 | August 1 | | 2 5 | 521 ​​| 27 2 | | 400 | 26932 | | 1829
| | | | 269 | 16 | | | 19,905 4.5 | | 1830 | 4 | 4 9 | January 1918 | 373 | 46 90 | | | 26845
| +--------------------------------- ----------------------------------------+

Despite the great intermission to be seen in the revenues of the province during the course of these
six years, a gradual improvement. In the meantime, no credit should be given to the amounts
registered in revenues, as they are not them but the price rate to
conventional that appropriate employees of different goods in payment
of their salaries, and no so the real value they produce when they
are allocated to other buyers.

After Every employee has taken some of the effects on recovery of his salary, the excess is Espido to
Santa-Cruz, where it is sold for the government, who by way of relief instead gives each year,
four loaves of salt, spawned two hundred wool, two thousand pounds iron, steel three hundred,
four knives, a few reams of paper, a bag seventy pounds of flour and wine for the offices of
the churches. Well how inadequate it is estimated portions should be such a population of twenty-three
thousand souls.

A more productive plant for the state, residents Moxos grown for consumption of the province, all
those that are typical of warmer regions, such as rice, maize, groundnuts, beans, the sapallos,
cassava, sweet potatoes, papayas, pineapples, orange and bananas.

Natural products.

Moxos province, on account of the elevation of temperature, offers all the productions natural
hot countries of central America.

Its forests are inhabited by various monkey species whose skins are
truly magnificent, deer numbers are provided hunting to much advantage;
of large animals, abundant mainly east of the province and whose leather,
very convenient for its length and flexibility to harness the cars,
would be of great importance in trade.

The pericoligeros are also remarkable for their skin, the very great profits that can be drawn.

Hunting
in general can not be more abundant. The forests contain thousands of birds, the same as the plains,
where to hunt them are crossed on foot or by canoe, according to the stations.

Since so many rivers and lakes, fish so plentiful, that alone would suffice to satisfy a large
part of the needs of people in Moxos, if they knew these any process for regular fishing. The
rivers are full of shells containing a pearl so shiny and bright
as that of the mother-Ocean Pearl Islands and Panama.

The carpentry and joinery timbers are many and varied, and the palm
trees adorn the banks of all rivers, and between the totai distinguished,
the main action of indigenous peoples in times of distress.

The palm leaves, palm fronds, sumuque, totai and cucis, used to roof the houses of the Indians
or to tect hats and other items. The trunk of carondai used in the construction of solid roof,
giving to it the cutting and convenient way. The palm called chonta, is very useful for the hardness
of your Meder Black and beautiful: many palms, including those identified
by the marayahu give juicy fruit and pleasant, as are also the palm
fronds and cucis his excellency totai coconut oils.

The heart of all these trees can also provide a healthy and happy.

There are plenty of trees and plants that exude resins and various oils, applicable to Industry:
Indians to dye objects yellow, red and black, they use some simple that they are particularly
popular. The indigo is grown everywhere in the land he can not reach the floods. Copaiba is
very common, and the salsáfras, the guayacan or palo santo, etc.

Trade.

As the current trade in the province, as I said, almost esclusivamante an attribution State-profit,
no sooner was determined to go down once a year to its market, some speculators Short capital, either
by way of Cochabamba, either by the Santa-Cruz, but more often this last point, which is the most
advantageous to the merchants for the best reception are given.

Traders who wish to enter the province with the purpose of sale, send
request canoes send them immediately to Four-Eyes, Port Santa-Cruz,
or to Yuracares, port of Cochahamba.

The charges to these traders are from two to ten percent: must also pay for their accommodation
and round-table handling, a real diary, when they use canoes to go to other places, the pay assigned
to each rower is three real. All this is paid at the current price goods admitted in the square, which
is three times higher than the real and rational, a loaf of salt, for example, is two dollars,
a blanket, four, etc., etc.

The effects are more marketable, iron,
steel, wool spawns; tools agriculture such as axes, machetes, shovels,
etc., and salt; the genres of cotton, the thread wool of various colors,
the beads or beads, mainly yellow, the beads; silver medals or the
silver coin that the Indians hung around his neck instead of medals;
knives out of wood, the ordinary Tigeras, cotton handkerchiefs of
colors living, etc.., etc.

According to the current system, employees
are determined to reverse the entry of merchandise Cochabamba, in
order to book a Santa-Cruz only trade with Moxos; limited east to
the present, to the simple exchange of securities cases, it has not
yet entered to move money around in the streets of the province.

When traders want to collect some fruits, are routed directly to the capital at the time going
down to her usual administrators, leading the annual products of their respective missions.
All these employees then sell the goods they received in payment of their wages while The Indians
also make some negotiations, giving their cacao crops instead of several items whose positive
value is totally unknown to them: in such acts used all his guile to deceive the traders to the
Indians, who in turn take thousand precautions to avoid being deceived indeed very unequal contest.
To measure portions indigenous cocoa sírvense a small pumpkin, called herepo; equivalent measure
little more or less to two pounds of seed: Prior to the exchange,
each effect stranger is estimated at many herepos.

With this traffic, the number of tons of cocoa Esporta every year, when less than five thousand.

The
other products that use be waived today, consist of, in cow leather or animal jungle, article
of little value to the present, in wax, indigo, vanilla, sugar, coffee in timber joinery; in dye
stick, coconut oils and copal; in different resins, copal, incense, etc.., etc.

Currently only Moxos traded in the department of Cochabamba, and more
particularly with the Santa-Cruz, whose governors have banned almost
always communication and relationships trade with the province of
Chiquitos.

Trade with Santa-Cruz de la Sierra, which in truth is the only regular active, practice up and down
the river to the port Piray of Four Eyes, and by the Rio Grande Payload up or Bibosi, which
lies about a hundred and fifty leagues from the mission of Loreto. The first of these rivers has some
rapids, difficult to dry to save time, but they disappear In the rainy season: the much longer
distance seconded by his many rodeos.

Trade with the department of Cochabamba is almost nil, and never has been thought to This how easy
it would bring some Brazilian trade with the fort of Beira, or with Para down the Madeira River.

However,
under current circumstances many jumps and falls of this river have great difficulties for their
free navigation, which review will give here a slight to they can be seen somewhat similar
problems. More below the confluence Mamore and Guaporé is possible to navigate the space of a few
days without finding the slightest pregnancy, starting from the point already indicated in the road
that takes to go from San-Joaquin Exaltation to the vehicle of these
rivers.

Towards the tenth grade is the point of Itenes reunion of the Mamore [1] and not an island far
away, kind of pretty rock large and spacious where you can build a fort. From this point to
the mouth Madeira River will have two hundred sixty leagues, in the sixty first encountered twelve
waterfalls or rapids.

1 st The first waterfall, which bears the name of Madeira, is a little below the mentioned island,
and consists of three hops or steps to embrace half a league long.

To save it is necessary to download the canoes, é irlas pulling ropes for the space of six hundred
rods.

2 nd Half a league below are struggling with the Mercy. The work cost the navigator the passage of
this cascade, and the risks to which it exposes, dependent on river height.

3 rd Another half mile later, we present the cachuela of Ribeirao, consisting of five jumps occupying
the space of a league and tertiary.

To pass, the travelers unload their canoes, transporting goods on the shoulders by a shot of three
thousand yards, while towing lightened the vessel, or the drag on the ground.

4 th four leagues below the waterfall of Figueira, composed of islets and rocks that can not be
saved but impelled by a great work and great skill.

5 th Pederneiras then presented the twelve leagues below, the point where the river is full
of rocks that occur along the water, putting the rider in need to unload the vessel to tow while
carrying goods by land, on a piece of four hundred eighty yards.

6 ª Three leagues farther encountered with Paredao cachuela of where the river narrows and quickly
runs through rocks, but for a short distance.

7 th Six miles later, he found the Three Brothers, formed by some
breaks minor embracing a quarter of a league, without being big hindrance
to navigation.

8 th eight leagues below presents the cachuela Giran, where the river being very narrow and being
sandwiched between two hills, runs so fast that it is necessary to download the canoes ashore and drag
them out for a distance of hundred yards. It is composed this cachuela five short hops.

9 th continues then cachuela Hell, distant a league and a half of the above: this cachuela, which
is a mile long, consists of a number of eddies, extremely dangerous
whose traffic demands much skill and great work.

Six miles later 10 th shows the cachuela of Morrinhos, named for the fact of being located
a short distance away, on the West Bank, three small hills covered
sarsaparilla.

11 th Four miles later, is the cachuela Theotonio, a highlight of rocks of twenty-six feet high,
where water was distributed in four arms very wide, pass very quickly
through the cracks of the rock.

On the east bank, opposite of this superb dam is a set of rocks, which Western auction being
closed, does that meet in a narrow waters of the three channels, the extremity of rocks and
the left bank of river. There is therefore indispensable to pull the boats ashore and drag with a
lot of work for a stretch of five hundred yards.

12 th A little over a mile away cachuela hampered by the San-Antonio,
where they spend the waters divided into three channels formed by
two rocky islets.

You must download the canoes in order to save this step. This cachuela, first presented to the travelers
who sail upstream, is placed under the 8 degrees 48 minutes south latitude.

Empléanse usually three months to climb from the waterfall to the Guaporé. From San-Antonio
cachuela to the mouth of the Madeira River are counted more than thirty islands are generally three
miles long, and are populated by the most beautiful trees : There are also countless smaller islands,
the largest among these, is called Mine, which stretches about two miles and a half to the length
and width of which is a little more or less than a league: This island is located seventeen
miles below the mouth River of Marmellos.

The waters of the Madeira River and the Rio Marañon river are black, which has a league width
at points where there are no islands, it embraces two and sometimes more in those where there.
Sixty miles below the Madeira River, going straight, or ninety, following the windings, is to meet
at the famous river Marañon Tapajoz, and sixty leagues under the
latter, the Xingu river, also very plentiful, and lower Cuyaba province.

The

Maranon or Amazon is then gradually widening to plunge into the sea.

Moral and administrative improvements that the province is susceptible.

Being now the province of Moxos head of a department is likely to prosper without interruption
in all respects and in all areas, particularly if the care provided prefectural government to instruct
his men to make educated and able to march in front introducing into
it since then, and at the same time, any possible improvements.

It is above all necessary to reform the religious abuses I have mentioned, but it is necessary
work in this regard with the utmost tact, and taking the utmost care so as not to go to the
Indians from one end to another, of their fanatical beliefs to a
full irreligion.

All the reforms of this kind should not be introduced but little
by little, without making use of absolute rules, and making the transition
is insensitive to the utmost.

The medium would be more effective to put in these educated church
missions, that would make excel healthy and well-understood moral
of Catholicism in the religious beliefs of the Moxenos, on abolishing
exaggerated penances and punishments bloody, unworthy and agencies
and the enlightened age in which we live.

Meanwhile, there would no longer be harmful to my way to see that the civilian administration
ostensibly meddle in the execution of these reforms, serious as feared that reaching the Moxos
to be freed from this background that keeps religion offline, it corrupted everything. Finally, the
execution of such a reform is extremely difficult, and requires all
the wisdom, the wisdom of an enlightened government, to be driving
the car of the improvements with the greatest possible restraint and
caution.

Administrative reform requires no less tact and prudence. A people who lived during almost two centuries,
accustomed to more humble servility, and to not have anything in property can not move from
a blow to full independence without exposing to greater evils than which seeks to redress. It
would then need to place at the same time, in every mission, a man able to teach with due care
to these infants of civilization to take the first steps towards freedom of action, towards
individual ownership, and above all, towards relations This mutation determines social things. Meanwhile,
it is clear that if trade All their activity is not power the Moxenos, to encourage further
work to industry, making them meet certain needs while still ignored being too sober in nature, and
little ambitious, certainly abandon all gainful occupation as soon as they saw free, and will result
from this fact, instead of civilization perhaps his greatest hindrance. There is also a factor
to consider important, and that the inhabitants of Moxos are nothing more than mere craftsmen,
and that this class of individuals, even in Europe itself, can not
make any progress, but under the direction of learned men and able
to engage in any kind of improvement.

It is necessary see that a people and a high degree of civilization to sugetarse factory work;
Moxeño so that, seeing books before they be established manufactures in the province to take up arms,
came out, I repeat, by losing what little they know today, at the same while industrial habits.
This is one of the highest political economy issues that the government will know probably appreciate
it properly, taking measures that will lead the general interest of the inhabitants, while tending
to the advancement of the country.

Always returning to the same subject, and I insist that frequent certain relationships by trade,
and continued contact of natural men who are Moxos exceed the education, customs and industry,
can only operate between them by little and little natural and positive reform, in that, any
action out of time maybe it would bring disastrous results. Therefore urges primarily promote
trade by abolishing certain taxation to facilitate it, and then the Moxos, knowing what they
are worth, and they can do to procure the welfare, civilized and march towards a social state
prosperous and stable.

To aid in this forward march, is indispensable, as it has practiced the current government,
schools that teach not only the Spanish language, but also mathematics and drawing, in order to do
that they go together, moral instruction, industrial and commercial. To encourage the study would
be necessary, there more than anywhere Moreover, distributed as a reward honorable awards provided
the talent and to the nature of individuals, since it had some that were marked by any kind
merit.

We must not lose sight of the creatures Moxeño are great, and that will result from them whatever
you want, provided that the good deeds will be timely rewarded somehow.

One of the essential measures for improving this province, it is particularly which is aimed
at preventing the death of the creatures, and the plague of smallpox that strike adults. Such
evils are decimating the population, where significant accretion should for such favorable
conditions under which it is attached. It is therefore of absolute need to seat in each canton to
a doctor paid by the government and responsible for manage relevant
health condoms.

The priests, whom the ministry gets more in touch with the people, should take his by propagating
the vaccine, and epidemics, constantly monitor the actions of Indians to prevent these from
leaving their homes to go to bathe, as they always do, shopping with passengers life a relief.
It could also pray for the priests, care to take great care to preserve the creature born of the
action recently South Wind, as pernicious in this province and that of Caupolican.


Harry had nothing to do but to keep near his general, in case he was wanted.  But he watched
everything with the utmost interest.  Once he looked back and saw the Invincibles, few in number,
but still preserving their regiment, marching in brave style along the plank road.  Colonel
Talbot and Lieutenant-Colonel St. Hilaire were riding side by side at its head, and in all
the army there were not two more erect and soldierly figures than theirs.

They soon heard heavy artillery discharges from the other force on the pike, and the fire in
front of them increased heavily.  Nevertheless both forces pushed resolutely onward.  Harry
had no idea what it all meant.  The movements of Hooker were a mystery to him, but he felt
the presence of an enveloping danger, through which, however, he felt sure that the sword of
Jackson could slash.

He saw that the generals were neglecting no precautions.  The scouts and hardy riflemen were
now pressing through all the forests and thickets, like Indians trailing in the Wilderness.
They kept the two forces, the one on the plank road and the other on the pike, in touch.  McLaws,
who had shown so much spirit and judgment at Antietam, led on the pike.

Now the fighting increased on both roads.  Batteries faced batteries and cavalry charged. 
But Harry felt all the time that these were not supreme efforts.  The opposing force seemed
to be merely a curtain before Hooker, and as the Southern army advanced the curtain was drawn
steadily back, but it was always there.

One of the encounters rose almost to the dignity of a battle.  A heavy division of Northern
regulars drove in all the Southern skirmishers, but Jackson, sending forward a strong force,
pushed back the regulars in their turn.  Harry watched the fighting most of the time, but at
other times he watched his general's face.  It was the usual impenetrable mask, but late in
the afternoon Harry saw a sudden sparkle in the blue eye. He always believed that at that moment
the general divined the enemy's intentions, but the boy never had any way of knowing.

Scouts came in presently and reported that another heavy column was marching from the Rappahannock
to join Hooker in the Wilderness, and now the advance of the Southern force became slower.
It was obvious to Harry that Jackson, while resolute to follow Hooker, intended to guard against
all possibility of ambush.  Harry knew nothing then of the Chancellor House, but Dalton told him.

"It's a big place," he said, "standing on a heavy ridge surrounded by thick timber, and it's
a natural presumption that Hooker will stop there.  From the timbered ridge his cannon can
sweep every approach."

Harry had no doubt that Hooker would halt at the Chancellor House. It was incredible that a
great army of brave and veteran troops should continue to retreat before a force which his
scouts had surely informed Hooker was far smaller, and only a portion of the Confederate army.
It must be merely a part of some comprehensive plan, and he was confirmed in his belief by
the increasing stubbornness of the defense.

There was not sufficient room on either the plank road or the pike for all the Confederate
infantry, and masses were toiling through the dense thickets of bushes and briars and creeping
vines.  The afternoon was growing late, and while it was yet brilliant sunshine in the open,
it was dark and somber in the Wilderness.

The division of Jackson seemed almost lost in the forest and undergrowth.  The cavalry riding
along some of the narrow paths were checked by large forces in front, and fell back under the
protection of their own infantry.  On another path a strong body of Southern skirmishers drove
back those of the North, but were checked in their turn by a heavy fire of artillery.

Harry witnessed the repulse of the Southern riflemen and saw them crowding back down the path
and through the bushes which lined it on either side.  He also saw the usually calm and imperturbable
face of Jackson show annoyance.  The general signed to his staff, and, galloping forward a
hundred yards or so, joined Stuart, who was just in front. Stuart also showed annoyance, but,
more emotional than Jackson, he expressed it in a much greater degree.  His face was red with
anger. Harry, who as usual kept close behind his commander, heard their talk.

"General Stuart," said General Jackson, "we must find some position from which we can open
a flanking fire upon that Northern battery."

"Aye, sir," said Stuart.  "Nothing would delight me more.  The narrowness of the road, and
their place at the head of it, give them an immense advantage.  Ah, sir, here is a bridle path
leading to the right. Maybe it will give us a chance."

The two generals, followed by their staffs and a battery, turned from the main body into the
narrow path and pushed their way between the masses of thick undergrowth, bearing steadily
toward the right.  But the road was so narrow that not more than two could go abreast, the
generals in their eagerness still leading the way.

Harry, rising up in his stirrups, tried to see over the dense undergrowth, but patches of saplings
and scrub oaks farther on hid the view.  Nevertheless he caught the flash of heavy guns and
saw many columns of smoke rising.  It was toward their left now, and they would soon be parallel
with it, whence their own guns would open a flanking fire, if any open spot or elevation could
be found.

They had gone about a half mile, when Stuart uttered an exclamation and pointed to a hillock.
It was not necessary to say anything, because everyone knew that this was the place for the guns.

"Now we'll drop a few shells of our own among those Yankee gunners and see how they like it,"
said Dalton.

The cannon were unlimbering rapidly, but the open space on the hillock was so small that only
one gun could be brought up, and it sent a shot toward the Union lines.  The Union artillery,
superb as always, marked the spot whence the shot came, and in an instant two batteries, masked
by the woods, poured a terrible fire upon the hillock and those about it.

So deadly was the steel rain that the little force was put out of action at once.  Harry had
never beheld a more terrifying scene.  Most of the horses and men around the first cannon were
killed.  One horse and one gunner fell dead across its wheels.  Other horses, wounded and screaming
with pain and fright, rushed into the dense undergrowth and were caught by the trailing vines
and thrown down.  Some of the cavalrymen themselves were knocked out of the saddle by the fleeing
horses, but they quickly regained their seats.

A second discharge from many guns sent another rain equally as deadly upon the hillock and
its vicinity.  More men and horses fell, and a scene of wild confusion followed.  Attempting
to turn about and escape from that spot of death, the cannon crashed together.  There was not
room for all the men and horses and guns.  Most of them were compelled to plunge into the undergrowth
and struggle desperately through it for shelter.

But Harry did not forget the two generals who were worth so much to the South.  It would be
fate's bitterest irony if Jackson and Stuart were killed in a small flanking movement, when,
as was obvious to everyone, a battle of the first magnitude was just before them.  And yet,
while fragments of steel, hot and hissing, fell all around them, Jackson and Stuart and all
the members of their staffs escaped without hurt.

The deadly fire followed them as they retreated, but the two generals rode on, unharmed.  Harry
and Dalton breathed deep sighs of relief when they were out of range.

"If a bullet had gone through my left side," said Dalton, "it wouldn't have come near my heart."

"Why not?"

"Because my heart was in my mouth.  In fact, I don't think it has gone back yet to its natural
place.  The Yankees certainly have the guns."

"And the gunners who know how to use them.  But doesn't it feel good, George, to be back on
the plank road?"

"It does.  I'll take my chance in open battle, but when I'm tangled up among bushes and vines
and briars, I do hate to have a hundred-pound shell fired from an invisible gun burst suddenly
on the top of my head. What's all that firing off there to the left and farther on?"

"It means that some of our people have got deeper into the Wilderness than we have, and are
feeling out Hooker.  I imagine we won't go much farther.  Look how the night's dropping down.
I'd hate to pass a night alone in such a place as this Wilderness.  It would be like sleeping
in a graveyard."

"You won't have to spend the night alone here.  I wish I was as sure of Heaven as that.  You'll
have something like two hundred thousand near neighbors." From there we went to a village of Christians I had to
dens of thieves. It was his captain Juan Reinville, who was then absent, certainly for our good,
in the town of San Vicente, with other Christians to fulfill certain adjustments had been made. These
Indians, (with which Christians live in two villages 800) are sugetos the king of Portugal, but
below the power of Juan de Reinville, which was very obeyed because India had been in 40 years as governor,
made war, and pacified the province and judged that he deserved no better than the government.
And because he was not given long, armed wars and collected in a 5.000 day Indian warriors,
and the King of Portugal could not collect 2.000. Such was his authority and power in these provinces!
When we arrived, was at home of his child, who treated us with much entertainment, and yet a
cure for his people rather than the Indians, and because we all came out well, we were very glad,
giving thanks to God us safely out of that town.

CHAPTER LIII.

Author comes out of San Vicente, sailing to Spain, and provides second
headwinds port once the Holy Spirit.

From there we went to the little village of San Vicente, which is 20 miles from the background. Day
July 13, 1553 at the port are a Portuguese ship laden with sugar
from Brazil and cotton, by Peter Rosel, [55] Erasmo schitz factor
of Antwerp, who resided in San Vicente, and sent it to John Hulsen,
resident of Lisbon, who also was a factor.

He received with love and honor Rosel, requested that I received at the ship, begging the sailors
who treat me as his preferred which they did faithfully.

Eleven days we stopped in San Vicente, where we provide everything you need for navigation. There
from the Assumption to San Vicente in Brazil, 376 miles, which we came in six months.

We left San Vicente, San Juan Bautista Day, 1553, and at fourteen
days at sea, agitated of continuous storms and contrary winds, broken
tree ship, knowing where we were, enter the port of the Holy Spirit
in Brazil, inhabited by Christians, who with their children and wives
till sugar.

There are cotton, large and many clubs from Brazil and other merchandise.

In this sea, especially among Sancti Spirits and San Vicente, and most of all, there are large
whales [56] and fish, as big as them, often do great harm, because when sailors go on a ship's
skiffs to another, usually come as a herd of whales to fight one another, and overturn the
navichuelos, killing people. They are always throwing water, and increasingly so, on average
French Cuba, because they put their heads under water and again to
remove it right away, throwing it, as has been said.

Which had not seen this ever, would think that navigating a lot of
rocks.

CHAPTER LIV.

The author leaves the port of the Holy Spirit and comes to the Third
and the Azores, sailing to Spain and thence to Flanders.

Take the earth again by storm.

Four months we were at sea, after we left the Holy Spirit, continued sailing without seeing land
until the Third Island, where we spent two days, and provide us bread, meat, water and other
necessary things fresh. Obey the king of Portugal.

In fourteen days of sailing we arrived at Lisbon, September 3, 1552, and having been it another
fourteen days, and killed two of the Indians that I had, I went to Seville, which 42 miles far
from Lisbon, and arrived in six days. After sailed by sea to San Lucar in two days: there was
one night, and went overland in a day at the port of Santa Maria,
and another day I went to Cadiz, on the ground.

I found in the bay 25 large Dutch hookers, back to his province: a greater and more beautiful,
new and only once had sailed to Spain from Antwerp. Aconsejábanme the merchants that I embark
on it, and adjusted to Henry Schertz, your employer, my journey: for which warned me that afternoon,
being in agreement with him that I be warned when leaving.

I got into the ship carrying wine, bread and the like, and some parrots who brought from the Indies.

That
night he drank the pattern more than you should, and my goodness he forgot me and left me the inn
is two hours before dawn, the pilot ordered that it should be sailed. Looking very tomorrow
where the ship was, and who had a league of land section, I was obliged take the eye to another,
and deal with another patron, whom he gave the same as the first.

Out of these twenty-four ships port, we were happy to wind three days, then rose a storm so
terrible that we could not continue the journey. Wait eight days fastest time but the more we
stopped, the storm raged, so that no pudiéndonos keep at sea, we turned down the same road
at the port, and Enrique Schertz, (which was the ship that had put my clothes and had been
forgotten), came last. A league Cadiz, and the dark night, the lantern became captain of the
navy, so that others pilots and continued to see her. We arrived at Cadiz, and anchored ships,
remove the lamp, and became the earth, with good advice, a fixture beside a mill, a bullet
shot Cádiz. But it was of great harm to Henry, Schertz, who thought he was bluffing, and directed
his ship right into the fire, and gave great impetus in the rocks
that were under water: so that took a thousand pieces, and sank with
all people and goods, dying quarter of an hour 22 people, leaving
alive only the captain and the pilot, who left clinging the largest
tree, also sank six baskets of gold and silver were to give the Emperor,
and a lot of merchandise, causing the wreck Estrema poverty to many.

I thanked Almighty God, that his mercy did not allow me to embark
on that ship.

CHAPTER LV.

The author again sailing from Cadiz to Antwerp.

The day of San Andres, two after this misfortune, we made sail to Antwerp: suffering so great
a storm, the sailors swore that he had twenty years, or that all the time sailing, no storm had been
more cruel or horrible tornadoes.

We arrived Wight, England port, without trees, wheels, or anything else that could serve in
navigation, so if the journey had lasted a few days more, none of the 24 ships have been saved.
But God saved us from this danger almost obvious, because about same place, the first day of the
year 1554, eight ships were wrecked, plunging miserably all people,
not save anyone, and the goods and other precious things: it happened
This calamitous shipwreck, between France and England.

Detuvímonos four days in Wight, composing our ships.

The best we could, we made sail for the Brabant, and reached Armuyden, city of Zeeland, where
there are a multitude of ships: this city is far Wight 47 leagues. From there we sailed 24
leagues to Antwerp, where we arrived safe and free to January 25, 1554.

EPILOGUE.

So, after twenty years, by a singular providence of Almighty God,
I got there from which it came, but in many, many dangers of life
and body I had and tried, few hunger and misery, care, work and anxieties,
to walk in the provinces Indians, enough may be understood this historic
declaration.

But give to God Eternal and Omnipotent many thanks I can conceive
in your mind, because I returned safely to the places, which I left
twenty years earlier.

Be glory and honor to himself, forever ever.

Amen.

CONTENTS OF THE MATERIALS CONTAINED IN VIAG

OF

Ulder Schmidel AL
RIO DE LA PLATA.

The names in italics are those which, having been adulterated by
the author, have become unintelligible.

  A

  Girls and stingless
  bees -
  52.
  
  Acaraiba. Village of Carias Froemidiere leagues at 20 - 40.

  
  Acar, Indians. Her dress, food and the
  reason for its
  name - 31. Your
  Province - 30. Dan guides to Hernando de Rivera - ibid.

Agac,
  Indians stubborn warriors on land and sea
  traces and ornaments - 38. Oyola
  overcome by loss of five Spanish
  - 35.

Those of the people killed
  by Carias others are forgiven - ibid.
  Sent to Spain, Cabeza de Vaca, rebel - 38.
  

Water. Missing in Peyonas,
  fertile land being - 45.

The Sivisicosis have war with the neighbors about it - 46.

Which show the whales - 58.

  Agustin del Campo, Nuflo is going to Lima Chaves - 50.

  
  German and Flemish. 80 with D. embark Pedro de Mendoza
  - 3.
  
  Carob - 19. They came of them Indians - 15.
  
  Cotton. In the town of the Holy Spirit of Brazil - 58.

Spin and the Indian
  tegen - 43.
  

Alonso de Cabrera. Get to Buenos
  Aires with relief goes to the Timbús, and dispatches
  notice to Spain according
  to Oyola - 24. Surge in Santa Catalina
  and 200 with a Spanish caravel, and two
  months go to Buenos
  Aires - ibid. Getting rid of a storm by
  the knowledge
  of its pilot,
  and arrived
  in Buenos Aires 30 days sooner than those
  who came with him
  - 26. Turns to
  others to Cabeza de Vaca
  - 37.
  
  Alonso Riquelme marries the daughter
  of Irala, and why?
  - 53.
  
  Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca, Treasurer of the Navy
  that led Panfilo de Narvaez to Florida
  - 36. Advance Rio
  de la Plata, Santa Catalina comes to how people
  and what year? - 26. Send to
  seek Bastimento two caravels,
  and lost, saving his people
  and takes eight to go and get
  in the Assumption, ground - 26. Taking possession, and adjusted
  Irala is prevented to discover, and send
  people ahead - 27. Aracaré ago
  the chief process, and sends him hanged, with
  the agreement
  of royal officials
  and others - 27. Send to Irala
  with 2.000 Carios against Tabaré - 28.
  And his good fortune makes him embark,
  and arrives at Mount San
  Fernando, he fled Payaguá, and arrives
  at the Sococies - 29. Reports of other Indians and not
  finding them in 18
  days turns
  to the Kings - ibid. Send to
  Francisco de Rivera with
  10 Spanish to recognize and try to discovery,
  and prevent the water - ibid. Send
  to Hernando de Rivera
  to Xarayes - 30. And again, he turns, and
  heaves its people
  - 35. Forced him to be satisfied, having failed to your computer
  - ibid. Solve the journey
  itself and do not want to follow the soldiers
  - 36. Spanish prohibits the Indians
  had carried, and hateful, for
  this and Other reasons wicked - ibid. Ill
  at the Kings - 37. Sent to kill the Sococies to the
  island, and approves its destruction
  - ibid. Back to the Assumption,
  and sick, and why not leave
  the house in 15 days? - ibid.

Préndenle royal officials to send to Spain - ibid. Repelled
  by loyal and ignore them
  rebels - 38. Treat the author
  wickedly - 37.

What made quickly marred by envy and
  hatred - 29.

Is sent to
  Spain, riots among soldiers, and Rise of the cavities - 37.

Acquitted
  by the Council will punish is not strange false witness - ibid.

  
  Amazon.

Hernando de Rivera is news of them, and party to seek, and how they
  live and
  preserved and treasures
  of their land - 32.
  

Antwerp.
  It leaves the author - 3. He returns
  after 20 years - 61.
  
  Anmuyden, City of Zeeland. It has many bagels - 60.

  
  Ducks, in Mapais -
  43.
  
  Antas animals such as donkeys, and
  skin and scalp
  - 19.

  Antonio Grovenor. You
  will discover Indian order of Cabeza
  de Vaca, and is maize in
  the Samococis, and into the interior, and arrives at the Cambal - 27.

  
  Aracaré, cacique.

Tabaré brother
  - 28. Processed by Cabeza de Vaca, makes it hang - 27.
  And the land rises
  to avenge - ibid.
  
  Antonio de Mendoza.
  Governor is
  in Corpus Christi - 22.

And in what
  order - ibid. Engáñale an Indian and Spanish
  lost 50 - 23. Sítianle Indians and falling into a trap
  of them is dead and people are going to Buenos Aires - ibid.

  

D. Navy Pedro de Mendoza. Sale of San
  Lucar day 1. St September, 1534 - 3. Turns
  itself to join the Canaries - 4.

Get to Rio de Janeiro - 5. And
  the Rio de la Plata
  - 6.
  
  Rice on the island of
  Santa Catalina - 22.
  In Carcokies - 49.

  Assumption, city. As far from the island of Santa Catalina
  - 26. And in Peru - 50. His neighbors are divided
  into factions: head inmate cow Indian rebel - 36. Besieged
  by Irala, delivered, fleeing Abreu - 53.
  
  Assumption,
  people. Llamosa and Lambaré
  by Oyola -
  17. He left 100 men to enter the Payaguá,
  and in what order - 18.
  
  Attune, Sliding called to chiggers - 50.
  
  Aves. Many in an uninhabited
  island, that sticks to kill soldiers
  - 5. Many in the Mapais - 43.

Ostriches
  in the cavities
  - 12. In Zemais - 14. In Xarayes - 31. In
  Peyonas
  - 45. In Mapais - ibid. In Barcones - 46. In Carcokies
  - 49.
  
  Author. Sale of Antwerp, Cadiz is about to embark
  for the Rio de la Plata - 3. Little hits
  at distances of land - 4. Goes against the Querandís with D.
  Pedro
  de Mendoza - 7. Appointed
  with six others confidence to go to Santa
  Catherine Gonzalo de Mendoza - 24. Saved, returning
  from a storm on a stick
  comes to eating roots and San
  Gabriel - 25. Huanacos
  horse came to more than 40 leagues about
  being sick - 43. Take
  19 Indians in the defeat
  of the Mbayas - 43. Irala Ponele sentry in a well, and
  made many friends - 47. Indian slaves had 59 - 52. He is wrong in the names
  and altered; so it
  is not easy to understand - 14
  56. Was misinformed about the
  things of government - 26. He mocks those
  who have the alligators, or alligators - 31. What won the day Xarayes -
  35. Lies far from Cabeza de Vaca - 37. If you lost
  sight of Ursa Major on the islands of Cape Verde, or was wrong? -
  36. Dropsy
  gives you the Assumption - 38. Write her brother back to Germany
  - 54. Irala gives you license and
  says goodbye to his
  friends and with
  20 Carios arrive in canoes
  to suberic Sabaya - 54. Browse the
  Parana enters the Tupi, and fear
  he had of the beasts in the
  deserts - 55. Defiéndese
  six Spanish and Indians four days against Sliding,
  ambushed and fled, remaining
  root and honey and arrives
  at the Biesayes - 56. Sick with
  the others in Scheverveba,
  and arrives
  at a village where a child
  entertains Juan
  de Reinville - 57. Get to San Vicente
  and Juan Rosel will get well, and recommends to the sailors of a
ship that went to Lisbon - 58.

Embarks, and storm returns to port the Holy Spirit
  - ibid.

Get to Lisbon in four months and
  goes to San Lucar, and to Cadiz - 59.

Advises the King in Seville land of the Rio de la Plata, and gives
them letters Irala - 54.

Adjusts its
  voyage to Flanders, shipped clothing, and the pattern
  gets drunk and
  does not lead - 59. Sets with another patron, and
  re-embarks Cadiz to storm - ibid.

Have another very large and arrives defeated the ships, Wight - 60.

Give thanks
  to God coming to Antwerp, for
  having escaped so many risks - 61.

  Cars possession of the government of Cabeza de Vaca, stolen by royal
officials - 26.

  
  Sugar. Abundant
  in the Canary Islands - 4.

Lábranla
  in the port of the Holy Spirit
  of Brazil - 57.
  

B
  

Whale - 5.
  Their abundance between San Vicente and Sancti Spirits, in Brazil
and how to fight and overturn the smaller ships? - 58.

One of 35
  steps
  was taken in
  Cádiz - 3.

  Irala rafts happened to go to the handsome - 49.
  
  Barcones, Indians.

Irala want to escape, and detention provisions, and give news of
the land - 46.

  

Baroti, people - 54.
  
  Bartenes, Indians. Lay siege to Buenos Aires, with others and burned
- 9.

Sweet potatoes roots that taste like apples, in cavities - 16.
In Sococies - 30.

Bered, people. Bastimento it takes the author -
54.

Biesayes, Indians. The author comes to them and provided food
and other things - 56.

Bogemberg, mountain in Germany similar to
that of San Fernando - 19.

Ball, Indians who had a string tied to
a pole, to hunt and shoot down the horses - 8. As the carry and use
- 38.

Drunkenness of Sliding. Last days and nights - 55.

Brazil
stick. Abounds in the Holy Spirit - 58.

Huanacos shields of hides.
Do Spanish, and for what? - 42. In imitation of the Indians who use
Carcokies - 49.  But Jackson rode calmly on.

The curiosity of the Union generals in regard to that marching column increased.  Several of
them appealed to Hooker to let them advance in force and see what it was.  Sickles was allowed
to go out with a strong division, but instead of reaching Jackson he was confronted by a portion
of Lee's force, thrown forward to meet him, and the battle was so fierce that Sickles was compelled
to send for help.  A formidable force came and drove the Southern division before it, but the
vigilant Jackson, informed by his scouts of what was happening behind him, turned his rear
guard to meet the attack, and Sickles was driven off a second time with great loss.  Then Jackson's
men quickly rejoined him and they continued their march, the vanguard, in fact, never having
stopped.

Harry took no part in this, but from a distance he saw much of it. Once more he admired the
surpassing alertness and vigor of Jackson, who never seemed to make a mistake, a man who was
able while on a great march to detach men for the help of his chief, while never ceasing to
pursue his main object.

The Northern forces, although they had fought bravely, retreated, and the great movement that
was going on remained hidden from them. The gap between Lee and Jackson was growing wider,
but they did not know it was there.  Hooker's retreat with his great army into the Wilderness
had given his enemies a chance to befog and bewilder him.

Harry's supreme confidence returned.  All things seemed possible to his chief, and once more
they were marching, unimpeded.  It was now much past noon, and they turned into a new road,
leading north through the thickets.

"It scarcely seems possible that we can pass around a great army in this way," said Dalton;
"but, Harry, I'm beginning to believe the general will do it."

"Of course he will," said Harry.  "It's Old Jack's chief pleasure to do impossible things.
He leaves the possible to ordinary men.  See him. He didn't even stop to look back while our
rear guard returned to help drive off the Yankees."

The sun was near the zenith and the afternoon grew warm.  They had come upon hard, dry paths,
and under the tread of the army great clouds of dust arose, but it did not float high in the
air, the thick boughs of the trees and bushes catching it.  But as it hovered so close to the
ground it made the breathing of the soldiers difficult and painful. It rasped their throats,
and soon they began to burn with the heat. Many fell exhausted beside the paths, but they were
helped by their comrades or were put into the wagons, and the long column of steel never ceased
to wind onward.

Near the middle of the afternoon, when they were about to cross the western extension of the
plank road, a young cavalry officer galloped up and rode straight for Jackson.  It was Fitzhugh
Lee, whose services were great at Chancellorsville.  His glowing face showed that he brought
news of great importance.

As he saluted, General Jackson checked his horse and Harry heard his general ask:

"You bring news.  What is it?"

"I do, sir," responded young Lee eagerly.  "I have something to show you.  A great Northern
force is only a short distance away, and it does not suspect your advance at all.  If you will
come with me to the crest of a little hill here, I can show them to you."

Jackson never hesitated a moment, signing to Harry to follow him, evidently meaning to use
him as a courier, if need arose.  The three then turned and rode through the bushes toward
the hill, and Harry's heart beat so hard that it gave him an actual physical pain when he looked
down on the sight below.  He glanced at Jackson and saw that his face was flushed and his eyes
glowing.

They were gazing upon a great Northern force which was to protect Hooker's right.  Its first
lines were only three or four hundred yards away.  There were breastworks and other lines of
defense running far through the forest, positions that were formidable, but not manned at this
moment by riflemen or cannoneers.  Rifles were stacked neatly behind the intrenchments, extending
in a long line as far as they could see.  Thousands of soldiers were sitting on the grass and
among the bushes, some asleep, some playing games, while others were cooking, reading newspapers
sent from the North, and some were singing.  It was a picture of idleness and ease in a camp,
and not one among them suspected that thirty thousand veterans of the South, led by Stonewall
Jackson himself, were within rifle shot, hidden under the vast canopy of the Wilderness.

Harry drew a deep breath, and then another.  It was extraordinary, unbelievable, but it was
true.  He looked again at Jackson and saw that his eyes were still burning with blue fire.
The general gazed for five minutes, but never said a word.  Then he turned and rode down the
hill, and swiftly the word was passed through the army that they would soon be upon the enemy.

"What is it, Harry?" asked St. Clair eagerly, as Harry rode along the lines with a message
for a general for whom he was looking.

"They're just over there," replied Harry, nodding toward his right.

"And they don't know we're here?"

"They don't dream it."

"And Lee and Jackson have got 'em in the trap again?"

"It looks like it."

Then Harry was gone with his message.  And he bore other messages, and like most of those he
had borne earlier, their burden was secrecy and silence.  He never forgot any detail of that
memorable day.  Years afterwards he could shut his eyes at any time and see the eve of Chancellorsville
in all its vivid colors, thirty thousand Southern troops lying hidden in the thickets, General
Jackson, followed by himself and two other aides, riding upon the hill again and taking one
more look at the unsuspecting enemy below, the spreading out of the cavalry like a curtain
between them and Howard's corps to keep even a single stray Northern picket or scout from seeing
the mortal danger at hand, and then Jackson dismounting and, seated on a stump, writing to
Lee that he was on the enemy's flank and would attack as soon as possible.  Harry was in fear
lest the general should choose him to carry back the dispatch, as he wished to stay with the
corps and see what happened, but the duty was assigned to another man.

Confidence meanwhile reigned in the Union army.  In the morning Hooker had ridden around his
whole line, and cheers received him as he came. Scouts had brought him word that Jackson was
moving, and he had taken note of the encounter with the rearguard of Stonewall's force.  But
as that force continued its march into the deep forest and disappeared from sight, the brave
and sanguine Hooker was confirmed in his opinion that the whole Southern army was retreating.
His belief was so firm that he sent a dispatch to Sedgwick, commanding the detached force near
Fredericksburg, to pursue vigorously, as the enemy was fleeing in an effort to save his train.

While Hooker was writing this dispatch the "fleeing enemy," led by the greatest of Lee's lieutenants,
lay in full force on his flank, almost within rifle-shot, preparing with calmness and in detail
for one of the greatest blows ever dealt in war.  Truly no soldiers ever deserved higher praise
than those of the Army of the Potomac, who, often misled and mismanaged by second-rate men,
grew better and better after every defeat, and never failed to go into battle zealous and full
of courage.

It seemed almost incredible to Harry, who had twice looked down upon them, that the whole Union
right should remain ignorant of Jackson's presence.  Twenty-eight regiments and six batteries
strong, the Northern troops were now getting ready to cook their suppers, and there was much
laughter and talk as they looked around at the forest and wondered when they would be sent
in pursuit of the fleeing enemy.  Six of the regiments were composed of men born in Germany,
or the sons of Germans, drawn from the great cities of the North, little used to the forests
and thickets and having the stiffness of Germans on parade.  They were at the first point of
exposure, and they were certainly no match for the formidable foe who was creeping nearer and
nearer.

Not all the country here was in forest.  There were some fields, a little wooden cottage on
a hill, and in the fields a small house of worship called the Wilderness Church.  It was the
little church of Shiloh and the Dunkard church of Antietam over again. As I read these paragraphs, which were already
family, his mind worked apart impulses of joy. Good friend Paul! And what in time came his
advice! ... He drew from Ibiza in the most opportune moment, when looked at open war with all those
rude people who wanted the death of a stranger. The captain was not mistaken. What was there, as
Robinson, who could not even enjoy the tranquility of solitude? ... Valls, timely as always, fought
the danger.

His life of hours earlier when he had not received the letter, it seemed absurd and ridiculous .. Now
it was another man. Smiling with pity and shame that crazy that the day before, leading the shotgun over
his shoulder, had taken the path of the mountain to look for a former inmate, challenging him to
savage fighting in the lonely forest. As if all life on earth was concentrated on the small
island and had to kill to be in it! ... As if had no life or civilization beyond the blue sheet
surrounding this piece of land, with primitive human group soul, petrified in the customs of
other ages! This was the last night of wild life. The next day, everything that happened it would
not be than an agglomeration of interesting memories, with whose story could entertain your friends
Borne.

Febrer cut suddenly thought, separating the eyes from the paper. Having found her eyes half of the
room in shadow and half in a reddish light that shook objects seemed to come from the Far trip
that drew his imagination. Still alive in the Pirate's Tower, still standing in the midst
of gloom, one populated by lonely Rumors of Nature, within a block of stone walls seemed to
sweat murky mystery.

Something had blown off the tower: a scream, a howl, as distinct from
the other night, more smothered farthest.

Jaime had the feeling that this cry came from very close, that someone threw perhaps hidden
in groups of tamarisk.

He focused his attention, and soon the cry rang again.

It was the same aucamiento of the other night, but deaf, softly, hoarse, as if they were afraid
of throwing the cry from spreading too much, putting his hands around his mouth to send with this
natural horn only to the tower.

After the first surprise, laughed quietly, shrugging his shoulders.
I did not think to move.

What do you care about these customs and primitive peasants these challenges? "Howl, good man;
scream until you get tired, I am deaf. "

And to distract his attention he read the letter, delighting in the taste of the long list of
creditors, many of whose names evoke visions angry or grotesque memories.

The howling continued playing at long intervals, and each time he cut husky shrillness silence, Febrer
shook with impatience and anger. "Christ! Was she going to pass and the night, kept awake
by this serenade threatening ?...»

He thought that perhaps the enemy, hiding in the bushes, he saw the cracks in the door lit
and this made him persist in their provocations. Blew out the candle and lay in bed, experiencing
a sense of comfort at being in the dark, back deep in the crisp softness of the mattress. I could
scream for hours until he lost that great voice. He did not want move. What do you care about
your insults?

... And laughed with a joy of animal welfare, the softness of his bed, while the other hoarse
hidden behind the bushes, gun prepared and watchful eye. What a disappointment for the enemy!
...

Febrer almost fell asleep lulled by the cries of threat. Had placed behind the door the same
roadblock last night.

While the screams had sounded confident that no danger threatened him. Suddenly he sat up,
repelling the drowsiness that precedes sleep. No longer sounding howls. What he had revealed the
mystery of silence was more ominous and disturbing that the shouts of hostility.

Moving his head, thought he saw between the confused sounds of breathing and cast night-a touch,
a slight creak of wood, something like the light weight of a cat climbing from step to step
on the scale of the tower, with long intervals of immobility.

Jaime looked for the gun and waited with him in the right hand. The weapon seemed to tremble
in his fingers. Beginning to feel the wrath of the strong man who reads his door the prowl for
a enemy.

The slow ascent is stopped, maybe in the middle of the scale, and after a long silence, he heard
the solo voice is a voice that sounded just for him.

Ferrer was the voice of: the recognized. Invited him to leave, he was called a coward, joining
this insult other injuries to the hated island where he was born.

With thoughtless impulse, Jaime rose from the bed, sounding loudly under the mattress collapse
of his knees. When standing in the dark, revolver in hand, again be sorry for this movement and
despise his challenger.

Why do case? Should go back to bed ... There was a long pause, as if the enemy, to hear crujimientos
the mattress, it is expected that the inhabitant of the tower was out of a time to another.
But it was some time, and the hoarse voice and offensive was played
again in the quiet night.

I called him coward again, invited to leave the Spaniard. "Go, son of ...

Febrer, to this insult, trembled, keeping the gun in his belt. His mother, his poor mother,
pale, sick, sweet as a saint, rising with the most infamous of insults in the mouth of that
inmate! ...

Instinctively went to the door, stumbling a few steps to the table and chairs piles. No, the
door will not ... A rectangle of light misty blue wall marked in
dark.

Jaime had just opened the window. The outer glow dimly lit contraction of face, a cold sneer,
desperate, cruel, giving him a strong resemblance to the Commander Don Priam and other navigators
of war and destruction, whose portraits are powdered in the palace de Mallorca.

He sat on the sill, throwing his legs out, and slowly began to descend, feeling Foot the cavities
of the wall to prevent loose stones rodasen, denouncing with noise.

At touchdown pulled the revolver from his belt, and crouching, almost
on their knees, one hand on the ground, began to follow the contour
of the base of the tower.

His feet became entangled in the roots of the tamarisk trees that
the wind had laid bare, and sank in sand and tangles of black snakes.

Each time a trip of these made him hesitate, forcing a rude jerk
to move forward, each time a rolling stone or bay, he stopped, holding
his breath.

Trembling, not fear, but anxiety and distress, with Hunter's concerns
that he fears to be late.

Ah, if he fell on the enemy, if he catches near the door, throwing its deadly insults softly!
...

Crawling like a beast, almost on the surface of the soil, came to
see the bottom of its scale, then the upper echelons, and finally
the black door in the middle of the cube tower appearing white under
the glare of the stars.

No! The enemy had fled.

The surprise made him sit up, uneasily eyeing the black and slick
undulating bush extending down the slope.

This test was short. A wriggle red, a fiery wave and brief, followed by a cloud and thunder,
came out of the tamarisk, a short distance him. Jaime believed he received a stone chest, a
hot beach had perhaps skip the noise of the detonation.

"It's nothing," he thought.

But at the same time saw himself on the floor, not knowing how, on his back.

"It's nothing," he thought again.

And turning instinctively turned away, leaving his chest on the ground, supported by one hand
and holding out the other, wielding the gun. He felt strong, repeated inside that it was nothing,
but the body refused to sudden clumsiness to obey his will. It seemed
low to the ground by a painful sympathy.

He saw the bushes shake as if moved by a dark beast, cautious and evil. There was the enemy. First
moved the head, then the bust, finally pulled the legs from Crackler the branches.

Febrer, with quick overview that accompanies drowning and dying in their last moments vision
in which the fugitives are concentrated memories of previous life, he thought of his youth, when he
threw the gun in the garden of Palma lying on the ground and pretending injured, as a test of
deceptive encounters. For the first time was to serve this whimsical caution.

He clearly saw the black bulk of the enemy motionless at the sight of his gun. Le became increasingly
cloudy, more hesitant, as if the night is obscured by time.

Advanced cautiously, also with a gun in hand, undoubtedly for the kill. Then pulled trigger
one, and again and again, believing that the weapon did not work,
without ever hearing their detonations, saying in desperation that
the enemy would fall upon him, deprived of defense.

No I saw him.

A white mist spread before his eyes, ringing in the ears ... But
when feel close to him believed his opponent, the fog broke, he returned
to see the light quiet and blue of the night, and a few steps, also
lying on the ground, a body that is stirring, that arched, scratching
the earth, throwing a harrowing snoring, a hiccup of death.

Jaime could not understand this miracle. Really it was he who had
thrown?

...

Wanted to get up, and his hands, when touching the ground, splashing
in a hot and dense clay.

He touched his chest and found it wet with something warm and dripping in thick rivulets subtle
and relentless. He tried to get the legs to knees, and legs would
not obey him.

Only then was convinced he was injured.

His eyes lost their vision clearing.

Double watched the tower, then triple, then whole blocks of stone curtain that stretched along
the coast sank offshore. Esparcióse a pungent taste in your mouth
and lips.

He thought he was drinking something hot and sticky, but drink it upside down, by a quirk
of the mechanism of his life, coming from the strange liquor your palate from the depths of her womb.
The black lump which turned between snoring a few feet from him every time agrandábase in their
contortions touched the ground.

It was already a apocalyptic beast, a monster of the night came to bow to the stars.

A dog barking and voices of people dissolve the phantasmagoria of solitude. From the shadows
emerged lights.

- Don Chaume! Don Chaume! ...

Who was this female voice? Where had he heard? ...

He saw black shapes that were moving, who bowed, carrying in her hands red stars. He saw a man
who was holding a smaller one, and hand the latter a white flash, maybe a knife, to pre-finish
the monster pataleante.

Saw nothing. Arms felt soft, thin skin and sweet heat, took her head. A voice, the same as
before, shaking and crying, rang in his ears:

- Don Chaume! Oh, don Chaume! ...

He sensed in his mouth a sweet touch, something that was stroking silky smooth, and gradually
was exaggerating his contact into a kiss frantic, desperate, angry pain.

The wounded man, before losing his sight, he smiled weakly to recognize with eyes eyes tearful
love and grief: Margalida eyes.

IV

Finding himself in a piece Febrer Can Mallorquí, lying on a bunk bed - the bed may Margalida
- was realizing what had happened shortly before.

Reached by foot to the farm, supported by Pep and his son, feeling behind a nice touch hands
seemed to tremble. Memories were vague, imprecise, surrounded a halo of white mist, something
like the confused memory of facts and words after a day of drunkenness.

He remembered that his face had looked with mortal laziness support Pep's shoulder, that forces
were abandoning him, as if life is to escape the hot and sticky blast that tickled over his chest
and back.

Also recalled that in his footsteps groans sounded deaf, broken words imploring the aid of
all the heavenly powers. And he, in the midst of his weakness, latent cerebral temples by the buzz
that accompanies the fading, made efforts to concentrate its energies on the legs, moving step
by step, with the fear of being stuck on the road. What an endless fall a Can Mallorquí! Had lasted
for hours, had lasted days: in its report that appeared dark running almost as long as all his previous
life.

When arms friends helped him get on the bed and the candlelight were stripping their clothes,
Febrer experienced a feeling of wellbeing and relaxation.

Do not get up of these blandishments! Stay on them forever! ...

Blood! ... The shocking red blood everywhere: on the jacket and shirt, they fell like rags at the
foot of the bed in the whiteness of the thick rigid sheets; in the bucket of water that was coloring
the Pep wet cloth to wash the breast of the wounded.

Each garment torn from his body scattered around a tiny rain. Undergarments despegábanse of the
flesh with a painful jerk. Candlelight, as flickering flame pulled
out of the shadows an eternal red note.

The wife cried in mourning. Margalida's mother, forgetting all prudence, coupled raised hands
and eyes with an expression of terror. "Holy Queen !...» Febrer to whom bed rest had restored
calm, we missed these exclamations. He felt good, why are so alarmed women? Margalida, silent,
eyes wide with terror, went back and forth, stirring clothes, opening chests, with precipitation
of fear, but not stunned to hear the angry shouts of his father.

Good Pep, frowning, with a greenish pallor in his dark complexion, driving the injured to the
same while giving orders. "Hylas! Many lint! ... Females Silence! Why so many cries and laments
?...» What to do his wife was to go in search of a stew containing Saved wonderful ointment
for prevention from the time of his courageous father, a Verro accustomed to the terrible wounds.

And
when the mother, afflicted with raging orders, wanted to join to
find Margalida The remedy, again claimed her husband's bedside. Should
hold the lord had set aside to examine and clean both the chest and
back. The peaceful Pep boy had seen more great events than that, and
understood something of wounds. Clearing blood stains with a cloth
wet, exposed two holes in the bust Don Jaime, a chest and another
in the back ... Well, the bullet had passed through his body; would
not be removed, and this led advance.

With its rustic hands, which
sought to infuse some feminine delicacy, struggled form a lint plugs,
be translated into those holes torn flesh and bloody, who followed
meekly throwing the red liquid. Margalida, frowning and shifting the
view to avoid meeting the eyes of the wounded, intervened, pushing
Pep. "Stop, Father!"; maybe she would know it better ... And James
thought he saw in the raw, sensitive, vibrant by the cruel scratch,
an impression of freshness, sweet calm it will sink plugs handled
by the fingers of the girl.

Jaime remained motionless, feeling in
the back and chest rags piled by the two women in their horror of
blood.

The optimism that had encouraged him to bend his legs and
fall next to the tower again reappear. Surely it was nothing: a small
wound, he felt better. Le annoyed, as if something unfortunate, sad
and silent gestures of those around him, and smiled to encourage them.
He tried to speak, but the first attempt it was a big word fatigue.

The
peasant stopped him with a gesture. "Quiet, Don Jaime was to remain
still!" The doctor was to arrive. His son was riding the best horse
in the house, to bring to San Jose.

And to see Don Jaime with his
eyes wide open, persisting in his smile bouncy, Pep continued talking
to entertain the wounded.

Was he sleeping with the heaviness of an
unshakable dream when he was awakened by voices and pulls his wife,
the cries of atlots running to the door wanting out. Outside the farmhouse,
on the side of the tower shots rang. Another attack on Mr., as that
two nights before! ... Pepet, to hear the last shots, he seemed happy.
Were Don Jaime knew the roar of his gun.

Pep had lit the lantern
she used to take the field, his wife took the candle, and everyone
ran up the hill to the tower, without thinking of the danger. The
first found Ferrer was, dying, his head dripping blood, howling and
writhing the same as a demon ... And had just grieve. May God welcome
you in his mercy! Pep had to go to blows with his son, mad and evil
like a monkey, which, when see the dying, his belt pulled a large
knife, intending to finish him off. Where would Pepet taken that weapon?
The boys are the devil!  Colonel Talbot was right.  Jackson was still intent upon pressing
the attack.  Night and darkness were now nothing to him.  He meant to achieve Hooker's ruin.

Harry always believed afterward that he felt the shadow of the great tragedy soon to come.
The roar of the cannon had died down, but from every direction came the firing of scattered
riflemen, skirmishers and pickets.  They buzzed like angry bees, and no man on the front of
either army was safe from their sting.  But all through the Wilderness along the line of Jackson's
charge the dead and wounded lay.  Here and there clumps of fallen and dead wood of the winter
before, set on fire by the shells, were burning slowly.  The smoke from so much firing drifted
in vast banks of vapor through the forest.  The air was filled with bitter odors.

Harry felt a sensation of awe and terror, not terror inspired by man, but of the unknown or
uncontrolled forces that drive men to meet one another in such deadly combat.  Now night did
not suffice to stop the titanic struggle.  He saw all around him the regiments ready for a
new attack, and he plainly heard in front of him the thud of axes as the Northern men cut down
trees for their defense.  Now and then stray moonbeams, penetrating the forest and the smoke,
fell over them like discs of burnished silver, but faded quickly.

The firing of the skirmishers increased.  Twigs and leaves cut off by the bullets fell in little
showers to the earth.  Harry, on horseback now, saw an impatient look pass over the general's
face.  The intrepid fighter, A. P. Hill, was coming up fast, but not fast enough for Stonewall
Jackson.  He turned and rode back toward him, careless of the danger from the Northern skirmishers,
who might at any moment see him.

"General," said one of his staff in protest, "don't expose yourself so much." 

Jaime's grandmothers had preserved from generation to generation a large uncut diamond, memory of
the heroic captain for the generous hosting of Febrer. Gemstone contained in documents of the family,
but the grandfather, Horace had not reached to know. Disappeared in the course of the centuries,
as so much wealth wiped out by the plight of a ostentatious home.

Febrer preparing the refreshments for the Navy, on behalf of Mallorca, but largely funded part
by them. This "cool" so that the Emperor appreciating the wealth of fruit the island, composed
of a hundred cows, two hundred sheep, hundreds of pairs of hens and turkeys, the quartet of
oil and flour, paneled wine, Cuarterolo cheese, capers and olives, twenty barrels of water myrtle and
four pounds of white wax. In addition, Febrer resident in the island and were not of the Order
of Malta the squadron embarked on Mallorca two hundred knights, eager to conquer Algiers, a nest
of pirates. The three hundred galleys left the bay, waving streamers between the roar of cannon
and bombards, greeted by crowds agglomerate on the walls. I had never met the Emperor so impressive
fleet.

It was in October. The expert Doria getting bad gesture. For him there were others in the Mediterranean
safe harbors that "June, July, August ... and Mahon. " The Emperor had been delayed too in the Tyrol
and Italy. Pope Paul III, to go to meet him in Luca, had prophesied misfortune for the lateness
of the season. The expedition landed on the beach Hamma. Febrer the commander, with his Knights
of Malta, going to lead, holding incessant clashes with the Turks. The army seized the heights
surrounding Algiers and started the site. Now were fulfilled the predictions of Doria. What
happened was a horrible storm, with all the violence of the African winter. The troops, without
shelter, soaked to bones during the night by torrential rain, they felt numb. A furious wind
men forced to remain lying on the ground. At dawn, the Turks, taking advantage this situation,
fell on the army by surprise, almost disbanded.

But the commander was there Priam, demon of war, insensitive to water and fire hard, malicious
and contemptuous of fatigue, which contained the enemy thrust a handful of his knights. Spanish
and German were rebuilt, and the Turks retreated, pursued by the besiegers, until the very
walls of Algiers. Don Priam Febrer, wounded in the face and leg, crawled to the door of the
city, driving his knife as it evidence of their progress.
  I think my right arm is broken."

Harry remained motionless.  He saw Dalton by his side, and he also saw tears on his face. 
Jackson closed his eyes and uttered no word of complaint, although it was obvious that he was
suffering terribly. General Hill felt his pulse.  He was rapidly growing weaker.  Harry was
so stunned that he would not have known what to do, even had not senior officers been present.
When his pulse began to beat again he remained silent, waiting upon his superiors.

But Harry was now alert and watchful again.  He heard the heavy firing of the skirmishers on
the right, on the left, and in front, and through the darkness he saw the flashes of flame.
The little group around the fallen man was detached from the army and the enemy might come
upon them at any moment.  Even as he looked, two Union skirmishers came through the thicket
and, pausing, their rifles in the hollows of their arms, looked intently at the shadowy figures
before them, trying to discern who and what they were.  It was General Hill who acted promptly.
Turning to Harry and Dalton, he said in a low tone:

"Take charge of those men."

The two young lieutenants, with levelled pistols, instantly sprang forward and seized the soldiers
before they had time to resist.  They were given to orderlies and sent to the rear.  Harry
and Dalton returned to the side of their fallen general.  While all stood there trying to decide
what to do, an aide who had gone down the road reported that a battery of Northern artillery
was unlimbering just before them.

"Then we must take the General away at once," said Hill.

Hill lifted in his arms the great leader who was now almost too weak to speak, although he
opened his eyes once, and, as ever, thoughtful of his troops and the cause for which he fought,
said.

"Tell them it's only a wounded Confederate soldier whom you are carrying."

Then he closed his eyes again and lay heavy and inert in Hill's arms. Hill held him on his
feet, and the young staff officers, now crowding around, supported him.  Thus aided he walked
among the trees until they came to the road.  It was as dark as ever, save for the flash of
the firing which went on continuously to right, to left, and in front, mingled now with the
sinister rumble of cannon.

Harry, helping to support Jackson and overwhelmed with grief, felt as if the end of the world
had come.  The darkness, the flash of the rifles, the mutter of cannon, the blaze of gunpowder,
the fierce shouts that rose now and then in the thickets, the foul odors, made him think that
they had truly reached the infernal regions.

The lieutenant, who saw the battery unlimbering, had not been deceived by his imagination.
Just as they entered the road it fired a terrible volley of grape and shrapnel.  Luckily in
the darkness it fired high, and the little Southern group heard the deadly sleet crashing in
the bushes and boughs over their heads.

The devoted young staff officers instantly laid Jackson down in the road, and, sheltering him
with their own bodies as they lay beside him, remained perfectly still while the awful rain
of steel swept over their heads again.  Whether Jackson was conscious of it Harry never knew.

It was one of the most terrible moments of Harry's life.  He felt the most overwhelming grief,
but every nerve, nevertheless, was sensitive to the last degree.  His first conviction that
Jackson's wounds were mortal was in abeyance for the moment.  He might yet recover and lead
his dauntless legions as of old to victory, and he, like the other young officers who lay around
him, was resolved to save him with his own life if he could.

The deadly rain from the cannon did not cease.  It swept over their heads again and again,
all the more fearful because of the darkness. Harry felt the twigs and leaves, cut from the
bushes, falling on his face.  The whining of the grape and shrapnel and canister united in
one ferocious note.  Some of it struck in the roadway beyond them and fire flew from the stones.

The general revived a little after a while and tried to get up, but one of the young officers
threw his arms around him and, holding him down, said:

"Be still, General!  You must!  It will cost you your life to rise!"

The general made no further attempt to rise, and perhaps he lapsed into a stupor for a little
space.  Harry could not tell how long that dreadful shrieking and whining over their heads
continued.  It was five minutes perhaps, but to him it seemed interminable.  Presently the
missiles gave forth a new note. Night and the cunning, matching the strength of the enemies
would have given encouragement to the sick to march against him. It was also possible two or
more were awaiting him.

Came another yell, but Jaime shrugged again. I could yell whatever
he wanted her unknown challenger ... But alas!

Impossible to read! Futile effort to pretend quiet! ...

Repetíanse howling furiously now, as the crowing of a cock angry. Jaime believed see the man's
neck, swollen, red, with the tendons vibrant with anger. The guttural shout seemed to take
little by little, to repeat, the contours and significance of a language.

It was ironic, mocking, insulting, his prudence taunted the stranger; seemed to call him a
coward.

In vain he tried not to listen. Nublábase his sight, he thought it
was no longer the candle light in intervals of silence, the blood
roared in his ears.

Can Mallorquí was thought very close, and perhaps Margalida, trembling and clinging to a small
window, I heard these cries against the tower, where he was a timid man listening to them too, but
locked as if it were deaf.

No, not more. He threw this time for the book on the table, and then instinctively certainly without
knowing what he did, blew the candle flame. To be in darkness walked few steps with advanced
hands, completely forgotten about the attack plans had conceived
just before its rapid thought.

Anger upset their ideas. Blindness sudden spirit had only one idea, like the last flicker of
light that goes away. Playing and the gun with his hands Palpant when catch withdrew. I needed
a weapon less embarrassing, perhaps would have to descend and crawl through the bushes.

Pulled inside the strip, and the gun slipped out of his hole with the smoothness a beast silky
and warm. Groped to the door and opened it slowly, only a small space, the need to stick their
head, their rude hinges creaking slightly.

Febrer passing from the darkness of his room to the diffuse stellar
brightness of the light, he saw the patch of weeds around the tower,
beyond the confused whiteness of the farmhouse, and across the black
hump of the mountains cutting a sky full of stars palpitations.

This vision lasted only a moment: he could not see. Two small flashes, two wriggle marcáronse
fire one after another in the darkness of the bushes, followed by two explosions almost got confused.

Jaime
felt a sensation in his nose acre of burnt gunpowder, which may not have been more a phenomenon
that imaginative.

At the same time felt on top of his skull a silent and violent shock, something that seemed unusual
touch without actually touching, the feeling of rubbing of a stone. Something fell on his face
like a shower impalpable. Blood? ... S land? ...

His surprise only lasted a moment. He had been fired from the bushes, near of the ladder. The
enemy was there ... There! He saw in the dark the point where they come the flashes, and moving the
right hand outside the door, fired his gun a ... two ... five times, all the capsules containing
the cylinder.

He threw nearly blind, disoriented by the darkness and confusion of anger. A slight Noise cut short
branches, a faint ripple of the bush, filled him wild joy. Undoubtedly had reached the enemy, and
in your satisfaction, put his hand the head to convince him that he was not wounded.

To pass down his face after he fell from his cheeks and eyebrows and often somewhat pimply. There
was blood: it was dirt, dust and mortar. His fingers glide over the scalp, still shaken by the deadly
touch, stumbled with two holes in the wall, similar to small funnels, which kept a warm feeling.
The two bullets had grazed, going to dig on the wall at a distance
from his head almost imperceptibly.

Febrer felt herself happy by his good fortune. The healthy, intact,
and his enemy!

... Where would at that time?

Should he go down to fetch between tamarisk and recognize him in
his agony?

... Suddenly the cry was repeated, the howling wilderness, far, far away, almost in the vicinity
of the farm: a Auque triumphant, mocking, Jaime interpreted as an announcement of next round.

Can
the dog Mallo, excited by the gunfire, barking mournfully. In the distance, other dogs they
answered. The howling man went away, with endless repetitions, each time more distant, weaker,
sinking into the blue mystery of the night.

III

Just broke the day the Chaplain went to the tower.

I had heard everything. His father, who had a strong dream, I was not aware perhaps those hour event.
Since the dog was barking and sound with many shots as the farm in a war Pep good when he
went to bed tired of your tasks by day, was insensitive as death. The rest of the house had passed
a night of anguish.

The mother, then several attempts to wake her husband without success to get another incoherent
words followed by more snoring, had prayed until dawn for the soul of the lord of the tower believing
him dead.

Margalida, who slept near her brother had called him softly and distressing to hear the first
shots. "Do you hear, Pepet ?...»

The poor girl was sitting up in bed, lighting a candle, to light had
atlot seen, his face pale and eyes of crazy.

She, so modest and shy, showed agitation in the greatest secrets of their nakedness, forgetting
everything, twisting arms, her hands to her head. "Don Jaime had been killed: it heralded
the heart." And trembled with the distant echo of new shots. "A true string of shots", he said
the Chaplain, had answered the first two explosions.

- Those were from you, eh, Don Jaime? - Continued the boy -.

The moment I met and I told Margalida. I remember later that you fired the gun at the beach.
I have a good ear for these things.

Then was the despair of his sister, looking for clothes in silence, wanting to dress Running
to the tower. Pepet accompany her. But then, suddenly sheepish, he did not want go. He knew only
mourn, and opposed the boy fulfill his purpose to escape by the wall
of the corral.

They had heard the Auque next to the farmhouse, long after the shooting, and talking about
this cry, the boy smiled with malicious air. Then, Margalida, suddenly reassured by the words
of his brother, was silent, remaining motionless on the bed, but
throughout Chaplain night heard sighs of anguish and a slight murmur,
as if under her veil a softly muttered words and words with relentless
monotony.

Young also had been praying.

Then, to spread the light of dawn, got up all but the father, who
remained in his peaceful sleep.

When he looked out onto the porch women, dominated by the most gloomy thoughts, expected to witness
a horrific picture: the tower destroyed and its ruins hanging over the body of the Lord. But
the Chaplain had laughed when he saw the door open, and next to it, as on other mornings,
Don Jaime, bare-breasted, splashing in a bucket that he brought from
the coast filled with seawater.

No he was wrong to laugh at the terrors of women. "In Don Jaime, who had not kill him. And this he
said, he understood men. "

Then, after the short story that made him the lord of all that had
happened at night, examined squinting with intelligent expression,
both with bullet holes open on the wall.

- And you had your head
here, where do I have?

... Futro! ...

His eyes showed admiration, idolatry devout, with portentous man who had just saved by a miracle.

Febrer
questioned the boy about the alleged offender, trusting in their knowledge of the people the
country, and the Chaplain smiled with an air of someone important.

I had heard the howling. It was the same way he had the sang Aucar: many had imagined it was
him.

The it howled in the serenades, dancing evenings in and out of the processions.

- But is not it, Don Jaime: I'm sure. She sang If asked, say yes to be important. But it was
the other, Ferrer, I knew the voice, and Margalida believe the same.

Then, with serious gesture, he spoke of the foolish fear of women,
who argued the need to notify the Civil Guard of San Jose.

- You
will not do that.

Right, Don Jaime, which is nonsense? Civilians only serve to cowards.

The sneer and shrug with which he returned to answer Febrer boy they look happy.

- That's what I figured I: it is not used on the island.

But since you are a stranger!

... Do you well, every man must defend himself, for that is man, and if in a hurry, looking for
friends.

And with that pavoneábase, outlining in his person all the powerful aid that could Jaime count
in times of danger.

The Chaplain wanted to take advantage of this event, advising Mr. convenience take to live in the
tower.

If he were to ask the fate Pep, he could not deny that favor. Don Jaime suited him to have
him at his side would always be two for defense. And support the urgency of the request, but
remember the anger of Pep, and the certainty that it would take him to Ibiza in early next
week to shut him up in the seminar.

What would the Lord when deprived of the most faithful saw their friends? ...

Wanting to demonstrate the usefulness of their presence, the forgetfulness
of Febrer censored at night above.

Who could occur to stick his head out the door when you were aucando with the gun drawn? By a miracle
he had not been killed. And the lesson he gave?

Can not remember your advice to lower the window, behind the tower, to surprise enemy? ...

-
It's true - Jaime said, really ashamed of his forgetfulness.

The Chaplain, who tasted success proud of this advice, gave a start
to look by the doorway.

- The stop!

...

Pep up the hill slowly, arms back and look pensive.

The boy was alarmed to see him. Undoubtedly came from the recent news moody: not convenient meet
him. And repeating again Febrer convenience that kept him as partner, took the legs out the window,
put his belly on the windowsill, and slipped by the wall.

The peasant, upon entering the tower, spoke without emotion of the event last night like a normal
fact that only slightly alter the monotony of camp life. The women had told him ... he had a
dream very heavy ... "So that was not nothing?

...

He listened with downcast eyes and thumbs together the brief account
of the Lord.

Then he went to door to see the traces of the projectiles.

- A miracle, Don Jaime, a true miracle.

He returned to his chair, long time standing still as if it cost him
a great inner effort operating their slow thoughts.

- The devil is
at liberty, sir ... Unsurprisingly, because I say so ... When you
want impossible things, everything gets tangled and just peace.

Then, raising his head, fixed his eyes cold and piercing on Don Jaime. Should be notified the mayor,
should say all this to the Civil Guard.

Febrer shook his head. No, it was a matter for men, which was airing himself.

Pep was staring at the man, in a puzzling, as if in thought struggles found ideas.

- You do well - said after a while the phlegmatic peasant.

Outsiders thought differently, but he was glad that Mr. say the same
thing saying his poor father (holy glory that is).

On the island everyone thought the same: the old was right.

Then, Pep, without consulting the Lord, set out its purpose of assisting
in his defense.

It was a duty friendship. He had his gun in the house. I had not used it, but in his youth, when
he lived his famous father (holy glory that is), had been a regular shooter. Would to spend
nights in the tower, next to Don Jaime, that he did not live alone, exposed a surprise during sleep.

Nor
was surprised the farmer from the steadfast refusal of the Lord,
somewhat offended by the proposition.

He was a man, not a child in need of company. Everyone in your house, and could come As luck
would.

Pep also agreed with nods to those words.

The same thing his father said, and like him all the good people who followed the old ways.
Febrer a child seemed true of the island ... Then, softened by the admiration he felt for Don
energy Jaime, proposed another arrangement.

Since the man did not want company in its tower, could lower Can sleeping in Mallorquí. The improvise
a bed anywhere.

Febrer felt himself tempted by the proposition.

See Margalida! ... But the tone of looseness with invited the father and the restless gesture that
awaited her answer did give up. No, thank you very much, Pep remained in the tower. Could believe
that changing housing impulses fear.

The peasant shook his head again with signs of assent. Understand this attitude, the same he
would do in your situation.

But this was no obstacle to Pep slept less at night, and if he heard
shouts and shots near the tower come out to the field with his old
shotgun.

And as if that requirement was imposed to sleep anxiously, ready to expose the skin defense of
his former master, broke the calm that had remained until then, the peasant raised his eyes and
clasped his hands:

- Oh, Sinor! Sinor! ...

The devil was abroad, returning to repeat: there was no peace. All for not believing to him for
going against the tide of ancient practices, which set people wiser
that now ... What would stop this?

Febrer tried to pacify the peasant, and let out a thought I wanted to keep hidden. Pep could calm
down. He was leaving for good, not wanting to disturb their peace and their family.

Ah! Was it really was going, sir? ... The joy of the farmer was so big and so alive his surprise
that Jaime was undecided. He seemed to see in the rustic little eyes, animated for the joy of the
unexpected news, some malice. If you believe that his sudden islander trip was to escape from enemies?
...

- Me voy - Pep said, looking at with hostility - but do not know when. Later ... when I fit.
Before I have to live here, I find that I seek.

Pep was a gesture of resignation: his joy vanished, but also came close to nodding these words,
adding that the same would have made his father and so he thought.

When the peasant got up to leave, Febrer, who was standing at the door, distinguished farmhouse
near the Chaplain, and this brought to mind the desire of the boy. If Pep not bothered by his
request, could leave the atlot to accompany him in the tower.

But the father welcomed his request harshly.

No, Don Jaime. If needed company, there was he was a man. The boy studied. The devil was loose,
and time was already impose his authority and that the family did not follow disarray. In the
next week meant to take the seminar. It was his last word.

Febrer, when he was alone, went down to the sea. Guster Uncle repaired with tar and oakum the
joints of his boat, fantastic dry. Lying there like a huge coffin, looking with their weak eyes
the interstices, and to find one who lacks buoyancy, joy made him
burst loudly sung in Latin word made.

Noting that the boat was moving and leaning on the railing to see the gentleman, the old man
had a smile malicious, and disrupted their chants.

- Hi, Don Chaume!

...

He knew everything. Can women Mallo had told the story, and those hours circulated through the
paddock, but from ear to ear, the way to talk about these things, but people become aware of
justice, which only serve to entangle it. "So you had searched the night before, aucándolo to
come out of the tower? ... Ji, ji! He also ... he, too, at other times, when he made love
to her dead between two trips, he had aucado a comrade who was his
opponent.

But he took the girl for having a hand smarter; total, a knife to his friend in the chest, which
had plenty of time between life and death. Then he lived on guard always coming down to earth to
rid revenge of their enemy, but the years pass, all is forgotten, and the two friends ended for
smuggling together, sailing from Algiers to Ibiza and the coasts of Spain.

Guster uncle laughed with childish laughter, pleased with these memories resurface youth in his memory
if he heard of shots, stab wounds and provocations in the night.

Ay! He no longer aucarían! This was for young people. And his accent was sad to not be mixed sets
of love and war, which he considered essential for a happy existence.

Febrer left him singing the Mass as he finished fairing. In the tower found Shopping of their
food on the table. The Chaplain had left without waiting, without doubt obeying some urgent call
from his father angrily. After lunch back to watch Jaime the two shells had holes in the wall.
After the excitement of danger, and coolly assess the severity of it, felt a vengeful rage, more intense
than he had driven to the door last night.

Few millimeters below the target, and have shot in the dark, at the foot of the door like a hunted
animal. Christ! Y and could die a man of his class, a victim of betrayal
and stalking one of those rustic!

...

His anger took a vengeful impulse. Felt the need to provoke, to be arrogant, appear calm and threatening
to the men, including his enemies were hiding.

He picked up the gun, examined their loads, threw it over his shoulder and fell from the tower,
taking the same way the previous evening. Passing Can Mallorquí, the barking dog output to
the door and her mother Margalida. The men were in a distant field
Pep cultivated.

The mother, whimpering and words cut through the emotion, I could only take hands of the Lord.

-
Don Chaume! Chaume Don! ...

Should be very careful, leaving little of the tower, be on guard against
enemies.

Y Margalida, silent, with eyes wide open, looked at Febrer, revealing admiration and anxiety.
Do not know what to say, his soul seemed simple humbly collected, no finding words to express their
thoughts.

Jaime continued his journey. Turning Margalida repeatedly saw, standing on the porch, following
along with visible anxiety. Mr. went hunting as usual, but alas! took the mountain path, went
towards the pine forest, one of whose bald was the smithy.
Along the way she pondered Febrer attack plans. He resolved to take
immediate action. Verres just come out the door of his house, shoot
the two gun shots. He vented his business to sunlight, and be more
lucky: her two bullets would not to dig into the wall.

But to get
to the forge was shut. No! The blacksmith had gone, the old black
dress was not there to receive angry with hostile glare his eye.

He
sat down under a tree as before, with his gun ready, sheltering behind
the trunk, if this loneliness hid a snare. It was a long time, the
pigeons Wild, inflamed by the quiet and solitude of the forge, fluttered
in the square without looking at the hunter, stationary and forgotten
about them. A cat moved slowly through the dilapidated roof with tiger
stretches, trying to catch the restless sparrows.

More time passed.
The waiting and immobility Febrer calmed. What was there, away from
house in the middle of the mountain, and near dusk, waiting for an
enemy whose guilt only had vague hints? The blacksmith was perhaps
at home. She would see him locked up arrive, and it was useless to
expect. It could also be that he had gone away with the old and not
return until late at night. Had to leave.

And with the gun in hand,
to be the first to shoot if the enemy was, undertook return to the
valley.

Again, again found in the way peasants and girls looked at
him curiously tenacious, just replying to his greeting. Saw again
sang with his head bandaged, in the same site, surrounded by friends,
who spoke with violent gesticulations. Recognizing the lord of the
tower, before their comrades could hold him, stooped down, and grabbing
two grooves in the hardened stone and flung him against it. The rustic
missiles, driven a weak arm, failed to make half of its path. Then,
angered by derogatory Febrer serenity, still later, the atlot, broke
into threats. It would kill the Spaniard! declared it to screaming.
We all knew that he swore the destruction of this man!

Jaime smiled
sadly to these threats. No, the rabid lamb was not what had been Pirate
the tower to kill him. His outrageous ranting enough to prove it.

Mr
passed quietly the first part of the night. After dinner, when it
was Margalida brother with the sad knowledge that his father not about
to take the Seminar James closed the door, putting behind her the
table and chairs. Feared being caught for sleep. He turned off the
light and smoke in the dark, indulging in the beating of the small
blight cigar, which widened with a hickey. He had his gun nearby and
the revolver belt, ready to use them at the slightest movement of
the door. Accustomed to her ear the sounds of the night and breathing
the sea, looking through them at a touch, a indication that solitude
had other human beings apart from it.

He spent a long time. In light
of the cigar looked at his watch. Ten. Sounded far Bark and Jaime
thought she recognized the dog Mallorquí Can. Maybe someone over betrayed
approaching the tower. It was about the enemy: it was possible to
creep cautiously out of the path, between the branches of the tamarisk.

He
joined, requiring gun, looking for the gun in his belt. As soon as
you hear a cry of defiance or a tremor in the door window was put
down, and turning the tower picked up the enemy from behind.

He spent
more time ... Nothing! Febrer wanted to watch the clock, but his hands
would not obey his will. No longer shone in the dark red tip of the
cigar. His head had ended up falling on the pillow, her eyes closed,
he heard cries of challenge, shooting, cursing, but this was an abnormal
state, as if I lived in another world, where the insults and attacks
not wake up sensitivity.  He had received from him so many marks of approval, and, riding as a
trusted member of Jackson's staff, his head had been in such a rosy cloud of glory and victory,
that now it seemed for a while as if the world had come to an end.

He was disappointed, too, that they had reaped so little from Chancellorsville.  He believed
at times that his general had died in vain.  He had but to ride a little distance and see the
enemy across the Rappahannock, where he had been so many months, with the same bristling guns
and the same superior forces.

He had been eager, like all the other young officers, to move directly after the battle and
attack the foe on his own ground, but when he talked with the two colonels he realized that
their numbers were too small.  They must wait for Longstreet's great division, which had been
detached from the battle to guard against a possible flank attack upon Richmond.  Oh, if Longstreet
and his twenty thousand veterans had been at Chancellorsville!  And if Jackson had not fallen
just at the moment when he was about to complete the destruction of Hooker's right wing! He
believed that then they would have annihilated the Army of the Potomac, that only a few fugitives
from it would have escaped across the Potomac.  The time came to him in after years when he
often asked himself would such a result have been a good result for the American people.

But now he was only a boy, as old, it is true, as many boys who led companies, or even regiments,
and the days were sufficient for his thoughts.  He was not thinking of the distant years and
what they might bring.  Both he and Dalton felt joy when General Lee sent for them and told
them that, having been valued members of General Jackson's staff, they were now to become members
of his own.  All he asked of them was to serve him as well as they had served General Jackson.

Harry was moved so deeply that he could scarcely thank him.  He felt springing up in his breast
the same affection and hero-worship for Lee that he had felt for Jackson.  And as the close
association with Lee continued, this feeling grew both in his heart and in that of Dalton.

The soul of youth cannot be kept down, and Harry's spirits returned as he rode back and forth
on Lee's errands.  Moreover, spring was in full tide and his blood rose with it.  The Wilderness,
in which the dead men lay, and all the surrounding country were turning a deep green, and the
waters of the Rappahannock often flashed in gold or silver as the sun blazed or grew dim. 
Pleasant relations between the sentries on the two sides of the river were renewed.  Tobacco,
newspapers, and other harmless articles were passed back and forth, when the officers conveniently
turned their backs.  Nor was it always that the younger officers turned away.

Harry was in a boat near the right bank when he saw another boat about thirty yards from the
left shore.  It contained a half dozen men, and he recognized one of the figures at once. 
Putting his hands, trumpet-shaped, to his mouth, he shouted:

"Mr. Shepard!  Oh, I say, Mr. Shepard!"

The man looked up, and, evidently recognizing Harry, he had the boat rowed a little nearer.
Harry had his own moved forward a little, and he stopped at a point where they could talk conveniently.

"You may not believe me," said Shepard, "but I felt pleasure when I heard your voice and recognized
your face.  I am glad to know that you did not fall in the great battle."

"I do believe you, and I am not merely exchanging compliments when I say that I rejoice that
you, too, came out of it alive."

"Nevertheless, luck was against us then," said Shepard, and Harry, even at the distance, saw
a shadow cross his face. 

CHAPTER XIX.

Paraguay River and the people Curumias and CAAC.

We continued our sailing eight days, and gave in a river, and then in the town of Curumias, which
is many Indians who are kept for hunting and fishing, and make wine from locust, [15] (Which
the Germans call joannesbrot). These people tried to serve us all, and gave us as needed with
pleasure, in three days we were there. Men and women of great stature: some brought into the
nose a agugerillo, in which put a pen gallantry parrot, and the other
is painted blue face with roots that are never removed, and bring
cotton cloth from the waist to the knees. Mepenes distance of 40 leagues.

We have lost two great battles here, but you make no progress.  We menace you as much as ever."

"But your newspapers say you're growing very tired.  There's no nation so big that it can't
be exhausted."

"But you'll be exhausted first.  So long, I see some of our generals coming out on the bluffs
with their glasses.  I suppose we mustn't appear too friendly."

"Good-bye, Mr. Shepard.  We've lost Jackson, but we've many a good man yet.  I think our next
great battle will be farther north."

They had not spoken as enemies, but as friends who held different views upon an important point,
and now they rowed back peacefully, each to his own shore.

With the return of Longstreet, the Southern army was raised to greater numbers than at Chancellorsville.
With Stuart's matchless cavalry it numbered nearly eighty thousand men, most of them veterans,
and a cry for invasion came from the South.  What was the use of victories like Fredericksburg
and Chancellorsville, if they merely left matters where they were?  The fighting hitherto had
been done on Southern soil. The South alone had felt the presence of war.  It was now time
for the North to have a taste of it.

Harry and his comrades heard this cry, and it seemed to them to be full of truth.  They ought
to strike straight at the heart of the enemy. When their victorious brigades threatened Philadelphia
and New York, the two great commercial centers of the North, then the Northern people would
not take defeat so easily.  It would be a different matter altogether when a foe appeared at
their own doors.

Rumors that the invasion would be undertaken soon spread thick and fast. Harry saw his general,
Lee now in place of Jackson, in daily conference with his most trusted lieutenants.  Longstreet
and A. P. Hill were there often, and one day Harry saw riding toward headquarters a man who
had only one leg and who was strapped to his saddle.  But a strong Roman nose and a sharp,
penetrating eye showed that he was a man of force and decision.  Once, when he lifted his hat
to return a salute, he showed a head almost wholly bald.

Harry looked at him for a moment or two unknowing, and then crying "General Ewell!" ran forward
to greet him.

Harry was right.  It was what was left of him who had been Jackson's chief lieutenant in the
Valley campaigns and who had fallen wounded so terribly at the Second Manassas.  After nine
months of suffering, here he was again, as resolute and indomitable as ever, able to ride only
when he was strapped in his saddle, but riding as much as any other general, nevertheless.

And Ewell, who might well have retired, was one of those who had most to lose by war.  He had
a great estate in the heart of a rich country near Virginia's ancient capital, Williamsburg.
There he had lived in a large house, surrounded by a vast park, all his own.  Even as the man,
maimed in body but as dauntless of mind as ever, rode back to Lee, his estate was in the hands
of Union troops.  He had all to lose, but did not hesitate.

Harry saluted him and spoke to him gladly.  Ewell turned his piercing eyes upon him, hesitated
a moment, and then said:

"It's Kenton, young Harry Kenton of Jackson's staff.  I remember you in the Valley now.  We've
lost the great Jackson, but we'll beat the Yankees yet."

Then he let loose a volley of oaths, much after the fashion of the country gentleman of that
time, both in America and England.  But Harry only smiled.

"I'm to have command of Jackson's old corps, the second," said Ewell, "and if you're not placed
I'll be glad to have you on my staff."

"I thank you very much, General," said Harry with great sincerity, "but General Lee has taken
me over, because I was with Jackson."

"Then you'll have all the fighting you want," said the indomitable Ewell.  "General Lee never
hesitates to strike.  But don't be the fool that I was and get your leg shot off.  If anything
has to go, let it be an arm.  Look at me.  I could ride with any man in all Virginia, a state
of horsemen, and now a couple of men have to come and fasten me in the saddle with straps.
But never mind."

He rode cheerily on, and Harry, turning back, met St. Clair and Langdon. Both showed a pleased
excitement.

"What is it?" asked Harry.

"Colonel Talbot and Lieutenant-Colonel St. Hilaire are at it again, and there have been results!"

"What has happened?"

"Colonel Talbot has lost a bishop and Lieutenant-Colonel St. Hilaire has lost a knight.  Each
claims that he has gained a technical advantage in position, and they've stopped playing to
argue about it.  From the way they act you'd think they were Yankee generals.  See 'em over
there under the boughs of that tree, sitting on camp stools, with the chessmen on another camp
stool between them."

Harry looked over a little ridge and saw the two colonels, who were talking with great earnestness,
each obviously full of a desire to convince the other.

"My dear Hector," said Colonel Talbot, "each of us has taken a piece. It is not so much a question
of the relative value of these pieces as it is of the position into which you force your opponent."

"Exactly so, Leonidas.  I agree with you on that point, and for that reason I aver that I have
made a tactical gain."

"Hector, you are ordinarily a man of great intelligence, but in this case you seem to have
lost some part of your mental powers."

"One of us has suffered such a loss, and while I am too polite to name him, I am sure that
I am not the man." Finally,
the eleven days of travel is high on the left bank, and throwing foot earth to walk three miles
through the woods more beautiful in the world, following the course a narrow path leading to
the small town of Ascension Isiboro belonging the country of the Yuracares.

Yuracares Road to Moxos, by the river Securi.

When in the year 1832 I decided to open a new way of communication between the country of Yuracares and
Moxos province, began my journey by following ITINERARY. First lower Moleto the river, where
I embarked in a canoe which I had had built for this purpose. The waters of this river were
very low, and stumbled at every step in addition to the rapids it is full, for which reason
we use three days to arrive at the confluence of the rivers Icho far only three leagues. Tucked
almost always in the water to drag the canoe and entirely bare during the day we were tormented
by venomous bites the gnats who were displaced by swarms of mosquitoes at night bitterest
yet. My journey companions complained with good reason, and only the example of my resignation
and my constant cooperation could work to give the mind to forward. In this interval, the river
receives Moleto the eastern waters the Ipuchi, and by those of western rivers and Eñesama
Solotosama [1], which run between low hills, most prominent towards the west. These hills are but
the latest slopes of the Cordillera.

At the confluence of two rivers that form the river Securi, water depth and widen is greater, however,
to navigate in large boats, they need to be they of shallow. We find here some Indians engaged
in fishing, which were determined to watch: soon advising us to stop, they showed us behind some
brambles the left bank of a path that we could not discover from the stream. Encaminándonos
by him, are in the middle of a forest, a quarter of a mile away, a few houses that had a high
floor, building for the place itself seemed very wet. Hoping to get some bananas and cassava
roots, the only provisions that found in uncivilized places, I moved since then into one of
those houses recently abandoned by their inhabitants, who had transferred ten miles to the
west, fleeing a disease that according to them existed in the hamlet. The next day, at little more than
the eleven, seeing that even the commissioners did not return had gone in search of food, I
decided return to the river to embark and continue my journey, but soon my three Indians to reach
after me with some supplies. Immediately we started leaving the country of vogando the Yuracarés
and resolutely towards unknown regions.

In the space of a league we had to save some shoals, and after leaving
trim back a tree island, we found the river and completely open and
unencumbered.

Then I came to know it would be very easy navigation of this current, even for steam vessels.
This point, which are the most fertile land that could be found, I found very helpful for the establishment
of a port to open on arrival commercial communications with the province of Moxos. The river
abounds in fish: increasingly casting our hooks, without losing time in pairs took out huge fish,
among which were distinguished mainly belonging to the family of siluroides, and also the many
pacus, fish of the most exquisite of America [1]. Day Next, after having avoided some piles of
logs blocking the road in some spot, the river was widened gradually, and its depth became greater:
gnats disappeared, the palms vines were more rare, until they were replaced by palms palm fronds.
Each bank of sand covered saw skimmers, gulls and Caprimulgus, which nest on the beaches,
simply by depositing their eggs on the sand.

Slowly the days succeeded each by frequent stops to my rowers, the that in spite of the influence
that I had come to take upon them, often jumping to the ground, not wanting to obey, to chase
through the woods, and flocks of turkeys the mountain, and the boar,
and a troop of large Marimon, who understand the damage Agen our meeting
seemed to go merrily jumping over the trees, until a EXPERIENCE late
and painful taught to distrust the man.

Meanwhile, the banks were constantly encouraged by all sorts of wild animals, that came out of the
woods to frolic on the beach or on the trees of the hillsides. Very Often a large beast, suddenly
surprised with our arrival, he would abruptly in flight, sometimes a capybara, sliding with alacrity
to the gorge, was hiding in the water further, a deer asleep, waking
up early, ran about among the forest from time to time turning his
head to examine it again.

Occasionally also heard at the distance the roar of the tiger.

After several days of walking through the deep stream, but not very fast Securi river, we reached
the confluence of the rivers that Yuracares Yaniyuta call, which came down from the this, is
to give more expansion to Securi. The abundance of food that had reigned until Then, thanks
to the good fishing and hunting, was leaving us little by little, as the forest was becoming
more deserted, and on the other hand, the powder that I had altered
without moisture doubt, had as useless, for so soon after the lack
of game we reduced the salt fish without any food, and later to a
few ears of corn that Yuracares provided us, and to the palms that
could shoot down my Indians.

Along the way, and the monotony of the voyage were beginning to get discouraged when August
8, at about eleven o'clock, we finally arrived at the confluence of a river low in the west, and
is much more significant that the Securi. The Yuracaré give the name of Isiboro, and according
to the saying of those who accompanied me, this mighty stream, consisting of Isiboro rivers,
Chipiriri Samucebeté and receives all the waters of the eastern slope of Iterama chain or the
Paracti, between the river San-Mateo, and the river Yaniyuta, ahead
of which we had spent three days earlier.

Seeing as that the river and tomba Securi an expansion equal to that which I had noticed at
the point of its junction with the Mamore, recovered mood, hoping to arrive soon to meet this
river.

The next day quietly slid our canoe manned by between forest islands, when presented derrepente,
perched on a tree bank, the most beautiful, the most corpulent the most noble of all birds of
prey, a real harpy [1], which raised its beautiful crest, watching closely without seeming anxious
of our presence. Unable to use of my gun for lack of good powder, left to the skill of my Yuracares,
who jumped immediately to the ground, capturing the glory of that
proud animal.

One of them assertion certainly a crush: in spite of this blow, fell at the bird fly, but pregnant
with the arrow had stuck, (which was about two yards long) soon fell into the forest where the follow
my hunter. I rejoiced because the idea of ​​being able to carry to France this rare prey, when I
return to my Indians bringing the bird with the tail and wings entirely plucked, and the body
almost bare. The estimated Yuracares much the feathers of this bird, and to pawn his arrows,
and to adorn the gala days [2]; so that no time had taken possession of them, leaving my hopes
mocked. After having fought harshly for this behavior, I ordered the animal Trageser, we thought
dead, and seated in the canoe put it before me. Stunned only he had received blows to the head,
he came to himself, little by little without being apercibiésemos this, and when I least expected
it, he threw himself on me, making me one stroke eight wounds with their huge claws, one of
which, more than three inches long, I went through the arm from side to side, between the
cubitus and radius, rending one tendon. A screaming that I gave, my colleagues went voyage, and succeeded
with great difficulty to take off off the furious animal. Bathed in blood and no medicines
to cure my wounds, my state it was still dangerous. Meanwhile, heat continuously esponse of
the day or at the harmful dampness of the night, the fever took hold of me soon. On the other
hand fear that attacked me a fright, and doubt whether it would be damaged due to adhesion the
skin to the tendon, greatly increased my sufferings. Thanks to the Providence only positive
that I was wrong all this, was the inability to turn my arm for some time.

On the evening of that day we reached the confluence of the river Sinuta, last western tributary the
Securi. Leaving this point, we still have two more days, and my concerns and played at its
height, when finally presented Mamore river, unfolding before our eyes all his greatness.
Immediately I gave to forget my sufferings, for I was in Moxos, white of my labors, and the next
day, after having rowed all night vogando downstream, landed in Trinidad, capital of the province.

Having
made the plane on this route, was clearly, as I expected, the new transit practiced by me
was much shorter, and not as dangerous as the Avocado-Cave.

Moxos Road to Santa Cruz de la Sierra on the Rio Grande and the Rio Piray.

To aim of Loreto, last inhabited point Moxos province, towards Santa-Cruz de la Sierra, you need
to do first, like to go to Cochabamba, a transit three days until the confluence of the rivers
Sara and Mamore. It follows then by the first these rivers, which is none other than the Rio
Grande which numbres change momentarily at the confluence Piray River
to the point of their reunion with the Mamore.

Its waters are a contrast rogizas with the crystal of the latter: at rest, the banks of the
river will be present, although lowlands with less, quite the same
light; for they are covered as so that the Mamore Forest varied by
the diversity of trees that are composed and among which the palms
palm fronds.

Only in the dry season are found to high steep banks of this stream,
meanwhile, the line reached the level to which flood is always marked
on the trunks of the trees near, like unto a rod height from his foot.

At the end of the fifth day, shows the confluence of the creek, called Maraven, which down
the left from the flood plain. On the morning of the sixth day passed the confluence of the river
Ibaba sources are found in beef, in Pampa Grande and Vilches, points to the mountains of the province
of Valle Grande. This current consists of Yapacani Surutú rivers and takes the name of Ibaba
when winding down to the plain, being navigable to the foot of the mountains. After a day of
sailing on the river Sara you get to the confluence of the river Piray. In time the Jesuits were
raised by the river Sara or Rio Grande to the hamlet of payload, located east of Santa Cruz, but
this path, forcing the travelers to give a considerable return, while being not a little dangerous increasing
time because of the floods that completely hide the riverbed of the river, has been abandoned,
will make about fifty years to go but well for the Piray which, but
much more narrow than the Rio Grande, is less prone to devastating
floods; reason I prefer it even in spite of the leaps that often take
time to dry.

It is likely that when the flimsy canoes are replaced by steamships, will become to take the
Rio Grande, leaving the Piray, less convient for navigation of large vessels.

In the seventh and eighth days of the journey is the Piray up with a lot of work if the station
is dry, the riverbed of the river, deep enough, of course, is at intervals obstructed by trees
that crowd flows, or by standing at the bottom piers the river, against the often encountered
canoes causing not a few disasters. On the space that is covered in these two days are also
some bridges built by the savages Sirionos [1], who dwell in the surrounding forests, without
ever disturb Moxos natives. To arrive at the eleventh day must be saved on many rapids, formed
by a kind of breaks amarilleja hardened clay, this requires considerable time to lose the need
is to download the canoes so them up in the middle of the stream, pulling them with ropes. Executing
this maneuver, some of the Indians with precision to walk between the water, are often severely
hurt by the sharp sting of armed stripes [2]. These fish are in the queue, parsnips and the
sea coasts of France, a lancet than four inches, very sharp, crooked teeth and trimmed for that
tear in with the meat, causing excruciating pain and often attacks of tetanus: unfortunately
these accidents are common, especially in the headwaters of the rivers.

Increasing time, five or six yards water cover these salient points, and is then passed over them
without being I could see.

In the twelfth day, the forests on the banks of Piray stop suddenly, and are replaced for a
swamp to where two creeks come to be lost, the palace and the pompano, born on the plains of Santa
Cruz de la Sierra. These swamps or marshes to announce that not far from the end of the journey.

The
fourteenth day are passed followed, one after another, four rapids, not far from where port is
presented on the left bank, and has no more room to a spacious roofed hut of palm leaves from
this port, separate from the hamlet of Four-Eyes by a deep swamp that is a mile long, you have
to walk yet thirty leagues to get to Santa Cruz de la Sierra. In the rainy season are used only
ten days to make this road, up the Piray, and six days, moving downstream from Four-Eyes to Loreto.

POPULATION.

If
we compare what I said in the first period of history before the arrival Moxos of the Spanish,
trying to find out what they have come to stop those primitive nations districts, shall find
the following results.

The nation of Moxos still occupies the places you lived before, with the only difference meeting
to meet the missions of the province as follows.

Muchojeones del Carmen. 230

Moxos Baures del Carmen. 362 "Concepcion Moxos. 3.126 "San-Joaquin Moxos. 690 "Still savages.
1.000 ------ 5,178

Moxos Moxos of Loreto. 2,145 "Trinidad. 2.604 "San Xavier. 1.515 "San Ignacio. 1.948 ------
8,212 ------ Total. 13,620

It looks as if this exposition that almost all of the Moxos is subject to Christianity, there are still
some in the savage state: these (of which a small number belonged to the missions of the Jesuits
time) live set divided into families Guaporé river not far, and east
of the missions and Carmen Concepcion, without communicating their
compatriots never converted.

It is also the relative number of different Moxos tribes, and Muchojeones
Baures, and can calculate the importance that should be, within a
country flooded, a nation whose people still spend thirteen thousand,
speaking all Moxo dialect.

Accustomed to obedience, Moxos have a kind nature, sociable, cheerful,
and but that all patients, but the way they are always ready to laugh
at the smallest trifle when they are delivered to themselves, just
as slavery has made them shy and silent in the presence of superiors.

These natives have a particular fondness for drawing, which continues
to be accompanied with enough skill: his paintings of animals and
plants regularly copied.

Sculptors turners, carpenters, weavers workshops,
  produced countless curios that have to
  sell in some cities of Peru. Many of them
  have learned Spanish and can write very
                                   well:
                                              in a word, the nation of the Moxos is perhaps the most susceptible
of civilization.

Among all the Indians of the province, the
  Moxos are currently Catholics not only
  more determined, but that lead to fanaticism
  so that all years, during Holy Week, they
                                   were seen
                                              watering
                                             public
spaces that draw blood to force lashes.

They are also superstitious in the extreme.

The nation of Itonama is totally subdued, and there is not a savage. In 1830, included:

In Magdalena. 2.831 In San-Ramon. 1,984

Total. 4,815

These Indians, whose character I have already spoken more than once in the previous chapters,
preserved inclinations and customs still primitive, that the Catholic religion could not uproot.
The tissues they make are the best in the province. The language is always Itonama used in
both missions.

The nation of Canichana entirely Christian, today is the mission of St. Peter. The number of its population
in 1830 amounted to 1939 individuals [1].

These natives have survived until today, in the very heart of the missions, many of its former
customs, and are still the terror of other nations, whose devastated fields stealing bear fruit, but
those to dare to venture a single complaint for fear estramado they have. The Canichana are rude,
and never use a courtesy to strangers. Today its population is less industrious in the province,
and one that feeds on the flesh caiman, for whose capture is worth
a thousand tricks.

Profess Catholicism, they could not dispose of countless superstitions
salvage their condition: they are otherwise very bad Christians.

       The language of that use is the same as their original state.

We moved the nation of has been assembled by the Jesuits in the mission of Santa Ana: it is not
one salvage it.

According to the census of year 1830, its population was two hundred thousand thirty-eight individuals.
These Indians are egercitan in hunting, fishing, navigation and agriculture.

Industry, little more or less equal to that of the Moxos, has not yet reached same degree of advancement,
only exception to the tissues.

No trace remains today because of their primitive religion, however, often report occasionally they have
not forgotten all the superstitions that were infused before of his conversion. National language
has not changed.

The nation of Cayuvava, fully converted to Christianity, is meeting this Exaltation in the mission.
In 1830 the total population reached two thousand sixty individuals
[1].

Cayuvava frank and loyal to be made of all who want to interact with them. In throughout the
province who know no other better navigation that these Indians, rowers working more experiments
and pilots in the Mamore River.

Regarding its industry, nothing is left Moxos excel by being perhaps superior to those in the
field of agriculture.
 He had all the skill of the old forest runners, because his
footsteps made no sound as he passed and he knew how to keep his figure always in the shadows
until it became a common blur with them.

His was a most delicate task, in which discovery was certain death, but he never faltered.
His heart beat steadily and strong.  It was an old risk to him, and he had the advantage of
great natural aptitude, fortified by long training in a school of practice where a single misstep
meant death.

The sharp eyes of the spy missed nothing.  He counted the thirty pieces of artillery on the
hill.  He estimated with amazing accuracy the number of Stuart's horsemen.  He saw a thousand
proofs that the heavy firing he had heard in the course of the day was not due to battle with
Northern troops.  Although he stopped at times for longer looks, he made a wide circuit about
the Confederate camp, and he was satisfied that Stuart, vigilant and daring though he might
be, was not expecting an enemy.

Shepard's heart for the first time beat a little faster.  He had felt as much as any general
the Northern defeats and humiliations in the east, but, like officers and soldiers, he was
not crushed by them.  He even felt that the tide might be about to turn.  Lee, invading the
North, would find before him many of the difficulties which had faced the Northern generals
attacking the South.  Shepard, a man of supreme courage, resolved that he would spare no effort
in the service to which he had devoted himself.

He spent fully four hours in the thickets, and then, feeling that he had achieved his task,
bore away toward the river.  Taking off his coat and belt with pistols in it, and fastening
them about his neck, he swam with bold strokes to the other side of the stream.  However, had
anyone been on the watch at that very point, it was not likely that he would have been seen.
It was the approach of dawn and heavy mists were rising on the Rappahannock, as they had risen
at Fredericksburg and Chancellorsville.

Shepard gave the countersign to the pickets and was shown at once to General Pleasanton, an
alert, vigorous man, who was awaiting him. His report was satisfactory, because the cavalry
general smiled and began to send quick orders to his leaders of divisions.

But the peace in Stuart's command was not broken that night.  No one had seen the figure of
the spy sliding through the thickets, and Harry and his comrades in the Inn of the Greenwood
Tree were very warm and snug in their blankets.  As day came he yawned, stretched, closed his
eyes again, thinking that he might have another precious fifteen minutes, but, recalling his
resolution, sprang to his feet and began to rub his eyes clear.

He had slept fully dressed, like all the rest, and he intended to go down to a brook in a few
minutes and bathe his face.  But he first gave Sherburne a malicious shove with his foot and
bade him wake up, telling him that it was too late for an alert cavalry captain to be sleeping.

Then Sherburne also yawned, stretched, and stood up, rubbing his eyes. The others about them
rose too, and everybody felt chilled by the river fog, which was uncommonly heavy.

"Breakfast for me," said Sherburne.

"Not just now, I think," said Harry.  "Listen!  Aren't those rifle shots?"

A patter, patter, distant but clear in the morning, came from a point down the stream.

"You're right!" exclaimed Sherburne in alarm.  "It's on our side of the river and it's increasing
fast!  As sure as we live, the enemy has crossed and attacked!"

They were not left in doubt.  The pickets, running in, told them that a heavy force of Northern
cavalry was across the Rappahannock and was charging with vigor.  In fact, two of the divisions
had passed the fords unseen in the fog and were now rushing Stuart's camp.

But Stuart, although surprised, never for an instant lost his presence of mind.  Throughout
the Southern lines the bugles sounded the sharp call to horse.  It was full time.  The outposts
had been routed already and were driven in on the main body.

Harry ran to his horse, which had been left saddled and bridled for any emergency.  He leaped
upon him and rode by the side of Sherburne, whose troop was already in line.  They could not
see very well for the mists, but the fire in front of them from cavalry carbines had grown
into great violence.  It made a huge shower of red dots against the white screen of the mist,
and now they heard shouts and the beat of thousands of hoofs.

"They're making for our artillery!" exclaimed Sherburne with true instinct.  "Follow me, men!
We must hold them back, for a few minutes at least!"

Sherburne and his gallant troops were just in time.  A great force of cavalry in blue suddenly
appeared in the whitish and foggy dawn and charged straight for the guns.  Without delaying
a moment, Sherburne flung his troops in between, although they were outnumbered twenty to one
or more.  He did not expect to stop them; he merely hoped to delay them a few minutes, and
therefore he offered himself as a sacrifice.

Harry was beside Sherburne as they galloped straight toward the Northern cavalry, firing their
short carbines and then swinging their sabres.

"They'll ride over us!" he shouted to Sherburne.

"But we'll trouble 'em a little as they pass!" the captain shouted back.

Harry shut his teeth hard together.  A shiver ran over him, and then his face grew hot.  The
pulses in his temples beat heavily.  He was sure that Sherburne and he and all the rest were
going to perish.  The long and massive Northern line was coming on fast.  They, too, had fired
their carbines, and now thousands of sabres flashed through the mists. Harry was swinging his
own sword, but as the great force bore down upon them, the white mist seemed to turn to red
and the long line of horsemen fused into a solid mass, its front flashing with steel.

He became conscious, as the space between them closed rapidly, that a heavy crackling fire
was bursting from a wood between the Northern cavalry and the river.  The Southern skirmishers,
brushed away at first, had returned swiftly, and now they were sending a rain of bullets upon
the blue cavalrymen.  Many saddles were emptied, but the line went on, and struck Sherburne's
troop.

Harry saw a man lean from his horse and slash at him with a sabre. He had no sabre of his own,
only a small sword, but he cut with all his might at the heavy blade instead of the man, and
he felt, rather than saw, the two weapons shatter to pieces.  Then his horse struck another,
and, reeling in the saddle, he snatched out a pistol and began to fire at anything that looked
like a human shape.

He heard all about him a terrible tumult of shots and shouts and the thunder of horses' hoofs.
He still saw the red mist and a thousand sabres flashing through it, and he heard, too, the
clash of steel on steel.  The Northern line had been stopped one minute, two minutes, and maybe
three.  He was conscious afterwards that in some sort of confused way he was trying to measure
the time.  But he was always quite certain that it was not more than three minutes.  Then the
Northern cavalry passed over them.

Harry's horse was fairly knocked down by the impetus of the Northern charge, and the young
rider was partly protected by his body from the hoofs that thundered over them.  Horse and
rider rose together.  Harry found that the reins were still clenched in his hand.  His horse
was trembling all over from shock, and so was he, but neither was much harmed.  Beyond him
the great cavalry division was galloping on, and he gazed at it a moment or two in a kind of
stupor.  But he became conscious that the fire of the Southern skirmishers on its flank was
growing heavier and that many horses without riders were running loose through the forest.

Then his gaze turned back to the little band that had stood in the path of the whirlwind, and
he uttered a cry of joy as he saw Sherburne rising slowly to his feet, the blood flowing from
a wound in his left shoulder.

"It isn't much, Harry," said the captain.  "It was only the point of the sabre that grazed
me, but my horse was killed, and the shock of the fall stunned me for a moment or two.  Oh,
my poor troop!"

There was good cause for his lament.  Less than one-fourth of his brave horsemen were left
unhurt or with but slight wounds.  The wounded who could rise were limping away toward the
thickets, and the unwounded were seeking their mounts anew.  Harry caught a riderless horse.
His faculties were now clear and the effect of the physical shock had passed.

"We held 'em three minutes at least, Captain," he cried, "and it may be that three minutes
were enough. Leaving
the coast soon, I went to Tacna, and then began my ascension to the ridges on the road and
Tacora Palca, but instead of tripping over there with those steep and sharp ridges, which are
figured on the maps, I found myself on a very extensive plain, placed at a height of four thousand
five hundred yards above sea level, and which only became aware of a few moles here and there
cloud-covered cone. Crossing this exalted level, I came to meet then at the top of the chain
of Chulluncayani. Contemplating from there the very extensive extension that unfolded before my eyes,
and so large variety of objects that looks amounted to dominate the time, I savored a sense
of indefinable admiration. It is true that most picturesque landscaping are found in the Pyrenees and
the Alps, but never saw these look so great and so much majesty. Plain Bolivia, which has more
than thirty miles wide, you dilated at my feet by right and left out of sight, offering only
small parallel ridges, which seemed to fluctuate the ocean like ripples on the vast plain, where the
north-west horizon and the Southeast did not meet me to discover, while they looked towards the
north shine above of the hills that limited, some areas of the crystalline waters of the famous
lake Titicaca, the mysterious home of the children of the sun. On the other side of such a sublime
set could see the severe symptoms, which form the vast curtain of the Andes, interrupted with
peaks acute, representing the exact shape of a saw. Between these heights are raised the Guaina
Potosi, Illimani and Sorata snowy cone showing her oblique and flattened, these three giants of
American forests, which are drawn glowing snow, above the clouds in the dark blue background
of the sky more transparent and beautiful in the world. Towards North and South Eastern Cordillera
is declining gradually until completely lost on the horizon. If I had I felt full of admiration
in the presence of Tacora, here I was carried, and yet this was not only one of the faces in
that picture, because back towards the other hand, showed me a set of not less attractive. I
discovered even the Chipicani, the Tacora, and all the mountains of western plain, which had
just transpose, and on which my eyes had been arrested many times during the three days of
my traffic of the Cordilleras.

I went to the Bolivian plains situated even at the height of four thousand yards above sea level,
and that is the most populated of the republic.

I came to the city of La-Paz, the former Choquehapu (Gold country), named for its abundance
of this metal mines, gave the Aymara. This valley favored by the proximity of the Yungas, which is
three thousand seven hundred lifting beam, holds to the same time all the fruit markets of the
countries cold, the temperate and torrid zone. Immediately wrote to the government, forwarding my
letters of recommendation. In response he offered me his protection, and funds if needed, also
proposes a military officer and two youths to accompany me. Not wanting to abuse of such generous
offers, I accepted, with the greatest gratitude, only the last two and transportation facilities throughout
the republic, and from that moment, I considered and sure you can go with this beautiful and rich
fruit of the American continent.

Eager to see the province of Yungas, which they said to me many wonders,
dirijíme to Palca, and once placed on the summit of the Cordillera
Oriental, I was dazzled so by the majesty of the whole, which certainly
did not see but the vast extension without to realize the details.

It was no longer a snowy mountain that I thought to grab, no was a wide plain, cloudless and
without active vegetation .... Everything was different here. Turning towards the side of La-Paz
still sailing the arid mountains and the sky is always pure, typical the high plains. Everywhere,
at the level where I was, clad heights ice and snow, but what a contrast by the side of the
Yungas! Until five or six hundred yards below me, upholstered in green velvet mountains, and that seemed
reflected in clear skies and calm to this point, a border of white clouds, representing a vast
sea battering the flanks of the mountains, and above which rise to all highest peaks, appearing
islets. When the clouds parted, I discovered a unfathomable depth below this zone, the limit
of vegetation on, the green dark blue of the virgin forests that adorn everywhere so rugged
terrain. Full of joy at being surrounded by nature, so different from the one I had submitted
the western slopes and plains of the mountain, I want first to hide under this canopy of clouds,
a few moments to roam freely over the region of thunder.

I visited on Yanacachi, Chupi, Chulumani Irupana, etc., Alternately passing the riverbed to the top
of the mountains. The pompous vegetation of Rio de Janeiro you go away reproduced in these sites,
but with more splendor in a warm moisture encourages them even on the most rugged rocks, plants
prodigious.

After having studied in detail this province, so rich in production, followed by the same western
side, crossing uneven terrain, but rich in silver mines in the provinces of Sicasica and Ayupaya,
through Cajuata, Suri, Inquisivi, and Palca Cavaria to climb the mountain again east, where
my eyes fell suddenly, to a few thousand feet, on the rich valleys of Cochabamba and Clisa. What a singular
contrast with that of the cliffs where I was! It was the image of chaos next to the largest peace:
it was the nature sad and silent in the presence of more vibrant life. I saw it in the midst
of barren hills two extended plains cultivated and trimmed on all sides of huts and groves,
among which were distinguished large number of villages, and a great city to which we excel their
buildings as a queen among his vassals. Nothing can effectively compare to the sensation that
produces the appearance of these plains, covered with villages, plantations and culture, circumscribed
by a mountainous and barren nature, extending to more thirty leagues around the horizon lost confused.
One would think there's see promised land within the wilderness. If I ever tried had vivid
impressions presence of the beauties of that savage nature Boliviano great plain, and Eastern Cordillera,
where life does not fit all in all, it is nothing there regarding the man, they would not be
much higher, finding these places I animated, these buildings strewn plains, these rich fields
abound that aroused in my mind the image of my country!

Cochabamba and its surroundings were for a time the theater of my research, continuing then my
march towards the east, walked through a hundred miles of mountains quite dry, but cut of fertile
and deep valleys. During this journey I recognized on the provinces of Clisa, Mizque and the Valle
Grande, following the path of Punata, Pacon, Totora, Chaluani, Chilon, Pampa Grande and Samaypata
(the bench rest), the last inhabited place in the mountains of which only thirty leagues were
far from the fertile plains of the continental center.

Few days Later it was discovered, the top of the slope of Flask, the extended horizon of a flat hot
covered with forests, in whose center is granted the quiet town of Santa-Cruz-de-la-Sierra.

The study of this remarkable city and its contours occupied my attention for several months: past
them, I resolved to penetrate deeper in the lands inhabited. I was already as to three hundred
leagues from the sea, but also longing to know the pure populations Indians, I turned my place
on the east, towards the province of Chiquitos, atrevasando the Monte Grande, whose thick foliage
covers an area of ​​more than sixty leagues, where vain Guests will seek out other savage animals.

Chiquitos Province, placed in the center of the Americas, has over ten and eight thousand miles
in area, and being very fertile their land, it can be grown all the fruits of the hot countries,
while in the mountains of Santiago could sown wheat and planted vines. I visited on San-Javier, Concepcion,
San-Miguel, Santa Ana, San-Ignacio, San-Rafael, San-José and Santiago, and just came to find
on these mountains in the spring of those regions.

While the hot sun toasted the surrounding plains, some charities clouds perched on top of the
mountains, had operated a total change in the appearance of nature. The trees were covered in a
sweet variety of foliage and flowers, the countryside luxuriously deployed its exquisite ropages.
Absolutely nothing could compare the beautiful station in Europe to a certain moment in the
torrid zones.

In France, for example, the leaves are sprouting little by little, and the cold and lack of
beautiful days are often feel even after late spring. In places, this is but the change Suddenly
a decoration. Nature is dead, lifeless, a very pure sky field illuminates a sad and almost deserted,
but a downpour occurs, and to the point, as charm, all things take a new life. Requires only
a few days for glazing Meadows greenery and fragrant flowers, and trees coated with these tender
green leaves, or with the flowers that precede them, giving to each one of them a bright color and smooth.
If the countryside flaunting their beautiful carpet, embalmed the air with perfumes softer, forests
have less other non-flattering beauty and variety. Here a tree laden with long clusters purple
contrasts with the glasses, and sky, and the purest gold, there stands a snow-white summit
meeting to more tender pink. I climbed with much rejoicing by those slopes, where vegetables
are so beautiful façade, with its jewels, or walked the meadows without knowing which site to
give preference, as each of them offered me a charm it was particular, a different type. I confess
that I never felt so amazed in the presence of the beauties of the ground covered by a canopy so splendid.

Leaving
very soon the little town of Santiago, and through immense forests and the river of Tucabaca, probably
intended to deliver rich gold mines, arrived at Saint-Heart, which is the easternmost point
of the inhabited places of the republic. Holy Heart was actually end that part of the world because
no one could then spend more later. So Therefore, calculating the massive benefits that would
result from the navigation of the Paraguay to commercial traffic and to the civilization of
the province of Chiquitos, and longing to be the first instrument of this giant, picked up all
possible data of indigenous used to traverse the forests, and I open
a way towards the ruins of ancient Holy Heart, where the river runs
Oxuquis, consisting of rivers and Tucabaca San-Rafael, reaching to
make sure that the high steep banks of this stream could provide,
in all seasons port and comfortable hotel within walking distance
of the Paraguay River, which flows a bit above the fort of New-Coimbra.

In 1831, these important data communicated to the government of Bolivia, making him see the positive
change that for the province and the whole republic would result in a new way of communication,
by the Rio de la Plata, the Atlantic Ocean.

Eager to explore another point of Chiquitos, through beautiful forests in the mission I set San-Juan,
and returned at once to San-Javier, where I also said goodbye to departed the province, after
six months I had dedicated to his study.

Amid the vast and gloomy forests that separate the vast provinces of Chiquitos and Moxos, and a large
complex, which is indicated in our best maps and unknown runs a navigable river but also ignored:
this river is the San-Miguel. Its banks covered of vegetation as luxurious as active, are inhabited
by a remarkable nation, such Guarayos are, they do in America, for their open hospitality and customs
quite simple and primitive, the poetic dream of a golden age. Among these men of simple nature, who
never tormented jealousy, theft, this moral plague grossest civilizations
as the more refined, it is not known.

If some I had often longed to lie in the abandonment seeing magnificent countryside, while
Europe so many unhappy peasants perish in misery, how much more acute sense should not be my
in the presence of those places, the most abundant that I had found
until then, and wherein a prodigious nature, and a special class of
vegetation, it seems be asking to use arms to come through the crop
producer!

Leaving the land of the Guarayos, I went and walked eight days paddling on the waters of San-Miguel,
whose margins are already covered with tall bamboos and palm fronds of palms. The river is
well boxed everywhere, so that vessels of all sizes can navigate there easily at any time.
Thus I got in the mission of Carmen de Moxos and visited this vast province, where, on a surface
of thirteen to fourteen thousand miles, thirty and three navigable rivers are offering to commerce
and industry in the middle routes already mapped one plain, which gives rise to all major
southern flows, tax the famous Rio de las Amazonas. Live there, divided into ten different nations
and speaking different languages, one people, all dedicated to navigation, and who know the smallest
twists and turns of these natural waterways, they cross daily in canoes made from a single
tree trunk, which is hollowed out by dint of iron and fire.

Navigating the Rio Blanco and Rio Itonama, and on a canoe through flooded plains, up to the Rio
Machupo, I visited on Concepcion, Magdalena, San-Ramon and San-Joaquin, remains of the splendid
past of the Jesuits.

About the last point found some iron mines, which embraced a two leagues have been placed by nature
as to facilitate tillage and give life to those regions not far from the river, and immediately
to very great forests.

I went down to the Machupo Itonama its confluent, and then leads the Guaporé or Iten, by which the Brazilians
up from the Amazon to Rio Mato Grosso, taking into their booths for goods from Europe. Actually
I found two of these boats in the Forte-do-principe-de-Beira, where
a Brazilian garrison.

This has Guaporé point more than half a mile wide, its waters are majestically in the midst of
fine margins and between islands of trees trimmed very picturesque. Down for him, I compared
mentally these deserts, sad and silent today, which will be when
an industrious population and encourage them to come to derive benefits
from their gifts, and when trade with Europeans, as in action, covering
the waters for steamboat to bring wealth and intellectual life.

I finally arrived at the confluence of the rivers Guaporé and Mamore,
and placed on the very tip the angle formed by the reunion of the
two major rivers in those regions, I hugged at a glance flows either.

Between both the most wonderful contrast. On one side, introduced Guaporé the symbol of the stillness,
dark forests extend to the edge of its waters, which are slow and majesty: the other, I offered
the Mamore the image of chaos and instability of things. Its red waters highly restless, crawling,
bubbling, countless pieces of vegetation, and even giant trunks, violently uprooted along the
banks of the stream. Nothing is stable on its passage. If one of its banks is almost naked terromoteros
cover of vegetation, and where they grow some annual plants, the other, armed with sandy gullies,
time crumbles time constantly undermined by the waters, dragging down trees that have centuries,
so the creeks are full of logs, that rising extraordinary have been piling up.

The Mamore Guaporé as wide as I showed on its shores and on its tributaries,
in the course of a voyage as a hundred leagues, the beautiful missions
exaltation Santa-Ana, San-Xavier, the Trinidad and Loreto.

Communications that existed between Cochabamba and Moxos were long, and mostly very risky this being
a huge barrier to trade established between the two points. So I decided to look for obiar such
drawbacks, a more abbreviated way, or a waterway in the midst of jungles and mountains, convinced
that with this I would do a service to Bolivia able to give his government a testimony of
my gratitude for the many favors that he was just borrowing.

A little south of the Trinity, I had noticed on the west bank of the Mamore mouth of Rio Securi,
unmarked on maps, and whose course even in the same country was unknown. This mighty river,
which comes more directly from the mountains east of Cochabamba, should help implement my
project, but wanted to make sure everything by myself, for if they were not exaggerated the difficulties
of communication hitherto existing.

Indeed left the scorching plains of the province of Moxos, flooded
a part of year and embarking in a canoe, helped by the Indians Cayuvava
the best rowers the area, climbed the Mamore river to its confluence
with the Chapare, and for this, then, to its junction with the Rio
Coni.

Finally, on the fifteenth day of an arduous voyage, during which I had not seen anything but forests
and the small part of heaven for the deep furrow in the rivers in the middle of that perennial
sea of ​​green, I came to find with the nation of the Yuracares, at the foot of the last slopes of the
Cordillera Oriental.

The virgin forests of Brazil, so perfection and grace has been transferred
to canvas the brush of one of the best French artists, in no way resemble
the places where I was.

In these, nature aided by a hot temper and constantly wet, has taken such a development, that
there is nothing that can compare. The whole of anditos vegetation there four different account.
Trees of eighty to one hundred yards of elevation form a canopy of green life, often glazed with more
vivid colors and purplish flowers, trees that are entirely covered, and the vines, such as hair
falling to the ground.

That's where countless species of fig trees walnut, and mulberry trees mingle with a crowd
of trees, each of which represents a true botanical garden by parasitic plants that cover
them. Below the first rank, and as protected by it, soar to the height of twenty to thirty yards
thin trunks and rights of palm trees, foliage covers a very varied in its forms, and bunches of
flowers or fruit that court to contention most beautiful birds. Below, still grow, as three to four
yards high, other palms slightly thinner than first, and to which the slightest breath of wind would
unravel, but only the north wind Waving the top of the giants of
the vegetation, which rarely let a few rays enough sun to reach the
ground, which is also decorated with more plants varied miscellany
of elegant ferns to cut sheets, small palm with leaves whole, and
especially of horehound an extraordinary lightness and delicacy.

Is not a slip under this shadow for life, one can visit all the points without bothered by the
thorns and brambles. Who was given this wonderful painting show, and express the feelings he
inspires? The traveler feels transported, his imagination is exalted, but if waking from his trance
descends into himself, and dares to be measured when confronted with a creation so awesome,
how is null and meager! And how then by awareness of their smallness and weakness in the presence
of so much greatness, comes to pass out your pride!

Leaving these beautiful regions, say first to my ascent on the mountains between thousand cliffs, and
as I got up, looked quickly change to the nature of a and appearance.
  Other scouts came, one after another, with the same report.  Harry saw the gravity
with which the news was received, and he speedily gathered from the talk of those about him
that Lee must abandon his advance to the Pennsylvania capital and turn and fight, or be isolated
far from Virginia, the Southern base.

Stuart and the cavalry were still absent on a great raid.  Lee's orders to Stuart were not
explicit, and the cavalry leader's ardent soul gave to them the widest interpretation.  Now
they felt the lack of his horsemen, who in the enemy's country could have obtained abundant
information.  A spy had brought them the news that the Army of the Potomac had crossed the
Potomac and was marching on a parallel line with them, but at that point their knowledge ended.
The dark veil, which was to be lifted in such a dramatic and terrible manner, still hung between
the two armies.

The weather turned very warm, as it was now almost July.  So far as the heat was concerned
Harry could not see any difference between Pennsylvania and Kentucky and Virginia.  In all
three the sun blazed at this time of the year, but the country was heavy with crops, now ripening
fast.  It was a region that Harry liked.  He had a natural taste for broken land with slopes,
forests, and many little streams of clear water.  Most of the fields were enclosed in stone
fences, and the great barns and well-built houses indicated prosperous farmers.

He and Dalton rode up to one of these houses, and, finding every door and window closed, knocked
on the front door with a pistol butt. They knew it was occupied, as they had seen smoke coming
from the chimney.

"This house surely belongs to a Dutchman," said Dalton, meaning one of those Pennsylvanians
of German descent who had settled in the rich southeast of Pennsylvania generations ago.

"I fear they don't know how to talk English," said Harry.

"They can if they have to.  Hit that door several times more, Harry, and hit it hard.  They're
a thrifty people, and they wouldn't like to see a good door destroyed."

Harry beat a resounding tattoo until the door was suddenly thrown open and the short figure
of a man of middle years, chin-whiskered and gray, but holding an old-fashioned musket in his
hands, confronted them.

"Put down that gun, Herr Schneider!  Put it down at once!" said Dalton, who had already levelled
his pistol.

The man was evidently no coward, but when he looked into Dalton's eye, he put the musket on
the floor.

Harry, still sitting on his horse--they had ridden directly up to the front door--saw a stalwart
woman and several children hovering in the dusk of the room behind the man.  He watched the
whole group, but he left the examination to Dalton.

"I want you to tell me, Herr Schneider, the location of the Army of the Potomac, down to the
last gun and man, and what are the intentions of General Meade," said Dalton.

The man shook his head and said, "Nein."

"Nine!" said Dalton indignantly.  "General Meade has more than nine men with him!  Come, out
with the story!  All those tales about the rebels coming to burn and destroy are just tales,
and nothing more.  You understand what I'm saying well enough.  Come, out with your information!"

"Nein," said the German.

"All right," said Dalton in a ferocious tone.  "After all, we are the rebel ogres that you
thought we were."

He turned toward his comrade and, with his back toward the German, winked and said:

"What do you think I'd better do with him?"

"Oh, kill him," replied Harry carelessly.  "He's broad between the eyes and there's plenty
of room there for a bullet.  You couldn't miss at two yards."

The German made a dive toward his musket, but Dalton cried sharply:

"Hands up or I shoot!"

The German straightened himself and, holding his hands aloft, said:

"You would not kill me in the shelter uf mein own house?" Coming into the world of Febrer
was an event that was widely spoken across the city. The great lady parturient remained secluded
in his palace forty days, and during this time the doors were open, the hall full of carriages,
the servants formed in the lobby, lounges full of visitors, the tables covered with sweets,
cakes and soft drinks. There were days of the week for the reception of each class. Some were only
for the sausages, aristocracy of the aristocracy, houses privileged few and families, united by kinship
of continuous crosses, other days for men, traditional nobility lived, not knowing why, subject
to the above, then received the mossons, lower class but family atmosphere with the great, intellectuals
of the time, doctors, lawyers and notaries who offered their services to illustrious families.

Don
Horacio recalled the splendor of these receptions. The ancients knew how to do things big.

- When did your father - told his grandson - was the last party in this house. Eight hundred
Majorcan pounds paid a confectioner by azucarillos Borne, biscuits
and soft drinks.

Remembered his father Jaime unless your grandfather. His memory was a sympathetic figure and
sweet, but slightly blurred. To think he just saw a soft beard and some clear as hers, a bald
forehead, a sweet smile and sunglasses that glowed when bending. Had that boy had had an affair
with her cousin Jane, austere lady call all the Popess, who lived as a nun and enjoyed enormous
wealth, lavish gifts at other times the pretender Don Carlos, and now the people around her church.

The
breaking of her father she was undoubtedly the cause of "Pope Joan"
is maintained away from this branch of his family, trying to Jaime
with hostile indifference.

His father was a naval officer, following a family tradition. Was in Pacific war, was a lieutenant
in a frigate which bombed the port of Callao, and as if he expected to have given only a test of
courage, he retired from service immediately. Then he married a lady of Palma, small fortune,
whose father was military governor the island of Ibiza. "The Pope Joan", speaking a day with
James, had tried to hurt him, his voice cold and haughty gesture.

- Your mother was a noble family of knights ... but it was not sausage like us.

James spent the first years of his life, he began to realize his surroundings, without seeing his father
more than I did the quick trip to Mallorca. It was the Progressive Party and the Revolution of 1868
had made him deputy. Then, when King Amadeus of Savoy, the monarch revolutionary defied and
abandoned by the traditional nobility, he had to attend new historical men to form his court.
The sausage, a requirement of the party, was a senior official of the palace. His wife, requested
by him to be moved to Madrid, would not leave the island. Go her to court! And his son, who
had been born almost? ... Don Horacio increasingly gaunt and weak, but always straight in the
eternal new frock coat, she continued the daily walk, setting up his life to the Town Hall clock.
Liberal old, big fan of Martinez de la Rosa for his verses and diplomatic elegance their ties,
wry face when reading newspapers and letters from her son. What would stop everything ...?

In the short period of the Republic became the father to the island, ending his career. "The Pope
Joan ', despite the relationship, pretended not to know. I was very busy at that time. Made trips
to the Peninsula turned, it was said, huge amounts for supporters Don Carlos, who supported the war
in Catalonia and the northern provinces. That does not speak Jaime Febrer, the old sailor! She was
a real sausage, a defender of tradition, and made sacrifices so that Spain was ruled by gentlemen. His
cousin was less than a Chueta: it was a "shirtless." And as people said, this hatred was linked
ideas bitterness for some disappointments from the past that he could not forget.

To restore the Bourbons, the "progressive", the palatal Amadeo became Republican and conspirator. He made
frequent trips; receiving coded letters from Paris, was going to Menorca visit the fleet anchored
in Mahon, and using friends of former officer, catechized to peers, preparing a revolt of the navy.
Put in these revolutionary companies the same old burning Febrer adventurous, daring quiet, until
suddenly died in Barcelona, ​​out of his house.

The grandfather received the news with unmoved gravity, but have not see him at noon on Palma
neighboring streets awaiting their way to put the rice into the fire. Eighty six years and
had walked enough: for what he had to do! ... He retired in second floor, where only admitted
to his grandson. When relatives came to visit him, he preferred down the hall, despite its weakness,
properly dressed, with a new coat, the two triangles neck white hovering over the threads of the tie,
always clean-shaven, with Pin well combed and glossy toupee glue. The day came he could not
leave the bed, and his grandson saw him between the sheets, looking as usual, keeping the thin
cambric shirt, tie, that the servant was changing every day, and silk vest flowers. When he
announced the visit of his daughter, Don Horacio was a gesture of annoyance.

- Louie: the coat ... She is a lady, and we must receive it with decency.

Same

operation is repeated to reach the doctor or the few visitors who deigned to receive. Had to be
maintained until the last minute on weapons, or as he had seen all life.

One afternoon, a faint voice called his grandson, who was reading by a window in a travel book.
Could retire: he needed to be alone. Jaime went and grandfather could die with dignity in
solitude, without the torment of having to ensure the cleanliness of their gestures, and can be delivered
without witnesses grins and thrills of agony.

Febrer to be alone and her mother, the boy felt desire for freedom. He had filled his imagination
travel adventures and read in the library of his grandfather, and also of the achievements of
their ancestors held in the accounts of family. Navy wanted to be like his father and like most
of their grandparents. The mother resisted, with great extremes of shock that made pale cheeks and
blue lips. The only Febrer, subject to a dangerous existence and living away from her! ...
No, many heroes had the house. Should be master in the island, a gentleman of quiet life,
which would create a family to perpetuate the family name I was wearing.

Jaime

yielded to the entreaties of his mother, eternal sick that the slightest setback seemed put
in danger. Since marine does not want, look into another career. Needed do what other kids
his age who had tried in classrooms Institute. For the sixteen years he embarked for the Peninsula.
His mother wanted it to be lawyer, so he could unravel the fortunes of the family, with mortgage
collateral and stirred and loans.

His luggage was huge, a real home furnishings, and pocket carried it well stocked. A Febrer
could not live as a mere student. First he went to Valencia, believing the mother this population
less dangerous for youth. In another course went to Barcelona, ​​and on was traveling from university
to university, depending on the mood of the professors, and benevolence with students. His career
did not advance much. Certain courses approved by a happy chance at the time of examination
or by the quiet courage with which he spoke of what he knew not. In others are stuck, unable
to move forward. The mother accepted as a good all explanations to return to Mallorca. She consoled him,
advising him not along their studies, and writhed against the injustice of the present times.
His implacable enemy "the High Priestess Juana "was right. These times were for men, they had
declared war, all sorts of injustices committed to keep them relegated.

Jaime enjoyed some popularity in corporations and cafés of Barcelona and Valencia where there
were games of chance. They called him "the Spaniard of ounces", because her mother had remitted
money in ounces of gold, which rolled with shocking reflection on the green tables. The prestige magnificence
of this money was tied its strange title of sausage, which made her smile in the Peninsula,
evoking in the imagination of many a kind of feudal authority, with sovereign rights on distant
islands.

Five years passed. Jaime was already a man, but had not yet reached half of its studies. His fellow
students from the island, returning during the summer, rejoiced at the coterie Borne of coffees
with the story of the adventures of Febrer in Barcelona. I saw the arm through the streets with
luxury striking women, people who frequent the timbas bravia kept big respects to 'Mallorcan
ounces "for his strength and courage. Had One night he grabbed a bully, raising his arms in
the air Athlete to throw out a window. And the peaceful Mallorcan, hearing this, smiled with
a local pride. It was a Febrer, Febrer real. The island produced as brave young men forever.

The
good Mrs. Purification, mother of James, was a serious disappointment
and a joy to maternal shocking to know that some female had reached
the island in pursuit of his son.

The included and apologized. A young man as handsome as his Jaime! ... But the girl in costume
ruffled manners and customs of the tranquil city of good families were outraged, Dona Purification dealt
with it, using intermediaries to give money and to discontinue the island.

In other scandal was higher rental. Jaime, who hunted in Son Febrer, had sex payesa with a young
and beautiful, and almost went to shotgun with a rustic boy that
intended.

His love countryside helped him pass the banishment of the summer. It was a legitimate Febrer
like his grandfather. The poor lady knew what to expect about that father always seriously and correct,
that chin stroking the young peasant girls with a coolness of Lord serious. Nearby are the
property of Febres were many young men who had their faces Don Horacio, but his Mexican wife,
poetic soul, he lived well beyond these platitudes, while the harp at the knees and squinting
Ossian poems recited. The rustic beauties rebocillo crisp, white sandals and loose strands
attracted the sleek and stately Febrer with irresistible force.

When Dona Purification long complained about the hunting trips he undertook his son the island,
he stayed in the city, spending the day in the garden for exercise
in the pistol.

Scary taught his mother a bag kept in the shade of an orange.

- Do you see this? ... It is a hundredweight of gunpowder. Until they
burn it does not break.

And Antonia feared Madò look out their kitchen windows, and the nuns who occupied part showed
the old palace a moment his white veil, hiding immediately as doves
frightened by the continuous shooting.

The garden is enclosed by crenellated walls bordering the sea wall, trembled with morning to
night under the din of the explosions. Frightened birds fled with flapping; climbed over the walls cracked
green lizard, hiding between layers of ivy cats trotted the avenues with a gallop of terror.
The trees were very old, respectable as the palace ancient orange, twisted trunk, they needed
the support of a pins to support fence venerable members; magnolieros giant, with more wood but
leaves, palm barren, going back into the blue sky above the sea looking
the battlements to greet him with plumed head swings.

The sun was cracking the bark of trees and forgotten to pop the flower seeds earth golden sparks
danced like insects buzzing in the bars of light that pierced foliage, fell with soft splash,
from time to time, peeling of ripe figs the branches sounded in the distance the murmur of the
sea, breaking rocks at the foot of the wall, and populated in this quiet murmurs still firing
pistols Febrer. It was already a master. When pointing to the puppet drawn on the wall, lamented
that it was not a man, a hated enemy who needed to be exterminated.

This bullet was the heart. Pum! And smiled with satisfaction to see the bullet hole marked in the same
place it had targeted.

The noise of the shots, the smoke of gunpowder, awakened in his mind warlike fantasies stories
of struggle and death for a hero who was always successful. Twenty years and had not been beaten yet!
... I needed a set to show proof of their courage. It was unfortunate had no enemies, but seek
one created when he returned to Spain. And to persist in these ravings of his imagination, excited
by the roar of explosions, feigned an affair of honor. His opponent you played the first shot
and he fell to the ground. Still had gun in hand, must defend itself,
should answer lay on the ground.

And to the great scandal his mother and Antonia Mado, who thought him crazy to look out, remained
lying on his face and fired in this position, trained "for when to smite him."

Upon returning to Spain in order to continue their endless studies, was strengthened for country
life, arrogant for his essays in the garden and eager to have the desired match the first one
to give him the slightest pretext. But being polite man, unable to unfair provocations, and
its appearance inspired respect to the insolent, time passed and
the set did not come.

Exuberant vitality, its driving force, consumíanse in dark adventures and stupid waste, of which the
island then spoke with admiration of peers studies.

Living in Barcelona, ​​received a telegram announcing that his mother
was seriously ill. Took two days to sail: there was a ship ready to
sail.

When he reached the island, its mother had died. Of the ancient family had been in his childhood
there was nobody left. Only Antonia Madò could remember the past.

When the owner saw the fortunes of the Febrer and in full freedom, was twenty years. The fortune
that was gnawed by esplendideces of their ancestors and overwhelmed
with all kinds levies.

Febrer's house was large, as those vessels that ran aground and lost to always make the richness
of the coast where they are going to die. His remains and debris, which would looked down the
old, still represented a fortune.

Jaime did not want to think, would not know. Needed to live, see the world, and gave up his studies.
What do you care about the laws and customs and Roman ecclesiastical canons to pass a good
life? I knew enough.

In fact, the best and most enjoyable of his knowledge I owed it to his mother when he lived as
a child in the home, but have seen teachers. She had taught French and some in an old piano
keyboard instrument large yellow and red silk frontispiece almost reached the ceiling. Others
knew less he and gentlemen were so much happier. A live !....

Spent two years in Madrid. Lovers had given him some popularity, famous horses, uproar in Fornos
mezzanines, was a close friend of a famous bullfighter and played hard. Had a duel, but it was
a sword - not as he had imagined, lying on the ground, pistol in his right hand - and left the set
with a puncture in his arm, something like a stitch pin in elephant
skin.

Was no longer "the Spaniard of ounces." The gold tank rounds kept by his mother was extinguished,
but threw the tickets lavishly on the gaming tables, and when had been "bad" he wrote to his manager,
a lawyer son of a family of former mossons, Febrer-dependent for centuries.

Tired of Madrid, where it was considered almost a stranger. He lingered in the soul of Febrer
old, great travelers of all countries except Spain, it had always lived returned back to their
kings. Many of his grandfathers were family members of all major cities of the Mediterranean,
had visited the rulers of small states Italians had been received in audience by the Pope and the
Grand Turk, but never I happened to go to Madrid.

In addition, Febrer often irritated with his relatives in court, young
proud their titles, who smiled when mentioning his rare quality of
sausage.

And to think the family had left them to go to the relatives of several marquisates Peninsula,
preferring the supreme title of nobility island and enjoyment of the highest dignities knightly
of Malta! ...

He began to travel around Europe, taking up residence in autumn and
winter party in Paris the cold months in the Costa Azul, spring and
summer in London at Ostend, with several expeditions to Italy, Egypt
and Norway to see the midnight sun.

In this new existence was barely known. He lived as a traveler, insignificant globule of the net
circulating blood to the longing of the trip spans the continent. But this life of constant movement,
runs overwhelming and unexpected adventures, met atavistic instincts,
hobbies inherited from their remote ancestors, great guests of new
towns.

In addition, this wandering existence flattered his lust for everything extraordinary. In hotels Nice
phalansteries of global corruption and hypocritical right, had been graced in the darkness of
her room at the most unexpected visits.

In Egypt he had to flee decadent touch of a Hungarian countess, withered flower of elegance,
sunken eyes and violent perfume, revealing smooth and juveniles under glazes the meat rot.

While in Munich turned twenty-eight. He had gone just before a Bayreuth for a performance Wagner's
operas, and now in the Bavarian capital, attended the theater of the Residence which verified
the Mozart Festival. Jaime was not a music lover, but he forced his wandering life to go where
people went, and his status amateur pianist had made two years attending followed this musical pilgrimage.

In
the hotel who lived in Munich he met Miss Mary Gordon, whom he had
seen before Wagner in the theater.

English was a tall, thin, low and fine meats, a body gymnastics, which sport had the pleasant
content feminine curves, giving it youthful, healthy and beautiful boy asexual. The head was
the most beautiful thing: a head straw, with transparency of porcelain, rosy little nose playful
dog, wet blue eyes and blonde hair, white gold and gold surface in
the dark in depths. Her beauty was adorable and fragile, the British
beauty is lost thirty years under violet rubicundeces and granulations
of the skin.

In the restaurant had repeatedly Jaime surprised look
in his blue eyes, candid and quietly bold, fixed on him. A lady was
fat, flabby and flushed face, company a lady dressed in black with
a red straw hat and a belt as color break in two hemispheres his bulky
chest and belly.

The charge came with such violence and in such numbers that the Southern skirmishers and infantry
in the wood were overpowered.  They were driven in a mass across Willoughby Run.  A thousand,
General Archer among them, were taken prisoners.

Harry and Dalton barely escaped, and in all the tumult and fury of the fighting they found
themselves with another division of the Southern army which was resisting a charge made with
the same energy and courage that marked the one led by Reynolds.  But the charge was beaten
back, and the Southerners, following, were repulsed in their turn.

The battle, which had been raging for three hours with the most extraordinary fury, sank a
little.  Harry and Dalton could make nothing of it.  Everything seemed wild, confused, without
precision or purpose, but the fighting had been hard and the losses great.

Heth now commanded on the field for the South and Doubleday for the North.  Each general began
to rectify his lines and try to see what had happened.  The Confederate batteries opened, but
did not do much damage, and while the lull continued, more men came for the North.

Harry and Dalton had found their way to Heth, who told them to stay with him until Lee came.
Heth was making ready to charge a brigade of stalwart Pennsylvania lumbermen, who, however,
managed to hold their position, although they were nearly cut to pieces.  Hill now passed along
the Southern line, and like the other Southern leaders, uncertain what to do in this battle
brought on so strangely and suddenly, ceased to push the Union lines with infantry, but opened
a tremendous fire from eighty guns.  The whole valley echoed with the crash of the cannon,
and the vast clouds of smoke began to gather again.  The Union forces suffered heavy losses,
but still held their ground.

Harry thought, while this comparative lull in close fighting was going on, that Dalton and
he should get back to General Lee with news of what was occurring, although he had no doubt
the commander-in-chief was now advancing as fast as he could with the full strength of the
army. Still, duty was duty.  They had been sent forward that they might carry back reports,
and they must carry them.

"It's time for us to go," he said to Dalton.

"I was just about to say that myself."

"We can safely report to the general that the vanguards have met at Gettysburg and that there
are signs of a battle."

Dalton took a long, comprehensive look over the valley in which thirty or forty thousand men
were merely drawing a fresh breath before plunging anew into the struggle, and said:

"Yes, Harry, all the signs do point that way.  I think we can be sure of our news."

They had not been able to catch any of the riderless horses galloping about the field, and
they started on foot, taking the road which they knew would lead them to Lee.  They emerged
from some bushes in which they had been lying for shelter, and two or three bullets whistled
between them.  Others knocked up the dust in the path and a shell shrieked a terrible warning
over their heads.  They dived back into the bushes.

"Didn't you see that sign out there in the road?" asked Harry.

"Sign!  Sign!  I saw no sign," said Dalton.

"I did.  It was a big sign, and it read, in big letters: 'No Thoroughfare.'"

"You must be right.  I suppose I didn't notice it, because I came back in such a hurry."

They had become so hardened to the dangers of war that, like thousands of others, they could
jest in the face of death.

"We must make another try for it," said Dalton.  "We've got to cross that road.  I imagine
our greatest danger is from sharpshooters at the head of it."

"Stoop low and make a dash.  Here goes!"

Bent almost double, they made a hop, skip and jump and were in the bushes on the other side,
where they lay still for a few moments, panting, while the hair on their heads, which had risen
up, lay down again.  Quick as had been their passage, fully a dozen ferocious bullets whined
over their heads.

"I hate skirmishers," said Harry.  "It's one thing to fire at the mass of the enemy, and it's
another to pick out a man and draw a bead on him."

"I hate 'em, too, especially when they're firing at me!" said Dalton. "But, Harry, we're doing
no good lying here in the bushes, trying to press ourselves into the earth so the bullets will
pass over our heads. Heavens!  What was that?"

"Only the biggest shell that was ever made bursting near us.  You know those Yankee artillerymen
were always good, but I think they've improved since they first saw us trying to cross the road."

"To think of an entire army turning away from its business to shoot at two fellows like ourselves,
who ask nothing but to get away!"

"And it's time we were going.  The bushes rise over our heads here. We must make another dash."

They rose and ran on, but to their alarm the bushes soon ended and they emerged into a field.
Here they came directly into the line of fire again, and the bullets sang and whistled around
them.  Once more they read in invisible but significant letters the sign, "No Thoroughfare,"
and darted back into the wood from which they had just come, while shells, not aimed at them,
but at the armies, shrieked over their heads.

"It's not the plan of fate that we should reach General Lee just yet," said Harry.

"The shells and bullets say it isn't.  What do you think we ought to do?"

Harry rose up cautiously and began to survey their position.  Then he uttered a cry of joy.

"More of our men are coming," he exclaimed, "and they are coming in heavy columns!  I see their
gray jackets and their tanned faces, and there, too, are the Invincibles.  Look, you can see
the two colonels, riding side by side, and just behind them are St. Clair and Langdon!"

Dalton's eyes followed Harry's pointing finger, and he saw.  It was a joyous sight, the masses
of their own infantry coming down the road in perfect order, and their own personal friends
not two hundred yards away.  But the Northern artillerymen had seen them too, and they began
to send up the road a heavy fire which made many fall.  Ewell's men came on, unflinching, until
they unlimbered their own guns and began to reply with fierce and rapid volleys.

The two youths sprang from the brush and rushed directly into the gray ranks of the Invincibles
before they could be fired upon by mistake as enemies.  The two colonels had dismounted, but
they recognized the fugitives instantly and welcomed them.

"Why this hurry, Lieutenant Kenton?" said Colonel Talbot politely.

"We were trying to reach General Lee, and not being able to do so, we are anxious to greet
friends."

"So it would seem.  I do not recall another such swift and warm greeting."

"But we're glad, Leonidas, that they've found refuge with us," said Lieutenant-Colonel Hector
St. Hilaire.

"So we are, Hector.  Down there, lads, for your lives!"

The colonel had seen a movement in the hostile artillery, and at his sharp command all of the
Invincibles and the two lads threw themselves on their faces, not a moment too soon, as a hideous
mass of grape and canister flew over their heads.  The Invincibles, rising to their feet, sent
a return volley from their rifles, and then, at the command of a general, fell back behind
their own cannon.

The Northern artillery in front was shifted, evidently to protect some weaker position of their
line, but the Southern troops in the road did not advance farther at present, awaiting the
report of scouts who were quickly sent ahead.

"You're welcome to our command," said Langdon, "but I notice that you come on foot and in a
hurry.  We're glad to protect officers on the staff of the commander-in-chief, whenever they
appeal to us."

"Even when they come running like scared colts," said St. Clair. "Why, Happy, I saw both of
'em jump clean over bushes ten feet high."

"You'd have jumped over trees a hundred feet high if a hundred thousand Yankees were shooting
at you as they were shooting at us," rejoined Harry.

"What place is this in the valley, Harry?" asked Colonel Talbot.

"It's called Gettysburg, sir.  We heard that it was full of shoes. We went there this morning
to get em, but we found instead that it was full of Yankees."

"And they know how to shoot, too," said Lieutenant-Colonel St. Hilaire. "We heard all the thunder
of a great battle as we came up."

"You haven't come too soon, sir," said Dalton.  "The Yankees are fighting like fiends, and
we've made very little headway against 'em. Besides, sir, fresh men are continually coming
up for 'em."

"And fresh men have now come for our side, too," said Colonel Leonidas Talbot proudly.  "I
fancy that a division of Jackson's old corps will have a good deal to say about the result."

"What part of the corps, sir, is this?" asked Harry.

"Rodes' division.  General Ewell himself has not yet arrived, but you may be sure he is making
the utmost haste with the rest of the division."

Rodes, full of eagerness, now pushed his troops forward.  Hill, who saw his coming with unmeasured
joy, shifted his men until they were fully in touch with those of Rodes, the whole now forming
a great curving line of battle frowning with guns, the troops burning for a new attack. 

By virtue of their ancient superstitions, since these natives out of any saved danger, thrown
to the ground an ear of corn, to give thanks to Providence if any favored with your protection.

SAN-RAMON.

The
mission of this name was founded in 1792 by order of Governor Zamora,
with the surplus Itonama the population of Santa-Maria-Magdalena:
the village, built in imitation of the missions of the Jesuits, without
ornaments, occupies a delightful position, stretching out on a solid
ground, filled with hydrate of iron, and high enough to be always
covered against Machupo River floods, which passes not far from there.

Nearby are some banana plantations, while other parts are grown somewhat
distant, above all, belonging to the Indians, who were coming to the
river rather ITENE.

Industry of this population does not differ at all from Magdalena.

A distance of half a league from the village is a beautiful lake is another of the same nature
two leagues: both have an oblong shape and a diameter more hugs as a league. The fish to be
drawn from them is very exquisite, but the crowd of alligators no longer a great hindrance
to fishing. These ferocious amphibians are also common in the Rio Machupo, but the way of hunting
them is different than we've seen used by Canichana of Mission San-Pedro. The inhabitants of San-Ramon
tie a dog to the river bank, placing before him an open loop, so
the alligator can not get near him without in it, arranged so the
armadijo, hidden a few steps, holding in his hand the other end of
the loop.

A howling dog is soon to appear some caiman, showing first on the water outgoing orbits of his
eyes and the extremity of the muzzle remains certainly some moments in observation, and staring
at its prey, then dives to reappear on the shore, where creeps slowly towards the poor dog
that magnetized by such terrible enemy, there is no movement, sometimes trembling, others in short,
makes the most violent efforts to break the ropes that sugetan, and escape to the grim mouth
opens to swallow. Fortunately, their fears are short [1], because Indians are quick to pull the
rope and dragged to the caiman, stunning tally of being sacked, and even tries to defend himself.
Because you can not turn around, acercánsele the Indians behind, and take away the life of
two or three axes. The regular size of these reptiles is five yards, but in general are provided
to the expanse and breadth of rivers where they dwell. Are never large alligators in the creeks, or
small in large rivers.

The population of San-Ramon, totally Itonama, was composed in 1804, four in 1200 five individuals
in 1808, four thousand fifty-five but a plague of smallpox came to destroy much of it dropping
to just 1984. The people is divided into nine installments as follows: Béchu, Gualano, gouache,
Iaca, Pacasnane, Muchusmo, Morochia, Guacleca and Yaracaca.

In 1830 there were there, eight thousand three hundred head of cattle and 1400 horses, property
of the state. Also collected in this mission, cacao, wax, the sassafras, cotton, and made
them tected in the other counties in the province. His productions gave the State in that year
of 1830, the amount of 1600 ninety-four pesos.

San-Ramon Road to Magdalena.

To go to San-Ramon Magdalena, count five leagues in the direct line towards the east; but as you
have to make many detours, this distance is increased by a third party. In the dry season pass the
extensive plains on horseback, stopping at different points have
been built cabins to house the travelers: they are also, in this way,
several farms established on the beautiful plains that separate the
river Machupo River Itonama.

If you have undertaken this journey, in that season, to lead goods, it is necessary to go on
board, and then the distance is doubled, it is necessary to lower Machupo river to its confluence
with the Itonama, and then climb up the Magdalena, drawing a sharp angle.

During the rainy season this road is abbreviated, canoe through the
flooded plains.

It then down the river about three leagues Machupo, to enter right into a stream, very uncomfortable
for navigation, being trimmed trees, among which is necessary break through with ax in hand
and fighting a very rapid current, but soon the waves are quiet, the creek widens, its steep banks
are cleared of trees, coming from last to form a gap of a quarter of a mile wide and a mile
long. Of elsewhere in this lake, the waters, which remain a moment stops, change direction;
so that instead of further upstream, we follow the natural course of the stream. It meanwhile
warned that the said lake, whose waves are directed from one side to the east, Huarichona toward
the river, and the other west, towards the river Machupo, represents the height separation of those
two areas, provision which is quite remarkable.

Moving path is still four miles down the same stream, first it is quite wide, and will then
tapering more and more, to be trimmed back Ramage, continuing and to go and meet with other arm.
This stream, which has the same name of the river Huarichona, is navigable only during the
rainy season, and empties into the river Itonama, ten leagues below point of reunion with the
new arm indicated, which is necessary to go as two leagues, continuing the journey to Magdalena.
The slopes of the second stream are also trimmed, such as the above, the tree as immediate
one another, difficulty that the boats make their way through the midst of them, especially, being
the water almost to the height of their canopies. Over this stream, it enters a floodplain,
browsing it as two leagues, in which transit is discovered near a forest huts stop the journey
by land. After leaving behind two boscages isolated escentos of flooding, is still rowing across
the plain in the east-southeast direction, until they reached a stream, called Chunanos, laying
low until the first crossroads, crossing two groves near which appears immersed in the water another
hut high for the season dry season. There then go up the other arm to lead again in the plain,
where the poor traveler has to spend a day, exposed to the heat of a scorching sun or to the raging
storms. The general flooding throughout this region the perfect level test of their land and the
total absence of highlights from the various currents: by everywhere but that is not water,
but it often happens that there is not enough to row, then being forced to drag the canoes.
These plains are covered in some Parages large herbs, whose plumes, which come out of the water,
supporting a platoon red formed by ants, which can not live sodre flooded land, are grouped thus,
to wait for two or three months the return of dry, but at the slightest shock such groups often
dispose, scattering ants, when not in water, in of the canoes, which is added to the other discomforts
of traveler sailor.

After the plain, down a stream until he reached the residence of Saint-Charles. Departing of this,
it continues to decrease by the same stream (whose banks are beginning to be covered from there almost
entirely flooded brush), before emptying into the river Itonama. To get Magdalena is necessary
to navigate in another five miles up this river, which lowers with some speed toward the northwest,
crossing a flood plain, bare of trees, to go and meet with the Machupo.

San-Ramon Road to San-Joaquin.

This land transit is eight leagues to the north, and twelve going down the river Machupo whose
flow, tortuous and very deep on all sides, is adorned with beautiful boscages: This river is in considerable
crowd of dolphins. In the dry season through horseback the plain without any difficulty taking
the left bank of river.

SAN-JOAQUIN.

This mission was founded by the Jesuits at the White River and at a distance far removed site it
occupies, in a later period to 1700. In March 1796, under the pretext Baures the Indians,
who composed its population under the scheme administrators, were continually persecuted and
robbed by the Savages, was transferred to where found, ie on a small
platform surrounded by marshes and situated on the banks left a quarter
of a mile of Machupo.

The temporary buildings of the village, which is up by a causeway,
are of simple construction and a single floor.

Otherwise, nothing remarkably this mission, whose industry is not unlike the other missions. Point
San-Joaquin occupied is covered with mineral hydrated iron nuggets. Cultivated fields for the government,
and are a league of people inside a forest embrace a large space of ground where plants grow full
of vigor: banana, candy cane, cocoa, cassava and maize production
are excellent.

Half a league distant the mission is a beautiful lake that is never
dry.

It is also to the northeast, After crossing a swamp than a league wide, dry ground, very remarkable
for the large amount of hydrated iron nuggets that cover the ground and which could make a fat
profit to the establishment of Catalan forges forges or high, forest is populated all its contours.
It is very strange that the Jesuits, so very industrious, have not benefited from these mineral
riches which would have doubled its resources, and since a large drive to the advancement of
those regions. These horizontal layers and to discovered, studying two leagues, always surrounded
by woods, as if nature purpose had been placed next to mine, the means to practice their tillage.

The
vegetation in the vicinity of San Joaquin is wonderful. Are trees in forests and a huge but varied
foliage: distínguense there among the palm fronds and other plants known, some beautiful palms, called
Rosary [1], to serve their coconuts to make accounts rosaries. This palm, whose trunk is smooth and
crowned with large law leaves gracefully arched, is without question one of the most elegant.
The ground is covered everywhere of magnificent ferns, while the branches of the trees hold the stems
grown in a kind of Palma christi, whose fruit is ten times higher than the ordinary kind. Nótanse
also on the edge of the woods two other species of palms, the very high and holds its leaves
in a single line divided to the two sides of the trunk, forming a beautiful green range [2]
and the other thorny [3] leaves similar, though smaller, to the Royal Palm Chiquitos. Something
closer to the mission, a wild fruit is grown the shape of a pear, which only eat when you're black
of ripe, they taste like the loquat, and their seeds are very analogous to those of the pear.

;

The San-Joaquin population in 1823 was composed of seven hundred sixty-six Baures Indians; but the
devastation caused in 1832 by the smallpox and Sarapion, the reduced number of six hundred and ninety
souls. The village consists of five installments, known under the names of Paschiono, Caparebocono,
Tacarano, Abeabano and stumps.

The cattle of the state property amounted in 1830 to three thousand eight hundred and eight
heads, and the horse to three hundred thirty-five. In that year the product of the mission was
six hundred seventy dollars.

San-Joaquin roads to Exaltation.

To go to San-Joaquin San-Pedro, it follows (as stated in speaking of this mission) during Machupo
River through San-Ramon.

To go in the rainy season to Exaltation, which is twenty-seven miles
in a straight line towards the west, it is necessary to cross a plain
canoe cross in all directions for several streams that are routed,
one at River Machupo others to the Mamore.

In dry times it has been traveling the same path to the magnificent horse plains, but for the
conveyance of goods there is no other vehicle than the rivers, and path then extends one hundred
and twenty leagues. They got the first thirty Machupo River to its confluence with the item or
Guaporé; next forty east to its junction with the Mamore, which is
necessary to rise, following his lengthy detours by space of fifty
leagues, to get to Exaltation.

To learn more about these vehicles transport, which are both the most beautiful rapids of
the province, I will describe detail.

San-Joaquin leaving you sail for two days by the Machupo, descending
towards the north-northeast.

The banks of this river are trimmed with very dense forest, which reveal the effect of a active
vegetation. Savage appearance, but varied in these solitudes, not without a certain greatness.
On one side, dark green tint of the forests, the windings multiplied the river, the troops of
monkeys, the many dolphins that travel to two canoes, and the other the multitude of coastal
and terrestrial birds, encourage landscaping making it more interesting. The river, whose width is
one hundred yards, received tributes from a number of creeks help drain the flood plain. At
noon the second day passed by a site where both sides are covered with plantations grown and
belonging to the Indians San-Ramon and San-Joaquin. Machupo along the banks of the river are
quite high over a long space of course, a fact which should encourage the cultivation of its
banks, being therefore strange that is not thought to put less distance missions. A little more
than two in the afternoon, the confluence of the river has Itonama, under whose name continues running
to meet the Machupo Guaporé or ITENE.

Then we discover towards the north above the trees, the western prolongation of the Sierra's Diamond.
From this starting point to show thousands of dolphins playing on the airwaves, and transit Some
leagues, are three beautiful species of palms, which are not found anywhere else Part [1]. At
about five river flows into the Iten, whose confluence would have been very desirable to establish
a population, given the great elevation of the left bank of Itonama, but certainly not this
have given rise to endless discussions between Spanish and Portuguese, on the limits of their
respective possessions, and is already referred to, eager the latter to retain its monopoly of
the navigation of these rivers, the Jesuits espulsaron trying to settle on its banks [2].

Items which the river is a quarter of a mile wide at this point, and its majestic waters fairly
quickly by running between the islands of the most picturesque appearance. On one of his banks,
filled with trees, is a Brazilian place: to go to him, it is necessary to fight upstream from
the rivers Itenes é Itonama, we hit form a barrier force movable, an imposing appearance. The post
is occupied even a sergeant and four soldiers, they have orders not to let any vessel without
the consent of the commander the fort of Beira, which is located two miles below. It is therefore
essential writing advance to the trustee at the request of a pass in front of the fort. Although
the left bank owned any property to the Republic of Bolivia, the Brazilian are considered the
absolute masters of the whole river course. The soldiers guarding the post, They are just clothes,
and live in abject poverty, a handful of farinha pao is the ration given daily for their maintenance,
and every eight days, get some powder cartridges that hunt elk and other wild animals whose meat they
also serve food.

Fort Prince of Beira.

When you have achieved the specified permission, or descends Guaporé Iten, admiring the picturesque
in its margins, and the mountains that dominate its left bank. Two leagues, little more or less,
presents a strong Prince of Beira on which the flag flutters Brazil. This strong, square and surrounded
by moats, it is also a bastion at each flank. Carboniferous sandstone, consisting of the adjacent
mountains, is the material used in its construction, which has been well executed by a European engineer.
His garrison, now reduced to thirty men. It was this strong in its foundation, a prison for
murderers, but today is intended to serve as the condemned political exile, who are deprived
of all kinds of resources in this secluded place where they have yet some ease.

The little town of Santa Rosa, under the strong, and half a league originally was far towards
the west, is placed at this háacia the north and to less distance, being composed single row of
houses, whose inhabitants are all black and mulatto, amounted to
number four.

Dealing with this population to traffic with checkpoints, rising
from Para, on the Madeira River and then by the Guaporé, to Mato Grosso.

These large boats, awnings and flat bottom are the size of a sloop of twenty to thirty tons;
and though in proportion to the depth of the river may have more capacity, no number jumps of
the Madeira River (which are presented whenever sailors forced to withdraw to water to carry
their boats overland with the help of round logs, placed by way of wheels) makes its size is decreased.
Otherwise this is the only difficulty that provides the navigation of this river, which is enough
depth everywhere to serve as a vehicle for steamboats of the largest dimension.

Para Starting up the booths to sail or paddle to the mouth of the Madeira River, then to paddle only
to stumble at the first rapids, which is necessary to save the So I have said, renewing operation
more than twenty times, and in which much is lost time [1].

Having saved the last cachuela you paddle with great work to the confluence of Itenes and Mamore
rivers, and from this point, the fort of Beira, where the food makers to go up at once to Mato Grosso.
Be necessary to use a full year in the first leg and return of these expeditions, it is preferred
by ground lead directly Rio Janeiro Santos or value of merchandises, and although the distance
is traveled by mule is eight hundred leagues, while the economy continues to be considerable,
so that the booths, being reserved solely for the purpose of transporting a lot of volume or weight,
no are but three or four expeditions per year from Pará to Mato Grosso.

Around the fort of Prince of Beira forest villages are spacious, where palm trees stand out:
the hills immediately, placed in an amphitheater, is gradually rise towards the north, coming to be
quite far from its peak. The ground remains entirely composed of sandstone, is barren, and
only some pieces adjacent to the river bank Itenes lend to agriculture
and produce very good results.

On leaving the fort of Beira, the river Itenes or Guaporé [1] is about half a league wide; clear
water, but black sheen, are slowly down through forests and magnificent an savage aspect rather than
picturesque. The nature in this place is too big and majestic for them to understand the details.
Meanwhile, very rarely be disturbed any traveler this beautiful loneliness that holds no more
ornaments than the rich vegetation of dark forests, because even the birds cross only by chance
and without ever stopping. No However, the uniformity of landscaping is occasionally interrupted
by some garrisoned islands trees, and blue mountains on the right bank, highlighting the distance
on dark green background of lush forests.

After having gone a long journey, rowing with all the speed of the current, halts at dusk,
or on the right bank where there is a very dense forest where the ground should be excellent
for farming, or on the left is filled with magnificent forests. The Brazilians attacked the fort
are often very often these Parages by Indians Itenes inhabiting both shores, and exploit every
opportunity to strive for violence, weapons and iron that they are absolutely necessary from
the time of contact with the Spanish and Portuguese.

These savages, an independent and proud, have retained their entire freedom, preferring to be
decimated every day from over a century, rather than submit to the religious zeal of the Jesuits
or the yoke of the Spanish. Today are still what they were in the time of discovery, and its conservation
should independence to the close union that seems to reign among them.

This nation occupies all the angle formed by the confluence of the rivers Itenes and Mamore.
The tribes who live scattered component within a desert surrounded by huge impenetrable swamps and jungles.
These Indians, whose customs are extremely unique, just ignore the middle civilization around
them, so clever and covertly slip their canoes in small tributaries
of the Mamore and Iten, where the Indians lurk mission or the soldiers
of Fort Brazilian Beira, attacking the neglect, many times for the
shadows of the night, another attempt to procure the few tools.

On the second day, you see the river as wide and beautiful as the day before, but much more tortuous
and almost entirely rid of islets is seen among both trimmed its left bank palm palm fronds,
whereas on the right comes from too many trees varied, a new species of palms, known as the
Indian chuco and most remarkable for its leaves, whose figure is equal to that of a sun, it
is composed of numerous leaflets it like a lightning start from a central point to which they are
sugetas [1].

Upon arriving at the angle formed by the reunion of the Mamore Itenes, a spectacle more impressive
is presented to the eye, which embrace one stroke both the majestic
swing currents can easily compare and admire the wonderful contrast
[1].

The river Iten, which, as already stated, receives all the waters of the province of Mato Grosso and
northern and north-west of Chiquitos, and whose tax, dropping from some high hills, are gently
by a vast area of ​​plains, which have strong embankments, it retains its waves almost always
pure and never carries plant offal; to step the Mamore, not only remains murky and muddy throughout
the year, but carries bubbling trunks, leaves, roots, and sometimes
whole trees, therefore, to have more of their resources on the high
cerranías provinces of Cochabamba, Mizque and Valle Grande, or on
the north side of the last slopes of the mountain, all its tributaries
are formed and cross the raging torrents plain with such rapidity
that start passing along the banks of one of its edges.

  Weren't some orders sent along the line
a little while ago?"

"Yes, the older men took 'em.  What time is it, George?"

"Four o'clock."  Then he closed his watch with a snap, and added:

"The battle has begun."

The heavy report of a cannon came from the Southern right under Longstreet.  It sped up the
valleys and returned in sinister echoes. It was succeeded by silence for a moment, and then
the whole earth shook beneath a mighty shock.  All the batteries along the Southern line opened,
pouring a tremendous volume of fire upon the whole Northern position.

The young officers leaped to their feet.  A volcano had burst.  The Union batteries were replying,
and the front of both armies blazed with fire.  The smoke hung high and Harry and Dalton could
see in the valley beneath it.  They caught the gleam of bayonets and saw the troops of Longstreet
advancing in heavy masses to the assault of the slope where the peach trees grew, now known
as the Peach Orchard.  Here stood the New Yorkers who had been thrust forward under Sickles,
a rough politician, but brave and in many respects capable.  There was some confusion among
them as they awaited the Confederates, Sickles, it is charged, having gone too far in his zeal,
and then endeavoring to fall back when it was too late.  But the men under him were firm. 
On this field the two great states of New York and Pennsylvania, through the number of troops
they furnished for it, bore the brunt of the battle.

Harry and Dalton, crouched down in order that they might see better under the smoke, watched
the thrilling and terrible spectacle.  The Southern vanguard was made up of Texans, tall, strong,
tanned men, led by the impetuous Hood, and shouting the fierce Southern war cry they rushed
straight at the corps of Sickles.  The artillery and rifle fire swept through their ranks,
but they did not falter.  Many fell, but the others rushed on, and Harry, although unconscious
of it, began to shout as he saw them cross a little stream and charge with all their might
against the enemy.

The combat was stubborn and furious.  The men of Sickles redoubled their efforts.  At some
points their line was driven in and the Texans sought to take their artillery, but at others
they held fast and even threatened the Southern flank.  They knew, too, that reinforcements
were promised to them and they encouraged one another by saying they were already in sight.

Harry could not turn his eyes away from this struggle, much of which was hidden in the smoke,
and all of which was confused.  The cannon of Hill and Ewell were thundering elsewhere, but
here was the crucial point. The Round Tops rose on one side of the combatants.  Round Top itself
seemed too lofty and steep for troops, but Little Round Top, accessible to both men and cannon,
would dominate the field, and he believed that Hood, as soon as his men crushed Sickles, would
whirl about and seize it.  But he could not yet tell whether fortune favored the Blue or the Gray.

The generals from both sides watched the struggle with intense anxiety and hurried forward
fresh troops.  Woods and rocks and slopes helped the defense, but the attack was made with
superior numbers.  Longstreet himself was directing the action and a part of Hill's men were
coming up to his aid.  Sedgwick and Sykes, able generals, were rushing to help Sickles.  The
whole combat was beginning to concentrate about the furious struggle for the Peach Orchard
and Little Round Top.

Hood, in all the height of the struggle, saw the value of Little Round Top and tried his utmost
to seize it.  Again the Northern generals were to show that they had learned how to see what
should be done and to do it at once.  Little Round Top rose up, dominant over the whole field,
a prize of value beyond all computation.  Just then it was the most valuable hill in all the world.

A Northern general, Warren, the chief engineer of the army, had seen the value of Little Round
Top as quickly as Hood.  The signalmen were about to leave, but he made them stay.  An entire
brigade, hurrying to the battle, was passing the slope, when Warren literally seized upon them
by force of command and rushed the men and their cannon to the crest.

Hood's soldiers were already climbing the slopes, when the fire of the brigade, shell and bullets,
struck almost in their faces.  Harry, watching through his glasses, saw them reel back and
then go on again, firing their own rifles as they climbed over the rocky sides of Little Round
Top.  Again that fierce volley assailed them, crashing through their ranks, and again they
went on into the flame and the smoke.

Harry saw the battle raging around the crest of Little Round Top. Then he uttered a cry of
despair.  The Southerners, with their ranks thin--woefully thin--were falling back slowly and
sullenly.  They had done all that soldiers could do, but the commanding towers of Little Round
Top remained in Union hands, and the Union generals were soon crowding it with artillery that
could sweep every point in the field below.

But Sickles himself was not faring so well.  His men, fighting for every inch of ground about
the Peach Orchard, were slowly driven back. Sickles himself fell, a leg shattered, and walked
on one leg for more than fifty years afterwards.  Hood, his immediate opponent, also fell,
losing an arm then and a leg later at Chickamauga, but Longstreet still pushed the attack,
and the Northern generals who had stood around Sickles resisted with the stubbornness of men
who meant to succeed or die.

Early in the battle Harry had seen General Lee walk forward to a point in the center of his
line and sit down on a smooth stump.  There he sat a long time, apparently impassive.  Harry
sometimes took his eyes away from the combat for the Peach Orchard and Little Round Top to
watch his commander-in-chief.  But the general never showed emotion.  Now and then General
Hill or his military secretary, General Long, came to him and they would talk a little together,
but they made no gestures.  Lee would rise when the generals came, but when they left he would
resume his place on the stump and watch the struggle through his glasses. Throughout the whole
battle of that day he sent a single order and received but one message.  He had given his orders
before the advance, and he left the rest to his lieutenants.

"I wish I could be as calm as he is," said Harry.

"I'll risk saying that he isn't calm inside," said Dalton.  "How could any man be at such a time?"

"You're right.  Duck!  Here comes a shell!"

But the shell fell short and exploded on the slope.

"Now listen, will you!" exclaimed Harry.  "That's the spirit!"

Immediately after the shell burst a Southern band began to play. And it played the merriest
music, waltzes and polkas and all kinds of dances.  Harry felt his feet move to the tunes,
while the battle below, at its very height, roared and thundered.

But he promptly forgot the musicians as he watched the battle.  He knew that the Invincibles
were somewhere in that volcano of fire and smoke, and it was almost too much to hope that they
would again come unhurt out of such a furious conflict.  But they, too, passed quickly from
his mind.  The struggle would let nothing else remain there long.

He saw that the Union troops were still in the Peach Orchard and that they were pouring a deadly
fire also from Little Round Top.  Hancock had come to take the place of Sickles, and he was
drawing every man he could to his support.  The afternoon was waning, but the battle was still
at its height.  Men were falling by thousands, and generals, colonels, majors, officers of
all kinds were falling with them.  The Southerners had not encountered such resistance in any
other great battle, and the ground, moreover, was against them.

Yet the grim fighter, Longstreet, never ceased to push on his brigades. The combat was now
often face to face, and sharpshooters, hidden in every angle and hollow of the earth, picked
off men by hundreds. The great rocky mass known as the Devil's Den was filled with Northern
sharpshooters and for a long time they stung the Southern flank terribly, until a Southern
battery, noticing whence the deadly stream of bullets issued, sprayed it with grape and canister
until most of the sharpshooters were killed, while those who survived fled like wolves from
their lairs.

The day was now passing, but Harry could see no decrease in the fury of the battle. Seeming
lack of light coming through the transom of a large window, opened leaves decayed wood, devoid
of glass. Then he raised the hangings of red damask gold braid covering a broad tent the majestic
bed in they were born, begotten and killed several generations of Febrer.

The night before, to withdraw from the Casino, had charged James with great insistence that I
woke early. I was invited to lunch at Valldemossa. "Arriba!" The morning was of the best spring
in the garden of the house screaming the chorus of birds on flowering branches, swaying in
the breeze that sent the nearby sea over the wall.

The maid was on his way to the kitchen, seeing that Mr. was decided at last to lie outside of the
bed. Jaime Febrer went almost naked through the room, before the open window, starting by a thin
column. There was no fear of being seen. The house across the street was a palace old as yours,
a big house a few holes. Outside his window lay a Wall undefined color, with deep peeling and
remains of old paintings, but so close by the narrowness of the street,
which seemed to be touched by hand.

He had stayed late, restless and nervous about the importance of the act to be undertaken the
next morning, and numbness of a short sleep and made him look ineffective avidly the comforting
caress of cold water. When washed in a basin student narrow poor, Febrer made a gesture of
sorrow. "Ah, misery !...» He lacked the most rudimentary amenities that a luxury manor house
and ancient than modern rich could not improvise.

Poverty arose before its passage, with all its discomfort, in these halls that were reminiscent
of the splendid scenery of certain theaters seen in his travels through Europe.

As if a stranger entered the first time in his bedroom, Febrer admired this piece, grand and
high ceiling. His powerful grandparents had built for giants. Each room of the palace was as large
as a modern home. The windows had no glass, like the other holes in the building, and in winter
we had to keep all the leaves closed, no light coming through the studs, covered with cracked
glass and opaque with age. Lack of carpets laid bare stone pavement Mallorca soft sandstone,
cut into thin rectangles, as if it were wood. Roofs still wore the old splendor of the woodwork,
some obscure, of contrived couplings, others with a matte gold that brought out the venerable colored
barracks weapons of the house. The towering walls, whitewashed simply disappear into pieces
under rows of antique paintings and other behind the rich hangings of bright colors that time
could not extinguish. The bedroom was decorated with eight large tapestries of tone dry leaf green,
representing gardens, broad avenues of autumn trees, with a square terminal where the deer bounded
about dripping solitary or triple bowls sources. Top hung door old Italian paintings of a soft
caramel: children meat Amber played with kinky lambs. The arch dividing the real bedroom rest
of the room was something triumphant, with fluted columns supporting half point cut foliage,
all in a pale gold and discreet, as if it were an altar. On a eighteenth-century table stood
a polychrome image of St. George on his horse trampling on Moors; and beyond the bed, the bed
imposing, venerable monument of the family. Some chairs old, of bowed arms, with red velvet
and worn bald to show the whiteness of the plot, mingled with wicker chairs, and poor bathroom.
"Ah, misery!", Think again the estate. The old house of Febrer, with its beautiful windows devoid
of glass its rooms filled with tapestries and no carpets, furniture confused with the more venerable
shabby furniture, it seemed like a spoiled prince flaunting brilliant robe and crown still glorious,
but barefoot and linen.

He was equal to the palace, stunning, empty shell that had once saved the glory and richness
of their grandparents. Some had been merchants, other soldiers, and all sailors.

Febrer weapons were flown in streamers and flags on more than fifty ships of topsail - the best
of Mallorca Marine - which, after taking orders in Puerto Pi, were to sell oil on the island
in Alexandria, shipped spices, silks and perfumes of the Orient on the scales of Asia Minor,
traded with Venice, Pisa and Genoa, or from the Columns Hercules, sumíanse in the mists of the
North Sea to carry Flanders and the Republics Hanseatic the pottery of the Moors in Valencia, called
by foreigners majolica, because of Majorcan origin.

This continuous navigation through pirate-infested seas had made the family wealthy merchants
of a tribe of brave soldiers. Febrer had fought the alliances or adjusted with Turkish pirates, Greeks,
and Algeria, had escorted their fleets by the North Sea to deal with the English pirates, and
even once, at the entrance of the Bosphorus, their galleys had been addressed to Genoa, which monopolized
trade of Byzantium. Then, this dynasty soldiers of the sea, to withdraw from commercial shipping,
he paid tribute blood the safety of the Christian kingdoms and the Catholic faith by joining
a portion of their children in the holy militia of the Knights of Malta.

The second children's home Febrer, while receiving the water of baptism, had their diapers sewn white
cross of eight points, symbol of the eight Beatitudes, and to be men captained warlike galleys
of the Order and ended his days as a wealthy commanders Malta, recounting their deeds to the children
of her nieces and care for ailments and injuries becoming by infidel slaves living with them, despite
the vow of chastity. Famous monarchs, passing through Mallorca, had left the palace of the
Almudaina to visit Febrer in his palace. Some had been admirals of the fleet of the king,
others distant rulers territories, some sleeping the eternal sleep in the cathedral of La Valette
with other illustrious Mallorca, and Jaime had seen their graves in a visit to Malta.

La Lonja de Palma, elegant Gothic building nearby the sea, had been for centuries a fief of their
ancestors. For Febrer was all thrown away in the galley dock high castle, the cogs of heavy hull,
light whips, the Saetia, Panfilo Rampino, Tafur and other models of the time, and in the vast hall
of columns of the Market, along Solomonic the shafts that were lost in the shadows of the vaults,
grandparents received sailors as kings of the East, who arrived with wide breeches and scarlet
cap, Genoese employers and Provence, with his cape topped by monkish cowl, to brave captains of
the island, covered with the red beret Catalan. Merchants Venice sent their friends Mallorca
petite ebony furniture inlaid with ivory and lapis lazuli or blue moon large mirrors and lens
frame. Sailors back Africa brought bunches of ostrich feathers, ivory tusks, and these treasures
and other going to decorate the rooms of the house, fragrant essences mysterious gift of correspondents
Asian.

The Febrer had been for centuries the middlemen between East and West,
making Mallorca a tank of exotic products, which then spilled his
ships in Spain, France and the Netherlands.

The fabulously rich flocked to the house. In some instances, Febrer even made loans to kings
... But this could not stop James, the last of the family, after losing in the Casino last night,
everything he owned - a hundred pesetas - had accepted money to go to the morning after Valldemosa
Toni Clapp, the smuggler, tough guy, understanding awake, and the most loyal and disinterested
friends.

While combing, Jaime contemplated in an antique mirror, cracked and hazy moon. Thirty and six
years could not complain about their appearance.

It was ugly, with an ugliness 'great' to quote a woman who had exerted some influence on his life.

This
ugliness had given him some satisfaction loving. Miss Mary Gordon, blonde idealistic daughter of an
English governor of an island in Oceania, traveling in Europe no
other accompaniment than a domestic, she had met one summer at a hotel
Munich, and she was that impressed, took the first steps.

Spanish was, according to the miss, a vivid portrait of young Wagner. And Febrer, smiling at
the fond memory drives, watching its bulging forehead, which seemed to push with his grief
compelling eyes, small and ironic, shaded by thick eyebrows. The nose was high and aquiline
nose of all Febrer birds of prey brave the wilds of the sea and steeped disdainful mouth, the chin
Outgoing and covered by soft vegetation, sparse and thin beard and mustache. "Ah, delicious Miss
Mary! "Nearly a year had gone on pilgrimage in Europe cheerful. She madly in love with him for his
resemblance to the teacher, wanted to marry, and spoke of the millions the governor, mixing
romantic enthusiasms to hobbies practices of their race. But eventually Febrer flee before
the British let him turn for some conductor that is closer to their idol.

"Oh, women !...» And Jaime stood tough male body, slightly stooped back by excessive height.
He had long since given up interest in them. A light gray in the beard and a slight puckering
of the skin at the corners of the eyes revealed fatigue of an existence that had gone, as he
said, "at full speed."

But even so, I sought, and it was love that was going to get their plight.

At the end of the arrangement of his person, left the room. Crossed a vast hall lit by the sun's rays
passing through the uprights of three windows closed. The ground was in the shadows, while
the walls glowed like a garden of colorful, endless tapestries covered
with natural-size figures.

Mythological scenes were and biblical; ladies arrogant, swollen flesh pink, appearing before
warriors red or green, huge colonnades, palaces with garlands of flowers, scimitars raised,
heads on the floor, big-bellied horse herds with a leg up: a world of old legends, but with
fresh ink despite the centuries, and between bands of apples and litter.

Febrer eyes looked ironic passing this wealth inherited from their ancestors. Nothing was yours.
For more than a year these rugs and bedroom and all the home belonged Palma certain usurers,
who had left hanging in the same place. Awaited arrival of a rich amateur, who would pay more
splendor to imagine them acquired directly from the owner.

Jaime was just a receiver, threatened with jail if of infidelity in their custody.

Upon arrival at the center of the room took a little detour, driven by custom, but began to
laugh seeing that there was nothing to interrupt its passage. A month earlier there was still
a precious Italian marble table that had brought the famous Commander Don Priam Febrer one of
his expeditions in corso.

Beyond there was nothing ever made him stumble. A huge brazier embossed silver, mounted on
a platform of the same metal, with a circular row the elves who held this monument had become
Febrer money, selling weight. And the brazier reminded him a golden chain, the Emperor Charles
V to a of their ancestors, who years earlier had sold in Madrid, also the weight, with the addition
two ounces of gold received by the artistic work and seniority. Reached after vaguely to him the
news that the chain was sold in Paris by a hundred thousand francs. "Ah, misery!" The knights
could no longer live in these times.

His views met with enormous brightness vargueños mounted Venetian labor antique tables supported
by lions. They seemed made for giants, with countless deep drawers, whose outer surface had
polychrome enamel depicting scenes mythological.

There were four magnificent museum pieces: a reminder of the ancient magnificence of the house.
Nor were his. Had suffered the same fate as the carpets, and there were waiting for a buyer.
Febrer was no longer the custodian of your own home. And also belonged creditors the Italian
and Spanish paintings that adorned the walls of two cabinets immediate, antique furniture with
silk shaved or broken, but beautiful carvings, all in short, which retained some value in the
wreckage of the secular legacy.

Went to the reception room, vast room in the center of the building, cold and high roof, communicating
with the staircase. The white walls over the years had taken a tone
yellow ivory.

Was necessary to throw his head back to meet with the black eye coffered ceiling. Open windows
helped along the ledge below the windows to illuminate this immense and austere living. Furniture,
few and convent: large armchairs arms, seats and backs of cowhide decorated nails twisted oak
tables legs, dark boxes, with rusty hinges on funds moth-eaten green cloth. Whiteness yellowing
of the walls was visible only as a lattice lines between rows of paintings, many of them unframed.

There
were hundreds of pictures, bad and interesting all at once; paintings commissioned to perpetuate
the glories of the family, made by old Italian and Spanish artists step in Mallorca. Traditional
charm of these paintings seemed to emanate. Mediterranean history was written by clumsy and
naive brushes: meetings of galleys, assaults of fortresses, big battles
Naval enveloped in smoke, on which tufts floating streamers of vessels
and aft towers, atop which rizábanse the flags with the cross of Malta
or the crescent. The men fought on the decks of ships or floating
skiffs with them, the sea red with blood and flames of the boats,
was tinged with hundreds of heads of shipwrecks, which in turn fought
the waves.

A mass of helmets and slouch hat clashed on two ships clinging, with another white and red turbans,
and they alzábanse Claymore and spears, scimitars and axes of approach. The firing of cannons and
trebuchets cut with red tongues smoke of battle. In other paintings could be seen no less dark castle
flame throwing their pockets, and at the foot of these warriors with the white cross of eight
points on the shell, nearly as big as towers, and applying them to increase their scale the
assault.

The tables had white sign on the side with the same auction folded shield weapons, and in them, written
in faulty case, the story of the event: meetings victorious with galleys of the Grand Turk or pirates
Pisa, Genoa and Vizcaya; wars in Sardinia Spark and assaults Tedeliz and in all these companies was
a Febrer which led to combatants and became noted for his heroism, towering above all the commander
Don Priam devilish hero, mocking and some religious, who had been the glory and shame of the
house.

Alternating with these scenes were warlike family portraits.

In the most high, playing to a row of old paintings of evangelists and martyrs, which formed
a frieze Febrer showed themselves the most ancient, venerable merchants painted several centuries Mallorca
after his death, serious men of Jewish nose and sharp eyes, with jewels on the chest and top
hats oriental appearance. Then came the men of arms, sailors sword, with close-cropped hair
and the profile of a bird of prey, all wearing armor of black steel and some with the white cross
of Malta. Portrait in the portrait, the faces were refined without
losing the bulging forehead and nose pressing family.

Neck shirt, wide, floppy and gross tissue, was elevated by the meandering starched the curly
ruff, the shell became a doublet of velvet or silk, tough beards and wide, in the style of Emperor,
trocábanse in acute steep knobs and whiskers, the Frame serving soft locks.

Among the rough men of war and elegant gentlemen stood out black habits certain church with mustaches
and chins, boasting high bonnets tassel. Some were Malta ecclesiastical dignitaries, judging
by the white badge that adorned his chest; others, venerable inquisitors Mallorca, according
to legend, praised his zeal towards faith. After all these gentlemen black, imposing and hard
eyes gesture came the parade white wig, childish face for shaving, with bright gold silk jackets
adorned bands and decorations. Perpetual rulers were the city of Palma, whose Marquis Marquis
had lost the family with double junctions, going to melt titles with others of the nobility
of the Peninsula, governors, captains-general and viceroys of countries
American and Oceanian whose names awaken a vision of great wealth;
enthusiasts botiflers supporters of Philip V, who had to flee from
Mallorca, rearward support Habsburg, and occupied as a supreme title
of nobility nickname given by sausages hostile mob.

Closing the glorious parade, almost flush with the furniture, were the last Febrer early nineteenth
century, officials of the Navy, short pin curls on the front, high collar with anchors of gold
and black tie, who had fought at Cape St. Vincent and Trafalgar; and behind them the great-grandfather
of Jaime, an old man with hard eyes and mouth disdainfully, that on returning Fernando VII from captivity
in France had embarked to bow at his feet Valencia, asking with other great lords that restored
the ancient customs and exterminate the rising scourge of liberalism. He was a prolific patriarch,
who had lavished their blood in several districts of the island in pursuit of the peasant, without
losing any of its gravity, And giving to kiss the hand of some of the legitimate children living
at home and had his surname, said in a solemn voice: "God make you a good inquisitor!"

These portraits of the illustrious Febrer some women could be seen.

Ladies were swollen farthingales that filled the entire canvas, the same as the ladies painted by
Velázquez. A his bust emerging fragile velvet bell flowered skirts, with pointed face pale and
colorless in the loop and short curly melenillas was notable female family, who had called the 'Greca'
for his wisdom in letters Hellenic. His uncle, Febrer Espiridión fray, prior of Santo Domingo,
great luminary of the time, had been his teacher, and 'Greca' could write in their language
correspondents East that still maintained Mallorca with a dull trade.

Jaime was with his views beyond some paintings - depicting the step distance a century - another
famous female portrait of the family. It was a white girl peluquíta, dressed woman, with pleated
skirt and big recessed the ladies of the eighteenth century.

She was standing at a table beside a vase of flowers, and held the lifeless right hand a rose like
a tomato, with little eyes looking at her wrist porcelanescos. In this the had called "the
America." The mounting of the portrait spoke in the stilted style of the time its discretion and science,
ending with mourn his death at age eleven. Females were suckers dry as vigorous trunk of Febrer,
fighters and lush. Wisdom soon withered in this family of sailors and warriors, such as plant
stems by mistake in an adverse climate.

Concerned about his thoughts of the previous night and the next trip
to Valldemossa, Jaime stopped in the hall staring at the portraits
of his ancestors.

What glory ... and how much dust! Twenty years ago perhaps a merciful cloth had not been traced
along the illustrious family to tidy up a bit. Grandparents most remote and battles famous were
covered with cobwebs. And to think that the lenders had not wanted to acquire This museum of glory,
with the pretext that they were bad paintings! Unable to pass these Certain memories eager
to create a rich illustrious origin! ...

Jaime went through the reception, entering the rooms of the opposite wing. Pieces were lower ceiling,
had a second floor above, occupied at one time by the grandfather of Febrer; relatively modern
rooms with old furniture in the Empire style and the walls bright prints of the Romantic period representing
the misadventures of Atala, loves Matilda and achievements of Hernán
Cortés.

Bellied comfortable could be seen on polychrome saints and ivory crucifixes, among dusty artificial
flowers under cloches. A panoply crossbows, arrows and knives resembled a Febrer, lieutenant
commander of the king, who made a trip around the world in the late eighteenth century. Purple
shells, sea shells huge with depths of pearl, adorned the tables.

Following a runner on his way to the kitchen, put down the chapel, which was closed many years,
and another file gate, vast room whose windows overlooked the garden
and where Jaime had gone, back from his travels, many afternoons,
stirring saved bundles after the dilapidated trellis wire shelves.

Went to the kitchen, huge dependence which were prepared at one time the famous banquets of
the Febrer, surrounded by parasites and generous to all the friends who came to the island.
  But we can't expect always to gain victories."

Beholding such greatness of soul, Harry regained his own composure. He rejoined Dalton, and
soon they saw the Southern army reform its lines, and turn a bristling front to the enemy.
The Northern cannon were still flashing and thundering, but the Northern army made no return
attack. Gettysburg, in all respects the greatest battle ever fought on the American continent,
was over, and fifty thousand men had fallen.

The sun set, and Harry at last sank on the ground overpowered.  The next day the two armies
stood on their hills looking at each other, but neither cared to renew the battle after such
frightful losses.  That afternoon a fearful storm of thunder, lightning and rain burst over
the field.  It seemed to Harry an echo of the real battle of the day before.

That night Lee, having gathered up his wounded, his guns and his wagons, began his retreat
toward the South.  His army had lost, but it was still in perfect order, willing, even anxious
to fight again.  The wagons containing the wounded and the stores stretched for many miles,
moving along in the rain, and the cavalry rode on their flanks to protect them.

It was not until the next morning that Harry discovered anything of the Invincibles.  In the
dawn he saw a covered wagon by the side of which rode an officer, much neater in appearance
than the others.  He knew at once that it was St. Clair and he galloped forward with a joyous
shout.

"Arthur!  Arthur!" he cried.

St. Clair turned a pale face that lighted up at the sight of his friend.

"Thank God, you're alive, Harry!" he said, as their hands clasped. Don Jacinto, leaving the vestry, went through the temple. She saw him and went before him and
I waited at the door, among many beggars asking for alms. The clean pale mate his face was a
sovereign charm and black large eyes shone like two suns in mourning.

I was so distracted by the flamboyant Marquis that she did not notice
until going to happen touched the shoulder.

Viola and stood as scarlet red.

- Ungrateful - said it - I waited here to make sure that I have forgotten all and to ask alms of
a look and please and honor that you may please tell me yet.

- I'm
married - he said, and the tone in which he uttered those words, he
showed fear that someone saw her.

Don Jacinto, however, was more mundane and less timid than singles. It seems, and she I suddenly suspected
that D. Jacinto had almost dismissed his prudishness, achieved and to principal who had moved
to have it. Maria Antonia, for the first time after his conversation and missed his conversion,
then a look at him long, fiery, sweet and full of promises.

Then his face closer to him, to the point that entered his mouth
and by his nostrils the breath of it, "she said softly and with a
faint sweetness:

- Come home at night.

No one will see you and do not know anyone.

Maria Antonia then turned his back and walked away from that site.

V

Surfaced finery and jewels were kept in the bottom of the chest.

Maria Antonia did not appear and the penitent. She was dressed, fed lightly clothed, and in
the night temptation and dinner. Had turned their backs on God and given back to the devil. Was scented
their stay, and looked gorgeous in her mind of her former lovers
and the luxury of silverware.

Don Jacinto did not fail to attend
the event. It was already another man. Had discarded the mask mysticism.
To the memory of the ugliness and stupidity of his consort stimulated
a lightweight desire. To excuse their ingratitude, fell from his lips
choppy sentences.
    (whether 'tis a word or not, the variant with double-"l" occurs 3
     times in this book, the single-"l" variant only once)

 chapter 10
  - page 272, para 2, changed "fulness" to "fullness"
  - page 273, para 1, fixed typo "marvellous"
  - page 282, end of para 2, changed "division" to "divisions"

 chapter 11
  - page 295, para 3, fixed typo "dextrously"

 chapter 13
  - page 347, para 4, fixed typo "occurrred"
  - page 351, para 4, fixed typo "wofully"
  - page 358, para 9, added a missing close-quote
  - page 359, para 1, changed "You" to "Your"

