"Mind you," the Colonial said at last, "I don't say that in this case the Captain was to blame;
Halket made an awful ass of himself. He's never been quite right since that time he got lost
and spent the night out on the kopje. When we found him in the morning he was in a kind of
dead sleep; we couldn't wake him; yet it wasn't cold enough for him to have been frozen. He's
never been the same man since; queer, you know; giving his rations away to the coloured boys,
and letting the other fellows have his dot of brandy at night; and keeping himself sort of
apart to himself, you know. The other fellows think he's got a touch of fever on, caught wandering
about in the long grass that day. But I don't think it's that; I think it's being alone in
the veld that's got hold of him. Man, have you ever been out like that, alone in the veld,
night and day, and not a soul to speak to? I have; and I tell you, if I'd been left there three
days longer I'd have gone mad or turned religious. Man, it's the nights, with the stars up
above you, and the dead still all around. And you think, and think, and think! You remember
all kinds of things you've never thought of for years and years. I used to talk to myself at
last, and make believe it was another man. I was out seven days: and he was only out one night.
But I think it's the loneliness that got hold of him. Man, those stars are awful; and that
stillness that comes toward morning!" He stood up. "It's a great pity, because he's as good
a fellow as ever was. But perhaps he'll come all right."

He walked away towards the pot with the bird in his hand. When he had gone the Englishman turned
round on to his back, and lay with his arm across his forehead.

High, high up, between the straggling branches of the tree, in the clear, blue African sky
above him, he could see the vultures flying southward.

*****

That evening the men sat eating their suppers round the fires. The large troop had not come
up; and the mules had been brought in; and they were to make a start early the next morning.

Halket was released from his duty, and had come up, and lain down a little in the background
of the group who gathered round their fire.

The Colonial and the Englishman had given orders to all the men of their mess that Halket was
to be left in quiet, and no questions were to be asked him; and the men, fearing the Colonial's
size and the Englishman's nerve, left him in peace. The men laughed and chatted round the fire,
while the big Colonial ladled out the mealies and rice into tin plates, and passed them round
to the men. Presently he passed one to Halket, who lay half behind him leaning on his elbow.
For a while Halket ate nothing, then he took a few mouthfuls; and again lay on his elbow.

"You are eating nothing, Halket," said the Englishman, cheerily, looking back.

"I am not hungry now," he said. After a while he took out his red handkerchief, and emptied
carefully into it the contents of the plate; and tied it up into a bundle. He set it beside
him on the ground, and again lay on his elbow.

"You won't come nearer to the fire, Halket?' asked the Englishman.

"No, thank you, the night is warm."

After a while Peter Halket took out from his belt a small hunting knife with a rough wooden
handle. A small flat stone lay near him, and he passed the blade slowly up and down on it,
now and then taking it up, and feeling the edge with his finger. After a while he put it back
in his belt, and rose slowly, taking up his small bundle and walked away to the tent.

"He's had a pretty stiff day," said the Colonial. "I expect he's glad enough to turn in."

Then all the men round the fire chatted freely over his concerns. Would the Captain stick to
his word tomorrow? Was Halket going to do it? Had the Captain any right to tell one man off
for the work, instead of letting them fire a volley? One man said he would do it gladly in
Halket's place, if told off; why had he made such a fool of himself? So they chatted till nine
o'clock, when the Englishman and Colonial left to turn in. They found Halket asleep, close
to the side of the tent, with his face turned to the canvas. And they lay down quietly that
they might not disturb him.

At ten o'clock all the camp was asleep, excepting the two men told off to keep guard; who paced
from one end of the camp to the other to keep themselves awake; or stood chatting by the large
fire, which still burnt at one end.

In the Captain's tent a light was kept burning all night, which shone through the thin canvas
sides, and shed light on the ground about; but, for the rest, the camp was dead and still.

By half-past one the moon had gone down, and there was left only a blaze of stars in the great
African sky.

Then Peter Halket rose up; softly he lifted the canvas and crept out. On the side furthest
from the camp he stood upright. On his arm was tied his red handkerchief with its contents.
For a moment he glanced up at the galaxy of stars over him; then he stepped into the long grass,
and made his way in a direction opposite to that in which the camp lay. But after a short while
he turned, and made his way down into the river bed. He walked in it for a while. Then after
a time he sat down upon the bank and took off his heavy boots and threw them into the grass
at the side. Then softly, on tip-toe, he followed the little footpath that the men had trodden
going down to the river for water. It led straight up to the Captain's tent, and the little
flat-topped tree, with its white stem, and its two gnarled branches spread out on either side.
When he was within forty paces of it, he paused. Far over the other side of the camp the two
men who were on guard stood chatting by the fire. A dead stillness was over the rest of the
camp. The light through the walls of the Captain's tent made all clear at the stem of the little
tree; but there was no sound of movement within.

For a moment Peter Halket stood motionless; then he walked up to the tree. The black man hung
against the white stem, so closely bound to it that they seemed one. His hands were tied to
his sides, and his head drooped on his breast. His eyes were closed; and his limbs, which had
once been those of a powerful man, had fallen away, making the joints stand out. The wool on
his head was wild and thick with neglect, and stood out roughly in long strands; and his skin
was rough with want and exposure.

The riems had cut a little into his ankles; and a small flow of blood had made the ground below
his feet dark.

Peter Halket looked up at him; the man seemed dead. He touched him softly on the arm, then
shook it slightly.

The man opened his eyes slowly, without raising his head; and looked at Peter from under his
weary eyebrows. Except that they moved they might have been the eyes of a dead thing.

Peter put up his fingers to his own lips--"Hus-h! hus-h!" he said.

The man hung torpid, still looking at Peter.

Quickly Peter Halket knelt down and took the knife from his belt. In an instant the riems that
bound the feet were cut through; in another he had cut the riems from the waist and neck: the
riems dropped to the ground from the arms, and the man stood free. Like a dazed dumb creature,
he stood, with his head still down, eyeing Peter.

Instantly Peter slipped the red bundle from his arm into the man's passive hand.

"Ari-tsemaia! Hamba! Loop! Go!" whispered Peter Halket; using a word from each African language
he knew. But the black man still stood motionless, looking at him as one paralysed.

"Hamba! Sucka! Go!" he whispered, motioning his hand.

In an instant a gleam of intelligence shot across the face; then a wild transport. Without
a word, without a sound, as the tiger leaps when the wild dogs are on it, with one long, smooth
spring, as though unwounded and unhurt, he turned and disappeared into the grass. It closed
behind him; but as he went the twigs and leaves cracked under his tread.

The Captain threw back the door of his tent. "Who is there?" he cried.

Peter Halket stood below the tree with the knife in his hand.

The noise roused the whole camp: the men on guard came running; guns were fired: and the half-sleeping
men came rushing, grasping their weapons. There was a sound of firing at the little tree; and
the cry went round the camp, "The Mashonas are releasing the spy!"

When the men got to the Captain's tent, they saw that the nigger was gone; and Peter Halket
was lying on his face at the foot of the tree; with his head turned towards the Captain's door.

There was a wild confusion of voices. "How many were there?" "Where have they gone to now?"
"They've shot Peter Halket!"--"The Captain saw them do it"--"Stand ready, they may come back
any time!"

When the Englishman came, the other men, who knew he had been a medical student, made way for
him. He knelt down by Peter Halket.

"He's dead," he said, quietly.

When they had turned him over, the Colonial knelt down on the other side, with a little hand-lamp
in his hand.

"What are you fellows fooling about here for?" cried the Captain. "Do you suppose it's any
use looking for foot marks after all this tramping! Go, guard the camp on all sides!"

"I will send four coloured boys," he said to the Englishman and the Colonial, "to dig the grave.
You'd better bury him at once; there's no use waiting. We start first thing in the morning."

When they were alone, the Englishman uncovered Peter Halket's breast. There was one small wound
just under the left bosom; and one on the crown of the head; which must have been made after
he had fallen down.

"Strange, isn't it, what he can have been doing here?" said the Colonial; "a small wound, isn't
it?"

"A pistol shot," said the Englishman, closing the bosom.

"A pistol--"

The Englishman looked up at him with a keen light in his eye.

"I told you he would not kill that nigger.--See--here--" He took up the knife which had fallen
from Peter Halket's grasp, and fitted it into a piece of the cut leather that lay on the earth.

"But you don't think--" The Colonial stared at him with wide open eyes; then he glanced round
at the Captain's tent.

"Yes, I think that--Go and fetch his great-coat; we'll put him in it. If it is no use talking
while a man is alive, it is no use talking when he is dead!"

They brought his great-coat, and they looked in the pockets to see if there was anything which
might show where he had come from or who his friends were. But there was nothing in the pockets
except an empty flask, and a leathern purse with two shillings in, and a little hand-made two-pointed
cap.

So they wrapped Peter Halket up in his great-coat, and put the little cap on his head.

And, one hour after Peter Halket had stood outside the tent looking up, he was lying under
the little tree, with the red sand trodden down over him, in which a black man and a white
man's blood were mingled.

All the rest of the night the men sat up round the fires, discussing what had happened, dreading
an attack.

But the Englishman and the Colonial went to their tent, to lie down.

"Do you think they will make any inquiries?" asked the Colonial.

"Why should they? His time will be up tomorrow."

"Are you going to say anything?"

"What is the use?"

They lay in the dark for an hour, and heard the men chatting outside.

"Do you believe in a God?" said the Englishman, suddenly.

The Colonial started: "Of course I do!"

"I used to," said the Englishman; "I do not believe in your God; but I believed in something
greater than I could understand, which moved in this earth, as your soul moves in your body.
And I thought this worked in such wise, that the law of cause and effect, which holds in the
physical world, held also in the moral: so, that the thing we call justice, ruled. I do not
believe it any more. There is no God in Mashonaland."

"Oh, don't say that!" cried the Colonial, much distressed. "Are you going off your head, like
poor Halket?"

"No; but there is no God," said the Englishman. He turned round on his shoulder, and said no
more: and afterwards the Colonial went to sleep.

Before dawn the next morning the men had packed up the goods, and started.

By five o'clock the carts had filed away; the men rode or walked before and behind them; and
the space where the camp had been was an empty circle; save for a few broken bottles and empty
tins, and the stones about which the fires had been made, round which warm ashes yet lay.

Only under the little stunted tree, the Colonial and the Englishman were piling up stones.
Their horses stood saddled close by.

Presently the large trooper came riding back. He had been sent by the Captain to ask what they
were fooling behind for, and to tell them to come on.

The men mounted their horses to follow him; but the Englishman turned in his saddle and looked
back. The morning sun was lighting up the straggling branches of the tall trees that had overshadowed
the camp; and fell on the little stunted tree, with its white stem and outstretched arms; and
on the stones beneath it.

"It's all that night on the kopje!" said the Colonial, sadly.

But the Englishman looked back. "I hardly know," he said, "whether it is not better for him
now, than for us."

Then they rode on after the troop.