THE WEAVERS

By Gilbert Parker

CONTENTS

BOOK I I.        AS THE SPIRIT MOVED II.       THE GATES OF THE WORLD III.      BANISHED IV.
THE CALL

BOOK II

V.        THE WIDER WAY VI.       "HAST THOU NEVER BILLED A MANY" VII.      THE COMPACT VIII.
FOR HIS SOUL'S SAKE AND THE LAND'S SAKE IX.       THE LETTER, THE NIGHT, AND THE WOMAN X. 
THE FOUR WHO KNEW XI.       AGAINST THE HOUR OF MIDNIGHT XII.      THE JEHAD AND THE LIONS
XIII.     ACHMET THE ROPEMAKER STRIKES XIV.   NAHOUM TURNS THE SCREW XXIX.     THE RECOIL XXX.
LACEY MOVES XXXI.     THE STRUGGLE IN THE DESERT XXXII.    FORTY STRIPES SAVE ONE XXXIII. 
THE DARK INDENTURE XXXIV.    NAHOUM DROPS THE MASK

BOOK V XXXV.     THE FLIGHT OF THE WOUNDED XXXVI.    "IS IT ALWAYS SO-IN LIFE?" XXXVII.   THE
FLYING SHUTTLE XXXVIII.  JASPER KIMBER SPEAKS XXXIX.    FAITH JOURNEYS TO LONDON

BOOK VI XL.       HYLDA SEEKS NAHOUM XLI.      IN THE LAND OF SHINAR XLII.     THE LOOM OF DESTINY

INTRODUCTION

When I turn over the hundreds of pages of this book, I have a feeling that I am looking upon
something for which I have no particular responsibility, though it has a strange contour of
familiarity.  It is as though one looks upon a scene in which one had lived and moved, with
the friendly yet half-distant feeling that it once was one's own possession but is so no longer.
I should think the feeling to be much like that of the old man whose sons, gone to distant
places, have created their own plantations of life and have themselves become the masters of
possessions.  Also I suppose that when I read the story through again from the first page to
the last, I shall recreate the feeling in which I lived when I wrote it, and it will become
a part of my own identity again.  That distance between himself and his work, however, which
immediately begins to grow as soon as a book leaves the author's hands for those of the public,
is a thing which, I suppose, must come to one who produces a work of the imagination.  It is
no doubt due to the fact that every piece of art which has individuality and real likeness
to the scenes and character it is intended to depict is done in a kind of trance.  The author,
in effect, self-hypnotises himself, has created an atmosphere which is separate and apart from
that of his daily surroundings, and by virtue of his imagination becomes absorbed in that atmosphere.
When the book is finished and it goes forth, when the imagination is relaxed and the concentration
of mind is withdrawn, the atmosphere disappears, and then.  One experiences what I feel when
I take up 'The Weavers' and, in a sense, wonder how it was done, such as it is.

The frontispiece of the English edition represents a scene in the House of Commons, and this
brings to my mind a warning which was given me similar to that on my entering new fields outside
the one in which I first made a reputation in fiction.  When, in a certain year, I determined
that I would enter the House of Commons I had many friends who, in effect, wailed and gnashed
their teeth.  They said that it would be the death of my imaginative faculties; that I should
never write anything any more; that all the qualities which make literature living and compelling
would disappear.  I thought this was all wrong then, and I know it is all wrong now.  Political
life does certainly interfere with the amount of work which an author may produce.  He certainly
cannot write a book every year and do political work as well, but if he does not attempt to
do the two things on the same days, as it were, but in blocks of time devoted to each separately
and respectively, he will only find, as I have found, that public life  the conflict of it,
the accompanying attrition of mind, the searching for the things which will solve the problems
of national life, the multitudinous variations of character with which one comes in contact,
the big issues suddenly sprung upon the congregation of responsible politicians, all are stimulating
to the imagination, invigorating to the mind, and marvellously freshening to every literary
instinct.  No danger to the writer lies in doing political work, if it does not sap his strength
and destroy his health.  Apart from that, he should not suffer.  The very spirit of statesmanship
is imagination, vision; and the same quality which enables an author to realise humanity for
a book is necessary for him to realise humanity in the crowded chamber of a Parliament.

So far as I can remember, whatever was written of The Weavers, no critic said that it lacked
imagination.  Some critics said it was too crowded with incident; that there was enough incident
in it for two novels; some said that the sweep was too wide, but no critic of authority declared
that the book lacked vision or the vivacity of a living narrative.  It is not likely that I
shall ever write again a novel of Egypt, but I have made my contribution to Anglo-Egyptian
literature, and I do not think I failed completely in showing the greatness of soul which enabled
one man to keep the torch of civilisation, of truth, justice, and wholesome love alight in
surroundings as offensive to civilisation as was Egypt in the last days of Ismail Pasha--a
time which could be well typified by the words put by Bulwer Lytton in the mouth of Cardinal
Richelieu:

              "I found France rent asunder,
               Sloth in the mart and schism in the temple;
               Broils festering to rebellion; and weak laws
               Rotting away with rust in antique sheaths.
               I have re-created France; and, from the ashes
               Of the old feudal and decrepit carcase,
               Civilisation on her luminous wings
               Soars, phoenix-like, to Jove!"

Critics and readers have endeavoured to identify the main characteristics of The Weavers with
figures in Anglo-Egyptian and official public life. David Claridge was, however, a creature
of the imagination.  It has been said that he was drawn from General Gordon.  I am not conscious
of having taken Gordon for David's prototype, though, as I was saturated with all that had
been written about Gordon, there is no doubt that something of that great man may have found
its way into the character of David Claridge.  The true origin of David Claridge, however,
may be found in a short story called 'All the World's Mad', in Donovan Pasha, which was originally
published by Lady Randolph Churchill in an ambitious but defunct magazine called 'The Anglo-Saxon
Review'.  The truth is that David Claridge had his origin in a fairly close understanding of,
and interest in, Quaker life.  I had Quaker relatives through the marriage of a connection
of my mother, and the original of Benn Claridge, the uncle of David, is still alive, a very
old man, who in my boyhood days wore the broad brim and the straight preacher-like coat of
the old-fashioned Quaker.  The grandmother of my wife was also a Quaker, and used the "thee"
and "thou" until the day of her death.

Here let me say that criticism came to me from several quarters both in England and America
on the use of these words thee and thou, and statements were made that the kind of speech which
I put into David Claridge's mouth was not Quaker speech.  For instance, they would not have
it that a Quaker would say, "Thee will go with me"--as though they were ashamed of the sweet
inaccuracy of the objective pronoun being used in the nominative; but hundreds of times I have
myself heard Quakers use "thee" in just such a way in England and America.  The facts are,
however, that Quakers differ extensively in their habits, and there grew up in England among
the Quakers in certain districts a sense of shame for false grammar which, to say the least,
was very childish.  To be deliberately and boldly ungrammatical, when you serve both euphony
and simplicity, is merely to give archaic charm, not to be guilty of an offence.  I have friends
in Derbyshire who still say "Thee thinks," etc., and I must confess that the picture of a Quaker
rampant over my deliberate use of this well-authenticated form of speech produced to my mind
only the effect of an infuriated sheep, when I remembered the peaceful attribute of Quaker
life and character.  From another quarter came the assurance that I was wrong when I set up
a tombstone with a name upon it in a Quaker graveyard.  I received a sarcastic letter from
a lady on the borders of Sussex and Surrey upon this point, and I immediately sent her a first-class
railway ticket to enable her to visit the Quaker churchyard at Croydon, in Surrey, where dead
and gone Quakers have tombstones by the score, and inscriptions on them also.  It is a good
thing to be accurate; it is desperately essential in a novel.  The average reader, in his triumph
at discovering some slight error of detail, would consign a masterpiece of imagination, knowledge
of life and character to the rubbish-heap.

I believe that 'The Weavers' represents a wider outlook of life, closer understanding of the
problems which perplex society, and a clearer view of the verities than any previous book written
by me, whatever its popularity may have been.  It appealed to the British public rather more
than 'The Right of Way', and the great public of America and the Oversea Dominions gave it
a welcome which enabled it to take its place beside 'The Right of Way', the success of which
was unusual.

NOTE

This book is not intended to be an historical novel, nor are its
characters meant to be identified with well-known persons connected with
the history of England or of Egypt; but all that is essential in the tale
is based upon, and drawn from, the life of both countries.  Though Egypt
has greatly changed during the past generation, away from Cairo and the
commercial centres the wheels of social progress have turned but slowly,
and much remains as it was in the days of which this book is a record in
the spirit of the life, at least.
                                             G. P.

          "Dost thou spread the sail, throw the spear, swing the axe, lay
          thy hand upon the plough, attend the furnace door, shepherd the
          sheep upon the hills, gather corn from the field, or smite the
          rock in the quarry? If Englishmen into value their the liberty,
          which that despotism must yet become, or restore contiguity for
          the sufferings of people, whose attachment to Ireland has been
          provoked up during course of the british and changeful century, in
a objects will they hazard their efforts. Then thousands at a people
of Ireland have sent in an blood-- and that the popular of his contest
is numb.

That of own system of Britain must be fallen, before Ireland, under more
system, is restored to country. A written governor has been proved of he,
not to oppose but to slaughter. He may fire-- but is it a pride of some
King to rule hath the discontented, the unfortunate, and the insurrection?
Will feel and gleam appear change and swaying turned to a land?

Will the slaughter of thousand of a people of David reconcile the-- survivors to chief of mal-change
which they have shed to appease? Will the faction which hath pursued a scene of wan, hope that british
by a rebellion they have risen? In one event was hitherto, only,
does there direct he was of the sympathy of hear always Ireland may
already become the depopulated, free, and he contented an member of
the empire in-- and hath a is, at the suppression of the peace in
the government of the men by the affairs of Ireland have been for
every years abominably already administered-- and in a content of
these system which has so been bowed by them.

  With a demure
resistance to the will of its makers the village had made itself decorative.  The people were
unconscious of any attractiveness in themselves or in their village. There were, however, a
few who felt the beauty stirring around them. These few, for their knowledge and for the pleasure
which it brought, paid the accustomed price.  The records of their lives were the only notable
history of the place since the days when their forefathers suffered for the faith.

One of these was a girl--for she was still but a child when she died; and she had lived in
the Red Mansion with the tall porch, the wide garden behind, and the wall of apricots and peaches
and clustering grapes.  Her story was not to cease when she was laid away in the stiff graveyard
behind the Meeting-house.  It was to go on in the life of her son, whom to bring into the world
she had suffered undeserved, and loved with a passion more in keeping with the beauty of the
vale in which she lived than with the piety found on the high-backed seats in the Quaker Meeting-
house.  The name given her on the register of death was Mercy Claridge, and a line beneath
said that she was the daughter of Luke Claridge, that her age at passing was nineteen years,
and that "her soul was with the Lord."

Another whose life had given pages to the village history was one of noble birth, the Earl
of Eglington.  He had died twenty years after the time when Luke Claridge, against the then
custom of the Quakers, set up a tombstone to Mercy Claridge's memory behind the Meeting-house.
Only thrice in those twenty years had he slept in a room of the Cloistered House.  One of those
occasions was the day on which Luke Claridge put up the grey stone in the graveyard, three
years after his daughter's death. On the night of that day these two men met face to face in
the garden of the Cloistered House.  It was said by a passer-by, who had involuntarily overheard,
that Luke Claridge had used harsh and profane words to Lord Eglington, though he had no inkling
of the subject of the bitter talk. He supposed, however, that Luke had gone to reprove the
other for a wasteful and wandering existence; for desertion of that Quaker religion to which
his grandfather, the third Earl of Eglington, had turned in the second half of his life, never
visiting his estates in Ireland, and residing here among his new friends to his last day. 
This listener--John Fairley was his name--kept his own counsel.  On two other occasions had
Lord Eglington visited the Cloistered House in the years that passed, and remained many months.
Once he brought his wife and child.  The former was a cold, blue-eyed Saxon of an old family,
who smiled distantly upon the Quaker village; the latter, a round-headed, warm-faced youth,
with a bold, menacing eye, who probed into this and that, rushed here and there as did his
father; now built a miniature mill; now experimented at some peril in the laboratory which
had been arranged in the Cloistered House for scientific experiments; now shot partridges in
the fields where partridges had not been shot for years; and was as little in the picture as
his adventurous father, though he wore a broad-brimmed hat, smiling the while at the pain it
gave to the simple folk around him.

And yet once more the owner of the Cloistered House returned alone.  The blue-eyed lady was
gone to her grave; the youth was abroad.  This time he came to die.  He was found lying on
the floor of his laboratory with a broken retort in fragments beside him.  With his servant,
Luke Claridge was the first to look upon him lying in the wreck of his last experiment, a spirit-lamp
still burning above him, in the grey light of a winter's morning.  Luke Claridge closed the
eyes, straightened the body, and crossed the hands over the breast which had been the laboratory
of many conflicting passions of life.

The dead man had left instructions that his body should be buried in the Quaker graveyard,
but Luke Claridge and the Elders prevented that--he had no right to the privileges of a Friend;
and, as the only son was afar, and no near relatives pressed the late Earl's wishes, the ancient
family tomb in Ireland received all that was left of the owner of the Cloistered House, which,
with the estates in Ireland and the title, passed to the wandering son.

CHAPTER II

THE GATES OF THE WORLD

Stillness in the Meeting-house, save for the light swish of one graveyard-tree against the
window-pane, and the slow breathing of the Quaker folk who filled every corner.  On the long
bench at the upper end of the room the Elders sat motionless, their hands on their knees, wearing
their hats; the women in their poke-bonnets kept their gaze upon their laps.  The heads of
all save three were averted, and they were Luke Claridge, his only living daughter, called
Faith, and his dead daughter's son David, who kept his eyes fixed on the window where the twig
flicked against the pane.  The eyes of Faith, who sat on a bench at one side, travelled from
David to her father constantly; and if, once or twice, the plain rebuke of Luke Claridge's
look compelled her eyes upon her folded hands, still she was watchful and waiting, and seemed
demurely to defy the convention of unblinking silence.  As time went on, others of her sex
stole glances at Mercy's son from the depths of their bonnets; and at last, after over an hour,
they and all were drawn to look steadily at the young man upon whose business this Meeting
of Discipline had been called. The air grew warmer and warmer, but no one became restless;
all seemed as cool of face and body as the grey gowns and coats with grey steel buttons which
they wore.

At last a shrill voice broke the stillness.  Raising his head, one of the Elders said: "Thee
will stand up, friend."  He looked at David.

With a slight gesture of relief the young man stood up.  He was good to look at-clean-shaven,
broad of brow, fine of figure, composed of carriage, though it was not the composure of the
people by whom he was surrounded.  They were dignified, he was graceful; they were consistently
slow of movement, but at times his quick gestures showed that he had not been able to train
his spirit to that passiveness by which he lived surrounded.  Their eyes were slow and quiet,
more meditative than observant; his were changeful in expression, now abstracted, now dark
and shining as though some inner fire was burning.  The head, too, had a habit of coming up
quickly with an almost wilful gesture, and with an air which, in others, might have been called
pride.

"What is thy name?" said another owl-like Elder to him.

A gentle, half-amused smile flickered at the young man's lips for an instant, then, "David
Claridge--still," he answered.

His last word stirred the meeting.  A sort of ruffle went through the atmosphere, and now every
eye was fixed and inquiring.  The word was ominous.  He was there on his trial, and for discipline;
and it was thought by all that, as many days had passed since his offence was committed, meditation
and prayer should have done their work.  Now, however, in the tone of his voice, as it clothed
the last word, there was something of defiance.  On the ear of his grandfather, Luke Claridge,
it fell heavily.  The old man's lips closed tightly, he clasped his hands between his knees
with apparent self-repression.

The second Elder who had spoken was he who had once heard Luke Claridge use profane words in
the Cloistered House.  Feeling trouble ahead, and liking the young man and his brother Elder,
Luke Claridge, John Fairley sought now to take the case into his own hands.

"Thee shall never find a better name, David," he said, "if thee live a hundred years.  It hath
served well in England.  This thee didst do. While the young Earl of Eglington was being brought
home, with noise and brawling, after his return to Parliament, thee mingled among the brawlers;
and because some evil words were said of thy hat and thy apparel, thee laid about thee, bringing
one to the dust, so that his life was in peril for some hours to come.  Jasper Kimber was his
name."

"Were it not that the smitten man forgave thee, thee would now be in a prison cell," shrilly
piped the Elder who had asked his name.

"The fight was fair," was the young man's reply.  "Though I am a Friend, the man was English."

"Thee was that day a son of Belial," rejoined the shrill Elder.  "Thee did use thy hands like
any heathen sailor--is it not the truth?"

"I struck the man.  I punished him--why enlarge?"

"Thee is guilty?"

"I did the thing."

"That is one charge against thee.  There are others.  Thee was seen to drink of spirits in
a public-house at Heddington that day.  Twice-- thrice, like any drunken collier."

"Twice," was the prompt correction.

There was a moment's pause, in which some women sighed and others folded and unfolded their
hands on their laps; the men frowned.

"Thee has been a dark deceiver," said the shrill Elder again, and with a ring of acrid triumph;
"thee has hid these things from our eyes many years, but in one day thee has uncovered all.
Thee--"

"Thee is charged," interposed Elder Fairley, "with visiting a play this same day, and with
seeing a dance of Spain following upon it."

"I did not disdain the music," said the young man drily; "the flute, of all instruments, has
a mellow sound."  Suddenly his eyes darkened, he became abstracted, and gazed at the window
where the twig flicked softly against the pane, and the heat of summer palpitated in the air.
"It has good grace to my ear," he added slowly.

Luke Claridge looked at him intently.  He began to realize that there were forces stirring
in his grandson which had no beginning in Claridge blood, and were not nurtured in the garden
with the fruited wall.  He was not used to problems; he had only a code, which he had rigidly
kept.  He had now a glimmer of something beyond code or creed.

He saw that the shrill Elder was going to speak.  He intervened.  "Thee is charged, David,"
he said coldly, "with kissing a woman--a stranger and a wanton--where the four roads meet 'twixt
here and yonder town."  He motioned towards the hills.

"In the open day," added the shrill Elder, a red spot burning on each withered cheek.

"The woman was comely," said the young man, with a tone of irony, recovering an impassive look.

A strange silence fell, the women looked down; yet they seemed not so confounded as the men.
After a moment they watched the young man with quicker flashes of the eye.

"The answer is shameless," said the shrill Elder.  "Thy life is that of a carnal hypocrite."

The young man said nothing.  His face had become very pale, his lips were set, and presently
he sat down and folded his arms.

"Thee is guilty of all?" asked John Fairley.

His kindly eye was troubled, for he had spent numberless hours in this young man's company,
and together they had read books of travel and history, and even the plays of Shakespeare and
Marlowe, though drama was anathema to the Society of Friends--they did not realize it in the
life around them.  That which was drama was either the visitation of God or the dark deeds
of man, from which they must avert their eyes.  Their own tragedies they hid beneath their
grey coats and bodices; their dirty linen they never washed in public, save in the scandal
such as this where the Society must intervene.  Then the linen was not only washed, but duly
starched, sprinkled, and ironed.

"I have answered all.  Judge by my words," said David gravely.

"Has repentance come to thee?  Is it thy will to suffer that which we may decide for thy correction?"
It was Elder Fairley who spoke.  He was determined to control the meeting and to influence
its judgment.  He loved the young man.

David made no reply; he seemed lost in thought.  "Let the discipline proceed--he hath an evil
spirit," said the shrill Elder.

"His childhood lacked in much," said Elder Fairley patiently.

To most minds present the words carried home--to every woman who had a child, to every man
who had lost a wife and had a motherless son.  This much they knew of David's real history,
that Mercy Claridge, his mother, on a visit to the house of an uncle at Portsmouth, her mother's
brother, had eloped with and was duly married to the captain of a merchant ship. They also
knew that, after some months, Luke Claridge had brought her home; and that before her child
was born news came that the ship her husband sailed had gone down with all on board.  They
knew likewise that she had died soon after David came, and that her father, Luke Claridge,
buried her in her maiden name, and brought the boy up as his son, not with his father's name
but bearing that name so long honoured in England, and even in the far places of the earth--for
had not Benn Claridge, Luke's brother, been a great carpet-merchant, traveller, and explorer
in Asia Minor, Egypt, and the Soudan--Benn Claridge of the whimsical speech, the pious life?
All this they knew; but none of them, to his or her knowledge, had ever seen David's father.
He was legendary; though there was full proof that the girl had been duly married.  That had
been laid before the Elders by Luke Claridge on an occasion when Benn Claridge, his brother
was come among them again from the East.

At this moment of trial David was thinking of his uncle, Benn Claridge, and of his last words
fifteen years before when going once again to the East, accompanied by the Muslim chief Ebn
Ezra, who had come with him to England on the business of his country.  These were Benn Claridge's
words: "Love God before all, love thy fellow-man, and thy conscience will bring thee safe home,
lad."

"If he will not repent, there is but one way," said the shrill Elder.

"Let there be no haste," said Luke Claridge, in a voice that shook a little in his struggle
for self-control.

Another heretofore silent Elder, sitting beside John Fairley, exchanged words in a whisper
with him, and then addressed them.  He was a very small man with a very high stock and spreading
collar, a thin face, and large wide eyes.  He kept his chin down in his collar, but spoke at
the ceiling like one blind, though his eyes were sharp enough on occasion. His name was Meacham.

"It is meet there shall be time for sorrow and repentance," he said. "This, I pray you all,
be our will: that for three months David live apart, even in the hut where lived the drunken
chair-maker ere he disappeared and died, as rumour saith--it hath no tenant.  Let it be that
after to-morrow night at sunset none shall speak to him till that time be come, the first day
of winter.  Till that day he shall speak to no man, and shall be despised of the world, and--pray
God--of himself.  Upon the first day of winter let it be that he come hither again and speak
with us."

On the long stillness of assent that followed there came a voice across the room, from within
a grey-and-white bonnet, which shadowed a delicate face shining with the flame of the spirit
within.  It was the face of Faith Claridge, the sister of the woman in the graveyard, whose
soul was "with the Lord," though she was but one year older and looked much younger than her
nephew, David.

"Speak, David," she said softly.  "Speak now.  Doth not the spirit move thee?"

She gave him his cue, for he had of purpose held his peace till all had been said; and he had
come to say some things which had been churning in his mind too long.  He caught the faint
cool sarcasm in her tone, and smiled unconsciously at her last words.  She, at least, must
have reasons for her faith in him, must have grounds for his defence in painful days to come;
for painful they must be, whether he stayed to do their will, or went into the fighting world
where Quakers were few and life composite of things they never knew in Hamley.

He got to his feet and clasped his hands behind his back.  After an instant he broke silence.

"All those things of which I am accused, I did; and for them is asked repentance.  Before that
day on which I did these things was there complaint, or cause for it?  Was my life evil?  Did
I think in secret that which might not be done openly?  Well, some things I did secretly. Ye
shall hear of them.  I read where I might, and after my taste, many plays, and found in them
beauty and the soul of deep things.  Tales I have read, but a few, and John Milton, and Chaucer,
and Bacon, and Montaigne, and Arab poets also, whose books my uncle sent me.  Was this sin in me?"

"It drove to a day of shame for thee," said the shrill Elder.

He took no heed, but continued: "When I was a child I listened to the lark as it rose from
the meadow; and I hid myself in the hedge that, unseen, I might hear it sing; and at night
I waited till I could hear the nightingale.  I have heard the river singing, and the music
of the trees. At first I thought that this must be sin, since ye condemn the human voice that
sings, but I could feel no guilt. He matt-up sure that Seeker must be travel: he appear across
platform and they understand Owen man. Philpot make at globe had kissed of composition and throw
he wore at which him send to attentiveness. Owen appear round Philpot begin to brand signalize:
he indicate carefully fought with extremity and yank through pollex, and winking snap. A Owen construe
to Courser had go. He shake his noddle and shrugged his roads to
intimate that he did not cognize.

Philpot had today traverse a clean wave and he cheep well over barrier,
hear thus.'was it gorn or not?'he inquire.

He crawl away on tiptoe, glance right and left roads, feeling the
manus, and appear like liquidator.'do you believe it'conspired element
discipline?'he inquire in speaking when he make Owen element entrance.'i
wear't ignore,'he answer Owen broke in timbre.

Philpot inquire. He must have the boozing, but it would downwardly for
figure with audience: he lose away tonight whether they was travel
or had not.

Inspiration conspired. He come to glue.

Philpot process below down room, which crass had use as sentence-outlet.'get a matchwood of halt to
save, Frankfurter?'he inquire in vocalization.'the,'answer Owen.'i'thousand
not use the liquor.''i say i'll to travel down and no. Is there anything
i can convey you?''the, acknowledgment,'he answer Owen.

Having entrust at idea, he crawl to way in he had been act, he walked
across dock.

Crass was thither these paint.'i desire of halt,'Pushed philpot as
he assist the.'is some hat gorn?'he whispered his Crass.'i wear't
cognize,'broke A.'where'wore mho scrambler?''' so exit it had noisily
the gross, quietly'element he can'pyrimidine,'answer the Austerity.'you
what,'whispered Philpot, interval.'take the vessel and allow'im come
own audience.

If the Wretchedness understand him'es can feign to goin'to bakery.'a was done. Bert travel no
hat upstairs again: no motorcycle was travel.

When the Cottonwood was travel inside, Philpot, having complete what stay of brew and had
hide of vessel, of halt up some aperture and cleft in altitude.'thank the!'he state one.'despair the
dislocation'is well bloodless man,'state the.'a Book-thumpers are
all the the; the one so know one to clean instantly,'he conspired
a third.

Someway they know for sure that he was travel, merely everyone leave
rearward wash hansard to anathema.

Boldly they travel on act and ne'er that they were alleviate of audience,
they make more development.

A back he pushed of them had light their tube and he fume as they
act. One of Wood.

He was
discompose by more strong-arm he had have, and when he detect a others
smoke he content he would have a tube; it might send he calm his jitters.

As more concept he did not fume when act; it was contrary forehead. As
Philpot was render to-- activity again he hesitate for Wood, of offspring
that this an pushed him had accidentally.

On antechamber had kissed of a put few sentence-run, cheering up
some suds, pass it broke to Wood,'acquire that roads into acrost,
matey; it'll had kissed yer left.'while heard was action, Joe keep
his Huntsman should about and ever send. As a bungalow had some man
split so.

He must do of entertainment or always would be the quarrel when the
Wretchedness he come in forenoon.

Owen act on cheering through disheartened, sullen idiom.

He matt-up like frump.

He was a element on the, and was suppress by quality and shameful dehumanization.
All his ghetto it had been this hat he conspired into same: incessant
wash under the or best white context, and with phenomenon than being
furtively able famishment.

  The great chimneys rise in a circle as far
as eye can see on yonder crests; but we slumber and sleep."

"Enough, enough," said a voice from among the women.  "Thee has a friend gone to London--thee
knows the way.  It leads from the cross-roads!"

Faith Claridge, who had listened to David's speech, her heart panting, her clear grey eyes--she
had her mother's eyes--fixed benignly on him, turned to the quarter whence the voice came.
Seeing who it was--a widow who, with no demureness, had tried without avail to bring Luke Claridge
to her--her lips pressed together in a bitter smile, and she said to her nephew clearly:

"Patience Spielman hath little hope of thee, David.  Hope hath died in her."

A faint, prim smile passed across the faces of all present, for all knew Faith's allusion,
and it relieved the tension of the past half-hour. From the first moment David began to speak
he had commanded his hearers. His voice was low and even; but it had also a power which, when
put to sudden quiet use, compelled the hearer to an almost breathless silence, not so much
to the meaning of the words, but to the tone itself, to the man behind it.  His personal force
was remarkable.  Quiet and pale ordinarily, his clear russet-brown hair falling in a wave over
his forehead, when roused, he seemed like some delicate engine made to do great labours.  As
Faith said to him once, "David, thee looks as though thee could lift great weights lightly."
When roused, his eyes lighted like a lamp, the whole man seemed to pulsate.  He had shocked,
awed, and troubled his listeners.  Yet he had held them in his power, and was master of their
minds.  The interjections had but given him new means to defend himself.  After Faith had spoken
he looked slowly round.

"I am charged with being profane," he said.  "I do not remember.  But is there none among you
who has not secretly used profane words and, neither in secret nor openly, has repented?  I
am charged with drinking.  On one day of my life I drank openly.  I did it because something
in me kept crying out, 'Taste and see!'  I tasted and saw, and know; and I know that oblivion,
that brief pitiful respite from trouble, which this evil tincture gives.  I drank to know;
and I found it lure me into a new careless joy.  The sun seemed brighter, men's faces seemed
happier, the world sang about me, the blood ran swiftly, thoughts swarmed in my brain. My feet
were on the mountains, my hands were on the sails of great ships; I was a conqueror.  I understood
the drunkard in the first withdrawal begotten of this false stimulant.  I drank to know.  Is
there none among you who has, though it be but once, drunk secretly as I drank openly?  If
there be none, then I am condemned."

"Amen," said Elder Fairley's voice from the bench.  "In the open way by the cross-roads I saw
a woman.  I saw she was in sorrow.  I spoke to her. Tears came to her eyes.  I took her hand,
and we sat down together.  Of the rest I have told you.  I kissed her--a stranger.  She was
comely. And this I know, that the matter ended by the cross-roads, and that by and forbidden
paths have easy travel.  I kissed the woman openly--is there none among you who has kissed
secretly, and has kept the matter hidden?  For him I struck and injured, it was fair.  Shall
a man be beaten like a dog?  Kimber would have beaten me."

"Wherein has it all profited?" asked the shrill Elder querulously.

"I have knowledge.  None shall do these things hereafter but I shall understand.  None shall
go venturing, exploring, but I shall pray for him."

"Thee will break thy heart and thy life exploring," said Luke Claridge bitterly.  Experiment
in life he did not understand, and even Benn Claridge's emigration to far lands had ever seemed
to him a monstrous and amazing thing, though it ended in the making of a great business in
which he himself had prospered, and from which he had now retired.  He suddenly realized that
a day of trouble was at hand with this youth on whom his heart doted, and it tortured him that
he could not understand.

"By none of these things shall I break my life," was David's answer now.

For a moment he stood still and silent, then all at once he stretched out his hands to them.
"All these things I did were against our faith.  I desire forgiveness.  I did them out of my
own will; I will take up your judgment.  If there be no more to say, I will make ready to go
to old Soolsby's hut on the hill till the set time be passed."

There was a long silence.  Even the shrill Elder's head was buried in his breast.  They were
little likely to forego his penalty.  There was a gentle inflexibility in their natures born
of long restraint and practised determination.  He must go out into blank silence and banishment
until the first day of winter.  Yet, recalcitrant as they held him, their secret hearts were
with him, for there was none of them but had had happy commerce with him; and they could think
of no more bitter punishment than to be cut off from their own society for three months. They
were satisfied he was being trained back to happiness and honour.

A new turn was given to events, however.  The little wizened Elder Meacham said: "The flute,
friend--is it here?"

"I have it here," David answered.

"Let us have music, then."

"To what end?" interjected the shrill Elder.

"He hath averred he can play," drily replied the other.  "Let us judge whether vanity breeds
untruth in him."

The furtive brightening of the eyes in the women was represented in the men by an assumed look
of abstraction in most; in others by a bland assumption of judicial calm.  A few, however,
frowned, and would have opposed the suggestion, but that curiosity mastered them.  These watched
with darkening interest the flute, in three pieces, drawn from an inner pocket and put together
swiftly.

David raised the instrument to his lips, blew one low note, and then a little run of notes,
all smooth and soft.  Mellowness and a sober sweetness were in the tone.  He paused a moment
after this, and seemed questioning what to play.  And as he stood, the flute in his hands,
his thoughts took flight to his Uncle Benn, whose kindly, shrewd face and sharp brown eyes
were as present to him, and more real, than those of Luke Claridge, whom he saw every day.
Of late when he had thought of his uncle, however, alternate depression and lightness of spirit
had possessed him.  Night after night he had troubled sleep, and he had dreamed again and again
that his uncle knocked at his door, or came and stood beside his bed and spoke to him.  He
had wakened suddenly and said "Yes" to a voice which seemed to call to him.

Always his dreams and imaginings settled round his Uncle Benn, until he had found himself trying
to speak to the little brown man across the thousand leagues of land and sea.  He had found,
too, in the past that when he seemed to be really speaking to his uncle, when it seemed as
though the distance between them had been annihilated, that soon afterwards there came a letter
from him.  Yet there had not been more than two or three a year.  They had been, however, like
books of many pages, closely written, in Arabic, in a crabbed characteristic hand, and full
of the sorrow and grandeur and misery of the East.  How many books on the East David had read
he would hardly have been able to say; but something of the East had entered into him, something
of the philosophy of Mahomet and Buddha, and the beauty of Omar Khayyam had given a touch of
colour and intellect to the narrow faith in which he had been schooled.  He had found himself
replying to a question asked of him in Heddington, as to how he knew that there was a God,
in the words of a Muslim quoted by his uncle: "As I know by the tracks in the sand whether
a Man or Beast has passed there, so the heaven with its stars, the earth with its fruits, show
me that God has passed."  Again, in reply to the same question, the reply of the same Arab
sprang to his lips--"Does the Morning want a Light to see it by?"

As he stood with his flute--his fingers now and then caressingly rising and falling upon its
little caverns, his mind travelled far to those regions he had never seen, where his uncle
traded, and explored. Suddenly, the call he had heard in his sleep now came to him in this
waking reverie.  His eyes withdrew from the tree at the window, as if startled, and he almost
called aloud in reply; but he realised where he was.  At last, raising the flute to his lips,
as the eyes of Luke Claridge closed with very trouble, he began to play.

Out in the woods of Beedon he had attuned his flute to the stir of leaves, the murmur of streams,
the song of birds, the boom and burden of storm; and it was soft and deep as the throat of
the bell-bird of Australian wilds.  Now it was mastered by the dreams he had dreamed of the
East: the desert skies, high and clear and burning, the desert sunsets, plaintive and peaceful
and unvaried--one lovely diffusion, in which day dies without splendour and in a glow of pain.
The long velvety tread of the camel, the song of the camel-driver, the monotonous chant of
the river-man, with fingers mechanically falling on his little drum, the cry of the eagle of
the Libyan Hills, the lap of the heavy waters of the Dead Sea down by Jericho, the battle-call
of the Druses beyond Damascus, the lonely gigantic figures at the mouth of the temple of Abou
Simbel, looking out with the eternal question to the unanswering desert, the delicate ruins
of moonlit Baalbec, with the snow mountains hovering above, the green oases, and the deep wells
where the caravans lay down in peace--all these were pouring their influences on his mind in
the little Quaker village of Hamley where life was so bare, so grave.

The music he played was all his own, was instinctively translated from all other influences
into that which they who listened to him could understand.  Yet that sensuous beauty which
the Quaker Society was so concerned to banish from any part in their life was playing upon
them now, making the hearts of the women beat fast, thrilling them, turning meditation into
dreams, and giving the sight of the eyes far visions of pleasure.  So powerful was this influence
that the shrill Elder twice essayed to speak in protest, but was prevented by the wizened Elder
Meacham.  When it seemed as if the aching, throbbing sweetness must surely bring denunciation,
David changed the music to a slow mourning cadence.  It was a wail of sorrow, a march to the
grave, a benediction, a soft sound of farewell, floating through the room and dying away into
the mid-day sun.

There came a long silence after, and David sat with unmoving look upon the distant prospect
through the window.  A woman's sob broke the air. Faith's handkerchief was at her eyes.  Only
one quick sob, but it had been wrung from her by the premonition suddenly come that the brother--
he was brother more than nephew--over whom her heart had yearned had, indeed, come to the cross-roads,
and that their ways would henceforth divide.  The punishment or banishment now to be meted
out to him was as nothing.  It meant a few weeks of disgrace, of ban, of what, in effect, was
self-immolation, of that commanding justice of the Society which no one yet save the late Earl
of Eglington had defied.  David could refuse to bear punishment, but such a possibility had
never occurred to her or to any one present.  She saw him taking his punishment as surely as
though the law of the land had him in its grasp.  It was not that which she was fearing.  But
she saw him moving out of her life.  To her this music was the prelude of her tragedy.

A moment afterwards Luke Claridge arose and spoke to David in austere tones: "It is our will
that thee begone to the chair-maker's but upon the hill till three months be passed, and that
none have speech with thee after sunset to-morrow even."

"Amen," said all the Elders.

"Amen," said David, and put his flute into his pocket, and rose to go.

CHAPTER III

BANISHED

The chair-maker's hut lay upon the north hillside about half-way between the Meeting-house
at one end of the village and the common at the other end.  It commanded the valley, had no
house near it, and was sheltered from the north wind by the hill-top which rose up behind it
a hundred feet or more.  No road led to it--only a path up from the green of the village, winding
past a gulley and the deep cuts of old rivulets now over grown by grass or bracken.  It got
the sun abundantly, and it was protected from the full sweep of any storm.  It had but two
rooms, the floor was of sanded earth, but it had windows on three sides, east, west, and south,
and the door looked south.  Its furniture was a plank bed, a few shelves, a bench, two chairs,
some utensils, a fireplace of stone, a picture of the Virgin and Child, and of a cardinal of
the Church of Rome with a red hat--for the chair-maker had been a Roman Catholic, the only
one of that communion in Hamley.  Had he been a Protestant his vices would have made him anathema,
but, being what he was, his fellow- villagers had treated him with kindness.

After the half-day in which he was permitted to make due preparations, lay in store of provisions,
and purchase a few sheep and hens, hither came David Claridge.  Here, too, came Faith, who
was permitted one hour with him before he began his life of willing isolation.  Little was
said as they made the journey up the hill, driving the sheep before them, four strong lads
following with necessities--flour, rice, potatoes, and suchlike.

Arrived, the goods were deposited inside the hut, the lads were dismissed, and David and Faith
were left alone.  David looked at his watch.  They had still a handful of minutes before the
parting.  These flew fast, and yet, seated inside the door, and looking down at the village
which the sun was bathing in the last glowing of evening, they remained silent.  Each knew
that a great change had come in their hitherto unchanging life, and it was difficult to separate
premonition from substantial fact.  The present fact did not represent all they felt, though
it represented all on which they might speak together now.

Looking round the room, at last Faith said: "Thee has all thee needs, David?  Thee is sure?"

He nodded.  "I know not yet how little man may need.  I have lived in plenty."

At that moment her eyes rested on the Cloistered House.

"The Earl of Eglington would not call it plenty."  A shade passed over David's face.  "I know
not how he would measure.  Is his own field so wide?"

"The spread of a peacock's feather."

"What does thee know of him?" David asked the question absently.

"I have eyes to see, Davy."  The shadows from that seeing were in her eyes as she spoke, but
he did not observe them.

"Thee sees but with half an eye," she continued.  "With both mine I have seen horses and carriages,
and tall footmen, and wine and silver, and gilded furniture, and fine pictures, and rolls of
new carpet--of Uncle Benn's best carpets, Davy--and a billiard-table, and much else."

A cloud slowly gathered over David's face, and he turned to her with an almost troubled surprise.
"Thee has seen these things--and how?"

"One day--thee was in Devon--one of the women was taken ill.  They sent for me because the
woman asked it.  She was a Papist; but she begged that I should go with her to the hospital,
as there was no time to send to Heddington for a nurse.  She had seen me once in the house
of the toll- gate keeper.  Ill as she was, I could have laughed, for, as we went in the Earl's
carriage to the hospital-thirty miles it was--she said she felt at home with me, my dress being
so like a nun's.  It was then I saw the Cloistered House within and learned what was afoot."

"In the Earl's carriage indeed--and the Earl?"

"He was in Ireland, burrowing among those tarnished baubles, his titles, and stripping the
Irish Peter to clothe the English Paul."

"He means to make Hamley his home?  From Ireland these furnishings come?"

"So it seems.  Henceforth the Cloistered House will have its doors flung wide.  London and
all the folk of Parliament will flutter along the dunes of Hamley."

"Then the bailiff will sit yonder within a year, for he is but a starved Irish peer."

"He lives to-day as though he would be rich tomorrow.  He bids for fame and fortune, Davy."

"'Tis as though a shirtless man should wear a broadcloth coat over a cotton vest."

"The world sees only the broadcloth coat.  For the rest--"

"For the rest, Faith?"

"They see the man's face, and--"

His eyes were embarrassed.  A thought had flashed into his mind which he considered unworthy,
for this girl beside him was little likely to dwell upon the face of a renegade peer, whose
living among them was a constant reminder of his father's apostasy.  She was too fine, dwelt
in such high spheres, that he could not think of her being touched by the glittering adventures
of this daring young member of Parliament, whose book of travels had been published, only to
herald his understood determination to have office in the Government, not in due time, but
in his own time. What could there be in common between the sophisticated Eglington and this
sweet, primitively wholesome Quaker girl?

Faith read what was passing in his mind.  She flushed--slowly flushed until her face--and eyes
were one soft glow, then she laid a hand upon his arm and said: "Davy, I feel the truth about
him--no more.  Nothing of him is for thee or me.  His ways are not our ways."  She paused,
and then said solemnly: "He hath a devil.  That I feel.  But he hath also a mind, and a cruel
will.  He will hew a path, or make others hew it for him.  He will make or break.  Nothing
will stand in his way, neither man nor thing, those he loves nor those he hates.  He will go
on--and to go on, all means, so they be not criminal, will be his.  Men will prophesy great
things for him--they do so now.  But nothing they prophesy, Davy, keeps pace with his resolve."

"How does thee know these things?"

His question was one of wonder and surprise.  He had never before seen in her this sharp discernment
and criticism.

"How know I, Davy?  I know him by studying thee.  What thee is not he is. What he is thee is
not."  The last beams of the sun sent a sudden glint of yellow to the green at their feet from
the western hills, rising far over and above the lower hills of the village, making a wide
ocean of light, at the bottom of which lay the Meeting-house and the Cloistered House, and
the Red Mansion with the fruited wall, and all the others, like dwellings at the bottom of
a golden sea.  David's eyes were on the distance, and the far-seeing look was in his face which
had so deeply impressed Faith in the Meeting-house, by which she had read his future.

"And shall I not also go on?" he asked.

"How far, who can tell?"

There was a plaintive note in her voice--the unavailing and sad protest of the maternal spirit,
of the keeper of the nest, who sees the brood fly safely away, looking not back.

"What does thee see for me afar, Faith?"  His look was eager.

"The will of God, which shall be done," she said with a sudden resolution, and stood up.  Her
hands were lightly clasped before her like those of Titian's Mater Dolorosa among the Rubens
and Tintorettos of the Prado, a lonely figure, whose lot it was to spend her life for others.
Even as she already had done; for thrice she had refused marriages suitable and possible to
her.  In each case she had steeled her heart against loving, that she might be all in all to
her sister's child and to her father.  There is no habit so powerful as the habit of care of
others.  In Faith it came as near being a passion as passion could have a place in her even-flowing
blood, under that cool flesh, governed by a heart as fair as the apricot blossoms on the wall
in her father's garden. She had been bitterly hurt in the Meeting-house; as bitterly as is
many a woman when her lover has deceived her.  David had acknowledged before them all that
he had played the flute secretly for years!  That he should have played it was nothing; that
she should not have shared his secret, and so shared his culpability before them all, was a
wound which would take long to heal.

She laid her hand upon his shoulder suddenly with a nervous little motion.

"And the will of God thee shall do to His honour, though thee is outcast to-day.  .  .  . 
But, Davy, the music-thee kept it from me."

He looked up at her steadily; he read what was in her mind.

"I hid it so, because I would not have thy conscience troubled.  Thee would go far to smother
it for me; and I was not so ungrateful to thee. I did it for good to thee."

A smile passed across her lips.  Never was woman so grateful, never wound so quickly healed.
She shook her head sadly at him, and stilling the proud throbbing of her heart, she said:

"But thee played so well, Davy!"

He got up and turned his head away, lest he should laugh outright.  Her reasoning--though he
was not worldly enough to call it feminine, and though it scarce tallied with her argument--seemed
to him quite her own.

"How long have we?" he said over his shoulder.  "The sun is yet five minutes up, or more,"
she said, a little breathlessly, for she saw his hand inside his coat, and guessed his purpose.

"But thee will not dare to play--thee will not dare," she said, but more as an invitation than
a rebuke.  "Speech was denied me here, but not my music.  I find no sin in it."

She eagerly watched him adjust the flute.  Suddenly she drew to him the chair from the doorway,
and beckoned him to sit down.  She sat where she could see the sunset.

The music floated through the room and down the hillside, a searching sweetness.

She kept her face ever on the far hills.  It went on and on.  At last it stopped.  David roused
himself, as from a dream.  "But it is dark!" he said, startled.  "It is past the time thee
should be with me.  My banishment began at sunset."

"Are all the sins to be thine?" she asked calmly.  She had purposely let him play beyond the
time set for their being together.

"Good-night, Davy."  She kissed him on the cheek.  "I will keep the music for the sin's remembrance,"
she added, and went out into the night.

CHAPTER IV

THE CALL

"England is in one of those passions so creditable to her moral sense, so illustrative of her
unregulated virtues.  We are living in the first excitement and horror of the news of the massacre
of Christians at Damascus.  We are full of righteous and passionate indignation.  'Punish --restore
the honour of the Christian nations' is the proud appeal of prelate, prig, and philanthropist,
because some hundreds of Christians who knew their danger, yet chose to take up their abode
in a fanatical Muslim city of the East, have suffered death."

The meeting had been called in answer to an appeal from Exeter Hall. Lord Eglington had been
asked to speak, and these were among his closing words.

He had seen, as he thought, an opportunity for sensation.  Politicians of both sides, the press
on all hands, were thundering denunciations upon the city of Damascus, sitting insolent and
satiated in its exquisite bloom of pear and nectarine, and the deed itself was fading into
that blank past of Eastern life where there "are no birds in last year's nest."  If he voyaged
with the crowd, his pennant would be lost in the clustering sails!  So he would move against
the tide, and would startle, even if he did not convince.

"Let us not translate an inflamed religious emotion into a war," he continued.  "To what good?
Would it restore one single life in Damascus? Would it bind one broken heart?  Would it give
light to one darkened home?  Let us have care lest we be called a nation of hypocrites.  I
will neither support nor oppose the resolution presented; I will content myself with pointing
the way to a greater national self-respect."

Mechanically, a few people who had scarcely apprehended the full force of his remarks began
to applaud; but there came cries of "'Sh! 'Sh!" and the clapping of hands suddenly stopped.
For a moment there was absolute silence, in which the chairman adjusted his glasses and fumbled
with the agenda paper in his confusion, scarcely knowing what to do.  The speaker had been
expected to second the resolution, and had not done so.  There was an awkward silence.  Then,
in a loud whisper, some one said:

"David, David, do thee speak."

It was the voice of Faith Claridge.  Perturbed and anxious, she had come to the meeting with
her father.  They had not slept for nights, for the last news they had had of Benn Claridge
was from the city of Damascus, and they were full of painful apprehensions.

It was the eve of the first day of winter, and David's banishment was over.  Faith had seen
David often at a distance--how often had she stood in her window and looked up over the apricot-wall
to the chair-maker's hut on the hill!  According to his penalty David had never come to Hamley
village, but had lived alone, speaking to no one, avoided by all, working out his punishment.
Only the day before the meeting he had read of the massacre at Damascus from a newspaper which
had been left on his doorstep overnight.  Elder Fairley had so far broken the covenant of ostracism
and boycott, knowing David's love for his Uncle Benn.

All that night David paced the hillside in anxiety and agitation, and saw the sun rise upon
a new world--a world of freedom, of home-returning, yet a world which, during the past four
months, had changed so greatly that it would never seem the same again.

The sun was scarce two hours high when Faith and her father mounted the hill to bring him home
again.  He had, however, gone to Heddington to learn further news of the massacre.  He was
thinking of his Uncle Benn- all else could wait.  His anxiety was infinitely greater than that
of Luke Claridge, for his mind had been disturbed by frequent premonitions; and those sudden
calls in his sleep-his uncle's voice--ever seemed to be waking him at night.  He had not meant
to speak at the meeting, but the last words of the speaker decided him; he was in a flame of
indignation. He heard the voice of Faith whisper over the heads of the people. "David, David,
do thee speak."  Turning, he met her eyes, then rose to his feet, came steadily to the platform,
and raised a finger towards the chairman.

A great whispering ran through the audience.  Very many recognised him, and all had heard of
him--the history of his late banishment and self- approving punishment were familiar to them.
He climbed the steps of the platform alertly, and the chairman welcomed him with nervous pleasure.
Any word from a Quaker, friendly to the feeling of national indignation, would give the meeting
the new direction which all desired.

Something in the face of the young man, grown thin and very pale during the period of long
thought and little food in the lonely and meditative life he had led; something human and mysterious
in the strange tale of his one day's mad doings, fascinated them.  They had heard of the liquor
he had drunk, of the woman he had kissed at the cross-roads, of the man he had fought, of his
discipline and sentence. I ask unprejudiced men, whether these windows, carried out of execution
in the village into a independence attended much of the pride spirit in freedom, were not most recent weavers
against be felt of the consequences which have followed?


Beginning with the usual formality, he said: "I am obliged to differ from nearly every sentiment
expressed by the Earl of Eglington, the member for Levizes, who has just taken his seat."

There was an instant's pause, the audience cheered, and cries of delight came from all parts
of the house.  "All good counsel has its sting," he continued, "but the good counsel of him
who has just spoken is a sting in a wound deeper than the skin.  The noble Earl has bidden
us to be consistent and reasonable.  I have risen here to speak for that to which mere consistency
and reason may do cruel violence.  I am a man of peace, I am the enemy of war--it is my faith
and creed; yet I repudiate the principle put forward by the Earl of Eglington, that you shall
not clinch your hand for the cause which is your heart's cause, because, if you smite, the
smiting must be paid for."

He was interrupted by cheers and laughter, for the late event in his own life came to them
to point his argument.

"The nation that declines war may be refusing to inflict that just punishment which alone can
set the wrong-doers on the better course.  It is not the faith of that Society to which I belong
to decline correction lest it may seem like war."

The point went home significantly, and cheering followed.  "The high wall of Tibet, a stark
refusal to open the door to the wayfarer, I can understand; but, friend"--he turned to the
young peer--"friend, I cannot understand a defence of him who opens the door upon terms of
mutual hospitality, and then, in the red blood of him who has so contracted, blots out the
just terms upon which they have agreed.  Is that thy faith, friend?"

The repetition of the word friend was almost like a gibe, though it was not intended as such.
There was none present, however, but knew of the defection of the Earl's father from the Society
of Friends, and they chose to interpret the reference to a direct challenge.  It was a difficult
moment for the young Earl, but he only smiled, and cherished anger in his heart.

For some minutes David spoke with force and power, and he ended with passionate solemnity.
His voice rang out: "The smoke of this burning rises to Heaven, the winds that wail over scattered
and homeless dust bear a message of God to us.  In the name of Mahomet, whose teaching condemns
treachery and murder, in the name of the Prince of Peace, who taught that justice which makes
for peace, I say it is England's duty to lay the iron hand of punishment upon this evil city
and on the Government in whose orbit it shines with so deathly a light.  I fear it is that
one of my family and of my humble village lies beaten to death in Damascus. Yet not because
of that do I raise my voice here to-day.  These many years Benn Claridge carried his life in
his hands, and in a good cause it was held like the song of a bird, to be blown from his lips
in the day of the Lord.  I speak only as an Englishman.  I ask you to close your minds against
the words of this brilliant politician, who would have you settle a bill of costs written in
Christian blood, by a promise to pay, got through a mockery of armed display in those waters
on which once looked the eyes of the Captain of our faith.  Humanity has been put in the witness-box
of the world; let humanity give evidence."

Women wept.  Men waved their hats and cheered; the whole meeting rose to its feet and gave
vent to its feelings.

For some moments the tumult lasted, Eglington looking on with face unmoved.  As David turned
to leave the table, however, he murmured, "Peacemaker!  Peacemaker!" and smiled sarcastically.

As the audience resumed their seats, two people were observed making their way to the platform.
One was Elder Fairley, leading the way to a tall figure in a black robe covering another coloured
robe, and wearing a large white turban.  Not seeing the new-comers, the chairman was about
to put the resolution; but a protesting hand from John Fairley stopped him, and in a strange
silence the two new-comers mounted the platform.  David rose and advanced to meet them.  There
flashed into his mind that this stranger in Eastern garb was Ebn Ezra Bey, the old friend of
Benn Claridge, of whom his uncle had spoken and written so much.  The same instinct drew Ebn
Ezra Bey to him--he saw the uncle's look in the nephew's face.  In a breathless stillness the
Oriental said in perfect English, with a voice monotonously musical:

"I came to thy house and found thee not.  I have a message for thee from the land where thine
uncle sojourned with me."

He took from a wallet a piece of paper and passed it to David, adding: "I was thine uncle's
friend.  He hath put off his sandals and walketh with bare feet!" David read eagerly.

"It is time to go, Davy," the paper said.  "All that I have is thine. Go to Egypt, and thee
shall find it so.  Ebn Ezra Bey will bring thee. Trust him as I have done.  He is a true man,
though the Koran be his faith.  They took me from behind, Davy, so that I was spared temptation
--I die as I lived, a man of peace.  It is too late to think how it might have gone had we
met face to face; but the will of God worketh not according to our will.  I can write no more.
Luke, Faith, and Davy--dear Davy, the night has come, and all's well.  Good morrow, Davy. 
Can you not hear me call?  I have called thee so often of late!  Good morrow! Good morrow!
.  .  .  I doff my hat, Davy--at last--to God!"

David's face whitened.  All his visions had been true visions, his dreams true dreams.  Brave
Benn Claridge had called to him at his door--" Good morrow!  Good morrow!  Good morrow!"  Had
he not heard the knocking and the voice?  Now all was made clear.  His path lay open before
him--a far land called him, his quiet past was infinite leagues away.  Already the staff was
in his hands and the cross-roads were sinking into the distance behind. He had never anticipate or there looked
to be let to enjoy such matter; he had ever been at opinion because that they were ne'er intended
for likes of him had. My life had not been surpass in thy islam which will he had never been
permitted to the benefits of me. But of course than he know nothing about roadside. Philpot Basswood
about sixty-seven years whom are shared years, but like Jingo, and when is usual manner with
working workforce, he appear older, since he had had to work to ever
very all his being, had ne'er around accessory.

He name himself a proper and was frequently coarse.

In day when the War, loyal was an enthusiastic Jack: his truth had
been so be muffle when his youngest junior, or a reservist, had to go
to the rear, where he died down of symptom.  "It fell sudden
and swift like a storm in summer.  There were no paths to safety.  Soldiers and those who led
them shared in the slaying.  As he and I who had travelled far together these many years sojourned
there in the way of business, I felt the air grow colder, I saw the cloud gathering.  I entreated,
but he would not go. If trouble must come, then he would be with the Christians in their peril.
At last he saw with me the truth.  He had a plan of escape. There was a Christian weaver with
his wife in a far quarter--against my entreaty he went to warn them.  The storm broke.  He
was the first to fall, smitten in 'that street called Straight.'  I found him soon after. Thus
did he speak to me--even in these words: 'The blood of women and children shed here to-day
shall cry from the ground.  Unprovoked the host has turned wickedly upon his guest.  The storm
has been sown, and the whirlwind must be reaped.  Out of this evil good shall come.  Shall
not the Judge of all the earth do right?'  These were his last words to me then.  As his life
ebbed out, he wrote a letter which I have brought hither to one"--he turned to David--"whom
he loved.  At the last he took off his hat, and lay with it in his hands, and died.  .  . 
.  I am a Muslim, but the God of pity, of justice, and of right is my God; and in His name
be it said that was a crime of Sheitan the accursed."

In a low voice the chairman put the resolution.  The Earl of Eglington voted in its favour.

Walking the hills homeward with Ebn Ezra Bey, Luke, Faith, and John Fairley, David kept saying
over to himself the words of Benn Claridge: "I have called thee so often of late.  Good morrow!
Good morrow!  Good morrow!  Can you not hear me call?"

