The flitter hung poised in air, motionless, upon softly hissing under-jets. Cloud knew to a
fraction his height above the ground. He knew to a fraction his distance from the vortex. He
knew with equal certainty the density of the atmosphere and the exact velocity and direction
of the wind. Hence, since he could also read closely enough the momentary variations in the
cyclonic storms within the crater, he could compute very easily the course and velocity necessary
to land the bomb in the exact center of the vortex at any given instant of time. The hard part--the
thing that no one had as yet succeeded in doing--was to predict, for a time far enough ahead
to be of any use, a usably close approximation to the vortex's quantitative activity. For,
as has been said, he had to over-blast, rather than under-, if he could not hit it "on the
nose:" to under-blast would scatter it all over the state.

Therefore Cloud concentrated upon the dials and gauges before him; concentrated with every
fiber of his being and every cell of his brain.

Suddenly, almost imperceptibly, the Sigma curve gave signs of flattening out. In that instant
Cloud's mind pounced. Simultaneous equations: nine of them, involving nine unknowns. An integration
in four dimensions. No matter--Cloud did not solve them laboriously, one factor at a time.
Without knowing how he had arrived at it, he knew the answer; just as the Posenian or the Rigellian
is able to perceive every separate component particle of an opaque, three-dimensional solid,
but without being able to explain to anyone how his sense of perception works. It just is,
that's all.

Anyway, by virtue of whatever sense or ability it is which makes a mathematical prodigy what
he is, Cloud knew that in exactly eight and three-tenths seconds from that observed instant
the activity of the vortex would be slightly--but not too far--under the coefficient of his
heaviest bomb. Another flick of his mental trigger and he knew the exact velocity he would
require. His hand swept over the studs, his right foot tramped down, hard, upon the firing
lever; and, even as the quivering flitter shot forward under eight Tellurian gravities of acceleration,
he knew to the thousandth of a second how long he would have to hold that acceleration to attain
that velocity. While not really long--in seconds--it was much too long for comfort. It took
him much closer to the vortex than he wanted to be; in fact, it took him right out over the
crater itself.

But he stuck to the calculated course, and at the precisely correct instant he cut his drive
and released his largest bomb. Then, so rapidly that it was one blur of speed, he again kicked
on his eight G's of drive and started to whirl around as only a speedster or a flitter can
whirl. Practically unconscious from the terrific resultant of the linear and angular accelerations,
he ejected the two smaller bombs. He did not care particularly where they lit, just so they
didn't light in the crater or near the observatory, and he had already made certain of that.
Then, without waiting even to finish the whirl or to straighten her out in level flight, Cloud's
still-flying hand darted toward the switch whose closing would energize the Bergenholm and
make the flitter inertialess.

Too late. Hell was out for noon, with the little speedster still inert. Cloud had moved fast,
too; trained mind and trained body had been working at top speed and in perfect coordination.
There just simply hadn't been enough time. If he could have got what he wanted, ten full seconds,
or even nine, he could have made it, but....

       *       *       *       *       *

In spite of what happened, Cloud defended his action, then and thereafter. Damnitall, he had
to take the eight-point-three second reading! Another tenth of a second and his bomb wouldn't
have fitted--he didn't have the five percent leeway he wanted, remember. And no, he couldn't
wait for another match, either. His screens were leaking like sieves, and if he had waited
for another chance they would have picked him up fried to a greasy cinder in his own lard!

The bomb sped truly and struck the target in direct central impact, exactly as scheduled. It
penetrated perfectly. The neocarballoy casing lasted just long enough--that frightful charge
of duodec exploded, if not exactly at the center of the vortex, at least near enough to the
center to do the work. In other words, Cloud's figuring had been close--very close. But the
time had been altogether too short.

The flitter was not even out of the crater when the bomb went off. And not only the bomb. For
Cloud's vague forebodings were materialized, and more; the staggeringly immense energy of the
vortex merged with that of the detonating duodec to form an utterly incomprehensible whole.

In part the hellish flood of boiling lava in that devil's cauldron was beaten downward into
a bowl by the sheer, stupendous force of the blow; in part it was hurled abroad in masses,
in gouts and streamers. And the raging wind of the explosion's front seized the fragments and
tore and worried them to bits, hurling them still faster along their paths of violence. And
air, so densely compressed as to be to all intents and purposes a solid, smote the walls of
the crater. Smote them so that they crumbled, crushed outward through the hard-packed ground,
broke up into jaggedly irregular blocks which hurtled, screamingly, away through the atmosphere.

Also the concussion wave, or the explosion front, or flying fragments, or something, struck
the two loose bombs, so that they too exploded and added their contribution to the already
stupendous concentration of force. They were not close enough to the flitter to wreck it of
themselves, but they were close enough so that they didn't do her--or her pilot--a bit of good.

The first terrific wave buffeted the flyer while Cloud's right hand was in the air, shooting
across the panel to turn on the Berg. The impact jerked the arm downward and sidewise, both
bones of the forearm snapping as it struck the ledge. The second one, an instant later, broke
his left leg. Then the debris began to arrive.

Chunks of solid or semi-molten rock slammed against the hull, knocking off wings and control-surfaces.
Gobs of viscous slag slapped it liquidly, freezing into and clogging up jets and orifices.
The little ship was hurled hither and yon, in the grip of forces she could no more resist than
can the floating leaf resist the waters of a cataract. And Cloud's brain was as addled as an
egg by the vicious concussions which were hitting him from so many different directions and
so nearly all at once. Nevertheless, with his one arm and his one leg and the few cells of
his brain that were still at work, the physicist was still in the fight.

By sheer force of will and nerve he forced his left hand across the gyrating key-bank to the
Bergenholm switch. He snapped it, and in the instant of its closing a vast, calm peace descended,
blanket-like. For, fortunately, the Berg still worked; the flitter and all her contents and
appurtenances were inertialess. Nothing material could buffet her or hurt her now; she would
waft effortlessly away from a feather's lightest possible touch.

Cloud wanted to faint then, but he didn't--quite. Instead, foggily, he tried to look back at
the crater. Nine-tenths of his visiplates were out of commission, but he finally got a view.
Good--it was out. He wasn't surprised; he had been quite confident that it would be. It wasn't
scattered around, either. It couldn't be, for his only possibility of smearing the shot was
on the upper side, not the lower.

       *       *       *       *       *

His next effort was to locate the secondary observatory, where he had to land, and in that
too he was successful. He had enough intelligence left to realize that, with practically all
of his jets clogged and his wings and tail shot off, he couldn't land his little vessel inert.
Therefore he would have to land her free.

And by dint of light and extremely unorthodox use of what jets he had left in usable shape
he did land her free, almost within the limits of the observatory's field; and having landed,
he inerted her.

But, as has been intimated, his brain was not working so well; he had held his ship inertialess
quite a few seconds longer than he thought, and he did not even think of the buffetings she
had taken. As a result of these things, however, her intrinsic velocity did not match, anywhere
near exactly, that of the ground upon which she lay. Thus, when Cloud cut his Bergenholm, restoring
thereby to the flitter the absolute velocity and inertia she had had before going free, there
resulted a distinctly anti-climactic crash.

There was a last terrific bump as the motionless vessel collided with the equally motionless
ground; and "Storm" Cloud, vortex blaster, went out like the proverbial light.

Help came, of course; and on the double. The pilot was unconscious and the flitter's door could
not be opened from the outside, but those were not insuperable obstacles. A plate, already
loose, was sheared away; the pilot was carefully lifted out of his prison and rushed to Base
Hospital in the "meat-can" already in attendance.

And later, in a private office of that hospital, the gray-clad Chief of the Atomic Research
Laboratory sat and waited--but not patiently.

"How is he, Lacy?" he demanded, as the Surgeon-General entered the room. "He's going to live,
isn't he?"

"Oh, yes, Phil--definitely yes," Lacy replied, briskly. "He has a good skeleton, very good
indeed. The burns are superficial and will yield quite readily to treatment. The deeper, delayed
effects of the radiation to which he was exposed can be neutralized entirely effectively. Thus
he will not need even a Phillips's treatment for the replacement of damaged parts, except possibly
for a few torn muscles and so on."

"But he was smashed up pretty badly, wasn't he? I know that he had a broken arm and a broken
leg, at least."

"Simple fractures only--entirely negligible." Lacy waved aside with an airy gesture such small
ills as broken bones. "He'll be out in a few weeks."

"How soon can I see him?" the Lensman-physicist asked. "There are some important things to
take up with him, and I've got a personal message for him that I must give him as soon as possible."

Lacy pursued his lips. Then:

"You may see him now," he decided. "He is conscious, and strong enough. Not too long, though,
Phil--fifteen minutes at most."

"QX, and thanks," and a nurse led the visiting Lensman to Cloud's bedside.

"Hi, Stupe!" he boomed, cheerfully. "'Stupe' being short for stupendous, not 'stupid'."

"Hi, Chief. Glad to see somebody. Sit down."

"You're the most-wanted man in the Galaxy," the visitor informed the invalid, "not excepting
even Kimball Kinnison. Look at this spool of tape, and it's only the first one. I brought it
along for you to read at your leisure. As soon as any planet finds out that we've got a sure-enough
vortex-blower-outer, an expert who can really call his shots--and the news travels mighty fast--that
planet sends in a double-urgent, Class A-Prime demand for first call upon your services.

"Sirius IV got in first by a whisker, it seems, but Aldebaran II was so close a second that
it was a photo finish, and all the channels have been jammed ever since. Canopus, Vega, Rigel,
Spica. They all want you. Everybody, from Alsakan to Vandemar and back. We told them right
off that we would not receive personal delegations--we had to almost throw a couple of pink-haired
Chickladorians out bodily to make them believe that we meant it--and that the age and condition
of the vortex involved, not priority of requisition, would govern, QX?"

"Absolutely," Cloud agreed. "That's the only way it could be, I should think."

"So forget about this psychic trauma.... No, I don't mean that," the Lensman corrected himself
hastily. "You know what I mean. The will to live is the most important factor in any man's
recovery, and too many worlds need you too badly to have you quit now. Not?"

"I suppose so," Cloud acquiesced, but somberly. "I'll get out of here in short order. And I'll
keep on pecking away until one of those vortices finishes what this one started."

"You'll die of old age then, son," the Lensman assured him. "We got full data--all the information
we need. We know exactly what to do to your screens. Next time nothing will come through except
light, and only as much of that as you feel like admitting. You can wait as close to a vortex
as you please, for as long as you please; until you get exactly the activity and time-interval
that you want. You will be just as comfortable and just as safe as though you were home in bed."

"Sure of that?"

"Absolutely--or at least, as sure as we can be of anything that hasn't happened yet. But I
see that your guardian angel here is eyeing her clock somewhat pointedly, so I'd better be
doing a flit before they toss me down a shaft. Clear ether, Storm!"

"Clear ether, Chief!"

And that is how "Storm" Cloud, atomic physicist, became the most narrowly-specialized specialist
in all the annals of science: how he became "Storm" Cloud, Vortex Blaster--the Galaxy's only
vortex blaster.