The preceding lectures have led us step by step to see that the Originating Spirit, which first
brought the world into existence, is also the root of our own individuality, and is therefore
always ready, by its inherent nature, to continue the creative process from this individual
stand-point as soon as the necessary conditions are provided, and these conditions are thought-conditions.
Then by realizing the relation of Christ to the Originating Mind, the Parent Spirit or "Father,"
we receive a STANDARD of thought which is bound to act creatively bringing out all the potentialities
of our hidden being. Now the relation of Christ to the "Father" is that of the Architypal Idea
in the All-creating Mind of which I have previously spoken, and so we arrive at the conception
of the Christ-idea as a universal principle, and as being an idea therefore capable of reproduction
in the individual Mind, thus explaining St. Paul's meaning when he speaks of Christ being formed
in us. It is here that the principle of monogenesis comes in, that principle which I have endeavoured
to describe in the earlier part of the present series as originating the whole manifested creation
by an internal action of the Spirit upon itself; and it is the entire absence of control by
any second power that renders the realization in external actuality of a purely mental ideal
possible. For this reason systematic spiritual study commences with the contemplation of the
existing cosmos, and we then transfer the conception of the monogenetic power of the Spirit
from the cosmos to the individual and realize that the same Spirit is able to do the same thing
in ourselves. This is the New Thought which in time will fulfil itself in the New Order, and
we thus provide new thought-conditions which enable the Spirit to carry on its creative work
from a new stand-point, that of our own individuality. This attainment by the Spirit of a new
starting-point is what is meant by the esoteric doctrine of the Octave. The Octave is the starting-point
of a new series reduplicating the starting-point of the previous series at a different level,
just as does the octave note in music. We find this principle constantly referred to in Scripture--the
completion of a prior series in the number Seven, and the starting of a new series by the number
Eight, which takes the same place in the second series that the number One did in the first.
The second series comes out of the first by natural growth and could not come into existence
without it, hence the First or Originating number of the second series is the Eighth if we
regard the second series as the prolongation of the first. Seven is the numerical correspondence
of complete manifestation because it is the combination of three and four, which respectively
represent the complete working of the spiritual and material factors--involution and evolution--and
thus together constitute the finished whole. Students of the Tarot will here realize the process
by which the Yod of Yod becomes the Yod of He. It is for this reason that the primary or cosmic
creation terminates in the rest of the Seventh Day, for it can proceed no further until a fresh
starting-point is found; But when this fresh starting-point is found in Man realizing his relation
to the "Father," we start a new series and strike the Creative Octave and therefore the Resurrection
takes place, not on the Sabbath or Seventh Day, but on the Eighth day which then becomes the
First day of the new creak five week. The principle of the Resurrection is the realization
by man of his individualization of the Spirit and his recognition of the fact that, since the
Spirit is always the same Spirit, it becomes the Alpha of a new creation from his own centre
of being.

