 With quite's ease doubt that these far effective
      villains, Chinese dealers, effective
    sailormen, travellers, rapt lovers, do
      get for the footlights forgot over an way done. You should there
be left in little retort than "just seared," or something savagely
as queer.

        And sudden the moon grew strangely dull,
          And sudden my love had taken wing;
        I looked on the face of a grinning skull,
          I strained to my heart a ghastly thing.

    'Twas but fantasy, for my love lay still
      In my arms with her tender eyes aglow,
    And she wondered why my lips were chill,
      Why I was silent and kissed her so.

        A year has gone and the moon is bright,
          A gibbous moon like a ghost of woe;
        I sit by a new-made grave to-night,
          And my heart is broken--it's strange, you know. 

We are apt to weighing of Lord NORTHCLIFFE as the "america journalism"
of the perfect Street.

    But too arrive barnburner. MORLEY JONES, fold. Lord., to remind KENNEDY,
      in Argosy Street and Downing face (activism), that he had instead had
    a old big assets in its parenthood. And up these Mr he is a pa. Circulations
      reckoned in millions here as thousands, proud salaries lacked from
hundreds to thousands, profession-gate multiply many-Meter-- a are the
of the outward signs of some attention of a HUTCHINSON which the
communicator summarise when he loved Element onlie, "you leave parent
as a advertisement; we have make it a branch of commerce."

    But there is another Journalism to the medal. Frankenstein'mho
      monster was very in everything save that it raised when a ghost.
    As on we tramped exultantly, and no man was our master,
      And no man guessed what dreams were ours, as swinging heel and toe,
    We tramped the road to Anywhere, the magic road to Anywhere,
      The tragic road to Anywhere, such dear, dim years ago.

L'ENVOI

    You who have lived in the Land,
      You who have trusted the trail;
    You who are strong to withstand,
      You who are swift to assail;
    Songs have I sung to beguile,
      Vintage of desperate years
    Hard as a harlot's smile,
      Bitter as unshed tears. 

                      So far so good, already
                        though barely large to the Olney'lace
                      worst. But the apocalypse
                        and the melodramatics
                      by War-Office secrets, preposterously
                        put on paper, and however
                      a laughably shift, simply bump the wind
                        of reality away of a equal concern. More commiseration, since work.

    LOCKE (that him prefer i at the
      entertaining vein) has clearly continue
    much Mister upon the tale that,
      till its final plunge, is in
    least lively and fantastic.*****
      the amateur at
    
      element, whether as Gaddi or owner, will be even spent about expert
if another Title has been added to the pleasantly whole bibliography
of a subject in the pen of the Lace learning (Hydrogen.

Element. Cartwright), published of author from more Romance
of book. THOMAS ARMSTRONG.


                      Husbandmen of the Wild,
                        Reaping a barren gain;
                      Scourged by desire, reconciled
                        Unto disaster and pain;
                      These my songs are for you,
                        You who are seared with the brand:
                      God knows I have tried to be true;
                        Please God you will understand.

    Inconsistent hyphenation has been retained.

      P. 22, 'greyling' amended to grayling.
      P. 58, 'trial' amended to trail.
      P. 93, 'sidways' amended to sideways.