Note 1- He who, guided by emotion only, endeavours to cause others to love  what he loves himself,
and to make the rest of the world live according to  his own fancy, acts solely by impulse,
and is, therefore, hateful,  especially, to those who take delight in something different,
and  accordingly study and, by similar impulse, endeavour, to make men live in  accordance
with what pleases themselves. Again, as the highest good sought  by men under the guidance
of emotion is often such, that it can only be  possessed by a single individual, it follows
that those who love it are not  consistent in their intentions, but, while they delight to
sing its praises,  fear to be believed. But he, who endeavours to lead men by reason, does
not  act by impulse but courteously and kindly, and his intention is always  consistent. Again,
whatsoever we desire and do, whereof we are the cause  in so far as we possess the idea of
God, or know God, I set down to  Religion. The desire of well-doing, which is engendered by
a life  according to reason, I call piety. Further, the desire, whereby a  man living according
to reason is bound to associate others with  himself in friendship, I call honour (Honestas);
by honourable I mean  that which is praised by men living according to reason, and by base
I mean that which is repugnant to the gaining of friendship. I have also  shown in addition
what are the foundations of a state; and the difference  between true ,virtue and infirmity
may be readily gathered from what I  have said; namely, that true virtue is nothing else but
living in  accordance with reason; while infirmity is nothing else but man's  allowing himself
to be led by things which are external to himself,  and to be by them determined to act in
a manner demanded by the general  disposition of things rather than by his own nature considered
solely  in itself.

Such are the matters which I engaged to prove in IV:xviii., whereby it  is plain that the law
against the slaughtering of animals is founded rather  on vain superstition and womanish pity
than on sound reason. The rational  quest of what is useful to us further teaches us the necessity
of  associating ourselves with our fellow men, but - not with beasts, or things,  whose nature
is different from our own; we have the same rights in respect  to them as they have in respect
to us. Nay, as everyone's right is defined  by his virtue, or power, men have far greater rights
over beasts than  beasts have over men. Still I do not deny that beasts feel: what I deny is,
that we may not consult our own advantage and use them as we please,  treating them in the
way which best suits us; for their nature is not like  ours, and their emotions are naturally
different from human emotions  (III:Ivii.Note). It remains for me to explain what I mean by,
just and  unjust, sin and merit. On these points see the following note.

Note II.- In the Appendix to Part I. I undertook to explain praise and  blame, merit and sin,
justice and injustice.

Concerning praise and blame I have spoken in III:xxix.Note: the time  has now come to treat
of the remaining terms. But I must first say a few  words concerning man in the state of nature
and in society.

Every man exists by sovereign natural right, and, consequently, by  sovereign natural right
performs those actions which follow from the  necessity of his own nature; therefore by sovereign
natural right every man  judges what is good and what is bad, takes care of his own advantage
according to his own disposition (IV:xix. and IV:xx.), avenges the wrongs  done to him (III:xl.Coroll.
ii.), and endeavours to preserve that which he  loves and to destroy - that which he hates
(III:xxviii.). Now, if men lived  under the guidance of reason, everyone would remain in possession
of this  his right, without any injury being done to his neighbour V:xxxv.Coroll.i.).  But
seeing that they are a prey to their emotions, which far surpass human  power or virtue (IV:vi.),
they are often drawn in different directions, and  being at variance one with another (IV:xxxiii.,
xxxiv.), stand in need of  mutual help (IV:xxxv.Note). Wherefore, in order that men may live
together  in harmony, and may aid one another, it is necessary that they should  forego their
natural right, and, for the sake of security, refrain from  all actions which can injure their
fellow-men. The way in which this end  can be obtained, so that men who are necessarily a prey
to their emotions  (IV:iv.Coroll.), inconstant, and diverse, should be able to render each
other mutually secure, and feel mutual trust, is evident from IV:vii. and  III:xxxix. It is
there shown, that an emotion can only be restrained by an  emotion stronger than, and contrary
to itself, and that men avoid inflicting  injury through fear of incurring a greater injury
themselves.

On this law society can be established, so long as it keeps in its own  hand the right, possessed
by everyone, of avenging injury, and pronouncing  on good and evil; and provided it also possesses
the power to lay down a  general rule of conduct, and to pass laws sanctioned, not by reason,
which  is powerless in restraining emotion, but by threats (IV:xvii.Note). Such a  society
established with laws and the power of preserving itself is called  a State, while those who
live under its protection are called citizens. We  may readily understand that there is in
the state of nature nothing, which  by universal consent is pronounced good or bad; for in
the state of nature  everyone thinks solely of his own advantage, and according to his  disposition,
with reference only to his individual advantage, decides  what is good or bad, being bound
by no law to anyone besides himself.

In the state of nature, therefore, sin is inconceivable; it can only  exist in a state, where
good and evil are pronounced on by common consent,  and where everyone is bound to obey the
State authority. Sin, then,  is nothing else but disobedience, which is therefore punished
by the right  of the State only. Obedience, on the other hand, is set down as merit,  inasmuch
as a man is thought worthy of merit, if he takes delight in the  advantages which a State provides.

Again, in the state of nature, no one is by common consent master of  anything, nor is there
anything in nature, which can be said to belong to  one man rather than another: all things
are common to all. Hence, in the  state of nature, we can conceive no wish to render to every
man his own,  or to deprive a man of that which belongs to him; in other words, there is  nothing
in the state of nature answering to justice and injustice. Such  ideas are only possible in
a social state, when it is decreed by common  consent what belongs to one man and what to another.

From all these considerations it is evident, that justice and  injustice, sin and merit, are
extrinsic ideas, and not attributes which  display the nature of the mind. But I have said enough.

Prop. XXXVIII. Whatsoever disposes the human  body, so as to render it capable of being  affected
in an increased number of ways, or  of affecting external bodies in an increased  number of
ways, is useful to man ; and is so,  in proportion as the body is thereby rendered  more capable
of being affected or affecting  other bodies in an increased number of ways;  contrariwise,
whatsoever renders the body less  capable in this respect is hurtful to man.

Proof.- Whatsoever thus increases the capabilities of the body increases  also the mind's capability
of perception (II:xiv.); therefore, whatsoever  thus disposes the body and thus renders it
capable, is necessarily good or  useful (IV:xxvi., IV:xxvii.); and is so in proportion to the
extent to  which it can render the body capable; contrariwise (II:xiv., IV:xxvi.,  IV:xxvii.),
it is hurtful, if it renders the body in this respect less  capable. Q.E.D.

Prop. XXXIX. Whatsoever brings about  the preservation of the proportion of  motion and rest,
which the parts of  the human body mutually possess, is  good; contrariwise, whatsoever causes
a change in such proportion is bad.

Proof.- The human body needs many other bodies for its preservation  (II:Post.iv.). But that
which constitutes the specific reality (forma)  of a human body is, that its parts communicate
their several motions  one to another in a certain fixed proportion (Def. before Lemma iv.
after  II:xiii.). Again, whatsoever brings about a change in the  aforesaid proportion causes
the human body to assume another specific  character, in other words (see Preface to this Part
towards the end,  though the point is indeed self-evident), to be destroyed, and  consequently
totally incapable of being affected in an increased  numbers of ways; therefore it is bad. Q.E.D.

Note.- The extent to which such causes can injure or be of service to the  mind will be explained
in the Fifth Part. But I would here remark that I  consider that a body undergoes death, when
the proportion of motion and  rest which obtained mutually among its several parts is changed.
For I do  not venture to deny that a human body, while keeping the circulation of  the blood
and other properties, wherein the life of a body is thought to  consist, may none the less
be changed into another nature totally different  from its own. There is no reason, which compels
me to maintain that a body  does not die, unless it becomes a corpse; nay, experience would
seem to  point to the opposite conclusion. It sometimes happens, that a man  undergoes such
changes, that I should hardly call him the same. As I have  heard tell of a certain Spanish
poet, who had been seized with sickness,  and though he recovered therefrom yet remained so
oblivious of his past  life, that he would not believe the plays and tragedies he had  written
to be his own: indeed, he might have been taken for a grown-up  child, if he had also forgotten
his native tongue. If this instance seems  incredible, what shall we say of infants? A man
of ripe age deems their  nature so unlike his own, that he can only be persuaded that he too
has  been an infant by the analogy of other men. However, I prefer to leave such  questions
undiscussed, lest I should give ground to the superstitious for  raising new issues.

Prop. XL. Whatsoever conduces to man's  social life, or causes men to live  together in harmony,
is useful, whereas  whatsoever brings discord into a State is bad.

Proof.- For whatsoever causes men to live together in harmony also causes  them to live according
to reason (IV:xxxv.), and is therefore (IV:xxvi.  and IV:xxvii.) good, and (for the same reason)
whatsoever brings about  discord is bad. Q.E.D.

Prop. XLI. Pleasure in itself is not  bad but good: contrariwise, pain in  itself is bad.

Proof.- Pleasure (III:xi.&Note) is emotion, whereby the body's power of  activity is increased
or helped; pain is emotion, whereby the body's power  of activity is diminished or checked;
therefore (IV:xxxviii.) pleasure in  itself is good, &c. Q.E.D.

Prop. XLII. Mirth cannot be excessive,  but is always good; contrariwise,  Melancholy is always
bad.

