During this disastrous journey we lost all those, not of our own family, to whom we had particularly
attached ourselves among the survivors. It were not well to fill these pages with a mere catalogue
of losses; yet I cannot refrain from this last mention of those principally dear to us. The
little girl whom Adrian had rescued from utter desertion, during our ride through London on
the twentieth of November, died at Auxerre. The poor child had attached herself greatly to
us; and the suddenness of her death added to our sorrow. Stall barn and were put in order, fences erected, the silted Fountain dug deeper, the cattle
improved, new furniture, new plows, obtained new servants and the house received a new roof.
 She had devoted herself
throughout to the nursing the sick, and attending the friendless. Her excessive exertions brought
on a slow fever, which ended in the dread disease whose approach soon released her from her
sufferings. She had throughout been endeared to us by her good qualities, by her ready and
cheerful execution of every duty, and mild acquiescence in every turn of adversity. When we
consigned her to the tomb, we seemed at the same time to bid a final adieu to those peculiarly
feminine virtues conspicuous in her; uneducated and unpretending as she was, she was distinguished
for patience, forbearance, and sweetness. These, with all their train of qualities peculiarly
English, would never again be revived for us. Podolin itself is located on the gently sloping side of the hill, but to the
south to hard approach built on the river, so that the main street of the village near the figure
S has a # #. All around stretches wavy-level land that is not overly abundant with tree and
Busch appears covered.

Between the village and the Anson-yard, spread a house-less, barren strip of land. Only a great
room space was on the river bank and he poured the summer and winter,
the smell of fresh- hewn from tree trunks. Such a circumstance had often occurred during our journey, when I remained behind
to watch to their close the last moments of some one of our hapless comrades, and the rest
of the troop past on before me. But there was something in the manner of her messenger, that
made me suspect that all was not right. A caprice of the imagination caused me to conjecture
that some ill had occurred to Clara or Evelyn, rather than to this aged lady. Our fears, for
ever on the stretch, demanded a nourishment of horror; and it seemed too natural an occurrence,
too like past times, for the old to die before the young. She had the pleasure of the sociability and loved
all those joys, which you could gain the wealth of her husband. Alfred Anson was one of the great
coal-owners of the Ostrava district was. However, had forced him to his business, much of the year
in the sad, grimy city spend, but then the more beautiful was the contrast to that in Vienna,
in the mountains or on Travel time spent. From such a journey, the family, man, woman and
child, at first December after Ostrava back. The winter night, they were traveling towards, sealed
the fate of the three people. Fifteen minutes before the finish ran the train on the wrong track
and crashed in its turf against a passenger train coming from Silesia.


"Do you not perceive death in my face," replied she, "it is strange; I ought to have expected
this, and yet I confess it has taken me unaware. I never clung to life, or enjoyed it, till
these last months, while among those I senselessly deserted: and it is hard to be snatched
immediately away. I am glad, however, that I am not a victim of the plague; probably I should
have died at this hour, though the world had continued as it was in my youth."

She spoke with difficulty, and I perceived that she regretted the necessity of death, even
more than she cared to confess. Yet she had not to complain of an undue shortening of existence;
her faded person shewed that life had naturally spent itself. We had been alone at first; now
Clara entered; the Countess turned to her with a smile, and took the hand of this lovely child;
her roseate palm and snowy fingers, contrasted with relaxed fibres and yellow hue of those
of her aged friend; she bent to kiss her, touching her withered mouth with the warm, full lips
of youth. "Verney," said the Countess, "I need not recommend this dear girl to you, for your
own sake you will preserve her. Were the world as it was, I should have a thousand sage precautions
to impress, that one so sensitive, good, and beauteous, might escape the dangers that used
to lurk for the destruction of the fair and excellent. This is all nothing now.

"I commit you, my kind nurse, to your uncle's care; to yours I entrust the dearest relic of
my better self. Be to Adrian, sweet one, what you have been to me--enliven his sadness with
your sprightly sallies; sooth his anguish by your sober and inspired converse, when he is dying;
nurse him as you have done me."

Clara burst into tears; "Kind girl," said the Countess, "do not weep for me. Many dear friends
are left to you."

"And yet," cried Clara, "you talk of their dying also. This is indeed cruel --how could I live,
if they were gone? 

Mrs Anson

First Chapter

Between Podolin and Lomnitz, where the level insignificant to one from a shallow depression
Hillock stands, was the Anson-yard. The residential building was leaning against the back of
the wild Hedge, the spacious park-like garden limited. The house,
with whitewashed Walls drilled deep into the earth appeared, by a
stone staircase leading to the gate and zopfigen the decorations around
the windows squares as a cross between farmers and mansion. The crown of England
had pressed her brow; the memory of my father and his misfortunes, the vain struggles of the
late king, the images of Raymond, Evadne, and Perdita, who had lived in the world's prime,
were brought vividly before us. We consigned her to the oblivious tomb with reluctance; and
when I turned from her grave, Janus veiled his retrospective face; that which gazed on future
generations had long lost its faculty.

