LADY HESTER;

OR,

URSULA'S NARRATIVE.

by

CHARLOTTE M. YONGE

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.     SAULT ST. PIERRE

CHAPTER II.    TREVORSHAM

CHAPTER III.   THE PEERAGE CASE

CHAPTER IV.    SKIMPING'S FARM

CHAPTER V.     SPINNEY LAWN

CHAPTER VI.    THE WHITE DOE'S WARNING

CHAPTER VII.   HUNTING

CHAPTER VIII.  DUCK SHOOTING

CHAPTER IX.    TREVOR'S LEGACY

CHAPTER I.

SAULT ST. PIERRE.

I write this by desire of my brothers and sisters, that if any reports of our strange family
history should come down to after generations the thing may be properly understood.

The old times at Trevorsham seem to me so remote, that I can hardly believe that we are the
same who were so happy then.  Nay, Jaquetta laughs, and declares that it is not possible to
be happier than we have been since, and Fulk would have me remember that all was not always
smooth even in those days.

Perhaps not--for him, at least, dear fellow, in those latter times; but when I think of the
old home, the worst troubles that rise before me are those of the back-board and the stocks,
French in the school-room, and Miss Simmonds' "Lady Ursula, think of your position!"

And as to Jaquetta, she was born under a more benignant star.  Nobody could have put a back-board
on her any more than on a kitten.

Our mother had died (oh! how happily for herself!) when Jaquetta was a baby, and Miss Simmonds
most carefully ruled not only over us, but over Adela Brainerd, my father's ward, who was brought
up with us because she had no other relation in the world.

Besides, my father wished her to marry one of my brothers.  It would have done very well for
either Torwood or Bertram, but unluckily, as it seemed, neither of them could take to the notion.
She was a dear little thing, to be sure, and we were all very fond of her; but, as Bertram
said, it would have been like marrying Jaquetta, and Torwood had other views, to which my father
would not then listen.

Then Bertram's regiment was ordered to Canada, and that was the real cause of it all, though
we did not know it till long after.

Bertram was starting out on a sporting expedition with a Canadian gentleman, when about ten
miles from Montreal they halted at a farm with a good well-built house, named Sault St. Pierre,
all looking prosperous and comfortable, and a young farmer, American in his ways--free-spoken,
familiar, and blunt--but very kindly and friendly, was at work there with some French-Canadian
labourers.

Bertram's friend knew him and often halted there on hunting expeditions, so they went into
the house--very nicely furnished, a pretty parlour with muslin curtains, a piano, and everything
pleasant; and Joel Lea called his wife, a handsome, fair young woman. Bertram says from the
first she put him in mind of some one, and he was trying to make out who it could be.  Then
came the wife's mother, a neat little delicate, bent woman, with dark eyes, that looked, Bertram
said, as if they had had some great fright and never recovered it.  They called her Mrs. Dayman.

She was silent at first, and only helped her daughter and the maid to get the dinner, and an
excellent dinner it was; but she kept on looking at Bertram, and she quite started when she
heard him called Mr. Trevor. When they were just rising up, and going to take leave, she came
up to him in a frightened agitated manner, as if she could not help it, and said--

"Sir, you are so like a gentleman I once knew.  Was any relation of yours ever in Canada?"

"My father was in Canada," answered Bertram.

"Oh no," she said then, very much affected, "the Captain Trevor I knew was killed in the Lake
Campaign in 1814.  It must be a mistake, yet you put me in mind of him so strangely."

Then Bertram protested that she must mean my father, for that he had been a captain in the
--th, and had been stationed at York (as Toronto was then called), but was badly wounded in
repulsing the American attack on the Lakes in 1814.

"Not dead?" she asked, with her cheeks getting pale, and a sort of excitement about her, that
made Bertram wonder, at the moment, if there could have been any old attachment between them,
and he explained how my father was shipped off from England between life and death; and how,
when he recovered, he found his uncle dying, and the title and property coming to him.

"And he married!" she said, with a bewildered look; and Bertram told her that he had married
Lady Mary Lupton--as his uncle and father had wished--and how we four were their children.
I can fancy how kindly and tenderly Bertram would speak when he saw that she was anxious and
pained; and she took hold of his hand and held him, and when he said something of mentioning
that he had seen her, she cried out with a sort of terror, "Oh no, no, Mr. Trevor, I beg you
will not.  Let him think me dead, as I thought him."  And then she drew down Bertram's tall
head to her, and fairly kissed his forehead, adding, "I could not help it, sir; an old woman's
kiss will do you no harm!"

Then he went away.  He never did tell us of the meeting till long after.  He was not a great
letter writer, and, besides, he thought my father might not wish to have the flirtations of
his youth brought up against him.  So we little knew!

But it seems that the daughter and son-in-law were just as much amazed as Bertram, and when
he was gone, and the poor old lady sank into her chair and burst out crying, and as they came
and asked who or what this was, she sobbed out, "Your brother Hester!  Oh! so like him--my
husband!" or something to that effect, as unawares.  She wanted to take it back again, but
of course Hester would not let her, and made her tell the whole.

It seems that her name was Faith Le Blanc; she was half English, half French-Canadian, and
lived in a village in a very unsettled part, where Captain Trevor used to come to hunt, and
where he made love to her, and ended by marrying her--with the knowledge of her family and
his brother officers, but not of his family--just before he was ordered to the Lake frontier.
The war had stirred up the Indians to acts of violence they had not committed for many years,
and a tribe of them came down on the village, plundering, burning, killing, and torturing those
whom they had known in friendly intercourse.

Faith Le Blanc had once given some milk to a papoose upon its mother's back, and perhaps for
this reason she was spared, but everyone belonging to her was, she believed, destroyed, and
she was carried away by the tribe, who wanted to make her one of themselves; and she knew that
if she offended them, such horrors as she had seen practised on others would come on her.

However, they had gone to another resort of theirs, where there was a young hunter who often
visited them, and was on friendly terms.  When he found that there was a white woman living
as a captive among them, he spared no effort to rescue her.  Both he and she were often in
exceeding danger; but he contrived her escape at last, and brought her through the woods to
a place of safety, and there her child was born.

It was over the American frontier, and it was long before she could write to her husband. 
She never knew what became of her letter, but the hunter friend, Piers Dayman, showed her an
American paper which mentioned Captain Trevor among the officers killed in their attack. Dayman
was devoted to her, and insisted on marrying her, and bringing up her daughter as his own.
I fancy she was a woman of gentle passive temper, and had been crushed and terrified by all
she had gone through, so as to have little instinct left but that of clinging to the protector
who had taken her up when she had lost everything else; and she married him.  Nor did Hester
guess till that very day that Piers Dayman was not her father!

There were other children, sons who have given themselves to hunting and trapping in the Hudson's
Bay Company's territory; but Hester remained the only daughter, and they educated her well,
sending her to a convent at Montreal, where she learnt a good many accomplishments. They were
not Roman Catholics; but it was the only way of getting an education.

Dayman must have been a warm-hearted, tenderly affectionate person. Hester loved him very much.
But he had lived a wild sportsman's life, and never was happy at rest.  They changed home often;
and at last he was snowed up and frozen to death, with one of his boys, on a bear hunting expedition.

Not very long after, Hester married this sturdy American, Joel Lea, who had bought some land
on the Canadian side of the border, and her mother came home to live with them.  They had been
married four or five years, but none of their children had lived.

So it was when the discovery came upon poor old Mrs. Dayman (I do not know what else to call
her), that Fulk Torwood Trevor, the husband of her youth, was not dead, but was Earl of Trevorsham;
married, and the father of four children in England.

Poor old thing!  She would have buried her secret to the last, as much in pity and love to
him as in shame and grief for herself; and consideration, too, for the sons, for whom the discovery
was only less bad than for us, as they had less to lose.  Hester herself hardly fully understood
what it all involved, and it only gradually grew on her.

That winter her mother fell ill, and Mr. Lea felt it right that the small property she had
had for her life should be properly secured to her sons, according to the division their father
had intended.  So a lawyer was brought from Montreal and her will was made.  Thus another person
knew about it, and he was much struck, and explained to Hester that she was really a lady of
rank, and probably the only child of her father who had any legal claim to his estates.  Lea,
with a good deal of the old American Republican temper, would not be stirred up. He despised
lords and ladies, and would none of it; but the lawyer held that it would be doing wrong not
to preserve the record.  Hester had grown excited, and seconded him; and one day, when Lea
was out, the lawyer brought a magistrate to take Mrs. Dayman's affidavit as to all her past
history--marriage witnesses and all.  She was a good deal overcome and agitated, and quite
implored Hester never to use the knowledge against her father; but she must have been always
a passive, docile being, and they made her tell all that was wanted, and sign her deposition,
as she had signed her will, as Faith Trevor, commonly known as Faith Dayman.

She did not live many days after.  It was on the 3rd of February, 1836, that she died; and
in the course of the summer Hester had a son, who throve as none of her babies had done.

Then she lay and brooded over him and the rights she fancied he was deprived of, till she worked
herself up to a strong and fixed purpose, and insisted upon making all known to her father.
Now that her mother was gone she persuaded herself that he had been a cruel, faithless tyrant,
who had wilfully deserted his young wife.

Joel Lea would not listen to her.  Why should she wish to make his son a good-for-nothing English
lord?  That was his view.  Nothing but misery, distress, and temptation could come of not letting
things alone.  He held to that, and there were no means forthcoming either of coming to England
to present herself.  The family were well to do, but had no ready money to lay out on a passage
across the Atlantic. Nor would Hester wait.  She had persuaded herself that a letter would
be suppressed, even if she had known how to address it; but to claim her son's rights, and
make an earl of him, had become her fixed idea, and she began laying aside every farthing in
her power.

In this she was encouraged, not by the lawyer who had made the will--and who, considering that
poor Faith's witnesses had been destroyed, and her certificate and her wedding ring taken from
her by the Indians, thought that the marriage could not be substantiated--but by a clever young
clerk, who had managed to find out the state of things; a man named Perrault, who used to come
to the farm, always when Lea was out, and talk her into a further state of excitement about
her child's expectations, and the injuries she was suffering. It was her one idea.  She says
she really believes she should have gone mad if the saving had not occupied her; and a very
dreary life poor Joel must have had whilst she was scraping together the passage-money.  He
still steadily and sternly disapproved the whole, and when at two years' end she had put together
enough to bring her and her boy home, and maintain them there for a few weeks, he still refused
to go with her.  The last thing he said was, "Remember, Hester, what was the price of all the
kingdoms of the world!  Thou wilt have it, then!  Would that I could say, my blessing go with
thee."  And he took his child, and held him long in his arms, and never spoke one word over
him but, "My poor boy!"

CHAPTER II.

TREVORSHAM

I suppose I had better tell what we had been doing all this time. Adela and I had come out,
and had a season or two in London, and my father had enjoyed our pleasure in it, and paid a
good deal of court to our pretty Adela, because there was no driving Torwood into anything
warmer than easy brotherly companionship.

In fact, Torwood had never cared for anyone but little Emily Deerhurst. Once he had come to
her rescue, when she was only nine or ten years old, and her schoolboy cousins were teasing
her, and at every Twelfth-day party since she and he had come together as by right. There was
something irresistible in her great soft plaintive brown eyes, though she was scarcely pretty
otherwise, and we used to call her the White Doe of Rylstone.  Torwood was six or seven years
older, and no one supposed that he seriously cared for her, till she was sixteen. Then, when
my father spoke point blank to him about Adela, he was driven into owning what he wished.

My father thought it utter absurdity.  The connection was not pleasant to him; Mrs. Deerhurst
was always looked on as a designing widow, who managed to marry off her daughters cleverly,
and he could believe no good of Emily.

Now Adela always had more power with papa than any of us.  She had a coaxing way, which his
stately old-school courtesy never could resist. She used when we were children to beg for holidays,
and get treats for us; and even now, many a request which we should never have dared to utter,
she could, with her droll arch way, make him think the most sensible thing in the world.

What odd things people can do who have lived together like brothers and sisters!  I can hardly
help laughing when I think of Torwood coming disconsolately up from the library, and replying,
in answer to our vigorous demands, that his lordship had some besotted notion past all reason.

Then we pressed him harder--Adela with indignation, and I with sympathy--till we forced out
of him that he had been forbidden ever to think or speak again of Emily, and all his faith
in her laughed to scorn, as delusions induced by Mrs. Deerhurst.

"I'm sure I hope you'll take Ormerod, Adela," I remember he ended; "then at least you would
be out of the way."

For Sir John Ormerod's courtship was an evident fact to all the family, as, indeed, Adela was
heiress enough to be a good deal troubled with suitors, though she had hitherto managed to
make them all keep their distance.

Adela laughed at him for his kind wishes, but I could see she meant to plead for him.  She
had her chance, for Sir John Ormerod brought matters to a crisis at the next ball; and though
she thought, as she said, "she had settled him," he followed it up with her guardian, and Adela
was invited to a conference in the library.

It happened that as she ran upstairs, all in a glow, she came on Torwood at the landing.  She
couldn't help saying in her odd half-laughing, half-crying voice--

"It will come right, Torwood; I've made terms, I'm out of your way."

"Not Ormerod!" he exclaimed.

"Oh! no, no!"  I can hear her dash of scorn now, for I was just behind my brother, but she
went on out of breath--

"You may go on seeing her, provided you don't say a word--till--till she's been out two years."

"Adela! you queen of girls, how have you done it?" he began, but she thrust him aside and flew
up into my arms; and when I had her in her own room it came out, I hardly know how, that she
had so shown that she cared for no one she had ever seen except my father, that they found
they did love each other; and--and--in short they were going to be married.

Really it seemed much less wonderful then than it does in thinking of it afterwards.  My father
was much handsomer than any young man I ever saw, with a hawk nose, a clear rosy skin, pure
pink and white like a boy's, curly little rings of white hair, blue eyes clear and bright as
the sky, a tall upright soldierly figure, and a magnificent stately bearing, courteous and
grand to all, but sweetly tender to a very few, and to her above all.  It always had been so
ever since he had brought her home an orphan of six years old from her mother's death-bed at
Nice.  And he was youthful, could ride or hunt all day without so much fatigue as either of
his sons, and was as fresh and eager in all his ways as a lad.

And she, our pretty darling!  I don't think Torwood and I in the least felt the incongruity
of her becoming our step-mother, only that papa was making her more entirely his own.

I am glad we did not mar the sunshine.  It did not last long.  She came home thoroughly unwell
from their journey to Switzerland, and never got better.  By the time the spring had come round
again, she was lying in the vault at Trevorsham, and we were trying to keep poor little Alured
alive and help my poor father to bear it.

He was stricken to the very heart, and never was the same man again. His age seemed to come
upon him all at once; and whereas at sixty-five he had been like a man ten years younger, he
suddenly became like one ten years older; and though he never was actually ill, he failed from
month to month.

He could not bear the sight or sound of the poor baby.  Poor Adela had scarcely lived to hear
it was a boy, and all she had said about it was, "Ursula, you'll be his mother."  And, oh!
I have tried.  If love would do it, I think he could not be more even to dear Adela!

What a frail little life it was!  What nights and days we had with him; doctors saying that
skill could not do it, but care might; and nurses knowing how to be more effective than I could
be; yet while I durst not touch him I could not bear not to see him.  And I do think I was
the first person he began to know.

Meantime, there was a great difference in Torwood.  He had been very much of a big boy hitherto.
No one but myself could have guessed that he cared for much besides a lazy kind of enjoyment
of all the best and nicest things in this world.  He did what he was told, but in an uninterested
sort of way, just as if politics and county business, and work at the estate, were just as
much tasks thrust on him as Virgil and Homer had been; and put his spirit into sporting, &c.

But when he was allowed to think hopefully of Emily, it seemed to make a man of him, and he
took up all that he had to do, as if it really concerned him, and was not only a burden laid
on him by his father.

