 Historical Books.
     1815. BALOOCHI     "         Three Gospels.
     1818. TELUGOO      "         and Pentateuch in 1820.
     1822. KANARESE     "         only.
           MALDIVIAN--Four Gospels.

                EDITED AND PRINTED ONLY BY CAREY

  Persian.                         Singhalese.
  Hindostani.                      Chinese (Dr. Marshman's).
  Malayalam.                       Javanese.
  Burmese--Matthew's Gospel.       Malay.

[17] Life and Work in Benares and Kumaon, 1839-77. London, 1884.

[18] Mr. John Marshman, in his Life and Times of the three, states that Fry and Figgins, the
London typefounders, would not produce under £700 half the Nagari fount which the Serampore
native turned out at about £100.  In 1813 Dr. Marshman's Chinese Gospels were printed on movable
metallic types, instead of the immemorial wooden blocks, for the first time in the twenty centuries
of the history of Chinese printing.  This forms an era in the history of Chinese literature,
he justly remarks.

[19] The fervent printer thus wrote to his Hull friends:--"To give to a man a New Testament
who never saw it, who has been reading lies as the Word of God; to give him these everlasting
lines which angels would be glad to read--this, this is my blessed work."

[20] In 1795 Captain Dodds, a Madras officer front Scotland, translated part of the Bible into
Telugoo, and, lingering on in the country to complete the work, died seven days after the date
of his letter on the subject in the Missionary Magazines of 1796.

[21] Then Editor of the Friend of India.

[22] The Chaitanya Charita Amrita, by Krishna Dass in 1557, was the first of importance.

[23] Nor was his influence confined to the Protestant division of Christendom.  When, on the
Restoration of 1815, France became once more aggressively Romanist for a time, the Association
for the Propagation of the Faith was founded at Lyons and Paris, avowedly on the model of the
Baptist Missionary Society, and it now raises a quarter of a million sterling a year for its
missions.  The expression in an early number of its Annales is:--"C'est l'Angleterre qui a
fourni l'idée modèle," etc. "La Société des Anabaptistes a formé pour ses Missions des Sociétés,"
etc.

[24] Life of Alexander Duff, D.D., LL.D., chapter I.

[25] Fuller more than once referred to the dying words of Sutcliff--"I wish I had prayed more."
"I do not suppose he wished he had prayed more frequently, but more spiritually.  I wish I
had prayed more for the influences of the Holy Spirit; I might have enjoyed more of the power
of vital godliness.  I wish I had prayed more for the assistance of the Holy Spirit in studying
and preaching my sermons; I might have seen more of the blessing of God attending my ministry.
I wish I had prayed more for the outpouring of the Holy Spirit to attend the labours of our
friends in India; I might have witnessed more of the effects of their efforts in the conversion
of the heathen."

[26] The Baptist missionary, who became an Arian, and was afterwards employed by Lord William
Bentinck to report on the actual state of primary education in Bengal.

[27] The first India chaplain of the Church of Scotland, superintendent of stationery and editor
of the John Bull.--See Life of Alexander Duff, D.D.

[28] His Majesty's Lord Chamberlain formally expressed to the British Minister at Copenhagen,
H.E. the Hon. Edmund Monson, C.B., the King's high pleasure at "the author's noble expressions
of the good his pre-possessors of the throne and the government of Denmark tried to do for
their Indian subjects," when the first edition of this Life of William Carey, D.D., was presented
to His Majesty.--See Taylor and Son's Biographical and Literary Notices of William Carey, D.D.,
Northampton, 1886.

