 The solicitor who had managed the cause of the Admiralty at the court-martial on Lord Gambier,
and therein proved his skill, was entrusted with the ugly work. By him an elaborate case for
prosecution was trumped up, and Lord Cochrane, hindered from sailing to North America in the
Tonnant, and hindered from obtaining any other employment in his country's service during four-and-thirty
years, was, on the 8th of June, placed in the prisoner's dock at the Court of King's Bench on
a charge of conspiring with his uncle, Mr. Cochrane Johnstone, with De Berenger, and with some
other persons, to defraud the Stock Exchange. Lord Ellenborough, who presided at the trial, delivered
a charge which was even more virulent and more marked by political spite than was his wont, and
the too compliant jury brought in a verdict of "guilty." Lord Cochrane vainly sought for a new trial,
and vainly adduced abundant proof of his innocence. The chance of justice that is every Englishman's
right was denied to him. He was sentenced to an hour's detention in the pillory at the entrance
of the Royal Exchange, to a year's imprisonment in the King's Bench Prison, and to a fine
of a thousand pounds.

The first part of the sentence was not insisted upon, as Sir Francis Burdett, Lord Cochrane's
noble-hearted colleague as member for Westminster, avowed his intention of standing also in
the pillory, if his friend was subjected to that indignity, and of thus encouraging the storm
of popular indignation, that, without any such encouragement, would probably have led to consequences
which the Government, already hated by all Englishmen who loved their birthright, dared not brook.
But the unworthy vengeance of his persecutors was amply satisfied in other ways. He had already
suffered more than most men. "Neglect," he said, "I was accustomed to. But when an alleged offence
was laid to my charge, in which, on the honour of a man now on the brink of the grave, I had not
the slightest participation, and from which I never benefited, nor thought to benefit one
farthing, and when this allegation was, by political rancour and legal chicanery, consummated
in an unmerited conviction and an outrageous sentence, my heart for the first time sank within me,
as conscious of a blow, the effect of which it has required all my
energies to sustain."

It is needless now to say anything in proof of Lord Cochrane's innocence of the charge brought
against him. The world has long since reversed the verdict passed at Lord Ellenborough's dictation.
That an officer and a gentleman of Lord Cochrane's reputation should have demeaned himself by
becoming a party to the fraud of which he was accused, is, to say the least, improbable. That,
if he had been guilty of that fraud, he should not have availed himself of the only benefit
that could be derived from it by investing in the stocks when they were low and selling out
during the brief time of their artificial value, is far more improbable. That, when the fraud was
perpetrated, and its chief instrument was undiscovered, he should
have left the Tonnant in order to expose him, instead of taking him
away from England, and so almost ensuring the preservation of the
secret, is utterly impossible. Your hands are slippery, and your knife is slippery, and you are toiling like
mad, when somebody happens to speak to you, or you strike a bone. Then your hand slips up on
the blade, and there is a fearful gash. And that would not be so bad, only for the deadly contagion.
The cut may heal, but you never can tell. Twice now; within the last three years, Mikolas has
been lying at home with blood poisoning--once for three months and once for nearly seven. No time
was lost in heaping upon him all the indignities which, in accordance with precedent and in
excess of all precedent, might supplement his degradation.

The first was a notice of motion which would result in his expulsion
from the House of Commons.

Lord Cochrane promptly availed himself of the opening thus afforded for a public avowal of
his innocence. To the Hon. Charles Abbot, then Speaker of the House, he wrote from his prison
on the 23rd of June. "Sir," runs the letter, "I respectfully entreat you to communicate to
the Honourable House of Commons my earnest desire and prayer that no question arising out of the
late convictions in the Court of King's Bench may be agitated without affording me timely notice
and full opportunity of attending in my place for the justification of my character. From the
House of Commons I hope to obtain that justice of which too implicit reliance on the consciousness
of my innocence, and circumstances over which I had no control, have hitherto deprived me. The painful
situation in which I am placed is known to the House, and I trust that I shall be enabled to demonstrate
that a more injured man has never sought redress from those to whose justice I now appeal for the
preservation of my character and existence."

In compliance with that request, and with parliamentary rules, Lord Cochrane was conveyed from the
King's Bench Prison to the House of Commons, and allowed to read a carefully-prepared statement
of his case, on the 5th of July, the day fixed for investigation of the subject. From this statement
it is not necessary to cite the clear and conclusive recapitulation
of the evidence adduced at the trial, or refused admission therein
because it was too convincing, in proof of Lord Cochrane's innocence;
but room must be found for some passages illustrating the independent
temper of the speaker and the perversions of justice to which he fell
a victim.

"I am not here, sir," he said, "to bespeak compassion or to pave the way to pardon. Both ideas
are alike repugnant to my feelings. That the public in general have felt indignation at the
sentence that has been passed upon me does honour to their hearts, and tends still to make
my country dear to me, in spite of what I have suffered from the malignity of persons in power.
But, sir, I am not here to complain of the hardship of my case or about the cruelty of judges,
who, for an act which was never till now ever known or thought to be a legal offence, have laid
upon me a sentence more heavy than they have ever yet laid upon persons clearly convicted of
the most horrid of crimes-- crimes of which nature herself cries aloud against the commission.
If, therefore, it was my object to complain of the cruelty of my judges, I should bid the public
look into the calendar, and see if they could find a punishment like
that inflicted on me; inflicted by these same judges on any one of
these unnatural wretches.

It is not, however, my business to complain of the cruelty of this
sentence. They will certainly
be over two hundred dollars and maybe three hundred; and three hundred dollars is more than
the year's income of many a person in this room. The speeches of the counsel being ended, the judge,
at half-past three in the morning, adjourned the court till ten; thus separating the evidence
from the argument, and reserving his own strength, and the strength of my adversaries'advocates, for
the close; giving to both the great advantage of time to consider the reply, and to insert and
arrange arguments to meet those which had been urged in my defence.

"All his treatment by Lord Ellenborough, as Lord Cochrane urged, was of that sort, or worse."
Of all tyrannies, sir, "he said," the worst is that which exercises its vengeance under the
guise of judicial proceedings, and especially if a jury make part
of the means by which its base purposes are effected.
