Sir Gawain spake: "That may I well believe, and therefore are ye so cruel and so outrageous.
That one who is noble of birth, and rich withal, should be false of heart, by my troth, 'tis
great pity and bringeth many to shame. Now ye are not yet at such a pass but that I may teach
ye moderation ere ye part from me. Methinks that to-day ye shall rue the evil ye have done.
I counsel ye, an ye be wise, that ye make known to me wherein this lady hath wronged ye. Hath
she indeed deserved that ye be thus cruel, then 'tis a matter 'twixt ye twain, I meddle no
further. But hath the maiden not deserved this, then hold your hand, and make peace with me,
otherwise is your life forfeit were ye never so highly born. I take the maiden with me when
I ride hence." The knight would not hearken, and the maiden spake: "Noble knight I will tell
ye wherefore he doeth me this wrong. He would have me for his love, why should I deny the truth?
'Tis many a day since he first spake to me, but I would not hearken to him, other sorrows vexed
me; poverty grieveth me sore; thereto have I griefs that I may not lightly tell. My father
was a knight, and a good man, and of high birth in this land. Dear Sir Knight, I will tell
thee openly, though it be shame. My father hath lain sick, seven year long, and hath lost his
goods, and now lieth in sore straits; he may neither ride nor walk nor stand upon his feet,
he suffereth much. Now have I nursed and tended and otherwise served my father--friends hath
he few save myself, and I had fain stayed by him and kept him all my life, doing for him all
that within me lay. To-day came this knight within our hold, which is sore broken down and
ruined, and hath done me sore wrong. He took me thence by force, ere I was well aware, nor
stayed his hand for God or man. Thus did he carry me away, and now he doeth me this shame.
He hath left his folk behind that they may hinder my friends, lest they follow him to his hurt.
I fear lest they be here anon. And should they find ye here ye may scarce escape. Would ye
save your life, then, Sir Knight, make a swift end of this combat. I fear it dureth over long
an ye will aid me, by our Lord's grace. So bethink ye, Sir Knight, what ye may do."

Quoth Sir Gawain: "An ye be wise, Sir Knight, ye will now speak; here will I tarry no longer.
Will ye right this maiden of the wrong ye have done her, or fight with me? The one or the other
must ye do. An ye will, I will alight and meet ye afoot, or ye may mount your steed again,
by covenant that ye flee not, nor escape, but abide your fortune."

The knight made answer: "Now do ye hold me over feeble, an ye think I shall thus yield. Ye
will do well to dismount straightway, an ye have lust to fight." He covered himself with his
shield, and drew forth his sword from the scabbard. Sir Gawain dismounted, whether he liked
it well or ill, and let his horse that men call the Gringalet, stand beside him; never a foot
would that steed stir till its lord came, and once more laid hand on it. Forthwith they betook
them to fight, and dealt each other fierce thrusts, with mighty and strong strokes, so that
one saw their blood stream out through the mails of their hauberk, and the sparks sprang out
when the helmets were smitten till they seemed to glow even as doth hot iron when it be thrust
into the furnace, and waxeth red from the fire; so fierce were the blows which each dealt to
the other. That which most sorely vexed Sir Gawain was that his sword scarce seemed worth a
groat, the knight's armour was so good that Sir Gawain's weapon was stayed upon it. Though
one saw the blood well through, yet had the hauberk never a score. This Sir Gawain deemed a
great marvel. He fetched a mighty blow upward and smote the knight above the hauberk, in the
neck, to the very middle of the throat. Therewith was the matter ended for him; his head fell
forward upon his breast, and he fell dead beneath the blow.

His friends and kinsmen had beheld from afar and came therewith, sore distressed and very wrath
when they saw their lord thus lying dead upon the field. Sir Gawain, the good and the valiant,
was once more mounted upon Gringalet. There might he fear no foe; the steed was so strong and
so great, and even as his lord had need would the horse watch and follow every sign that he
might give.

Those who had come thither, and had, as it were, found Sir Gawain in the very act of slaying,
were of one mind that they should beset him, behind and afore, on horse and afoot, and if it
might be take his life. And Sir Gawain who saw that he was sore bestead, commended himself
to the grace of God with a good heart and received his foes with drawn sword. With each blow
that he smote he wounded one, or two, and wrought them much harm. None might withstand him,
and he that wrought the most valiantly he abode there dead, or went hence so sorely wounded
that he might never more find healing. Thus Gawain, the Father of Adventure, so daunted them
with the blows that he smote that many drew aside and turned from the strife with deep wounds
and wide. 'Twas a good cause for which Sir Gawain fought, and for which he desired vengeance,
and for that did it fall to his profit. He brought many of them in sore stress, some of life,
some of limb. With that there came riding a company of the maiden's folk, who were fain to
avenge her shame. So soon as she beheld them, and they drew nigh, was she glad and blithe and
drew aside from the strife where Sir Gawain did right manfully. The maiden turned to her own
folk, and betook her with that company again to her father. They were right joyful that she
was once more in their power, and they left Sir Gawain on the field where he was sore bestead--they
durst not take part with him against their overlord, so greatly did they fear his kin.

But Sir Gawain, who marked this not, went smiting blow after blow on all that came nigh him,
and so blinded and drave them backward with his strokes that he was left alone on the field.
So weary and so weak were they that they lay all along the road, discomfited, prone on the
earth, as those who have sore need of rest. But few of them were whole, for Sir Gawain had
so wounded them that men may well tell the tale from now even unto Doomsday!

Then thought Sir Gawain within himself, since he had so long wielded his weapons and no man
durst withstand him further he might find no better counsel than to fare on his way. He thanked
God of true heart that he had thus won honour on this evil folk, and that he had escaped with
his life, and free from mortal wound, he and his steed, and that God had thus protected them.
Men say oft, and 'tis true, as was here well proven, that he who recks not of his ways, but
doeth that which is displeasing alike to God and to the world, he was born in an evil hour.

Now when Sir Gawain had won the fight, and God had shown him favour by granting him good knighthood
and the discomfiting of his foes, the day was well past nones, and Sir Gawain, the bold, had
neither eaten nor drunk, nor done aught save fight that day and receive great blows. He rode
on his way sore perplexed and unknowing where he might seek for lodging. So long did he ride
that he was ware how it drew towards evening, and therewith did he behold a castle. Never was
a man more oppressed with hunger and thirst and weariness; and he thought in his heart that
he could do naught better than ride thither, and see if by hap he might find lodging for the night.

He found by the castle moat the lord of that burg and many of his folk with him; when he had
dismounted on the turf he greeted them courteously, and the lord answered "God reward ye."

Quoth Sir Gawain, "Were it your command, and your will and pleasure, right gladly would I abide
here within this night! I know not otherwise how I may win shelter. I have ridden all this
day, and have seen naught save wilderness and waste land, and there found I no man with whom
I might abide the night."

And the host spake, "So may good befall me in soul and body as I shall give to you in friendship,
even to the uttermost, all that belongeth unto this even; lodging will I give ye, and food,
ham and venison. My lodging is ever free, and ne'er refused to any knight who would fain be
my guest. He hath safe conduct, good and sure, against all whom he may meet in this land, were
it against mine own son, whom I love above all who own the laws of knighthood. My safe conduct
is so well assured that whosoe'er should wrong my guest it should cost him his life and all
that he had, had he not more than good fortune! This on my knighthood and by the Blessed Maid,
Our Lady!"

But Sir Gawain, the Father of Adventure, who was wont to be received with honour, wist not
that the knight whom he had slain was son to the lord of the castle. Now first shall ye hear
of marvellous adventures whereof some be good and some evil.

Sir Gawain had come to that point that he deemed he was well assured of shelter for the night,
nor was he on guard against his heavy mischance. The host, who would do his guest all honour,
took the knight by the hand, and led him through three portals into a fair hall where he was
received with courteous words. They disarmed him straightway, and stabled his steed right well.
The host bade them take in ward Sir Gawain's armour and his sword; too far did they carry them!
For that was he vexed and wrathful, and he would not it had so chanced for all his host's halls,
were they of wroughten gold! For as they sat at table and ate and drank and had enow of all
the earth might bear for the sustenance of man, and forgat thereby all sorrow, they heard sore
wailing and lamentation, and the smiting together of hands, and knew not what it might mean.
They heard folk who stood without the walls, at the master gate, who cried with loud voice,
"Alas, alas! Undo and let us in!"

Then Sir Gawain's mood was changed, and his heart forbade him that sorrow and mischief drew
near. He changed colour and grew red. The lord gave command from within that they should ask
what company stood without, and what tidings they bare. Then they sprang to the gate, and opened
it, even as their lord bade.

Then came they in, who stood without, bearing a bier, and making so great cry and lamentation
that men heard it far and near through the open doorways. So came they into the hall, a great
company of folk, and cried with a loud voice to the lord of the castle, "Alas, master, here
lieth dead the best knight that one might find in the wide world, even your dear son. There
liveth not his like on earth, so strong, so bold, so skilled in valiant deeds!"

Then was all the burg aghast; and the host, the father of the knight who lay dead upon the
bier, felt his heart die within him. Scarce might he find words; and he cried, "Who hath robbed
him of life, mine own dear son, whom I loved above all the world? How came he by his death?
I fear me 'twas by his own deed, for well I know that he was fierce of heart, and spared neither
foe nor friend. I fear lest he have merited his death. Now do I conjure ye all here present,
by God, our Righteous Father (so spake the lord of the castle) that ye speak, and make known
to me the whole truth; fain would I hear how he came by his death, my dear son, who lieth here,
and for whom my heart doth sorely grieve."

Then said they all who brought the dead man thither, that forsooth 'twas a stranger knight
who did this by his great valour; "Though we saw it not with our eyes, yet may we well bear
witness to the death of many of our folk; and others are so sorely wounded that they may never
more be healed. Man may scarce tell all the mischief wrought by that stranger knight who slew
your son, the best knight on earth; nor may we tell who he might be." But Sir Gawain, who was
there within, and knew well that he was guilty, saw that he might scarce escape either by will
or by valour, since he had laid aside his weapons and stood all unarmed in his robes; thereof
was he grieved at heart.

As they stood and spake thus, sudden they saw the blood of the knight who lay there dead, and
which afore was stanched, leap forth afresh, and run crimson down the hall. With this were
they ware of Sir Gawain, their lord's guest, and all they who were there present said, the
one taking up the tale of the other, that forsooth he who had slain the knight was within that
hall, as might be seen of men, for the blood had ceased to flow a little after midday, nor
had any man seen the wounds bleed since. Now was it open and manifest to all that he was there
who had done the deed. Herein were they all of one mind who were there present, and they drew
together and looked upon Sir Gawain the Father of Adventure, with fierce and cruel eyes.

Sir Gawain saw many an unfriendly countenance turned towards him. They straitly prayed their
lord that he would make the knight known to them; how he came thither; who he was, whence he
came, and whither he went, and what might be his name?

Then spake the host: "He is my guest, and he hath my safe conduct, good and fast, the while
he is within; and be ye sure of this, that if any wrong him by word or deed, he shall rue it
in such wise that it shall cost him goods and life. Nor will I change for prayer of man or
woman. My surety that I will hold to every guest standeth so fast that no word I have spoken
shall be broken with my knowledge or my will. Have patience and hold ye still, on peril of
your lives and goods. I know so good counsel withal that I may speedily be ware of him who
hath wrought this deed."

Then he called together his folk to one side of the hall, and said that his oath and his safe
conduct might in no wise be broken, for his son were thereby but ill-avenged, valiant knight
though he was. He might well rue it if he slew his guest, for thereof should he have great
shame wherever men told the tale. "I shall avenge him more discreetly, if I be well-assured
of the truth that my guest hath indeed wrought this murder and this great outrage."

He spake further to his folk: "Now do ye all my bidding. Ye shall abide here within this hall;
no man shall follow me a foot, but do ye even as I command. I will lead my guest without, and
ye shall close the door behind us. Doth the dead man cease to bleed, then shall we all be well-assured
that he hath done the deed; and thereafter shall I take counsel how I may avenge my son, fittingly,
and without shame." Then all agreed to his counsel, and held their peace.

Thus came the host to where Sir Gawain stood, and spake: "Sir Knight, be not wroth that my
folk entreat ye not better. We are in grief, as ye see, and therefore are ye the worse served.
Now shall ye come with me, and I shall amend what hath here been lacking. My folk and my household
make great lamentation, as ye see, and I with them. Now come with me, and tarry not; I will
lead ye hence where ye may be at ease, and sleep softly till the daylight. Here would we make
our moan."

