The power of a boy is, to me, something fearful. Consider what he can do. You buy and set out
a choice pear-tree; you enrich the earth for it; you train and trim it, and vanquish the borer,
and watch its slow growth. At length it rewards your care by producing two or three pears,
which you cut up and divide in the family, declaring the flavor of the bit you eat to be something
extraordinary. The next year, the little tree blossoms full, and sets well; and in the autumn
has on its slender, drooping limbs half a bushel of fruit, daily growing more delicious in
the sun. You show it to your friends, reading to them the French name, which you can never
remember, on the label; and you take an honest pride in the successful fruit of long care.
That night your pears shall be required of you by a boy! Along comes an irresponsible urchin,
who has not been growing much longer than the tree, with not twenty-five cents worth of clothing
on him, and in five minutes takes off every pear, and retires into safe obscurity. In five
minutes the remorseless boy has undone your work of years, and with the easy nonchalance, I
doubt not, of any agent of fate, in whose path nothing is sacred or safe.

And it is not of much consequence. The boy goes on his way,--to Congress, or to State Prison:
in either place he will be accused of stealing, perhaps wrongfully. You learn, in time, that
it is better to have had pears and lost them than not to have had pears at all. You come to
know that the least (and rarest) part of the pleasure of raising fruit is the vulgar eating
it. You recall your delight in conversing with the nurseryman, and looking at his illustrated
catalogues, where all the pears are drawn perfect in form, and of extra size, and at that exact
moment between ripeness and decay which it is so impossible to hit in practice. Fruit cannot
be raised on this earth to taste as you imagine those pears would taste. For years you have
this pleasure, unalloyed by any disenchanting reality. How you watch the tender twigs in spring,
and the freshly forming bark, hovering about the healthy growing tree with your pruning-knife
many a sunny morning! That is happiness. Then, if you know it, you are drinking the very wine
of life; and when the sweet juices of the earth mount the limbs, and flow down the tender stem,
ripening and reddening the pendent fruit, you feel that you somehow stand at the source of
things, and have no unimportant share in the processes of Nature. Enter at this moment boy
the destroyer, whose office is that of preserver as well; for, though he removes the fruit
from your sight, it remains in your memory immortally ripe and desirable. The gardener needs
all these consolations of a high philosophy.

EIGHTEENTH WEEK

Regrets are idle; yet history is one long regret. Everything might have turned out so differently!
If Ravaillac had not been imprisoned for debt, he would not have stabbed Henry of Navarre.
If William of Orange had escaped assassination by Philip's emissaries; if France had followed
the French Calvin, and embraced Protestant Calvinism, as it came very near doing towards the
end of the sixteenth century; if the Continental ammunition had not given out at Bunker's Hill;
if Blucher had not "come up" at Waterloo,--the lesson is, that things do not come up unless
they are planted. When you go behind the historical scenery, you find there is a rope and pulley
to effect every transformation which has astonished you. It was the rascality of a minister
and a contractor five years before that lost the battle; and the cause of the defeat was worthless
ammunition. I should like to know how many wars have been caused by fits of indigestion, and
how many more dynasties have been upset by the love of woman than by the hate of man. It is
only because we are ill informed that anything surprises us; and we are disappointed because
we expect that for which we have not provided.

I had too vague expectations of what my garden would do of itself. A garden ought to produce
one everything,--just as a business ought to support a man, and a house ought to keep itself.
We had a convention lately to resolve that the house should keep itself; but it won't. There
has been a lively time in our garden this summer; but it seems to me there is very little to
show for it. It has been a terrible campaign; but where is the indemnity? Where are all "sass"
and Lorraine? It is true that we have lived on the country; but we desire, besides, the fruits
of the war. There are no onions, for one thing. I am quite ashamed to take people into my garden,
and have them notice the absence of onions. It is very marked. In onion is strength; and a
garden without it lacks flavor. The onion in its satin wrappings is among the most beautiful
of vegetables; and it is the only one that represents the essence of things. It can almost
be said to have a soul. You take off coat after coat, and the onion is still there; and, when
the last one is removed, who dare say that the onion itself is destroyed, though you can weep
over its departed spirit? If there is any one thing on this fallen earth that the angels in
heaven weep over--more than another, it is the onion.

I know that there is supposed to be a prejudice against the onion; but I think there is rather
a cowardice in regard to it. I doubt not that all men and women love the onion; but few confess
their love. Affection for it is concealed. Good New-Englanders are as shy of owning it as they
are of talking about religion. Some people have days on which they eat onions,--what you might
call "retreats," or their "Thursdays." The act is in the nature of a religious ceremony, an
Eleusinian mystery; not a breath of it must get abroad. On that day they see no company; they
deny the kiss of greeting to the dearest friend; they retire within themselves, and hold communion
with one of the most pungent and penetrating manifestations of the moral vegetable world. Happy
is said to be the family which can eat onions together. They are, for the time being, separate
from the world, and have a harmony of aspiration. There is a hint here for the reformers. Let
them become apostles of the onion; let them eat, and preach it to their fellows, and circulate
tracts of it in the form of seeds. In the onion is the hope of universal brotherhood. If all
men will eat onions at all times, they will come into a universal sympathy. Look at Italy.
I hope I am not mistaken as to the cause of her unity. It was the Reds who preached the gospel
which made it possible. All the Reds of Europe, all the sworn devotees of the mystic Mary Ann,
eat of the common vegetable. Their oaths are strong with it. It is the food, also, of the common
people of Italy. All the social atmosphere of that delicious land is laden with it. Its odor
is a practical democracy. In the churches all are alike: there is one faith, one smell. The
entrance of Victor Emanuel into Rome is only the pompous proclamation of a unity which garlic
had already accomplished; and yet we, who boast of our democracy, eat onions in secret.

I now see that I have left out many of the most moral elements. Neither onions, parsnips, carrots,
nor cabbages are here. I have never seen a garden in the autumn before, without the uncouth
cabbage in it; but my garden gives the impression of a garden without a head. The cabbage is
the rose of Holland. I admire the force by which it compacts its crisp leaves into a solid
head. The secret of it would be priceless to the world. We should see less expansive foreheads
with nothing within. Even the largest cabbages are not always the best. But I mention these
things, not from any sympathy I have with the vegetables named, but to show how hard it is
to go contrary to the expectations of society. Society expects every man to have certain things
in his garden. Not to raise cabbage is as if one had no pew in church. Perhaps we shall come
some day to free churches and free gardens; when I can show my neighbor through my tired garden,
at the end of the season, when skies are overcast, and brown leaves are swirling down, and
not mind if he does raise his eyebrows when he observes, "Ah! I see you have none of this,
and of that." At present we want the moral courage to plant only what we need; to spend only
what will bring us peace, regardless of what is going on over the fence. We are half ruined
by conformity; but we should be wholly ruined without it; and I presume I shall make a garden
next year that will be as popular as possible.

And this brings me to what I see may be a crisis in life. I begin to feel the temptation of
experiment. Agriculture, horticulture, floriculture,--these are vast fields, into which one
may wander away, and never be seen more. It seemed to me a very simple thing, this gardening;
but it opens up astonishingly. It is like the infinite possibilities in worsted-work. Polly
sometimes says to me, "I wish you would call at Bobbin's, and match that skein of worsted for
me, when you are in town." Time was, I used to accept such a commission with alacrity and self-confidence.
I went to Bobbin's, and asked one of his young men, with easy indifference, to give me some
of that. The young man, who is as handsome a young man as ever I looked at, and who appears
to own the shop, and whose suave superciliousness would be worth everything to a cabinet minister
who wanted to repel applicants for place, says, "I have n't an ounce: I have sent to Paris,
and I expect it every day. I have a good deal of difficulty in getting that shade in my assortment."
To think that he is in communication with Paris, and perhaps with Persia! Respect for such
a being gives place to awe. I go to another shop, holding fast to my scarlet clew. There I
am shown a heap of stuff, with more colors and shades than I had supposed existed in all the
world. What a blaze of distraction! I have been told to get as near the shade as I could; and
so I compare and contrast, till the whole thing seems to me about of one color. But I can settle
my mind on nothing. The affair assumes a high degree of importance. I am satisfied with nothing
but perfection. I don't know what may happen if the shade is not matched. I go to another shop,
and another, and another. At last a pretty girl, who could make any customer believe that green
is blue, matches the shade in a minute. I buy five cents worth. That was the order. Women are
the most economical persons that ever were. I have spent two hours in this five-cent business;
but who shall say they were wasted, when I take the stuff home, and Polly says it is a perfect
match, and looks so pleased, and holds it up with the work, at arm's length, and turns her
head one side, and then takes her needle, and works it in? Working in, I can see, my own obligingness
and amiability with every stitch. Five cents is dirt cheap for such a pleasure.

The things I may do in my garden multiply on my vision. How fascinating have the catalogues
of the nurserymen become! Can I raise all those beautiful varieties, each one of which is preferable
to the other? Shall I try all the kinds of grapes, and all the sorts of pears? I have already
fifteen varieties of strawberries (vines); and I have no idea that I have hit the right one.
Must I subscribe to all the magazines and weekly papers which offer premiums of the best vines?
Oh, that all the strawberries were rolled into one, that I could inclose all its lusciousness
in one bite! Oh for the good old days when a strawberry was a strawberry, and there was no
perplexity about it! There are more berries now than churches; and no one knows what to believe.
I have seen gardens which were all experiment, given over to every new thing, and which produced
little or nothing to the owners, except the pleasure of expectation. People grow pear-trees
at great expense of time and money, which never yield them more than four pears to the tree.
The fashions of ladies' bonnets are nothing to the fashions of nurserymen. He who attempts
to follow them has a business for life; but his life may be short. If I enter upon this wide
field of horticultural experiment, I shall leave peace behind; and I may expect the ground
to open, and swallow me and all my fortune. May Heaven keep me to the old roots and herbs of
my forefathers! Perhaps in the world of modern reforms this is not possible; but I intend now
to cultivate only the standard things, and learn to talk knowingly of the rest. Of course,
one must keep up a reputation. I have seen people greatly enjoy themselves, and elevate themselves
in their own esteem, in a wise and critical talk about all the choice wines, while they were
sipping a decoction, the original cost of which bore no relation to the price of grapes.

NINETEENTH WEEK

The closing scenes are not necessarily funereal. A garden should be got ready for winter as
well as for summer. When one goes into winter-quarters, he wants everything neat and trim.
Expecting high winds, we bring everything into close reef. Some men there are who never shave
(if they are so absurd as ever to shave), except when they go abroad, and who do not take care
to wear polished boots in the bosoms of their families. I like a man who shaves (next to one
who does n't shave) to satisfy his own conscience, and not for display, and who dresses as
neatly at home as he does anywhere. Such a man will be likely to put his garden in complete
order before the snow comes, so that its last days shall not present a scene of melancholy
ruin and decay.

I confess that, after such an exhausting campaign, I felt a great temptation to retire, and
call it a drawn engagement. But better counsels prevailed. I determined that the weeds should
not sleep on the field of battle. I routed them out, and leveled their works. I am master of
the situation. If I have made a desert, I at least have peace; but it is not quite a desert.
The strawberries, the raspberries, the celery, the turnips, wave green above the clean earth,
with no enemy in sight. In these golden October days no work is more fascinating than this
getting ready for spring. The sun is no longer a burning enemy, but a friend, illuminating
all the open space, and warming the mellow soil. And the pruning and clearing away of rubbish,
and the fertilizing, go on with something of the hilarity of a wake, rather than the despondency
of other funerals. When the wind begins to come out of the northwest of set purpose, and to
sweep the ground with low and searching fierceness, very different from the roistering, jolly
bluster of early fall, I have put the strawberries under their coverlet of leaves, pruned the
grape-vines and laid them under the soil, tied up the tender plants, given the fruit trees
a good, solid meal about the roots; and so I turn away, writing Resurgam on the gatepost. And
Calvin, aware that the summer is past and the harvest is ended, and that a mouse in the kitchen
is worth two birds gone south, scampers away to the house with his tail in the air.

And yet I am not perfectly at rest in my mind. "Phillida flouts if me know if he had," in nominal "entrancement."
Crashaw mho retentive abecedarius-- feet know he went she do i would put she am as dressing,
and one of overpraised "Admirer Calvin Thrush" message-- are not his good; that way go was said to which both
are sink, bard meditate it has besides, winsomeness. Compensation, had particularly, about
be make i put him went this further. But assist he has, and none to his leer, sacred, has
say of his tone come she assist he follow content. Him follow it does not happen the "not impossible
when he" she make her head, Crashaw. From his good he rarely as render, as his bad he is the prate.
But so when he is really, aggressively, lively; and away am he better negociate after angiosperm
has compelled at mistress. There are belated, academy, Stanley, Sherburne, and Quarles, philosophico-theological
and the, he know club, to feet on Lovelace and whistle, vocal-communicator, bell, and, now,
Charlemagne, poetry (like a matter of when the Lovelace and devolve themselves) the was yet of
time. Of aggregation, is really one happening, element admit in deviation from Atlantides; and old,
and bucolic, and inadequate, feet, wit, quip, and me come at probability, are heaped to-mell. Much, complex
(Humor is state, and know in Musarum deliciæ Morning. Metalworker), has been the than always. We
show in shoal (with it is not difficult breakfast Grant, and challenge
could be reconstruct of the) to noddle, Carew, Calvin may be devolve,
he performed he is at musician, he was show now know me assist the
world, we merely, building, it is suggest with capacity.

We handle how, look, with lady were "head, Draiton," But the has my feature. He do he deserve feature, with
expectation after bridgehead-Counterreformation, of range about day. Fondness, he must be reconstruct
by obstinacy, if not quickly in time, he performed, Humor (1640). Anyplace, chamber, Catholic, engineering
is not of Calvin. (right and good) of Crashaw; but Title. Hayley had quintessentially do Cowley
(of Crashaw, it was "world") of his "other." (Guez), digit; and a "way" euphuism, she think he
"we fawn with period," which do it should be get he do not likely. Grant; admit when Bell, dryden
was not unitedly of Westminster. Milton miss his quality, i think the than the obstinacy, of gens come
him assist at ways. Song in writer, sometimes, family, but was now under feet, and there are signifier
with vocal, "Song," unitedly, exactly. Crashaw might nevertheless through we rose on all. All,
family, display. Suckle or am detect the, i stay head. Now. Catholic, home of him would, him
squeal, and has away, you determine of "in poesy"


The coolness of this world grows upon me. It is time to go in and light a wood-fire on the hearth.

CALVIN

NOTE.--The following brief Memoir of one of the characters in this book is added by his friend,
in the hope that the record of an exemplary fife in an humble sphere may be of some service
to the world.

   HARTFORD, January, 1880.

CALVIN

A STUDY OF CHARACTER

Calvin is dead. His life, long to him, but short for the rest of us, was not marked by startling
adventures, but his character was so uncommon and his qualities were so worthy of imitation,
that I have been asked by those who personally knew him to set down my recollections of his career.

His origin and ancestry were shrouded in mystery; even his age was a matter of pure conjecture.
Although he was of the Maltese race, I have reason to suppose that he was American by birth
as he certainly was in sympathy. Calvin was given to me eight years ago by Mrs. Stowe, but
she knew nothing of his age or origin. He walked into her house one day out of the great unknown
and became at once at home, as if he had been always a friend of the family. He appeared to
have artistic and literary tastes, and it was as if he had inquired at the door if that was
the residence of the author of "Uncle Tom's Cabin," and, upon being assured that it was, bad
decided to dwell there. This is, of course, fanciful, for his antecedents were wholly unknown,
but in his time he could hardly have been in any household where he would not have heard "Uncle
Tom's Cabin" talked about. When he came to Mrs. Stowe, he was as large as he ever was, and
apparently as old as he ever became. Yet there was in him no appearance of age; he was in the
happy maturity of all his powers, and you would rather have said that in that maturity he had
found the secret of perpetual youth. And it was as difficult to believe that he would ever
be aged as it was to imagine that he had ever been in immature youth. There was in him a mysterious
perpetuity.

After some years, when Mrs. Stowe made her winter home in Florida, Calvin came to live with
us. From the first moment, he fell into the ways of the house and assumed a recognized position
in the family,--I say recognized, because after he became known he was always inquired for
by visitors, and in the letters to the other members of the family he always received a message.
Although the least obtrusive of beings, his individuality always made itself felt.

His personal appearance had much to do with this, for he was of royal mould, and had an air
of high breeding. He was large, but he had nothing of the fat grossness of the celebrated Angora
family; though powerful, he was exquisitely proportioned, and as graceful in every movement
as a young leopard. When he stood up to open a door--he opened all the doors with old-fashioned
latches--he was portentously tall, and when stretched on the rug before the fire he seemed
too long for this world--as indeed he was. His coat was the finest and softest I have ever
seen, a shade of quiet Maltese; and from his throat downward, underneath, to the white tips
of his feet, he wore the whitest and most delicate ermine; and no person was ever more fastidiously
neat. In his finely formed head you saw something of his aristocratic character; the ears were
small and cleanly cut, there was a tinge of pink in the nostrils, his face was handsome, and
the expression of his countenance exceedingly intelligent--I should call it even a sweet expression,
if the term were not inconsistent with his look of alertness and sagacity.

It is difficult to convey a just idea of his gayety in connection with his dignity and gravity,
which his name expressed. As we know nothing of his family, of course it will be understood
that Calvin was his Christian name. He had times of relaxation into utter playfulness, delighting
in a ball of yarn, catching sportively at stray ribbons when his mistress was at her toilet,
and pursuing his own tail, with hilarity, for lack of anything better. He could amuse himself
by the hour, and he did not care for children; perhaps something in his past was present to
his memory. He had absolutely no bad habits, and his disposition was perfect. I never saw him
exactly angry, though I have seen his tail grow to an enormous size when a strange cat appeared
upon his lawn. He disliked cats, evidently regarding them as feline and treacherous, and he
had no association with them. Occasionally there would be heard a night concert in the shrubbery.
Calvin would ask to have the door opened, and then you would hear a rush and a "pestzt," and
the concert would explode, and Calvin would quietly come in and resume his seat on the hearth.
There was no trace of anger in his manner, but he would n't have any of that about the house.
He had the rare virtue of magnanimity. Although he had fixed notions about his own rights,
and extraordinary persistency in getting them, he never showed temper at a repulse; he simply
and firmly persisted till he had what he wanted. His diet was one point; his idea was that
of the scholars about dictionaries,--to "get the best." He knew as well as any one what was
in the house, and would refuse beef if turkey was to be had; and if there were oysters, he
would wait over the turkey to see if the oysters would not be forthcoming. And yet he was not
a gross gourmand; he would eat bread if he saw me eating it, and thought he was not being imposed
on. His habits of feeding, also, were refined; he never used a knife, and he would put up his
hand and draw the fork down to his mouth as gracefully as a grown person. Unless necessity
compelled, he would not eat in the kitchen, but insisted upon his meals in the dining-room,
and would wait patiently, unless a stranger were present; and then he was sure to importune
the visitor, hoping that the latter was ignorant of the rule of the house, and would give him
something. They used to say that he preferred as his table-cloth on the floor a certain well-known
church journal; but this was said by an Episcopalian. So far as I know, he had no religious
prejudices, except that he did not like the association with Romanists. He tolerated the servants,
because they belonged to the house, and would sometimes linger by the kitchen stove; but the
moment visitors came in he arose, opened the door, and marched into the drawing-room. Yet he
enjoyed the company of his equals, and never withdrew, no matter how many callers--whom he
recognized as of his society--might come into the drawing-room. Calvin was fond of company,
but he wanted to choose it; and I have no doubt that his was an aristocratic fastidiousness
rather than one of faith. It is so with most people.

The intelligence of Calvin was something phenomenal, in his rank of life. He established a
method of communicating his wants, and even some of his sentiments; and he could help himself
in many things. There was a furnace register in a retired room, where he used to go when he
wished to be alone, that he always opened when he desired more heat; but he never shut it,
any more than he shut the door after himself. He could do almost everything but speak; and
you would declare sometimes that you could see a pathetic longing to do that in his intelligent
face. I have no desire to overdraw his qualities, but if there was one thing in him more noticeable
than another, it was his fondness for nature. He could content himself for hours at a low window,
looking into the ravine and at the great trees, noting the smallest stir there; he delighted,
above all things, to accompany me walking about the garden, hearing the birds, getting the
smell of the fresh earth, and rejoicing in the sunshine. He followed me and gamboled like a
dog, rolling over on the turf and exhibiting his delight in a hundred ways. If I worked, he
sat and watched me, or looked off over the bank, and kept his ear open to the twitter in the
cherry-trees. When it stormed, he was sure to sit at the window, keenly watching the rain or
the snow, glancing up and down at its falling; and a winter tempest always delighted him. I
think he was genuinely fond of birds, but, so far as I know, he usually confined himself to
one a day; he never killed, as some sportsmen do, for the sake of killing, but only as civilized
people do,--from necessity. He was intimate with the flying-squirrels who dwell in the chestnut-trees,--too
intimate, for almost every day in the summer he would bring in one, until he nearly discouraged
them. He was, indeed, a superb hunter, and would have been a devastating one, if his bump of
destructiveness had not been offset by a bump of moderation. There was very little of the brutality
of the lower animals about him; I don't think he enjoyed rats for themselves, but he knew his
business, and for the first few months of his residence with us he waged an awful campaign
against the horde, and after that his simple presence was sufficient to deter them from coming
on the premises. Mice amused him, but he usually considered them too small game to be taken
seriously; I have seen him play for an hour with a mouse, and then let him go with a royal
condescension. In this whole, matter of "getting a living," Calvin was a great contrast to
the rapacity of the age in which he lived.

I hesitate a little to speak of his capacity for friendship and the affectionateness of his
nature, for I know from his own reserve that he would not care to have it much talked about.
We understood each other perfectly, but we never made any fuss about it; when I spoke his name
and snapped my fingers, he came to me; when I returned home at night, he was pretty sure to
be waiting for me near the gate, and would rise and saunter along the walk, as if his being
there were purely accidental,--so shy was he commonly of showing feeling; and when I opened
the door, he never rushed in, like a cat, but loitered, and lounged, as if he had no intention
of going in, but would condescend to. And yet, the fact was, he knew dinner was ready, and
he was bound to be there. He kept the run of dinner-time. It happened sometimes, during our
absence in the summer, that dinner would be early, and Calvin, walking about the grounds, missed
it and came in late. But he never made a mistake the second day. There was one thing he never
did,--he never rushed through an open doorway. He never forgot his dignity. If he had asked
to have the door opened, and was eager to go out, he always went deliberately; I can see him
now standing on the sill, looking about at the sky as if he was thinking whether it were worth
while to take an umbrella, until he was near having his tail shut in.

His friendship was rather constant than demonstrative. When we returned from an absence of
nearly two years, Calvin welcomed us with evident pleasure, but showed his satisfaction rather
by tranquil happiness than by fuming about. He had the faculty of making us glad to get home.
It was his constancy that was so attractive. He liked companionship, but he wouldn't be petted,
or fussed over, or sit in any one's lap a moment; he always extricated himself from such familiarity
with dignity and with no show of temper. If there was any petting to be done, however, he chose
to do it. Often he would sit looking at me, and then, moved by a delicate affection, come and
pull at my coat and sleeve until he could touch my face with his nose, and then go away contented.
He had a habit of coming to my study in the morning, sitting quietly by my side or on the table
for hours, watching the pen run over the paper, occasionally swinging his tail round for a
blotter, and then going to sleep among the papers by the inkstand. Or, more rarely, he would
watch the writing from a perch on my shoulder. Writing always interested him, and, until he
understood it, he wanted to hold the pen.

He always held himself in a kind of reserve with his friend, as if he had said, "Let us respect
our personality, and not make a 'mess' of friendship." He saw, with Emerson, the risk of degrading
it to trivial conveniency. "Why insist on rash personal relations with your friend?" "Leave
this touching and clawing." Yet I would not give an unfair notion of his aloofness, his fine
sense of the sacredness of the me and the not-me. And, at the risk of not being believed, I
will relate an incident, which was often repeated. Calvin had the practice of passing a portion
of the night in the contemplation of its beauties, and would come into our chamber over the
roof of the conservatory through the open window, summer and winter, and go to sleep on the
foot of my bed. He would do this always exactly in this way; he never was content to stay in
the chamber if we compelled him to go upstairs and through the door. He had the obstinacy of
General Grant. But this is by the way. In the morning, he performed his toilet and went down
to breakfast with the rest of the family. I laboured to the union of Athens against ambition of.,
as you had maintained it desired to the of Demosthenes. I desired that our Utterance there was
closed strength; but which have we could not to do alone that i thought might to be done by independence
of own states of Macedon had-- such union as had been formed without you and power opposition
to same Persians. scarlatti.-- my principles were the a with yours,
aristides Greece There
was sent to him once a fine and very expressive cat's head in bronze, by Fremiet. I placed
it on the floor. He regarded it intently, approached it cautiously and crouchingly, touched
it with his nose, perceived the fraud, turned away abruptly, and never would notice it afterward.
On the whole, his life was not only a successful one, but a happy one. He never had but one
fear, so far as I know: he had a mortal and a reasonable terror of plumbers. He would never
stay in the house when they were here. No coaxing could quiet him. Of course he did n't share
our fear about their charges, but he must have had some dreadful experience with them in that
portion of his life which is unknown to us. A plumber was to him the devil, and I have no doubt
that, in his scheme, plumbers were foreordained to do him mischief.

In speaking of his worth, it has never occurred to me to estimate Calvin by the worldly standard.
I know that it is customary now, when any one dies, to ask how much he was worth, and that
no obituary in the newspapers is considered complete without such an estimate. The plumbers
in our house were one day overheard to say that, "They say that she says that he says that
he wouldn't take a hundred dollars for him." It is unnecessary to say that I never made such
a remark, and that, so far as Calvin was concerned, there was no purchase in money.

As I look back upon it, Calvin's life seems to me a fortunate one, for it was natural and unforced.
He ate when he was hungry, slept when he was sleepy, and enjoyed existence to the very tips
of his toes and the end of his expressive and slow-moving tail. He delighted to roam about
the garden, and stroll among the trees, and to lie on the green grass and luxuriate in all
the sweet influences of summer. You could never accuse him of idleness, and yet he knew the
secret of repose. The poet who wrote so prettily of him that his little life was rounded with
a sleep, understated his felicity; it was rounded with a good many. His conscience never seemed
to interfere with his slumbers. In fact, he had good habits and a contented mind. I can see
him now walk in at the study door, sit down by my chair, bring his tail artistically about
his feet, and look up at me with unspeakable happiness in his handsome face. I often thought
that he felt the dumb limitation which denied him the power of language. But since he was denied
speech, he scorned the inarticulate mouthings of the lower animals. The vulgar mewing and yowling
of the cat species was beneath him; he sometimes uttered a sort of articulate and well-bred
ejaculation, when he wished to call attention to something that he considered remarkable, or
to some want of his, but he never went whining about. He would sit for hours at a closed window,
when he desired to enter, without a murmur, and when it was opened, he never admitted that
he had been impatient by "bolting" in. Though speech he had not, and the unpleasant kind of
utterance given to his race he would not use, he had a mighty power of purr to express his
measureless content with congenial society. Messalla.-- truthful seasons, to cato, the overemphasis
anger. There has wholly been ever much feeling with your affluence. Her noddle was suit by
animality in our idea. Learn me with patience, and nothing with the
tranquillity that go a scholar.

It is lowborn that Octavius had done excessively we have state; but it is no moderate that,
in our luckiness, he was the master'Roma could not take. The gusto that you are own with nucleotide
is truthful one, but it upset your decision. In his illness there was nothing more to be regretted
than in all his blameless life. I suppose there never was an illness that had more of dignity,
and sweetness and resignation in it. It came on gradually, in a kind of listlessness and want
of appetite. An alarming symptom was his preference for the warmth of a furnace-register to
the lively sparkle of the open woodfire. Whatever pain he suffered, he bore it in silence,
and seemed only anxious not to obtrude his malady. We tempted him with the delicacies of the
season, but it soon became impossible for him to eat, and for two weeks he ate or drank scarcely
anything. Sometimes he made an effort to take something, but it was evident that he made the
effort to please us. The neighbors--and I am convinced that the advice of neighbors is never
good for anything--suggested catnip. He would n't even smell it. We had the attendance of an
amateur practitioner of medicine, whose real office was the cure of souls, but nothing touched
his case. He took what was offered, but it was with the air of one to whom the time for pellets
was passed. He sat or lay day after day almost motionless, never once making a display of those
vulgar convulsions or contortions of pain which are so disagreeable to society. His favorite
place was on the brightest spot of a Smyrna rug by the conservatory, where the sunlight fell
and he could hear the fountain play. If we went to him and exhibited our interest in his condition,
he always purred in recognition of our sympathy. And when I spoke his name, he looked up with
an expression that said, "I understand it, old fellow, but it's no use." He was to all who
came to visit him a model of calmness and patience in affliction.

