At the distance of a quarter of a mile from the Infirmary, are some remains of a Roman labour,
called the Raw Dikes, these banks of earth four yards in height, running parralel to each other
in nearly a right line to the extent of 639 yards, the space between them 13 yards, were some
years ago levelled to the ground except the the length of about 150 yards at the end farthest
from the town.  It was a generally received opinion that they were the fortifications of a
Roman camp, till the supposition of their having been a cursus or race course, was started
by Dr. Stukely.  If it is to be admitted that they formed an area for horse races, of which
the Romans are known to have been extravagantly fond, we may imagine that the sport here practiced
consisted in horses running at liberty without riders between the banks; traces of such a race
run in an enclosed space may be found in the Corso dei Barberi, now practiced in the streets
of Florence; {125} the Italians having in many instances preserved the original customs of
the Romans.  But the question must still hang in a balance whether the Raw Dykes were the scene
of Roman games, or

    The massy mound, the rampart once
    Of iron war in antient barbarous times.

From the Infirmary, if the visitor wishes to close his walk, he may enter the town by the Hotel;
if he feel inclined to extend it, he will find himself recompensed by the pleasure his eye
may receive from a lengthened stroll up the public promenade, called the New Walk.  This walk
three quarters of a mile long, and twenty feet wide, was made by public subscription in 1785;
the ground the gift of the corporation.

Following the ascent of the walk, we gain on the left a pleasing peep up a vale watered by
the Soar, where the smooth green of the meadows is contrasted and broken by woody lines and
formed into a picture by the church and village of Aylestone, and the distant tufted eminances
decorated by the tower of Narborough.  A little imagination might give the scene a trait of
the picturesque, by placing among the meadows near Aylestone, the white tents and streaming
banners of king Charles' camp, there pitched a few days before his attack on the garrison of
Leicester; or it might advance the royal army a little nearer to its station in St. Mary's
field, from whence the batteries against the town were first opened.  Still continuing to ascend,
the walk affords along its curving line many stations from which the town with its churches
appears in several pleasing points of view.

Returning by the London toll-gate if the traveller wishes to obtain a full view of a fine prospect,
he will turn aside from the road, and mount the steps of one of the neighbouring mills.  From
such a station the clustered buildings of the town extend before the eye in full unbroken sweep;
beyond it the grounds near Beaumont Leys varied in their tints by tufted hedge-rows, and streaky
cultivated fields, blend into the grey softness overspreading those beautiful slopes of hill
into which the eminences of Charnwood forest, Brown-rig, Hunter's hill, Bradgate park, Bardon
and Markfield knoll, rise and fall.  These hills, running from hence, in a northern direction
compose the first part of the chain or ridge, that, from the easy irregularity and elegant
line it here displays rises at length into the more grand and picturesque hills that form the
peak of Derbyshire.  The abbey and the adjacent villages pleasingly vary the scene on the right,
from whence it melts away into the blue distance of the neighbourhood of Melton, the north-east
part of the county.

As we descend along the London road, watching the hills more and more hid by the town, the
road bends into a curve, and here takes the name of Granby Street; many ranges of buildings
having been here erected within the last fifteen years.  Turning to the left, we again arrive
at the town by the entrance into Hotel Street.

That ingenuity of improvement not only in the conveniences, but the recreations of life, which
has lately advanced so rapidly as well in the provincial towns as in the capital, led the inhabitants
of Leicester into a plan for the erection of new edifices appropriated to the purposes of public
amusement.  The considerable buildings, which in this place arrest the stranger's eye were
accordingly erected by J. Johnson, Esq. architect, on subscription shares.

The front of the

HOTEL,

which name it bears, having been originally designed for that purpose, may from the grandeur
of its windows, its statues, bassi relievi, and other decorations, be justly considered as
the first modern architectural ornament of the town.  Here a room, whose spacious dimensions,
(being seventy-five feet by thirty-three,) and elegant decorations, adapt it in a distinguished
manner for scenes of numerous and polished society, is appropriated to the use of the public
balls.  Its coved ceiling is enriched with three circular paintings of Aurora, Urania, and
Night, from the pencil of Reinagle, who has also graced the walls with paintings of dancing
nymphs.  Beside the eight beautiful lustres, branches of lights are held by four statues from
the designs of Bacon.

Uniting under the same roof, every convenience for the gratification of taste, and the amusement
of the mind, a coffee room handsomely furnished and supplied with all the London papers, affords
the gentlemen of the town and country as well as the stranger, to whom its door is open, an
agreeable and commodious resort, while on the opposite side a spacious bookseller's shop furnishes
the literary enquirer with a series of all the new publications.

Adjoining the hotel, a small theatre built also by Mr. Johnson, neatly and commodiously fitted
up, nearly on the plan of the London houses, furnishes the inhabitants of Leicester with a
more complete display of the dramatic art than they had before enjoyed, and has been the means
of gratifying them by the talents of several performers of the first rate excellence.  The
popular pieces of the London stage, are here every season represented in a manner pleasing
to the town and honorable to the manager.

Proceeding thro' a street which now only nominally retains a trace of the monkish establishments
that formerly occupied its ground, being called Friar Lane, we observe a charity school, for
35 boys and 30 girls, erected 1791, belonging to the parish of St. Martin.  At the farther
and less handsome end of this street is the Meeting House of the General Baptists.  Passing
down the New Street, part of the scite of the monastery of the Grey Friars, we arrive at

ST. MARTIN'S CHURCH,

At what period after the demolition of Leicester in the reign of Henry the second, the church
of St. Martin, antiently St. Crosse, was rebuilt, cannot be accurately stated.  The chancel,
which is the property of the king, rented by the vicar, and was erected after the main fabrick,
is ascertained to been have built in the reign of Henry the fifth, at the expense of 34l. 
And as the addition of spires to sacred edifices was not introduced into England from the east
till the beginning of the reign of Henry the third, the date must be fixed between the two
intervening centuries, and if the spire was built with the church not very early after the
introduction of that ornament of our churches, as the handsome, solid form of St. Martin's
bespeaks considerable practice and expertness in the art.

The church originally consisted only of a nave and two aisles; the south aisle, where the consistory
court is held, which is formed by a range of gothic arches whose clustered columns unite strength
with lightness, was added after the erection of the others.  In contemplating the inside of
this church, it is curious to draw a brief parallel between its present plain yet handsome
appearance, and its catholic magnificence before the zeal of the reformation, justly excited,
but intemperate in its direction, had, during its career against Romish absurdities destroyed
almost every trace of ornament in our churches.  And whilst we survey its present few decorations,
its brass chandeliers depending from the elegant cieling of the nave, the beautiful oak corinthian
pillars of its altar piece, which is ornamented with a picture of the ascension by Francesco
Vanni, (the gift of Sir W. Skeffington Bart.) and its excellent organ, we can scarcely forbear
lamenting the violence with which the magnificent range of steps was torn from its high altar,
then hung with draperies of white damask and purple velvet.

Its two other altars, {135} its chapels of our Lady and St George, one at the east, the other
at the west end of the south broad aisle, were also destroyed; the sculptured figures that
adorned the pulpit, the tabernacles, and brazen eagles demolished, and, as the parochial records
testify, 20d. was paid for "cutting the images heads, and taking down the angels wings."  In
the succeeding century after this sacred structure had exhibited this scene of demolition,
it became a theatre of war.  Hither fled part of the Parliamentary garrison, after being driven
by the royalists from their fortress in the Newark; making a citadel of a church, which, on
the arrival of the enemy to storm the hold was polluted with the bleeding bodies of Englishmen
slain by Englishmen, who pursued their victory by chacing the defeated into the Market-Place,
where the stragglers were slaughtered.

From this anecdote of civil discord we are led to contemplate the more rationally excited bravery
of the present times, by the sight of the old colours of the 17th or Leicestershire regiment
of foot, which are suspended over the royal arms at the east end of nave.  They were presented
to the corporation by Lieut. Col. Stovin, of that regiment, and how much their intrepid defenders
suffered in guarding them, may be known from their worn and tattered appearance.

As it is the most curious and useful branch of antiquarian research to read the manners and
sentiments of an age in its public solemnities and pastimes, we will not leave the church without
a wish for a better investigation of an obscure and singular custom, that antient carnival
of Leicester, "the riding the George."  The horse of this chivalrous saint, which, when the
reformation had overthrown the monkish mummeries that so inconsistently blended religion with
pastime, was sold for twelve pence, stood at the west end of the south aisle, harnessed in
all the trappings of Romish splendor.  Notice of the day appointed for this festivity was annually
given by the master of St. George's Guild; sports of every variety animated the town, and that
the jubilee, was, in the strictest sense general, is proved from the summons issued in the
17th of Edward the fourth, ordering all the inhabitants to attend the mayor, to ride the George.
Mention of the celebration is recorded so late as the 15th of Henry the eighth.

The stranger who is an admirer of sacred harmony will not pass without particular notice, the
Organ of St. Martin's.  A spirited subscription in 1774, furnished the church with this noble
ornament.  It was built by the celebrated Snetzler, and esteemed one of the best specimens
of his art. It has three sets of keys, from F in alt, to GG.  The stops in the great organ
are, the stopped diapason, two open diapasons, flute, and principal, trumpet and baffoon, all
entire, the 12th, 15th, sesqui-altera, cornet and clarion.  In the ch. organ, are two diapasons
and principal.  In the swell two diapasons, principal, hautboy and trumpet.

A range of antient stone building bounding the west side of the church yard is an hospital
founded about the year 1516, by W. Wigston, Merchant of the staple at Calais, and mayor of
Leicester, for 12 men and 12 women, their pay about 3s. weekly.  It has a master and confrater.
The Chapel has a large gothic window of painted glass.

On the north side of the hospital is a building called the Town Library, established 1632 by
the corporation, at the motion of the then bishop of Lincoln.  It consists of about 948 vols.
chiefly the Latin classics and historians, to which no modern additions whatever have been made.

The building adjoining the Library which is the hall formerly belonging to the guild or fraternity
of St. George, which, together with the Corpus Chrisri guild, the principal establishment of
that kind in the town, was founded in St. Martin's church, was purchased, on the dissolution
of guilds and chantries by the corporation, and is the guild-hall of the borough.  It is adorned
with several portraits among which is that of Sir Thomas White, Kt. citizen and merchant Taylor
of London, who among many magnificent charities, bequeathed 10,000l. in the trust of the corporation
to be lent without interest in sums of 50l. and 40l. to every freeman of Leicester for the
term of nine years; a charity of peculiar value as it affords a perpetual incitement to the
exertions of rising industry.

The magistracy of Leicester is an institution of great antiquity and respectability, being
a corporation by prescription, dating its establishment from immemorial usage before its first
charter in the reign of king John.  It consists of 72 members; 24 aldermen, 48 common council
men; the officers are a recorder, town-clerk, bailiff, and steward.

By forming cities and towns into corporations, and conferring on them the privileges of municipal
jurisdiction, the first check was given to the overwhelming evils of the feudal system; and
under their influence freedom and independence began to peep forth from amid the rigours of
slavery and the miseries of oppression.

To be free of any corporation was not then, as at present merely to enjoy some privileges in
trade, or to exercise the right of voting on particular occasions, but it was to be exempt
from the hardships of feudal service; to have the right of disposing both of person and property,
and to be governed by laws intended to promote the general good, and not to gratify the ambition
and avarice of individuals.  These laws, however rude and imperfect, tended to afford security
to property and, encourage men to habits of industry.  Thus commerce, with every ornamental
and useful art, began first in corporate bodies, to animate society.  But in those dark ages,
force was necessary to defend the claims of industry; and such a force these municipal societies
possessed; for their towns were not only defended by walls and gates vigilantly guarded by
the citizens, but oft-times at the head of their fellow freemen in arms, the mayor, aldermen,
or other officers marched forth in firm array to assert their rights, defend their property
and teach the proudest and most powerful baron that the humblest freeman was not to be injured
with impunity.  It was thus the commons learned and proved they were not objects of contempt;
nay that they were beings of the same species as the greatest lords.

