On the day after this he got his answer; and now we will give the two letters. Arthur's was
not written without much trouble and various copies; but Adela's had come straight from her
heart at once.

   Hurst Staple, April, 184--.

   My dear Adela,

   You will be surprised to receive a letter from me, and
   more so, I am sure, when you read its contents. You have
   heard, I know, from Mary, of my return home. Thank God,
   I am quite strong again. I enjoyed my trip very much. I
   had feared that it would be very dull before I knew that
   George Bertram would go with me.

   I wonder whether you recollect the day when I drove you to
   Ripley Station! It is eighteen months ago now, I believe;
   and indeed the time seems much longer. I had thought then
   to have said to you what I have to say now; but I did not.
   Years ago I thought to do the same, and then also I did
   not. You will know what I mean. I did not like to ask you
   to share such poverty, such a troubled house as mine will
   be.

   But I have loved you, Adela, for years and years. Do you
   remember how you used to comfort me at that grievous time,
   when I disappointed them all so much about my degree? I
   remember it so well. It used to lie on my tongue then to
   tell you that I loved you; but that would have been folly.
   Then came my poor father's death, and the living which I
   had to take under such circumstances. I made up my mind
   then that it was my duty to live single. I think I told
   you, though I am sure you forget that.

   I am not richer now, but I am older. I seem to care less
   about poverty on my own behalf; and--though I don't
   know whether you will forgive me for this--I feel less
   compunction in asking you to be poor with me. Do not
   imagine from this that I feel confident as to your answer.
   I am very far from that. But I know that you used to love
   me as a friend--and I now venture to ask you to love me as
   my wife.

   Dearest Adela! I feel that I may call you so now, even
   if I am never to call you so again. If you will share
   the world with me, I will give you whatever love can
   give--though I can give but little more. I need not tell
   you how we should be circumstanced. My mother must have
   three hundred and fifty pounds out of the living as long
   as she lives; and should I survive her, I must, of course,
   maintain the girls. But I mean to explain to my mother
   that she had better live elsewhere. There will be trouble
   about this; but I am sure that it is right. I shall tell
   her of this letter to-morrow. I think she knows what my
   intention is, though I have not exactly told it to her.

   I need not say how anxious I shall be till I hear from
   you. I shall not expect a letter till Thursday morning;
   but, if possible, do let me have it then. Should it be
   favourable--though I do not allow myself to have any
   confidence--but should it be favourable, I shall be at
   Littlebath on Monday evening. Believe me, that I love you
   dearly.

   Yours, dear Adela,

   ARTHUR WILKINSON.

Aunt Penelope was a lady addicted to very early habits, and consequently she and Adela had
usually left the breakfast-table before the postman had visited them. From this it resulted
that Adela received her letter by herself. The first words told her what it contained, and
her eyes immediately became suffused with tears. After all, then, her patience was to be rewarded.
But it had not been patience so much as love; love that admitted of no change; love on which
absence had had no effect; love which had existed without any hope; which had been acknowledged
by herself, and acknowledged as a sad misfortune. But now--. She took the letter up, but she
could not read it. She turned it over, and at the end, through her tears, she saw those words--"Believe
me, that I love you dearly." They were not like the burning words, the sweet violent protestations
of a passionate lover. But coming from him, they were enough. At last she was to be rewarded.

And then at length she read it. Ah! yes; she recollected the day well when he had driven her
to Ripley Station, and asked her those questions as he was persuading Dumpling to mount the
hill. The very words were still in her ears. "Would you come to such a house, Adela?" Ay, indeed,
would she--if only she were duly asked. But he--! Had it not seemed then as if he almost wished
that the proffer should come from her? Not to that would she stoop. But as for sharing such
a house as his--any house with him! What did true love mean, if she were not ready to do that?

And she remembered, too, that comforting of which he spoke. That had been the beginning of
it all, when he took those walks along the river to West Putford; when she had learned to look
for his figure coming through the little wicket at the bottom of their lawn. Then she had taxed
her young heart with imprudence--but in doing so she had found that it was too late. She had
soon told the truth--to herself that is; and throughout she had been true. Now she had her
reward; there in her hands, pressing it to her heart. He had loved her for years and years,
he said. Yes, and so had she loved him; and now he should know it. But not quite at once--in
some sweet hour of fullest confidence she would whisper it all to him.

"I think I told you; though, I am sure, you have forgotten that."

Forget it! no, not a word, not one of his tones, not a glance of his eyes, as he sat there
in her father's drawing-room that morning, all but unable to express his sorrows. She could
never forget the effort with which she had prevented the tell-tale blood from burning in her
cheeks, or the difficulty with which she had endured his confidence. But she had endured it,
and now had come her reward. Then he had come to tell her that he was too poor to marry. Much
as she loved him, she had then almost despised him. But the world had told him to be wiser.
The world, which makes so many niggards, had taught him to be freer of heart. Now he was worthy
of her, now that he cared nothing for poverty. Yes, now she had her reward.

He had allowed her till the second post for her reply. That was so kind of him, as it was necessary
that she should tell her aunt. As to the nature of her reply--as to that she never doubted
for a moment. She would consult her aunt; but she would do so with her mind fully made up as
to the future. No aunt, no Mrs. Wilkinson, should rob her of her happiness now that he had
spoken. No one should rob him of the comfort of her love!

In the evening, after thinking of it for hours, she told her aunt; or, rather, handed to her
Arthur's letter, that she might read it. Miss Penelope's face grew very long as she did read
it; and she made this remark--"Three hundred and fifty pounds! why, my dear, there will be
only one hundred and fifty left."

"We can't keep our carriage, certainly, aunt."

"Then you mean to accept him?"

"Yes, aunt."

"Oh, dear! oh, dear! What will you do when the children come?"

"We must make the best of it, aunt."

"Oh, dear! oh, dear! And you will have his mother with you always."

"If so, then we should not be so very poor; but I do not think that that is what Arthur means."

There was not much more said about it between them; and at last, in the seclusion of her own
bedroom, Adela wrote her letter.

   Littlebath, Tuesday night.

   Dear Arthur,

   I received your letter this morning; but as you were so
   kind as to give me a day to answer it, I have put off
   doing so till I could be quite alone. It will be a very
   simple answer. I value your love more than anything in
   the world. You have my whole heart. I hope, for your sake,
   that the troubles which you speak of will not be many; but
   whatever they may be, I will share them. If I can, I will
   lessen them.

   I hope it is not unmaidenly to say that I have received
   your dear letter with true delight; I do not know why
   it should be. We have known each other so long, that it
   is almost natural that I should love you. I do love you
   dearly, dearest Arthur; and with a heart thankful for
   God's goodness to me, I will put my hand in yours with
   perfect trust--fearing nothing, then, as far as this world
   is concerned.

   I do not regard the poverty of which you speak, at least
   not for my own sake. What I have of my own is, I know,
   very little. I wish now that I could make it more for you.
   But, no; I will wish for nothing more, seeing that so much
   has been given to me. Everything has been given to me when
   I have your love.

   I hope that this will not interfere with your mother's
   comfort. If anything now could make me unhappy, it would
   be that she should not be pleased at our prospects. Give
   her my kindest, kindest love; and tell her that I hope she
   will let me look on her as a mother.

   I will write to Mary very soon; but bid her write to me
   first. I cannot tell her how happy, how very happy I
   really am, till she has first wished me joy.

   I have, of course, told aunt Penelope. She, too, says
   something about poverty. I tell her it is croaking. The
   honest do not beg their bread; do they, Arthur? But in
   spite of her croaking, she will be very happy to see you
   on Monday, if it shall suit you to come. If so, let me
   have one other little line. But I am so contented now,
   that I shall hardly be more so even to have you here.

   God bless you, my own, own, own dearest.

   Ever yours with truest affection,

   ADELA.

And I also hope that Adela's letter will not be considered unmaidenly; but I have my fears.
There will be those who will say that it is sadly deficient in reserve. Ah! had she not been
reserved enough for the last four or five years? Reserve is beautiful in a maiden if it be
rightly timed. Sometimes one would fain have more of it. But when the heart is full, and when
it may speak out; when time, and circumstances, and the world permit--then we should say that
honesty is better than reserve. Adela's letter was honest on the spur of the moment. Her reserve
had been the work of years.

Arthur, at any rate, was satisfied. Her letter seemed to him to be the very perfection of words.
Armed with that he would face his mother, though she appeared armed from head to foot in the
Stapledean panoply. While he was reading his letter he was at breakfast with them all; and
when he had finished it for the second time, he handed it across the table to his mother.

"Oh! I suppose so," was her only answer, as she gave it him back.

The curiosity of the girls was too great now for the composure of their silent dignity. "It
is from Adela," said Mary; "what does she say?"

"You may read it," said Arthur, again handing the letter across the table.

"Well, I do wish you joy," said Mary, "though there will be so very little money."

Seeing that Arthur, since his father's death, had, in fact, supported his mother and sisters
out of his own income, this reception of his news was rather hard upon him. And so he felt it.

"You will not have to share the hardships," he said, as he left the room; "and so you need
not complain."

There was nothing more said about it that morning; but in the evening, when they were alone,
he spoke to his sister again. "You will write to her, Mary, I hope?"

"Yes, I will write to her," said Mary, half ashamed of herself.

"Perhaps it is not surprising that my mother should be vexed, seeing the false position in
which both she and I have been placed; partly by my fault, for I should not have accepted the
living under such conditions."

"Oh, Arthur, you would not have refused it?"

"I ought to have done so. But, Mary, you and the girls should be ready to receive Adela with
open arms. What other sister could I have given you that you would have loved better?"

"Oh, no one; not for her own sake--no one half so well."

"Then tell her so, and do not cloud her prospects by writing about the house. You have all
had shelter and comfort hitherto, and be trustful that it will be continued to you."

This did very well with his sister; but the affair with his mother was much more serious. He
began by telling her that he should go to Littlebath on Monday, and be back on Wednesday.

"Then I shall go to Bowes on Wednesday," said Mrs. Wilkinson. Now we all know that Bowes is
a long way from Staplehurst. The journey has already been made once in these pages. But Mrs.
Wilkinson was as good as her word.

"To Bowes!" said Arthur.

"Yes, to Bowes, sir; to Lord Stapledean. That is, if you hold to your scheme of turning me
out of my own house."

"I think it would be better, mother, that we should have two establishments."

"And, therefore, I am to make way for you and that--" viper, she was going to say again; but
looking into her son's face, she became somewhat more merciful--"for you," she said, "and that
chit!"

"As clergyman of the parish, I think that I ought to live in the parsonage. You, mother, will
have so much the larger portion of the income."

"Very well. There need be no more words about it. I shall start for Bowes on next Wednesday."
And so she did.

Arthur wrote his "one other little line." As it was three times as long as his first letter,
it shall not be printed. And he did make his visit to Littlebath. How happy Adela was as she
leant trustingly on his arm, and felt that it was her own! He stayed, however, but one night,
and was back at Staplehurst before his mother started for Bowes.

CHAPTER XIII.

ANOTHER JOURNEY TO BOWES.

Mrs. Wilkinson did not leave her home for her long and tedious journey without considerable
parade. Her best new black silk dress was packed up in order that due honour might be done
to Lord Stapledean's hospitality, and so large a box was needed that Dumpling and the four-wheeled
carriage were hardly able to take her to the railway-station. Then there arose the question
who should drive her. Arthur offered to do so; but she was going on a journey of decided hostility
as regarded him, and under such circumstances she could not bring herself to use his services
even over a portion of the road. So the stable-boy was her charioteer.

She talked about Lord Stapledean the whole evening before she went. Arthur would have explained
to her something of that nobleman's character if she would have permitted it. But she would
not. When he hinted that she would find Lord Stapledean austere in his manner, she answered
that his lordship no doubt had had his reasons for being austere with so very young a man as
Arthur had been. When he told her about the Bowes hotel, she merely shook her head significantly.
A nobleman who had been so generous to her and hers as Lord Stapledean would hardly allow her
to remain at the inn.

"I am very sorry that the journey is forced upon me," she said to Arthur, as she sat with her
bonnet on, waiting for the vehicle.

"I am sorry that you are going, mother, certainly," he had answered; "because I know that it
will lead to disappointment."

"But I have no other course left open to me," she continued. "I cannot see my poor girls turned
out houseless on the world." And then, refusing even to lean on her son's arm, she stepped
up heavily into the carriage, and seated herself beside the boy.

"When shall we expect you, mamma?" said Sophia.

"It will be impossible for me to say; but I shall be sure to write as soon as I have seen his
lordship. Good-bye to you, girls." And then she was driven away.

"It is a very foolish journey," said Arthur.

"Mamma feels that she is driven to it," said Sophia.

Mrs. Wilkinson had written to Lord Stapledean two days before she started, informing his lordship
that it had become very necessary that she should wait upon him on business connected with
the living, and therefore she was aware that her coming would not be wholly unexpected. In
due process of time she arrived at Bowes, very tired and not a little disgusted at the great
expense of her journey. She had travelled but little alone, and knew nothing as to the cost
of hotels, and not a great deal as to that of railways, coaches, and post-chaises. But at last
she found herself in the same little inn which had previously received Arthur when he made
the same journey.

"The lady can have a post-chaise, of course," said the landlady, speaking from the bar. "Oh,
yes, Lord Stapledean is at home, safe enough. He's never very far away from it to the best
of my belief."

"It's only a mile or so, is it?" said Mrs. Wilkinson.

"Seven long miles, ma'am," said the landlady.

"Seven miles! dear, dear. I declare I never was so tired in my life. You can put the box somewhere
behind in the post-chaise, can't you?"

"Yes, ma'am; we can do that. Be you a-going to stay at his lordship's, then?"

To this question Mrs. Wilkinson made an ambiguous answer. Her confidence was waning, now that
she drew near to the centre of her aspirations. But at last she did exactly as her son had
done before her. She said she would take her box; but that it was possible she might want a
bed that evening. "Very possible," the landlady said to herself.

"And you'll take a bite of something before you start, ma'am," she said, out loud. But, no;
it was only now twelve o'clock, and she would be at Bowes Lodge a very little after one. She
had still sufficient confidence in Lord Stapledean to feel sure of her lunch. When people reached
Hurst Staple Vicarage about that hour, there was always something for them to eat. And so she
started.

It was April now; but even in April that bleak northern fell was very cold. Nothing more inhospitable
than that road could be seen. It was unsheltered, swept by every blast, very steep, and mercilessly
oppressed by turnpikes. Twice in those seven miles one-and-sixpence was inexorably demanded
from her.

"But I know one gate always clears the other, when they are so near," she argued.

"Noa, they doant," was all the answer she received from the turnpike woman, who held a baby
under each arm.

"I am sure the woman is robbing me," said poor Mrs. Wilkinson.

"No, she beant," said the post-boy. They are good hearty people in that part of the world;
but they do not brook suspicion, and the courtesies of life are somewhat neglected. And then
she arrived at Lord Stapledean's gate.

"Be you she what sent the letter?" said the woman at the lodge, holding it only half open.

"Yes, my good woman; yes," said Mrs. Wilkinson, thinking that her troubles were now nearly
over. "I am the lady; I am Mrs. Wilkinson."

"Then my lord says as how you're to send up word what you've got to say." And the woman still
stood in the gateway.

"Send up word!" said Mrs. Wilkinson.

"Yees. Just send up word. Here's Jock can rin up."

"But Jock can't tell his lordship what I have to say to him. I have to see his lordship on
most important business," said she, in her dismay.

"I'm telling you no more that what my lord said his ain sell. He just crawled down here his
ain sell. 'If a woman comes,' said he, 'don't let her through the gate till she sends up word
what she's got to say to me.'" And the portress looked as though she were resolved to obey
her master's orders.

"Good heavens! There must be some mistake in this, I'm sure. I am the clergyman of Staplehurst--I
mean his widow. Staplehurst, you know; his lordship's property."

"I didna know nothing aboot it."

"Oh, drive on, post-boy. There must be some mistake. The woman must be making some dreadful
mistake."

At last the courage of the lodge-keeper gave way before the importance of the post-chaise,
and she did permit Mrs. Wilkinson to proceed.

"Mither," said the woman's eldest hope, "you'll cotch it noo."

"Eh, lad; weel. He'll no hang me." And so the woman consoled herself.

The house called Bowes Lodge looked damper and greener, more dull, silent, and melancholy,
even than it had done when Arthur made his visit. The gravel sweep before the door was covered
by weeds, and the shrubs looked as though they had known no gardener's care for years. The
door itself did not even appear to be for purposes of ingress and egress, and the post-boy
had to search among the boughs and foliage with which the place was overgrown before he could
find the bell. When found, it sounded with a hoarse, rusty, jangling noise, as though angry
at being disturbed in so unusual a manner.

But, rusty and angry as it was, it did evoke a servant--though not without considerable delay.
A cross old man did come at last, and the door was slowly opened. "Yes," said the man. "The
marquis was at home, no doubt. He was in the study. But that was no rule why he should see
folk." And then he looked very suspiciously at the big trunk, and muttered something to the
post-boy, which Mrs. Wilkinson could not hear.

"Will you oblige me by giving my card to his lordship--Mrs. Wilkinson? I want to see him on
very particular business. I wrote to his lordship to say that I should be here."

"Wrote to his lordship, did you? Then it's my opinion he won't see you at all."

"Yes, he will. If you'll take him my card, I know he'll see me. Will you oblige me, sir, by
taking it into his lordship?" And she put on her most imperious look.

The man went, and Mrs. Wilkinson sat silent in the post-chaise for a quarter of an hour. Then
the servant returned, informing her that she was to send in her message. His lordship had given
directions at the lodge that she was not to come up, and could not understand how it had come
to pass that the lady had forced her way to the hall-door. At any rate, he would not see her
till he knew what it was about.

Now it was impossible for Mrs. Wilkinson to explain the exact nature of her very intricate
case to Lord Stapledean's butler, and yet she could not bring herself to give up the battle
without making some further effort. "It is about the vicarage at Hurst Staple," said she; "the
vicarage at Hurst Staple," she repeated, impressing the words on the man's memory. "Don't forget,
now." The man gave a look of ineffable scorn, and then walked away, leaving Mrs. Wilkinson
still in the post-chaise.

And now came on an April shower, such as April showers are on the borders of Westmoreland.
It rained and blew; and after a while the rain turned to sleet. The post-boy buttoned up his
coat, and got under the shelter of the portico; the horses drooped their heads, and shivered.
Mrs. Wilkinson wished herself back at Hurst Staple--or even comfortably settled at Littlebath,
as her son had once suggested.

"His lordship don't know nothing about the vicarage," bellowed out the butler, opening the
hall-door only half way, so that his face just appeared above the lock.

"Oh, dear! oh, dear!" said Mrs. Wilkinson. "Just let me down into the hall, and then I will
explain it to you."

"Them 'orses 'll be foundered as sure as heggs," said the post-boy.

Mrs. Wilkinson at last succeeded in making her way into the hall, and the horses were allowed
to go round to the yard. And then at last, after half a dozen more messages to and fro, she
was informed that Lord Stapledean would see her. So dreadful had been the contest hitherto,
that this amount of success was very grateful. Her feeling latterly had been one of intense
hostility to the butler rather than to her son. Now that she had conquered that most savage
Cerberus, all would be pleasant with her. But, alas! she soon found that in passing Cerberus
she had made good her footing in a region as little desirable as might be.

She was ushered into the same book-room in which Arthur had been received, and soon found herself
seated in the same chair, and on the same spot. Lord Stapledean was thinner now, even than
he had been then; he had a stoop in his shoulders, and his face and hair were more gray. His
eyes seemed to his visitor to be as sharp and almost as red as those of ferrets. As she entered,
he just rose from his seat and pointed to the chair on which she was to sit.

"Well, ma'am," said he; "what's all this about the clergyman's house at Hurst Staple? I don't
understand it at all."

"No, my lord; I'm sure your lordship can't understand. That's why I have thought it my duty
to come all this way to explain it."

"All what way?"

"All the way from Hurst Staple, in Hampshire, my lord. When your lordship was so considerate
as to settle what my position in the parish was to be--"

"Settle your position in the parish!"

"Yes, my lord--as to my having the income and the house."

"What does the woman mean?" said he, looking down towards the rug beneath his feet, but speaking
quite out loud. "Settle her position in the parish! Why, ma'am, I don't know who you are, and
what your position is, or anything about you."

"I am the widow of the late vicar, Lord Stapledean; and when he died--"

"I was fool enough to give the living to his son. I remember all about it. He was an imprudent
man, and lived beyond his means, and there was nothing left for any of you--wasn't that it?"

"Yes, my lord," said Mrs. Wilkinson, who was so troubled in spirit that she hardly knew what
to say. "That is, we never lived beyond our means at all, my lord. There were seven children;
and they were all educated most respectably. The only boy was sent to college; and I don't
think there was any imprudence--indeed I don't, my lord. And there was something saved; and
the insurance was always regularly paid; and--"

The marquis absolutely glared at her, as she went on with her domestic defence. The household
at Hurst Staple had been creditably managed, considering the income; and it was natural that
she should wish to set her patron right. But every word that she said carried her further away
from her present object.

"And what on earth have you come to me for?" said Lord Stapledean.

"I'll tell your lordship, if you'll only allow me five minutes. Your lordship remembers when
poor Mr. Wilkinson died?"

"I don't remember anything about it."

"Your lordship was good enough to send for Arthur."

"Arthur!"

"Yes, my lord."

"Who's Arthur?"

"My boy, my lord. Don't you remember? He was just in orders then, and so you were good enough
to put him into the living--that is to say, not exactly into the living; but to make him curate,
as it were; and you allocated the income to me; and--"

"Allocated the income!" said Lord Stapledean, putting up his hands in token of unlimited surprise.

"Yes, my lord. Your lordship saw just how it was; and, as I could not exactly hold the living
myself--"

"Hold the living yourself! Why, are you not a woman, ma'am?"

"Yes, my lord, of course; that was the reason. So you put Arthur into the living, and you allocated
the income to me. That is all settled. But now the question is about the house."

"The woman's mad," said Lord Stapledean, looking again to the carpet, but speaking quite out
loud. "Stark mad. I think you'd better go home, ma'am; a great deal better."

"My lord, if you'd only give yourself the trouble to understand me--"

"I don't understand a word you say. I have nothing to do with the income, or the house, or
with you, or with your son."

"Oh, yes, my lord, indeed you have."

"I tell you I haven't, ma'am; and what's more, I won't."

"He's going to marry, my lord," continued Mrs. Wilkinson, beginning to whimper; "and we are
to be turned out of the house, unless you will interfere to prevent it. And he wants me to
go and live at Littlebath. And I'm sure your lordship meant me to have the house when you allocated
the income."

"And you've come all the way to Bowes, have you, because your son wants to enjoy his own income?"

"No, my lord; he doesn't interfere about that. He knows he can't touch that, because your lordship
allocated it to me--and, to do him justice, I don't think he would if he could. And he's not
a bad boy, my lord; only mistaken about this."

"Oh, he wants his own house, does he?"

"But it isn't his own house, you know. It has been my house ever since his father died. And
if your lordship will remember--"

"I tell you what, Mrs. Wilkinson; it seems to me that your son should not let you come out
so far by yourself--"

"My lord!"

"And if you'll take my advice, you'll go home as fast as you can, and live wherever he bids you."

"But, my lord--"

"At any rate, I must beg you not to trouble me any more about the matter. When I was a young
man your husband read with me for a few months; and I really think that two presentations to
the living have been a sufficient payment for that. I know nothing about your son, and I don't
want to know anything. I dare say he's as good as most other clergymen--"

"Oh, yes; he is, my lord."

"But I don't care a straw who lives in the house."

"Don't you, my lord?" said Mrs. Wilkinson, very despondently.

"Not one straw. I never heard such a proposition from a woman in my life--never. And now, if
you'll allow me, I'll wish you good-morning, ma'am. Good-morning to you." And the marquis made
a slight feint, as though to raise himself from his chair.

Mrs. Wilkinson got up, and stood upright before him, with her handkerchief to her eyes. It
was very grievous to her to have failed so utterly. She still felt sure that if Lord Stapledean
would only be made to understand the facts of the case, he would even yet take her part. She
had come so far to fight her battle, that she could not bring herself to leave the ground as
long as a chance of victory remained to her. How could she put the matter in the fewest words,
so as to make the marquis understand the very--very truth?

"If your lordship would only allow me to recall to your memory the circumstances of the case,--how
you, yourself, allocated--"

Lord Stapledean turned suddenly at the bell-rope, and gave it a tremendous pull--then another--and
then a third, harder than the others. Down came the rope about his ears, and the peal was heard
ringing through the house.

"Thompson," he said to the man, as he entered, "show that lady the door."

"Yes, my lord."

"Show her the door immediately."

"Yes, my lord," said Thompson, standing irresolute. "Now, ma'am; the post-chaise is waiting."

Mrs. Wilkinson had still strength enough to prevent collapse, and to gather herself together
with some little feminine dignity. "I think I have been very badly treated," she said, as she
prepared to move.

"Thompson," shrieked the marquis, in his passion; "show that lady the door."

"Yes, my lord;" and Thompson gracefully waved his hand, pointing down the passage. It was the
only way in which he could show Mrs. Wilkinson the way out.

And then, obedient to necessity, she walked forth. Never had she held her head so high, or
tossed her bonnet with so proud a shake, as she did in getting into that post-chaise. Thompson
held the handle of the carriage-door: he also offered her his arm, but she despised any such
aid. She climbed in unassisted; the post-boy mounted his jade; and so she was driven forth,
not without titters from the woman at the lodge-gate. With heavy heart she reached the inn,
and sat herself down to weep alone in her bedroom.

"So, you've come back?" said the landlady.

"Ugh!" exclaimed Mrs. Wilkinson.

We will not dwell long on her painful journey back to Hurst Staple; nor on the wretched reflections
with which her mind was laden. She sent on a line by post to her eldest daughter, so that she
was expected; and Dumpling and the phaëton and the stable-boy were there to meet her. She had
feared that Arthur would come: but Arthur had dreaded the meeting also; and, having talked
the matter over with his sisters, had remained at home. He was in the book-room, and hearing
the wheels, as the carriage drew up to the door, he went out to greet his mother on the steps.

At the first moment of meeting there was nothing said, but she warmly pressed the hand which
he held out to her.

"What sort of a journey have you had?" said Sophia.

"Oh, it is a dreadful place!" said Mrs. Wilkinson.

"It is not a nice country," said Arthur.

By this time they were in the drawing-room, and the mother was seated on a sofa, with one of
her girls on each side of her.

"Sophy," she said, "get up for a moment; I want Arthur to come here." So Sophy did get up,
and her son immediately taking her place, put his arm round his mother's waist.

"Arthur," she whispered to him, "I fear I have been foolish about this."

That was all that was ever said to him about the journey to Bowes. He was not the man to triumph
over his mother's failure. He merely kissed her when her little confession was made, and pressed
her slightly with his arm. From that time it was understood that Adela was to be brought thither,
as soon as might be, to reign the mistress of the vicarage; and that then, what further arrangements
might be necessary, were to be made by them all at their perfect leisure. That question of
the nursery might, at any rate, remain in abeyance for twelve months.

Soon after that, it was decided in full conclave, that if Adela would consent, the marriage
should take place in the summer. Very frequent letters passed between Hurst Staple and Littlebath,
and Mrs. Wilkinson no longer alluded to them with severity, or even with dislike. Lord Stapledean
had, at any rate, thoroughly convinced her that the vicarage-house belonged to the vicar--to
the vicar male, and not to the vicar female; and now that her eyes had been opened on this
point, she found herself obliged to confess that Adela Gauntlet would not make a bad wife.

"Of course we shall be poor, mother; but we expect that."

"I hope you will, at least, be happy," said Mrs. Wilkinson, not liking at present to dwell
on the subject of their poverty, as her conscience began to admonish her with reference to
the three hundred and fifty pounds per annum.

"I should think I might be able to get pupils," continued Arthur. "If I had two at one hundred
and fifty pounds each, we might be comfortable enough."

"Perhaps Adela would not like to have lads in the house."

"Ah, mother, you don't know Adela. She will not object to anything because she does not herself
like it." And in this manner that affair was so far settled.

And then Adela was invited to Hurst Staple, and she accepted the invitation. She was not coy
in declaring the pleasure with which she did so, nor was she bashful or shamefaced in the matter.
She loved the man that she was to marry--had long loved him; and now it was permitted to her
to declare her love. Now it was her duty to declare it, and to assure him, with all the pretty
protestations in her power, that her best efforts should be given to sweeten his cup, and smooth
his path. Her duty now was to seek his happiness, to share his troubles, to be one with him.
In her mind it was not less her duty now than it would be when, by God's ordinance, they should
be one bone and one flesh.

While their mother had held her seat on her high horse, with reference to that question of
the house, Sophia and Mary had almost professed hostility to Adela. They had given in no cordial
adherence to their brother's marriage; but now they were able to talk of their coming sister
with interest and affection. "I know that Adela would like this, Arthur;" and "I'm sure that
Adela would prefer that;" and "when we're gone, you know, Adela will do so and so." Arthur
received all this with brotherly love and the kindest smiles, and thanked God in his heart
that his mother had taken that blessed journey to Bowes Lodge.

"Adela," he once said to her, as they were walking together, one lonely spring evening, along
the reedy bank of that river, "Adela, had I had your courage, all this would have been settled
long since."

"I don't know," she said; "but I am sure of this, that it is much better as it is. Now we may
fairly trust that we do know our own minds. Love should be tried, perhaps, before it is trusted."

"I should have trusted yours at the first word you could have spoken, the first look you would
have given me."

"And I should have done so too; and then we might have been wrong. Is it not well as it is,
Arthur?"

And then he declared that it was very well; very well, indeed. Ah, yes! how could it have been
better with him? He thought too of his past sorrows, his deep woes, his great disappointments;
of that bitter day at Oxford when the lists came down; of the half-broken heart with which
he had returned from Bowes; of the wretchedness of that visit to West Putford. He thought of
the sad hours he had passed, seated idle and melancholy in the vicarage book-room, meditating
on his forlorn condition. He had so often wailed over his own lot, droning out a dirge, a melancholy
væ victis for himself! And now, for the first time, he could change the note. Now, his song
was Io triumphe, as he walked along. He shouted out a joyful pæan with the voice of his heart.
Had he taken the most double of all firsts, what more could fate have given to him? or, at
any rate, what better could fate have done for him?

And to speak sooth, fate had certainly given to him quite as much as he had deserved.

And then it was settled that they should be married early in the ensuing June. "On the first,"
said Arthur. "No; the thirtieth," said Adela, laughing. And then, as women always give more
than they claim, it was settled that they should be married on the eleventh. Let us trust that
the day may always be regarded as propitious.

CHAPTER XIV.

MR. BERTRAM'S DEATH.

Sir Henry Harcourt had certainly played his hand badly, considering the number of trumps that
he had held, and that he had turned up an honour in becoming solicitor-general. He was not
now in a happy condition. He was living alone in his fine house in Eaton Square; he was out
of office; he was looked on with an evil eye by his former friends, in that he had endeavoured
to stick to office too long; he was deeply in debt, and his once golden hopes with reference
to Mr. Bertram were becoming fainter and fainter every day. Nor was this all. Not only did
he himself fear that he should get but little of the Hadley money, but his creditors had begun
to have the same fears. They had heard that he was not to be the heir, and were importunate
accordingly. It might be easy to stave them off till Mr. Bertram should be under the ground;
but then--what then? His professional income might still be large, though not increasing as
it should have done. And what lawyer can work well if his mind be encumbered by deep troubles
of his own?

He had told George Bertram that he would go down to Hadley and claim his wife if he did not
receive a favourable message from his wife's grandfather; and he now determined to take some
such step. He felt himself driven to do something; to bring about some arrangement; to make
some use of the few remaining grains of sand which were still to run through the glass that
was measuring out the lees of life for that old man.

So thinking, but not quite resolved as to what he would do when he reached the house, he started
for Hadley. He knew that George was still there, that his wife was there, and that Mr. Bertram
was there; and he trusted that he should not fail at any rate in seeing them. He was not by
nature a timid man, and had certainly not become so by education; but, nevertheless, his heart
did not beat quite equably within his bosom when he knocked at the rich man's door.

Of course he was well known to the servant. At first he asked after Mr. Bertram, and was told
that he was much the same--going very fast; the maid did not think that Sir Henry could see
him. The poor girl, knowing that the gentleman before her was not a welcome visitor, stood
in the doorway, as though to guard the ladies who were in the drawing-room.

"Who is here now?" said Sir Henry. "Who is staying here?"

"Mr. George," said the girl, thinking that she would be safest in mentioning his name, "and
Miss Baker, sir."

"Lady Harcourt is here, I suppose?"

"Yes, sir; her ladyship is in the drawing-room," and she shook in her shoes before him as she
made the announcement.

For a moment Sir Henry was inclined to force his way by the trembling young woman, and appear
before the ladies. But then, what would he get by it? Angry as he was with all the Hadley people,
he was still able to ask himself that question. Supposing that he were there, standing before
his wife; supposing even that he were able to bring her to his feet by a glance, how much richer
would that make him? What bills would that pay? He had loved his wife once with a sort of love;
but that day was gone. When she had been at such pains to express her contempt for him, all
tenderness had deserted him. It might be wise to make use of her--not to molest her, as long
as her grandfather lived. When the old miser should have gone, it would be time for him to
have his revenge. In the meantime, he could gain nothing by provoking her. So he told the servant
that he wished to see Mr. George Bertram.

As it happened, George and Lady Harcourt were together, and Miss Baker was keeping watch with
the sick man upstairs. The drawing-room was close to the hall, and Caroline's eager ear caught
the tones of her husband's voice.

"It is Sir Henry," she said, becoming suddenly pale, and rising to her feet, as though prepared
to retreat to some protection. Bertram's duller ear could not hear him, but he also rose from
his chair. "Are you sure it is he?"

"I heard his voice plainly," said Caroline, in a tremulous whisper. "Do not leave me, George.
Whatever happens, do not leave me." They called each other now by their Christian names, as
cousins should do; and their intercourse with each other had never been other than cousinly
since that parting in Eaton Square.

And then the door was opened, and the maid-servant, in the glummest of voices, announced that
Sir Henry wanted to see Mr. George.

"Show him into the dining-room," said George; and then following the girl after a minute's
interval, he found himself once more in the presence of his old friend.

Sir Henry was even darker looking, and his brow still more forbidding than at that last interview
at George's chambers. He was worn and care-marked, and appeared to be ten years older than
was really the case. He did not wait till George should address him, but began at once:--

"Bertram," said he, with a voice intended to be stern, "there are two persons here I want to
see, your uncle and my wife."

"I make no objection to your seeing either, if they are willing to see you."

"Yes; but that won't do for me. My duty compels me to look after them both, and I mean to do
so before I leave Hadley."

"I will send your name to them at once," said George; "but it must depend on them whether they
will see you." And so saying, he rang the bell, and sent a message up to his uncle.

Nothing was said till the girl returned. Sir Henry paced the room backward and forward, and
George stood leaning with his back against the chimney-piece. "Mr. Bertram says that he'll
see Sir Henry, if he'll step up stairs," said the girl.

"Very well. Am I to go up now?"

"If you please, sir."

Bertram followed Sir Henry to the door, to show him the room; but the latter turned round on
the stairs, and said that he would prefer to have no one present at the interview.

"I will only open the door for you," said the other. This he did, and was preparing to return,
when his uncle called him. "Do not go away, George," said he. "Sir Henry will want you to show
him down again." And so they stood together at the bedside.

"Well, Sir Henry, this is kind of you," said he, putting his thin, bony hand out upon the coverlid,
by way of making an attempt at an Englishman's usual greeting.

Sir Henry took it gently in his, and found it cold and clammy. "It is nearly all over now,
Sir Henry," said the old man.

"I hope not," said the visitor, with the tone usual on such occasions. "You may rally yet,
Mr. Bertram."

"Rally!" And there was something in the old man's voice that faintly recalled the bitter railing
sound of other days. "No; I don't suppose I shall ever rally much more."

"Well; we can only hope for the best. That's what I do, I can assure you."

"That is true. We do hope for the best--all of us. I can still do that, if I do nothing else."

"Of course," said Sir Henry. And then he stood still for a while, meditating how best he might
make use of his present opportunity. What could he say to secure some fraction of the hundreds
of thousands which belonged to the dying man? That he had a right to at least a moiety of them
his inmost bosom told him; but how should he now plead his rights? Perhaps after all it would
have been as well for him to have remained in London.

"Mr. Bertram," at last he said, "I hope you won't think it unbecoming in me if I say one word
about business in your present state?"

"No--no--no," said the old man. "I can't do much, as you see; but I'll endeavour to listen."

"You can't be surprised that I should be anxious about my wife."

"Umph!" said Mr. Bertram. "You haven't treated her very well, it seems."

"Who says so?"

"A woman wouldn't leave a fine house in London, to shut herself up with a sick old man here,
if she were well treated. I don't want any one to tell me that."

"I can hardly explain all this to you now, sir; particularly--"

"Particularly as I am dying. No, you cannot. George, give me a glass of that stuff. I am very
weak, Sir Henry, and can't say much more to you."

"May I ask you this one question, sir? Have you provided for your granddaughter?"

"Provided for her!" and the old man made a sadly futile attempt to utter the words with that
ominous shriek which a few years since would have been sure to frighten any man who would have
asked such a question. "What sort of man can he be, George, to come to me now with such a question?"
And so saying, he pulled the clothes over him as though resolved to hold no further conversation.

"He is very weak," said George. "I think you had better leave him."

A hellish expression came across the lawyer's face. "Yes," he said to himself; "go away, that
I may leave you here to reap the harvest by yourself. Go away, and know myself to be a beggar."
He had married this man's grandchild, and yet he was to be driven from his bedside like a stranger.

"Tell him to go," said Mr. Bertram. "He will know it all in a day or two."

"You hear what he says," whispered George.

"I do hear," muttered the other, "and I will remember."

"He hardly thinks I would alter my will now, does he? Perhaps he has pen and ink in his pocket,
ready to do it."

"I have only spoken in anxiety about my wife," said Sir Henry; "and I thought you would remember
that she was your child's daughter."

"I do remember it. George, why doesn't he leave me?"

"Harcourt, it will be better that you should go," said Bertram; "you can have no idea how weak
my uncle is;" and he gently opened the door.

"Good-bye, Mr. Bertram. I had not intended to disturb you." And so saying, Sir Henry slunk away.

"You know what his will is, of course," said Sir Henry, when they were again in the dining-room.

"I have not the slightest idea on the subject," said the other; "not the remotest conception.
He never speaks to me about it."

"Well; and now for Lady Harcourt. Where shall I find her?"

To this question George gave no answer; nor was he able to give any. Caroline was no longer
in the drawing-room. Sir Henry insisted that he would see her, and declared his intention of
staying in the house till he did so. But Miss Baker at last persuaded him that all his efforts
would be useless. Nothing but force would induce Lady Harcourt to meet him.

"Then force shall be used," said Sir Henry.

"At any rate not now," said George.

"What, sir! do you set yourself up as her protector? Is she base enough to allow you to interfere
between her and her husband?"

"I am her protector at the present moment, Sir Henry. What passed between us long since has
been now forgotten. But we are still cousins; and while she wants protection, I shall give
it to her."

"Oh, you will; will you?"

"Certainly. I look upon her as though she were my sister. She has no other brother."

"That's very kind of you, and very complaisant of her. But what if I say that I don't choose
that she should have any such brother? Perhaps you think that as I am only her husband, I ought
not to have any voice in the matter?"

"I do not suppose that you can care for her much, after the word you once used to her."

"And what the devil is it to you what word I used to her? That's the tack you go on, is it?
Now, I'll tell you fairly what I shall do. I will wait till the breath is out of that old man's
body, and then I shall take my wife out of this house--by force, if force be necessary." And
so saying, Sir Henry turned to the front door, and took his departure, without making any further
adieu.

"What dreadful trouble we shall have!" whimpered Miss Baker, almost in tears.

Things went on at Hadley for three days longer without any change, except that Mr. Bertram
became weaker, and less inclined to speak. On the third morning, he did say a few words:--"George,
I begin to think I have done wrong about you; but I fear it is too late."

His nephew declared that he was sure that things would turn out well, muttering any platitude
which might quiet the dying man.

"But it is too late, isn't it?"

"For any change in your will, sir? Yes, it is too late. Do not think of it."

"Ah, yes; it would be very troublesome--very troublesome. Oh, me! It has nearly come now, George;
very nearly."

It had very nearly come. He did not again speak intelligibly to any of them. In his last hours
he suffered considerably, and his own thoughts seemed to irritate him. But when he did mutter
a few words, they seemed to refer to trivial matters--little plagues which dying men feel as
keenly as those who are full of life. To the last he preferred George either to his niece or
to his granddaughter; and was always best pleased when his nephew was by him. Once or twice
he mentioned Mr. Pritchett's name; but he showed his dissent when they proposed to send for
his man of business.

On the afternoon of that day, he breathed his last in the presence of his three relatives.
His nearest relative, indeed, was not there; nor did they dare to send for him. He had latterly
expressed so strong a disgust at the very name of Sir Lionel, that they had ceased by common
consent to mention Bertram's father. He seemed to be aware that his last moments were approaching,
for he would every now and then raise his withered hand from off the bed, as though to give
them warning. And so he died, and the eyes of the rich man were closed.

He died full of years, and perhaps in one, and that the most usual acceptation of the word,
full of honour. He owed no man a shilling, had been true to all his engagements, had been kind
to his relatives with a rough kindness: he had loved honesty and industry, and had hated falsehood
and fraud: to him the herd, born only to consume the fruits, had ever been odious; that he
could be generous, his conduct in his nephew's earliest years had plainly shown: he had carried,
too, in his bosom a heart not altogether hardened against his kind, for he had loved his nephew,
and, to a certain extent, his niece also, and his granddaughter.

But in spite of all this, he had been a bad man. He had opened his heart to that which should
never find admittance to the heart of man. The iron of his wealth had entered into his very
soul. He had made half a million of money, and that half-million had been his god--his only
god--and, indeed, men have but one god. The true worship of the one loved shrine prevents all
other worship. The records of his money had been his deity. There, in his solitude at Hadley,
he had sat and counted them as they grew, mortgages and bonds, deeds and scrip, shares in this
and shares in that, thousands in these funds and tens of thousands in those. To the last, he
had gone on buying and selling, buying in the cheap market and selling in the dear; and everything
had gone well with him.

Everything had gone well with him! Such was the City report of old Mr. Bertram. But let the
reader say how much, or rather how little, had gone well. Faustus-like, he had sold himself
to a golden Mephistopheles, and his Margaret had turned to stone within his embrace.

How many of us make Faust's bargain! The bodily attendance of the devil may be mythical; but
in the spirit he is always with us. And how rarely have we the power to break the contract!
The London merchant had so sold himself. He had given himself body and soul to a devil. The
devil had promised him wealth, and had kept his word. And now the end had come, though the
day of his happiness had not yet arrived.

But the end had not come. All this was but the beginning. If we may believe that a future life
is to be fitted to the desires and appetites as they are engendered here, what shall we think
of the future of a man whose desire has been simply for riches, whose appetite has been for
heaps of money? How miserably is such a poor wretch cheated! How he gropes about, making his
bargain with blind eyes; thinking that he sees beyond his neighbours! Who is so green, so soft,
so foolishly the victim of the sorriest sharper as this man? Weigh out all his past, and what
has it been? Weigh out his future--if you can--and think what it must be. Poor, dull Faustus!
What! thou hast lost everything among the thimble-riggers? Poor, dull, stupid wretch!

Mr. Bertram had not been a good man, nor had he been a wise man. But he had been highly respectable,
and his memory is embalmed in tons of marble and heaps of monumental urns. Epitaphs, believed
to be true, testify to his worth; and deeds, which are sometimes as false as epitaphs, do the
same. He is a man of whom the world has agreed to say good things; to whom fame, that rich
City fame, which speaks with a cornet-a-piston made of gold, instead of a brazen trumpet, has
been very kind.--But, nevertheless, he was not a good man. As regards him, it will only remain
for us to declare what was his will, and that shall be done in the next chapter.

