"I say further that if our affairs are to be settled according to conscience, that the chapter
of the letter which their Highnesses wrote me when I departed, in which they say they will
order you placed in possession, must be shown; and the writing must also be shown which is
in the Book of Privileges, which shows how in reason and in justice the third and eighth and
the tenth are mine.  There will always be opportunity to make reductions from this amount."

Columbus's requests were not all for himself; nothing could be more sincere or generous than
the spirit in which he always strove to secure the just payment of his mariners.

Otherwise he is still concerned with the favour shown to those who were treasonable to him.
Camacho was still hiding in a church, probably from the wrath of Bartholomew Columbus; but
Christopher has more subtle ways of punishment.  A legal document, he considers, will be better
than a rod; "it will not be so much against the conscience of the chastiser, and will injure
him (the chastised) more."

     Letter written by CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS to DON DIEGO, his Son,
     January 18, 1505.

     "VERY DEAR SON,--I wrote you at length by the courier who will
     arrive there to-day, and sent you a letter for the Lord Chamberlain.
     I intended to inclose in it a copy of that chapter of the letter
     from their Highnesses in which they say they will order you placed
     in possession; but I forgot to do it here.  Zamora, the courier,
     came.  I read your letter and also those of your uncle and brother
     and Carbajal, and felt great pleasure in learning that they had
     arrived well, as I had been very anxious about them.  Diego Mendez
     will leave here in three or four days with the order of payment
     prepared.  He will take a long statement of everything and I will
     write to Juan Velasquez.  I desire his friendship and service.  I
     believe that he is a very honourable gentleman.  If the Lord Bishop
     of Palencia has come, or comes, tell him how much pleased I have
     been with his prosperity, and that if I go there I must stop with
     his Worship even if he does not wish it, and that we must return to
     our first fraternal love.  And that he could not refuse it because
     my service will force him to have it thus.  I said that the letter
     for the Holy Father was sent that his Worship might see it if he was
     there, and also the Lord Archbishop of Seville, as the King might
     not have opportunity to read it.  I have already told you that the
     petition to their Highnesses must be for the fulfilment of what they
     wrote me about the possession and of the rest which was promised me.
     I said that this chapter of the letter must be shown them and said
     that it must not be delayed, and that this is advisable for an
     infinite number of reasons.  His Highness may believe that, however
     much he gives me, the increase of his exalted dominions and revenue
     will be in the proportion of 100 to 1, and that there is no
     comparison between what has been done and what is to be done.  The
     sending of a Bishop to Espanola must be delayed until I speak to his
     Highness.  It must not be as in the other cases when it was thought
     to mend matters and they were spoiled.  There have been some cold
     days here and they have caused me great fatigue and fatigue me now.
     Commend me to the favour of the Lord Adelantado.  May our Lord guard
     and bless you and your brother.  Give my regards to Carbajal and
     Jeronimo.  Diego Mendez will carry a full pouch there.  I believe
     that the affair of which you wrote can be very easily managed.  The
     vessels from the Indies have not arrived from Lisbon.  They brought
     a great deal of gold, and none for me.  So great a mockery was never
     seen, for I left there 60,000 pesos smelted.  His Highness should
     not allow so great an affair to be ruined, as is now taking place.
     He now sends to the Governor a new provision.  I do not know what it
     is about.  I expect letters each day.  Be very careful about
     expenditures, for it is necessary.

     "Done January 18.
     "Your father who loves you more than himself.

There is playful reference here to Fonseca, with whom Columbus was evidently now reconciled;
and he was to be buttonholed and made to read the Admiral's letter to the Pope.  Diego Mendez
is about to start, and is to make a "long statement"; and in the meantime the Admiral will
write as many long letters as he has time for.  Was there no friend at hand, I wonder, with
wit enough to tell the Admiral that every word he wrote about his grievances was sealing his
doom, so far as the King was concerned?  No human being could have endured with patience this
continuous heavy firing at long range to which the Admiral subjected his friends at Court;
every post that arrived was loaded with a shrapnel of grievances, the dull echo of which must
have made the ears of those who heard it echo with weariness.  Things were evidently humming
in Espanola; large cargoes of negroes had been sent out to take the place of the dead natives,
and under the harsh driving of Ovando the mines were producing heavily.  The vessels that arrived
from the Indies brought a great deal of gold; "but none for me."

     Letter written by CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS to his Son, DON DIEGO,
     February 5, 1505.

     "VERY DEAR SON,--Diego Mendez left here Monday, the 3rd of this
     month.  After his departure I talked with Amerigo Vespucci, the
     bearer of this letter, who is going yonder, where he is called in
     regard to matters of navigation.  He was always desirous of pleasing
     me.  He is a very honourable man.  Fortune has been adverse to him
     as it has been to many others.  His labours have not profited him as
     much as reason demands.  He goes for me, and is very desirous of
     doing something to benefit me if it is in his power.  I do not know
     of anything in which I can instruct him to my benefit, because I do
     not know what is wanted of him there.  He is going with the
     determination to do everything for me in his power.  See what he can
     do to profit me there, and strive to have him do it; for he will do
     everything, and will speak and will place it in operation: and it
     must all be done secretly so that there may be no suspicion.

     "I have told him all that could be told regarding this matter, and
     have informed him of the payment which has been made to me and is
     being made.  This letter is for the Lord Adelantado also, that he
     may see how Amerigo Vespucci can be useful, and advise him about it.
     His Highness may believe that his ships went to the best and richest
     of the Indies, and if anything remains to be learned more than has
     been told, I will give the information yonder verbally, because it
     is impossible to give it in writing.  May our Lord have you in his
     Holy keeping.

     "Done in Seville, February 5.

     "Your father who loves you more than himself.

This letter has a significance which raises it out of the ruck of this complaining correspondence.
Amerigo Vespucci had just returned from his long voyage in the West, when he had navigated
along an immense stretch of the coast of America, both north and south, and had laid the foundations
of a fame which was, for a time at least, to eclipse that of Columbus.  Probably neither of
the two men realised it at this interview, or Columbus would hardly have felt so cordially
towards the man who was destined to rob him of so much glory.  As a matter of fact the practical
Spaniards were now judging entirely by results; and a year or two later, when the fame of Columbus
had sunk to insignificance, he was merely referred to as the discoverer of certain islands,
while Vespucci, who after all had only followed in his lead, was hailed as the discoverer of
a great continent.  Vespucci has been unjustly blamed for this state of affairs, although he
could no more control the public estimate of his services than Columbus could.  He was a more
practical man than Columbus, and he made a much better impression on really wise and intelligent
men; and his discoveries were immediately associated with trade and colonial development, while
Columbus had little to show for his discoveries during his lifetime but a handful of gold dust
and a few cargoes of slaves.  At any rate it was a graceful act on the part of Vespucci, whose
star was in the ascendant, to go and seek out the Admiral, whose day was fast verging to night;
it was one of those disinterested actions that live and have a value of their own, and that
shine out happily amid the surrounding murk and confusion.

     Letter signed by CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS to DON DIEGO, his Son,
     February 25, 1505.

     "VERY DEAR SON,--The Licientiate de Zea is a person whom I desire to
     honour.  He has in his charge two men who are under prosecution at
     the hands of justice, as shown by the information which is inclosed
     in this letter.  See that Diego Mendez places the said petition with
     the others, that they may be given to his Highness during Holy Week
     for pardon.  If the pardon is granted, it is well, and if not, look
     for some other manner of obtaining it.  May our Lord have you in His
     Holy keeping.  Done in Seville, February 25, 1505.  I wrote you and
     sent it by Amerigo Vespucci.  See that he sends you the letter
     unless you have already received it.

     "Your father.
                    Xpo FERENS.//"

This is the last letter of Columbus known to us otherwise an entirely unimportant document,
dealing with the most transient affairs.  With it we gladly bring to an end this exposure of
a greedy and querulous period, which speaks so eloquently for itself that the less we say and
comment on it the better.

In the month of May the Admiral was well enough at last to undertake the journey to Segovia.
He travelled on a mule, and was accompanied by his brother Bartholomew and his son Ferdinand.
When he reached the Court he found the King civil and outwardly attentive to his recitals,
but apparently content with a show of civility and outward attention. Columbus was becoming
really a nuisance; that is the melancholy truth. The King had his own affairs to attend to;
he was already meditating a second marriage, and thinking of the young bride he was to bring
home to the vacant place of Isabella; and the very iteration of Columbus's complaints and demands
had made them lose all significance for the King. He waved them aside with polite and empty
promises, as people do the demands of importunate children; and finally, to appease the Admiral
and to get rid of the intolerable nuisance of his applications, he referred the whole question,
first to Archbishop DEA, and then to the body of councillors which had been appointed to interpret
Queen Isabella's will. The whole question at issue was whether or not the original agreement
with Columbus, which had been made before his discoveries, should be carried out.  The King,
who had foolishly subscribed to it simply as a matter of form, never believing that anything
much could come of it, was determined that it should not be carried out, as it would give Columbus
a wealth and power to which no mere subject of a crown was entitled.  The Admiral held fast
to his privileges; the only thing that he would consent to submit to arbitration was the question
of his revenues; but his titles and territorial authorities he absolutely stuck to.  Of course
the council did exactly what the King had done.  They talked about the thing a great deal,
but they did nothing.  Columbus was an invalid and broken man, who might die any day, and it
was obviously to their interest to gain time by discussion and delay--a cruel game for our
Christopher, who knew his days on earth to be numbered, and who struggled in that web of time
in which mortals try to hurry the events of the present and delay the events of the future.
Meanwhile Philip of Austria and his wife Juana, Isabella's daughter, had arrived from Flanders
to assume the crown of Castile, which Isabella had bequeathed to them.  Columbus saw a chance
for himself in this coming change, and he sent Bartholomew as an envoy to greet the new Sovereigns,
and to enlist their services on the Admiral's behalf.  Bartholomew was very well received,
but he was too late to be of use to the Admiral, whom he never saw again; and this is our farewell
to Bartholomew, who passes out of our narrative here.  He went to Rome after Christopher's
death on a mission to the Pope concerning some fresh voyages of discovery; and in 1508 he made,
so far as we know, his one excursion into romance, when he assisted at the production of an
illegitimate little girl--his only descendant.  He returned to Espanola under the governorship
of his nephew Diego, and died there in 1514 --stern, valiant, brotherly soul, whose devotion
to Christopher must be for ever remembered and honoured with the name of the Admiral.

From Segovia Columbus followed the Court to Salamanca and thence to Valladolid, where his increasing
illness kept him a prisoner after the Court had left to greet Philip and Juana.  He had been
in attendance upon it for nearly a year, and without any results: and now, as his infirmity
increased, he turned to the settling of his own affairs, and drawing up of wills and codicils--all
very elaborate and precise.  In these occupations his worldly affairs were duly rounded off;
and on May 19, 1506, having finally ratified a will which he had made in Segovia a year before,
in which the descent of his honours was entailed upon Diego and his heirs, or failing him Ferdinand
and his heirs, or failing him Bartholomew and his heirs, he turned to the settlement of his soul.

His illness had increased gradually but surely, and he must have known that he was dying. 
He was not without friends, among them the faithful Diego Mendez, his son Ferdinand, and a
few others.  His lodging was in a small house in an unimportant street of Valladolid, now called
the "Calle de Colon"; the house, .No. 7, still standing, and to be seen by curious eyes.  As
the end approached, the Admiral, who was being attended by Franciscan monks, had himself clothed
in a Franciscan habit; and so, on the 20th May 1506, he lay upon his bed, breathing out his life.

               .  .  .  And as strange thoughts
               Grow with a certain humming in my ears,
               About the life before I lived this life,
               And this life too, Popes, Cardinals, and priests,
               Your tall pale mother with her talking eyes
               And new-found agate urns fresh as day .  .  .

