ESSAYS IN THE ART OF WRITING

Contents:
   On some technical elements of style in literature
   The morality of the profession of letters
   Books which have influenced me
   A note on realism
   My first book:  'Treasure Island'
   The genesis of 'the master of Ballantrae'
   Preface to 'the master of Ballantrae'

ON SOME TECHNICAL ELEMENTS OF STYLE IN LITERATURE {1}

There is nothing more disenchanting to man than to be shown the springs and mechanism of any
art.  All our arts and occupations lie wholly on the surface; it is on the surface that we
perceive their beauty, fitness, and significance; and to pry below is to be appalled by their
emptiness and shocked by the coarseness of the strings and pulleys.  In a similar way, psychology
itself, when pushed to any nicety, discovers an abhorrent baldness, but rather from the fault
of our analysis than from any poverty native to the mind.  And perhaps in aesthetics the reason
is the same:  those disclosures which seem fatal to the dignity of art seem so perhaps only
in the proportion of our ignorance; and those conscious and unconscious artifices which it
seems unworthy of the serious artist to employ were yet, if we had the power to trace them
to their springs, indications of a delicacy of the sense finer than we conceive, and hints
of ancient harmonies in nature.  This ignorance at least is largely irremediable.  The amateur,
in consequence, will always grudgingly receive details of method, which can be stated but never
can wholly be explained; nay, on the principle laid down in Hudibras, that

'Still the less they understand, The more they admire the sleight-of-hand,'

many are conscious at each new disclosure of a diminution in the ardour of their pleasure.
I must therefore warn that well-known character, the general reader, that I am here embarked
upon a most distasteful business:  taking down the picture from the wall and looking on the
back; and, like the inquiring child, pulling the musical cart to pieces.

1.  Choice of Words.--The art of literature stands apart from among its sisters, because the
material in which the literary artist works is the dialect of life; hence, on the one hand,
a strange freshness and immediacy of address to the public mind, which is ready prepared to
understand it; but hence, on the other, a singular limitation.  The sister arts enjoy the use
of a plastic and ductile material, like the modeller's clay; literature alone is condemned
to work in mosaic with finite and quite rigid words.  You have seen these blocks, dear to the
nursery:  this one a pillar, that a pediment, a third a window or a vase.  It is with blocks
of just such arbitrary size and figure that the literary architect is condemned to design the
palace of his art.  Nor is this all; for since these blocks, or words, are the acknowledged
currency of our daily affairs, there are here possible none of those suppressions by which
other arts obtain relief, continuity, and vigour:  no hieroglyphic touch, no smoothed impasto,
no inscrutable shadow, as in painting; no blank wall, as in architecture; but every word, phrase,
sentence, and paragraph must move in a logical progression, and convey a definite conventional
import.

Now the first merit which attracts in the pages of a good writer, or the talk of a brilliant
conversationalist, is the apt choice and contrast of the words employed.  It is, indeed, a
strange art to take these blocks, rudely conceived for the purpose of the market or the bar,
and by tact of application touch them to the finest meanings and distinctions, restore to them
their primal energy, wittily shift them to another issue, or make of them a drum to rouse the
passions.  But though this form of merit is without doubt the most sensible and seizing, it
is far from being equally present in all writers.  The effect of words in Shakespeare, their
singular justice, significance, and poetic charm, is different, indeed, from the effect of
words in Addison or Fielding.  Or, to take an example nearer home, the words in Carlyle seem
electrified into an energy of lineament, like the faces of men furiously moved; whilst the
words in Macaulay, apt enough to convey his meaning, harmonious enough in sound, yet glide
from the memory like undistinguished elements in a general effect.  But the first class of
writers have no monopoly of literary merit.  There is a sense in which Addison is superior
to Carlyle; a sense in which Cicero is better than Tacitus, in which Voltaire excels Montaigne:
it certainly lies not in the choice of words; it lies not in the interest or value of the matter;
it lies not in force of intellect, of poetry, or of humour. The three first are but infants
to the three second; and yet each, in a particular point of literary art, excels his superior
in the whole.  What is that point?

2.  The Web.--Literature, although it stands apart by reason of the great destiny and general
use of its medium in the affairs of men, is yet an art like other arts.  Of these we may distinguish
two great classes:  those arts, like sculpture, painting, acting, which are representative,
or, as used to be said very clumsily, imitative; and those, like architecture, music, and the
dance, which are self-sufficient, and merely presentative.  Each class, in right of this distinction,
obeys principles apart; yet both may claim a common ground of existence, and it may be said
with sufficient justice that the motive and end of any art whatever is to make a pattern; a
pattern, it may be, of colours, of sounds, of changing attitudes, geometrical figures, or imitative
lines; but still a pattern.  That is the plane on which these sisters meet; it is by this that
they are arts; and if it be well they should at times forget their childish origin, addressing
their intelligence to virile tasks, and performing unconsciously that necessary function of
their life, to make a pattern, it is still imperative that the pattern shall be made.

Music and literature, the two temporal arts, contrive their pattern of sounds in time; or,
in other words, of sounds and pauses. Communication may be made in broken words, the business
of life be carried on with substantives alone; but that is not what we call literature; and
the true business of the literary artist is to plait or weave his meaning, involving it around
itself; so that each sentence, by successive phrases, shall first come into a kind of knot,
and then, after a moment of suspended meaning, solve and clear itself.  In every properly constructed
sentence there should be observed this knot or hitch; so that (however delicately) we are led
to foresee, to expect, and then to welcome the successive phrases.  The pleasure may be heightened
by an element of surprise, as, very grossly, in the common figure of the antithesis, or, with
much greater subtlety, where an antithesis is first suggested and then deftly evaded.  Each
phrase, besides, is to be comely in itself; and between the implication and the evolution of
the sentence there should be a satisfying equipoise of sound; for nothing more often disappoints
the ear than a sentence solemnly and sonorously prepared, and hastily and weakly finished.

The conjurer juggles with two oranges, and our pleasure in beholding him springs from this,
that neither is for an instant overlooked or sacrificed.  So with the writer.  His pattern,
which is to please the supersensual ear, is yet addressed, throughout and first of all, to
the demands of logic.  Whatever be the obscurities, whatever the intricacies of the argument,
the neatness of the fabric must not suffer, or the artist has been proved unequal to his design.
And, on the other hand, no form of words must be selected, no knot must be tied among the phrases,
unless knot and word be precisely what is wanted to forward and illuminate the argument; for
to fail in this is to swindle in the game.  The genius of prose rejects the cheville no less
emphatically than the laws of verse; and the cheville, I should perhaps explain to some of
my readers, is any meaningless or very watered phrase employed to strike a balance in the sound.
Pattern and argument live in each other; and it is by the brevity, clearness, charm, or emphasis
of the second, that we judge the strength and fitness of the first.

Style is synthetic; and the artist, seeking, so to speak, a peg to plait about, takes up at
once two or more elements or two or more views of the subject in hand; combines, implicates,
and contrasts them; and while, in one sense, he was merely seeking an occasion for the necessary
knot, he will be found, in the other, to have greatly enriched the meaning, or to have transacted
the work of two sentences in the space of one.  In the change from the successive shallow statements
of the old chronicler to the dense and luminous flow of highly synthetic narrative, there is
implied a vast amount of both philosophy and wit.  The philosophy we clearly see, recognising
in the synthetic writer a far more deep and stimulating view of life, and a far keener sense
of the generation and affinity of events.  The wit we might imagine to be lost; but it is not
so, for it is just that wit, these perpetual nice contrivances, these difficulties overcome,
this double purpose attained, these two oranges kept simultaneously dancing in the air, that,
consciously or not, afford the reader his delight.  Nay, and this wit, so little recognised,
is the necessary organ of that philosophy which we so much admire.  That style is therefore
the most perfect, not, as fools say, which is the most natural, for the most natural is the
disjointed babble of the chronicler; but which attains the highest degree of elegant and pregnant
implication unobtrusively; or if obtrusively, then with the greatest gain to sense and vigour.
Even the derangement of the phrases from their (so-called) natural order is luminous for the
mind; and it is by the means of such designed reversal that the elements of a judgment may
be most pertinently marshalled, or the stages of a complicated action most perspicuously bound
into one.

The web, then, or the pattern:  a web at once sensuous and logical, an elegant and pregnant
texture:  that is style, that is the foundation of the art of literature.  Books indeed continue
to be read, for the interest of the fact or fable, in which this quality is poorly represented,
but still it will be there.  And, on the other hand, how many do we continue to peruse and
reperuse with pleasure whose only merit is the elegance of texture?  I am tempted to mention
Cicero; and since Mr. Anthony Trollope is dead, I will. It is a poor diet for the mind, a very
colourless and toothless 'criticism of life'; but we enjoy the pleasure of a most intricate
and dexterous pattern, every stitch a model at once of elegance and of good sense; and the
two oranges, even if one of them be rotten, kept dancing with inimitable grace.

