The inner side of life answers all the questionings of our mind, and as we learn this truth
we depend less and less upon the things created, but live constantly in the energy that creates,
and through this operate our whole life.

Silence was first in the scheme of creation. Remember this: "The darkness and the silence knew.
So is a man's fate born."

There is no creation that will last that is born on the plane of external action for the law
of that plane is change. In the hush of the valley of silence we accumulate the inward power
which pushes our external expression into bloom. In the inner side of living the soul enlarges
its dimensions and when it comes back into the earthly things it gilds them with a glory not
their own. And the length and the breadth and the height are equal."

The building of a glorious perfected selfhood, this is the work of every life.

We all come into existence equal in privilege, we are all born equal in latent power, which,
if developed, will keep us shoulder to shoulder in this game of living out; but not until this
latent power is developed and brought out into external manifestation can any life really declare
its mastery.

Life has one grand prize for all, and this prize is life's master position. The chance to compete
for this prize is given to all at birth, but the power to push forward in the pursuit of it
is only developed by those who know that it is really within them, and knowing this begin systematically
to unfold it. Not everyone is equal in the externalization of this latent energy, and no matter
how much or how little any life may possess it, still it has its own point of contact for power,
and it can come forth in its own way in wisdom of conquest.

Life as we find it here on earth is like a great garden; each soul comes into this world garden
and its place and keynote is struck upon the harp of life and the registration is made in the
universal harmony; then it must work out its own part until it comes into perfect tune with
the other parts of the great universal chord.

Not a life is born into expression here, but in the unseen realm an angel or higher master
ministers at its birth, and its name is written in the Lamb's book of life (or the Universal
Cosmic Mind). Each life drops into its own selected and appointed place; it has its own special
mission to perform, its own lessons to learn, its own part to work out, and its own grand privilege
of development.

In essence all life is one, and all humanity is the same; the One Life is in all and through
all, without regard to class, creed or color, but in manifested expression we must forever
be different; some lives are younger in their unfoldment--they are unfinished; some have finer
bodies through which to manifest consciousness; some are born into positions where there is
more required of them than of others, for the price of usefulness is the ability to be useful;
some are never useful and live idle aimless lives because they have not yet incorporated within
themselves the power to be of use to others.

The nation, the race, the individual and the environment are simply signals which we hang upon
ourself of just what we created and unfolded within our own consciousness.

We come the reaper of the things we sowed, and just where we find ourselves here is the picture
of how well or how ill we have used the years behind us, but the privilege of new use and new
development is still within us; we stand each day on the threshold of a new lifetime, ready
to begin over and over again our new unfoldment.

Around each life is the All Consciousness, and it can fashion for itself a new world, made
of the cosmic substance with which it is connected.

The great unfolding mass of humanity pass along, taking themselves as a confused bundle of
states of being, acted upon by the external force of people and environment, and in turn acting
back with no conscious idea of creation, never knowing that with what measure we mete it shall
be meted unto us.

This process of being acted upon and acting back unconsciously, produces a type of energy that
cannot fail but bring forth masses of individuals who are in bondage, body, mind and spirit,
for spirit has not sensed its eternal birthright of liberty.

Looking at this world garden full of natural wild flowers, called the "human race," New Thought
sees clearly that whatever response an individual gives to his environment is the evidence
of his own special power, and that this personal power may, by conscious control and direction,
give him complete mastery, and through this he passes uninterrupted into possession of life's
master position and the prize of peace and power and wisdom.

The individual is always the actor; the environment is always acted upon, and this acting and
acting upon again gives forth an expression, and the exchange and inter-exchange between the
two produces what the world calls the character of a life, and looking upon the product of
this play of forces, we say "he is a genius," "he is a thief," "he is a God-man," or, "he is
a degenerate," measuring with the example that is hung before our eyes.

Up to this point all men are really equal; they are simply alive in consciousness, but just
as the gardener takes the flower and transplants it to specialized soil, and causes it to bud
and bloom with all the energy within it, just so man's own consciousness can take his soul
and teach him how he can lift himself into states of specialized human power and show forth
all the glory of a divinely developed man.

Everyone can take his place at any level of living that he chooses just as soon as he knows
that there is no one to say "no" to him but himself.

Strong positive thoughts put truth into the hearts of men, and this builds them upward and
inward towards harmony.

This great universal law of harmonious consciousness is the reed with which everyone may measure
himself and with which each one is taught to take his own dimensions and never lay it down
until his city of character stands equal in height, breadth, and depth, and length.

When we measure ourselves by the golden reed of consciousness, we find by the signs of ourself
and our environment if our city of self is right, and if it is not we can rebuild it in finer
architectural fashioning.

There are many lives that have neither breadth, nor height, nor depth, they have only length;
they pass along through life tied to one idea or at least a few ideas; they are narrow, bigoted,
selfish and careless about the other dimensions of themselves; they see through their glass
darkly, the things of their own immediate knowledge are enough for them; they are exclusive
and powerful in one direction, and humanity might break itself to pieces just outside their
narrow life for they neither hear nor care; they are all right, secure in their length of narrow,
personal endeavor. They are afraid of anything that is outside of their own field of vision,
and their life is altogether too small and straight and strained, for any but a few of their
own kind to hold on to; their days are full of anxiety and worry, for their hold on truth is
too weak to bring them to power, and wisdom.

Again, after we see how we measure in length, we can turn the golden reed upon ourselves for
specialization in breadth, and often again we find a shortcoming. The breadth must also be
equal; we cannot fail in our breadth and come into true wisdom, true breadth means inclusion--this
may vary in degree, but there must never be exclusion of anything in the well-rounded character,
there is conscious selection, but never exclusion; there is nothing in or under or above the
earth but that is companion with us on our journey toward divine unfoldment.

