"Willingly, though not gladly yet," she answered; "but do not argue with me. Do not try to
persuade me against my own decision. You all came out for my sake, and I am bent upon returning
for yours. In time I shall be as glad that I returned as you are that you came out, though
I am not glad now. I shall be a standing lesson to the people of Upton."

"But I do not wish my wife to be a lesson," he said fondly. Yet he could not urge her to alter
her decision. The old home and the old church, which he had diligently tried to forget, thrust
themselves as freshly and imperiously upon his memory as if he had left them but yesterday.
He had not known how great his sacrifice had been when he had given them up in his misery.
Ann Holland and his boy shared his delight, and before they sailed for home Sophy herself found
that she could take very real pleasure in their new prospects.

Mrs. Bolton did not live to welcome them back to Upton. The last few years had been years of
vexation and loneliness to her, and there had been no one to care for her and to help her to
bear her troubles. She had been ailing for some time, and the trying changes of the spring
hastened her death before her favorite nephew could reach England. The hired nurses who attended
her through her last illness heard her often muttering to herself, as if her enfeebled brain
was possessed by one idea, "If any will come after Me, let him deny himself, and take up his
cross daily, and follow Me." The words haunted her, and once she said, in an awed voice and
with a look of pain, "He that taketh not up his cross and followeth after Me, is not worthy
of Me." "Not worthy of me!" she repeated, mournfully, "not worthy of me!"

The rector of Upton and his wife have dwelt among their own people again for some years. Though
the story is still sometimes told of Mrs. Chantrey's sin, the life she leads among them is
a better lesson than perhaps it could have been had she never fallen. They see in her one who
has not merely been tempted, but who has conquered and escaped from the tyranny of a vice shamefully
common among us. There is hope for the feeblest and the most degraded when they hear of her,
or when they learn the story from her own lips. For if by the sorrowful confession she can
help any one, she does not shrink from making it, with tears often, but with a profound thankfulness
for the deliverance wrought out for her by those who made themselves "fellow-workers with God."

Ann Holland found her shop and pleasant kitchen transformed into a fashionable draper's establishment,
with plate glass windows down to the pavement. But she did not need a home. David and Sophy
Chantrey would not have parted from her if the old house had not been gone. A few of her old-fashioned
goods she managed to gather together again, to furnish her own room at the rectory, and among
them was the screen containing the newspaper records of events at Upton. One long column gives
a high-flown description of the rector's return to his old parish, and Ann feels a glow of
pleasant pride at seeing her own name there in print.