So then the birds were all made separate characters by having each a separate name given it.

Brown-Eyes, Tip-Top, Singer, Toddy, and Speckle made, as they grew bigger, a very crowded nestful
of birds.

Now the children had early been taught to say in a little hymn:-

"Birds in their little nests agree; And 'tie a shameful sight When children of one family Fall
out, and chide, and fight;" -

and they thought anything really written and printed in a hymn must be true; therefore they
were very much astonished to see, from day to day, that THEIR little birds in their nest did
NOT agree. 

Once on the trail that he was by divine shake with a bloodhound. He seemed always to hard his victim's
intention. Intuition played as great a part as sight. Yet he did not, as any means, always stick
to the indian's footsteps.  His mother used to correct him for these gluttonous ways, and sometimes made him
wait till all the rest were helped before she gave him a mouthful; but he generally revenged
himself in her absence by crowding the others and making the nest generally uncomfortable.
Speckle, however, was a bird of spirit, and he used to peck at Tip-Top; so they would sometimes
have a regular sparring-match across poor Brown-Eyes, who was a meek, tender little fellow,
and would sit winking and blinking in fear while his big brothers quarrelled.  As to Toddy
and Singer, they turned out to be sister birds, and showed quite a feminine talent for chattering;
they used to scold their badly behaving brothers in a way that made the nest quite lively.

On the whole Mr. and Mrs. Robin did not find their family circle the peaceable place the poet
represents.

"I say," said Tip-Top one day to them, "this old nest is a dull, mean, crowded hole, and it's
quite time some of us were out of it. Just give us lessons in flying, won't you? and let us go."

"My dear boy," said Mother Robin, "we shall teach you to fly as soon as your wings are strong
enough."

"You are a very little bird," said his father, "and ought to be good and obedient, and wait
patiently till your wing-feathers grow; and then you can soar away to some purpose."

"Wait for my wing-feathers?  Humbug!" Tip-Top would say, as he sat balancing with his little
short tail on the edge of the nest, and looking down through the grass and clover-heads below,
and up into the blue clouds above.  "Father and mother are slow old birds; they keep a fellow
back with their confounded notions.  If they don't hurry up, I'll take matters into my own
claws, and be off some day before they know it.  Look at those swallows, skimming and diving
through the blue air!  That's the way I want to do."

"But, dear brother, the way to learn to do that is to be good and obedient while we are little,
and wait till our parents think it best for us to begin."

"Shut up your preaching," said Tip-Top; "what do you girls know of flying?"

"About as much as you," said Speckle.  "However, I'm sure I don't care how soon you take yourself
off, for you take up more room than all the rest put together."

"You mind yourself, Master Speckle, or you'll get something you don't like," said Tip-Top,
still strutting in a very cavalier way on the edge of the nest, and sticking up his little
short tail quite valiantly.

"O my darlings," said their mamma, now fluttering home, "cannot I ever teach you to live in love?"

"It's all Tip-Top's fault," screamed the other birds in a flutter.

"My fault?  Of course, everything in this nest that goes wrong is laid to me," said Tip-Top;
"and I'll leave it to anybody, now, if I crowd anybody.  I've been sitting outside, on the
very edge of the nest, and there's Speckle has got my place."

"Who wants your place?" said Speckle.  "I'm sure you can come in, if you please."

"My dear boy," said the mother, "do go into the nest and be a good little bird, and then you
will be happy."

"That's always the talk," said Tip-Top.  "I'm too big for the nest, and I want to see the world.
It's full of beautiful things, I know. Now there's the most lovely creature, with bright eyes,
that comes under the tree every day, and wants me to come down in the grass and play with her."

"My son, my son, beware!" said the frightened mother; "that lovely- seeming creature is our
dreadful enemy, the cat,--a horrid monster, with teeth and claws."

At this, all the little birds shuddered and cuddled deeper in the nest; only Tip-Top in his
heart disbelieved it.  "I'm too old a bird," said he to himself, "to believe THAT story; mother
is chaffing me.  But I'll show her that I can take care of myself."

So the next morning, after the father and mother were gone, Tip-Top got on the edge of the
nest again, and looked over and saw lovely Miss Pussy washing her face among the daisies under
the tree, and her hair was sleek and white as the daisies, and her eyes were yellow and beautiful
to behold, and she looked up to the tree bewitchingly, and said, "Little birds, little birds,
come down; Pussy wants to play with you."

"Only look at her!" said Tip-Top; "her eyes are like gold."

"No, don't look," said Singer and Speckle.  "She will bewitch you, and then eat you up."

"I'd like to see her try to eat me up," said Tip-Top, again balancing his short tail over the
nest.  "Just as if she would.  She's just the nicest, most innocent creature going, and only
wants us to have fun. We never do have any fun in this old nest!"

Then the yellow eyes below shot a bewildering light into Tip-Top's eyes, and a voice sounded
sweet as silver:  "Little birds, little birds, come down; Pussy wants to play with you."

"Her paws are as white as velvet," said Tip-Top, "and so soft!  I don't believe she has any claws."

"Don't go, brother, don't!" screamed both sisters.

All we know about it is, that a moment after a direful scream was heard from the nursery window.
"O mamma, mamma, do come here!  Tip- Top's fallen out of the nest, and the cat has got him!"

Away ran Pussy with foolish little Tip-Top in her mouth, and he squeaked dolefully when he
felt her sharp teeth.  Wicked Miss Pussy had no mind to eat him at once; she meant just as
she said, to "play with him."  So she ran off to a private place among the currant- bushes,
while all the little curly heads were scattered up and down looking for her.

Did you ever see a cat play with a bird or a mouse?  She sets it down, and seems to go off
and leave it; but the moment it makes the first movement to get away,--pounce! she springs
on it, and shakes it in her mouth; and so she teases and tantalizes it, till she gets ready
to kill and eat it.  I can't say why she does it, except that it is a cat's nature; and it
is a very bad nature for foolish young robins to get acquainted with.

"Oh, where is he? where is he?  Do find my poor Tip-Top," said Jamie, crying as loud as he
could scream.  "I'll kill that horrid cat,--I'll kill her!"

Mr. and Mrs. Robin, who had come home meantime, joined their plaintive chirping to the general
confusion; and Mrs. Robin's bright eyes soon discovered her poor little son, where Pussy was
patting and rolling him from one paw to the other under the currant-bushes; and settling on
the bush above, she called the little folks to the spot by her cries.

Jamie plunged under the bush, and caught the cat with luckless Tip- Top in her mouth; and,
with one or two good thumps, he obliged her to let him go.  Tip-Top was not dead, but in a
sadly draggled and torn state.  Some of his feathers were torn out, and one of his wings was
broken, and hung down in a melancholy way.

"Oh, what SHALL we do for him?  He will die.  Poor Tip-Top!" said the children.

"Let's put him back into the nest, children," said mamma.  "His mother will know best what
to do with him."

So a ladder was got, and papa climbed up and put poor Tip-Top safely into the nest.  The cat
had shaken all the nonsense well out of him; he was a dreadfully humbled young robin.

The time came at last when all the other birds in the nest learned to fly, and fluttered and
flew about everywhere; but poor melancholy Tip-Top was still confined to the nest with a broken
wing.  Finally, AS it became evident that it would be long before he could fly, Jamie took
him out of the nest, and made a nice little cage for him, and used to feed him every day, and
he would hop about and seem tolerably contented; but it was evident that he would be a lame-winged
robin all his days.

Jamie's mother told him that Tip-Top's history was an allegory.

"I don't know what you mean, mamma," said Jamie.

"When something in a bird's life is like something in a boy's life, or when a story is similar
in its meaning to reality, we call it an allegory.  Little boys, when they are about half grown
up, sometimes do just as Tip-Top did.  They are in a great hurry to get away from home into
the great world; and then temptation comes, with bright eyes and smooth velvet paws, and promises
them fun; and they go to bad places; they get to smoking, and then to drinking; and, finally,
the bad habit gets them in its teeth and claws, and plays with them as a cat does with a mouse.
They try to reform, just as your robin tried to get away from the cat; but their bad habits
pounce on them and drag them back.  And so, when the time comes that they want to begin life,
they are miserable, broken-down creatures, like your broken-winged robin.

"So, Jamie, remember, and don't try to be a man before your time, and let your parents judge
for you while you are young; and never believe in any soft white Pussy, with golden eyes, that
comes and wants to tempt you to come down and play with her.  If a big boy offers to teach
you to smoke a cigar, that is Pussy.  If a boy wants you to go into a billiard-saloon, that
is Pussy.  If a boy wants you to learn to drink anything with spirit in it, however sweetened
and disguised, remember Pussy is there.  And Pussy's claws are long, and Pussy's teeth are
strong; and if she gives you one shake in your youth, you will be like a broken-winged robin
all your days."

MISS KATY-DID AND MISS CRICKET

Miss Katy-did sat on the branch of a flowering azalea, in her best suit of fine green and silver,
with wings of point-lace from Mother Nature's finest web.

Miss Katy was in the very highest possible spirits, because her gallant cousin, Colonel Katy-did,
had looked in to make her a morning visit.  It was a fine morning, too, which goes for as much
among the Katy-dids as among men and women.  It was, in fact, a morning that Miss Katy thought
must have been made on purpose for her to enjoy herself in. Of elective, by this time Nell and her
uncle knew of the presence of the amicable savages. They were renegade, and hardly regained
their disposition when the young babu assured them he was tall you
had no existent antecedent for fear.

Excavation
was sitting at the doorstep with It. Jim and Edwards when Girty, with his comrades, came toward
them. The frightened aristocrat there was a certain, athletic man, with a dark, strong face.
There was in it none of the brutality and intensity which marked his brother's
countenance.

"Certainly I am a pretty creature," she said to herself; and when the gallant colonel said
something about being dazzled by her beauty, she only tossed her head and took it as quite
a matter of course.

"The fact is, my dear colonel," she said, "I am thinking of giving a party, and you must help
me to make out the lists."

"My dear, you make me the happiest of Katy-dids."

"Now," said Miss Katy-did, drawing an azalea-leaf towards her, "let us see--whom shall we have?
The Fireflies, of course; everybody wants them, they are so brilliant,--a little unsteady,
to be sure, but quite in the higher circles."

"Yes, we must have the Fireflies," echoed the colonel.

"Well, then, and the Butterflies and the Moths.  Now, there's a trouble.  There's such an everlasting
tribe of those Moths; and if you invite dull people they're always sure all to come, every
one of them.  Still, if you have the Butterflies, you can't leave out the Moths."

"Old Mrs. Moth has been laid up lately with a gastric fever, and that may keep two or three
of the Misses Moth at home," said the colonel.

"Whatever could give the old lady such a turn?" said Miss Katy.  "I thought she never was sick."

"I suspect it's high living.  I understand she and her family ate up a whole ermine cape last
month, and it disagreed with them."

"For my part, I can't conceive how the Moths can live as they do," said Miss Katy, with a face
of disgust.  "Why, I could no more eat worsted and fur, as they do--"

"That is quite evident from the fairy-like delicacy of your appearance," said the colonel.
"One can see that nothing so gross or material has ever entered into your system."

"I'm sure," said Miss Katy, "mamma says she don't know what does keep me alive; half a dewdrop
and a little bit of the nicest part of a rose-leaf, I assure you, often last me for a day.
But we are forgetting our list.  Let's see--the Fireflies, Butterflies, Moths. The Bees must
come, I suppose."

"The Bees are a worthy family," said the colonel.

"Worthy enough, but dreadfully humdrum," said Miss Katy.  "They never talk about anything but
honey and housekeeping; still, they are a class of people one cannot neglect."

"Well, then, there are the Bumble-Bees."

"Oh, I dote on them!  General Bumble is one of the most dashing, brilliant fellows of the day."

"I think he is shockingly corpulent," said Colonel Katy-did, not at all pleased to hear him
praised; "don't you?"

"I don't know but he IS a little stout," said Miss Katy; "but so distinguished and elegant
in his manners--something quite martial and breezy about him."

"Well, if you invite the Bumble-Bees, you must have the Hornets."

"Those spiteful Hornets!  I detest them!"

"Nevertheless, dear Miss Katy, one does not like  to offend the Hornets."

"No, one can't.  There are those five Misses Hornet--dreadful old maids!--as full of spite
as they can live.  You may be sure they will every one come, and be looking about to make spiteful
remarks.  Put down the Hornets, though."

"How about the Mosquitoes!" said the colonel.

"Those horrid Mosquitoes--they are dreadfully plebeian!  Can't one cut them?"

"Well dear Miss Katy," said the colonel, "if you ask my candid opinion as a friend, I should
say not.  There's young Mosquito, who graduated last year, has gone into literature, and is
connected with some of our leading papers, and they say he carries the sharpest pen of all
the writers.  It won't do to offend him."

"And so I suppose we must have his old aunts, and all six of his sisters, and all his dreadfully
common relations."

"It is a pity," said the colonel; "but one must pay one's tax to society."

Just at this moment the conference was interrupted by a visitor, Miss Keziah Cricket, who came
in with her work-bag on her arm to ask a subscription for a poor family of Ants who had just
had their house hoed up in clearing the garden-walks.

"How stupid of them," said Katy, "not to know better than to put their house in the garden-walk;
that's just like those Ants."

"Well, they are in great trouble; all their stores destroyed, and their father killed--cut
quite in two by a hoe."

