After half an hour's march the scenery became more animated. Shaw began to be amused.  Bombay
had forgotten our quarrel, and assured me, if I could pass Mirambo's country, I should "catch
the Tanganika;" Mabruki Burton also believed we should. Selim was glad to leave Unyanyembe,
where he had suffered so much from fever; and there was a something in the bold aspect of the
hills which cropped upward--above fair valleys, that enlivened and encouraged me to proceed.

In an hour and a half, we arrived at our camp in the Kinyamwezi village of Mkwenkwe, the birthplace--of
our famous chanter Maganga.

My tent was pitched, the goods were stored in one of the tembes; but one-half the men had returned
to Kwihara, to take one more embrace of their wives and concubines.

Towards night I was attacked once again with the intermittent fever.  Before morning it had
departed, leaving me terribly prostrated with weakness.  I had heard the men conversing with
each other over their camp-fires upon the probable prospects of the next day.  It was a question
with them whether I should continue the march.  Mostly all were of opinion that, since the
master was sick, there would be no march.  A superlative obstinacy, however, impelled me on,
merely to spite their supine souls; but when I sallied out of my tent to call them to get ready,
I found that at least twenty were missing; and Livingstone's letter-carrier, "Kaif-Halek"--or,
How-do-ye-do?--had not arrived with Dr. Livingstone's letter-bag.

Selecting twenty of the strongest and faithfulest men I despatched them back to Unyanyembe
in search of the missing men; and Selim was sent to Sheikh bin Nasib to borrow, or buy, a long
slave-chain.

Towards night my twenty detectives returned with nine of the missing men.  The Wajiji had deserted
in a body, and they could not be found.  Selim also returned with a strong chain, capable of
imprisoning within the collars attached to it at least ten men. Kaif-Halek also appeared with
the letter-bag which he was to convey to Livingstone under my escort.  The men were then addressed,
and the slave-chain exhibited to them.  I told them that I was the first white man who had
taken a slave-chain with him on his travels; but, as they were all so frightened of accompanying
me, I was obliged to make use of it, as it was the only means of keeping them together. The
good need never fear being chained by me--only the deserters, the thieves, who received their
hire and presents, guns and ammunition, and then ran away.

I would not put any one this time in chains; but whoever deserted after this day, I should
halt, and not continue the march till I found him, after which he should march to Ujiji with
the slave-chain round his neck.  "Do you hear?"--"Yes," was the answer.  "Do you understand?"--"
Yes."

We broke up camp at 6 P.M., and took the road for Inesuka, at which place we arrived at 8 P.M.

When we were about commencing the march the next morning, it was discovered that two more had
deserted.  Baraka and Bombay were at once despatched to Unyanyembe to bring back the two missing
men--Asmani and Kingaru--with orders not to return without them. This was the third time that
the latter had deserted, as the reader may remember.  While the pursuit was being effected
we halted at the village of Inesuka, more for the sake of Shaw than any one else.

In the evening the incorrigible deserters were brought back, and, as I had threatened, were
well flogged and chained, to secure them against further temptation.  Bombay and Baraka had
a picturesque story to relate of the capture; and, as I was in an exceedingly good humour,
their services were rewarded with a fine cloth each.

On the following morning another carrier had absconded, taking with him his hire of fifteen
new cloths and a gun but to halt anywhere near Unyanyembe any longer was a danger that could
be avoided only by travelling without stoppages towards the southern jungle-lands. It will
be remembered I had in my train the redoubtable Abdul Kader, the tailor, he who had started
from Bagamoyo with such bright anticipations of the wealth of ivory to be obtained in the great
interior of Africa.  On this morning, daunted by the reports of the dangers ahead, Abdul Kader
craved to be discharged.  He vowed he was sick, and unable to proceed any further.  As I was
pretty well tired of him, I paid him off in cloth, and permitted him to go.

About half way to Kasegera Mabruk Saleem was suddenly taken sick. I treated him with a grain
of calomel, and a couple of ounces of brandy.  As he was unable to walk, I furnished him with
a donkey. Another man named Zaidi was ill with a rheumatic fever; and Shaw tumbled twice off
the animal he was riding, and required an infinite amount of coaxing to mount again.  Verily,
my expedition was pursued by adverse fortunes, and it seemed as if the Fates had determined
upon our return.  It really appeared as if everything was going to wreck and ruin.  If I were
only fifteen days from Unyanyembe, thought I, I should be saved!

Kasegera was a scene of rejoicing the afternoon and evening of our arrival.  Absentees had
just returned from the coast, and the youths were brave in their gaudy bedizenment, their new
barsatis, their soharis, and long cloths of bright new kaniki, with which they had adorned
themselves behind some bush before they had suddenly appeared dressed in all this finery. 
The women "Hi-hi'ed" like maenads, and the "Lu-lu-lu'ing" was loud, frequent, and fervent the
whole of that afternoon.  Sylphlike damsels looked up to the youthful heroes with intensest
admiration on their features; old women coddled and fondled them; staff-using, stooping-backed
patriarchs blessed them.  This is fame in Unyamwezi! All the fortunate youths had to use their
tongues until the wee hours of next morning had arrived, relating all the wonders they had
seen near the Great Sea, and in the "Unguja," the island of Zanzibar; of how they saw great
white men's ships, and numbers of white men, of their perils and trials during their journey
through the land of the fierce Wagogo, and divers other facts, with which the reader and I
are by this time well acquainted.

On the 24th we struck camp, and marched through a forest of imbiti wood in a S.S.W. direction,
and in about three hours came to Kigandu.

On arriving before this village, which is governed by a daughter of Mkasiwa, we were informed
we could not enter unless we paid toll.  As we would not pay toll, we were compelled to camp
in a ruined, rat-infested boma, situated a mile to the left of Kigandu, being well scolded
by the cowardly natives for deserting Mkasiwa in his hour of extremity.  We were accused of
running away from the war.

Almost on the threshold of our camp Shaw, in endeavouring to dismount, lost his stirrups, and
fell prone on his face.  The foolish fellow actually, laid on the ground in the hot sun a full
hour; and when I coldly asked him if he did not feel rather uncomfortable, he sat up, and wept
like a child.

"Do you wish to go back, Mr. Shaw?"

"If you please.  I do not believe I can go any farther; and if you would only be kind enough,
I should like to return very much."

"Well, Mr.  Shaw, I have come to the conclusion that it is best, you should return.  My patience
is worn out.  I have endeavoured faithfully to lift you above these petty miseries which you
nourish so devotedly.  You are simply suffering from hypochondria. You imagine yourself sick,
and nothing, evidently, will persuade you that you are not.  Mark my words--to return to Unyanyembe,
is to DIE!  Should you happen to fall sick in Kwihara who knows how to administer medicine
to you?  Supposing you are delirious, how can any of the soldiers know what you want, or what
is beneficial and necessary for you?  Once again, I repeat, if you return, you DIE!"

"Ah, dear me; I wish I had never ventured to come!  I thought life in Africa was so different
from this.  I would rather go back if you will permit me."

The next day was a halt, and arrangements were made for the transportation of Shaw back to
Kwihara.  A strong litter was made, and four stout pagazis were hired at Kigandu to carry him.
Bread was baked, a canteen was filled with cold tea, and a leg of a kid was roasted for his
sustenance while on the road.

The night before we parted we spent together.  Shaw played some tunes on an accordion which
I had purchased for him at Zanzibar; but, though it was only a miserable ten-dollar affair,
I thought the homely tunes evoked from the instrument that night were divine melodies.  The
last tune played before retiring was "Home, sweet Home."

The morning of the 27th we were all up early:  There was considerable vis in our movements.
A long, long march lay before us that day; but then I was to leave behind all the sick and
ailing.  Only those who were healthy, and could march fast and long, were to accompany me.
Mabruk Saleem I left in charge of a native doctor, who was to medicate him for a gift of cloth
which I gave him in advance.

The horn sounded to get ready.  Shaw was lifted in his litter on the shoulders of his carriers.
My men formed two ranks; the flags were lifted; and between these two living rows, and under
those bright streamers, which were to float over the waters of the Tanganika before he should
see them again, Shaw was borne away towards the north; while we filed off to the south, with
quicker and more elastic steps, as if we felt an incubus had been taken from us.

We ascended a ridge bristling with syenite boulders of massive size, appearing above a forest
of dwarf trees.  The view which we saw was similar to that we had often seen elsewhere.  An
illimitable forest stretching in grand waves far beyond the ken of vision--ridges, forest-clad,
rising gently one above another until they receded in the dim purple-blue distance --with a
warm haze floating above them, which, though clear enough in our neighbourhood, became impenetrably
blue in the far distance. Woods, woods, woods, leafy branches, foliage globes, or parachutes,
green, brown, or sere in colour, forests one above another, rising, falling, and receding--a
very leafy ocean.  The horizon, at all points, presents the same view, there may be an indistinct
outline of a hill far away, or here and there a tall tree higher than the rest conspicuous
in its outlines against the translucent sky--with this exception it is the same--the same clear
sky dropping into the depths of the forest, the same outlines, the same forest, the same horizon,
day after day, week after week; we hurry to the summit of a ridge, expectant of a change, but
the wearied eyes, after wandering over the vast expanse, return to the immediate surroundings,
satiated with the eversameness of such scenes.  Carlyle, somewhere in his writings, says, that
though the Vatican is great, it is but the chip of an eggshell compared to the star-fretted
dome where Arcturus and Orion glance for ever; and I say that, though the grove of Central
Park, New York, is grand compared to the thin groves seen in other great cities, that though
the Windsor and the New Forests may be very fine and noble in England, yet they are but fagots
of sticks compared to these eternal forests of Unyamwezi.

We marched three hours, and then halted for refreshments.  I perceived that the people were
very tired, not yet inured to a series of long marches, or rather, not in proper trim for earnest,
hard work after our long rest in Kwihara.  When we resumed our march again there were several
manifestations of bad temper and weariness.  But a few good-natured remarks about their laziness
put them on their mettle, and we reached Ugunda at 2 P.M. after another four hours' spurt.

Ugunda is a very large village in the district of Ugunda, which adjoins the southern frontier
of Unyanyembe.  The village probably numbers four hundred families, or two thousand souls.
It is well protected by a tall and strong palisade of three-inch timber. Stages have been erected
at intervals above the palisades with miniature embrasures in the timber, for the muskets of
the sharpshooters, who take refuge within these box-like stages to pick out the chiefs of an
attacking force.  An inner ditch, with the sand or soil thrown up three or four feet high against
the palings, serves as protection for the main body of the defenders, who kneel in the ditch,
and are thus enabled to withstand a very large force.  For a mile or two outside the village
all obstructions are  cleared, and the besieged are thus warned by sharp-eyed watchers to be
prepared for the defence before the enemy approaches within musket range.  Mirambo withdrew
his force of robbers from before this strongly-defended village after two or three ineffectual
attempts to storm it, and the Wagunda have been congratulating themselves ever since, upon
having driven away the boldest marauder that Unyamwezi has seen for generations.

The Wagunda have about three thousand acres under cultivation around their principal village,
and this area suffices to produce sufficient grain not only for their own consumption, but
also for the many caravans which pass by this way for Ufipa and Marungu.

However brave the Wagunda may be within the strong enclosure with which they have surrounded
their principal village, they are not exempt from the feeling of insecurity which fills the
soul of a Mnyamwezi during war-time.  At this place the caravans are accustomed to recruit
their numbers from the swarms of pagazis who volunteer to accompany them to the distant ivory
regions south; but I could not induce a soul to follow me, so great was their fear of Mirambo
and his Ruga-Raga.  They were also full of rumors of wars ahead.  It was asserted that Mbogo
was advancing towards Ugunda with a thousand Wakonongo, that the Wazavira had attacked a caravan
four months previously, that Simba was scouring the country with a band of ferocious mercenaries,
and much more of the same nature and to the same intent.

On the 28th we arrived at a small snug village embosomed within the forest called Benta, three
hours and a quarter from Ugunda.  The road led through the cornfields of the Wagunda, and then
entered the clearings around the villages of Kisari, within one of which we found the proprietor
of a caravan who was drumming up carriers for Ufipa.  He had been halted here two months, and
he made strenuous exertions to induce my men to join his caravan, a proceeding that did not
tend to promote harmony between us.  A few days afterwards I found, on my return, that he had
given up the idea of proceeding south.  Leaving Kisari, we marched through a thin jungle of
black jack, over sun-cracked ground with here and there a dried-up pool, the bottom of which
was well tramped by elephant and rhinoceros. Buffalo and zebra tracks were now frequent, and
we were buoyed up with the hope that before long we should meet game.

Benta was well supplied with Indian corn and a grain which the natives called choroko, which
I take to be vetches.  I purchased a large supply of choroko for my own personal use, as I
found it to be a most healthy food.  The corn was stored on the flat roofs of the tembes in
huge boxes made out of the bark of the mtundu-tree. The largest box I have ever seen in Africa
was seen here.  It might be taken for a Titan's hat-box; it was seven feet in diameter, and
ten feet in height.

On the 29th, after travelling in a S.W. by S. direction, we reached Kikuru.  The march lasted
for five hours over sun-cracked plains, growing the black jack, and ebony, and dwarf shrubs,
above which numerous ant-hills of light chalky-coloured earth appeared like sand dunes.

The mukunguru, a Kisawahili term for fever, is frequent in this region of extensive forests
and flat plains, owing to the imperfect drainage provided by nature for them.  In the dry season
there is nothing very offensive in the view of the country.  The burnt grass gives rather a
sombre aspect to the country, covered with the hard-baked tracks of animals which haunt these
plains during the latter part of the rainy season.  In the forest numbers of trees lie about
in the last stages of decay, and working away with might and main on the prostrate trunks may
be seen numberless insects of various species.  Impalpably, however, the poison of the dead
and decaying vegetation is inhaled into the system with a result sometimes as fatal as that
which is said to arise from the vicinity of the Upas-tree.

The first evil results experienced from the presence of malaria are confined bowels and an
oppressive languor, excessive drowsiness, and a constant disposition to yawn.  The tongue assumes
a yellowish, sickly hue, coloured almost to blackness; even the teeth become yellow, and are
coated with an offensive matter. The eyes of the patient sparkle lustrously, and become suffused
with water.  These are sure symptoms of the incipient fever which shortly will rage through
the system.

Sometimes this fever is preceded by a violent shaking fit, during which period blankets may
be heaped on the patient's form, with but little amelioration of the deadly chill he feels.
It is then succeeded by an unusuall/y/ severe headache, with excessive pains about the loins
and spinal column, which presently will spread over the shoulder-blades, and, running up the
neck, find a final lodgment in the back and front of the head.  Usually, however, the fever
is not preceded by a chill, but after languor and torpitude have seized him, with excessive
heat and throbbing temples, the loin and spinal column ache, and raging thirst soon possesses
him. The brain becomes crowded with strange fancies, which sometimes assume most hideous shapes.
Before the darkened vision of the suffering man, float in a seething atmosphere, figures of
created and uncreated reptiles, which are metamorphosed every instant into stranger shapes
and designs, growing every moment more confused, more complicated, more hideous and terrible.
Unable to bear longer the distracting scene, he makes an effort and opens, his eyes, and dissolves
the delirious dream, only, however, to glide again unconsciously into another dream-land where
another unreal inferno is dioramically revealed, and new agonies suffered.  Oh! the many many
hours, that I have groaned under the terrible incubi which the fits of real delirium evoke.
Oh! the racking anguish of body that a traveller in Africa must undergo!  Oh! the spite, the
fretfulness, the vexation which the horrible phantasmagoria of diabolisms induce!  The utmost
patience fails to appease, the most industrious attendance fails to gratify, the deepest humility
displeases.  During these terrible transitions, which induce fierce distraction, Job himself
would become irritable, insanely furious, and choleric.  A man in such a state regards himself
as the focus of all miseries.  When recovered, he feels chastened, becomes urbane and ludicrously
amiable, he conjures up fictitious delights from all things which, but yesterday, possessed
for him such awful portentous aspects.  His men he regards with love and friendship; whatever
is trite he views with ecstasy.  Nature appears charming; in the dead woods and monotonous
forest his mind becomes overwhelmed with delight.  I speak for myself, as a careful analysation
of the attack, in all its severe, plaintive, and silly phases, appeared to me.  I used to amuse
myself with taking notes of the humorous and the terrible, the fantastic and exaggerated pictures
that were presented to me--even while suffering the paroxysms induced by fever.

We arrived at a large pool, known as the Ziwani, after a four hours' march in a S.S.W. direction,
the 1st of October.  We discovered an old half-burnt khambi, sheltered by a magnificent mkuyu
(sycamore), the giant of the forests of Unyamwezi, which after an hour we transformed into
a splendid camp.

If I recollect rightly, the stem of the tree measured thirty-eight feet in circumference. 
It is the finest tree of its kind I have seen in Africa.  A regiment might with perfect ease
have reposed under this enormous dome of foliage during a noon halt.  The diameter of the shadow
it cast on the ground was one hundred and twenty feet.  The healthful vigor that I was enjoying
about this time enabled me to regard my surroundings admiringly.  A feeling of comfort and
perfect contentment took possession of me, such as I knew not while fretting at Unyanyembe,
wearing my life away in inactivity.  I talked with my people as to my friends and equals. We
argued with each other about our prospects in quite a companionable, sociable vein.

When daylight was dying, and the sun was sinking down rapidly over the western horizon, vividly
painting the sky with the colours of gold and silver, saffron, and opal, when its rays and
gorgeous tints were reflected upon the tops of the everlasting forest, with the quiet and holy
calm of heaven resting upon all around, and infusing even into the untutored minds of those
about me the exquisite enjoyments of such a life as we were now leading in the depths of a
great expanse of forest, the only and sole human occupants of it--this was the time, after
our day's work was ended, and the camp was in a state of perfect security, when we all would
produce our pipes, and could best enjoy the labors which we had performed, and the contentment
which follows a work well done.

Outside nothing is heard beyond the cry of a stray florican, or guinea-fowl, which has lost
her mate, or the hoarse croaking of the frogs in the pool hard by, or the song of the crickets
which seems to lull the day to rest; inside our camp are heard the gurgles of the gourd pipes
as the men inhale the blue ether, which I also love.  I am contented and happy, stretched on
my carpet under the dome of living foliage, smoking my short meerschaum, indulging in thoughts--despite
the beauty of the still grey light of the sky; and of the air of serenity which prevails around--of
home and friends in distant America, and these thoughts soon change to my work--yet incomplete--to
the man who to me is yet a myth, who, for all I know, may be dead, or may be near or far from
me tramping through just such a forest, whose tops I see bound the view outside my camp.  We
are both on the same soil, perhaps in the same forest--who knows?--yet is he to me so far removed
that he might as well be in his own little cottage of Ulva. Though I am even now ignorant of
his very existence, yet I feel a certain complacency, a certain satisfaction which would be
difficult to describe.  Why is man so feeble, and weak, that he must tramp, tramp hundreds
of miles to satisfy the doubts his impatient and uncurbed mind feels?  Why cannot my form accompany
the bold flights of my mind and satisfy the craving I feel to resolve the vexed question that
ever rises to my lips--"Is he alive?"  O soul of mine, be patient, thou hast a felicitous tranquillity,
which other men might envy thee!  Sufficient for the hour is the consciousness thou hast that
thy mission is a holy one!  Onward, and be hopeful!

Monday, the 2nd of October, found us traversing the forest and plain that extends from the
Ziwani to Manyara, which occupied us six and a half hours.  The sun was intensely hot; but
the mtundu and miombo trees grew at intervals, just enough to admit free growth to each tree,
while the blended foliage formed a grateful shade.  The path was clear and easy, the tamped
and firm red soil offered no obstructions.  The only provocation we suffered was from the attacks
of the tsetse, or panga (sword) fly, which swarmed here.  We knew we were approaching an extensive
habitat of game, and we were constantly on the alert for any specimens that might be inhabiting
these forests.

While we were striding onward, at the rate of nearly three miles an hour, the caravan I perceived
sheered off from the road, resuming it about fifty yards ahead of something on the road, to
which the attention of the men was directed.  On coming up, I found the object to be the dead
body of a man, who had fallen a victim to that fearful scourge of Africa, the small-pox. He
was one of Oseto's gang of marauders, or guerillas, in the service of Mkasiwa of Unyanyembe,
who were hunting these forests for the guerillas of Mirambo.  They had been returning from
Ukonongo from a raid they had instituted against the Sultan of Mbogo, and they had left their
comrade to perish in the road. He had apparently been only one day dead.

Apropos of this, it was a frequent thing with us to discover a skeleton or a skull on the roadside.
Almost every day we saw one, sometimes two, of these relics of dead, and forgotten humanity.

Shortly after this we emerged from the forest, and entered a mbuga, or plain, in which we saw
a couple of giraffes, whose long necks were seen towering above a bush they had been nibbling
at. This sight was greeted with a shout; for we now knew we had entered the game country, and
that near the Gombe creek, or river, where we intended to halt, we should see plenty of these
animals.

A walk of three hours over this hot plain brought us to the cultivated fields of Manyara. 
Arriving before the village-gate, we were forbidden to enter, as the country was throughout
in a state of war, and it behoved them to be very careful of admitting any party, lest the
villagers might be compromised.  We were, however, directed to a khambi to the right of the
village, near some pools of clear water, where we discovered some half dozen ruined huts, which
looked very uncomfortable to tired people.

After we had built our camp, the kirangozi was furnished with some cloths to purchase food
from the village for the transit of a wilderness in front of us, which was said to extend nine
marches, or 135 miles.  He was informed that the Mtemi had strictly prohibited his people from
selling any grain whatever.

This evidently was a case wherein the exercise of a little diplomacy could only be effective;
because it would detain us several days here, if we were compelled to send men back to Kikuru
for provisions.  Opening a bale of choice goods, I selected two royal cloths, and told Bombay
to carry them to him, with the compliments and friendship of the white man.  The Sultan sulkily
refused them, and bade him return to the white man and tell him not to bother him.  Entreaties
were of no avail, he would not relent; and the men, in exceedingly bad temper, and hungry,
were obliged to go to bed supperless.  The words of Njara, a slave- trader, and parasite of
the great Sheikh bin Nasib, recurred to me. "Ah, master, master, you will find the people will
be too much for you, and that you will have to return.  The Wa-manyara are bad, the Wakonongo
are very bad, the Wazavira are the worst of all.  You have come to this country at a bad time.
It is war everywhere."  And, indeed, judging from the tenor of the conversations around our
camp-fires, it seemed but too evident. There was every prospect of a general decamp of all
my people. However, I told them not to be discouraged; that I would get food for them in the
morning.

The bale of choice cloths was opened again next morning, and four royal cloths were this time
selected, and two dotis of Merikani, and Bombay was again despatched, burdened with compliments,
and polite words.

It was necessary to be very politic with a man who was so surly, and too powerful to make an
enemy of.  What if he made up his mind to imitate the redoubtable Mirambo, King of Uyoweh!
The effect of my munificent liberality was soon seen in the abundance of provender which came
to my camp.  Before an hour went by, there came boxes full of choroko, beans, rice, matama
or dourra, and Indian corn, carried on the heads of a dozen villagers, and shortly after the
Mtemi himself came, followed by about thirty musketeers and twenty spearmen, to visit the first
white man ever seen on this road.  Behind these warriors came a liberal gift, fully equal in
value to that sent to him, of several large gourds of honey, fowls, goats, and enough vetches
and beans to supply my men with four days' food.

I met the chief at the gate of my camp, and bowing profoundly, invited him to my tent, which
I had arranged as well as my circumstances would permit, for this reception.  My Persian carpet
and bear skin were spread out, and a broad piece of bran-new crimson cloth covered my kitanda,
or bedstead.

The chief, a tall robust man, and his chieftains, were invited to seat themselves.  They cast
a look of such gratified surprise at myself, at my face, my clothes, and guns, as is almost
impossible to describe.  They looked at me intently for a few seconds, and then at each other,
which ended in an uncontrollable burst of laughter, and repeated snappings of the fingers.
They spoke the Kinyamwezi language, and my interpreter Maganga was requested to inform the
chief of the great delight I felt in seeing them. After a short period expended in interchanging
compliments, and a competitive excellence at laughing at one another, their chief desired me
to show him my guns.  The "sixteen-shooter," the Winchester rifle, elicited a thousand flattering
observations from the excited man; and the tiny deadly revolvers, whose beauty and workmanship
they thought were superhuman, evoked such gratified eloquence that I was fain to try something
else. The double-barrelled guns fired with heavy charges of power, caused them to jump up in
affected alarm, and then to subside into their seats convulsed with laughter.  As the enthusiasm
of my guests increased, they seized each other's index fingers, screwed them, and pulled at
them until I feared they would end in their dislocation.  After having explained to them the
difference between white men and Arabs, I pulled out my medicine chest, which evoked another
burst of rapturous sighs at the cunning neatness of the array of vials.  He asked what they meant.

"Dowa," I replied sententiously, a word which may be interpreted--medicine.

"Oh-h, oh-h," they murmured admiringly.  I succeeded, before long, in winning unqualified admiration,
and my superiority, compared to the best of the Arabs they had seen, was but too evident. 
"Dowa, dowa," they added.

"Here," said I, uncorking a vial of medicinal brandy, "is the Kisungu pombe " (white man's
beer); "take a spoonful and try it," at the same time handing it.

"Hacht, hacht, oh, hacht,! what! eh! what strong beer the white men have!  Oh, how my throat
burns!"

"Ah, but it is good," said I, "a little of it makes men feel strong, and good; but too much
of it makes men bad, and they die."

"Let me have some," said one of the chiefs; "and me," " and me," "and me," as soon as each
had tasted.

"I next produced a bottle of concentrated ammonia, which as I explained was for snake bites,
and head-aches; the Sultan immediately complained he had a head-ache, and must have a little.
Telling him to close his eyes, I suddenly uncorked the bottle, and presented it to His Majesty's
nose.  The effect was magical, for he fell back as if shot, and such contortions as his features
underwent are indescribable.  His chiefs roared with laughter, and clapped their hands, pinched
each other, snapped their fingers, and committed many other ludicrous things.  I verily believe
if such a scene were presented on any stage in the world the effect of it would be visible
instantaneously on the audience; that had they seen it as I saw it, they would have laughed
themselves to hysteria and madness.  Finally the Sultan recovered himself, great tears rolling
down his cheeks, and his features quivering with laughter, then he slowly uttered the word
"kali,"--hot, strong, quick, or ardent medicine.  He required no more, but the other chiefs
pushed forward to get one wee sniff, which they no sooner had, than all went into paroxysms
of uncontrollable laughter. The entire morning was passed in this state visit, to the mutual
satisfaction of all concerned.  "Oh," said the Sultan at parting, "these white men know everything,
the Arabs are dirt compared to them!"

That night Hamdallah, one of the guides, deserted, carrying with him his hire (27 doti), and
a gun.  It was useless to follow him in the morning, as it would have detained me many more
days than I could afford; but I mentally vowed that Mr. Hamdallah should work out those 27
doti of cloths before I reached the coast.

Wednesday, October 4th, saw us travelling to the Gombe River, which is 4 h. 15 m.  march from
Manyara.

We had barely left the waving cornfields of my friend Ma-manyara before we came in sight of
a herd of noble zebra; two hours afterwards we had entered a grand and noble expanse of park
land, whose glorious magnificence and vastness of prospect, with a far-stretching carpet of
verdure darkly flecked here and there by miniature clumps of jungle, with spreading trees growing
here and there, was certainly one of the finest scenes to be seen in Africa.  Added to which,
as I surmounted one of the numerous small knolls, I saw herds after herds of buffalo and zebra,
giraffe and antelope, which sent the blood coursing through my veins in the excitement of the
moment, as when I first landed on African soil.  We crept along the plain noiselessly to our
camp on the banks of the sluggish waters of the Gombe. '

Here at last was the hunter's Paradise!  How petty and insignificant appeared my hunts after
small antelope and wild boar what a foolish waste of energies those long walks through damp
grasses and through thorny jungles!  Did I not well remember ' my first bitter experience in
African jungles when in the maritime region!   But this--where is the nobleman's park that
can match this scene?  Here is a soft, velvety expanse of young grass, grateful shade under
those spreading clumps; herds of large and varied game browsing within easy rifle range.  Surely
I must feel amply compensated now for the long southern detour I have made, when such a prospect
as this opens to the view!  No thorny jungles and rank smelling swamps are here to daunt the
hunter, and to sicken his aspirations after true sport!  No hunter could aspire after a nobler
field to display his prowess.

Having settled the position of the camp, which overlooked one of the pools found in the depression
of the Gombe creek, I took my double-barrelled smooth-bore, and sauntered off to the park-land.
Emerging from behind a clump, three fine plump spring-bok were seen browsing on the young grass
just within one hundred yards. I knelt down and fired; one unfortunate antelope bounded upward
instinctively, and fell dead.  Its companions sprang high into the air, taking leaps about
twelve feet in length, as if they were quadrupeds practising gymnastics, and away they vanished,
rising up like India-rubber balls; until a knoll hid them from view.  My success was hailed
with loud shouts by the soldiers; who came running out from the camp as soon as they heard
the reverberation of the gun, and my gun-bearer had his knife at the beast's throat, uttering
a fervent "Bismillah!" as he almost severed the head from the body.

Hunters were now directed to proceed east and north to procure meat, because in each caravan
it generally happens that there are fundi, whose special trade it is to hunt for meat for the
camp. Some of these are experts in stalking, but often find themselves in dangerous positions,
owing to the near approach necessary, before they can fire their most inaccurate weapons with
any certainty.

After luncheon, consisting of spring-bok steak, hot corn-cake, and a cup of delicious Mocha
coffee, I strolled towards the south-west, accompanied by Kalulu and Majwara, two boy gun-bearers.
The tiny perpusilla started up like rabbits from me as I stole along through the underbrush;
the honey-bird hopped from tree to tree chirping its call, as if it thought I was seeking the
little sweet treasure, the hiding-place of which it only knew; but no! I neither desired perpusilla
nor the honey.  I was on the search for something great this day.  Keen-eyed fish-eagles and
bustards poised on trees above the sinuous Gombe thought, and probably with good reason that
I was after them; judging by the ready flight with which both species disappeared as they sighted
my approach.  Ah, no! nothing but hartebeest, zebra, giraffe, eland, and buffalo this day!
After following the Gombe's course for about a mile, delighting my eyes with long looks at
the broad and lengthy reaches of water to which I was so long a stranger, I came upon a scene
which delighted the innermost recesses of my soul; five, six, seven, eight, ten zebras switching
their beautiful striped bodies, and biting one another, within about one hundred and fifty
yards.  The scene was so pretty, so romantic, never did I so thoroughly realize that I was
in Central Africa.  I felt momentarily proud that I owned such a vast domain, inhabited with
such noble beasts.  Here I possessed, within reach of a leaden ball, any one I chose of the
beautiful animals, the pride of the African forests!  It was at my option to shoot any of them!
Mine they were without money or without price; yet, knowing this, twice I dropped my rifle,
loth to wound the royal beasts, but--crack!  and a royal one was on his back battling the air
with his legs.  Ah, it was such a pity! but, hasten, draw the keen sharp-edged knife across
the beautiful stripes which fold around the throat; and--what an ugly gash! it is done, and
1 have a superb animal at my feet.  Hurrah! I shall taste of Ukonongo zebra to-night.

I thought a spring-bok and zebra enough for one day's sport, especially after a long march.
The Gombe, a long stretch of deep water, winding in and out of green groves, calm, placid,
with lotus leaves lightly resting on its: surface, all pretty, picturesque, peaceful as a summer's
dream, looked very inviting for a bath.  I sought out the most shady spot under a wide- spreading
mimosa, from which the ground sloped smooth as a lawn, to the still, clear water. Great heavens,
it was a crocodile!  I sprang backward instinctively, and this proved my salvation, for the
monster turned away with the most disappointed look, and I was left to congratulate myself
upon my narrow escape from his jaws, and to register a vow never to be tempted again by the
treacherous calm of an African river.

As soon as I had dressed I turned away from the now repulsive aspect of the stream.  In strolling
through the jungle, towards my camp, I detected the forms of two natives looking sharply about
them, and, after bidding my young attendants to preserve perfect quiet, I crept on towards
them, and, by the aid of a thick clump of underbush, managed to arrive within a few feet of
the natives undetected.  Their mere presence in the immense forest, unexplained, was a cause
of uneasiness in the then disturbed state of the country, and my intention was to show myself
suddenly to them, and note its effect, which, if it betokened anything hostile to the Expedition,
could without difficulty be settled at once, with the aid of my double-barrelled smooth-bore.

As I arrived on one side of this bush, the two suspicious-looking natives arrived on the other
side, and we were separated by only a few feet.  I made a bound, and we were face to face.
The natives cast a glance at the sudden figure of a white man, and seemed petrified for a moment,
but then, recovering themselves, they shrieked out, "Bana, bana, you don't know us.  We are
Wakonongo, who came to your camp to accompany you to Mrera, and we are looking for honey."

"Oh, to be sure, you are the Wakonongo.  Yes--Yes.  Ah, it is all right now, I thought you
might be Ruga-Ruga."

So the two parties, instead of being on hostile terms with each other, burst out laughing.
The Wakonongo enjoyed it very much, and laughed heartily as they proceeded on their way to
search for the wild honey.  On a piece of bark they carried a little fire with which they smoked
the bees out from their nest in the great mtundu-trees.

The adventures of the day were over; the azure of the sky had changed to a dead grey; the moon
was appearing just over the trees; the water of the Gombe was like a silver belt; hoarse frogs
bellowed their notes loudly by the margin of the creek; the fish-eagles uttered their dirge-like
cries as they were perched high on the tallest tree; elands snorted their warning to the herds
in the forest; stealthy forms of the carnivora stole through the dark woods outside of our
camp.  Within the high inclosure of bush and thorn, which we had raised around our camp, all
was jollity, laughter, and radiant, genial comfort.  Around every camp-fire dark forms of men
were seen squatted: one man gnawed at a luscious bone; another sucked the rich marrow in a
zebra's leg-bone; another turned the stick, garnished with huge kabobs, to the bright blaze;
another held a large rib over a flame; there were others busy stirring industriously great
black potfuls of ugali, and watching anxiously the meat simmering, and the soup bubbling, while
the fire-light flickered and danced bravely, and cast a bright glow over the naked forms of
the men, and gave a crimson tinge to the tall tent that rose in the centre of the camp, like
a temple sacred to some mysterious god; the fires cast their reflections upon the massive arms
of the trees, as they branched over our camp, and, in the dark gloom of their foliage, the
most fantastic shadows were visible.  Altogether it was a wild, romantic, and impressive scene.
But little recked my men for shadows and moonlight, for crimson tints, and temple- like tents--they
were all busy relating their various experiences, and gorging themselves with the rich meats
our guns had obtained for us.  One was telling how he had stalked a wild boar, and the furious
onset the wounded animal made on him, causing him to drop his gun, and climb a tree, and the
terrible grunt of the beast he well remembered, and the whole welkin rang with the peals of
laughter which his mimic powers evoked.  Another had shot a buffalo-calf, and another had bagged
a hartebeest; the Wakonongo related their laughable rencontre with me in the woods, and were
lavish in their description of the stores of honey to be found in the woods; and all this time
Selim and his youthful subs were trying their sharp teeth on the meat of a young pig which
one of the hunters had shot, but which nobody else would eat, because of the Mohammedan aversion
to pig, which they had acquired during their transformation from negro savagery to the useful
docility of the Zanzibar freed-man.

We halted the two following days, and made frequent raids on the herds of this fine country.
The first day I was fairly successful again in the sport.  I bagged a couple of antelopes,
a kudu (A. strepsiceros) with fine twisting horns, and a pallah-buck (A. melampus), a reddish-brown
animal, standing about three and a half feet, with broad posteriors.  I might have succeeded
in getting dozens of animals had I any of those accurate, heavy rifles manufactured by Lancaster,
Reilly, or Blissett, whose every shot tells.  But my weapons, save my light smoothbore, were
unfit for African game.  My weapons were more for men.  With the Winchester rifle, and the
Starr's carbine, I was able to hit anything within two hundred yards, but the animals, though
wounded, invariably managed to escape the knife, until I was disgusted with the pea- bullets.
What is wanted for this country is a heavy bore--No. 10 or 12 is the real bone-crusher--that
will drop every animal shot in its tracks, by which all fatigue and disappointment are avoided.
Several times during these two days was I disappointed after most laborious stalking and creeping
along the ground.  Once I came suddenly upon an eland while I had a Winchester rifle in my
hand-- the eland and myself mutually astonished--at not more than twenty-five yards apart.
I fired at its chest, and bullet, true to its aim, sped far into the internal parts, and the
blood spouted from the wound: in a few minutes he was far away, and I was too much disappointed
to follow him.  All love of the chase seemed to be dying away before these several mishaps.
What were two antelopes for one day's sport to the thousands that browsed over the plain?

The animals taken to camp during our three days' sport were two buffaloes, two wild boar, three
hartebeest, one zebra, and one pallah; besides which, were shot eight guinea-fowls, three florican,
two fish-eagles, one pelican, and one of the men caught a couple of large silurus fish.  In
the meantime the people had cut, sliced, and dried this bounteous store of meat for our transit
through the long wilderness before us.

Saturday the 7th day of October, we broke up camp, to the great regret of the meat-loving,
gormandizing Wangwana.  They delegated Bombay early in the morning to speak to me, and entreat
of me to stop one day longer.  It was ever the case; they had always an unconquerable aversion
to work, when in presence of meat.  Bombay was well scolded for bearing any such request to
me after two days' rest, during which time they had been filled to repletion with meat.  And
Bombay was by no means in the best of humour; flesh-pots full of meat were more to his taste
than a constant tramping, and its consequent fatigues.  I saw his face settle into sulky ugliness,
and his great nether lip hanging down limp, which meant as if expressed in so many words, "Well,
get them to move yourself, you wicked hard man!  I shall not help you."

An ominous silence followed my order to the kirangozi to sound the horn, and the usual singing
and chanting were not heard.  The men turned sullenly to their bales, and Asmani, the gigantic
guide, our fundi, was heard grumblingly to say he was sorry he had engaged to guide me to the
Tanganika.  However, they started, though reluctantly.  I stayed behind with my gunbearers,
to drive the stragglers on.  In about half an hour I sighted the caravan at a dead stop, with
the bales thrown on the ground, and the men standing in groups conversing angrily and excitedly.

Taking my double-barrelled gun from Selim's shoulder, I selected a dozen charges of buck-shot,
and slipping two of them into the barrels, and adjusting my revolvers in order for handy work,
I walked on towards them.  I noticed that the men seized their guns, as I advanced.  When within
thirty yards of the groups, I discovered the heads of two men appear above an anthill on my
left, with the barrels of their guns carelessly pointed toward the road.

I halted, threw the barrel of my gun into the hollow of the left hand, and then, taking a deliberate
aim at them, threatened to blow their heads off if they did not come forward to talk to me.
These two men were, gigantic Asmani and his sworn companion Mabruki, the guides of Sheikh bin
Nasib.  As it was dangerous not to comply with such an order, they presently came, but, keeping
my eye on Asmani, I saw him move his fingers to the trigger of his gun, and bring his gun to
a "ready."  Again I lifted my gun, and threatened him with instant death, if he did not drop
his gun.

Asmani came on in a sidelong way with a smirking smile on his face, but in his eyes shone the
lurid light of murder, as plainly as ever it shone in a villain's eyes.  Mabruki sneaked to
my rear, deliberately putting powder in the pan of his musket, but sweeping the gun sharply
round, I planted the muzzle of it at about two feet from his wicked-looking face, and ordered
him to drop his gun instantly.  He let it fall from his hand quickly, and giving him a vigorous
poke in the breast with my gun, which sent him reeling away a few feet from me, I faced round
to Asmani, and ordered him to put his gun down, accompanying it with a nervous movement of
my gun, pressing gently on the trigger at the same time.  Never was a man nearer his death
than was Asmani during those few moments.  I was reluctant to shed his blood, and I was willing
to try all possible means to avoid doing so; but if I did not succeed in cowing this ruffian,
authority was at an end.  The truth was, they feared to proceed further on the road, and the
only possible way of inducing them to move was by an overpowering force, and exercise of my
power and will in this instance, even though he might pay the penalty of his disobedience with
death.  As I was beginning to feel that Asmani had passed his last moment on earth, as he was
lifting his gun to his shoulder, a form came up from behind him, and swept his gun aside with
an impatient, nervous movement, and I heard Mabruki Burton say in horror-struck accents:

"Man, how dare you point your gun, at the master?"  Mabruki then threw himself at my feet,
and endeavoured to kiss them and entreated me not to punish him.  "It was all over now," he
said; "there would be no more quarreling, they would all go as far as the Tanganika, without
any more noise; and Inshallah!" said he, "we shall find the old Musungu * at Ujiji."

*Livingstone

"Speak, men, freedmen, shall we not?--shall we not go to the Tanganika without any more trouble?
tell the master with one voice."

"Ay Wallah!  Ay Wallah!  Bana yango!  Hamuna manneno mgini!" which literally translated means,
"Yes by God!  Yes by God! my master!  There are no other words," said each man loudly.

"Ask the master's pardon, man, or go thy way," said Mabruki peremptorily, to Asmani: which
Asmani did, to the gratification of us all.

It remained for me only to extend a general pardon to all except to Bombay and Ambari, the
instigators of the mutiny, which was now happily quelled.  For Bombay could have by a word,
as my captain, nipped all manifestation of bad temper at the outset, had he been so disposed.
But no, Bombay was more averse to marching than the cowardliest of his fellows, not because
he was cowardly, but because he loved indolence.

Again the word was given to march, and each man, with astonishing alacrity, seized his load,
and filed off quickly out of sight.

While on this subject, I may as well give here a sketch of each of the principal men whose
names must often appear in the following chapters.  According to rank, they consist of Bombay,
Mabruki Burton, Asmani the guide, Chowpereh, Ulimengo, Khamisi, Ambari, Jumah, Ferajji the
cook, Maganga the Mnyamwezi, Selim the Arab boy, and youthful Kalulu a gunbearer.

Bombay has received an excellent character from Burton and Speke. "Incarnation of honesty"
Burton grandly terms him.  The truth is, Bombay was neither very honest nor very dishonest,
i.e., he did not venture to steal much.  He sometimes contrived cunningly, as he distributed
the meat, to hide a very large share for his own use. This peccadillo of his did not disturb
me much; he deserved as captain a larger share than the others.  He required to be closely
watched, and when aware that this was the case, he seldom ventured to appropriate more cloth
than I would have freely given him, had he asked for it.  As a personal servant, or valet,
he would have been unexceptionable, but as a captain or jemadar over his fellows, he was out
of his proper sphere.  It was too much brain-work, and was too productive of anxiety to keep
him in order.  At times he was helplessly imbecile in his movements, forgot every order the
moment it was given him, consistently broke or lost some valuable article, was fond of argument,
and addicted to bluster.  He thinks Hajji Abdullah one of the wickedest white men born, because
he saw him pick up men's skulls and put them in sacks, as if he was about to prepare a horrible
medicine with them.  He wanted to know whether his former master had written down all he himself
did, and when told that Burton had not said anything, in his books upon the Lake Regions, upon
collecting skulls at Kilwa, thought I would be doing a good work if I published this important
fact.* Bombay intends to make a pilgrimage to visit Speke's grave some day.

*I find upon returning to England, that Capt. Burton has informed the world of this "wicked
and abominable deed," in his book upon Zanzibar, and that the interesting collection may be
seen at the Royal College of Surgeons, London.

Mabruki, "Ras-bukra Mabruki," Bull-headed Mabruki, as Burton calls him, is a sadly abused man
in my opinion.  Mabruki, though stupid, is faithful.  He is entirely out of his element as
valet, he might as well be clerk.  As a watchman he is invaluable, as a second captain or fundi,
whose duty it is to bring up stragglers, he is superexcellent.  He is ugly and vain, but he
is no coward.

Asmani the guide is a large fellow, standing over six feet, with the neck and shoulders of
a Hercules.  Besides being guide, he is a fundi, sometimes called Fundi Asmani, or hunter.
A very superstitious man, who takes great care of his gun, and talismanic plaited cord, which
he has dipped in the blood of all the animals he has ever shot.  He is afraid of lions, and
will never venture out where lions are known to be.  All other animals he regards as game,
and is indefatigable in their pursuit.  He is seldom seen without an apologetic or a treacherous
smile on his face.  He could draw a knife across a man's throat and still smile.

Chowpereh is a sturdy short man of thirty or thereabouts; very good-natured, and humorous.
When Chowpereh speaks in his dry Mark Twain style, the whole camp laughs.  I never quarrel
with Chowpereh, never did quarrel with him.  A kind word given to Chowpereh is sure to be reciprocated
with a good deed.  He is the strongest, the healthiest, the amiablest, the faithfulest of all.
He is the embodiment of a good follower.

Khamisi is a neat, cleanly boy of twenty, or thereabouts, active, loud-voiced, a boaster, and
the cowardliest of the cowardly.  He will steal at every opportunity.  He clings to his gun
most affectionately; is always excessively anxious if a screw gets loose, or if a flint will
not strike fire, yet I doubt that he would be able to fire his gun at an enemy from excessive
trembling.  Khamisi would rather trust his safety to his feet, which are small, and well shaped.

Ambari is a man of about forty.  He is one of the "Faithfuls" of Speke, and one of my Faithfuls.
He would not run away from me except when in the presence of an enemy, and imminent personal
danger.  He is clever in his way, but is not sufficiently clever to enact the part of captain--could
take charge of a small party, and give a very good account of them.  Is lazy, and an admirer
of good living--abhors marching, unless he has nothing to carry but his gun.

Jumah is the best abused man of the party, because he has old-womanish ways with him, yet in
his old-womanish ways he is disposed to do the best he can for me, though he will not carry
a pound in weight without groaning terribly at his hard fate.  To me he is sentimental and
pathetic; to the unimportant members of the caravan he is stern and uncompromising.  But the
truth is, that I could well dispense with Jumah's presence: he was one of the incorrigible
inutiles, eating far more than he was worth; besides being an excessively grumbling and querulous
fool.

Ulimengo, a strong stalwart fellow of thirty, was the maddest and most hare-brained of my party.
Though an arrant coward, he was a consummate boaster.  But though a devotee of pleasure and
fun, he was not averse from work.  With one hundred men such as he, I could travel through
Africa provided there was no fighting to do.  It will be remembered that he was the martial
coryphaeus who led my little army to war against Mirambo, chanting the battle-song of the Wangwana;
and that I stated, that when the retreat was determined upon, he was the first of my party
to reach the stronghold of Mfuto. He is a swift runner, and a fair hunter.  I have been indebted
to him on several occasions for a welcome addition to my larder.

Ferajji, a former dish-washer to Speke, was my cook.  He was promoted to this office upon the
defection of Bunder Salaam, and the extreme non-fitness of Abdul Kader.  For cleaning dishes,
the first corn-cob, green twig, a bunch of leaves or grass, answered Ferajji's purposes in
the absence of a cloth.  If I ordered a plate, and I pointed out a black, greasy, sooty thumbmark
to him, a rub of a finger Ferajji thought sufficient to remove all objections.  If I hinted
that a spoon was rather dirty, Ferajji fancied that with a little saliva, and a rub of his
loin cloth, the most fastidious ought to be satisfied.  Every pound of meat, and every three
spoonfuls of musk or porridge I ate in Africa, contained at least ten grains of sand.  Ferajji
was considerably exercised at a threat I made to him that on arrival at Zanzibar, I would get
the great English doctor there to open my stomach, and count every grain of sand found in it,
for each grain of which Ferajji should be charged one dollar.  The consciousness that my stomach
must contain a large number, for which the forfeits would be heavy, made him feel very sad
at times.  Otherwise, Ferajji was a good cook, most industrious, if not accomplished.  He could
produce a cup of tea, and three or four hot pancakes, within ten minutes after a halt was ordered,
for which I was most grateful, as I was almost always hungry after a long march.  Ferajji sided
with Baraka against Bombay in Unyoro, and when Speke took Bombay's side of the question, Ferajji,
out of love for Baraka, left Speke's service, and so forfeited his pay.

Maganga was a Mnyamwezi, a native of Mkwenkwe, a strong, faithful servant, an excellent pagazi,
with an irreproachable temper.  He it was who at all times, on the march, started the wildly
exuberant song of the Wanyamwezi porters, which, no matter how hot the sun, or how long the
march, was sure to produce gaiety and animation among the people.  At such times all hands
sang, sang with voices that could be heard miles away, which made the great forests ring with
the sounds, which startled every animal big or little, for miles around.  On approaching a
village the temper of whose people might be hostile to us, Maganga would commence his song,
with the entire party joining in the chorus, by which mode we knew whether the natives were
disposed to be friendly or hostile.  If hostile, or timid, the gates would at once be closed,
and dark faces would scowl at us from the interior; if friendly, they rushed outside of their
gates to welcome us, or to exchange friendly remarks.

An important member of the Expedition was Selim, the young Arab. Without some one who spoke
good Arabic, I could not have obtained the friendship of the chief Arabs in Unyanyembe; neither
could I have well communicated with them, for though I understood Arabic, I could not speak it.

I have already related how Kalulu came to be in my service, and how he came to bear his present
name.  I soon found how apt and quick he was to learn, in consequence of which, he was promoted
to the rank of personal attendant.  Even Selim could not vie with Kalulu in promptness and
celerity, or in guessing my wants at the table.  His little black eyes were constantly roving
over the dishes, studying out the problem of what was further necessary, or had become unnecessary.

We arrived at the Ziwani, in about 4 h. 30 m. from the time of our quitting the scene which
had well-nigh witnessed a sanguinary conflict.  The Ziwani, or pool, contained no water, not
a drop, until the parched tongues of my people warned them that they must proceed and excavate
for water.  This excavation was performed (by means of strong hard sticks sharply pointed)
in the dry hard-caked bottom.  After digging to a depth of six feet their labours were rewarded
with the sight of a few drops of muddy liquid percolating through the sides, which were eagerly
swallowed to relieve their raging thirst.  Some voluntarily started with buckets, gourds, and
canteens south to a deserted clearing called the "Tongoni" in Ukamba, and in about three hours
returned with a plentiful supply for immediate use, of good and clear water.

In 1 h. 30 m. we arrived at this Tongoni, or deserted clearing of the Wakamba.  Here were three
or four villages burnt, and an extensive clearing desolate, the work of the Wa-Ruga-Raga of
Mirambo. Those of the inhabitants who were left, after the spoliation and complete destruction
of the flourishing settlement, emigrated westerly to Ugara.  A large herd of buffalo now slake
their thirst at the pool which supplied the villages of Ukamba with water.

Great masses of iron haematite cropped up above the surfaces in these forests.  Wild fruit
began to be abundant; the wood-apple and tamarind and a small plum-like fruit, furnished us
with many an agreeable repast.

The honey-bird is very frequent in these forests of Ukonongo. Its cry is a loud, quick chirrup.
The Wakonongo understand how to avail themselves of its guidance to the sweet treasure of honey
which the wild bees have stored in the cleft of some great tree. Daily, the Wakonongo who had
joined our caravan brought me immense cakes of honey-comb, containing delicious white and red
honey. The red honey-comb generally contains large numbers of dead bees, but our exceedingly
gluttonous people thought little of these. They not only ate the honey-bees, but they also
ate a good deal of the wax.

As soon as the honey-bird descries the traveller, he immediately utters a series of wild, excited
cries, hops about from twig to twig, and from branch to branch, then hops to another tree,
incessantly repeating his chirruping call.  The native, understanding the nature of the little
bird, unhesitatingly follows him; but perhaps his steps are too slow for the impatient caller,
upon which he flies back, urging him louder, more impatient cries, to hasten, and then darts
swiftly forward, as if he would show how quickly he could go to the honey-store, until at last
the treasure is reached, the native has applied fire to the bees' nest, and secured the honey,
while the little bird preens himself, and chirrups in triumphant notes, as if he were informing
the biped that without his aid he never could have found the honey.

Buffalo gnats and tsetse were very troublesome on this march, owing to the numerous herds of
game in the vicinity.

On the 9th of October we made a long march in a southerly direction, and formed our camp in
the centre of a splendid grove of trees. The water was very scarce on the road.  The Wamrima
and Wanyamwezi are not long able to withstand thirst.  When water is plentiful they slake their
thirst at every stream and pool; when it is scarce, as it is here and in the deserts of Marenga
and Magunda Mkali, long afternoon-marches are made; the men previously, however, filling their
gourds, so as to enable them to reach the water early next morning.  Selim was never able to
endure thirst.  It mattered not how much of the precious liquid he carried, he generally drank
it all before reaching camp, and he consequently suffered during the night.  Besides this,
he endangered his life by quaffing from every muddy pool; and on this day he began to complain
that he discharged blood, which I took to be an incipient stage of dysentery.

During these marches, ever since quitting Ugunda, a favourite topic at the camp-fires were
the Wa-Ruga-Ruga, and their atrocities, and a possible encounter that we might have with these
bold rovers of the forest.  I verily believe that a sudden onset of half a dozen of Mirambo's
people would have set the whole caravan arunning.

We reached Marefu the next day, after a short three hours' march. We there found an embassy
sent by the Arabs of Unyanyembe, to the Southern Watuta, bearing presents of several bales,
in charge of Hassan the Mseguhha.  This valiant leader and diplomatist had halted here some
ten days because of wars and rumours of wars in his front. It was said that Mbogo, Sultan of
Mboga in Ukonongo, was at war with the brother of Manwa Sera, and as Mbogo was a large district
of Ukonongo only two days' march from Marefu; fear of being involved in it was deterring old
Hassan from proceeding.  He advised me also not to proceed, as it was impossible to be able
to do so without being embroiled in the conflict.  I informed him that I intended to proceed
on my way, and take my chances, and graciously offered him my escort as far as the frontier
of Ufipa, from which he could easily and safely continue on his way to the Watuta, but he declined
it.

We had now been travelling fourteen days in a south-westerly direction, having made a little
more than one degree of latitude. I had intended to have gone a little further south, because
it was such a good road, also since by going further south we should have labored under no
fear of meeting Mirambo; but the report of this war in our front, only two days off, compelled
me, in the interest of the Expedition, to strike across towards the Tanganika, an a west-by-north
course through the forest, travelling, when it was advantageous, along elephant tracks and
local paths.  This new plan was adopted after consulting with Asmani, the guide.  We were now
in Ukonongo, having entered this district when we crossed the Gombe creek.  The next day after
arriving at Marefu we plunged westward, in view of the villagers, and the Arab ambassador,
who kept repeating until the last moment that we should "certainly catch it."

We marched eight hours through a forest, where the forest peach, or the "mbembu," is abundant.
The tree that bears this fruit is very like a pear-tree, and is very productive.  I saw one
tree, upon which I estimated there were at least six or seven bushels. I ate numbers of the
peaches on this day.  So long as this fruit can be produced, a traveller in these regions need
not fear starvation.

At the base of a graceful hilly cone we found a village called Utende, the inhabitants of which
were in a state of great alarm, as we suddenly appeared on the ridge above them.  Diplomacy
urged me to send forward a present of one doti to the Sultan, who, however, would not accept
it, because he happened to be drunk with pombe, and was therefore disposed to be insolent.
Upon being informed that he would refuse any present, unless he received four more cloths,
I immediately ordered a strong boma to be constructed on the summits of a little hill, near
enough to a plentiful supply of water, and quietly again packed up the present in the bale.
I occupied a strategically chosen position, as I could have swept the face of the hill, and
the entire space between its base and the village of Watende.  Watchmen were kept on the look-out
all night; but we were fortunately not troubled until the morning; when a delegation of the
principal men came to ask if I intended to depart without having made a present to the chief.
I replied to them that I did not intend passing through any country without making friends
with the chief; and if their chief would accept a good cloth from me, I would freely give it
to him.  Though they demurred at the amount of the present at first, the difference between
us was finally ended by my adding a fundo of red beads-- sami-sami--for the chief's wife.

From the hill and ridge of Utende sloped a forest for miles and miles westerly, which was terminated
by a grand and smooth-topped ridge rising 500 or 600 feet above the plain.

A four hours' march, on the 12th of October, brought us to a nullah similar to the Gombe, which,
during the wet season, flows to the Gombe River, and thence into the Malagarazi River.

A little before camping we saw a herd of nimba, or pallah; I had the good fortune to shoot
one, which was a welcome addition to our fast diminishing store of dried meats, prepared in
our camp on the Gombe.  By the quantity of bois de vaches, we judged buffaloes were plentiful
here, as well as elephant and rhinoceros.  The feathered species were well represented by ibis,
fish-eagles, pelicans, storks, cranes, several snowy spoon-bills, and flamingoes.

From the nullah, or mtoni, we proceeded to Mwaru, the principal village of the district of
Mwaru, the chief of which is Ka-mirambo. Our march lay over desolated clearings once occupied
by Ka-mirambo's people, but who were driven away by Mkasiwa some ten years ago, during his
warfare against Manwa Sera.  Niongo, the brother of the latter, now waging war against Mbogo,
had passed through Mwaru the day before we arrived, after being defeated by his enemy.

The hilly ridge that bounded the westward horizon, visible from Utende, was surmounted on this
day.  The western slope trends south-west, and is drained by the River Mrera, which empties
into the Malagarazi River.  We perceived the influence of the Tanganika, even here, though
we were yet twelve or fifteen marches from the lake.  The jungles increased in density, and
the grasses became enormously tall; these points reminded us of the maritime districts of Ukwere
and Ukami.

We heard from a caravan at this place, just come from Ufipa, that a white man was reported
to be in "Urua," whom I supposed to mean Livingstone.

Upon leaving Mwaru we entered the district of Mrera, a chief who once possessed great power
and influence over this region.  Wars, however, have limited his possessions to three or four
villages snugly embosomed within a jungle, whose outer rim is so dense that it serves like
a stone wall to repel invaders.  There were nine bleached skulls, stuck on the top of as many
poles, before the principal gate of entrance, which told us of existing feuds between the Wakonongo
and the Wazavira.  This latter tribe dwelt in a country a few marches west of us; whose territory
we should have to avoid, unless we sought another opportunity to distinguish ourselves in battle
with the natives.  The Wazavira, we were told by the Wakonongo of Mrera, were enemies to all
Wangwana.

In a narrow strip of marsh between Mwaru and Mrera, we saw a small herd of wild elephants.
It was the first time I had ever seen these animals in their native wildness, and my first
impressions of them I shall not readily forget.  I am induced to think that the elephant deserves
the title of "king of beasts."  His huge form, the lordly way in which he stares at an intruder
on his domain, and his whole appearance indicative of conscious might, afford good grounds
for his claim to that title.  This herd, as we passed it at the distance of a mile, stopped
to survey the caravan as it passed: and, after having satisfied their curiosity, the elephants
trooped into the forest which bounded the marshy plain southward, as if caravans were every-day
things to them, whilst they--the free and unconquerable lords of the forest and the marsh--had
nothing in common with the cowardly bipeds, who never found courage to face them in fair combat.
The destruction which a herd makes in a forest is simply tremendous.  When the trees are young
whole swathes may be found uprooted and prostrate, which mark the track of the elephants as
they "trampled their path through wood and brake."

The boy Selim was so ill at this place that I was compelled to halt the caravan for him for
two days.  He seemed to be affected with a disease in the limbs, which caused him to sprawl,
and tremble most painfully, besides suffering from an attack of acute dysentery.  But constant
attendance and care soon brought him round again; and on the third day he was able to endure
the fatigue of riding.

I was able to shoot several animals during our stay at Mrera.  The forest outside of the cultivation
teems with noble animals.  Zebra, giraffe, elephant, and rhinoceros are most common; ptarmigan
and guinea-fowl were also plentiful.

The warriors of Mrera are almost all armed with muskets, of which they take great care.  They
were very importunate in their demands for flints, bullets, and powder, which I always made
it a point to refuse, lest at any moment a fracas occurring they might use the ammunition thus
supplied to my own disadvantage.  The men of this village were an idle set, doing little but
hunting, gaping, gossiping, and playing like great boys.  During the interval of my stay at
Mrera I employed a large portion of my time in mending my shoes, and patching up the great
rents in my clothes, which the thorn species, during the late marches, had almost destroyed.
Westward, beyond Mrera, was a wilderness, the transit of which we were warned would occupy
nine days hence arose the necessity to purchase a large supply of grain, which, ere attempting
the great uninhabited void in our front, was to be ground and sifted.

CHAPTER XI.  THROUGH UKAWENDI, UVINZA, AND UHHA, TO UJIJI.

Happy auspices,--Ant-hills.--The water-shed of the Tanganika Lion. --The king of Kasera.--The
home of the lion and the leopard.-- A donkey frightens a leopard--Sublime scenes in Kawendi,--Starvation
imminent.--Amenities of travel in Africa.--Black-mailers.--The stormy children of Uhha.--News
of a white man.--Energetic marches--Mionvu, chief of tribute-takers.--An escape at midnight.--Toiling
through the jungles.--The Lake Mountains.-- First view of the Tanganika.--Arrival at Ujiji,--The
happy meeting with Livingstone.

We bade farewell to Mrera on the 17th of October, to continue our route north-westward.  All
the men and I were firm friends now; all squabbling had long ceased.  Bombay and I had forgotten
our quarrel; the kirangozi and myself were ready to embrace, so loving and affectionate were
the terms upon which we stood towards one another.  Confidence returned to all hearts--for
now, as Mabruk Unyanyembe said, "we could smell the fish of the Tanganika." Unyanyembe, with
all its disquietude, was far behind.  We could snap our fingers at that terrible Mirambo and
his unscrupulous followers, and by-and-by, perhaps, we may be able to laugh at the timid seer
who always prophesied portentous events--Sheikh, the son of Nasib.  We laughed joyously, as
we glided in Indian file through the young forest jungle beyond the clearing of Mrera, and
boasted of our prowess.  Oh! we were truly brave that morning!

Emerging from the jungle, we entered a thin forest, where numerous ant-hills were seen like
so many sand-dunes.  I imagine that these ant-hills were formed during a remarkably wet season,
when, possibly, the forest-clad plain was inundated.  I have seen the ants at work by thousands,
engaged in the work of erecting their hills in other districts suffering from inundation. 
What a wonderful system of cells these tiny insects construct!  A perfect labyrinth--cell within
cell, room within room, hall within hall--an exhibition of engineering talents and high architectural
capacity--a model city, cunningly contrived for safety and comfort!

Emerging after a short hour's march out of the forest, we welcome the sight of a murmuring
translucent stream, swiftly flowing towards the north-west, which we regard with the pleasure
which only men who have for a long time sickened themselves with that potable liquid of the
foulest kind, found in salinas, mbugas, pools, and puddle holes, can realize.  Beyond this
stream rises a rugged and steep ridge, from the summit of which our eyes are gladdened with
scenes that are romantic, animated and picturesque. They form an unusual feast to eyes sated
with looking into the depths of forests, at towering stems of trees, and at tufted crowns of
foliage.  We have now before us scores of cones, dotting the surface of a plain which extends
across Southern Ukonongo to the territory of the Wafipa, and which reaches as far as the Rikwa
Plain. The immense prospect before which we are suddenly ushered is most varied; exclusive
of conical hills and ambitious flat-topped and isolated mountains, we are in view of the watersheds
of the Rungwa River, which empties into the Tanganika south of where we stand, and of the Malagarazi
River, which the Tanganika receives, a degree or so north of this position.  A single but lengthy
latitudinal ridge serves as a dividing line to the watershed of the Rungwa and Malagarazi;
and a score of miles or so further west of this ridge rises another, which runs north and south.

We camped on this day in the jungle, close to a narrow ravine with a marshy bottom, through
the oozy, miry contents of which the waters from the watershed of the Rungwa slowly trickled
southward towards the Rikwa Plain.  This was only one of many ravines, however, some of which
were several hundred yards broad, others were but a few yards in width, the bottoms of which
were most dangerous quagmires, overgrown with dense tall reeds and papyrus. Over the surface
of these great depths of mud were seen hundreds of thin threads of slimy ochre-coloured water,
which swarmed with animalculae.  By-and-by, a few miles south of the base of this ridge (which
I call Kasera, from the country which it cuts in halves), these several ravines converge and
debouch into the broad, [marshy?], oozy, spongy  "river" of Usense, which trends in a south-easterly
direction; after which, gathering the contents of the watercourses from the north and northeast
into its own broader channel, it soon becomes a stream of some breadth and consequence, and
meets a river flowing from the east, from the direction of Urori, with which it conflows in
the Rikwa Plain, and empties about sixty rectilineal miles further west into the Tanganika
Lake.  The Rungwa River, I am informed, is considered as a boundary line between the country
of Usowa on the north, and Ufipa on the south.

We had barely completed the construction of our camp defences when some of the men were heard
challenging a small party of natives which advanced towards our camp, headed by a man who,
from his garb and head-dress, we knew was from Zanzibar.  After interchanging the customary
salutations, I was informed that this party was an embassy from Simba ("Lion"), who ruled over
Kasera, in Southern Unyamwezi.  Simba, I was told, was the son of Mkasiwa, King of Unyanyembe,
and was carrying on war with the Wazavira, of whom I was warned to beware.  He had heard such
reports of my greatness that he was sorry I did not take his road to Ukawendi, that he might
have had the opportunity of seeing me, and making friends with me; but in the absence of a
personal visit Simba had sent this embassy to overtake me, in the hope that I would present
him with a token of my friendship in the shape of cloth.  Though I was rather taken aback by
the demand, still it was politic in me to make this powerful chief my friend, lest on my return
from the search after Livingstone he and I might fall out.  And since it was incumbent on me
to make a present, for the sake of peace, it was necessary to exhibit my desire for peace by
giving--if I gave at all--a royal present. The ambassador conveyed from me to Simba, or the
"Lion" of Kasera, two gorgeous cloths, and two other doti consisting of Merikani and Kaniki;
and, if I might believe the ambassador, I had made Simba a friend for ever.

On the 18th of October, breaking camp at the usual hour, we continued our march north-westward
by a road which zig-zagged along the base of the Kasera mountains, and which took us into all
kinds of difficulties.  We traversed at least a dozen marshy ravines, the depth of mire and
water in which caused the utmost anxiety.  I sunk up to my neck in deep holes in the Stygian
ooze caused by elephants, and had to tramp through the oozy beds of the Rungwa sources with
any clothes wet and black with mud and slime. Decency forbade that I should strip; and the
hot sun would also blister my body.  Moreover, these morasses were too frequent to lose time
in undressing and dressing, and, as each man was weighted with his own proper load, it would
have been cruel to compel the men to bear me across.  Nothing remained, therefore, but to march
on, all encumbered as I was with my clothing and accoutrements, into these several marshy watercourses,
with all the philosophical stoicism that my nature could muster for such emergencies.  But
it was very uncomfortable, to say the least of it.

We soon entered the territory of the dreaded Wazavira, but no enemy was in sight.  Simba, in
his wars, had made clean work of the northern part of Uzavira, and we encountered nothing worse
than a view of the desolated country, which must have been once--judging from the number of
burnt huts and debris of ruined villages--extremely populous.  A young jungle was sprouting
up vigorously in their fields, and was rapidly becoming the home of wild denizens of the forest.
In one of the deserted and ruined villages, I found quarters for the Expedition, which were
by no means uncomfortable. I shot three brace of guinea-fowl in the neighbourhood of Misonghi,
the deserted village we occupied, and Ulimengo, one of my hunters, bagged an antelope, called
the "mbawala," for whose meat some of the Wanyamwezi have a superstitious aversion.  I take
this species of antelope, which stands about three and a half feet high, of a reddish hide,
head long, horns short, to be the "Nzoe" antelope discovered by Speke in Uganda, and whose
Latin designation is, according to Dr. Sclater, Tragelaphus Spekii."  It has a short bushy
tail, and long hair along the spine.

A long march in a west-by-north direction, lasting six hours, through a forest where the sable
antelope was seen, and which was otherwise prolific with game, brought us to a stream which
ran by the base of a lofty conical hill, on whose slopes flourished quite a forest of feathery
bamboo.

On the 20th, leaving our camp, which lay between the stream and the conical hill above mentioned,
and surmounting a low ridge which sloped from the base of the hill-cone, we were greeted with
another picturesque view, of cones and scarped mountains, which heaved upward in all directions.
A march of nearly five hours through this picturesque country brought us to the Mpokwa River,
one of the tributaries of the Rungwa, and to a village lately deserted by the Wazavira.  The
huts were almost all intact, precisely as they were left by their former inhabitants.  In the
gardens were yet found vegetables, which, after living so long on meat, were most grateful
to us.  On the branches of trees still rested the Lares and Penates of the Wazavira, in the
shape of large and exceedingly well-made earthen pots.

In the neighbouring river one of my men succeeded, in few minutes, in catching sixty fish of
the silurus species the hand alone.  A number of birds hovered about stream , such as the white-headed
fish-eagle and the kingfisher, enormous, snowy spoonbills, ibis, martins, &c.  This river issued
from a mountain clump eight miles or so north of the village of Mpokwa, and comes flowing down
a narrow thread of water, sinuously winding amongst tall reeds and dense brakes on either side-the
home of hundreds of antelopes and buffaloes. South of Mpokwa, the valley broadens, and the
mountains deflect eastward and westward, and beyond this point commences the plain known as
the Rikwa, which, during the Masika is inundated, but which, in the dry season, presents the
same bleached aspect that plains in Africa generally do when the grass has ripened.

Travelling up along the right bank of the Mpokwa, on the 21st we came to the head of the stream,
and the sources of the Mpokwa, issuing out of deep defiles enclosed by lofty ranges.  The mbawala
and the buffalo were plentiful.

On the 22nd, after a march of four hours and a half, we came to the beautiful stream of Mtambu--the
water of which was sweet, and clear as crystal, and flowed northward.  We saw for the first
time the home of the lion and the leopard.  Hear what Freiligrath says of the place:

Where the thorny brake and thicket
  Densely fill the interspace
Of the trees, through whose thick branches
  Never sunshine lights the place,
There the lion dwells, a monarch,
  Mightiest among the brutes;
There his right to reign supremest
  Never one his claim disputes.
There he layeth down to slumber,
  Having slain and ta'en his fill;
There he roameth, there be croucheth,
  As it suits his lordly will.

We camped but a few yards from just such a place as the poet describes.  The herd-keeper who
attended the goats and donkeys, soon after our arrival in camp, drove the animals to water,
and in order to obtain it they travelled through a tunnel in the brake, caused by elephants
and rhinoceros.  They had barely entered the dark cavernous passage, when a black-spotted leopard
sprang, and fastened its fangs in the neck of one of the donkeys, causing it, from the pain,
to bray hideously.  Its companions set up such a frightful chorus, and so lashed their heels
in the air at the feline marauder, that the leopard bounded away through the brake, as if in
sheer dismay at the noisy cries which the attack had provoked.  The donkey's neck exhibited
some frightful wounds, but the animal was not dangerously hurt.

Thinking that possibly I might meet with an adventure with a lion or a leopard in that dark
belt of tall trees, under whose impenetrable shade grew the dense thicket that formed such
admirable coverts for the carnivorous species, I took a stroll along the awesome place with
the gunbearer, Kalulu, carrying an extra gun, and a further supply of ammunition.  We crept
cautiously along, looking keenly into the deep dark dens, the entrances of which were revealed
to us, as we journeyed, expectant every moment to behold the reputed monarch of the brake and
thicket, bound forward to meet us, and I took a special delight in picturing, in my imagination,
the splendor and majesty of the wrathful brute, as he might stand before me.  I peered closely
into every dark opening, hoping to see the deadly glitter of the great angry eyes, and the
glowering menacing front of the lion as he would regard me.  But, alas! after an hour's search
for adventure, I had encountered nothing, and I accordingly waxed courageous, and crept into
one of these leafy, thorny caverns, and found myself shortly standing under a canopy of foliage
that was held above my head fully a hundred feet by the shapely and towering stems of the royal
mvule.  Who can imagine the position?  A smooth lawn-like glade; a dense and awful growth of
impenetrable jungle around us; those stately natural pillars--a glorious phalanx of royal trees,
bearing at such sublime heights vivid green masses of foliage, through which no single sun-ray
penetrated, while at our feet babbled the primeval brook, over smooth pebbles, in soft tones
befitting the sacred quiet of the scene!  Who could have desecrated this solemn, holy harmony
of nature?  But just as I was thinking it impossible that any man could be tempted to disturb
the serene solitude of the place, I saw a monkey perched high on a branch over my head, contemplating,
with something of an awe-struck look, the strange intruders beneath. Well, I could not help
it, I laughed--laughed loud and long, until I was hushed by the chaos of cries and strange
noises which seemed to respond to my laughing.  A troop of monkeys, hidden in the leafy depths
above, had been rudely awakened, and, startled by the noise I made, were hurrying away from
the scene with a dreadful clamor of cries and shrieks.

Emerging again into the broad sunlight, I strolled further in search of something to shoot.
Presently, I saw, feeding quietly in the forest which bounded the valley of the Mtambu on the
left, a huge, reddish-coloured wild boar, armed with most horrid tusks. Leaving Kalulu crouched
down behind a tree, and my solar helmet behind another close by--that I might more safely stalk
the animal--I advanced towards him some forty yards, and after taking a deliberate aim, fired
at his fore shoulder.  As if nothing had hurt him whatever, the animal made a furious bound,
and then stood with his bristles erected, and tufted tail, curved over the back--a most formidable
brute in appearance.  While he was thus listening, and searching the neighbourhood with his
keen, small eyes, I planted another shot in his chest, which ploughed its way through his body.
Instead of falling, however, as I expected he would, he charged furiously in the direction
the bullet had come, and as he rushed past me, another ball was fired, which went right through
him; but still he kept on, until, within six or seven yards from the trees behind which Kalulu
was crouching down on one side, and the helmet was resting behind another, he suddenly halted,
and then dropped. But as I was about to advance on him with my knife to cut his throat, he
suddenly started up; his eyes had caught sight of the little boy Kalulu, and were then, almost
immediately afterwards, attracted by the sight of the snowy helmet.  These strange objects
on either side of him proved too much for the boar, for, with a terrific grunt, he darted on
one side into a thick brake, from which it was impossible to oust him, and as it was now getting
late, and the camp was about three miles away, I was reluctantly obliged to return without
the meat.

On our way to camp we were accompanied by a large animal which persistently followed us on
our left.  It was too dark to see plainly, but a large form was visible, if not very clearly
defined.  It must have been a lion, unless it was the ghost of the dead boar.

That night, about 11 P.M., we were startled by the roar of a lion, in close proximity to the
camp.  Soon it was joined by another, and another still, and the novelty of the thing kept
me awake. I peered through the gate of the camp, and endeavoured to sight a rifle--my little
Winchester, in the accuracy of which I had perfect confidence; but, alas! for the cartridges,
they might have been as well filled with sawdust for all the benefit I derived from them. 
Disgusted with the miserable ammunition, I left the lions alone, and turned in, with their
roaring as a lullaby.

That terrestrial paradise for the hunter, the valley of the pellucid Mtambu, was deserted by
us the next morning for the settlement commonly known to the Wakawendi as Imrera's, with as
much unconcern as though it were a howling desert.  The village near which we encamped was
called Itaga, in the district of Rusawa.  As soon as we had crossed the River Mtambu we had
entered Ukawendi, commonly called "Kawendi" by the natives of the country.

The district of Rusawa is thickly populated.  The people are quiet and well-disposed to strangers,
though few ever come to this region from afar.  One or two Wasawahili traders visit it every
year or so from Pumburu and Usowa; but very little ivory being obtained from the people, the
long distance between the settlements serves to deter the regular trader from venturing hither.

If caravans arrive here, the objective point to them is the district of Pumburu, situated south-westerly
one day's good marching, or, say, thirty statute miles from Imrera; or they make for Usowa,
on the Tanganika, via Pumburu, Katuma, Uyombeh, and Ugarawah.  Usowa is quite an important
district on the Tanganika, populous and flourishing.  This was the road we had intended to
adopt after leaving Imrera, but the reports received at the latter place forbade such a venture.
For Mapunda, the Sultan of Usowa, though a great friend to Arab traders, was at war with the
colony of the Wazavira, who we must remember were driven from Mpokwa and vicinity in Utanda,
and who were said to have settled between Pumburu and Usowa.

It remained for us, like wise, prudent men, having charge of a large and valuable Expedition
on our hands, to decide what to do, and what route to adopt, now that we had approached much
nearer to Ujiji than we were to Unyanyembe.  I suggested that we should make direct for the
Tanganika by compass, trusting to no road or guide, but to march direct west until we came
to the Tanganika, and then follow the lake shore on foot until we came to Ujiji.  For it ever
haunted my mind, that, if Dr. Livingstone should hear of my coming, which he might possibly
do if I travelled along any known road, he would leave, and that my search for him would consequently
be a "stern chase."  But my principal men thought it better that we should now boldly turn
our faces north, and march for the Malagarazi, which was said to be a large river flowing from
the east to the Tanganika. But none of my men knew the road to the Malagarazi, neither could
guides be hired from Sultan Imrera.  We were, however, informed that the Malagarazi was but
two days' march from Imrera.  I thought it safe, in such a case, to provision my men with three
days' rations. The village of Itaga is situated in a deep mountain hollow, finely overlooking
a large extent of cultivation.  The people grow sweet potatoes, manioc--out of which tapioca
is made--beans, and the holcus.  Not one chicken could be purchased for love or money, and,
besides grain, only a lean, scraggy specimen of a goat, a long time ago imported form Uvinza,
was procurable.

October the 25th will be remembered by me as a day of great troubles; in fact, a series of
troubles began from this date.  We struck an easterly road in order to obtain a passage to
the lofty plateau which bounded the valley of Imrera on the west and on the north.  We camped,
after a two and a half hours' march, at its foot.  The defile promised a feasible means of
ascent to the summit of the plateau, which rose upward in a series of scarps a thousand feet
above the valley of Imrera.

While ascending that lofty arc of mountains which bounded westerly and northerly the basin
of Imrera, extensive prospects southward and eastward were revealed.  The character of the
scenery at Ukawendi is always animated and picturesque, but never sublime.  The folds of this
ridge contained  several ruins of bomas, which seemed to have been erected during war time.

The mbemba fruit was plentiful along this march, and every few minutes I could see from the
rear one or two men hastening to secure a treasure of it which they discovered on the ground.

A little before reaching the camp I had a shot at a leopard, but failed to bring him down as
he bounded away.  At night the lions roared as at the Mtambu River.

A lengthy march under the deep twilight shadows of a great forest, which protected us from
the hot sunbeams, brought us, on the next day, to a camp newly constructed by a party of Arabs
from Ujiji, who had advanced thus far on their road to Unyanyembe, but, alarmed at the  reports
of the war between Mirambo and the Arabs, had returned.  Our route was along the right bank
of the Rugufu, a broad sluggish stream, well choked with the matete reeds and the papyrus.
The tracks and the bois de vaches of buffaloes were numerous, and there were several indications
of rhinoceros being near.  In a deep clump of timber near this river we discovered a colony
of bearded and leonine-looking monkeys.

As we were about leaving our camp on the morning of the 28th a herd of buffalo walked deliberately
into view.  Silence was quickly restored, but not before the animals, to their great surprise,
had discovered the danger which confronted them.  We commenced stalking them, but we soon heard
the thundering sound of their gallop, after which it becomes a useless task to follow them,
with a long march in a wilderness before one.

The road led on this day over immense sheets of sandstone and iron ore.  The water was abominable,
and scarce, and famine began to stare us in the face.  We travelled for six hours, and had
yet seen no sign of cultivation anywhere.  According to my map we were yet two long marches
from the Malagarazi--if Captain Burton had correctly laid down the position of the river; according
to the natives' account, we should have arrived at the Malagarazi on this day.

On the 29th we left our camp, and after a few minutes, we were in view of the sublimest, but
ruggedest, scenes we had yet beheld in Africa.  The country was cut up in all directions by
deep, wild, and narrow ravines trending in all directions, but generally toward the north-west,
while on either side rose enormous square masses of naked rock (sandstone), sometimes towering,
and rounded, sometimes pyramidal, sometimes in truncated cones, sometimes in circular ridges,
with sharp, rugged, naked backs, with but little vegetation anywhere visible, except it obtained
a precarious tenure in the fissured crown of some gigantic hill-top, whither some soil had
fallen, or at the base of the reddish ochre scarps which everywhere lifted their fronts to
our view.

A long series of descents down rocky gullies, wherein we were environed by threatening masses
of disintegrated rock, brought us to a dry, stony ravine, with mountain heights looming above
us a thousand feet high.  This ravine we followed, winding around in all directions, but which
gradually widened, however, into a broad plain, with a western trend.  The road, leaving this,
struck across a low ridge to the north; and we were in view of deserted settlements where the
villages were built on frowning castellated masses of rock.  Near an upright mass of rock over
seventy feet high, and about fifty yards in diameter, which dwarfed the gigantic sycamore close
to it, we made our camp, after five hours and thirty minutes' continuous and rapid marching.

The people were very hungry; they had eaten every scrap of meat, and every grain they possessed,
twenty hours before, and there was no immediate prospect of food.  I had but a pound and a
half of flour left, and this would not have sufficed to begin to feed a force of over forty-five
people; but I had something like thirty pounds of tea, and twenty pounds of sugar left, and
I at once, as soon as we arrived at camp, ordered every kettle to be filled and placed on the
fire, and then made tea for all; giving each man a quart of a hot, grateful beverage; well
sweetened.  Parties stole out also into the depths: of the jungle to search for wild fruit,
and soon returned laden with baskets of the wood-peach and tamarind fruit, which though it
did not satisfy, relieved them.  That night, before going to sleep, the Wangwana set up a loud
prayer to "Allah" to give them food.

We rose betimes in the morning, determined to travel on until food could be procured, or we
dropped down from sheer fatigue and weakness.  Rhinoceros' tracks abounded, and buffalo seemed
to be plentiful, but we never beheld a living thing.  We crossed scores of short steeps, and
descended as often into the depths of dry, stony gullies, and then finally entered a valley,
bounded on one side by a triangular mountain with perpendicular sides, and on the other by
a bold group, a triplet of hills.  While marching down this valley--which soon changed its
dry, bleached aspect to a vivid green--we saw a forest in the distance, and shortly found ourselves
in corn-fields.  Looking keenly around for a village, we descried it on the summit of the lofty
triangular hill on our right.  A loud exultant shout was raised at the discovery.  The men
threw down their packs, and began to clamour for food.  Volunteers were asked to come forward
to take cloth, and scale the heights to obtain it from the village, at any price.  While three
or four sallied off we rested on the ground, quite worn out.  In about an hour the foraging
party returned with the glorious tidings that food was plentiful; that the village we saw was
called, "Welled Nzogera's"--the son of Nzogera--by which, of course, we knew that we were in
Uvinza, Nzogera being the principal chief in Uvinza.  We were further informed that Nzogera,
the father, was at war with Lokanda-Mire, about some salt-pans in the valley of the Malagarazi,
and that it would be difficult to go to Ujiji by the usual road, owing to this war; but, for
a consideration, the son of Nzogera was willing to supply us with guides, who would take us
safely, by a northern road, to Ujiji.

Everything auguring well for our prospects, we encamped to enjoy the good cheer, for which
our troubles and privations, during the transit of the Ukawendi forests and jungles, had well
prepared us.

I am now going to extract from my Diary of the march, as, without its aid, I deem it impossible
to relate fully our various experiences, so as to show them properly as they occurred to us;
and as these extracts were written and recorded at the close of each day, they possess more
interest, in my opinion, than a cold relation of facts, now toned down in memory.

October 31st. Tuesday.--Our road led E.N.E. for a considerable time after leaving the base
of the triangular mountain whereon the son of Nzogera has established his stronghold, in order
to avoid a deep and impassable portion of marsh, that stood between us and the direct route
to the Malagarazi River.  The valley sloped rapidly to this marsh, which received in its broad
bosom the drainage of three extensive ranges.  Soon we turned our faces northwest, and prepared
to cross the marsh; and the guides informed us, as we halted on its eastern bank, of a terrible
catastrophe which occurred a few yards above where we were preparing to cross. They told of
an Arab and his caravan, consisting of thirty-five slaves, who had suddenly sunk out of sight,
and who were never more heard of.  This marsh, as it appeared to us, presented a breadth of
some hundreds of yards, on which grew a close network of grass, with much decayed matter mixed
up with it.  In the centre of this, and underneath it, ran a broad, deep, and rapid stream.
As the guides proceeded across, the men stole after them with cautious footsteps.  As they
arrived near the centre we began to see this unstable grassy bridge, so curiously provided
by nature for us, move up and down in heavy languid undulations, like the swell of the sea
after a storm.  Where the two asses of the Expedition moved, the grassy waves rose a foot high;
but suddenly one unfortunate animal plunged his feet through, and as he was unable to rise,
he soon made a deep hollow, which was rapidly filling with water.  With the aid of ten men,
however, we were enabled to lift him bodily up and land him on a firmer part, and guiding them
both across rapidly, the entire caravan crossed without accident.

On arriving at the other side, we struck off to the north, and found ourselves in a delightful
country, in every way suitable for agriculturists.  Great rocks rose here and there, but in
their fissures rose stately trees, under whose umbrage nestled the villages of the people.
We found the various village elders greedy for cloth, but the presence of the younger son of
Nzogera's men restrained their propensity for extortion.  Goats and sheep were remarkably cheap,
and in good condition; and, consequently, to celebrate our arrival near the Malagarazi, a flock
of eight goats was slaughtered, and distributed to the men.

November 1st.--Striking north-west, after leaving our camp, and descending the slope of a mountain,
we soon beheld the anxiously looked-for Malagarazi, a narrow but deep stream, flowing through
a valley pent in by lofty mountains.  Fish-eating birds lined the trees on its banks; villages
were thickly scattered about.  Food was abundant and cheap.

After travelling along the left bank of the river a few miles, we arrived at the settlements
recognizing Kiala as their ruler.  I had anticipated we should be able at once to cross the
river, but difficulties arose.  We were told to camp, before any negotiations could be entered
into.  When we demurred, we were informed we might cross the river if we wished, but we should
not be assisted by any Mvinza.

Being compelled to halt for this day, the tent was pitched in the middle of one of the villages,
and the bales were stored in one of the huts, with four soldiers to guard them.  After despatching
an embassy to Kiala, eldest son of the great chief Nzogera, to request permission to cross
the river as a peaceable caravan, Kiala sent word that the white man should cross his river
after the payment of fifty-six cloths!  Fifty-six cloths signified a bale nearly!

Here was another opportunity for diplomacy.  Bombay and Asmani were empowered to treat with
Kiala about the honga, but it was not to exceed twenty-five doti.  At 6 A.M., having spoken
for seven hours, the two men returned, with the demand for thirteen doti for Nzogera, and ten
doti for Kiala.  Poor Bombay was hoarse, but Asmani still smiled; and I relented, congratulating
myself that the preposterous demand, which was simply robbery, was no worse.

Three hours later another demand was made.  Kiala had been visited by a couple of chiefs from
his father; and the chiefs being told that a white man was at the ferry, put in a claim for
a couple of guns and a keg of gunpowder.  But here my patience was exhausted, and I declared
that they should have to take them by force, for I would never consent to be robbed and despoiled
after any such fashion.

Until 11 P.M., Bombay and Asmani were negotiating about this extra demand, arguing, quarreling,
threatening, until Bombay declared they would talk him mad if it lasted much longer.  I told
Bombay to take two cloths, one for each chief, and, if they did not consider it enough, then
I should fight.  The present was taken, and the negotiations were terminated at midnight.

November 2nd.--Ihata Island, one and a half hour west of Kiala's. We arrived before the Island
of Ihata, on the left bank of the Malagarazi, at 5 p.m.; the morning having been wasted in
puerile talk with the owner of the canoes at the ferry.  The final demand for ferriage across
was eight yards of cloth and four fundo* of sami-sami, or red beads; which was at once paid.
Four men, with their loads, were permitted to cross in the small, unshapely, and cranky canoes.
When the boatmen had discharged their canoes of their passengers and cargoes, they were ordered
to halt on the other side, and, to my astonishment, another demand was made.  The ferrymen
had found that two fundo of these were of short measure, and two fundo more must be paid, otherwise
the contract for ferrying us across would be considered null and void.  So two fundo more were
added, but not without demur and much "talk," which in these lands is necessary.

** 4 fundo == 40 necklaces; 1 fundo being 10 necklaces.

Three times the canoes went backwards and forwards, when, lo! another demand was made, with
the usual clamour and fierce wordy dispute; this time for five khete # for the man who guided
us to the ferry, a shukka of cloth for a babbler, who had attached himself to the old-womanish
Jumah, who did nothing but babble and increase the clamor.  These demands were also settled.

# Necklaces.

About sunset we endeavoured to cross the donkeys.  "Simba," a fine wild Kinyamwezi donkey,
went in first, with a rope attached to his neck.  He had arrived at the middle of the stream
when we saw him begin to struggle--a crocodile had seized him by the throat. The poor animal's
struggles were terrific.  Chowpereh was dragging on the rope with all his might, but to no
use, for the donkey sank, and we saw no more of him.  The depth of the river at this place
was about fifteen feet.  We had seen the light-brown heads, the glittering eyes, and the ridgy
backs, hovering about the vicinity, but we had never thought that the reptiles would advance
so near such an exciting scene as the vicinity of the ferry presented during the crossing.
Saddened a little by this loss, we resumed our work, and by 7 P.M. we were all across, excepting
Bombay and the only donkey now left, which was to be brought across in the morning, when the
crocodiles should have deserted the river.

November 3rd.--What contention have we not been a witness to these last three days!  What anxiety
have we not suffered ever since our arrival in Uvinza!  The Wavinza are worse than the Wagogo,
and their greed is more insatiable.  We got the donkey across with the aid of a mganga, or
medicine man, who spat some chewed leaves of a tree which grows close to the stream over him.
He informed me he could cross the river at any time, day or night, after rubbing his body with
these chewed leaves, which he believed to be a most potent medicine.

About 10 A.M. appeared from the direction of Ujiji a caravan of eighty Waguhha, a tribe which
occupies a tract of country on the south-western side of the Lake Tanganika.  We asked the
news, and were told a white man had just arrived at Ujiji from Manyuema. This news startled us all.

"A white man?" we asked.

"Yes, a white man," they replied.

"How is he dressed?"

"Like the master," they answered, referring to me.

"Is he young, or old?"

"He is old.  He has white hair on his face, and is sick."

"Where has he come from?"

"From a very far country away beyond Uguhha, called Manyuema."

"Indeed! and is he stopping at Ujiji now?"

"Yes, we saw him about eight days ago."

"Do you think he will stop there until we see him?"

"Sigue" (don't know).

"Was he ever at Ujiji before?"

"Yes, he went away a long time ago."

Hurrah!  This is Livingstone!  He must be Livingstone!  He can be no other; but still;--he
may be some one else--some one from the West Coast--or perhaps he is Baker!  No; Baker has
no white hair on his face.  But we must now march quick, lest he hears we are coming, and runs
away.

I addressed my men, and asked them if they were willing to march to Ujiji without a single
halt, and then promised them, if they acceded to my wishes, two doti each man.  All answered
in the affirmative, almost as much rejoiced as I was myself.  But I was madly rejoiced; intensely
eager to resolve the burning question, "Is it Dr. David Livingstone?"  God grant me patience,
but I do wish there was a railroad, or, at least, horses in this country.

We set out at once from the banks of the Malagarazi, accompanied by two guides furnished us
by Usenge, the old man of the ferry, who, now that we had crossed, showed himself more amiably
disposed to us.  We arrived at the village of Isinga, Sultan Katalambula, after a little over
an hour's march across a saline plain, but which as we advanced into the interior became fertile
and productive.

November 4th.--Started early with great caution, maintaining deep silence.  The guides were
sent forward, one two hundred yards ahead of the other, that we might be warned in time.  The
first part of the march was through a thin jungle of dwarf trees, which got thinner and thinner
until finally it vanished altogether, and we had entered Uhha--a plain country.  Villages were
visible by the score among the tall bleached stalks of dourra and maize.  Sometimes three,
sometimes five, ten, or twenty beehive-shaped huts formed a village. The Wahha were evidently
living in perfect security, for not one village amongst them all was surrounded with the customary
defence of an African village.  A narrow dry ditch formed the only boundary between Uhha and
Uvinza.  On entering Uhha, all danger from Makumbi vanished.

We halted at Kawanga, the chief of which lost no time in making us understand that he was the
great Mutware of Kimenyi under the king, and that he was the tribute gatherer for his Kiha
majesty.  He declared that he was the only one in Kimenyi--an eastern division of Uhha--who
could demand tribute; and that it would be very satisfactory to him, and a saving of trouble
to ourselves, if we settled his claim of twelve doti of good cloths at once.  We did not think
it the best way of proceeding, knowing as we did the character of the native African; so we
at once proceeded to diminish this demand; but, after six hours' hot argument, the Mutware
only reduced it by two.  This claim was then settled, upon the understanding that we should
be allowed to travel through Uhha as far as the Rusugi River without being further mulcted.

November 5th.--Leaving Kawanga early in the morning and continuing our march over the boundless
plains, which were bleached white by the hot equatorial sun, we were marching westward full
of pleasant anticipations that we were nearing the end of our troubles, joyfully congratulating
ourselves that within five days we should see that which I had come so far from civilisation,
and through so many difficulties, to see, and were about passing a cluster of villages, with
all the confidence which men possess against whom no one had further claim or a word to say,
when I noticed two men darting from a group of natives who were watching us, and running towards
the head of the Expedition, with the object, evidently, of preventing further progress.

The caravan stopped, and I walked forward to ascertain the cause from the two natives.  I was
greeted politely by the two Wahha with the usual "Yambos," and was then asked, "Why does the
white man pass by the village of the King of Uhha without salutation and a gift?  Does not
the white man know there lives a king in Uhha, to whom the Wangwana and Arabs pay something
for right of passage?"

"Why, we paid last night to the chief of Kawanga, who informed us that he was the man deputed
by the King of Uhha to collect the toll."

"How much did you pay?"

"Ten doti of good cloth."

"Are you sure?"

"Quite sure.  If you ask him, he will tell you so."

"Well," said one of the Wahha, a fine, handsome, intelligent-looking youth, "it is our duty
to the king to halt you here until we find out the truth of this.  Will you walk to our village,
and rest yourselves under the shade of our trees until we can send messengers to Kawanga?"

"No; the sun is but an hour high, and we have far to travel; but, in order to show you we do
not seek to pass through your country without doing that which is right, we will rest where
we now stand, and we will send with your messengers two of our soldiers, who will show you
the man to whom we paid the cloth."

The messengers departed; but, in the meantime, the handsome youth, who turned out to be the
nephew of the King, whispered some order to a lad, who immediately hastened away, with the
speed of an antelope, to the cluster of villages which we had just passed.  The result of this
errand, as we saw in a short time, was the approach of a body of warriors, about fifty in number,
headed by a tall, fine-looking man, who was dressed in a crimson robe called Joho, two ends
of which were tied in a knot over the left shoulder; a new piece of American sheeting was folded
like a turban around his head, and a large curved piece of polished ivory was suspended to
his neck.  He and his people were all armed with spears, and bows and arrows, and their advance
was marked with a deliberation that showed they felt confidence in any issue that might transpire.

We were halted on the eastern side of the Pombwe stream, near the village of Lukomo, in Kimenyi,
Uhha.  The gorgeously-dressed chief was a remarkable man in appearance.  His face was oval
in form, high cheek-bones, eyes deeply sunk, a prominent and bold forehead, a fine nose, and
a well-cut mouth; he was tall in figure, and perfectly symmetrical.

When near to us, he hailed me with the words,

"Yambo, bana?--How do you do, master?" in quite a cordial tone.

I replied cordially also, "Yambo, mutware?--How do you do, chief?"

We, myself and men, interchanged "Yambos" with his warriors; and there was nothing in our first
introduction to indicate that the meeting was of a hostile character.

The chief seated himself, his haunches resting on his heels, laying down his bow and arrows
by his side; his men did likewise.

I seated myself on a bale, and each of my men sat down on their loads, forming quite a semicircle.
The Wahha slightly outnumbered my party; but, while they were only armed with bows and arrows,
spears, and knob-sticks, we were armed with rifles, muskets, revolvers, pistols, and hatchets.

All were seated, and deep silence was maintained by the assembly. The great plains around us
were as still in this bright noon as if they were deserted of all living creatures.  Then the
chief spoke:

"I am Mionvu, the great Mutware of Kimenyi, and am next to the King, who lives yonder," pointing
to a large village near some naked hills about ten miles to the north.  "I have come to talk
with the white man.  It has always been the custom of the Arabs and the Wangwana to make a
present to the King when they pass through his country.  Does not the white man mean to pay
the King's dues?  Why does the white man halt in the road?  Why will he not enter the village
of Lukomo, where there is food and shade--where we can discuss this thing quietly?  Does the
white man mean to fight? I know well he is stronger than we are.  His men have guns, and the
Wahha have but bows and arrows, and spears; but Uhha is large, and our villages are many. 
Let him look about him everywhere--all is Uhha, and our country extends much further than he
can see or walk in a day.  The King of Uhha is strong; yet he wishes friendship only with the
white man.  Will the white man have war or peace?"

A deep murmur of assent followed this speech of Mionvu from his people, and disapprobation,
blended with a certain uneasiness; from my men.  When about replying, the words of General
Sherman, which I heard him utter to the chiefs of the Arapahoes and Cheyennes at North Platte,
in 1867, came to my mind; and something of their spirit I embodied in my reply to Mionvu, Mutware
of Kimenyi.

"Mionvu, the great Mutware, asks me if I have come for war. When did Mionvu ever hear of white
men warring against black men? Mionvu must understand that the white men are different from
the black.  White men do not leave their country to fight the black people, neither do they
come here to buy ivory or slaves.  They come to make friends with black people; they come to
search for rivers; and lakes, and mountains; they come to discover what countries, what peoples,
what rivers, what lakes, what forests, what plains, what mountains and hills are in your country;
to know the different animals that are in the land of the black people, that, when they go
back, they may tell the white kings, and men, and children, what they have seen and heard in
the land so far from them.  The white people are different from the Arabs and Wangwana; the
white people know everything, and are very strong.  When they fight, the Arabs and the Wangwana
run away.  We have great guns which thunder,, and when they shoot the earth trembles; we have
guns which carry bullets further than you can see:  even with these little things" (pointing
to my revolvers) "I could kill ten men quicker than you could count.  We are stronger than
the Wahha. Mionvu has spoken the truth, yet we do not wish to fight.  I could kill Mionvu now,
yet I talk to him as to a friend.  I wish to be a friend to Mionvu, and to all black people.
Will Mionvu say what I can do for him?"

As these words were translated to him--imperfectly, I suppose, but still, intelligibly--the
face of the Wahha showed how well they appreciated them.  Once or twice I thought I detected
something like fear, but my assertions that I desired peace and friendship with them soon obliterated
all such feelings.

Mionvu replied:

"The white man tells me he is friendly.  Why does he not come to our village?  Why does he
stop on the road?  The sun is hot. Mionvu will not speak here any more.  If the white man is
a friend he will come to the village."

"We must stop now.  It is noon.  You have broken our march.  We will go and camp in your village,"
I said, at the same time rising and pointing to the men to take up their loads.

We were compelled to camp; there was no help for it; the messengers had not returned from Kawanga.
Having arrived in his village, Mionvu had cast himself at full length under the scanty shade
afforded by a few trees within the boma.  About 2 P.M. the messengers returned, saying it was
true the chief of Kawanga had taken ten cloths; not, however for the King of Uhha, but for himself!

Mionvu, who evidently was keen-witted, and knew perfectly what he was about, now roused himself,
and began to make miniature faggots of thin canes, ten in each faggot, and shortly he presented
ten of these small bundles, which together contained one hundred, to me, saying each stick
represented a cloth, and the amount of the "honga" required by the King of Uhha was ONE HUNDRED
CLOTHS!--nearly two bales!

Recovering from our astonishment, which was almost indescribable, we offered TEN.

"Ten! to the King of Uhha!  Impossible.  You do not stir from Lukomo until you pay us one hundred!"
exclaimed Mionvu, in a significant manner.

I returned no answer, but went to my hut, which Mionvu had cleared for my use, and Bombay,
Asmani, Mabruki, and Chowpereh were invited-- to come to me for consultation.  Upon my asking
them if we could not fight our way through Uhha, they became terror-stricken, and Bombay, in
imploring accents, asked me to think well what I was about to do, because it was useless to
enter on a war with the Wahha.  "Uhha is all a plain country; we cannot hide anywhere.  Every
village will rise all about us, and how can forty-five men fight thousands of people?  They
would kill us all in a few minutes, and how would you ever reach Ujiji if you died?  Think
of it, my dear master, and do not throw your life away for a few rags of cloth."

"Well, but, Bombay, this is robbery.  Shall we submit to be robbed? Shall we give this fellow
everything he asks?  He might as well ask me for all the cloth, and all my guns, without letting
him see that we can fight.  I can kill Mionvu and his principal men myself, and you can slay
all those howlers out there without much trouble. If Mionvu and his principal were dead we
should not be troubled much, and we could strike south to the Mala-garazi, and go west to Ujiji."

 "No, no, dear master, don't think of it for a moment.  If we went
 neat the Malagarazi we should come across Lokanda-Mira."

 "Well, then, we will go north."

 "Up that way Uhha extends far; and beyond Uhha are the Watuta."

 "Well, then, say what we shall do.  We must do something; but we
 must not be robbed."

 "Pay Mionvu what he asks, and let us go away from here.  This is
 the last place we shall have to pay.  And in four days we shall be
 in Ujiji."

 "Did Mionvu tell you that this is the last time we would have to
 pay?"

 "He did, indeed."

 "What do you say, Asmani ?  Shall we fight or pay?"  Asmani's
 face wore the usual smile, but he replied,

 "I am afraid we must pay.  This is positively the last time."

 "And you, Chowpereh?"

 "Pay, bana; it is better to get along quietly in this country.
 If we were strong enough they would pay us.  Ah, if we had only
 two hundred guns, how these Wahha would run!"

 "What do you say, Mabruki?"

 "Ah, master, dear master; it is very hard, and these people are
 great robbers.  I would like to chop their heads off, all; so I
 would.  But you had better pay.  This is the last time; and what
 are one hundred cloths to you?"

 "Well, then, Bombay and Asmani, go to Mionvu, and offer him twenty.
 If he will not take twenty, give him thirty.  If he refuses thirty,
 give him forty; then go up to eighty, slowly.  Make plenty of talk;
 not one doti more.  I swear to you I will shoot Mionvu if he demands
 more than eighty.  Go, and remember to be wise."

 I will cut the matter short.  At 9 P.M. sixty-four doti were
 handed over to Mionvu, for the King of Uhha; six doti for
 himself, and five doti for his sub; altogether seventy-five doti--
 a bale and a quarter!  No sooner had we paid than they began to
 fight amongst themselves over the booty, and I was in hopes that
 the factions would proceed to battle, that I might have good excuse
 for leaving them, and plunging south to the jungle that I believed
 existed there, by which means, under its friendly cover, we might
 strike west.  But no, it was only a verbose war, which portended
 nothing more than a noisy clamor.

 November 6th.--At dawn we were on the road, very silent and sad.
 Our stock of cloth was much diminished; we had nine bales left,
 sufficient to have taken us to the Atlantic Ocean--aided by the
 beads, which were yet untouched--if we practised economy.  If I
 met many more like Mionvu I had not enough to take me to Ujiji,
 and, though we were said to be so near, Livingstone seemed to me
 to be just as far as ever.

 We crossed the Pombwe, and then struck across a slowly-undulating
 plain rising gradually to mountains on our right, and on our left
 sinking towards the valley of the Malagarazi, which river was
 about twenty miles away.  Villages rose to our view everywhere.
 Food was cheap, milk was plentiful, and the butter good.

 After a four hours' march, we crossed the Kanengi River, and
 entered the boma of Kahirigi, inhabited by several Watusi and Wahha.
 Here, we were told, lived the King of Uhha's brother.  This
 announcement was anything but welcome, and I began to suspect I had
 fallen into another hornets' nest.  We had not rested two hours
 before two Wangwana entered my tent, who were slaves of Thani bin
 Abdullah, our dandified friend of Unyanyembe.  These men came, on
 the part of the king's brother, to claim the HONGA !  The king's
 brother, demanded thirty doti!  Half a bale!  Merciful Providence!
 What shall I do?

 We had been told by Mionvu that the honga of Uhha was settled--and
 now here is another demand from the King's brother!  It is the
 second time the lie has been told, and we have twice been deceived.
 We shall be deceived no more.

 These two men informed us there were five more chiefs, living but
 two hours from each other, who would exact tribute, or black-mail,
 like those we had seen.  Knowing this much, I felt a certain calm.
 It was far better to know the worst at once.  Five more chiefs with
 their demands would assuredly ruin us.  In view of which, what is
 to be done?  How am I to reach Livingstone, without being beggared?

 Dismissing the men, I called Bombay, and told him to assist Asmani
 in settling the honga--" as cheaply as possible."  I then lit my
 pipe, put on the cap of consideration, and began to think.  Within
 half an hour, I had made a plan, which was to be attempted to be
 put in execution that very night.

 I summoned the two slaves of Thani bin Abdullah, after the honga
 had been settled to everybody's satisfaction--though the profoundest
 casuistries and diplomatic arguments failed to reduce it lower than
 twenty-six doti--and began asking them about the possibility of
 evading the tribute-taking Wahha ahead.

 This rather astonished them at first, and they declared it to be
 impossible; but, finally, after being pressed, they replied, that
 one of their number should guide us at midnight, or a little after,
 into the jungle which grew on the frontiers of Uhha and Uvinza.  By
 keeping a direct west course through this jungle until we came to
 Ukaranga we might be enabled--we were told--to travel through Uhha
 without further trouble.  If I were willing to pay the guide
 twelve doti, and if I were able to impose silence on my people
 while passing through the sleeping village, the guide was positive
 I could reach Ujiji without paying another doti.  It is needless to
 add, that I accepted the proffered assistance at such a price with
 joy.

 But there was much to be done.  Provisions were to be purchased,
 sufficient to last four days, for the tramp through the jungle,
 and men were at once sent with cloth to purchase grain at any price.
 Fortune favoured us, for before 8 P.M. we had enough for six days.

 November 7th.--I did not go to sleep at all last night, but a
 little after midnight, as the moon was beginning to show itself,
 by gangs of four, the men stole quietly out of the village; and
 by 3 A.M. the entire Expedition was outside the boma, and not the
 slightest alarm had been made.  After a signal to the new guide,
 the Expedition began to move in a southern direction along the
 right bank of the Kanengi River.  After an hour's march in this
 direction, we struck west, across the grassy plain, and maintained
 it, despite the obstacles we encountered, which were sore enough to
 naked men.

 Bravely toiled the men, without murmur, though their legs were
 bleeding from the cruel grass.  "Ambrosial morn" at last appeared,
 with all its beautiful and lovely features.  Heaven was born anew
 to us, with comforting omens and cheery promise.  The men, though
 fatigued at the unusual travel, sped forward with quicker, pace as
 daylight broke, until, at 8 A.M., we sighted the swift Rusugi River,
 when a halt was ordered in a clump of jungle near it, for breakfast
 and rest.  Both banks of the river were alive with buffalo, eland,
 and antelope, but, though the sight was very tempting, we did not
 fire, because we dared not.  The report of a gun would have alarmed
 the whole country.  I preferred my coffee, and the contentment which
 my mind experienced at our success.

 An hour after we had rested, some natives, carrying salt from the
 Malagarazi, were seen coming up the right bank of the river.  When
 abreast of our hiding-place, they detected us, and dropping their
 salt-bags, they took to their heels at once, shouting out as they
 ran, to alarm some villages that appeared about four miles north of
 us.  The men were immediately ordered to take up their loads, and
 in a few minutes we had crossed the Rusugi, and were making direct
 for a bamboo jungle that appeared in our front.  On, on, we kept
 steadily until, at 1 P.M., we sighted the little lake of Musunya,
 as wearied as possible with our nine hours march.

 Lake Musunya is one of the many circular basins found in this part
 of Uhha.  There was quite a group of them.  The more correct term
 of these lakes would be immense pools.  In the Masika season, Lake
 Musunya must extend to three or four miles in length by two in breadth.
 It swarms with hippopotami, and its shores abound with noble game.

 We were very quiet, as may be imagined, in our bivouac; neither
 tent nor hut was raised, nor was fire kindled, so that, in case of
 pursuit, we could move off without delay.  I kept my Winchester
 rifle (the gift of my friend Mr. Morris, and a rare gift it was
 for such a crisis) with its magazine full, and two hundred
 cartridges in a bag slung over my shoulders.  Each soldier's gun
 was also ready and loaded, and we retired to sleep our fatigues
 off with a feeling of perfect security.

 November 8th.--Long before dawn appeared, we were on the march, and,
 as daylight broke, we emerged from the bamboo jungle, and struck
 across the naked plain of Uhha, once more passing several large
 pools by the way--far-embracing prospects of undulating country,
 with here and there a characteristic clump of trees relieving the
 general nudity of the whole.  Hour after hour we toiled on,
 across the rolling land waves, the sun shining with all its wonted
 African fervor, but with its heat slightly tempered by the
 welcome breezes, which came laden with the fragrance of young
 grass, and perfume of strange flowers of various hues, that flecked
 the otherwise pale-green sheet which extended so far around us.

 We arrived at the Rugufu River--not the Ukawendi Rugufu, but the
 northern stream of that name, a tributary of the Malagarazi.  It
 was a broad shallow stream, and sluggish, with an almost imperceptible
 flow south-west.  While we halted in the deep shade afforded by a
 dense clump of jungle, close to the right bank, resting awhile before
 continuing our journey.  I distinctly heard a sound as of distant
 thunder in the west.  Upon asking if it were thunder, I was told it
 was Kabogo.

 "Kabogo? what is that?"

 "It is a great mountain on the other side of the Tanganika, full
 of deep holes, into which the water rolls; and when there is wind
 on the Tanganika, there is a sound like mvuha (thunder).  Many
 boats have been lost there, and it is a custom with Arabs and
 natives to throw cloth--Merikani and Kaniki--and especially white
 (Merikani) beads, to appease the mulungu (god) of the lake.
 Those who throw beads generally get past without trouble,
 but those who do not throw beads into the lake get lost, and are
 drowned.  Oh, it is a dreadful place!"  This story was told me by
 the ever-smiling guide Asmani, and was corroborated by other
 former mariners of the lake whom I had with me.

 At the least, this place where we halted for dinner, on the banks
 of the Rugufu River, is eighteen and a half hours, or forty-six
 miles, from Ujiji; and, as Kabogo is said to be near Uguhha, it
 must be over sixty miles from Ujiji; therefore the sound of the
 thundering surf, which is said to roll into the caves of Kabogo,
 was heard by us at a distance of over one hundred miles away from
 them.

 Continuing our journey for three hours longer, through thin
 forests, over extensive beds of primitive rock, among fields of
 large boulders thickly strewn about, passing by numerous herds
 of buffalo, giraffe, and zebra, over a quaking quagmire which
 resembled peat, we arrived at the small stream of Sunuzzi, to a
 camping place only a mile removed from a large settlement of Wahha.
 But we were buried in the depths of a great forest--no road was in
 the vicinity, no noise was made, deep silence was preserved; nor
 were fires lit.  We might therefore rest tranquilly secure, certain
 that we should not be disturbed.  To-morrow morning the kirangozi
 has promised we shall be out of Uhha, and if we travel on to
 Niamtaga, in Ukaranga, the same day, the next day would see us
 in Ujiji.

 Patience, my soul!  A few hours more, then the end of all this
 will be known!  I shall be face to face with that "white man with
 the white hairs on his face, whoever he is!"

 November 9th.--Two hours before dawn we left our camp on the Sunuzzi
 River, and struck through the forest in a north-by-west direction,
 having muzzled our goats previously, lest, by their bleating, they
 might betray us.  This was a mistake which might have ended
 tragically, for just as the eastern sky began to assume a pale
 greyish tint, we emerged from the jungle on the high road.  The
 guide thought we had passed Uhha, and set up a shout which was
 echoed by every member of the caravan, and marched onward with
 new vigor and increased energy, when plump we came to the outskirts
 of a village, the inhabitants of which were beginning to stir.
 Silence was called for at once, and the Expedition halted
 immediately.  I walked forward to the front to advise with the guide.
 He did not know what to do.  There was no time to consider, so I
 ordered the goats to be slaughtered and left on the road, and the
 guide to push on boldly through the village.  The chickens also had
 their throats cut; after which the Expedition resumed the march
 quickly and silently, led by the guide, who had orders to plunge
 into the jungle south of the road.  I stayed until the last man
 had disappeared; then, after preparing my Winchester, brought up
 the rear, followed by my gunbearers with their stock of ammunition.
 As we were about disappearing beyond the last hut, a man darted out
 of his hut, and uttered an exclamation of alarm, and loud voices
 were heard as if in dispute.  But in a short time we were in the
 depths of the jungle, hurrying away from the road in a southern
 direction, and edging slightly westward.  Once I thought we were
 pursued, and I halted behind a tree to check our foes if they
 persisted in following us; but a few minutes proved to me that we
 were not pursued, After half-an-hour's march we again turned our
 faces westward.  It was broad daylight now, and our eyes were
 delighted with most picturesque and sequestered little valleys,
 where wild fruit-trees grew, and rare flowers blossomed, and
 tiny brooks tumbled over polished pebbles--where all was bright
 and beautiful--until, finally, wading through one pretty pure
 streamlet, whose soft murmurs we took for a gentle welcome, we
 passed the boundary of wicked Uhha, and had entered Ukaranga!--
 an event that was hailed with extravagant shouts of joy.

 Presently we found the smooth road, and we trod gaily with
 elastic steps, with limbs quickened for the march which we all
 knew to be drawing near its end.  What cared we now for the
 difficulties we had encountered--for the rough and cruel forests,
 for the thorny thickets and hurtful grass, for the jangle of all
 savagedom, of which we had been the joyless audience!  To-morrow!
 Ay, the great day draws nigh, and we may well laugh and sing while
 in this triumphant mood.  We have been sorely tried; we have been
 angry with each other when vexed by troubles, but we forget all
 these now, and there is no face but is radiant with the happiness
 we have all deserved.

 We made a short halt at noon, for rest and refreshment.  I was
 shown the hills from which the Tanganika could be seen, which
 bounded the valley of the Liuche on the east.  I could not contain
 myself at the sight of them.  Even with this short halt I was
 restless and unsatisfied.  We resumed the march again.  I spurred
 my men forward with the promise that to-morrow should see their reward.

 We were in sight of the villages of the Wakaranga; the people
 caught sight of us, and manifested considerable excitement.  I sent
 men ahead to reassure them, and they came forward to greet us.  This
 was so new and welcome to us, so different from the turbulent Wavinza
 and the black-mailers of Uhha, that we were melted.  But we had
 no time to loiter by the way to indulge our joy.  I was impelled onward
 by my almost uncontrollable feelings.  I wished to resolve my doubts
 and fears.  Was HE still there?  Had HE heard of my coming?  Would HE
 fly?

 How beautiful Ukaranga appears!  The green hills are crowned by
 clusters of straw-thatched cones.  The hills rise and fall; here
 denuded and cultivated, there in pasturage, here timbered, yonder
 swarming with huts.  The country has somewhat the aspect of Maryland.

 We cross the Mkuti, a glorious little river!  We ascend the opposite
 bank, and stride through the forest like men who have done a deed
 of which they may be proud.  We have already travelled nine hours,
 and the sun is sinking rapidly towards the west; yet, apparently,
 we are not fatigued.

 We reach the outskirts of Niamtaga, and we hear drums beat.  The
 people are flying into the woods; they desert their villages, for
 they take us to be Ruga-Ruga--the forest thieves of Mirambo, who,
 after conquering the Arabs of Unyanyembe, are coming to fight the
 Arabs of Ujiji.  Even the King flies from his village, and every
 man, woman, and child, terror-stricken, follows him.  We enter
 into it and quietly take possession.  Finally, the word is bruited
 about that we are Wangwana, from Unyanyembe.

 "Well, then, is Mirambo dead?" they ask.

 "No," we answer.

 "Well, how did you come to Ukaranga?"

 "By way of Ukonongo, Ukawendi, and Uhha."

 " Oh--hi-le!" Then they laugh heartily at their fright, and begin
 to make excuses.  The King is introduced to me, and he says he had
 only gone to the woods in order to attack us again--he meant to have
 come back and killed us all, if we had been Ruga-Ruga.  But then we
 know the poor King was terribly frightened, and would never have
 dared to return, had we been RugaRuga--not he.  We are not, however,
 in a mood to quarrel with him about an idiomatic phrase peculiar
 to him, but rather take him by the hand and shake it well, and say
 we are so very glad to see him.  And he shares in our pleasure,
 and immediately three of the fattest sheep, pots of beer, flour,
 and honey are brought to us as a gift, and I make him happier still
 with two of the finest cloths I have in my bales; and thus a
 friendly pact is entered into between us.

 While I write my Diary of this day's proceedings, I tell my
 servant to lay out my new flannel suit, to oil my boots, to
 chalk my helmet, and fold a new puggaree around it, that I may
 make as presentable an appearance as possible before the white
 man with the grey beard, and before the Arabs of Ujiji; for the
 clothes I have worn through jungle and forest are in tatters.
 Good-night; only let one day come again, and we shall see what
 we shall see.

 November 10th. Friday.--The 236th day from Bagamoyo on the Sea,
 and the 51st day from Unyanyembe.  General direction to Ujiji,
 west-by-south.  Time of march, six hours.

 It is a happy, glorious morning.  The air is fresh and cool.
 The sky lovingly smiles on the earth and her children.  The deep
 woods are crowned in bright vernal leafage; the water of the Mkuti,
 rushing under the emerald shade afforded by the bearded banks,
 seems to challenge us for the race to Ujiji, with its continuous
 brawl.

 We are all outside the village cane fence, every man of us looking
 as spruce, as neat, and happy as when we embarked on the dhows at
 Zanzibar, which seems to us to have been ages ago--we have witnessed
 and experienced so much.

 "Forward!"

 "Ay Wallah, ay Wallah, bana yango!" and the lighthearted braves
 stride away at a rate which must soon bring us within view of
 Ujiji.  We ascend a hill overgrown with bamboo, descend into a
 ravine through which dashes an impetuous little torrent, ascend
 another short hill, then, along a smooth footpath running across
 the slope of a long ridge, we push on as only eager, lighthearted
 men can do.

 In two hours I am warned to prepare for a view of the Tanganika,
 for, from the top of a steep mountain the kirangozi says I can see
 it.  I almost vent the feeling of my heart in cries.  But wait, we
 must behold it first.  And we press forward and up the hill
 breathlessly, lest the grand scene hasten away.  We are at last on
 the summit.  Ah! not yet can it be seen.  A little further on--just
 yonder, oh! there it is--a silvery gleam.  I merely catch sight of
 it between the trees, and--but here it is at last!  True--THE TANGANIKA!
 and there are the blue-black mountains of Ugoma and Ukaramba.  An
 immense broad sheet, a burnished bed of silver--lucid canopy of
 blue above--lofty mountains are its valances, palm forests form its
 fringes!  The Tanganika!--Hurrah! and the men respond to the
 exultant cry of the Anglo-Saxon with the lungs of Stentors, and the
 great forests and the hills seem to share in our triumph.

 "Was this the place where Burton and Speke stood, Bombay, when they
 saw the lake first?"

 "I don't remember, master; it was somewhere about here, I think."

 "Poor fellows!  The one was half-paralyzed, the other half-blind,"
 said Sir Roderick Murchison, when he described Burton and Spoke's
 arrival in view of the Tanganika.

 And I?  Well, I am so happy that, were I quite paralyzed and
 blinded, I think that at this supreme moment I could take up my
 bed and walk, and all blindness would cease at once.  Fortunately,
 however, I am quite well; I have not suffered a day's sickness
 since the day I left Unyanyembe.  How much would Shaw be willing
 to give to be in my place now?  Who is happiest--he revelling in
 the luxuries of Unyanyembe, or I, standing on the summit of this
 mountain, looking down with glad eyes and proud heart on the
 Tanganika?

 We are descending the western slope of the mountain, with the
 valley of the Liuche before us.  Something like an hour before
 noon we have gained the thick matete brake, which grows on both
 banks of the river; we wade through the clear stream, arrive on
 the other side, emerge out of the brake, and the gardens of the
 Wajiji are around us--a perfect marvel of vegetable wealth.
 Details escape my hasty and partial observation.  I am almost
 overpowered with my own emotions.  I notice the graceful palms,
 neat plots, green with vegetable plants, and small villages
 surrounded with frail fences of the matete-cane.

 We push on rapidly, lest the news of our coming might reach the
 people of Ujiji before we come in sight, and are ready for them.
 We halt at a little brook, then ascend the long slope of a naked
 ridge, the very last of the myriads we have crossed.  This alone
 prevents us from seeing the lake in all its vastness.  We arrive
 at the summit, travel across and arrive at its western rim, and--
 pause, reader--the port of Ujiji is below us, embowered in the
 palms, only five hundred yards from us!

 "Unfurl the flags, and load your guns!"

 "We will, master, we will, master!" respond the men eagerly.

 "One, two, three,--fire!"

 A volley from nearly fifty guns roars like a salute from a
 battery of artillery : we shall note its effect presently on
 the peaceful-looking village below.

 "Now, kirangozi, hold the white man's flag up high, and let the
 Zanzibar flag bring up the rear.  And you men keep close together,
 and keep firing until we halt in the market-place, or before the
 white man's house.  You have said to me often that you could smell
 the fish of the Tanganika--I can smell the fish of the Tanganika
 now.  There are fish, and beer, and a long rest waiting for you.
 MARCH!"

 Before we had gone a hundred yards our repeated volleys had the
 effect desired.  We had awakened Ujiji to the knowledge that a
 caravan was coming, and the people were witnessed rushing up in
 hundreds to meet us.  The mere sight of the flags informed every
 one immediately that we were a caravan, but the American flag
 borne aloft by gigantic Asmani, whose face was one vast smile on
 this day, rather staggered them at first.  However, many of the
 people who now approached us, remembered the flag.  They had seen
 it float above the American Consulate, and from the mast-head of
 many a ship in the harbor of Zanzibar, and they were soon heard
 welcoming the beautiful flag with cries of "Bindera Kisungu!"--a
 white man's flag!  "Bindera Merikani!"--the American flag!

 Then we were surrounded by them: by Wajiji, Wanyamwezi, Wangwana,
 Warundi, Waguhha, Wamanyuema, and Arabs, and were almost
 deafened with the shouts of "Yambo, yambo, bana!  Yambo, bana!
 Yambo, bana!" To all and each of my men the welcome was given.

 We were now about three hundred yards from the village of Ujiji,
 and the crowds are dense about me.

 "Good morning, sir," said another voice.

 "Hallo," said I, "is this another one?"

 "Yes, sir."

 "Well, what is your name?"

 "My name is Chumah, sir."

 "What! are you Chumah, the friend of Wekotani?"

 "Yes, sir."

 "And is the-Doctor well?"

 " Not very well, sir."

 "Where has he been so long?"

 "In Manyuema."

 "Now, you Susi, run, and tell the Doctor I am coming."

 "Yes, sir," and off he darted like a madman.

 But by this time we were within two hundred yards of the village,
 and the multitude was getting denser, and almost preventing our
 march.  Flags and streamers were out; Arabs and Wangwana were
 pushing their way through the natives in order to greet us, for
 according to their account, we belonged to them.  But the great
 wonder of all was, "How did you come from Unyanyembe?"

 Soon Susi came running back, and asked me my name; he had told
 the Doctor I was coming, but the Doctor was too surprised to believe
 him, and when the Doctor asked him my name, Susi was rather staggered.

 But, during Susi's absence, the news had been conveyed to the
 Doctor that it was surely a white man that was coming, whose guns
 were firing, and whose flag could be seen; and the great Arab
 magnates of Ujiji--Mohammed bin Sali, Sayd bin Majid, Abid bin
 Suliman, Mohammed bin Gharib, and others--had gathered together
 before the Doctor's house, and the Doctor had come out from his
 veranda to discuss the matter and await my arrival.

 In the meantime, the head of the Expedition had halted, and the
 kirangozi was out of the ranks, holding his flag aloft, and Selim
 said to me, "I see the Doctor, sir.  Oh, what an old man!  He has
 got a white beard."  And I--what would I not have given for a bit
 of friendly wilderness, where, unseen, I might vent my joy in some
 mad freak, such as idiotically biting my hand; turning a somersault,
 or slashing at trees, in order to allay those exciting feelings
 that were well-nigh uncontrollable.

 So I did that which I thought was most dignified.  I pushed back
 the crowds, and, passing from the rear, walked down a living avenue
 of people, until I came in front of the semicircle of Arabs, before
 which stood the "white man with the grey beard."

 I turned to the Arabs, took off my hat to them in response to the
 saluting chorus of "Yambos" I received, and the Doctor introduced
 them to me by name.  Then, oblivious of the crowds, oblivious of
 the men who shared with me my dangers, we--Livingstone and I--
 turned our faces towards his house.  He pointed to the veranda,
 or rather, mud platform, under the broad overhanging eaves; he
 pointed to his own particular seat, which I saw his age and
 experience in Africa had suggested, namely, a straw mat, with a
 goatskin over it, and another skin nailed against the wall to
 protect his back from contact with the cold mud.  I protested
 against taking this seat, which so much more befitted him than I,
 but the Doctor would not yield: I must take it.

 We were seated--the Doctor and I--with our backs to the wall.
 The Arabs took seats on our left.  More than a thousand natives
 were in our front, filling the whole square densely, indulging
 their curiosity, and discussing the fact of two white men meeting
 at Ujiji--one just come from Manyuema, in the west, the other from
 Unyanyembe, in the east.

 Conversation began.  What about?  I declare I have forgotten.
 Oh! we mutually asked questions of one another, such as
 "How did you come here?" and "Where have you been all this long
 time?--the world has believed you to be dead.

 The Arabs rose up, with a delicacy I approved, as if they intuitively
 knew that we ought to be left to ourselves.  I sent Bombay with them
 to give them the news they also wanted so much to know about the
 affairs at Unyanyembe.  Sayd bin Majid was the father of the gallant
 young man whom I saw at Masangi, and who fought with me at Zimbizo,
 and who soon afterwards was killed by Mirambo's Ruga-Ruga in the
 forest of Wilyankuru; and, knowing that I had been there, he
 earnestly desired to hear the tale of the fight; but they had all
 friends at Unyanyembe, and it was but natural that they should be
 anxious to hear of what concerned them.

 After giving orders to Bombay and Asmani for the provisioning of
 the men of the Expedition, I called "Kaif-Halek," or "How-do-ye-do,"
 and introduced him to Dr. Livingstone as one of the soldiers in
 charge of certain goods left at Unyanyembe, whom I had compelled
 to accompany me to Ujiji, that he might deliver in person to his
 master the letter-bag with which he had been entrusted.  This was
 that famous letter-bag marked "Nov. 1st, 1870," which was now
 delivered into the Doctor's hands 365 days after it left Zanzibar!
 How long, I wonder, had it remained at Unyanyembe had I not been
 despatched into Central Africa in search of the great traveller?

 The Doctor kept the letter-bag on his knee, then, presently, opened
 it, looked at the letters contained there, and read one or two of
 his children's letters, his face in the meanwhile lighting up.

 He asked me to tell him the news.  "No, Doctor," said I, "read your
 letters first, which I am sure you must be impatient to read."

 "Ah," said he, "I have waited years for letters, and I have been
 taught patience.  I can surely afford to wait a few hours longer.
 No, tell me the general news: how is the world getting along?

 "You probably know much already.  Do you know that the Suez Canal
 is a fact--is opened, and a regular trade carried on between Europe
 and India through it?"

 "I did not hear about the opening of it.  Well, that is grand news!
 What else?"

 Shortly I found myself enacting the part of an annual periodical
 to him.  There was no need of exaggeration of any penny-a-line
 news, or of any sensationalism.  The world had witnessed and
 experienced much the last few years.  The Pacific Railroad had been
 completed <1869>; Grant had been elected President of the United States;
 Egypt had been flooded with savans: the Cretan rebellion had
 terminated <1866-1868>; a Spanish revolution had driven Isabella
 from the throne of Spain, and a Regent had been appointed: General
 Prim was assassinated; a Castelar had electrified Europe with his
 advanced ideas upon the liberty of worship; Prussia had humbled Denmark,
 and annexed Schleswig-Holstein <1864>, and her armies were now around
 Paris; the "Man of Destiny" was a prisoner at Wilhelmshohe;
 the Queen of Fashion and the Empress of the French was a fugitive;
 and the child born in the purple had lost for ever the Imperial
 crown intended for his head; the Napoleon dynasty was extinguished
 by the Prussians, Bismarck and Von Moltke; and France, the proud
 empire, was humbled to the dust.

 What could a man have exaggerated of these facts?  What a budget
 of news it was to one who had emerged from the depths of the
 primeval forests of Manyuema!  The reflection of the dazzling
 light of civilisation was cast on him while Livingstone was thus
 listening in wonder to one of the most exciting pages of history
 ever repeated.  How the puny deeds of barbarism paled before
 these!  Who could tell under what new phases of uneasy life Europe
 was labouring even then, while we, two of her lonely children,
 rehearsed the tale of her late woes and glories?  More worthily,
 perhaps, had the tongue of a lyric Demodocus recounted them; but,
 in the absence of the poet, the newspaper correspondent performed
 his part as well and truthfully as he could.

 Not long after the Arabs had departed, a dishful of hot hashed-meat
 cakes was sent to us by Sayd bin Majid, and a curried chicken was
 received from Mohammed bin Sali, and Moeni Kheri sent a dishful of
 stewed goat-meat and rice; and thus presents of food came in
 succession, and as fast as they were brought we set to.  I had a
 healthy, stubborn digestion--the exercise I had taken had put it in
 prime order; but Livingstone--he had been complaining that he had
 no appetite, that his stomach refused everything but a cup of tea
 now and then--he ate also--ate like a vigorous, hungry man; and,
 as he vied with me in demolishing the pancakes, he kept repeating,
 "You have brought me new life.  You have brought me new life."

 "Oh, by George!" I said, "I have forgotten something.  Hasten,
 Selim, and bring that bottle; you know which and bring me the silver
 goblets.  I brought this bottle on purpose for this event, which
 I hoped would come to pass, though often it seemed useless to expect
 it."

 Selim knew where the bottle was, and he soon returned with it--a
 bottle of Sillery champagne; and, handing the Doctor a silver
 goblet brimful of the exhilarating wine, and pouring a small
 quantity into my own, I said,

 "Dr. Livingstone, to your very good health, sir."

 "And to yours!" he responded, smilingly.

 And the champagne I had treasured for this happy meeting was drunk
 with hearty good wishes to each other.

 But we kept on talking and talking, and prepared food was being
 brought to us all that afternoon; and we kept on eating each time
 it was brought, until I had eaten even to repletion, and the Doctor
 was obliged to confess that he had eaten enough.  Still, Halimah,
 the female cook of the Doctor's establishment, was in a state of
 the greatest excitement.  She had been protruding her head out of
 the cookhouse to make sure that there were really two white men
 sitting down in the veranda, when there used to be only one, who
 would not, because he could not, eat anything; and she had been
 considerably exercised in her mind about this fact.  She was
 afraid the Doctor did not properly appreciate her culinary
 abilities; but now she was amazed at the extraordinary quantity
 of food eaten, and she was in a state of delightful excitement.
 We could hear her tongue rolling off a tremendous volume of
 clatter to the wondering crowds who halted before the kitchen
 to hear the current of news with which she edified them.  Poor,
 faithful soul!  While we listened to the noise of her furious
 gossip, the Doctor related her faithful services, and the
 terrible anxiety she evinced when the guns first announced
 the  arrival of another white man in Ujiji; how she had been
 flying about in a state cf the utmost excitement, from the kitchen
 into his presence, and out again into the square, asking all sorts
 of questions; how she was in despair at the scantiness of the
 general larder and treasury of the strange household; how she
 was anxious to make up for their poverty by a grand appearance--
 to make up a sort of Barmecide feast to welcome the white man.
 "Why," said she, "is he not one of us?  Does he not bring plenty
 of cloth and beads?  Talk about the Arabs!  Who are they that
 they should be compared to white men?  Arabs, indeed!"

 The Doctor and I conversed upon many things, especially upon his
 own immediate troubles, and his disappointments, upon his arrival
 in Ujiji, when told that all his goods had been sold, and he was
 reduced to poverty.  He had but twenty cloths or so left of the
 stock he had deposited with the man called Sherif, the half-caste
 drunken tailor, who was sent by the Consul in charge of the goods.
 Besides which he had been suffering from an attack of dysentery,
 and his condition was most deplorable.  He was but little improved
 on this day, though he had eaten well, and already began to feel
 stronger and better.

 This day, like all others, though big with happiness to me, at last
 was fading away.  While sitting with our faces looking to the east,
 as Livingstone had been sitting for days preceding my arrival, we
 noted the dark shadows which crept up above the grove of palms
 beyond the village, and above the rampart of mountains which we had
 crossed that day, now looming through the fast approaching
 darkness; and we listened, with our hearts full of gratitude to
 the Great Giver of Good and Dispenser of all Happiness, to the
 sonorous thunder of the surf of the Tanganika, and to the chorus
 which the night insects sang.  Hours passed, and we were still
 sitting there with our minds busy upon the day's remarkable events,
 when I remembered that the traveller had not yet read his letters.

 "Doctor," I said, "you had better read your letters.  I will not
 keep you up any longer."

 "Yes," he answered, "it is getting late; and I will go and read
 my friends' letters.  Good-night, and God bless you."

 "Good-night, my dear Doctor; and let me hope that your news will
 be such as you desire."

 I have now related, by means of my Diary, "How I found Livingstone,"
 as recorded on the evening of that great day.  I have been averse
 to reduce it by process of excision and suppression, into a mere
 cold narrative, because, by so doing, I would be unable to record
 what feelings swayed each member of the Expedition as well as myself
 during the days preceding the discovery of the lost traveller, and
 more especially the day it was the good fortune of both Livingstone
 and myself to clasp each other's hands in the strong friendship
 which was born in that hour we thus strangely met.  The aged
 traveller, though cruelly belied, contrary to all previous expectation,
 received me as a friend; and the cordial warmth with which he accepted
 my greeting; the courtesy with which he tendered to me a shelter
 in his own house; the simple candour of his conversation; graced
 by unusual modesty of manner, and meekness of spirit, wrought in me
 such a violent reaction in his favor, that when the parting
 "good-night" was uttered, I felt a momentary vague fear lest the
 fulness of joy which I experienced that evening would be diminished
 by some envious fate, before the morrow's sun should rise above Ujiji.

 CHAPTER XII.   INTERCOURSE WITH LIVINGSTONE AT UJIJI--
LIVINGSTONE'S OWN STORY OF HIS JOURNEYS,
HIS TROUBLES, AND DISAPPOINTMENTS.  All my good is magnetic, and I educate
 not by lessons, but by going about my business."--Emerson's
 'Representative Men'.

 I woke up early next morning with a sudden start.  The room was
 strange!  It was a house, and not my tent!  Ah, yes! I recollected
 I had discovered Livingstone, and I was in his house.  I listened,
 that the knowledge dawning on me might be confirmed by the sound
 of his voice.  I heard nothing but the sullen roar of the surf.

 I lay quietly in bed.  Bed!  Yes, it was a primitive four-poster,
 with the leaves of the palm-tree spread upon it instead of down,
 and horsehair and my bearskin spread over this serving me in place
 of linen.  I began to put myself under rigid mental cross-examination,
and to an analyzation of my position.

"What was I sent for?"

"To find Livingstone."

"Have you found him?"

"Yes, of course; am I not in his house?  Whose compass is that hanging on a peg there?  Whose
clothes, whose boots, are those? Who reads those newspapers, those 'Saturday  Reviews' and
numbers of 'Punch' lying on the floor?"

"Well, what are you going to do now?"

"I shall tell him this morning who sent me, and what brought me here.  I will then ask him
to write a letter to Mr. Bennett, and to give what news he can spare.  I did not come here
to rob him of his news.  Sufficient for me is it that I have found him.  It is a complete success
so far.  But it will be a greater one if he gives me letters for Mr. Bennett, and an acknowledgment
that he has seen me."

"Do you think he will do so?"

"Why not?  I have come here to do him a service.  He has no goods. I have.  He has no men with
him.  I have.  If I do a friendly part by  him, will he not do a friendly part by me?  What
says the poet?--

         Nor hope to find
A friend, but who has found a friend in thee.
All like the purchase; few the price will pay
And this makes friends such wonders here below.

I have paid the purchase, by coming so far to do him a service. But I think, from what I have
seen of him last night, that he is not such a niggard and misanthrope as I was led to believe.
He exhibited considerable emotion, despite the monosyllabic greeting, when he shook my hand.
If he were a man to feel annoyance at any person coming after him, he would not have received
me as he did, nor would he ask me to live with him, but he would have surlily refused to see
me, and told me to mind my own business.  Neither does he mind my nationality; for 'here,'
said he, 'Americans and Englishmen are the same people.  We speak the same language and have
the same ideas.' Just so, Doctor; I agree with you.  Here at least, Americans and Englishmen
shall be brothers, and, whatever I can do for you, you may command me freely."

I dressed myself quietly, intending to take a stroll along the Tanganika before the Doctor
should rise; opened the door, which creaked horribly  on its hinges, and walked out to the veranda.

"Halloa, Doctor!--you up already?  I hope you have slept well? "

"Good-morning, Mr. Stanley!  I am glad to see you.  I hope you rested well.  I sat up late
reading my  letters.  You have brought me good and bad news.  But sit down.  "He made a place
for me by his side.  "Yes, many of my  friends are dead.  My eldest son has met with a sad
accident--that is, my boy Tom; my second son, Oswell, is at college studying medicine, and
is doing well I am told.  Agnes, my eldest daughter, has been enjoying herself in a yacht,
with `Sir Paraffine'  Young and his family.  Sir Roderick, also, is well, and expresses a hope
that he will soon see me.  You have brought me quite a budget."

The man was not an apparition, then, and yesterday's scenes were not the result of a dream!
and I gazed on him intently, for thus I was assured he had not run away, which was the great
fear that constantly haunted me as I was journeying to Ujiji.

"Now, Doctor," said I, "you are, probably, wondering why I came here?"

"It is true," said he; "I have been wondering.  I thought you, at first, an emissary of the
French Government, in the place of Lieutenant Le Saint, who died a few miles above Gondokoro.
I heard you had boats, plenty of men, and stores, and I really believed you were some French
officer, until I saw the American flag; and, to tell you the truth, I was rather glad it was
so, because I could not have talked to him in French; and if he did not know English, we had
been a pretty pair of white men in Ujiji!  I did not like to ask you yesterday, because I thought
it was none of my business."

Well," said I, laughing, "for your sake I am glad that I am an American, and not a Frenchman,
and that we can understand each other perfectly without an interpreter.  I see that the Arabs
are wondering that you, an Englishman, and I, an American, understand each other.  We must
take care not to tell them that the English and Americans have fought, and that there are `Alabama'
claims left unsettled, and that we have such people as Fenians in America, who hate you.  But,
seriously, Doctor--now don't be frightened when I tell you that I have come after--YOU!"

"After me?"

"Yes."

"How?"

"Well.  You have heard of the `New York Herald?'"

"Oh--who has not heard of that newspaper?"

"Without his father's knowledge or consent, Mr. James Gordon Bennett, son of Mr. James Gordon
Bennett, the proprietor of the `Herald,' has commissioned me to find you--to get whatever news
of your discoveries you like to give--and to assist you, if I can, with means."

"Young Mr. Bennett told you to come after me, to find me out, and help me!  It is no wonder,
then, you praised Mr. Bennett so much last night."

"I know him--I am proud to say--to be just what I say he is. He is an ardent, generous, and
true man."

"Well, indeed!  I am very much obliged to him; and it makes me feel proud to think that you
Americans think so much of me.  You have just come in the proper time; for I was beginning
to think that I should have to beg from the Arabs.  Even they are in want of cloth, and there
are but few beads in Ujiji.  That fellow Sherif has robbed me of all.  I wish I could embody
my thanks to Mr. Bennett in suitable words; but if I fail to do so, do not, I beg of you, believe
me the less grateful."

"And now, Doctor, having disposed of this little affair, Ferajji shall bring breakfast; if
you have no objection."

"You have given me an appetite," he said.

"Halimah is my cook, but she never can tell the difference between tea and coffee."

Ferajji, the cook, was ready as usual with excellent tea, and a dish of smoking cakes; "dampers,"
as the Doctor called them.  I never did care much for this kind of a cake fried in a pan, but
they were necessary to the Doctor, who had nearly lost all his teeth from the hard fare of
Lunda.  He had been compelled to subsist on green ears of Indian corn; there was no meat in
that district; and the effort to gnaw at the corn ears had loosened all his teeth.  I preferred
the corn scones of Virginia, which, to my mind, were the nearest approach to palatable bread
obtainable in Central Africa.

The Doctor said he had thought me a most luxurious and rich man, when he saw my great bath-tub
carried on the shoulders of one of my men; but he thought me still more luxurious this morning,
when my knives and forks, and plates, and cups, saucers, silver spoons, and silver teapot were
brought forth shining and bright, spread on a rich Persian carpet, and observed that I was
well attended to by my yellow and ebon Mercuries.

This was the beginning of our life at Ujiji.  I knew him not as a friend before my arrival.
He was only an object to me--a great item for a daily newspaper, as much as other subjects
in which the voracious news-loving public delight in.  I had gone over battlefields, witnessed
revolutions, civil wars, rebellions, emeutes and massacres; stood close to the condemned murderer
to record his last struggles and last sighs; but never had I been called to record anything
that moved me so much as this man's woes and sufferings, his privations and disappointments,
which now were poured into my ear.  Verily did I begin to perceive that "the Gods above do
with just eyes survey the affairs of men."  I began to recognize the hand of an overruling
and kindly Providence.

The following are singular facts worthy for reflection.  I was, commissioned for the duty of
discovering Livingstone sometime in October, 1869.  Mr. Bennett was ready with the money, and
I was ready for the journey.  But, observe, reader, that I did not proceed directly upon the
search mission.  I had many tasks to fulfil before proceeding with it, and many thousand miles
to travel over.  Supposing that I had gone direct to Zanzibar from Paris, seven or eight months
afterwards, perhaps, I should have found myself at Ujiji, but Livingstone would not have been
found there then; he was on the Lualaba; and I should have had to follow him on his devious
tracks through the primeval forests of Manyuema, and up along the crooked course of the Lualaba
for hundreds of miles.  The time taken by me in travelling up the Nile, back to Jerusalem,
then to Constantinople, Southern Russia, the Caucasus, and Persia, was employed by Livingstone
in fruitful discoveries west of the Tanganika.  Again, consider that I arrived at Unyanyembe
in the latter part of June, and that owing to a war I was delayed three months at Unyanyembe,
leading a fretful, peevish and impatient life.  But while I was thus fretting myself, and being
delayed by a series of accidents, Livingstone was being forced back to Ujiji in the same month.
It took him from June to October to march to Ujiji.  Now, in September, I broke loose from
the thraldom which accident had imposed on me, and hurried southward to Ukonongo, then westward
to Kawendi, then northward to Uvinza, then westward to Ujiji, only about three weeks after
the Doctor's arrival, to find him resting under the veranda of his house with his face turned
eastward, the direction from which I was coming. Had I gone direct from Paris on the search
I might have lost him; had I been enabled to have gone direct to Ujiji from Unyanyembe I might
have lost him.

The days came and went peacefully and happily, under the palms of Ujiji.  My companion was
improving in health and spirits.  Life had been brought back to him; his fading vitality was
restored, his enthusiasm for his work was growing up again into a height that was compelling
him to desire to be up and doing.  But what could he do, with five men and fifteen or twenty
cloths?

"Have you seen the northern head of the Tangannka, Doctor?" I asked one day.

"No; I did try to go there, but the Wajiji were doing their best to fleece me, as they did
both Burton and Speke, and I had not a great deal of cloth.  If I had gone to the head of the
Tanganika, I could not have gone, to Manyuema.  The central line of drainage was the most important,
and that is the Lualaba.  Before this line the question whether there is a connection between
the Tanganika and the Albert N'Yanza sinks into insignificance.  The great line of drainage
is the river flowing from latitude 11 degrees south, which I followed for over seven degrees
northward.  The Chambezi, the name given to its most southern extremity, drains a large tract
of country south of the southernmost source of the Tanganika; it must, therefore, be the most
important.  I have not the least doubt, myself, but that this lake is the Upper Tanganika,
and the Albert N'Yanza of Baker is the Lower Tanganika, which are connected by a river flowing
from the upper to the lower.  This is my belief, based upon reports of the Arabs, and a test
I made of the flow with water-plants.  But I really never gave it much thought."

"Well, if I were you, Doctor, before leaving Ujiji, I should explore it, and resolve the doubts
upon the subject; lest, after you leave here, you should not return by this way. The Royal
Geographical Society attach much importance to this supposed connection, and declare you are
the only man who can settle it.  If I can be of any service to you, you may command me.  Though
I did not come to Africa as an explorer, I have a good deal of curiosity upon the subject,
and should be willing to accompany you.  I have with me about twenty men who understand rowing
we have plenty of guns, cloth, and beads; and if we can get a canoe from the Arabs we can manage
the thing easily."

"Oh, we can get a canoe from Sayd bin Majid.  This man has been very kind to me, and if ever
there was an Arab gentleman, he is one."

"Then it is settled, is it, that we go?"

"I am ready, whenever you are."

"I am at your command.  Don't you hear my men call you the `Great Master,' and me the `Little
Master?' It would never do for the `Little Master' to command."  I simply write down my own
opinion of the man as I have seen him, not as he represents himself; as I know him to be, not
as I have heard of him.  I lived with him from the 10th November, 1871, to the 14th March,
1872; witnessed his conduct in the camp, and on the march, and my feelings for him are those
of unqualified admiration.  The camp is the best place to discover a man's weaknesses, where,
if he is flighty or wrong-headed, he is sure to develop his hobbies and weak side. I think
it possible, however, that Livingstone, with an unsuitable companion, might feel annoyance.
I know I should do so very readily, if a man's character was of that oblique nature that it
was an impossibility to travel in his company. I have seen men, in whose company I felt nothing
but a thraldom, which it was a duty to my own self-respect to cast off as soon as possible;
a feeling of utter incompatibility, with whose nature mine could never assimilate.  But Livingstone
was a character that I venerated, that called forth all my enthusiasm, that evoked nothing
but sincerest admiration.

Dr. Livingstone is about sixty years old, though after he was restored to health he appeared
more like a man who had not passed his fiftieth year.  His hair has a brownish colour yet,
but is here and there streaked with grey lines over the temples; his whiskers and moustache
are very grey.  He shaves his chin daily.  I must also beg leave to correct the gentleman who
informed me that Livingstone takes no notes or observations.  The huge Letts's Diary which
I carried home to his daughter is full of notes, and there are no less than a score of sheets
within it filled with observations which he took during the last trip he made to Manyuema alone;
and in the middle of the book there is sheet after sheet, column after column, carefully written,
of figures alone. A large letter which I received from him has been sent to Sir Thomas MacLear,
and this contains nothing but observations. During the four months I was with him, I noticed
him every evening making most careful notes; and a large tin box that he has with him contains
numbers of field note-books, the contents of which I dare say will see the light some time.
His maps also evince great care and industry.

The wan features which had shocked me at first meeting, the heavy step which told of age and
hard travel, the grey beard and bowed shoulders, belied the man.  Underneath that well-worn
exterior lay an endless fund of high spirits and inexhaustible humour; that rugged frame of
his enclosed a young and most exuberant soul. Every day I heard innumerable jokes and pleasant
anecdotes; interesting hunting stories, in which his friends Oswell, Webb, Vardon, and Gorden
Cumming were almost always the chief actors. I was not sure, at first, but this joviality,
humour, and abundant animal spirits were the result of a joyous hysteria; but as I found they
continued while I was with him, I am obliged to think them natural.  The reason of this may
be found, perhaps, in the fact, that he has lived all his life almost, we may say, within himself.
Zimmerman, a great student of human nature, says on this subject "The unencumbered mind recalls
all that it has read, all that pleased the eye, and delighted the ear; and reflecting on every
idea which either observation, or experience, or discourse has produced, gains new information
by every reflection.  The intellect contemplates all the former scenes of life; views by anticipation
those that are yet to come; and blends all ideas of past and future in the actual enjoyment
of the present moment."  He has lived in a world which revolved inwardly, out of which he seldom
awoke except to attend to the immediate practical necessities of himself and people; then relapsed
again into the same happy inner world, which he must have peopled with his own friends, relations,
acquaintances, familiar readings, ideas, and associations; so that wherever he might be, or
by whatsoever he was surrounded, his own world always possessed more attractions to his cultured
mind than were yielded by external circumstances.

The study of Dr. Livingstone would not be complete if we did not take the religious side of
his character into consideration.

In Livingstone I have seen many amiable traits.

But you may take any point in Dr. Livingstone's character, and analyse it carefully, and I
would challenge any man to find a fault in it.  He is sensitive, I know; but so is any man
of a high mind and generous nature.  He is sensitive on the point of being doubted or being
criticised.  An extreme love of truth is one of his strongest characteristics, which proves
him to be a man of strictest principles, and conscientious scruples; being such, he is naturally
sensitive, and shrinks from any attacks on the integrity of his observations, and the accuracy
of his reports. He is conscious of having laboured in the course of geography and science with
zeal and industry, to have been painstaking, and as exact as circumstances would allow.  Ordinary
critics seldom take into consideration circumstances, but, utterly regardless of the labor
expended in obtaining the least amount of geographical information in a new land, environed
by inconceivable dangers and difficulties, such as Central Africa presents, they seem to take
delight in rending to tatters, and reducing to nil, the fruits of long years of labor, by sharply-pointed
shafts of ridicule and sneers.

Livingstone no doubt may be mistaken in some of his conclusions about certain points in the
geography of Central Africa, but he is not so dogmatic and positive a man as to refuse conviction.
He certainly demands, when arguments in contra are used in opposition to him, higher authority
than abstract theory.  His whole life is a testimony against its unreliability, and his entire
labor of years were in vain if theory can be taken in evidence against personal observation
and patient investigation.

The reluctance he manifests to entertain suppositions, possibilities regarding the nature,
form, configuration of concrete immutable matter like the earth, arises from the fact, that
a man who commits himself to theories about such an untheoretical subject as Central Africa
is deterred from bestirring himself to prove them by the test of exploration.  His opinion
of such a man is, that he unfits himself for his duty, that he is very likely to become a slave
to theory--a voluptuous fancy, which would master him.

It is his firm belief, that a man who rests his sole knowledge of the geography of Africa on
theory, deserves to be discredited.  It has been the fear of being discredited and criticised
and so made to appear before the world as a man who spent so many valuable years in Africa
for the sake of burdening the geographical mind with theory that has detained him so long in
Africa, doing his utmost to test the value of the main theory which clung to him, and would
cling to him until he proved or disproved it.

This main theory is his belief that in the broad and mighty Lualaba he has discovered the head
waters of the Nile.  His grounds for believing this are of such nature and weight as to compel
him to despise the warning that years are advancing on him, and his former iron constitution
is failing.  He believes his speculations on this point will be verified; he believes he is
strong enough to pursue his explorations until he can return to his country, with the announcement
that the Lualaba is none other than the Nile.

On discovering that the insignificant stream called the Chambezi, which rises between 10 degrees
S. and 12 degrees S., flowed westerly, and then northerly through several lakes, now under
the names of the Chambezi, then as the Luapula, and then as the Lualaba, and that it still
continued its flow towards the north for over 7 degrees, Livingstone became firmly of the opinion
that the river whose current he followed was the Egyptian Nile.  Failing at lat. 4 degrees
S. to pursue his explorations further without additional supplies, he determined to return
to Ujiji to obtain them.

And now, having obtained them, he intends to return to the point where he left off work.  He
means to follow that great river until it is firmly established what name shall eventually
be given the noble water-way whose course he has followed through so many sick toilings and
difficulties.  To all entreaties to come home, to all the glowing temptations which home and
innumerable friends offer, he returns the determined answer:--

"No; not until my work is ended."

I have often heard our servants discuss our respective merits. "Your master," say my servants
to Livingstone's, "is a good man-- a very good man; he does not beat you, for he has a kind
heart; but ours--oh! he is sharp--hot as fire"--"mkali sana, kana moto."

There is another point in Livingstone's character about which readers of his books, and students
of his travels, would like to know, and that is his ability to withstand the dreadful climate
of Central Africa, and the consistent energy with which he follows up his explorations.  A
drunkard and a man of vicious habits could never have withstood the climate of Central Africa.

The second day after my arrival in Ujiji I asked the Doctor if he did not feel a desire, sometimes,
to visit his country, and take a little rest after his six years' explorations; and the answer
he gave me fully reveals the man.  Said he:

"I should like very much to go home and see my children once again, but I cannot bring my heart
to abandon the task I have undertaken, when it is so nearly completed.  It only requires six
or seven months more to trace the true source that I have discovered with Petherick's branch
of the White Nile, or with the Albert N'Yanza of Sir Samuel Baker, which is the lake called
by the natives `Chowambe.'  Why should I go home before my task is ended, to have to come back
again to do what I can very well do now?"

"And why?" I asked, "did you come so far back without finishing the task which you say you
have got to do?"

"Simply because I was forced.  My men would not budge a step forward.  They mutinied, and formed
a secret resolution--if I still insisted upon going on--to raise a disturbance in the country,
and after they had effected it to abandon me; in which case I should have been killed.  It
was dangerous to go any further.  I had explored six hundred miles of the watershed, had traced
all the principal streams which discharge their waters into the central line of drainage, but
when about starting to explore the last hundred miles the hearts of my people failed them,
and they set about frustrating me in every possible way.  Now, having returned seven hundred
miles to get a new supply of stores, and another escort, I find myself destitute of even the
means to live but for a few weeks, and sick in mind and body."

Here I may pause to ask any brave man how he would have comported himself in such a crisis.
Many would have been in exceeding hurry to get home to tell the news of the continued explorations
and discoveries, and to relieve the anxiety of the sorrowing family and friends awaiting their
return.  Enough surely had been accomplished towards the solution of the problem that had exercised
the minds of his scientific associates of the Royal Geograpical Society.  It was no negative
exploration, it was hard, earnest labor of years, self-abnegation, enduring patience, and exalted
fortitude, such as ordinary men fail to exhibit.

Suppose Livingstone had hurried to the coast after he had discovered Lake Bangweolo, to tell
the news to the geographical world; then had returned to discover Moero, and run away again;
then went back once more only to discover Kamolondo, and to race back again.  This would not
be in accordance with Livingstone's character.  He must not only discover the Chambezi, Lake
Bangweolo, Luapula River, Lake Moero, Lualaba River, and Lake Kamolondo, but he must still
tirelessly urge his steps forward to put the final completion to the grand lacustrine river
system.  Had he followed the example of ordinary explorers, he would have been running backwards
and forwards to tell the news, instead of exploring; and he might have been able to write a
volume upon the discovery of each lake, and earn much money thereby.  They are no few months'
explorations that form the contents of his books. His `Missionary Travels' embraces a period
of sixteen years; his book on the Zambezi, five years; and if the great traveller lives to
come home, his third book, the grandest of all, must contain the records of eight or nine years.
To men differently constituted, a long residence amongst the savages of Africa would be contemplated
with horror, yet Livingstone's mind can find pleasure and food for philosophic studies.  The
wonders of primeval nature, the great forests and sublime mountains, the perennial streams
and sources of the great lakes, the marvels of the earth, the splendors of the tropic sky by
day and by night-- all terrestrial and celestial phenomena are manna to a man of such self-abnegation
and devoted philanthropic spirit.  He can be charmed with the primitive simplicity of Ethiop's
dusky children, with whom he has spent so many years of his life; he has a sturdy faith in
their capabilities; sees virtue in them where others see nothing but savagery; and wherever
he has gone among them, he has sought to elevate a people that were apparently forgotten of
God and Christian man.

One night I took out my note-book, and prepared to take down from his own lips what he had
to say about his travels; and unhesitatingly he related his experiences, of which the following
is a summary:

Dr. David Livingstone left the Island of Zanzibar in March, 1866. On the 7th of the following
month he departed from Mikindany Bay for the interior, with an expedition consisting of twelve
Sepoys from Bombay, nine men from Johanna, of the Comoro Islands, seven liberated slaves, and
two Zambezi men, taking them as an experiment; six camels, three buffaloes, two mules, and
three donkeys.  He had thus thirty men with him, twelve of whom, viz., the Sepoys, were to
act as guards for the Expedition.  They were mostly armed with the Enfield rifles presented
to the Doctor by the Bombay Government.  The baggage of the expedition consisted of ten bales
of cloth and two bags of beads, which were to serve as the currency by which they would be
enabled to purchase the necessaries of life in the countries the Doctor intended to visit.
Besides the cumbrous moneys, they carried several boxes of instruments, such as chronometers,
air thermometers, sextant, and artificial horizon, boxes containing clothes, medicines, and
personal necessaries.  The expedition travelled up the left bank of the Rovuma River, a rout/e/
as full of difficulties as any that could be chosen.  For miles Livingstone and his party had
to cut their way with their axes through the dense and almost impenetrable jungles which lined
the river's banks. The road was a mere footpath, leading in the most erratic fashion into and
through the dense vegetation, seeking the easiest outlet from it without any regard to the
course it ran.  The pagazis were able to proceed easily enough; but the camels, on account
of their enormous height, could not advance a step without the axes of the party clearing the
way.  These tools of foresters were almost always required; but the advance of the expedition
was often retarded by the unwillingness of the Sepoys and Johanna men to work.

Soon after the departure of the expedition from the coast, the murmurings and complaints of
these men began, and upon every occasion and at every opportunity they evinced a decided hostility
to an advance.  In order to prevent the progress of the Doctor, and in hopes that it would
compel him to return to the coast, these men so cruelly treated the animals that before long
there was not one left alive.  But as this scheme failed, they set about instigating the natives
against the white men, whom they accused most wantonly of strange practices.  As this plan
was most likely to succeed, and as it was dangerous to have such men with him, the Doctor arrived
at the conclusion that it was best to discharge them, and accordingly sent the Sepoys back
to the coast; but not without having first furnished them with the means of subsistence on
their journey to the coast.  These men were such a disreputable set that the natives spoke
of them as the Doctor's slaves.  One of their worst sins was the custom of giving their guns
and ammunition to carry to the first woman or boy they met, whom they impressed for that purpose
by such threats or promises as they were totally unable to perform, and unwarranted in making.
An hour's marching was sufficient to fatigue them, after which they lay down on the road to
bewail their hard fate, and concoct new schemes to frustrate their leader's purposes.  Towards
night they generally made their appearance at the camping-ground with the looks of half-dead
men. Such men naturally made but a poor escort; for, had the party been attacked by a wandering
tribe of natives of any strength, the Doctor could have made no defence, and no other alternative
would have been left to him but to surrender and be ruined.

The Doctor and his little party arrived on the 18th July, 1866, at a village belonging to a
chief of the Wahiyou, situate eight days' march south of the Rovuma, and overlooking the watershed
of the Lake Nyassa.  The territory lying between the Rovuma River and this Wahiyou village
was an uninhabited wilderness, during the transit of which Livingstone and his expedition suffered
considerably from hunger and desertion of men.

Early in August, 1866, the Doctor came to the country of Mponda, a chief who dwelt near the
Lake Nyassa.  On the road thither, two of the liberated slaves deserted him.  Here also, Wekotani,
a protege of the Doctor, insisted upon his discharge, alleging as an excuse--an excuse which
the Doctor subsequently found to be untrue--that he had found his brother.  He also stated
that his family lived on the east side of the Nyassa Lake.  He further stated that Mponda's
favourite wife was his sister.  Perceiving that Wekotani was unwilling to go with him further,
the Doctor took him to Mponda, who now saw and heard of him for the first time, and, having
furnished the ungrateful boy with enough cloth and beads to keep him until his "big brother"
should call for him, left him with the chief, after first assuring himself that he would receive
honourable treatment from him.  The Doctor also gave Wekotanti writing-paper--as he could read
and write, being accomplishments acquired at Bombay, where he had been put to school--so that,
should he at any time feel disposed, he might write to his English friends, or to himself.
The Doctor further enjoined him not to join in any of the slave raids usually made by his countrymen,
the men of Nyassa, on their neighbours.  Upon finding that his application for a discharge
was successful, Wekotani endeavoured to induce Chumah, another protege of the Doctor's, and
a companion, or chum, of Wekotani, to leave the Doctor's service and proceed with him, promising,
as a bribe, a wife and plenty of pombe from his "big brother."  Chumah, upon referring the
matter to the Doctor, was advised not to go, as he (the Doctor) strongly suspected that Wekotani
wanted only to make him his slave.  Chumah wisely withdrew from his tempter.  From Mponda's,
the Doctor proceeded to the heel of the Nyassa, to the village of a Babisa chief, who required
medicine for a skin disease.  With his usual kindness, he stayed at this chief's village to
treat his malady.

While here, a half-caste Arab arrived from the western shore of the lake, and reported that
he had been plundered by a band of Mazitu, at a place which the Doctor and Musa, chief of the
Johanna men, were very well aware was at least 150 miles north-north-west of where they were
then stopping.  Musa, however, for his own reasons --which will appear presently--eagerly listened
to the Arab's tale, and gave full credence to it.  Having well digested its horrible details,
he came to the Doctor to give him the full benefit of what he had heard with such willing ears.
The traveller patiently listened to the narrative, which lost nothing of its portentous significance
through Musa's relation, and then asked Musa if he believed it.  "Yes," answered Musa, readily;
"he tell me true, true.  I ask him good, and he tell me true, true."  The Doctor, however,
said he did not believe it, for the Mazitu would not have been satisfied with merely plundering
a man, they would have murdered him; but suggested, in order to allay the fears of his Moslem
subordinate, that they should both proceed to the chief with whom they were staying, who, being
a sensible man, would be able to advise them as to the probability or improbability of the
tale being correct.  Together, they proceeded to the Babisa chief, who, when he had heard the
Arab's story, unhesitatingly denounced the Arab as a liar, and his story without the least
foundation in fact; giving as a reason that, if the Mazitu had been lately in that vicinity,
he should have heard of it soon enough.

But Musa broke out with "No, no, Doctor; no, no, no; I no want to go to Mazitu.  I no want
Mazitu to kill me.  I want to see my father, my mother, my child, in Johanna.  I want no Mazitu."
These are Musa's words ipsissima verba.

To which the Doctor replied, "I don't want the Mazitu to kill me either; but, as you are afraid
of them, I promise to go straight west until we get far past the beat of the Mazitu."

Musa was not satisfied, but kept moaning and sorrowing, saying, "If we had two hundred guns
with us I would go; but our small party of men they will attack by night, and kill all."

The Doctor repeated his promise, "But I will not go near them; I will go west."

As soon as he turned his face westward, Musa and the Johanna men ran away in a body.

The Doctor says, in commenting upon Musa's conduct, that he felt strongly tempted to shoot
Musa and another ringleader, but was, nevertheless, glad that he did not soil his hands with
their vile blood.  A day or two afterwards, another of his men--Simon Price by name--came to
the Doctor with the same tale about the Mazitu, but, compelled by the scant number of his people
to repress all such tendencies to desertion and faint-heartedness, the Doctor silenced him
at once, and sternly forbade him to utter the name of the Mazitu any more.

Had the natives not assisted him, he must have despaired of ever being able to penetrate the
wild and unexplored interior which he was now about to tread.  "Fortunately," as the Doctor
says with unction, "I was in a country now, after leaving the shores of Nyassa, which the foot
of the slave-trader has not trod; it was a new and virgin land, and of course, as I have always
found in such cases, the natives were really good and hospitable, and for very small portions
of cloth my baggage was conveyed from village to village by them."  In many other ways the
traveller, in his extremity, was kindly treated by the yet unsophisticated and innocent natives.

On leaving this hospitable region in the early part of December, 1866, the Doctor entered a
country where the Mazitu had exercised their customary marauding propensities.  The land was
swept clean of provisions and cattle, and the people had emigrated to other countries, beyond
the bounds of those ferocious plunderers. Again the Expedition was besieged by pinching hunger
from which they suffered; they had recourse to the wild fruits which some parts of the country
furnished.  At intervals the condition of the hard-pressed band was made worse by the heartless
desertion of some of its members, who more than once departed with the Doctor's personal kit,
changes of clothes, linen, &c.  With more or less misfortunes constantly dogging his footsteps,
he traversed in safety the countries of the Babisa, Bobemba, Barungu, Ba-ulungu, and Lunda.

In the country of Lunda lives the famous Cazembe, who was first made known to Europeans by
Dr. Lacerda, the Portuguese traveller. Cazembe is a most intelligent prince; he is a tall,
stalwart man, who wears a peculiar kind of dress, made of crimson print, in the form of a prodigious
kilt.  In this state dress, King Cazembe received Dr. Livingstone, surrounded by his chiefs
and body-guards. A chief, who had been deputed by the King and elders to discover all about
the white man, then stood up before the assembly, and in a loud voice gave the result of the
inquiry he had instituted. He had heard that the white man had come to look for waters, for
rivers, and seas; though he could not understand what the white man could want with such things,
he had no doubt that the object was good.  Then Cazembe asked what the Doctor proposed doing,
and where he thought of going.  The Doctor replied that he had thought of proceeding south,
as he had heard of lakes and rivers being in that direction.  Cazembe asked, "What can you
want to go there for?  The water is close here.  There is plenty of large water in this neighbourhood."
Before breaking up the assembly, Cazembe gave orders to let the white man go where he would
through his country undisturbed and unmolested.  He was the first Englishman he had seen, he
said, and he liked him.

Shortly after his introduction to the King, the Queen entered the large house, surrounded by
a body-guard of Amazons with spears. She was a fine, tall, handsome young woman, and evidently
thought she was about to make an impression upon the rustic white man, for she had clothed
herself after a most royal fashion, and was armed with a ponderous spear.  But her appearance--so
different from what the Doctor had imagined--caused him to laugh, which entirely spoiled the
effect intended; for the laugh of the Doctor was so contagious, that she herself was the first
to imitate it, and the Amazons, courtier-like, followed suit.  Much disconcerted by this, the
Queen ran back, followed by her obedient damsels--a retreat most undignified and unqueenlike,
compared with her majestic advent into the Doctor's presence.  But Livingstone will have much
to say about his reception at this court, and about this interesting King and Queen; and who
can so well relate the scenes he witnessed, and which belong exclusively to him, as he himself?

Soon after his arrival in the country of Lunda, or Londa, and before he had entered the district
ruled over by Cazembe, he had crossed a river called the Chambezi, which was quite an important
stream.  The similarity of the name with that large and noble river south, which will be for
ever connected with his name, misled Livingstone at that time, and he, accordingly, did not
pay to it the attention it deserved, believing that the Chambezi was but the head-waters of
the Zambezi, and consequently had no bearing or connection with the sources of the river of
Egypt, of which he was in search.  His fault was in relying too implicitly upon the correctness
of Portuguese information.  This error it cost him many months of tedious labour and travel
to rectify.

From the beginning of 1867--the time of his arrival at Cazembe's-- till the middle of March,
1869--the time of his arrival at Ujiji-- he was mostly engaged in correcting the errors and
misrepresentations of the Portuguese travellers.  The Portuguese, in speaking of the River
Chambezi, invariably spoke of it as "our own Zambezi,"-- that is, the Zambezi which flows through
the Portuguese possessions of the Mozambique.  "In going to Cazembe from Nyassa," said they,
"you will cross our own Zambezi."  Such positive and reiterated information--given not only
orally, but in their books and maps--was naturally confusing.  When the Doctor perceived that
what he saw and what they described were at variance, out of a sincere wish to be correct,
and lest he might have been mistaken himself, he started to retravel the ground he had travelled
before.  Over and over again he traversed the several countries watered by the several rivers
of the complicated water system, like an uneasy spirit.  Over and over again he asked the same
questions from the different peoples he met, until he was obliged to desist, lest they might
say, "The man is mad; he has got water on the brain!"

But his travels and tedious labours in Lunda and the adjacent countries have established beyond
doubt--first, that the Chambezi is a totally distinct river from the Zambezi of the Portuguese;
and, secondly, that the Chambezi, starting from about latitude 11 degrees south, is no other
than the most southerly feeder of the great Nile; thus giving that famous river a length of
over 2,000 miles of direct latitude; making it, second to the Mississippi, the longest river
in the world.  The real and true name of the Zambezi is Dombazi.  When Lacerda and his Portuguese
successors, coming to Cazembe, crossed the Chambezi, and heard its name, they very naturally
set it down as "our own Zambezi," and, without further inquiry, sketched it as running in that
direction.

During his researches in that region, so pregnant in discoveries, Livingstone came to a lake
lying north-east of Cazembe, which the natives call Liemba, from the country of that name which
bordered it on the east and south.  In tracing the lake north, he found it to be none other
than the Tanganika, or the south-eastern extremity of it, which looks, on the Doctor's map,
very much like an outline of Italy.  The latitude of the southern end of this great.body of
water is about 8 degrees 42 minutes south, which thus gives it a length, from north to south,
of 360 geographical miles.  From the southern extremity of the Tanganika he crossed Marungu,
and came in sight of Lake Moero.  Tracing this lake, which is about sixty miles in length,
to its southern head, he found a river, called the Luapula, entering it from that direction.
Following the Luapula south, he found it issue from the large lake of Bangweolo, which is nearly
as large in superficial area as the Tanganika.  In exploring for the waters which discharged
themselves into the lake, he found that by far the most important of these feeders was the
Chambezi; so that he had thus traced the Chambezi from its source to Lake Bangweolo, and the
issue from its northern head, under the name of Luapula, and found it enter Lake Moero. Again
he returned to Cazembe's, well satisfied that the river running north through three degrees
of latitude could not be the river running south under the name of Zambezi, though there might
be a remarkable resemblance in their names.

At Cazembe's he found an old white-bearded half-caste named Mohammed bin Sali, who was kept
as a kind of prisoner at large by the King because of certain suspicious circumstances attending
his advent and stay in the country.  Through Livingstone's influence Mohammed bin Sali obtained
his release.  On the road to Ujiji he had bitter cause to regret having exerted himself in
the half-caste's behalf.  He turned out to be a most ungrateful wretch, who poisoned the minds
of the Doctor's few followers, and ingratiated himself with them by selling the favours of
his concubines to them, by which he reduced them to a kind of bondage under him.  The Doctor
was deserted by all but two, even faithful Susi and Chumah deserted him for the service of
Mohammed bin Sali. But they soon repented, and returned to their allegiance.  From the day
he had the vile old man in his company manifold and bitter misfortunes followed the Doctor
up to his arrival at Ujiji in March, 1869.

From the date of his arrival until the end of June, 1869, he remained at Ujiji, whence he dated
those letters which, though the outside world still doubted his being alive, satisfied the
minds of the Royal Geographical people, and his intimate friends, that he still existed, and
that Musa'a tale was the false though ingenious fabrication of a cowardly deserter.  It was
during this time that the thought occurred to him of sailing around the Lake Tanganika, but
the Arabs and natives were so bent upon fleecing him that, had he undertaken it, the remainder
or his goods would not have enabled him to explore the central line of drainage, the initial
point of which he found far south of Cazembe's in about latitude 11 degrees, in the river called
Chambezi.

In the days when tired Captain Burton was resting in Ujiji, after his march from the coast
near Zanzibar, the land to which Livingstone, on his departure from Ujiji, bent his steps was
unknown to the Arabs save by vague report.  Messrs. Burton and Speke never heard of it, it
seems.  Speke, who was the geographer of Burton's Expedition, heard of a place called Urua,
which he placed on his map, according to the general direction indicated by the Arabs; but
the most enterprising of the Arabs, in their search after ivory, only touched the frontiers
of Rua, as, the natives and Livingstone call it; for Rua is an immense country, with a length
of six degrees of latitude, and as yet an undefined breadth from east to west.

At the end of June, 1869, Livingstone quitted Ujiji and crossed over to Uguhha, on the western
shore, for his last and greatest series of explorations; the result of which was the further
discovery of a lake of considerable magnitude connected with Moero by the large river called
the Lualaba, and which was a continuation of the chain of lakes he had previously discovered.

From the port of Uguhha he set off, in company with a body of traders, in an almost direct
westerly course, for the country of Urua.  Fifteen days' march brought them to Bambarre, the
first important ivory depot in Manyema, or, as the natives pronounce it, Manyuema.  For nearly
six months he was detained at Bambarre from ulcers in the feet, which discharged bloody ichor
as soon as he set them on the ground.  When recovered, he set off in a northerly direction,
and after several days came to a broad lacustrine river, called the Lualaba, flowing northward
and westward, and in some places southward, in a most confusing way.  The river was from one
to three miles broad.  By exceeding pertinacity he contrived to follow its erratic course,
until he saw the Lualaba enter the narrow, long lake of Kamolondo, in about latitude 6 degrees
30 minutes. Retracing this to the south, he came to the point where he had seen the Luapula
enter Lake Moero.

One feels quite enthusiastic when listening to Livingstone's description of the beauties of
Moero scenery.  Pent in on all sides by high mountains, clothed to the edges with the rich
vegetation of the tropics, the Moero discharges its superfluous waters through a deep rent
in the bosom of the mountains.  The impetuous and grand river roars through the chasm with
the thunder of a cataract, but soon after leaving its confined and deep bed it expands into
the calm and broad Lualaba, stretching over miles of ground.  After making great bends west
and south-west, and then curving northward, it enters Kamolondo.  By the natives it is called
the Lualaba, but the Doctor, in order to distinguish it from other rivers of the same name,
has given it the name of "Webb's River," after Mr. Webb, the wealthy proprietor of Newstead
Abbey, whom the Doctor distinguishes as one of his oldest and most consistent friends. Away
to the south-west from Kamolondo is another large lake, which discharges its waters by the
important River Loeki, or Lomami, into the great Lualaba.  To this lake, known as Chebungo
by the natives, Dr. Livingstone has given the name of "Lincoln," to be hereafter distinguished
on maps and in books as Lake Lincoln, in memory of Abraham Lincoln, our murdered President.
This was done from the vivid impression produced on his mind by hearing a portion of his inauguration
speech read from an English pulpit, which related to the causes that induced him to issue his
Emancipation Proclamation, by which memorable deed 4,000,000 of slaves were for ever freed.
To the memory of the man whose labours on behalf of the negro race deserves the commendation
of all good men, Livingstone has contributed a monument more durable than brass or stone.

Entering Webb's River from the south-south-west, a little north of Kamolondo, is a large river
called Lufira, but the streams, that discharge themselves from the watershed into the Lualaba
are so numerous that the Doctor's map would not contain them, so he has left all out except
the most important.  Continuing his way north, tracing the Lualaba through its manifold and
crooked curves as far as latitude 4 degrees south, he came to where he heard of another lake,
to the north, into which it ran.  But here you may come to a dead halt, and read what lies
beyond this spot thus .  .  .  . This was the furthermost point, whence he was compelled to
return on the weary road to Ujiji, a distance of 700 miles.

In this brief sketch of Dr. Livingstone's wonderful travels it is to be hoped the most superficial
reader, as well as the student of geography, comprehends this grand system of lakes connected
together by Webb's River.  To assist him, let him glance at the map accompanying this book.
He will then have a fair idea of what Dr. Livingstone has been doing during these long years,
and what additions he has made to the study of African geography.  That this river, distinguished
under several titles, flowing from one lake into another in a northerly direction, with all
its great crooked bends and sinuosities, is the Nile--the true Nile--the Doctor has not the
least doubt.  For a long time he entertained great scepticism, because of its deep bends and
curves west, and south-west even; but having traced it from its head waters, the Chambezi,
through 7 degrees of latitude--that is, from 11 degrees S. to lat. 4 degrees N.--he has been
compelled to come to the conclusion that it can be no other river than the Nile. He had thought
it was the Congo; but has discovered the sources of the Congo to be the Kassai and the Kwango,
two rivers which rise on the western side of the Nile watershed, in about the latitude of Bangweolo;
and he was told of another river called the Lubilash, which rose from the north, and ran west.
But the Lualaba, the Doctor thinks, cannot be the Congo, from its great size and body, and
from its steady and continued flow northward through a broad and extensive valley, bounded
by enormous mountains westerly and easterly.  The altitude of the most northerly point to which
the Doctor traced the wonderful river was a little in excess of 2,000 feet; so that, though
Baker makes out his lake to be 2,700 feet above the sea, yet the Bahr Ghazal, through which
Petherick's branch of the White Nile issues into the Nile, is but 2,000 feet; in which case
there is a possibility that the Lualaba may be none other than Petherick's branch.

It is well known that trading stations for ivory have been established for about 500 miles
up Petherick's branch.  We must remember this fact when told that Gondokoro, in lat. 4 degrees
N., is 2,000 feet above the sea, and lat. 4 degrees S., where the halt was made, is only a
little over 2,000 feet above the sea. That the two rivers said to be 2,000 feet above the sea,
separated from each other by 8 degrees of latitude, are one and the same river, may among some
men be regarded as a startling statement. But we must restrain mere expressions of surprise,
and take into consideration that this mighty and broad Lualaba is a lacustrine river broader
than the Mississippi; that at intervals the body of water forms extensive lakes; then, contracting
into a broad river, it again forms a lake, and so on, to lat. 4 degrees; and even beyond this
point the Doctor hears of a large lake again north.

We must wait also until the altitudes of the two rivers, the Lualaba, where the Doctor halted,
and the southern point on the Bahr Ghazal, where Petherick has been, are known with perfect
accuracy.

Now, for the sake of argument, suppose we give this nameless lake a length of 6 degrees of
latitude, as it may be the one discovered by Piaggia, the Italian traveller, from which Petherick's
branch of the White Nile issues out through reedy marshes, into the Bahr Ghazal, thence into
the White Nile, south of Gondokoro.  By this method we can suppose the rivers one; for if the
lake extends over so many degrees of latitude, the necessity of explaining the differences
of altitude that must naturally exist between two points of a river 8 degrees of latitude apart,
would be obviated.

Also, Livingstone's instruments for observation and taking altitudes may have been in error;
and this is very likely to have been the case, subjected as they have been to rough handling
during nearly six years of travel.  Despite the apparent difficulty of the altitude, there
is another strong reason for believing Webb's River, or the Lualaba, to be the Nile.  The watershed
of this river, 600 miles of which Livingstone has travelled, is drained from a valley which
lies north and south between lofty eastern and western ranges.

This valley, or line of drainage, while it does not receive the Kassai and the Kwango, receives
rivers flowing from a great distance west, for instance, the important tributaries Lufira and
Lomami, and large rivers from the east, such as the Lindi and Luamo; and, while the most intelligent
Portuguese travellers and traders state that the Kassai, the Kwango, and Lubilash are the head
waters of the Congo River, no one has yet started the supposition that the grand river flowing
north, and known by the natives as the Lualaba, is the Congo.

This river may be the Congo, or, perhaps, the Niger.  If the Lualaba is only 2,000 feet above
the sea, and the Albert N'Yanza 2,700 feet, the Lualaba cannot enter that lake.  If the Bahr
Ghazal does not extend by an arm for eight degrees above Gondokoro, then the Lualaba cannot
be the Nile.  But it would be premature to dogmatise on the subject.  Livingstone will clear
up the point himself; and if he finds it to be the Congo, will be the first to admit his error.

Livingstone admits the Nile sources have not been found, though he has traced the Lualaba through
seven degrees of latitude flowing north; and, though he has not a particle of doubt of its
being the Nile, not yet can the Nile question be said to be resolved and ended.  For two reasons:

1.  He has heard of the existence of four fountains, two of which gave birth to a river flowing
north, Webb's River, or the Lualaba, and to a river flowing south, which is the Zambezi.  He
has repeatedly heard of these fountains from the natives.  Several times he has been within
100 and 200 miles from them, but something always interposed to prevent his going to see them.
According to those who have seen them, they rise on either side of a mound or level, which
contains no stones.  Some have called it an ant-hill. One of these fountains is said to be
so large that a man, standing on one side, cannot be seen from the other.  These fountains
must be discovered, and their position taken.  The Doctor does not suppose them to be south
of the feeders of Lake Bangweolo.  In his letter to the 'Herald' he says "These four full-grown
gushing fountains, rising so near each other, and giving origin to four large rivers, answer
in a certain degree to the description given of the unfathomable fountains of the Nile, by
the secretary of Minerva, in the city of Sais, in Egypt, to the father of all travellers--
Herodotus."

For the information of such readers as may not have the original at hand, I append the following
from Cary's translation of Herodotus: <II.28>

<Jul 2001 The History of Herodotus V1 by Herodotus/ Macaulay [1hofhxxx.xxx]2707>

***
  With respect to the sources of the Nile, no man of all the
  Egyptians, Libyans, or Grecians, with whom I have conversed,
  ever pretended to know anything, except the registrar* of Minerva's

<*the secretary of the treasury of the goddess Neith, or Athena as Herodotus calls her: ho
grammatiste:s to:n hiro:n xre:mato:n te:s Athe:naie:s>

  treasury at Sais, in Egypt.  He, indeed, seemed to be trifling
  with me when he said he knew perfectly well; yet his account was
  as follows: "That there are two mountains, rising into a sharp
  peak, situated between the city of Syene, in Thebais, and
  Elephantine.  The names of these mountains are the one Crophi,
  the other Mophi; that the sources of the Nile, which are bottomless,
  flow from between these mountains and that half of the water flows
  over Egypt and to the north, the other half over Ethiopia and the
  south.  That the fountains of the Nile are bottomless, he said,
  Psammitichus, king of Egypt, proved by experiment: for, having
  caused a line to be twisted many thousand fathoms in length, he
  let it down, but could not find a bottom."  Such, then, was the
  opinion the registrar gave, if, indeed, he spoke the real truth;
  proving, in my opinion, that there are strong whirlpools and an
  eddy here, so that the water beating against the rocks, a
  sounding-line, when let down, cannot reach the bottom.  I was
  unable to learn anything more from any one else.  But thus much
  I learnt by carrying my researches as far as possible, having gone
  and made my own observations as far as Elephantine, and beyond
  that obtaining information from hearsay.  As one ascends the river,
  above the city of Elephantine, the country is steep; here,
  therefore; it is necessary to attach a rope on both sides of a boat,
  as one does with an ox in a plough, and so proceed; but if
  the rope should happen to break, the boat is carried away by the
  force of the stream.  This kind of country lasts for a four-days'
  passage, and the Nile here winds as much as the Maeander.  There
  are twelve schoeni, which it is necessary to sail through in
  this manner; and after that you will come to a level plain, where
  the Nile flows round an island; its name is Tachompso.  Ethiopians
  inhabit the country immediately above Elephantine, and one half
  of the island; the other half is inhabited by Egyptians.  Near to
  this island lies a vast lake, on the borders of which Ethiopian
  nomades dwell.  After sailing through this lake you will come to
  the channel of the Nile, which flows into it: then you will have
  to land and travel forty days by the side of the river, for sharp
  rocks rise in the Nile, and there are many sunken ones, through
  which it is not possible to navigate a boat.  Having passed this
  country in the forty days, you must go on board another boat, and
  sail for twelve days; and then you will arrive at a large city,
  called Meroe; this city is said to be the capital of all
  Ethiopia.  The inhabitants worship no other gods than Jupiter and
  Bacchus; but these they honour with great magnificence.  They
  have also an oracle of Jupiter; and they make war whenever that
  god bids them by an oracular warning, and against whatever
  country he bids them.  Sailing from this city, you will arrive at
  the country of the Automoli, in a space of time equal to that
  which you took in coming from Elephantine to the capital of the
  Ethiopians.  These Automoli are called by the name of Asmak,
  which, in the language of Greece, signifies "those that stand at
  the left hand of the king."  These, to the number of two hundred and
  forty thousand of the Egyptian war-tribe, revolted to the
  Ethiopians on the following occasion.  In the reign of King
  Psammitichus garrisons were stationed at Elephantine against the
  Ethiopians, and another at the Pelusian Daphnae against the
  Arabians and Syrians, and another at Marea against Libya; and even
  in my time garrisons of the Persians are stationed in the same
  places as they were in the time of Psammitichus, for they
  maintain guards at Elephantine and Daphnae.  Now, these Egyptians,
  after they had been on duty three years, were not relieved;
  therefore, having consulted together and come to an unanimous
  resolution, they all revolted from Psammitichus, and went to
  Ethiopia.  Psammitichus, hearing of this, pursued them; and when
  he overtook them he entreated them by many arguments, and adjured
  them not to forsake the gods of their fathers, and their
  children and wives But one of them is reported to have uncovered
  [        ] and to have said, that wheresoever these were there they

<<"which it is said that one of them pointed to his privy member and said that wherever this
was, there would they have both children and wives"-- Macaulay tr.; published edition censors>>

  should find both children and wives."  These men, when they arrived
  in Ethiopia, offered their services to the king of the Ethiopians,
  who made them the following recompense.  There were certain
  Ethiopians disaffected towards him; these he bade them expel,
  and take possession of their land.  By the settlement of these men
  among the Ethiopians, the Ethiopians became more civilized, and
  learned the manners of the Egyptians.

