The only answer was a moan. He had found the way to torture her now; and he meant to use his power.

"Vivian was a good deal chaffed about it. He used to be a great flirt when he was younger,
but not so much of late years, you know. I'll confess now, Kitty, I taxed him one day with
his conduct to you. He said he was sorry; he knew that you were head and ears in love with him----"

"It is false," said Kitty, lifting a very pale face from the cushions amongst which she had
laid it. "Mr. Vivian never said anything of the kind. He is too much of a gentleman to say
a thing like that."

"What do you know of the things that men say to each other when they are alone?" said Hugo,
confident in her ignorance of the world, and professedly contemptuous. "He said what I have
told you. And he said, too, that marriage was out of the question for him, on account of an
unfortunate entanglement in his youth--a private marriage, or something of the kind; his wife
is separated from him, but she is living still. He asked me to let you know this as soon and
as gently as I could."

"Is it true?" she asked, in a low voice. Her face seemed to have grown ten years older in the
last ten minutes: it was perfectly colourless, and the eyes had a dull, strained look, which
was not softened even by the bright drops that still hung on her long lashes.

"Perfectly true," said Hugo. "Perhaps this paper will bring you conviction, if my word does not."

He handed her a small slip cut from a newspaper, which had the air of having been in his possession
for some time. Kitty took it and read:--

"On the 15th of October, at St. Botolph's Church, Manchester, Rupert, eldest son of the late
Gerald Vivian, Esq., of Vivian Court, Devonshire, to Selina Mary Smithson. No cards."

Just a commonplace announcement of marriage like any other. Kitty's eyes travelled to the top
of the paper where the date was printed: 1863. "It is a long while ago," she said, pointing
to the figures. "His wife may be dead." Her voice sounded hoarse and unnatural, even in her
own ears.

"Perhaps so," said Hugo, carelessly. "If he said that she were, I should not be much inclined
to believe him. After all these years of secrecy a man will say anything. But he told me last
year that she was living."

Kitty laid down the paper with a sort of gasp and shiver. She murmured something to herself--it
sounded like a prayer--"God help me!" or words to that effect--but she was quite unconscious
of having spoken. Hugo took up the paper, and replaced it carefully in his pocket-book. He
had held it in reserve for some time now; but he was not quite sure that it had done all its work.

"And now," he went on, "you see a part--not the whole--of my motives, Kitty. I had been raging
in my heart against this fellow's insolence for long enough; I wanted to stop the slanderous
tongues of the people who were talking about you; and I hoped--when you were so kind and gracious
to me--that you meant to be my wife. Therefore, when I asked you and you refused me, I grew
desperate. Believe me, Kitty, or not, as you choose, but my love for you has nearly maddened
me. I could not leave you to lay yourself open to the world's contempt and scorn: I was afraid--afraid--lest
Vivian should do you harm in the world's eyes, and so I tried to save you, dear, to save you
from yourself and him--even against your own will, when I brought you here."

His eyes grew moist, and lost some of their wildness: he drew nearer, and ventured almost timidly
to take her hand. She did not repulse him, and from her silence and motionlessness he gathered
courage.

"I thought to myself," he said, "that here, at least, was a refuge: here was a man who loved
you, and was ready to give you his home and his name, and show the world that he loved you
in spite of all. 

Then his eyes fell on the box that had given him at parting, and the Queen he had carelessly
put his side on the sand.

"What does this box," he wondered. The beautiful queen has indeed said that it was my life
in it and I'll lose it if I open the box. Is this bid but perhaps just a sample? Has the box
but not my luck? Is all what I experienced today, just an illusion and this disappears when
I open the box? And even if I should die, what's the harm? Am I not a stranger in my Home and have
no one, no one who loves me, knows me? Without father, without family, without friends, without
friends, I'm worse off than a homeless man, then I is death Only one prize, he offers me something
better than this miserable life! So saying, He slowly broke the cord that was wrapped around
the box and opened the lid a little.

As a small white cloud rose out of the box, then spread, rose and floated slowly to the direction
of the sea, where the Palace of the Sea Queen was.

According to a cry sprang up and spread Urashima longingly out his arms, but - a sudden sharp
pain shot through his body and he dropped his arms, he looked on his hand and an icy rain fell upon
him, the hand, just as fresh and rosy, was withered, wrinkled and bony like an old man and
now he felt like his blood froze as carrier flowed through his veins, the skin pulled into folds,
the heartbeat stopped, Once more he looked into the water, as reflected him a wrinkled gray
old man's face with sparse white hair against his own face, before more minutes in youthful vigor,
now changed mummy. With a woe sound he fell to the ground and a pile of gray dust described
the site as Urashima returned youth fresh in a few minutes to dust
was [4].

    
    
    [Note 1: Say: Uraschima; Urashima = proper noun, taro = Eldest son,
in a figurative sense as: the first-born, the Elder.]

[Note 2: This
type of cruelty to animals can still be every day as an amusement
of the Japanese youth .

    Watch]
    
[Note 3: "sama" and "san"

    = lord, sama is the polite Form as san.]
    

    [Note 4: The fate of Urashima's are confirmed in documents. The period
    of his absence in the Japanese chronicle 477-825 AD. specified,
    then 348 years. In fairy tales, the are varied, the time varies
    between 300-7000 Years. I chose the mean time, the latest in the
    Japanese editions of 700 years indicated. In the village Kanagawa
    Yokohama are still in the grave and the Urashima's fishing
    equipment shown. Urashima is one of the Japan's favorite
    fairy tale characters.]
    

  [Decoration]

If you dance with goblins!

In ancient times there lived a farmer, who had on his right cheek a large tumor, large as a
pear. As this fellow one day into the forest to collect sticks, He was caught in a thunderstorm
and took refuge in a hollow tree, where it provides protection against the rain was. When the storm
finally stopped, it was night and the farmer could not find the way home, so he remained in the
hollow of the tree sit and expected the morning.

In the forest but it was very lonely and scary and the man was in fear and fear does not To sleep. About
midnight he heard voices and laughter. Surprised stretched he shows his head and saw a number
of goblins with the strangest faces and in different Shape. These were just close to the tree
in which the farmer was sitting, took place and rejoiced at the trunk. When they had enough to drink,
they began to sing and . Dance The farmer, who liked to dance and also likes a good drink Sake
taken [1] to be would have, could not stand in his hiding place any
longer, for the pleasure of the goblins had catching him.

So he came out and approached the dancers, who, when she saw a man
wanted to hurry away troubled.

He cried to them: "If only there, I will only Show how to dance better, "And immediately afterwards
he started making fun in the dance to turn.

The elves were happy about his dancing and tried to imitate him, and they gave him food and
drink.

Was it a joy! It lasted until the morning dawned.

[Colored image]

Then the goblins: "You've delighted us by your company.

Come but also tomorrow night again! "

The farmer said to this, but the goblins wanted a pledge that he also certainly came. "You know,"
she said to him, "we are for your security tumor take, you they can
then get back tomorrow.

"

Thus, the speaker felt at once to the cheek of the man and took him away the tumor, without
that he felt a pain.

Then all rushed away laughing, calling to him, not to forget to come back.

The farmer felt his cheek, she was quite smooth and had no trace of the tumor more not even
a scar, and he was extremely happy about it and decided to give this
place to avoid in the future and to take the goblins out of the way,
for he had no desire the tumor to get back.

So he went home satisfied, where all wondered at him, amazed that
his tumor lost without a trace.

He then told him how lucky the goblins for his dancing prepared, but wisely concealed that
she only the tumor as a pledge for His return had declined.

Now, in the village nor a country man lived with a tumor on the cheek. This had the tumor on
the left.

When he heard of the happiness of his neighbors, he also wanted to get rid of his tumor and to let
the place you exactly where the first farmer had taken the goblins.

In the night he went there and met the goblins also real.

He wanted to hear but only what they said and therefore was hiding in the same cavity in which
the night before the other fellow had stuck.

The goblins but did not talk much, but watched from time to time waiting,
until finally one said, "Our friend of yesterday seems not to come
today!"

  

    
    On hearing this the farmer, he leaped out dancing and said, "Since
I am already!"

  

  Now they were all rejoiced, gave him a drink and then called him back
to his art .

Show

But he was a clumsy dancer, and he could not tolerate a lot of sake, so that its Dance was clumsy
and he umherhopste stiff and staggering. It was not the goblins Pleasure of watching the man
and they shouted: "You're still not as skilled as yesterday and today
we have no pleasure in your society.

Take that away and let you come up never see us again, because of you we do not remember, so
here you have your tumor again! "

One goblin out of his pocket and threw it to the startled man's face, soaking - Clapping - they sat
on the right cheek. Then they pushed him away and he had now two tumors return home. -

That's what happens when one wants to have the same luck envious sense that others enjoy!

[Image]

[Note 1: = Sake brewed from rice, strong alcoholic Wine which is drunk hot.]

[Decoration]

Envy brings suffering.

[Image]

It's been a long, long time ago!

  Because once lived in a small town an old man This was done in his
whole life everyone but good, was just and good.

Therefore had love him, all people, although he was poor. Just opposite the house of this good
old Man lived another old man who was very rich, but not good, but greedy and all he saw was
like too.

Now the good man had no children and no relatives and he would live all alone need, not what he
wanted, because he also wanted to have someone in his house he could love and love him in return.
Therefore he acquired a most charming little Sad to cherished, and
cared for it and soon had his great joy in the comical little creatures
the requited love all the old man and so faithful and devoted was
that it was never on the side of his Lord departed, but accompanied
him on all his ways.

One day the Lord and walked his dog and came to a barren field.

Since barking Suddenly the little dog, ran to a spot in the middle
of the field and began his Paws to scratch violently by his master
frankly looked imploringly, as if to say it:

"Dig here for, here's
something for you," The old man knew his dog, went home, fetched a
spade and dug to the body that had called the dog and see here!

When the man had dug a little while, he found the hole in a pile of gold Koban [1] which he was delighted
that the money carried home and donated a large part of the poor.

Nevertheless, he was rich now, he was friendly and humble as before, but had his dog much, much
better.

The bad neighbor but envied the happiness of the old and experienced
as he had, so this had come to the wealth, he sought to lure the dog
into his house so that it also Make him show you where gold Koban
would be hidden.

But the dog followed the lure not and never deviated from his master's side.

[Image]

Now, could the greedy man with cunning achieve nothing, he turned to violence by the dog, as this
quietly sat in front of the house, seized and dragged to his house, then he tied it with a rope
and led it into the field to make it show him buried treasures. The dog pawed really in different
places, but whenever the man the hard ground had opened and the sweat
of his nachgegraben face, he found nothing as a stinking rubbish,
so he got angry, the dog, killed with his hatchet, and the body the
good old man accused in the garden.

The old man was very saddened and buried his favorite under a tree in the garden, and although he knew
well who was the culprit, he was wearing and tell him to not even
asked he atone for the offense committed.

Shortly afterwards he appeared one night the little dog in a dream and said to him:

"Mourn no more, my death will bring you even more luck if you follow my advice. Pick the tree
under which I am buried, around and make yourself out of the wood
a rice mortar [2] and Schlegel, "

The old man did as he was told
and when he took the mortar in use, what a miracle!

Since flowed from the mortar of the Mochi [3] and there was no end to stomp up the old man stopped.
This was now very happy, because he did not need to buy more rice and could also reflect Poor
of the place make plenty.

But the evil neighbor, came to this new happiness of the other person's
ears, had no Rest, he was determined to have the mortar.

So he went to the old man and asked him he would but the mortar at least once, only lend to one day,
he certainly brings the next Back tomorrow. The old man was kind enough to believe the man, and to
lend him the mortar, whom this delighted in his house, carried him
up to the brim filled with rice and then stomp began.

But oh horror! Instead of beautiful Mochi welled disgusting feces and filled with his stink the whole
house. Because of the poor man took an ax, cut the mortar together with Schlegel in pieces
and burnt them to ashes.

But even if this new evil of the angry old man robbed of his mortar, but rather followed the
advice of his dead puppy, which he had re-appeared in the dream and won the ashes of the mortar
from the house of his neighbor and kept them carefully in a vessel on.

Then one day came in late autumn, when all the trees and bushes were bare, the daimyo [4] his
train had broken in and the house of our good old man, lying on the road, over. The old man
now quickly seized handfuls of the ashes, climbed to a cherry tree
standing by the roadside, and just as the daimyo of which was, he
scattered the ashes from.

The daimyo and his retinue were at first paralyzed with fear, then
took it's anger at such crime, and they wanted to take the old man.

    
    
    But what a delight all covered! Everywhere where the ashes
were flown blossomed and flourished to the branches and twigs were
full of leaves and flowers and trickling instead of ashes fine rain
lights cherry blossoms on the daimyo and his retinue down.

    Everything from crying Joy at such a miracle, according to the ancients
and yet chastise just wanted to hug him and praised his miracle.

    
    
    The Daimyo was touched by these thoughtful attention and made the
old rich gifts; he also sent him when he had heard the story of the
pet dog, another loveable Sad.

    

  

The bad neighbor but almost burst with envy and anger, but he still
went back to the good-natured Man and asked him if he still had some
ashes left, he may yet give him a little, what the old man did.

When the poor man now once heard that the daimyo again with his retinue
of the way came, he had nothing more urgent to do than to take the
ash obtained and given to also to climb a tree. When the then Daimyo
rode under the tree, sprinkled man is really about him from the ashes,
but not a leaf and no flower was found, but ash and the ash was the
daimyo and his men flew into the eyes, ears, nose and mouth, so that
everyone is full of wrath fell on the culprit, then it properly thrashing,
put in chains and put into prison, where he died after many big pain.
- It promulgated all envious and greedy, which does not allow the
neighbor to be lucky and it want to take away rather than to rejoice
in the happiness of the neighbor with this!

[Colored image]

[Note
1: = Old Japanese Koban gold coins. These gold coins had been elongated
round shape, without inscription and in 1588 were for the first time
in Japan under Hideyoshi, embossed and issued.]

[Note 2: Large timber
vessel for rice pounding.]

[Note 3: Mochi = pronounced Mo-chi, a
viscous slurry pounded rice, which is used for cakes (rice cakes).
These cakes are called Mochigwashi (Mochi-Gwashi).]

[Note 4: Daimyo
= Prince.]

[Decoration]

The wily policeman. [1]

The former Emperor
of Korea had established a secret police, the law and order had to
make in the city and was intended to prevent robbery and theft. Rupert scarcely recognised those broken, uneven tones.
He went on slowly.

"She left me at last. We agreed to separate. I saw her from time to time, and made her an allowance.
She lived in one place: I in another. She died last year."

"Last year?"

"Yes, in the autumn. You heard that I had gone into Wales to see a relation who was dying:
that was my wife."

"Did Percival know?" asked Kitty, in a low voice.

"No. I think very few persons knew. I wonder whether I ought to have told the world in general!
I did not want to blazon forth my shame."

For a little time they both were silent. Then Rupert said, softly:--

"When she was dead, I remembered the little girl whom I used to know in Gower-street; and I
said to myself that I would find her out."

"You found her changed," said Kitty, with a sob.

"Very much changed outwardly; but with the same loving heart at the core. Kitty, I was unjust
to you: I have come back to offer reparation."

"For what?"

"For that injustice, dear. When I went away from Strathleckie in January, I was angry and vexed
with you. I thought that you were throwing yourself away in promising to marry Hugo Luttrell--"
then, as Kitty made a sudden gesture--"oh, I know I had no right to interfere. I was wrong,
quite wrong. Perhaps they even believe that I died am swallowed
by the waves of the sea, at the bottom of the ocean calm! "

Without reflecting long, he rushed to the Queen and asked her to lead him back to his family
leave because he already was absent seven days of home and be sure
would frighten.

The queen, who tried in vain to dissuade the Urashima homesickness took ideas, as she saw that
her words did not help him with it in her room, and handed him a small, tightly tied lacquer
box, saying: "I have no power up here against your will to hold back, although I know that
your return home you bring only misery. But take this in remembrance of me this box, you will
accessible and useful to you if you have a desire to return to me, this return . Allow This value
keeps the box but only as long as it remains unopened. So Note well! Let your way through culpable
curiosity and some other circumstances which never To trick ever the bond that holds the box
closed to solve, and the lid air, it would be your death and you never would have found its
way to me. Will you return to me, go with the sealed boxes to the beach and call my name,
I'll give you a send my servants to you inferred. So take to heart my words and let the box closed,
your life is in it. And now, farewell! "

She kissed him on the forehead and escorted him to the gates. Here, the turtle was ready the
Urashima ascended. In a short time she was with him on the beach where she left him. By Box
under his arm, he tried to immigrate to his village, but remained on his way are repeated, because
he was everything, the beach, the road, the trees and fields changed something before. Several
times he believed that the turtle had him dumped in a wrong place, but yet it was this or that famous
again, and he finally is thinking reassured of the seven-day stay at the bottom of the sea had his
eyes, his vision affected.

But when he finally arrived in his village, as were the houses and huts all changed on the market
were trees that he had never seen the occupants were unknown to him,
and so He also looked anxiously each face, he could find no friends,
even the Children seemed to him strange, the surprising and staring
at him and then ran after him. He felt it: he felt her hand, and then he asked a question.

"Are you married already, Kitty?"

"Yes."

"To whom?"

"To Hugo Luttrell." And then she sank down almost at his feet, sobbing, and her hot tears fell
upon the hand which she pressed impulsively to her lips. "Oh, forgive me! forgive me!" she
cried. "Indeed, I did not know what to do. I was very wicked and foolish. And now I am miserable.
I shall be miserable all my life."

These vague self-accusations conveyed no very clear idea to Vivian's mind; but he was conscious
of a sharp sting of pain at the thought that she was not happy in her marriage.

"I did not know. I would not have spoken as I did if I had known," he said.

"No, I know you would not; and yet I could not tell you. You will hear all about it from the
others. I cannot bear to tell you. And yet--yet--don't think me quite so foolish, quite so
wrong as they will say that I have been. They do not know all. I cannot tell them all. I was
driven into it--and now I have to bear the punishment. My whole life is a punishment. I am
miserable."

"Life can never be a mere punishment, if it is rightly led," said Vivian, in a low tone. "It
is, at any rate, full of duties and they will bring happiness."

"To some, perhaps; not to me," said Kitty, raising herself from her kneeling posture and drying
her eyes. "I have no duties but to look nice and make myself agreeable."

"You will find duties if you look for them. There is your husband's happiness, to begin with----"

"My husband," exclaimed Kitty, in a tone of passionate contempt that startled him. But they
could say no more, for at that moment the carriage came up to the door, and, from the voices
in the hall, it was plain that the family had returned.

A great hush fell upon those merry voices when Mr. Vivian's errand was made known. Mrs. Heron,
who was really fond of Percival, was inconsolable, and retired to her own room with the little
boys and the baby to weep for him in peace. Mr. Heron, Kitty, and Elizabeth remained with Rupert
in the study, listening to the short account which he gave of the wreck of the Arizona, as
he had learnt it from Mason's lips. And then it was proposed that Mason should be summoned
to tell his own story.

Mason's eyes rested at once upon Elizabeth with a look of respectful admiration. He told his
story with a rough, plain eloquence which more than once brought tears to the listeners' eyes;
and he dwelt at some length on the presence of mind and cheery courage which Mr. Heron had
shown during the few minutes between the striking of the ship and her going down. "Just as
bold as a lion, ladies and gentlemen; helping every poor soul along, and never thinking of
himself. They told fine tales of one of the men we took aboard from the Falcon; but Mr. Heron
beat him and all of us, I'm sure."

"You took on board someone from the Falcon?" said Elizabeth, suddenly.

"Yes, ma'am, three men that were picked up in an open boat, where they had been for five days
and nights; the Falcon having been burnt to the water's edge, and very few of the crew saved."

Elizabeth's hands clasped themselves a little more tightly, but she suffered no sign of emotion
to escape her.

"Do you remember the names of the men saved from the Falcon?" she said.

"There was Jackson," said the sailor, slowly; "and there was Fall; and there was a steerage
passenger--seems to me his name was Smith, but I can't rec'llect exackly."

"It was not Stretton?"

"No, it warn't no name like that, ma'am."

"Then they are both lost," said Elizabeth, rising up with a deadly calm in her fixed eyes and
white face; "both lost in the great, wild sea. We shall see them no more--no more." She paused,
and then added in a much lower voice, as if speaking to herself: "I shall go to them, but they
will not return to me."

Her strength seemed to give way. She walked a few steps unsteadily, threw up her hands as if
to save herself, and without a word and without a cry, fell in a dead faint to the ground.

CHAPTER XLVI.

A MERE CHANCE.

Vivian went back to London on the following morning, taking Mason with him. He had heard what
made him anxious to leave Strathleckie before any accidental meeting with Hugo Luttrell should
take place. The story told of Kitty's marriage was that she had eloped with Hugo; and Mr. Heron,
in talking the matter over with his son's friend, declared that an elopement had been not only
disgraceful, but utterly unnecessary, since he should never have thought of opposing the marriage.
He had been exceedingly angry at first; and now, although he received Kitty at Strathleckie,
he treated her with great coldness, and absolutely refused to speak to Hugo at all.

In a man of Mr. Heron's easy temperament, these manifestations of anger were very strong; and
Vivian felt even a little surprised that he took the matter so much to heart. He himself was
not convinced that the whole truth of the story had been told: he was certain, at any rate,
that Hugo Luttrell had dragged Kitty's name through the mire in a most unjustifiable way, and
he felt a strong desire to wreak vengeance upon him. For Kitty's sake, therefore, it was better
that he should keep out of the way: he did not want to quarrel with her husband, and he knew
that Hugo would not be sorry to find a cause of dispute with him.

He could not abandon the hope of some further news of the Arizona and the Falcon. 

  And ever the wind blows, and again We hear
  and speak many words And feel joy and
  fatigue of the limbs.

  
  And roads run through the grass, and places If here
  and there, full of torches, trees, ponds, And threatening, and dead,
wither ...

Why this structured? and equal Each other before? and
are innumerable?

  Why laughter, tears or disease?
  
  What good to us, and all these games, The great and eternal but we
are lonely And wander seek any goals?

  
  
  What use is it like to have seen many?

  And yet he says much of the> evening, says,
  " A word from sorrow and grave thought
  

  How heavy honey from the honeycomb hollow.

  
  NOX PORTENTIS gravida
  
  In tall trees is a fog game And three of
  the beautiful stars twinkle close: The hyacinths
  from the dark earth Remember that this
  will happen What probably happened earlier
  and more often: That Hermes and the
  two Dioscuri, Sparkling high spirits before
  the airy footsteps The wind-borne Graces switch
  And playing with the cruelty of hunting, You scare from the treetops,
so the waves Driving near the river until it meets.

  
  
  The poet has his way somewhere else,
  And looking through the eyes of the Medusa If
  he looks the other way superior pale
  field Immediately removed and do not know
  what it's like And it adds to other such
  places, Where his soul as a child moved,
  Has an existence of any guarantee period In Adler
  abgestorbner air and rest.

  There it spreads its shadows and the bills
  Things out of the earth, and precious stones.

The
  third part of the sky but does The cloud
  of such a death, blackness, How they obtained the
  soul of him who By night, the way is looking
  at a candle: The cloud that lasted the next
  morning, With thousands of thunder storms
  And blue light as strong as close to sun And
  horrible fall of hot stones, The island
  haunt, where the tremor Flowering had the
  most wonderful joys; Against tremendous
  anxiety until orbenes wines The purchase price
  was, that in troubled gardens Who never saw
  themselves, for life is found And drunk, dying,
  life is not desirable; That God sprang from the
  air and ground bands Orphaned children equally
  glowing Prophet And all the souls blossomed as the stars.

  
  HAPPY HOUSE
  
  sang at an open balconies An old man playing
  organ to heaven, However on a threshing floor
  at his feet, The slim fought with the bearded
  grandson That by the pure stock of the
  oleander A shiver ran up: but a bird Still
  in full bloom the crown slip Flea and not
  wise gaze peered down.

  On the edge of the well-hewn but The young
  woman gave her child the breast.
  
  But the wanderer, the road is Along the walls
  around the antenna bent, Threw a glance behind
  him to the stranger And had in it - the same as that evening cloud
Entschwebend, on quiet river and forest - The wonderful image of peace
continued.

  
  EMBASSY
  
  I have considered myself that traveler
  on Only those may mean, since we talking
  The landscape before our eyes into a realm
  The modified soul; uphill because The
  shadows we got into the grove, Us as once
  embraced experiences, Since we are still
  on the separated fields The dream of life
  niegeahnter beings Yes its gone and found traces
  of drinking Above the pond and a moving
  interview, Even lower than arch reflecting
  the sky: I was intent on such days, And
  that, next to these three: to be healthy,
  On own body and life to rejoice And to think,
  wings, young eagle Only one avails: socialize
  with friends. So I want you to come and
  drink with me For those pitchers who are my heritage,
  Decorated with foliage and winged children,
  And I sit in the garden tower: Two
  young men guarding his door, In their
  heads with soft eye Half Turned
  away an enormous Skill stone look up that you are
  silent And see my landscape spread out: That
  maybe a verse from you to me Refined in future
  in solitude And here and there memory
  of you A shadow nests and dusk The
  road between dark tops of rolls And shadow-free
  paths in the air Rolln then like a distant
  golden thunder.
  

Triplets of evanescent

  I
  
  I still feel her breath on her cheeks: How can it be that these near
days Gone, gone forever, and completely over?

  
  
  This is a thing that no aussinnt full And far too horrible, but that
suit you: That all slides and vorüberrinnt

And that my own ego inhibited
by anything, Slipped over a small child I like a dumb dog scary and
strange.

  
  
  Then: I was a hundred years And my ancestors, in the shroud, related
to me are like my own hair,

One thing with me as my own hair.

  
  
  II

  

The hours! where we are on the bright blue Understand the ocean and
stare death So light and solemnly, and without fear,

As little girls,
but appearance, the pale, With big eyes, and freeze the always hinsehn
One evening in front of dumb

And know that life is now out of their
Flows over links with sleep still In trees' and grass, and dull smile
adorn

As a saint who shed their blood.

  
  
  III

  
  We are such stuff as dreams of, Dreams and
  broken as the eyes Like small children under the cherry trees,

From
the crown to run blaßgoldnen The full moon raises the big night.

  ... Otherwise appear on our dreams,
  
  Are there and live like a child who laughs No less great in the up
and down float As a full moon, woke up from tree crowns.

  

  The heart is open to her weaving, How ghostly hands
  in a locked room Are they in our lives
  and always have.

  
  And three are one: a man, a thing, a dream.

IV

Sometimes
  women come niegeliebte In the dream as a little girl in us And have
a look unspeakably touching

As if they were with us on distant paths
Once on an evening long gone, However, the tops of breathing move

And
scent and night falls and fear, And dark along the path of our route,
of, In the evening light, the silent lake resplendent

And sparkle,
mirrors our desire, a dream, And all the soft words, all floating
The evening air and the first stars twinkle

The sisterly souls tremble
and deep And sad and full Triumphgepränge Before deep idea that the
great life

Understand and his glory and strength.

  
  
  SOME BUT ...

  
  Some of course have to die down, Where
  the heavy oars of ships, Andre live up there at the wheel, Know the
flight of birds and the countries of the stars.

  

  Many lie with heavy limbs In the tangled
  roots of life, Others are addressed, the
  chairs When the Sibyl, the Queens, And they sit at home, Light head
and light hands.

  
  
  But a shadow is cast by those living In the other life over, And the
light are to the severe How tied to air and ground:

Forgotten peoples
weariness I can not dismiss from my eyelids, Still keep away from
the frightened soul Soundless fall also star.

  
  
  Many destinies weave next to mine.

  Confusion, she plays all existence. And my part is
  more than this life Lean flame or narrow
  lyre.

  
  A DREAM OF GREAT MAGIC
  

  Much as a royal pearl band And bold as young sea in the morning fragrance
That was a big dream - as I found him.

  
  Through open glass doors was the air. I slept
  in the pavilion to ebner earth And
  by four open doors was the air -

  
  And earlier were already harnessed horses
  Throughout an entire family and
  dog past my bed. But the gesture

The
  magician - the First, the Great
  - was At once between me and a wall: His proud nod, royal hair.

  
  
  And behind him, wall, and it was A wide
  chasm of splendor, dark sea And green mats behind his hand.

  
  
  He bent down and pulled her the depth. He bent
  down, and went his fingers In the bottom as if it were water.

  
  
  From the thin source of water but started
  Opals are huge in the hands And fell ringing again in rings.

  
  Then he threw himself with a slight swing
  of the loins - As only out of pride - the cliff next to; At his end,
I saw the power of gravity.

  
  
  In his eyes he was the rest By sleeping, but live births precious
stones.

  He sat down and said such a you
  
  For days, which seem to us completely over, That they came from mournful
and large: This pleased him to laugh and cry.

  
  
  He felt fantastic all human lot, Just as he felt his own limbs.

  He was not near and far, nothing small
  and large.
  

  And how deep below the earth cooled, The
  darkness of the depths penetrated upwards
  The night of the Laue from the tops of burrowed,

He enjoyed all
life big gear So much - that he was in great drunkenness Just as a
lion jumped over cliffs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

  
  
  Cherub and lord is our spirit - Does not live in us, and the highest
stars He is the chair and leaves us orphaned:

But he is fire us in
the deepest cores - So I guessed, I found the dream there - And talk
to the fires that distance

And lives in me as I have in my hand.

  
  
  IN THE COUNTRY TO SING

  
  I
  

  Heard you not into it That music prowled the
  house? Night was heavy and without Bill,
  But the gently on a hard stone Was played and that was me.

  
  
  I could, I spoke of: > Do you love, my all thou < East broke out a
light Difficult day drove me home, And my mouth is back.

  
  
  II

  
  The sky was cloudy and heavy, We were lonely
  so much Are cut off! But that is no
  longer: Air flow to and fro; And the whole world in the midst Shines,
as if she were glassy.

  
  
  Stars were merged, My flicker and your cheeks, And they also know:
Strong and stronger their splendor; And we breathe with desire Lie
blessed as caught Feel a touch of the other.

  
  
  III

  

The beloved said: "I hold thee not, You swore me.

The people we should not hold Are not natives of the litter.

  
  
  Take off your street, my friend, Examination
  you country by country, In many
  beds rest of you, Many women take by the hand.

  
  
  Where you the wine is too acidic,
  As you drink Malvasia, And when my
  mouth is sweet to you, Then come back to me only! <

Song OF HARLEQUIN

Love,
hate, hope, anguish, All pleasure and all pain, Anything can endure
a heart Once at the other times

But neither pleasure nor pain, Dead
and the pain, This is deadly your heart And so you may not be me!

  
  Have to lift you out of darkness,
  It would also include new
  agony You must live, love life,
  Still alive for once!
  
  Zerbinetta

  
  I still think the one I belong entirely,
  Yet I mean to myself
  so be sure to There steals into the
  heart quietly bewitching Already
  a never tasted freedom, A
  new and stealthy love Tail end of a naughty feelings!

I am still true, and yet it is a lie I consider myself loyal and
I'm already bad.

  Using false weights everything is weighed
  - And half knowing and half in
  a frenzy I deceive him at last, and
  yet love him right!

  Yes, half knowing and half in a frenzy
  I still love and deceive
  at length right! So it was with
  Pagliazzo And with Mezzetino!

  Then it was Cavicchio, Then Buratin,
  Then Pasquariello! Oh,
  and sometimes Will it seems to me
  There were two!

But never moods, Always a must!

  Always a new Uneasy amazement.
  That a heart so even himself,
  Even himself does not understand!
  Each one came as a god, And his step was already making me dumb He
kissed my forehead and cheeks, I was captivated by the God And walked
round and round!

  
  
  VOICE OF THE UNBORN
  

  Father, Who threatens nothing See,
  it vanishes already Mother,
  Anxious, The misled you! If
  ever a party, If it were not secretly We are the guests, We are also
the hosts?

  
  SONG OF THE WORLD
  
  Fly out time, you're my maid Schmück
  me of nächtet, adorn me, when it meets,
  Braid my hair play, around my shoe, I
  am the wife, the girl you are! Heia! But once
  you step in. angry The stars shoot crooked
  appearance, The wind passes through the high
  hall, The sun goes out, the light is pale,
  The ground is a death certificate, Since you will
  be my mistress! Alas! And I am your servant,
  weak and despondent, God's the pity! Fly
  out, period! The time is
  far! Heia!
  
  SHAPING
  
  A BOY
  
  I
  
  While he knew the
  shells not beautiful:
  He was too much of a
  world with them; The fragrance of
  hyacinths was nothing to him And
  not the mirror image of their own
  faces.
  
  But all his days were so Open
  like a lyre-shaped valley, In it, he also at the same time Herr and
Knecht Of life was white and without choice.

  
  As one who does not, which
  is not seemly to him, But
  not for long, he
  went on the trails: The
  Homecoming and endless
  conversation Raised
  his soul still oppose.

  
  II
  
  Before he was subdued for his skill;
  He drank
  a lot of flooding, which was bitter and
  hard. Then he turned to strange And
  standing on the shore strangely light
  and empty.
  
  At his feet, rolled out shells,
  And he
  had hyacinths in her hair, And her beauty,
  he knew, and also That
  this was the consolation of good living.

But
  with unsicherm smile he had them Soon fall, for a great look This
showed him beautiful jail His own incomprehensible fate.

THE BOY IN THE LANDSCAPE

The gardeners uncovered their beds, And
many beggars were everywhere With schwarzverbundnen eyes and on crutches
- But even with the harp and the new flowers The strong scent of the
weak spring flowers.

  
  
  The bare trees were free of all: We looked
  down the river and saw the market And many children played along
the ponds.

  Through this landscape, he went
  slowly And felt their power and knew
  - that To him the world affairs related.
  

  To those foreign children, he went to And was
  ready to unknown threshold Added to bring a
  new life serving. Never occurred to him,
  the riches of his soul; The former paths and memory Verschlungner
fingers and exchanged souls to respect for more than trivial possession.

The

scent of the flowers he was talking only On another beauty - and the
new air Was he still breathing one, but without desire: Except that
he could serve him happy.

  
  
  The ship's cook, a prisoner sings:
  

  Alas, divorced from my family, I lie here
  for many weeks; Oh, and those who
  torment me, Do I have to cook supper-meal.

Purpurflossige
  beautiful fish, They brought me alive, Look of broken eyes Gentle
animals I have to kill.

  
  
  Silence I must kill animals, I have
  beautiful fruit peel And for them that despise me, Fiery spices choose.

And

as I bent the light in Sweet and sharp flavors burrow, Step on into
the heart of freedom Tremendous feelings!

  
  
  Alas, divorced from my family, I lie here for how
  many weeks! Oh, and those who torment me,
  Do I have to cook supper-meal!

  
  THE OLD MAN'S LONGING FOR THE SUMMER
  
  When at last July would instead of March,
  
  Nothing should hold me, I would take an edge, On horseback, by carriage
or train I would come out into the beautiful hill country.

  
  
  As groups of large trees stood close Sycamore,
  elm, maple or oak: How long it was that I saw
  no such!
  
  As I dismounted and were calling The driver: Stop! and goes without
a goal Forward in the Summer Country depth.

  
  
  And under such trees I rested from; In their tops
  were day and night At the same time, and not like in this house,

Where
days are sometimes dull as night And nights pale and lurking as day.

There would be all life, glory and splendor.

  
  
  And out of the shadows in the evening
  light Happiness I step, and a touch down blows But nowhere whispered:
"All this is nothing '.

  
  
  The valley is dark, and where houses
  are Are lights and the darkness at me blows But not of death says
the nocturnal wind.

  
  
  I go and see übern Cemetery Only
  flowers at the last weigh tickets, other things from nothing, I feel
a closeness.

  
  
  And between hazel bushes, already
  gloomy, Water flows out, like a child, so I listen And hear a> This
is futile whisper <!

  
  
  As I pull myself out and quick jump
  In, and when I then lift up your head, Is moon, while I wrestle with
the stream.

  

  Half, I lift myself from the cold wave, And
  a smooth pebble into the country Much
  spin I stand in the moon shell.

  
  And on the moonlit summer land Falls
  far a shadow: this, of so sad Nods here, here behind the pillows
on the wall?

  
  
  So gloomy and sad, half-crouching upright Before Day and evil stares
into the early light And I know that both of us lying in wait for
something?

  
  
  He whom the evil wind in this March Torture so that the nights he
never lies down, Clutching the black hand on his heart?

  
  
  Oh, where is July and the summer land!

  
  VERSE TO A SMALL CHILD
  

  You grow rosy feet, The sun countries are
  looking for: The sun countries are open! remained
  silent on tops of there The air hung the millennia, The endless seas
Are still, still there.

  On the edge of the eternal forest Do
  you want out of the wooden bowl The milk snake
  with the share then?

  This is a happy meal Almost fall into the stars!
  On the edge of the eternal sea Quickly you will find
  a playmate: The good friendly dolphin.

  He will leap to the contrary dryness, And
  he is also sometimes So quiet the eternal
  winds You soon the swelling tears.

  There are countries in the sun The old, sublime
  times For still, still there! The sun,
  with a secret force They will shape the rosy feet, to enter your
eternal country.

  
  
  THE EMPEROR OF CHINA SAYS:

  
  In the middle of everything I'm living, the
  son of heaven.

  My women, my trees, My animals, my ponds
  Includes the first wall, a. Down below are
  my ancestors: Laid out with their weapons, Their crowns on their
heads, As it behooves each one, Stay in the vaults. down to the heart
of the world Roars the progression of my jurisdiction.

   If it was ever interrupted, it was only when Percival had now
and then a moody fit, during which he would keep a sort of sullen silence. Brian respected
these moods, and thought that he understood them. But he found in the end that he had been
as much mistaken about their origin as Percival had once been mistaken in attributing motives
of a mercenary kind to him. And when the cloud passed, Percival would be friendlier and more
genial than ever.

"Of course," said Heron, presently, "if a vessel saw our signal--and hove to, we should have
to send out one of our ingeniously constructed small boats and state our case. Jackson and
I would be the best men for the purpose, I suppose. Then they would send for the rest of you.
A good opportunity for leaving you behind, Brian, eh?"

"A hermit's life would not suit me badly," said Brian, who was lying on his back on a patch
of sand in the shade, with a hat of cocoa-nut fibre tilted over his eyes. "I think I could
easily let you go back without me."

"I shall not do that, you know."

"It is foolish, perhaps, to let our minds dwell on the future," said Brian, after a moment's
pause; "but the more I think of it the more I wonder that your mind is so set upon dragging
me back to England. You know that I don't want to go. You know that that business could be
settled just as well without me as with me; better, in fact. I shall have to stultify myself;
to repudiate my own actions; to write myself down an ass."

"Good for you," said Percival, with an ironical smile.

"Possibly; but I don't see what you gain by it."

"Love of dominion, my dear fellow. I want to drag you as a captive at my chariot-wheels, of
course. We will have a military band at the Dunmuir Station, and it shall play 'See the conquering
hero comes.'"

"Very well. I don't mind assisting at your triumph."

"Hum! My triumph? Wait till that day arrives, and we shall see. What's that fellow making frantic
signs about from that biggest palm-tree? It looks as if----Good Heavens, Brian, it's a sail!"

He dashed the net that he had been making to the ground, and rushed off at the top of his speed
to the place where a pile of wood and seaweed had been heaped to make a bonfire. Brian followed
with almost equal swiftness. The others had already collected at the spot, and in a few minutes
a thin, wavering line of smoke rose up into the air, and flashes of fire began to creep amongst
the carefully-dried fuel.

For a time they all watched the sail in silence. Others had been seen before; others had faded
away into the blue distance, and left their hearts sick and sore. Many
dissenters were summoned before the ecclesiastical courts; Others found it necessary to the indulgence
of the government agent to purchase through gifts, which, for example in drums Wine and guineas
were filled with gloves. The separatists were not jointly Pray without observing precautions as used by
counterfeiters and thieves grain handlers be. The meeting places were frequently changed, the service
was sometimes short before dawn, sometimes held in the middle of the night, around the building
in which the small Flock was gathered, were issued guards to then make a noise when a stranger
approached. The priest was dressed in the garden and through a back door inserted; in some houses
were trap-doors through which he could disappear at risk of occurring. Where nonconformists lived side
by side, often the walls were broken and hidden Communicationsthüren appropriate. No psalm was
sung, and used all sorts of artificial means to avoid that the voice of the preacher to be heard in moments of
fiery fervor outside the walls could. Yet for all this caution, it was often impossible, the vigilance
of the scouts to . Delude Especially in the suburbs of London, the law with the utmost severity
was performed. Several rich people were charged that they were conventicles, searched their
homes strictly and fined up to several thousand pounds. The passionate and fear looser sectaries, who
have been expelled from their protective shelter, gathered then the open air, and decided to reciprocate
violence with violence. A judge of Middlesex, who had learned that in a sand pit, about two
miles from London, Betversammlung a night to be held pressed, with a strong detachment of constables
in the Assembly, and arrested the preacher. But the two-hundred heads Community freed back
to their clergy and struck the officer with his henchmen in the Flight. [156] However, this
was an unusual case, because in general seemed to the Puritan Mind at that time much more effectively
intimidated, than at any prior or subsequent time. The Tory days writer boasted that not a fanatic
in defense his religious views, the tongue or the pen dare move. Dissenterprediger of most perfect
way of life and of excellent education and scholarship were not allowed Who dare to take to the streets
if they do not expose the insults and abuse wanted, what of those whose duty it was to get peace
and quiet upright, not were not only prevented but even encouraged. Some famous theologians were
in prison, including Richard Baxter, and others that bear a quarter-century long oppression
had lost the courage and finally left the country. Among them was John Howe. A lot of people
who used to visit earlier conventicles went, in the parish churches. They made the remark that
the schismatics, who had been driven by fear, apparently comfortable to the state church, light
the difficulty with which they Collecte found and recognized by the inept way, were with them at the
name Jesus bowed. [157]

Many years the Nonconformists of the autumn of 1685, remembered as a time of distress and terror.
Nevertheless, in that autumn had been the first faint signs to notice any change fate, and applied
before the end of eighteen months, intolerant of the king and the intolerant church zealously
to support the party which both were so deeply offended.


There was a good deal of crowding at the ship's sides to look at the new-comers: and, as Percival
sprang on board, with a sense of almost overpowering relief and joy at the sight of his country-men,
a broad, red-faced man with a black beard, came up, and, as soon as he learnt his name, shook
him heartily by the hand.

"So you're Mr. Heron," he said, giving him an oddly interested and approving look. "Well, sir,
we've come a good way for you, and I hope you're glad to see us. You'll find some acquaintances
of yours below."

"Acquaintances?" said Heron, staring.

"There's one, at any rate," said the captain, pushing forward a seaman who was standing at
his elbow, with a broad grin upon his face. "Remember Mason of the Arizona, Mr. Heron? Ah,
well! if you go into the cabin, you'll find someone you remember better." And then the captain
laughed, and Heron saw a smile on the faces round him, which confused him a little, and made
him fancy that something was going wrong. But he had not much time for reflection. He was half-led,
half-pushed, down the companion ladder, but in such a good-humoured, friendly way that he did
not know how to resist; and then the fair-haired young man opened a door and said, "He's here,
sir!" in a tone of triumph, which was certainly not ill bestowed. And then there arose some
sort of confusion, and Percival heard familiar voices, and felt that his hand was half-shaken
off, and that somebody had kissed his cheek. Aug. 1686
    with, again, are some remarkable statements. "It are few or no
    Protestants in this country who do not associated with the Whigs against
    the common enemy would be. "Then again: "Those who were there (in
    England) for Tories took the other side of the water related party
    to the cause of Whigs. "Swift said the same thing a few years
    later to the King Wilhelm: "I remember during my last visit to
    England said the king to that the most stringent Tories with us all
    Whigs would be tolerable. "Letter on the Eucharist silk.]
    

    [Note 161: clergy, which several widely separated have distant
    benefices held that they partly or All the can manage. D.
    Transl.]

    
    [Note 162: The wealth and the negligence of the Anglican clergy
    mentioned the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland Clarendon, one of the
    unverwerflichen witnesses, in the strongest Expressions.]

[Procedure,
which would have to watch James.] James himself appeared at the beginning
of his government have recognized these truths to be completely.

The confusion in Ireland, he said, do not spring from the division between Catholics and Protestants,
but from the cleavage between Irishmen and Englishmen. [163] The conclusions that he made this
quite right premiss could draw were close enough, unfortunately for him and for Ireland it escaped
him.

If only the national hatred could have been mitigated, there can be little doubt that the religious
animosity, which is not as harsh penal laws in England and Test Act was obtained by carefully
monitored, would be off by itself. The attenuation of a national hatred as that which the two tribes
inhabiting Ireland against each other inspired, however, could not be the work of a few years.
But it was a plant to the wise and good prince would have much to contribute, and Jacob would
with advantage made, how they were none of his predecessors or his successors to the side. As
an Englishman, while he was a Catholic, half of the ruling, half of the subject Caste, and was
therefore especially suitable for a mediator between the two. It is should not adopt hard to
describe the way he would have. He had the inviolability the existing distribution of land
ownership and decide this decision in a manner to announce that calmed the concerns of the new owner and
any bold aspirations of the old owner put down. Whether in the great injustices Bills had occurred
or not was not material, this change in ownership, he may now meet or have been unjust had
occurred so long ago that a knocking over of the same the foundations of society would have shaken. It
has all the rights for a period of limitation . Give After thirty-five factual ones possession,
after twenty-five years one through the law solemnly guaranteed possession, after numerous leases
and lease modifications, Pledges and bequests it was too late to look for deficiencies in the legal titles.
It would therefore be able to always happen something to the wounded feelings of the Irish Gentry
to heal and her lower back aufzuhelfen prosperity. The settlers lived in very good conditions.
They had their possessions by buildings, plantings and fences improved significantly, and the
rent had doubled within a few years, trade flourished and the state revenues, which amounted
annually to about three hundred thousand pounds, covered not only plenty of all administrative
costs, but also showed a surplus, was sent to England. There was no doubt that the next coming
together in Dublin Parliament, although it is almost exclusively represented the English interest,
in recognition to preserve the royal promise, this interest in all his legal rights, would be willing
to grant the king a very significant sum, to ensure that such indigenous Families who had been
unlawfully deprived of to compensate at least partially. On This crept ended in our time, the French government
disputes that Güterconfiscation through the most extensive that has ever taken place in Europe
in the wake had been. Would also Jacob, when he was with his most loyal Protestant Rathgeber would
be guided, one of the main evil that weighs on Ireland, or at least significantly have softened. [164]

After
he had done so, he would have had to work to the hostile tribes by impartial Protectors of their
rights and reconciled by curbing the excesses of both with each other. He had the natives, who
gave himself the unbridled wantonness of barbarity, with the same to punish severely, as the
settlers who had abused the dominance of the civilization. As far as the lawful authority of the
crown - and they ranged widely in Ireland - would Nobody that enabled his integrity and skill
for office because of his be origin or belief for any public position
held unfit should.

A Roman Catholic king with a standing of its free range State income, had probably no great difficulty
of cooperation by Catholic can keep prelates and priests at the great works of reconciliation
insured. Much would But still the healing influence of time must be left. The natives were still
of the settlers activity, concern for the future of the arts Life and the English language had
to learn. There could be no equality between People living in houses, and people who lived in
houses, between people who of bread, and people who are fed on potatoes, between people, which
the noble Language of great philosopher and poet said, and people who are perverse pride in boasted
that they could not distort their lips to a jargon in which the "progress science "and the" paradise
lost one, "were written. [165] One can, however, with good reason to assume that if the above-described
conciliatory policy of the Government been pursued consistently, would like all barriers gradually
and that of the hostility which have been the curse of Ireland is no more traces would be left behind,
as of the same bitter hostility that once in England between the Saxons and the Normans raged.

[Note
163: Clarendon reminds the king thereto in one of 14. March 1685 / 86 dated letters, and adds: "This
is undoubtedly a very correct view. "]

[Note 164: Clarendon strongly recommended this procedure and was of the opinion that the Irish
Parliament his part to would help. See his letter to Ormond, 28 Aug. 1686.]

[Note 165: It was an O'Neill of high repute, which once said that it would not be proper for
him, the mouth To tilt to babble in English. - Preface to the Hibernia + Anglicana +.]

[His mistakes.] Unfortunately, Jacob was not a mediator, but on the contrary, the most violent and
reckless partisan.

    Instead of the mutual hatred between the two populations to appease,
    he roused him to a hitherto unprecedented fervor. He determined
    its position to turn to each other and the Protestant settlers under
the feet of the Popish Celts to throw.

    Being a member of the Established Church, and have English blood
    in his veins, was in his eyes, unable to bourgeois as clothing
    militaire offices.

    He reflected on the Plan, half of the whole land of the island
    confisciren again and to distribute new, and this idea he
    gave to understand so clearly that one party soon seized with
    a fear was to appease it to anybody for free, the other was full
of hopes He later tried in vain to knock down.

This was only the smallest part of his Crime and its perversity. He took the deliberate decision
not only the indigenous to put Ireland in the undivided possession of their country, but also
as tools of their to operate the establishment of a despotism in England. It was so successful, as
he could have foreseen. The colonists opposed to the stubborn courage of their Tribe and the mother
country regarded her as their own thing with law. It was now a desperate struggle for a terrible
use. All that is dear to a nation, stand on both sides at stake, and we can blame neither the
Irishman nor the British, that in this extreme danger to the law followed the self-preservation. The
fight was terrible, but short, and the weaker part of subject. His fate was hard, however, was the
cruelty, with which he was treated, if not to justify, to excuse him, for it met him but all
that could add to him only the tyranny, but no more than himself the enemy would have done if he
had overcome him. The result of this senseless attempt England with the help of Ireland to subdue,
was that the Irishman the woodcutters and water carriers the English were. The old landlord lost
in the attempt, what was lost again to conquer, even the greater part of what they had left.
The temporary Preponderance of the papacy called such a series of barbaric laws against Popery
show that this notorious Irish law book in the whole Christian world literally was. These were
the bitter fruits of Jacob's policy.

We have already seen that one of his first steps after he became king, the Ormond's recall from Ireland.
Ormond was the head of the English interest in this country, he was an ardent supporter of the Protestant
faith and its power far exceeded that of an ordinary Lord Lieutenant, first because he is the
chief and most settlers, and secondly because he is not only the head of the Civil Administration,
but also the commander of the troops. The king was not inclined at that time, the government only
to leave Irish hands, had heard him say, in fact, a native viceroy would soon become an independent ruler.
[166] For the moment he decided, therefore, the Power which Ormond had had to divide the civil service
and an English Protestant Lord Lieutenant and the command of the Army and an Irish Roman Catholic
to General transferred. The Lord Lieutenant was Clarendon, the general was Tyrconnel.

Tyrconnel was born, as we have said, from one of the degenerate families
of the old Colony, which was usually lumped together with the original
population of Ireland.

At times, he said, although in a fit of boastfulness with Norman wantonness of the Celtic barbarians,
but in reality, the natives had all his sympathies [167]. The Protestant settlers he hated,
and they replied his hatred. Clarendon's inclinations were quite different kind, but he was
to character, out of interest and principle of a compliant Courtier. His courage was low, not his financial
circumstances, shiny, and the political Doctrines, which preached the Anglican Church at that
time only too eager, had his Spirit of imprinted deep. His skills were too good not to be despised and
under a Kings, he would probably have been an excellent viceroy.

[Note 166: Sheridan-handwritten. among the Stuart papers. I must here acknowledge the courtesy with which Mr.
Glover in me my research for this valuable manuscripts has supported. From the instruction,
which in 1692 for Jacob their son put on shows, that until recently
he believes was, Ireland could not without risk an Irish Lord Lieutenant
be trusted.]

[Note 167: Sheridan-handwritten.]

[Clarendon's arrival
in Ireland as Lord Lieutenant.] It took about three quarters between
the recall and Ormond's arrival in Dublin's Clarendon.

In the meantime the king by a college of judges represents Lord, the Military Administration
but was Tyrconnel's hands. The intentions of the palace started to gradually unveil already.
It came from White Hall, a royal command to disarm the people. This command took Tyrconnel,
as far as it related to the English, with severely. Although the country by bands of robbers
was rendered unsafe, a Protestant gentleman could scarcely permission, a pair of pistols to be
allowed to keep. The native country people, however, were left arms. [168] The Joy of the colonists
was so great to finally appointed in December 1685 Tyrconnel to London Clarendon and even
Dublin was sent. But it soon became clear that the real seat of Government does not Dublin,
but London was. Every post that came across the St. George Channel, brought News of the boundless
influence which Tyrconnel on Irish affairs exercised.

    They said he should Marquis, yes even Duke, he was to the command
    of the Forces are obtained, and were asked to organize the army
    and the courts again. [169]
    
    [Note 168: Clarendon to Rochester, 19 Feb. 1685/86.]
    
    [His insults.] Clarendon felt deeply hurt when he saw that he was
only a child Member of the administration, whose leader he to be expected.

    He complained the fact that all what he was doing disfigured by his
detractors, and that the most important decisions in relation to the
country he managed weeks before the Lord Lieutenant only Suggestion
had been like this, taken in Westminster, publicly made known in the
coffee houses would be discussed and communicated in hundreds of private
letters.

His personal reputation, he said, come here little considered, but it was no small matter if the
representative the majesty of the throne, an object of scorn of the people would be made. [170]

[Note
170: Clarendon to Rochester and Sunderland, 2 March 1685/86, and at Rochester, 14 March.]

[Terror among the colonists.] A panic spread like wildfire among the English settlers, as they
saw that the viceroy, her countryman and a Protestant Faith's brother, was not able to afford them
the protection they expect from him had. They learned through their own bitter experience what it
is, a subjugated caste be. The natives showered them with charges of treason and sedition.
One Protestant had corresponded with Monmouth, the other one had four or five years ago when the
Exclusion was deliberate, disrespectful expressed about the king, and the testimony dishonorable
man was in support of any such accusation is always at hand.
 He was always in a better temper when he had
been talking to Angela. He did most of the talking--it must be owned that he liked to hear
himself talk--and she made a perfect listener. He, in turn, amused and interested her very
much. She had never come across a man of his type before. His trenchant criticisms of literature,
his keen delight in politics, his lively argumentativeness, were charming to her. He had always
had the knack of quarrelling with Elizabeth, even when he was most devoted to her; but he did
not quarrel with Angela. She quieted him; he hardly knew how to be irritable in her presence.

The story of Kitty's marriage excited his deepest ire. He was indignant with his sister, disgusted
with Hugo Luttrell. He himself told it, with some rather strong expressions of anger, to Brian,
who listened in perfect silence.

"What can you say for your cousin?" said Percival, turning upon him fiercely. "What sort of
a fellow is he? Do you consider him fit to marry my sister?"

"No, I don't," Brian answered. "I am sorry to say so, but I don't think Hugo is in the least
to be relied on. I have been fond of him, but----"

"A screw loose somewhere, is there? I thought as much."

"He may do better now that he is married," said Brian. But he felt that it was poor comfort.

They went straight back to England, and it was curious to observe how naturally and continuously
a certain division of the party was always taking place. Brian and Elizabeth were, of course,
a great deal together; it seemed equally inevitable that Percival should pair off with Angela,
and that Mrs. Norman, Rupert Vivian, and Mr. Fane should be left to entertain each other.

It was on the last day of the voyage that Brian sought out Percival and took him by the arm.
"Look here, Heron," he said. "I have never thanked you for what you have done for me."

Percival was smoking. He took his pipe out of his mouth, and said, "Don't," very curtly, and
then replaced the meerschaum, and puffed at it energetically.

"But I must."

"Stop," said Heron. "Don't go on till you've heard me speak." He took his pipe in his hand
and knocked it meditatively against the bulwarks. "There's a great deal that might be said
on both sides. Do you think that any of us have acted wisely or rightly throughout this business?"

"I don't think I have. I think Elizabeth has."

"Oh, Elizabeth. Well, she's a woman. Women have a strange sort of pleasure in acting properly.
But I don't think that even your Elizabeth was quite perfect. Now, don't knock me down; she's
my cousin, and I knew her years before you did. She's your cousin, too, by the way; but that
does not signify. What I wanted to say was this:--We have all been more or less idiotic. I
made a confounded fool of myself once or twice, and, begging your pardon, Brian, I think you
did, too."

"I think I did," said Brian, reflectively.

"Elizabeth will take care of you now, and see that you have your due complement of commonsense,"
said Percival. "Well, look here. I've been wrong and I've been right at times; so have you.
I have something to thank you for, and perhaps you feel the same sort of thing towards me.
I think it is a pity to make a sort of profit and loss calculation as to which of the two has
been the more wronged, or has the more need to be grateful. Let bygones be bygones. I want
you and Elizabeth to promise me not to speak or think of those old days again. We can't be
friends if you do. I was very hard on you both sometimes: and--well, you know the rest. If
you forgive, you must also forget."

Brian looked at him for a moment. "Upon my word, Percival," he said, warmly, "I can't imagine
why she did not prefer you to me. You're quite the most large-hearted man I ever knew."

"Oh, come, that's too strong," said Heron, carelessly. "You're a cut above me, you know, in
every way. You will suit her admirably. As for me, I'm a rough, coarse sort of a fellow--a
newspaper correspondent, a useful literary hack--that's all. I never quite understood until--until
lately--what my position was in the eyes of the world."

"Why, I thought you considered your profession a very high one," said Brian.

"So I do. Only I'm at the bottom of the tree, and I want to be at the top."

There was a pause. A little doubt was visible upon Brian's face: Percival saw it and understood.

"There's one thing you needn't do," he said, with a sort of haughty abruptness. "Don't offer
me help of any kind. I won't stand it. I don't want charity. If I could be glad that I was
not going to marry Elizabeth, it would be because she is a rich woman. I wonder, by-the-bye,
what Dino Vasari is going to do."

They had not heard of Dino's death when Percival left England.

"If I were you," Percival went on, "I should not stand on ceremony. I should get a special
licence in London and marry her at once. You'll have a bother about settlements and provisions
and compromises without end, if you don't."

Brian smiled, and even coloured a little at the proposition. "I could not ask her to do it,"
he said.

"Then I'll ask her," said Percival with his inimitable sang-froid. "In the very nick of time,
here she comes. Mademoiselle, I was talking about you."

Elizabeth smiled. The colour had come back to her cheeks, the brightness to her eyes. She was
the incarnation of splendid health and happiness. Percival looked from her to Brian, remarking
silently the gravity and nobleness of his expression and the singular refinement of his features,
which could be seen so much more plainly, now that he had returned to his old fashion of wearing
a moustache and small pointed beard, instead of the disfiguring mass of hair with which he
had once striven to disguise his face. Percival was clean shaven, except for the heavy, black
moustache, which he fingered as he spoke.

"You are my children by adoption," he said, cheerfully, "and I am going to speak to you as
a grandfather might. Elizabeth, my opinion is, that if you want to avoid vexatious delays,
you had better get married to this gentleman here before you present yourself in Scotland at
all. You have no idea how much it would simplify matters. Brian won't suggest such a thing;
he is afraid you will think that he wants to make ducks and drakes of your money----"

"His money," said Elizabeth.

"Well, his or yours, or that Italian fellow's--I don't see that it matters much. Why don't
you stop in London, get a special licence, and be married from Vivian's house? I know he would
be delighted."

"It is easy to make the suggestion," said Brian, "but perhaps Elizabeth would not like such haste."

"I will do what you like," said Elizabeth.

"Let me congratulate you," remarked Percival to Brian; "you are about to marry that treasure
amongst wives--a woman who tries to please you and not herself. Well, I have broken the ice,
settle the matter as you please."

"No, Percival, don't go," said Elizabeth. But he laughed, shook his head, and left them to
themselves.

As usual he went to Angela, and allowed himself to look as gloomy as he chose. She asked him
what was the matter.

"I have been playing the heavy father, and giving away the bride," he said. And then he told
her what he had advised.

"You want to have it over," she said, looking at him with her soft, serious eyes.

"To tell the truth, I believe I do."

"It is hard on you, now."

"Not a bit," said Percival, taking a seat beside her. "I ought not to mind. If I were Luttrell,
I probably should glory in self-sacrifice, and say I didn't mind. Unfortunately I do. But nothing
will drive me to say that it is hard. All's fair in love and war. Brian has proved himself
the better man."

"Not the stronger man," said Angela, almost involuntarily.

"You think not? I don't think I have been strong! I have been wretchedly weak sometimes. Ah,
there they come; they have settled it between them. They look bright, don't they?"

Angela made no answer, she felt a little indignant with Brian and Elizabeth for looking bright.
It was decidedly inconsiderate towards Percival.

But Percival made no show of his wound to anybody except Angela. Now he was no longer young and lost with severe physical suffering the excesses
of his youth, but neither age nor disease had a significant Change in his character and his
manners produced. Whenever he opened his mouth, raged, cursed and swore he was still furious
with such vehemence that casual observer him as the most unruly rake. The large crowd did not
understand that a man who even in the fasting state, boastful and furious end to employers
than others in the Drunkenness, and who seemed to be completely unable to hide any emotion
or keep a secret, in fact a cold-hearted, far-sighted and wohlberechnender Minions could be. However,
Talbot was one such person. His hypocrisy was far higher and rarer species than those which had florirt
in Barebone's Parliament. For not one who is a consummate hypocrite, his viciousness behind
a dummy Goodness knows to hide, but he who the vice that he is not afraid of open to contribute
to the show, as larvae used to disguise darker and more remunerative vices what to hide in his
interest.

When Talbot was charged by James Earl of Tyrconnel, he had during
the nine months between the death of Karl's and the beginning of Lord
Clarendon's government of the troops in Ireland commanded.

When the new Lord Lieutenant was in the process, from London to Dublin issued, the General from
Dublin to London was summoned. Dick Talbot had long been well known been all the way, he had
to be covered, and there were between Chester and the capital Guest house in which he would
not have had Handel. Wherever he went, he pressed the law to mock horse, swore on the cooks and postilions,
and led by his outrageous Rodomontaden almost casseroles. The Reformation, he said to the people, everything
was ruined, but it would have come back good times, the Catholics would soon be back to normal
and then the heretics should pay for everything. So continually raging and blaspheming like a man
possessed He came to the court. [52] As soon as he arrived, he allied himself most closely with
Castel Maine, Dover and Alde Ville. People shouted unanimously for war against the Church and
the State Constitution. They said their commander, that he does his religion and the dignity of his
crown was guilty, by the cries of the heretical demagogues not to let them vex and Parliament at
the outset to imply that he intended to stay despite the opposition of the Lord effect and the opposition
nothing else will, as to make him a hard master.

[Note 52: Mémoires de Grammont + +, + Life of Edward, Earl of Clarendon +; correspondence of Henry
Earl of Clarendon to several places, especially the letter of 29
Dec. 1685, Sheridan Mspte. among the Stuart papers, Ellis's correspondence
of 12 Jan. 1686.]

[Disposition of the foreign ambassadors.] Each
of the parties, in which the Court was split, was eager foreign allies.

    The ambassadors of Spain, the German Empire and the States-General
    were now just trying so diligently to support Rochester, as
    previously Halifax had supported. Barillon offered his influence
    in the opposite direction on, and he was in it from a standing
    in the rank below it, in his talents but far superior Andren French
agent support: from Bonrepaux.

Barillon was not without diplomatic Ability and possessed a high degree the kindness and the
fine education, through the the then French nobility distinguished. But his mind was the requirements
his important post not equal. He had become phlegmatic and comfortable, loved social Amusements
and pleasures of the table over the affairs and development at major events usually only after
a vigorous activity when it admonitions and self referrals from Versailles had received [53]. Bonrepaux
had the prudence and activity, which he shown as secretary of the Navy Board, soared out of the darkness
and he was to learn the secrets of the trade policy. At the end of 1685 he was with several
special assignments of high importance to London sent. It should have a Commercial contract
negotiations should determine the condition of the English fleets and shipyards and report on, and
finally the Huguenot refugees, of which it was assumed they would be shortages and exile have
become so tame that it almost every condition of Reconciliation would be grateful for to make
some suggestions. The new ambassador was plebeian origin, his form was like a dwarf, his face
and his ridiculously ugly Gascon dialect of his home, but his bright mind, his rare insight and
his witty spirit enabled him quite excellent for his post. Despite its lower Origin, and his
repulsive appearance, he was soon to be a highly agreeable companion and skilled diplomat
known. While he joked with the Duchess of Mazarin, with Waller St. Evremond and discussed scientific
issues and corresponded with La Fontaine knew He managed to gain an accurate knowledge of the
English national affairs. His skill in naval affairs recommended him to James, who for many years
the business of the Admiralty much attention had turned to this business and so well understood
as it ever was able to understand something. They talked every day about the state of open Ships
and the wharf. The result of this intercourse was, as it was to be expected, that the wise and
vigilant Frenchman Jacob's skills and character despise thoroughly learned. He said the world had
overestimated his Britannic Majesty as much as they possess less formal and more virtues than Karl.
[54]

Although the two envoys of Louis the same purpose pursued, so they beat it wisely different routes. They
were divided into the yard; Bonrepaux wrong mainly with Rochester and its surroundings, Barillon
was especially with the opposite party name. The result was that they sometimes the same event by
different Aspects considered. The best clues that it gives about the quarrel, which White
Hall then moved to be found in their despatches.

[Note 53: See his later correspondence in several Points; St. Evremond ditto; the letters of
Madame de Sevigne to Beginning of 1689.

Also see the Instructions for you Tallard after the Peace of Ryswick, in the French Archives.]

[Note
54: St. Simon's memoirs, 1697, 1719; Evremond St., La Fontaine; Bonrepaux to Seignelay 28 Jan (February
7) and 8 (18) Feb. 1686th]

[Cleavage between the Pope and the Society of Jesus.] As each of the two parties at court Jacob
had a support of foreign princes, so was each of them by a church
Authority, before James had great respect for support.

    The Pope was for a legal temperate and procedures and the institutions
    of his views were the apostolic nuncio and the Vicar. [55] On the
    other side was a body whose weight even the weight of the Tantamount
    papacy: the powerful Jesuit order.
    

    That on this occasion these two great spiritual forces, which once
    separated appeared to be connected, faced hostile, is a very important
    and remarkable Circumstance.

For a period of more than a thousand years, the regular clergy, the Mainstay of the Holy See have
been. This chair she had against episcopal interference protected and the protection granted to them
had they richly repaid. Without their efforts would be the bishop of Rome probably only the honorary
head of a great prelate aristocracy been. With the help of Benedictine Gregory VII was able, at
the same time, the Frankish to fight the Emperor and the secular priesthood. With the aid of
the Dominicans and the Franciscans Innocent III destroyed. the Albigensian
sectaries.

[Note 55: Adda, 16 (26) Nov. 7, (17) Dec. and 21 (31) Dec. 1685th Adda gives in these dispatches
are substantial grounds for a Comparison by abolishing the penal laws and maintaining the Oath.
He called the dispute with the parliament gran a + " Disgrazia "+, and implied repeatedly that the
King had by a constitutional due process for Catholics gain much may attempt, however, their situation
by illegal means to , Would bring great harm likely to improve on it.]

[The Jesuit Order.] Was in the sixteenth century, the papacy, the
then new and was more terrible dangers threatened than ever before,
saved by a new religious order, with the ardent enthusiasm met and
organized with extraordinary skill was.

    As the Jesuits to save the Papacy appeared, it was hovering in the
    greatest danger, but from that moment the tide turned lucky. Protestantism,
    which for a whole All people age had carried away with it was hampered
    in its progress, and driven back with rapidity from the foot
    of the Alps to the shores of the Baltic Sea. The order was still
    not a hundred years, so he had the whole world with memorials
    great deeds and suffering for faith fulfilled. No religious community
    was a List of eminent men have so many ways, no other had the field
of their activity expanded to such an extent and yet no one ever had
such a perfect unity of the Thought and action prevailed.

There was no area of ​​the globe, not a field of scientific or practical life, not related to
the Jesuits. They guided the decisions the Kings, they deciphered Latin inscriptions, they observed
the orbits of the satellites of Jupiter, they gave out whole libraries: controversy, casuistry,
history, books on Optics, alcäische Oden, expenses of the church fathers, Madrigals, catechisms
and level. The higher Education of youth was almost entirely in their hands, and was of them with
excellent Skill passed. They had just discovered the point up to which one with the spiritual
Education can go without fear of spiritual emancipation. Even their enemies had , Concede that
in the arts to lead the youthful mind, and not to make their Had the same. In addition, they
used with great zeal and success the Kanzelberedtsamkeit. With even greater zeal and even
greater successes but they were dedicated to the service of the confessional. By the whole Catholic
Europe, they were in possession of the secrets of every government and almost every upstanding
family. Among countless shapes, elegant gentlemen, as a simple Countrymen as a Puritan preacher and she
slipped from a Protestant country in the other. They migrated to countries, their research or
mercantile greed or had caused scientific curiosity ever a stranger. She was found in Mandarin
dress in Beijing as a warden of the observatory, we found them with a spade in his hand in Paraguay,
where they taught the savages in the rudiments of agriculture. But where they may be and what they
want to drive too, her spirit was always and everywhere the same: unlimited Devotion to the common
cause and unconditional obedience to the central government. None of them has or had chosen the
profession itself. Whether at the Jesuit the Arctic Circle or live under the equator, whether
he should spend his days giving the Vatican to arrange gems and comparing handwriting, or so,
the savages of the southern hemisphere ask that they do not want to eat each other, these were
the questions whose decision He left with deep humility others. They needed him in Lima, he swam with
the next fleet to the Atlantic oceans, it was used in Baghdad, he waded with the next caravan
through the sands of the desert. There was need of his services in a country where his life was more
uncertain than that of a wolf, where it was a crime to harbor him, and where in the public
squares plugged heads and members of his brothers told him what he had to expect, he went to meet
without complaint and without hesitation to his fate. This heroic spirit of sacrifice is not now
extinct. As in our day a new and terrible disease around the world made the rounds, as in several
large cities the fear of all the bonds that hold together a society torn apart, when the secular
clergy leave their flocks had not buy as medical minds with money was, and even the strongest
natural affections of love had given way to life, found to the Jesuits at the bedside, the
bishop and priest, doctor and nurse, father and Mother had left, down inclined to the festering
lips to the faint hint of to catch last confession and the passing penitent sinner the image of the
dying Redeemer hold until the last moment.

But with the Society of Jesus own admirable energy, unselfishness and Self-denial were big mistakes
mixed. It was, and not without reason, claims that the ardent public spirit of the Jesuits
indifferent to his rest, his freedom and made his life, he also just as indifferent to truth and
compassion do that no way it seems without permission if it could promote the interest of his religion,
and that he understood the interest in his religion too often the interests of his order. It was
claimed that his role in the most abominable intrigues and conspiracies, of which tells the story
to see clearly is that he, only in the attachment unchangeable in his society, in some countries,
the greatest enemy of freedom, in others the most dangerous enemy was the order. The great victory,
which he in won cause of the Church were to have boasted, in the opinion of many excellent
Members of this church more apparent than real. He had indeed with what looks wonderful Successful
effort to subjugate the world its laws, but as he had done this, he had also relaxed the laws
to fit the spirit of the world. Rather than strive to human nature on the high, marked by divine
teachings and divine example raising stage, he had this level decreased, until it is below
the average level human nature was. He boasted of masses of converts, which in the remote areas
of the East had been baptized, but it was reported that many of these
converts the facts, based on which the whole doctrine of the Gospel,
has been fraudulently concealed were and that others could provide
protection against persecution, that, before the pictures false gods
knelt down while they prayed in silence Paternoster and Ave Maria.

And such tricks should not have been applied only in heathen lands. It No wonder that people
of all classes, and especially the highest, to the confessional the Jesuit temple crowded,
for no one left that confessionals unsatisfied. Here Allen was the priest everything. He was
just only so much severity, so that the spiritual before his Tribunal knee ends were not driven
in a Dominican or Franciscan church. If he was a truly pious soul before him, he spoke in the
holy tone of the first Fathers of the Church, but at the very large part of the people who
have religion enough to they worry if they have done something bad, but not enough to avoid evil,
He followed a very different system.
 Fane will help me; I feel rather
helpless at present."

"Can you turn back with me for a few minutes?"

"Certainly."

They walked for a few steps side by side, he with his hand resting on her arm for the sake
of guidance. The soft spring breezes played upon their faces; the scent of wild flowers came
to their nostrils, the song of building birds to their ears. But they noted none of these things.

Vivian stopped short at last, and spoke authoritatively.

"Now, Kitty, what does this mean? Why can you not see your brother and me when we call upon you?"

"My husband does not wish it," she said, faintly.

"Why not?"

"I don't know." Then, in a more decided tone: "He likes to thwart my wishes, that is all."

"That was why you warned Angela not to answer your letter?"

"Yes." Then, under her breath:--"I was afraid."

"But, my child, what are you afraid of?"

She uttered a short, stifled sob.

"I can't tell you," she said.

"Surely," said Rupert, "he would not hurt you?"

"No," she said, "perhaps not. I do not know."

There was a dreariness in her tone which went to Rupert's heart.

"Take courage," he said. "Brian and Elizabeth will be in Dunmuir to-night. Shall they come
to see you?"

"Oh, yes, yes, yes!" cried Kitty. "Let them come at once--at once, tell them. You will see
them, will you not?" She had forgotten Rupert's blindness. "If they come, I shall be prevented
from meeting them, perhaps; I know I shall not be allowed to talk to them alone. Tell Mr. Luttrell
to come and live at Netherglen. Tell him to turn us out. I shall be thankful to him all my
life if he turns us out. I want to go!"

"You want to leave Netherglen?"

"Yes, yes, as quick as possible. Tell him that Mrs. Luttrell wants him--that she is sorry for
having been so harsh to him. I know it. I can see it in her eyes. I tell her everything that
I hear about him, and I know she likes it. She is pleased that he has married Elizabeth. Tell
him to come to-night."

"To-night?" said Rupert. He began to fear that her troubles had affected her brain.

"Yes, to-night. Remember to tell him so. To-morrow may be too late. Now, go, go. He may come
home at any moment; and if he saw you"--she caught her breath with a sob--"if he saw you here,
I think that he would kill me."

"Kitty, Kitty! It cannot be so bad as this."

"Indeed, it is--and worse than you know," she said, bitterly. "Now let me lead you back. Thank
you for coming. And tell Brian--be sure you tell Brian to come home to-night. It is his right,
nobody can keep him out. But not alone. Tell him not to come alone."

It was with these words ringing in his ears that Rupert was driven back to Dunmuir.

Brian and his wife arrived about nine o'clock in the evening, as they had said in the letter
which Mr. Colquhoun had received. Vivian, wrought up by this time to a high pitch of excitement,
did not wait five minutes before pouring the whole of his story into Brian's ear. Brian's eyes
flashed, his face looked stern as he listened to Kitty's message.

"The hound!" he said. "The cur! I expected almost as much. I know now what I never dreamt of
before. He is a cowardly villain, and I will expose him this very night."

"Remember poor Kitty," said Elizabeth.

"I will spare her as much as possible, but I will not spare him. Do you know, Vivian, that
he tried to murder Dino Vasari? There is not a blacker villain on the face of the earth. And
to think that all this time my mother has been at his mercy!"

"His mother!" ejaculated Mr. Colquhoun in Percival's ear, with a chuckle of extreme satisfaction,
"I'm glad he's come back to that nomenclature. Blood's thicker than water; and I'll stand to
it, as I always have done, that this Brian's the right one after all."

"It's the only one there is, now," said Percival, "Vasari is dead."

"Poor laddie! Well, he was just too good for this wicked world," said the lawyer, with great
cheerfulness, "and it would be a pity to grudge him to another. And what are you after now, Brian?"

"I'm going up to Netherglen."

"Without your dinner?"

"What do I care for dinner when my mother's life may be in danger?" said Brian.

"Tut, tut! Why should it be in danger to-night of all nights in the year?" said Mr. Colquhoun,
testily.

"Why? Can you ask? Have you not told me yourself that my mother made a will before her illness,
leaving all that she possessed to Hugo? Depend upon it, he is anxious to get Netherglen. When
he hears that I have come back he will be afraid. He knows that I can expose him most thoroughly.
He is quite capable of trying to put an end to my mother's life to-night. And that is what
your sister meant."

"Don't forget her warning. Don't go alone," said Vivian.

"You'll come with me, Percival," said Brian. Argyle divided his Highlanders in three regiments and went to the
appointment of the officers.

[Argyle's quarrels with his companions.] The already begun in Holland squabbles but had not ceased
during the whole previous course of the expedition, in Tarbet but they were more violent than ever. The
Committee was itself in the patriarchal Supremacy of the Earl get involved at the Campbells
and not even allow him to military Rank of his kinsmen to determine according to their own discretion.
While these contentious Disturber of the peace he sought to wrest his power in the Highlands,
they maintained their own correspondence with the Netherlands and exchanged letters, the nominal
general never were communicated. Hume and his allies had the overall supervision of the stores
reserved and they led this important branch of the military administration with a nonchalance
which was different from infidelity hardly could destroy the weapons, wasted the food and were living
in lavish opulence at a time where they all subjects with the example
of moderation have to go ahead.

The big question now was whether the Highlands and the Netherlands [30], the seat of war should
be. The Earl's main goal was for now, his authority over his own territory to To fix the foreign
clans, which had broken out in Perthshire Argyleshire again and drive out its old headquarters
at Inverary retake. Then he could hope four to five thousand swords have at his disposal, and
with such force would he have been able, these wild areas against the whole power of the Kingdom
to defend Scotland, as well as an excellent basis for offensive operations have won. This seems to
have been the most sensible way to be, who was open to him. Rumbold, the excellent training school
had been through and which one, because he was English, could expect him to an impartial arbitrator
between the Scottish factions would be that, all that stood in his power to assist the Earl.
Hume and Cochrane, however, were quite intractable, their jealousy of Argyle was stronger,
in fact, than the wish that the expedition should succeed. They saw that he's between mountains
and lakes formed at the tip of a mostly members of his own tribe Army will be able to break their
resistance and the full authority of a general exercise. They whispered that the Dutch are the
only ones the really good thing close to his heart, and that Campbell's neither freedom nor for
the Church of God but only for Mac Callum More had taken up arms. Cochrane said he would go
to Ayrshire, and if he alone, should go with nothing but a pitchfork in his hand. After much reluctance,
finally agreed Argyle against his better conviction in it, that his little army was divided. He
remained with Rumbold in the Highlands and Cochrane and Hume joined at the head of the corps,
which sailed to invade the Netherlands.

Cochrane's goal was to Ayrshire, but the coast of this county was from British frigates guarded
and the adventurers had to therefore drive up the mouth of the Clyde to Greenock, the then a
small, was of a single row of straw huts existing fishing village, now but a large, thriving port,
its customs revenue, the Gesammteinkünfte which the Stuarts from the kingdom of Scotland subjected
to exceed five times. stood at Greenock a detachment of militia; Cochrane but took food and was
therefore decided to land. Hume raised objections, but Cochrane was laid out and ordered an officer
named Elphinstone to go with twenty men in a boat to the shore. But the contentious spirit the
leader had infected all ranks. Elphinstone said he was only required to reasonably to obey orders,
but this is unreasonable, in short, he will not go. Major Fullarton, a good man, respected by all parties,
but it was a special friend of Argyle, undertook it to land with only twelve men and succeeded in
spite of the fire, from the coast was directed at him. There ensued a small battle and the militia
retreated. Cochrane marched in Greenock, is procured Mehlvorrath, but found the people were
not inclined to Insurrection.

[Note 30: namely, the Scottish.

    D. Transl.]

[Mood of the Scottish nation.] The public mood in Scotland was in fact not as the exiles, which
by their class at any time own blindness infatuated, they had expected. The Government was of hateful
and hated, but the malcontents were split into factions, which were disposed against each other
almost as hostile as against their rulers, and showed no particular desire of these parties to the incident
to join. Many spoke from the rebellion any prospect of success, and the courage of many Other
had been broken by long and cruel oppression effectively. However, there were a class of enthusiasts
who were not accustomed to the prospects of success to consider, not the pressure of the tamed,
but on the contrary, bitter to the extreme had, but these people saw little difference between
Argyle and Jacob. Her anger had risen to such a degree that what Others have called any ardor
would, in their eyes laodicäische lukewarm. weighed on a past of Earl Spots, which they regarded
as the most disgraceful apostasy. The same Highlanders, he is now calling for the extermination
of prelacy, he had a few years earlier for the defense the same times. Were slaves, who knew
nothing of religion and do not care about them, which were ready for Synodalverfassung for episcopacy
and papacy to fight, as Mac Callum More precisely, it was pleased to command, worthy ally for the chosen
people God? The held in indecent and intolerant tone of this manifesto appeared fanatics as
a cowardly and worldly concoction. have a constitution, as it gave them Argyle and afterwards
they would like a more powerful and happier liberators gave them, they seemed no combat worthy. They
demanded not only freedom of conscience for himself, but also absolute Dominion over the conscience
of others, not merely Presbyterian doctrine, constitution and worship, but the Covenant in its
extreme austerity. They were to meet only in that all purposes, concerning whom there is a civil society,
the rule of a theological System have been sacrificed. He who believes that no form of church government
a violation the charity is worthy, who recommended that understanding and tolerance, which
ranged between Jehovah and Baal, as they put it. Who acts like the murder of Cardinal Beatoun and Archbishop
Sharpe damn, fell into the same error for which power Saul as king of Israel had been rejected.
All measures, including through which civilized and Christian people of the horrors of war
were to be mitigated, the Lord is an abomination. Pardon was allowed to be taken nor given.
A frenzied Malay, one of a heap Persecuted mad dog: these were the role models who are warriors
who just self-defense to fought, should take as a model. For the reasons by which statesmen and
generals in their steps, can channel these zealots were absolutely impervious. If a man is dared
to cite such reasons, this was a sufficient proof that he was not to belonged to the faithful.
If the divine blessing was missing, it could well crafty politician war-experienced military leaders, weapons
crates from Holland or regiments not born again Celts from the mountains of Lorn do little. Was,
however, on the other side the time the Lord really came, it was still as of old by what foolish
is to make the wise men to shame before the world and a few just as well as by many . Save The
broad swords and bayonets Athol's Claverhouse's were able to precisely such modest weapons
like the slingshot of David or Gideon's pitchers on the run are [31].

After Cochrane had recognized the impossibility of the population south of the Clyde to insurrection
to move, he returned to Argyle, who was on the island of Bute. The Earl suggested But times
before to try to attack Inverary, but he pushed again for persistent Opposition. The sailors
did it with Cochrane and Hume, the Highlanders did submit strictly the orders of their leader. It
was feared that between the two Parties would come to blows, and
led the apprehension of such a disaster the Committee to make some
concessions.

The castle Ealan Ghierig, at the mouth of the hole [32] Riddan located, was chosen as the main parade
ground. The military stores were disembarked there and the wing close to the walls at a point
where it passes through rocks and shoals, which she believes a frigate could not pass protected was
laid at anchor. Then External works were raised, and a battery of some of the ships taken
small Cannons ascended. The command in the fort was transferred most unwisely Elphinstone,
who had already given evidence that he was far more inclined to deal with his superiors to
fight than to fight against the enemy.

Now for a few hours a little energy has been developed. Rumbold took the castle Ardkingglaß. The
Earl scharmützelte successfully with Athol's troops and was already in the approach of against
Inverary understood when he grows during follow-up messages from the ships and by party divisions
in committee was forced to turn back. The royal frigates were Ealan Ghierig come closer than anyone
thought possible, and the gentlemen of the Netherlands refused to most definitely, further
advance into the highlands.

Argyle hastened back to Ealan Ghierig. Once there, he proposed an attack on the frigates. His ships
were Although such a company is not conclusive, but they were by a flotilla of been great support
with thirty armed Highlanders wohlbemannten Fischerböten. The Committee did not hear anything
of this plan and really frustrated the same by instigating a mutiny among the sailors.

Now was confusion and discouragement. The committee were Mundvorräthe been so badly managed
that it lacked the troops to food. The Highlanders deserted therefore gave the hundreds and
by his misfortunes entirely pressed down the Earl by importunities of those who have always
stubbornly insisted that he in the Netherlands should move forward.

The small army broke accordingly hurried on to the shores of Loch
Long, sat at night in boats across the entrance and landed in Dumbartonshire.

Here they were given the following morning the news that the frigates were forcibly a passage
that all the ships of the Earls had been taken, and that Elphinstone fled without striking a blow from
Ghierig Ealan and was the castle was left with all the stores of the enemy.

There was now nothing more than to any risk of penetrating into the
low country.

Argyle decided a bold surprise attack on Glasgow venture. But as soon as this decision known
, was seized the same men who had pushed him up to this moment, in the to hasten the Netherlands,
a panic, they argued, made remonstrances, and because their disputes and their ideas failed,
they drafted the plan, the to seize boats to escape on his own hand and their general and his clansmen
be left without help conquer or perish.

This plan failed, however, and the cowards who had taken him, were forced to brave the dangers of
men last venture to share.

On the march through the area between Loch Long and Loch Lomond, the insurgents continuously
by detachments of militia worried. There were some skirmishes, in which the advantage on the
part of the Earl remained, but the spread before him flying squads the news of his approach and
came back soon after his crossing of the river Leven it on a numerous corps of regular and
irregular troops, who were willing to agree with to measure it.

He was in favor of adopting a battle, so also Ayloffe. Hume, however, declared it madness to
bind with the enemy. He saw a regiment in scarlet uniform, and it could still more behind it:
such a power attack, death would be a safe in the jaws Haste. The best thing is, up to the
night to behave quietly and then the enemy can find to escape.

There ensued a fierce exchange of words, appeased only with difficulty
by Rumbold's mediation was.

It was evening, and the two hostile armies encamped at no great distance from each other. The Earl
ventured to suggest a night attack, but was also this time again overruled.

[Note 31: Who should think about, that I and the irrationality Savagery of these people over exaggerating,
which I advise, two books on Reading will convince him that I, the
colors more have plotted as reduced too much.

The titles of these two Works are: + Hind Let Loose + and + Faithful Contending displayed. +]

[Note 32: See. D. Transl.]

    [Argyle's troops scattered.] After the decision was taken not to fight,
    had no to do further left than the step that Hume had recommended.
    There was some possibility provided, that the Earl, when
    he left quietly and the whole night through Haiden and marshes of
    them rushed off to the enemy gain a lead of several miles,
    and without could achieve further disability Glasgow.

    Was allowed to burn the camp-fires, and sat down in March.

But now a disaster followed the other. The leaders failed their way through the Moore led the
army in soft and swampy ground. A Military regulations could in these undisciplined and disheartened
soldiers under a stockfinstren sky and a treacherous, uneven ground will not be sustained. Terror
on terror spread in the separate rows. What you saw and heard was considered a sign of the
approach of the Pursuers. Some of the officers wore to the increase of fear, while their would
have been required to reduce them. The army was demoralized and become Haufe this melted away
quickly. Large crowds fled under cover of darkness. Rumbold and a few other brave that no danger
could deter lost, and were not able to locate the main body again. At daybreak, collected only about five
hundred tired and discouraged refugees in Kilpatrick.

[Argyle captured.] In a continuation of the war was no longer think and it was obvious that the
leaders of the expedition would be difficult enough, but her To live in safety. They fled in
different directions. Hume reached happy the mainland. Cochrane was seized and taken to London.
Argyle hoped under the roof one of his old servant, who lived near Kilpatrick to find a safe
asylum. But he saw himself deceived in this hope and was forced to cross the Clyde. He disguised
himself as a farmer and took over the role of a leader of the Major
Fullarton, his courageous loyalty shrink from any danger.

The two friends were traveling together by Renfrewshire to Inchinnan. Click to join the Black
Cart and White Cart, before they flow into the Clyde. These two currents flow through now flourishing
cities and drive the wheels of many factories, but then it went quiet running through mud tracks and
sheep pastures. The only Furth, could pass through which the traveler the river was guarded by
a detachment of militia. Fullarton tried to draw suspicion upon himself, could escape unnoticed
to his companion, but the question at once suspected that the leader did not want to be the
uneducated country man he seems. They laid hands on him. He tore himself away and jumped into
the water, but was immediately pursued. A short time, he defended themselves against five attackers,
but he had no other weapons than his pocket pistols, and these were a result of his leap into
the water become so wet that they failed. A sword held him down and he was arrested.

He devoted himself as the Earl of Argyle to see, probably in the hope that his respected name among
those who had taken him to bring respect and compassion would. They were also shocked really
deep, because they were simple subdivision of the lower classes, and although in the armed
services of the Crown, they entertained but perhaps some preference for Calvinist church government
and worship, and were also used to their inmates as the head of an illustrious house, and as
a champion of the Protestant faith to worship. But although they were visibly moved and, although
some of them even wept, they could decide but do not take the promised great reward and to have the
revenge of a ruthless government suspend.

They brought therefore their prisoners to Renfrew. The man who played in the arrest of the lead,
Riddell said. That was basically the whole race of Riddell over a century hated by the great
tribe of Campbell. Only survivors can remember that a Riddell, of a market in Argyleshire visited,
thought it advisable to adopt a false name.

Now began the most brilliant part of Argyle's career. His company had given him so far only apply
to censure and ridicule. His big mistake was that he decided not refuse had the title of a general,
without the power of it to assume. If he were quiet in Friesland remained, he would have been
called back in a few years with honor to his country and would have soon a great ornament and
support ground of constitutional monarchy can. If he had his own views after the expedition's
work and put in only those Companion taken, which were ready to obey all his orders strictly,
so could he possibly can make something great, for he seems to be a commander neither have been
lacking in courage, yet activity or skill, but solely and solely
on authority.

He should have known that of all the defects of this pernicious is. There have already been
victorious armies under the command, which just no outstanding features possessed. But which army
that was commanded by a quarrelsome Clubb, but not more of the Resolution and escaped disgrace? 

The
great misfortune, the Argyle affected, had the good that it gave him an opportunity, to show by
unmistakable evidence that what a man he was. From the day on which he Friesland left, had to
be the one where his companions parted from him in Kilpatrick, he can never act freely. He had
the responsibility for a series of measures to have to take that disapproved of his mind. Now
at last he stood alone. Captivity he had the finest kind of play, freedom, in his words and actions
are guided only by his sense of right and decency to leave. From that moment it was as if new
wisdom and virtue would be drawn into it. His mind seemed sharpened and refined, lifted his
moral character and at the same time reduced. The cheeky arrogance of the victors omitted nothing
of what the old to his nobility and his patriarchal Reputation could hurt humble and proud
man. The prisoner was in triumph through Edinburgh towed.

He went on foot and bareheaded all the stately street, which shaded by dark and gigantic stone
buildings and, after Holyrood House the castle leads. Before him, the executioner step with
the terrible tools that was used for four parts on the block. The victorious party had not forgotten
that thirty-five years previously posted Argyle's father at the head of the faction, which Montrose
replied to the death. Even before the events were the houses, and Graham Campbell mutually than not,
but since then she had been lying in a bloody feud constantly. It took trying to ensure that the
prisoner went through the same gate and through the same streets, been through the same fate
which Montrose was opposed. The troops, which accompanied the train were under the command of Claverhouse's,
the fiercest and hardest of the race of Graham. When the Earl had arrived at the castle, his
chains were at the feet of him and forged announced that he had only live a few days. Man had decided not
to put him to his final passing away because of the courts, but it readily to execute in conformity
with a number of years previously against him felled Judgment, a proposition of such outrageous
injustice that even the most servile and insensitive Lawyers could not speak of that terrible
time of it without shame.

But neither the ignominious procession through High Street, even the near prospect of death
could Argyle's noble and majestic calm shake. His firmness was however, found an even tougher test.
On the orders of the Privy Council it was a paper presented with questions. Of these questions,
he answered those he avoids any risk to not answered by his friends, and refused to say. Then they
told him that if he were not complete answers, he would be put on the rack. Jacob, it certainly
very sorry that he was not personally in Spanish at the sight of the Argyle grazing boots
could, had the measure most commands sent to Edinburgh, that nothing fails should be what
the traitor to reveal any that were concerned in the treason; could be blackmailed. But all
threats were vain. Despite the immediate prospect of torture Mac Callum More death and thought
far less of himself than of his poor clansmen. "I tried it today, "he wrote from his cell,"
to negotiate for them, and I had some Hope. But this evening is the command to come, that I must die Monday
or Tuesday, and I should be put to the torture if I do not answer
all questions and oath hardening.

But I hope God will sustain me. "

The torture was not applied.
 Because we are going to bring you to justice. That is why!"

"These are very fine accusations," said Hugo, with a pale sneer, "but I think you will find
a difficulty in proving them, Mr.--Vasari."

"I shall have at least no difficulty in proving that you stole money and forged my brother's
name three years ago," said Brian, in a voice that was terrible in its icy scorn. "I shall
have no difficulty in proving to the world's satisfaction that you shamefully cheated Dino
Vasari, and that you twice--yes, twice--tried to murder him, in order to gain your own ends.
Hugo Luttrell, you are a coward, a thief, a would-be murderer; and unless you can prove that
you were in my mother's room with no evil intent (which I believe to be impossible) you shall
be branded with all these names in the world's face."

"There is no proof--there is no legal proof," cried Hugo, boldly. But his lips were white.

"But there is plenty of moral proof, young man," said Mr. Colquhoun's dry voice. "Quite enough
to blast your reputation. And what does this empty bottle mean and this broken glass? Perhaps
your wife can tell us that."

There was a momentary silence. Mr. Colquhoun held up the little bottle, and pointed with raised
eyebrows to the label upon it. Heron was supporting his sister in his arms and trying to revive
her: Fane and the impassive constable barred the way between Hugo and the door.

In that pause, a strange, choked sound came from the bed. For the first time for many months
Mrs. Luttrell had slightly raised her hand. She said the name that had been upon her lips so
many times during the last few weeks, and her eyes were fixed upon the man whom for a lifetime
she had called her son.

"Brian!" she said, "Brian!"

And he, suddenly turning pale, relaxed his hold upon Hugo's arm and walked to the bed-side.
"Mother," he said, leaning over her, "did you call me? Did you speak to me?"

She looked at him with wistful eyes: her nerveless fingers tried to press his hand. "Brian,"
she murmured. Then, with a great spasmodic effort: "My son!"

The attention of the others had been concentrated upon this little scene; and for the moment
both Fane and Mr. Colquhoun drew nearer to the bed, leaving the door of Mrs. Luttrell's bed-room
unguarded. The constable was standing in the dressing-room. It was then that Hugo saw his chance,
although it was one which a sane man would scarcely have thought of taking. He made a rush
for the bed-room door.

Whither should he go? The front door was bolted and barred; but he supposed that the back door
would be open. He never thought of the entrance to the garden by which Brian Luttrell had got
into the house. He dashed down the staircase; he was nimbler and lighter-footed than Fane,
who was immediately behind him, and he knew the tortuous ways and winding passages of the house,
as Fane did not. He gained on his pursuer. Down the dark stone passages he fled: the door into
the back premises stood wide open. There was a flight of steep stone steps, which led straight
to a kitchen and thence into the yard. He would have time to unbolt the kitchen door, even
if it were not already open, for Fane was far, far behind.

But there was no light, and there was a sudden turn in the steps which he had forgotten. Fane
reached the head of the staircase in time to hear a cry, a heavy crashing fall, a groan. Then
all was still.

CHAPTER LI.

A LAST CONFESSION.

They carried him upstairs again, handling him gently, and trying to discover the extent of
his injuries; but they did not guess--until, in the earliest hours of the day, a doctor came
from Dunmuir to Netherglen--that Hugo Luttrell's hours on earth were numbered. He had broken
his back, and although he might linger in agony for a short time, the inevitable end was near.
As the dawn came creeping into the room in which he lay, he opened his eyes, and the watchers
saw that he shuddered as he looked round.

"Why have they brought me here?" he said.

No one knew why. It was the nearest and most convenient room for the purpose. Brian had not
been by to interpose, or he might have chosen another place. For it was the room to which Richard
Luttrell had been carried when they brought him back to Netherglen.

Kitty was beside him, and, with her, Elizabeth, who had come from Dunmuir on hearing of the
accident. These two women, knowing as they did the many evil deeds which he had committed,
did not refuse him their gentle ministry. When they saw the pain that he suffered, their hearts
bled for him. They could, not love him: they could not forgive him for all that he had done;
but they pitied him. And most of all they pitied him when they knew that the fiat had gone
forth that he must die.

He knew it, too. He knew it from their faces: he had no need to ask. The hopelessness upon
his face, the pathetic look of suffering in his eyes, touched even Kitty's heart. She asked
him once if she could do anything to help him. They were alone together, and the answer was
as unexpected as it was brief: "I want Angela."

They telegraphed for her, although they hardly thought that she would reach the house before
he died. Everyone who comes now to the parliament,
own what we in the seventeenth century a wealth of parliamentary knowledge would have called.
This knowledge could at that time only through practical parliamentary Purchase activity.


Brian, although in the house, held aloof from the injured man's room. 

Skelton had given the States General a catalog of those refugees whose stay in the United Provinces
concerns inspired his master. The States-General, which urgently wanted to meet every reasonable
request of Jacob, sent copies of the list to the provincial authorities, and these again the Municipalbehörden.
All the city magistrates was told that they should take the necessary measures to outlaw the Whigs
to avoid causing alarm to the English government. In general, these commands Result achieved, and
particularly in Rotterdam, where was the influence of Wilhelm's all wealthy, was an activity
developed, which led to Jacob grateful recognition.


"No," she answered. "No, indeed, Hugo."

"Is that mark on your forehead from the blow I gave you?"

"Yes." Does pain he fell to the ground crying, while at some distance people and
children gathered around him. And there went out from the crowd a stooped old man and approached
Urashima is the question:

"Who are you stranger, and whom do you seek here?

"Why not? I do not care. Better to die than lie here--here, where Richard Luttrell lay. He will ask the people to the test. You the next
morning, all arrive at the palace.

As the morning the police were all gathered in the lobby of the Palace, appeared to Kaiser,
holding in his hand a silk bag. This bag filled with the Emperor Gold and let him hang from
the ceiling in the middle of the hall, so high that no one with him
the hand could reach.

Then the Emperor said:

"Here is the bag of gold. He stuck for three
days. Ask God to forgive you for what you
have done: He will forgive you if you repent: He will, indeed."

"Don't talk to me of forgiveness," said Hugo, closing his eyes. "No one forgives: God least
of all." Oh please, I solve this puzzle, tears the bandage from
I believe that I can see! "

"I do not understand you, young man replied," the old man, "this place
is a shambles, as long as I can remember.

I know you not, who are you? What is your name? "

"I'm Urashima Taro, the fisherman," said Urashima.

"Urashima Taro?
- - "Cried the old man full of wonder and more terrifying met some
steps back. "Are you a ghost? - A silhouette? - Urashima Taro you
can not be! She knelt down
beside him and took his hand. "Talk to me," he murmured.

