ON COMMANDO

by

DIETLOF VAN WARMELO

With a Portrait

Methuen & Co. 36 Essex Street W.C. London Colonial Library

1902

PREFACE

This book was written in 1901, while its author was a prisoner at Ahmednagar. It was written
in Dutch, and has been put into English by a young lady from what was the Orange Free State.

The author is a friend and relation of mine, son of a clergyman in the Transvaal, and of old
Afrikander stock on both sides. His book is the more valuable because of the absence of all
literary pretensions, and it may be taken as truly representative of the Afrikander spirit,
which has been so much misconceived in England.

FREDERIK VAN EEDEN

WALDEN, N. HOLLAND, July, 1902

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

FOREWORD

      I. AT THE BOUNDARY--ENTRANCE INTO NATAL--DUNDEE--LADYSMITH

     II. SIEGE OF LADYSMITH--BATTLE OF THE ROOIRANDJES--BLOWING
         UP OF THE CANNON

    III. THE EIGHT-DAY BATTLE OF THE TUGELA--TALK OF
         INTERVENTION--RELIEF OF LADYSMITH

     IV. DEWETSDRIFT--RETURN TO, AND FLIGHT FROM, PRETORIA

      V. TREK FROM MIDDELBURG TO RUSTENBURG--BATTLE OF SELIKATSNEK

     VI. GUERILLA LIFE ON THE MAGALIES MOUNTAINS--NARROW ESCAPE
         OF PRESIDENT STEYN AND GENERAL DE WET

    VII. WITH PRESIDENT STEYN TO PRESIDENT KRUGER

   VIII. WITH PRESIDENT STEYN IN THE BOSCHVELD--LOST

     IX. PRACTICAL HINTS--ADVENTURE ON THE SABIE--NORTH OF LYDENBURG

      X. FROM ROOSSENEKAL TO PIETERSBURG--WITH GENERAL BEYERS
         TO THE MAGALIES MOUNTAINS

     XI. BATTLE OF NOOITGEDACHT

    XII. PAARDEKRAAL DAY--BATTLE IN THE MOAT--ATTACK ON KAALFONTEIN
         STATION

   XIII. COMMANDO SUFFERINGS

    XIV. BATTLE OF BOESMANSKOP--FLIGHT OF WOMEN

     XV. BATTLE OF CHRISSIESMEER--REUNION WITH GENERAL BEYERS

    XVI. CAMPED NEAR TAFELKOP

CONCLUSION: BATTLE OF STOMPIES--IN THE HANDS OF THE ENEMY

MY LIFE ON COMMANDO

FOREWORD

Could I have known that the war would last so long, I might from the beginning have taken notes.
They would have brought back memories in a way pleasant to me now, and perhaps also to those
who have asked me to write down my adventures.

Often it occurred to me to keep a diary, but I was obliged to give up the idea because my clothes
were sometimes so thoroughly drenched that the letters in my pocket were not readable. Later
on, when clothes were scarce and pockets past mending, I often made the unpleasant discovery
that caused the fool, on his journey from the land of Kokanje, to cry to the King: 'We have
ridden at such a breakneck pace, see, everything has slipped through this little hole!' Now
I am obliged to write down my adventures without any notes, so dates, numbers, and names of
places will occasionally be missing. It stands to reason that I--being an exile in a strange
country, in the fort of ... in ..., cut off from the world outside and without any official
reports--should simply limit myself to my own personal experience. And, lastly, I must apologize
to my readers for so often speaking of myself and my friends; but that is inevitable in this tale.

I shall pass rapidly over the first part of my life on commando. If my memory plays me false--which
is not very probable, as I still have a lively recollection of the events--I shall be grateful
for correction.

July, 1901.

I

AT THE BOUNDARY--ENTRANCE INTO NATAL--DUNDEE--LADYSMITH

When that part of the Pretoria town commando to which my brother Frits and I belonged left
for the Natal boundary on September 30, 1899, we were all very enthusiastic, as could be seen
from the nice new suits, the new shining guns, and the sleek horses. Many ladies had come to
the station to see us off, and we were proud of having the opportunity to fight for our country.
Our departure seemed then to us a great occasion, we were inexperienced in war. We had not
yet learnt that one could pass unscathed through many a fierce battle. We knew nothing of 'retreating'
and we knew all about the enemy with whom we were to come in contact. We imagined that several
sharp engagements would take place--that these would be decisive battles in which many of our
men would be killed, and therefore the parting with relatives and friends was sad indeed.

Our Field-Cornet, Melt Marais, had told us that we had nothing to see to except provisions
for a day or two, as Government would supply us with all necessaries at Zandspruit, where the
commandos were to concentrate; so many of us took neither pots, pans, nor mugs.

What a disillusion it was to find on our arrival at Zandspruit that there were no tents, and
as yet no provisions of any kind! So we were initiated by having to pass the first nights of
our commando life on the open veld with insufficient food. And in the daytime our work was
cut out for us, as every other minute our horses disappeared--lost among the thousands of horses
that all looked exactly alike in the eyes of an inexperienced townsman. Then it meant a running
and seeking, an examining of marks and tokens, until the stupid among us were obliged to tie
ribbons to our horses as a means of recognising them. And one, the story goes, even tied a
nosebag, with a bundle of forage, to his mount so that it should not run away.

At length the provisions began to arrive, but the pots and pans were still scarce and we could
not even drink a cup of coffee till a tin of jam or meat had been emptied.

We were just beginning to feel comfortable, when the time stated in the ultimatum expired,
and we had to cross the boundary of Natal. General Erasmus was at the head of our commando.
We spent the night near Volksrust in a cold hail storm and rain. Those first days we are not
likely to forget. They were wet, cold days, and we were still unaccustomed to preparing our
own food and looking after ourselves. Fortunately, we had the opportunity, a few days later,
of supplying ourselves with all necessaries at Newcastle.

Before we crossed the boundary General Erasmus had addressed us and told us the news of our
first victory--the taking of an armoured train at Kraaipan; at that time we still made a fuss
about such a trifle. Also, in those days, we still looked up with respect to our leaders.

Ds. Postma, who accompanied us everywhere, led us in prayer. Not one of the burghers seems
to have known where the enemy were. We advanced slowly and carefully, as we expected to meet
with the enemy at any moment; but we saw no signs of them until we came to Dundee. After a
rest of a few days we undertook the momentous expedition to the mountains of Dundee, to the
north of the town.

Towards evening we got the order to 'prepare for three days.' For three days! And we had not
even provisions enough for one. But we understood that there could not yet be a proper commissariat,
and we fought for our country willingly, convinced of the justice of our cause; so we 'prepared'
cheerfully.

Before the commando started, a terrible thunderstorm came on that slowly passed over and was
followed by a gentle rain. We rode hard in the dark, through dongas, past farms and houses,
zigzagging in a half-circle, to the mountains of Dundee. No sound was to be heard except the
dull thud of the hoofs of the galloping horses. Now and again we whispered to each other how
delightfully we were going to surprise the enemy. When the horses came to a sudden pause, and
an inexperienced rider, owing to a presentiment of evil, involuntarily uttered his wish to
'halt,' we turned upon him angrily and called him 'traitor.' We did not then know that we were
far beyond earshot of the enemy. It stopped raining, and towards morning we reached the mountains;
and after we had with great difficulty got our horses on to the mountains, we had to await
the dawn in the cold, drenched to the skin. A mackintosh is of small service in such a rain.
When the day dawned we led our horses higher up. A thick fog had come on. General Lucas Meyer
was to begin the attack on the west, and we were to surprise the enemy from the heights.

When the roar of cannon announced the battle, we were full of enthusiasm, but General Erasmus
forbade anyone to move on before the fog lifted. It was quite possible that the fog might be
only on the mountain-tops, because of their great height, and that we would have clear weather
as soon as we began to descend, therefore several of our men begged General Erasmus to be allowed
to go on ahead as scouts. But he was very much against it, and said that the enemy might cut
off our retreat, and 'if the enemy surround us it is all up with us,' said he. As soon as the
roar of the cannon ceased, we withdrew some distance into the mountains to let our horses graze.
But we had only just off-saddled, when from all sides came the cry of 'Saddle! saddle!' and
from our left, in the valley, came the sound of firing. A detachment of 250 khakies, probably
knowing nothing of our whereabouts, and intending to pass round the mountains and attack Lucas
Meyer in the rear, was compelled to surrender in a few moments, after first having sought cover
in a kraal near a house.

We remained three days on the Dundee mountains, and during all that time there was a steady
drizzle, with intervals of hail and wind. Once when it cleared up for a few hours we got the
order to attack the town, but it began to rain again, and that night we had to keep our positions
in the intense cold, without any covering. Fortunately, the enemy abandoned their camp that
night, and when we looked down upon the town next morning the khakies had vanished. We had
only the preceding day placed our cannon in a position to command the camp.

When we returned to our saddles, the horses had strayed so far that it took us almost all day
to get them back. My uncle, Paul Maré, formerly Volksraad member for Zoutpansberg, treated
us to kaboe-mealies (roasted maize), the first we had on commando, and we ate with great relish.

Meanwhile the commando had left. We followed, and entered Dundee, where we helped ourselves
hungrily to the good things from the shops placed at the disposal of the commandos.

In an unorganized army looting is a necessary evil. There are always some of the lower classes
who are the ringleaders, and when the commandos reach a house or farm that has already been
looted, they join in the looting 'because the burghers are on commando, and they must be well
supplied with all necessaries, so as to be able to fight well.' So we reasoned, and we joined
in the looting. I can affirm, to the honour of our burghers, that it was not our intention
to plunder, and in the beginning much was done to prevent it. The lower class Uitlander, who
joined us for the sake of booty, and not for love and sympathy towards us, was largely responsible
for the bad name we got among right-minded people who did not know the facts of the case. It
was the same as regards theft. If anyone missed his horse, he had but to look for it among
the 'Irish corps,' or some other Uitlander corps, and unless he knew his beast well he would
fail to recognise it, as both mane and tail would have been cut short by the thief. I do not
wish to pretend that we were always free from blame. It has happened that the Uitlander got
a very poor horse in exchange for his thoroughbred because a Boer had tied the token of recognition
to his own horse and made off with the better one. The truth is that very few men are proof
against the demoralizing influence of war, and I will not deny that this war has shown up our
many faults; but in my tale I shall be able to take up the cudgels for my people in cases where
the rest of the world turned from us because they were disappointed in their expectations of us.

After our departure from Dundee the looting went on freely. Then we began to witness the devastation
that is the irremediable consequence of war. Here and there a house had been completely plundered.
At Glencoe Junction I entered the stationmaster's house, a well-furnished house with beautiful
pictures, books, and mirrors. Some massive silver mugs and other articles of value were lying
about. The family had only just dined, for the cloth was still laid. I ate of the food on the
table, wrote a letter home with pen and ink, and left the house. Later on, when I returned,
it had been thoroughly looted and some of the mirrors smashed. There were many of the riff-raff,
Kaffirs and coolies in the neighbourhood, and in all probability they had done the mischief.

When our commando left Dundee to move in the direction of Ladysmith, part of the Pretoria town
commando was sent to reinforce Lucas Meyer, who was to follow the troops fleeing from Dundee
with his commando. My brother and I went with it. A terrible thunderstorm came on just then,
and during the whole march to Ladysmith it rained heavily. Every moment we expected to come
up with the troops, but they had too great a start, and we did not overtake them at all. We
were too late again. An English General has said that 'the Boers are brave, and make good plans,
but are always twenty-four hours late.' That can be explained in this way. We were accustomed
to fighting against Kaffirs, who hid in woods and mountains, and against whom we had to advance
with the utmost precaution, so as to lose as few lives as possible. So we were too cautious
in the beginning of the war. We would not make a great sacrifice to win a battle.

On October 30 we were present, under Lucas Meyer, at the battle near Ladysmith, but we did
not come into action, as we belonged to a part of the commando that had to hold a position
to prevent attack in the rear. The enemy did not attack our position at all, except with a
few bombs, because they suffered a great defeat near Modderspruit, and had to retreat hurriedly.
From our positions we could see how every time the bombs burst among them the fleeing troops
seemed to get 'mazed' for a moment, and then went forward again.

At that time we were often in want of food. One must have suffered hunger to know what it means.
In a few linen bags I had some biscuits that had first been reduced to crumbs through the riding,
and then to a kind of pap by the rain and perspiration of the horse. Often when I felt the
pangs of famine I added some sugar to this mess and ate it with relish.

Some days later we left Lucas Meyer and returned to our commando, which had meanwhile gone
to the north of Ladysmith. During our absence Zeederberg had taken the place of Melt Marais
as Veld-Cornet.

II

SIEGE OF LADYSMITH--BATTLE OF THE ROOIRANDJES--BLOWING UP OF THE CANNON

When we surrounded the town and the siege began, all talk of the bananas that we were to eat
in the south of Natal came to an end.

Ladysmith ought never to have been besieged. On October 30 we should have made use of our advantage.
If we had at once followed the enemy when they fled in disorder, we should in all probability
easily have taken those positions that would have involved the immediate surrender of Ladysmith.
Many lives would have been sacrificed, but not so many as were sacrificed during the whole
siege. And we might have used those men who were necessary to maintain the siege elsewhere
as an attacking force. Instead of following up our advantage, we deliberately prepared for
a siege. The enemy meanwhile made use of the opportunity to entrench themselves well. Most
of our burghers were against our attempting to take the town by assault when once it was thoroughly
entrenched.

The Pretoria town commando and that from Krokodil River in the Pretoria district occupied the
position nearest to Ladysmith. This was a hill to the north of the town, flat at the top, and
surrounded by a stone wall. In all probability the enclosed depression of about 500 paces in
circuit had been used as a cattle-kraal. Against that kopje (hill) we gradually put up our
tents. From our camp we looked on to a large flat mountain that we called Little Amajuba, because
on October 30 the first large capture of prisoners had been made there. In front of our kopje,
near the foot, ran a donga, and at a distance of about 1,000 paces, parallel to us, lay another
oblong kopje occupied by the enemy. This kopje we called Rooirandjes.

On November 8 we received the order from our General to attack the Rooirandjes the following
day. We were about 250 strong, and very willing, as that position had not yet been entrenched.
On a mountain to our right a cannon had been placed that was to begin firing on the enemy's
position towards dawn. Distinct orders were given that our Veld-Cornet was to be at the foot
of Rooirandjes with his men before daybreak. But something went wrong again, and it was already
quite light when we reached the donga. We found ourselves at a distance of about 700 paces
from the Rooirandjes, and we had to cross an open space if we still wished to storm the position.
The enemy's watch already began shooting at us.

The corporals let their men advance in groups of four from the donga to the kopje, using the
ant-hills as cover when they lay down. Our turn came last, but meanwhile the enemy had received
reinforcements, and the nearest ant-hills were nearly all occupied, so that only three men
could go at a time. Such a shower of bullets fell that it was a miracle that we came out of
it alive. Fortunately I found a free ant-hill. My brother had to share one with a comrade.

At last the cannon from the mountain fired a few shots, but stopped again almost immediately--why,
I do not yet know. So we were obliged to lie in our positions. It was terribly hot, and not
a cloud in the sky. We suffered horribly from thirst, and scarcely dared move to get at our
water-bags. One of our comrades lay groaning behind me. He was shot through both legs. The
bullets kept flying over our heads to the kopje behind us, where some of our burghers lay firing
at the enemy. Every now and again a bullet exploded in our neighbourhood with the noise of
a pistol-shot. I fancy only Dum-Dums make that peculiar noise. We had already seen many such
bullets taken from the enemy by our burghers in the Battle of Modderspruit. Another burgher,
Mulder, ran past me with a smile on his lips, threw himself behind an ant-hill, immediately
rose again with the intention of joining some of our burghers in the front ranks, who sat calmly
smoking behind some rocks under a tree, but had not gone two paces when he was shot in the
thigh. There he had to lie groaning until our brave Reineke, who was killed later on at Spion
Kop, saw a chance of carrying him away.

Some of us fell asleep from fatigue. One of our men on waking heard the hiss of a bullet over
his head at regular intervals, and thought that a khaki had got closer up to him, and was firing
at him from the side. When he lifted his head he found that he had rolled away from all cover.
One, two, three, back he was again behind his ant-hill, and the scoundrel stopped firing at
him. It was lucky for us that the enemy were such bad shots, or not many of us would have lived
to tell the tale.

