THE LATE MRS NULL

BY

FRANK R. STOCKTON

1886

CHAPTER I.

There was a wide entrance gate to the old family mansion of Midbranch, but it was never opened
to admit the family or visitors; although occasionally a load of wood, drawn by two horses
and two mules, came between its tall chestnut posts, and was taken by a roundabout way among
the trees to a spot at the back of the house, where the chips of several generations of sturdy
wood-choppers had formed a ligneous soil deeper than the arable surface of any portion of the
nine hundred and fifty acres which formed the farm of Midbranch. This seldom opened gate was
in a corner of the lawn, and the driving of carriages, or the riding of horses through it to
the porch at the front of the house would have been the ruin of the short, thick grass which
had covered that lawn, it was generally believed, ever since Virginia became a State.

But there had to be some way for people who came in carriages or on horseback to get into the
house, and therefore the fence at the bottom of the lawn, at a point directly in front of the
porch, was crossed by a set of broad wooden steps, five outside and five inside, with a platform
at the top. These stairs were wide enough to accommodate eight people abreast; so that if a
large carriage load of visitors arrived, none of them need delay in crossing the fence. At
the outside of the steps ran the narrow road which entered the plantation a quarter of a mile
away, and passed around the lawn and the garden to the barns and stables at the back.

On the other side of the road, undivided from it by hedge or fence, stretched, like a sea gently
moved by a groundswell, a vast field, sometimes planted in tobacco, and sometimes in wheat.
In the midst of this field stood a tall persimmon tree which yearly dropped its half-candied
fruit upon the first light snow of the winter. It is true that persimmons, quite fit to eat,
were to be found on this tree at an earlier period than this, but such fruit was never noticed
by the people in those parts, who would not rudely wrench from Jack Frost his one little claim
to rivalry with the sun as a fruit-ripener. To the right of the field was a wide extent of
pasture land, running down to a small stream, or "branch," which, flowing between two other
streams of the same kind a mile or two on either side of it, had given its name to the place.
In front, to the left, lay a great forest of chestnut, oak, sassafras, and sweet gum, with
here and there a clump of tall pines, standing up straight and stiff with an air of Puritanic
condemnation of the changing fashions of the foliage about them.

On one side of the platform of the broad stile, which has been mentioned, sat one summer afternoon,
the lady of the house. She was a young woman, and although her face was a good deal shadowed
by her far-spreading hat, it was easy to perceive that she was a handsome one. She was the
niece of Mr Robert Brandon, the elderly bachelor who owned Midbranch; and her mother, long
since dead, had called her Roberta, which was as near as she could come to the name of her
only brother.

Miss Roberta's father was a man whose mind and time were entirely given up to railroads; and
although he nominally lived in New York, he was, for the greater part of the year, engaged
in endeavors to forward his interests somewhere west of the Mississippi. Two or three months
of the winter were generally spent in his city home. At these times he had his daughter with
him, but the rest of the year she lived with her uncle, whose household she directed with much
good will and judgment. The old gentleman did not keep her all the summer at Midbranch. He
knew what was necessary for a young lady who had been educated in Germany and Switzerland,
and who had afterwards made a very favorable impression in Paris and London; and so, during
the hot weather, he took her with him to one of the fashionable Southern resorts, where they
always stayed exactly six weeks.

The gentleman who was sitting on the other side of the platform, with his face turned towards
her, had known Miss Roberta for a year or more, having met her at the North, and also in the
Virginia mountains; and being now on a visit to the Green Sulphur Springs, about four miles
from Midbranch, he rode over to see her nearly every day. There was nothing surprising in this,
because the Green Sulphur, once a much frequented resort, had seen great changes, and now,
although the end of the regular season had not arrived, it had Mr Lawrence Croft for its only
guest. There was a spacious hotel there; there was a village of cottages of varying sizes;
there were buildings for servants and managers; there was a ten-pin alley and a quiet ground;
there were arbors and swings; and a square hole in a stone slab, through which a little pool
of greenish water could be seen, with a tin cup, somewhat rusty, lying by it. But all was quiet
and deserted, except one cottage, in which the man lived who had charge of the place, and where
Mr Croft boarded. It was very pleasant for him to ride over to Midbranch and take a walk with
Miss Roberta; and this was what they had been doing to-day.

Horseback rides had been suggested, but Mr Brandon objected to these. He knew Mr Croft to be
a young man of good family and very comfortable fortune, and he liked him very much when he
had him there to dinner, but he did not wish his niece to go galloping around the country with
him. To quiet walks in the woods, and through the meadows, he could, of course, have no objection.
A good many of Mr Brandon's principles, like certain of his books, were kept upon a top shelf,
but Miss Roberta always liked to humor the few which the old gentleman was wont to have within
easy reach.

This afternoon they had rambled through the woods, where the hard, smooth road wound picturesquely
through the places in which it had been easiest to make a road, and where the great trunks
of the trees were partly covered by clinging vines, which Miss Roberta knew to be either Virginia
creeper or poison oak, although she did not remember which of these had clusters of five leaves,
and which of three.

The horse on which Mr Croft had ridden over from the Springs was tied to a fence near by, and
he now seemed to indicate by his restless movements that it was quite time for the gentleman
to go home; but with this opinion Mr Croft decidedly differed. He had had a long walk with
the lady and plenty of opportunities to say anything that he might choose, but still there
was something very important which had not been said, and which Mr Croft very much wished to
say before he left Miss Roberta that afternoon. His only reason for hesitation was the fact
that he did not know what he wished to say.

He was a man who always kept a lookout on the bows of his daily action; in storm or in calm,
in fog or in bright sunshine that lookout must be at his post; and upon his reports it depended
whether Mr Croft set more sail, put on more steam, reversed his engine, or anchored his vessel.
A report from this lookout was what he hoped to elicit by the remark which he wished to make.
He desired greatly to know whether Miss Roberta March looked upon him in the light of a lover,
or in that of an intimate acquaintance, whose present intimacy depended a good deal upon the
propinquity of Midbranch and the Green Sulphur Springs. He had endeavored to produce upon her
mind the latter impression. If he ever wished her to regard him as a lover he could do this
in the easiest and most straightforward way, but the other procedure was much more difficult,
and he was not certain that he had succeeded in it. How to find out in what light she viewed
him without allowing the lady to perceive his purpose was a very delicate operation.

"I wish," said Miss Roberta, poking with the end of her parasol at some half-withered wild
flowers which lay on the steps beneath her, "that you would change your mind, and take supper
with us."

Mr Croft's mind was very busy in endeavoring to think of some casual remark, some observation
regarding man, nature, or society, or even an anecdote or historical incident, which, if brought
into the conversation, might produce upon the lady's countenance some shade of expression,
or some variation in her tone or words which would give him the information he sought for.
But what he said was: "Are they really suppers that you have, or are they only teas?"

"Now I know," said the lady, "why you have sometimes taken dinner with us, but never supper.
You were afraid that it would be a tea."

Lawrence Croft was thinking that if this girl believed that he was in love with her, it would
make a great deal of difference in his present course of action. If such were the case, he
ought not to come here so often, or, in fact, he ought not to come at all, until he had decided
for himself what he was going to do. But what could he say that would cause her, for the briefest
moment, to unveil her idea of himself. "I never could endure," he said, "those meals which
consist of thin shavings of bread with thick plasters of butter, aided and abetted by sweet
cakes, preserves, and tea."

"You should have reserved those remarks," she said, "until you had found out what sort of evening
meal we have."

He could certainly say something, he thought. Perhaps it might be some little fanciful story
which would call up in her mind, without his appearing to intend it, some thought of his relationship
to her as a lover--that is, if she had ever had such a notion. If this could be done, her face
would betray the fact. But, not being ready to make such a remark, he said: "I beg your pardon,
but do you really have suppers in the English fashion?"

"Oh, no," answered Miss Roberta, "we don't have a great cold joint, with old cheese, and pitchers
of brown stout and ale, but neither do we content ourselves with thin bread and butter, and
preserves. We have coffee as well as tea, hot rolls, fleecy and light, hot batter bread made
of our finest corn meal, hot biscuits and stewed fruit, with plenty of sweet milk and buttermilk;
and, if anybody wants it, he can always have a slice of cold ham."

"If I could only feel sure," thought Mr Croft, "that she looked upon me merely as an acquaintance,
I would cease to trouble my mind on this subject, and let everything go on as before. But I
am not sure, and I would rather not come here again until I am." "And at what hour," he asked,
"do you partake of a meal like that?"

"In summer time," said Miss Roberta, "we have supper when it is dark enough to light the lamps.
My uncle dislikes very much to be deprived, by the advent of a meal, of the out-door enjoyment
of a late afternoon, or, as we call it down here, the evening."

"It would be easy enough," thought Mr Croft, "for me to say something about my being suddenly
obliged to go away, and then notice its effect upon her. But, apart from the fact that I would
not do anything so vulgar and commonplace, it would not advantage me in the slightest degree.
She would see through the flimsiness of my purpose, and, no matter how she looked upon me,
would show nothing but a well-bred regret that I should be obliged to go away at such a pleasant
season." "I think the hour for your supper," said he, "is a very suitable one, but I am not
sure that such a variety of hot bread would agree with me."

"Did you ever see more healthy-looking ladies and gentlemen than you find in Virginia?" asked
Miss March.

"It is not that I want to know if she looks favorably upon me," said Lawrence Croft to himself,
"for when I wish to discover that, I shall simply ask her. What I wish now to know is whether,
or not, she considers me at all as a lover. There surely must be something I can say which
will give me a clew." "The Virginians, as a rule," he replied, "are certainly a very well-grown
and vigorous race."

"In spite of the hot bread," she said with a smile.

Just then Mr Croft believed himself struck by a happy thought. "You are not prepared, I suppose,
to say, in consequence of it; and that recalls the fact that so much in this world happens
in spite of things, instead of in consequence of them."

"I don't know that I exactly understand," said Miss Roberta.

"Well, for instance," said Mr Croft, "take the case of marriage. Don't you think that a man
is more apt to marry in spite of his belief that he would be much better off as a bachelor,
than in consequence of a conviction that a Benedict's life would suit him better?"

"That," said she, "depends a good deal on the woman."

As she said this Lawrence glanced quickly at her to observe the expression of her countenance.
The countenance plainly indicated that its owner had suddenly been made aware that the afternoon
was slipping away, and that she had forgotten certain household duties that devolved upon her.

"Here comes Peggy," she said, "and I must go into the house and give out supper. Don't you
now think it would be well for you to follow our discussion of a Virginia supper by eating one?"

At this moment, there arrived at the bottom of the inside steps, a small girl, very black,
very solemn, and very erect, with her hands folded in front of her very straight up-and-down
calico frock, her features expressive of a wooden stolidity which nothing but a hammer or chisel
could alter, and with large eyes fixed upon a far-away, which, apparently, had disappeared,
leaving the eyes in a condition of idle out-go.

"Miss Rob," said this wooden Peggy, "Aun' Judy says it's more'n time to come housekeep."

"Which means," said Miss Roberta, rising, "that I must go and get my key basket, and descend
into the store-room. Won't you come in? We shall find uncle on the back porch."

Mr Croft declined with thanks, and took his leave, and the lady walked across the smooth grass
to the house, followed by the rigid Peggy.

The young man approached his impatient horse, and, not without some difficulty, got himself
mounted. He had not that facility of sympathetically combining his own will and that of his
horse which comes to men who from their early boyhood are wont to consider horses as objects
quite as necessary to locomotion as shoes and stockings. But Lawrence Croft was a fair graduate
of a riding school, and he went away in very good style to his cottage at the Green Sulphur
Springs. "I believe," he said to himself, as he rode through the woods, "that Miss March expects
no more of me than she would expect of any very intimate friend. I shall feel perfectly free,
therefore, to continue my investigations regarding two points: First, is she worth having?
and: Second, will she have me? And I must be very careful not to get the position of these
points reversed."

When Miss Roberta went into the store-room, it was Peggy, who, under the supervision of her
mistress, measured out the fine white flour for the biscuits for supper. Peggy was being educated
to do these things properly, and she knew exactly how many times the tin scoop must fill itself
in the barrel for the ordinary needs of the family. Miss Roberta stood, her eyes contemplatively
raised to the narrow window, through which she could see a flush of sunset mingling itself
with the outer air; and Peggy scooped once, twice, thrice, four times; then she stopped, and,
raising her head, there came into the far-away gloom of her eyes a quick sparkle like a flash
of black lightning. She made another and entirely supplementary scoop, and then she stopped,
and let the tin utensil fall into the barrel with a gentle thud.

"That will do," said Miss Roberta.

That night, when she should have been in her bed, Peggy sat alone by the hearth in Aunt Judy's
cabin, baking a cake. It was a peculiar cake, for she could get no sugar for it, but she had
supplied this deficiency with molasses. It was made of Miss Roberta's finest white flour, and
eggs there were in it and butter, and it contained, besides, three raisins, an olive, and a
prune. When the outside of the cake had been sufficiently baked, and every portion of it had
been scrupulously eaten, the good little Peggy murmured to herself: "It's pow'ful comfortin'
for Miss Rob to have sumfin' on her min'."

CHAPTER II.

About a week after Mr Lawrence Croft had had his conversation with Miss March on the stile
steps at Midbranch, he was obliged to return to his home in New York. He was not a man of business,
but he had business; and, besides this, he considered if he continued much longer to reside
in the utterly attractionless cottage at the Green Sulphur Springs, and rode over every day
to the very attractive house at Midbranch, that the points mentioned in the previous chapter
might get themselves reversed. He was a man who was proud of being, under all circumstances,
frank and honest with himself. He did not wish, if it could be avoided, to deceive other people,
but he was prudent and careful about exhibiting his motives and intended course of action to
his associates. Himself, however, he took into his strictest confidence. He was fond of the
idea that he went into the battle of life covered and protected by a great shield, but that
the inside of the shield was a mirror in which he could always see himself. Looking into this
mirror, he now saw that, if he did not soon get away from Miss Roberta, he would lay down his
shield and surrender, and it was his intent that this should not happen until he wished it
to happen.

It was very natural when Lawrence reached New York, that he should take pleasure in talking
about Miss Roberta March and her family with any one who knew them. He was particularly anxious,
if he could do so delicately and without exciting any suspicion of his object, to know as much
as possible about Sylvester March, the lady's father. In doing this, he did not feel that he
was prying into the affairs of others, but he could not be true to himself unless he looked
well in advance before he made the step on which his mind was set. It was in this way that
he happened to learn that about two years before, Miss March had been engaged to be married,
but that the engagement had been broken off for reasons not known to his informants, and he
could find out nothing about the gentleman, except that his name was Junius Keswick.

The fact that the lady had had a lover, put her in a new light before Lawrence Croft. He had
had an idea, suggested by the very friendly nature of their intercourse, that she was a woman
whose mind did not run out to love or marriage, but now that he knew that she was susceptible
of being wooed and won, because these things had actually happened to her, he was very glad
that he had come away from Midbranch.

The impression soon became very strong upon the mind of Lawrence that he would like to know
what kind of man was this former lover. He had known Miss March about a year, and at the time
of his first acquaintaince with her, she must have come very fresh from this engagement. To
study the man to whom Roberta March had been willing to engage herself, was, to Lawrence's
mode of thinking, if not a prerequisite procedure in his contemplated course of action, at
least a very desirable one.

But he was rather surprised to find that no one knew much about Mr Junius Keswick, or could
give him any account of his present whereabouts, although he had been, at the time when his
engagement was in force, a resident of New York. To consult a directory was, therefore, an
obvious first step in the affair; and, with this intent, Mr Croft entered, one morning, an
apothecary's shop in a street which, though a busy one, was in a rather out-of-the-way part
of the city.

"We haven't any directory, sir," said the clerk, "but if you will step across the street you
can find one at that little shop with the green door. Everybody goes there to look at the directory."

The green door on the opposite side of the street, approached by a single flat step of stone,
had a tin sign upon it, on which was painted:

"INFORMATION OF EVERY VARIETY FURNISHED WITHIN."

Pushing open the door, Lawrence entered a long, narrow room, not very well lighted, with a
short counter on one side, and some desks, partially screened by a curtain, at the farther
end. A boy was behind the counter, and to him Lawrence addressed himself, asking permission
to look at a city directory.

"One cent, if you look yourself; three cents, if we look," said the boy, producing a thick
volume from beneath the counter.

"One cent?" said Lawrence, smiling at the oddity of this charge, as he opened the book and
turned to the letter K.

"Yes," said the boy, "and if the fine print hurts your eyes, we'll look for three cents."

At this moment a man came from one of the desks at the other end of the room, and handed the
boy a letter with which that young person immediately departed. The new-comer, a smooth-shaven
man of about thirty, with the air of the proprietor or head manager very strong upon him, took
the boy's position behind the counter, and remarked to Lawrence: "Most people, when they first
come here, think it rather queer to pay for looking at the directory, but you see we don't
keep a directory to coax people to come in to buy medicines or anything else. We sell nothing
but information, and part of our stock is what you get out of a directory. But it's the best
plan all round, for we can afford to give you a clean, good book instead of one all jagged
and worn; and as you pay your money, you feel you can look as long as you like, and come when
you please."

"It is a very good plan," said Lawrence, closing the book, "but the name I want is not here."

"Perhaps it is in last year's directory," said the man, producing another volume from under
the counter.

"That wouldn't do me much good," said Lawrence. "I want to know where some one resides this year."

"It will do a great deal of good," said the other, "for if we know where a person has lived,
inquiries can be made there as to where he has gone. Sometimes we go back three or four years,
and when we have once found a man's name, we follow him up from place to place until we can
give the inquirer his present address. What is the name you wanted, sir? You were looking in
the K's."

"Keswick," said Lawrence, "Junius Keswick."

The man ran his finger and his eyes down a column, and remarked: "There is Keswick, but it
is Peter, laborer; I suppose that isn't the party."

Lawrence smiled, and shook his head.

"We will take the year before that," said the man with cheerful alacrity, heaving up another
volume. "Here's two Keswicks," he said in a moment, "one John, and the other Stephen W. Neither
of them right?"

"No," said Lawrence, "my man is Junius, and we need not go any farther back. I am afraid the
person I am looking for was only a sojourner in the city, and that his name did not get into
the directory. I know that he was here year before last."

