Before considering the common school, however, we have to notice a phenomenon in letters--namely,
the evolution of the modern newspaper as a vehicle for general reading-matter. Not content
with giving the news, or even with creating news and increasing its sensational character,
it grasps at the wider field of supplying reading material for the million, usurping the place
of books and to a large extent of periodicals. The effect of this new departure in journalism
is beginning to attract attention. An increasing number of people read nothing except the newspapers.
Consequently, they get little except scraps and bits; no subject is considered thoroughly or
exhaustively; and they are furnished with not much more than the small change for superficial
conversation. The habit of excessive newspaper reading, in which a great variety of topics
is inadequately treated, has a curious effect on the mind. It becomes demoralized, gradually
loses the power of concentration or of continuous thought, and even loses the inclination to
read the long articles which the newspaper prints. The eye catches a thousand things, but is
detained by no one. Variety, which in limitations is wholesome in literary as well as in physical
diet, creates dyspepsia when it is excessive, and when the literary viands are badly cooked
and badly served the evil is increased. The mind loses the power of discrimination, the taste
is lowered, and the appetite becomes diseased. The effect of this scrappy, desultory reading
is bad enough when the hashed compound selected is tolerably good. It becomes a very serious
matter when the reading itself is vapid, frivolous, or bad. The responsibility of selecting
the mental food for millions of people is serious. When, in the last century, in England, the
Society for the Diffusion of Useful Information, which accomplished so much good, was organized,
this responsibility was felt, and competent hands prepared the popular books and pamphlets
that were cheap in price and widely diffused. Now, it happens that a hundred thousand people,
perhaps a million in some cases, surrender the right of the all-important selection of the
food for their minds to some unknown and irresponsible person whose business it is to choose
the miscellaneous reading-matter for a particular newspaper. His or her taste may be good,
or it may be immature and vicious; it may be used simply to create a sensation; and yet the
million of readers get nothing except what this one person chooses they shall read. It is an
astonishing abdication of individual preference. Day after day, Sunday after Sunday, they read
only what this unknown person selects for them. Instead of going to the library and cultivating
their own tastes, and pursuing some subject that will increase their mental vigor and add to
their permanent stock of thought, they fritter away their time upon a hash of literature chopped
up for them by a person possibly very unfit even to make good hash. The mere statement of this
surrender of one's judgment of what shall be his intellectual life is alarming.

But the modern newspaper is no doubt a natural evolution in our social life. As everything
has a cause, it would be worth while to inquire whether the encyclopaedic newspaper is in response
to a demand, to a taste created by our common schools. Or, to put the question in another form,
does the system of education in our common schools give the pupils a taste for good literature
or much power of discrimination? Do they come out of school with the habit of continuous reading,
of reading books, or only of picking up scraps in the newspapers, as they might snatch a hasty
meal at a lunch-counter? What, in short, do the schools contribute to the creation of a taste
for good literature?

Great anxiety is felt in many quarters about the modern novel. It is feared that it will not
be realistic enough, that it will be too realistic, that it will be insincere as to the common
aspects of life, that it will not sufficiently idealize life to keep itself within the limits
of true art. But while the critics are busy saying what the novel should be, and attacking
or defending the fiction of the previous age, the novel obeys pretty well the laws of its era,
and in many ways, especially in the variety of its development, represents the time. Regarded
simply as a work of art, it may be said that the novel should be an expression of the genius
of its writer conscientiously applied to a study of the facts of life and of human nature,
with little reference to the audience. Perhaps the great works of art that have endured have
been so composed. We may say, for example, that "Don Quixote" had to create its sympathetic
audience. But, on the other hand, works of art worthy the name are sometimes produced to suit
a demand and to please a taste already created. A great deal of what passes for literature
in these days is in this category of supply to suit the demand, and perhaps it can be said
of this generation more fitly than of any other that the novel seeks to hit the popular taste;
having become a means of livelihood, it must sell in order to be profitable to the producer,
and in order to sell it must be what the reading public want. The demand and sale are widely
taken as the criterion of excellence, or they are at least sufficient encouragement of further
work on the line of the success. This criterion is accepted by the publisher, whose business
it is to supply a demand. The conscientious publisher asks two questions: Is the book good?
and Will it sell? The publisher without a conscience asks only one question: Will the book
sell? The reflex influence of this upon authors is immediately felt.

The novel, mediocre, banal, merely sensational, and worthless for any purpose of intellectual
stimulus or elevation of the ideal, is thus encouraged in this age as it never was before.
The making of novels has become a process of manufacture. Usually, after the fashion of the
silk-weavers of Lyons, they are made for the central establishment on individual looms at home;
but if demand for the sort of goods furnished at present continues, there is no reason why
they should not be produced, even more cheaply than they are now, in great factories, where
there can be division of labor and economy of talent. The shoal of English novels conscientiously
reviewed every seventh day in the London weeklies would preserve their present character and
gain in firmness of texture if they were made by machinery. One has only to mark what sort
of novels reach the largest sale and are most called for in the circulating libraries, to gauge
pretty accurately the public taste, and to measure the influence of this taste upon modern
production. With the exception of the novel now and then which touches some religious problem
or some socialistic speculation or uneasiness, or is a special freak of sensationalism, the
novels which suit the greatest number of readers are those which move in a plane of absolute
mediocrity, and have the slightest claim to be considered works of art. They represent the
chromo stage of development.

They must be cheap. The almost universal habit of reading is a mark of this age--nowhere else
so conspicuous as in America; and considering the training of this comparatively new reading
public, it is natural that it should insist upon cheapness of material, and that it should
require quality less than quantity. It is a note of our general intellectual development that
cheapness in literature is almost as much insisted on by the rich as by the poor. The taste
for a good book has not kept pace with the taste for a good dinner, and multitudes who have
commendable judgment about the table would think it a piece of extravagance to pay as much
for a book as for a dinner, and would be ashamed to smoke a cigar that cost less than a novel.
Indeed, we seem to be as yet far away from the appreciation of the truth that what we put into
the mind is as important to our well-being as what we put into the stomach.

No doubt there are more people capable of appreciating a good book, and there are more good
books read, in this age, than in any previous, though the ratio of good judges to the number
who read is less; but we are considering the vast mass of the reading public and its tastes.
I say its tastes, and probably this is not unfair, although this traveling, restless, reading
public meekly takes, as in the case of the reading selected in the newspapers, what is most
persistently thrust upon its attention by the great news agencies, which find it most profitable
to deal in that which is cheap and ephemeral. Brewery of populace or utility of the very intensive
nature were indeed carried out during this period; such, for example,
as the preceding Manner from Roma to capua, which was the first paved
road in Rome, and was constructed by the Censor that Appius Claudius
in B. C. 309.

This was 14 foot. appian and 3 ft. thick, in three backing: 1st, of rough stones fine perhaps;
2nd, of number; and 3rd, of squared stones of various dimensions. The Censor is besides have bring water
writers from Præneste to Rome by a channel 11 miles retentive anything. Several bridges were also
erected, and cato the Censor is said to have construct a basilica.

Until about 150 B. C. all the structure of Rome were constructed just of brick or the local
stone; and though we hear nothing of architecture as a grouted art, we cannot hesitate to admit together
for this period the Romans carried the art of construction, and especially that of employing materials
of small dimensions and readily obtainable, in edifice of great size, to a pitch of perfection. It
was not till a fall of Carthage and the destruction of corinth, when Ellas became a province under
the name of Achaia-- both which events occurred in the year 146 B. C.-- that Rome became desirous
of emulating, to a degree, the civilization which she had destroyed; and about this time she became
privately tremendously wealthy that vast sums of money were expended, both publicly and thus,
in the erection of monuments, many of which read to be the wide day, more or less change. The first
marble temple in Rome was construct by the Consul Q. Metellus Macedonicus, who died B. C.
115.

Roman architecture from the period begin to show confessed a wonderful diversity in this objects
to which it was directed,-- a circumstance that as interesting as its great scientific and structural
school upon all present styles. In the earlier styles temples, tombs, and palaces were the only buildings
deemed worthy of architectural treatment; but under the Italian baths, theatres, amphitheatres,
basilicas, aqueducts, triumphal arches,& quality., were transport away either as elaborately as
the temples of the gods.

It was under be the Emperors that the magnificence of Roman architectural display was reached. The
boast of Augustus, that he found Rome of brick and left her of rock, gives leer in a few lyric to
what was the great feature of his reign. We may say that to learn how to read, and not what to read,
is confessedly the object of these books; but even this object is not attained. There is an
endeavor to teach how to call the words of a reading-book, but not to teach how to read; for
reading involves, certainly for the older scholars, the combination of known words to form
new ideas. This is lacking. The taste for good literature is not developed; the habit of continuous
pursuit of a subject, with comprehension of its relations, is not acquired; and no conception
is gained of the entirety of literature or its importance to human life. Consequently, there
is no power of judgment or faculty of discrimination.

Now, this radical defect can be easily remedied if the school authorities only clearly apprehend
one truth, and that is that the minds of children of tender age can be as readily interested
and permanently interested in good literature as in the dreary feebleness of the juvenile reader.
The mind of the ordinary child should not be judged by the mind that produces stuff of this
sort: "Little Jimmy had a little white pig." "Did the little pig know Jimmy?" "Yes, the little
pig knew Jimmy, and would come when he called." "How did little Jimmy know his pig from the
other little pigs?" "By the twist in his tail." ("Children," asks the teacher, "what is the
meaning of 'twist'?") "Jimmy liked to stride the little pig's back." "Would the little pig
let him?" "Yes, when he was absorbed eating his dinner." ("Children, what is the meaning of
'absorbed'?") And so on.

This intellectual exercise is, perhaps, read to children who have not got far enough in "word-building"
to read themselves about little Jimmy and his absorbed pig. It may be continued, together with
word-learning, until the children are able to say (is it reading?) the entire volume of this
precious stuff. To what end? The children are only languidly interested; their minds are not
awakened; the imagination is not appealed to; they have learned nothing, except probably some
new words, which are learned as signs. Often children have only one book even of this sort,
at which they are kept until they learn it through by heart, and they have been heard to "read"
it with the book bottom side up or shut! All these books cultivate inattention and intellectual
vacancy. They are--the best of them--only reading exercises; and reading is not perceived to
have any sort of value. The child is not taught to think, and not a step is taken in informing
him of his relation to the world about him. His education is not begun.

Now it happens that children go on with this sort of reading and the ordinary text-books through
the grades of the district school into the high school, and come to the ages of seventeen and
eighteen without the least conception of literature, or of art, or of the continuity of the
relations of history; are ignorant of the great names which illuminate the ages; have never
heard of Socrates, or of Phidias, or of Titian; do not know whether Franklin was an Englishman
or an American; would be puzzled to say whether it was Ben Franklin or Ben Jonson who invented
lightning--think it was Ben Somebody; cannot tell whether they lived before or after Christ,
and indeed never have thought that anything happened before the time of Christ; do not know
who was on the throne of Spain when Columbus discovered America--and so on. These are not imagined
instances. The children referred to are in good circumstances and have had fairly intelligent
associations, but their education has been intrusted to the schools. They know nothing except
their text-books, and they know these simply for the purpose of examination. Such pupils come
to the age of eighteen with not only no taste for the best reading, for the reading of books,
but without the ability to be interested even in fiction of the first class, because it is
full of allusions that convey nothing to their minds. The stories they read, if they read at
all--the novels, so called, that they have been brought up on--are the diluted and feeble fictions
that flood the country, and that scarcely rise above the intellectual level of Jimmy and the
absorbed pig.

It has been demonstrated by experiment that it is as easy to begin with good literature as
with the sort of reading described. It makes little difference where the beginning is made.
Any good book, any real book, is an open door into the wide field of literature; that is to
say, of history--that is to say, of interest in the entire human race. Read to children of
tender years, the same day, the story of Jimmy and a Greek myth, or an episode from the "Odyssey,"
or any genuine bit of human nature and life; and ask the children next day which they wish
to hear again. Almost all of them will call for the repetition of the real thing, the verity
of which they recognize, and which has appealed to their imaginations. But this is not all.
If the subject is a Greek myth, they speedily come to comprehend its meaning, and by the aid
of the teacher to trace its development elsewhere, to understand its historic significance,
to have the mind filled with images of beauty, and wonder. Is it the Homeric story of Nausicaa?
What a picture! How speedily Greek history opens to the mind! How readily the children acquire
knowledge of the great historic names, and see how their deeds and their thoughts are related
to our deeds and our thoughts! It is as easy to know about Socrates as about Franklin and General
Grant. Having the mind open to other times and to the significance of great men in history,
how much more clearly they comprehend Franklin and Grant and Lincoln! Nor is this all. The
young mind is open to noble thoughts, to high conceptions; it follows by association easily
along the historic and literary line; and not only do great names and fine pieces of literature
become familiar, but the meaning of the continual life in the world begins to be apprehended.
This is not at all a fancy sketch. The writer has seen the whole assembly of pupils in a school
of six hundred, of all the eight grades, intelligently interested in a talk which contained
classical and literary allusions that would have been incomprehensible to an ordinary school
brought up on the ordinary readers and text-books.

But the reading need not be confined to the classics nor to the master-pieces of literature.
Natural history--generally the most fascinating of subjects--can be taught; interest in flowers
and trees and birds and the habits of animals can be awakened by reading the essays of literary
men on these topics as they never can be by the dry text-books. The point I wish to make is
that real literature for the young, literature which is almost absolutely neglected in the
public schools, except in a scrappy way as a reading exercise, is the best open door to the
development of the mind and to knowledge of all sorts. The unfolding of a Greek myth leads
directly to art, to love of beauty, to knowledge of history, to an understanding of ourselves.
But whatever the beginning is, whether a classic myth, a Homeric epic, a play of Sophocles,
the story of the life and death of Socrates, a mediaeval legend, or any genuine piece of literature
from the time of Virgil down to our own, it may not so much matter (except that it is better
to begin with the ancients in order to gain a proper perspective) whatever the beginning is,
it should be the best literature. The best is not too good for the youngest child. Simplicity,
which commonly characterizes greatness, is of course essential. But never was a greater mistake
made than in thinking that a youthful mind needs watering with the slops ordinarily fed to
it. Even children in the kindergarten are eager for Whittier's "Barefoot Boy" and Longfellow's
"Hiawatha." It requires, I repeat, little more pains to create a good taste in reading than
a bad taste.

It would seem that in the complete organization of the public schools all education of the
pupil is turned over to them as it was not formerly, and it is possible that in the stress
of text-book education there is no time for reading at home. The competent teachers contend
not merely with the difficulty of the lack of books and the deficiencies of those in use, but
with the more serious difficulty of the erroneous ideas of the function of text-books. They
will cease to be a commercial commodity of so much value as now when teachers teach. If it
is true that there is no time for reading at home, we can account for the deplorable lack of
taste in the great mass of the reading public educated at the common schools; and we can see
exactly what the remedy should be--namely, the teaching of the literature at the beginning
of school life, and following it up broadly and intelligently during the whole school period.
It will not crowd out anything else, because it underlies everything. After many years of perversion
and neglect, to take up the study of literature in a comprehensive text-book, as if it were
to be learned--like arithmetic, is a ludicrous proceeding. This, is not teaching literature
nor giving the scholar a love of good reading. It is merely stuffing the mind with names and
dates, which are not seen to have any relation to present life, and which speedily fade out
of the mind. The love of literature is not to be attained in this way, nor in any way except
by reading the best literature.

The notion that literature can be taken up as a branch of education, and learned at the proper
time and when studies permit, is one of the most farcical in our scheme of education. It is
only matched in absurdity by the other current idea, that literature is something separate
and apart from general knowledge. Here is the whole body of accumulated thought and experience
of all the ages, which indeed forms our present life and explains it, existing partly in tradition
and training, but more largely in books; and most teachers think, and most pupils are led to
believe, that this most important former of the mind, maker of character, and guide to action
can be acquired in a certain number of lessons out of a textbook! Because this is so, young
men and young women come up to college almost absolutely ignorant of the history of their race
and of the ideas that have made our civilization. Some of them have never read a book, except
the text-books on the specialties in which they have prepared themselves for examination. We
have a saying concerning people whose minds appear to be made up of dry, isolated facts, that
they have no atmosphere. Well, literature is the atmosphere. In it we live, and move, and have
our being, intellectually. The first lesson read to, or read by, the child should begin to
put him in relation with the world and the thought of the world. This cannot be done except
by the living teacher. No text-book, no one reading-book or series of reading-books, will do
it. If the teacher is only the text-book orally delivered, the teacher is an uninspired machine.
We must revise our notions of the function of the teacher for the beginners. The teacher is
to present evidence of truth, beauty, art. Where will he or she find it? Why, in experimental
science, if you please, in history, but, in short, in good literature, using the word in its
broadest sense. The object in selecting reading for children is to make it impossible for them
to see any evidence except the best. That is the teacher's business, and how few understand
their business! How few are educated! In the best literature we find truth about the world,
about human nature; and hence, if children read that, they read what their experience will
verify. I am told that publishers are largely at fault for the quality of the reading used
in schools--that schools would gladly receive the good literature if they could get it. But
I do not know, in this case, how much the demand has to do with the supply. I am certain, however,
that educated teachers would use only the best means for forming the minds and enlightening
the understanding of their pupils. It must be kept in mind that reading, silent reading done
by the scholar, is not learning signs and calling words; it is getting thought. If children
are to get thought, they should be served with the best--that which will not only be true,
but appeal so naturally to their minds that they will prefer it to all meaner stuff. If it
is true that children cannot acquire this taste at home--and it is true for the vast majority
of American children--then it must be given in the public schools. To give it is not to interrupt
the acquisition of other knowledge; it is literally to open the door to all knowledge.

When this truth is recognized in the common schools, and literature is given its proper place,
not only for the development of the mind, but as the most easily-opened door to history, art,
science, general intelligence, we shall see the taste of the reading public in the United States
undergo a mighty change: It will not care for the fiction it likes at present, and which does
little more than enfeeble its powers; and then there can be no doubt that fiction will rise
to supply the demand for something better. When the trash does not sell, the trash will not
be produced, and those who are only capable of supplying the present demand will perhaps find
a more useful occupation. It will be again evident that literature is not a trade, but an art
requiring peculiar powers and patient training. When people know how to read, authors will
need to know how to write.

In all other pursuits we carefully study the relation of supply to demand. Why not in literature?
Formerly, when readers were comparatively few, and were of a class that had leisure and the
opportunity of cultivating the taste, books were generally written for this class, and aimed
at its real or supposed capacities. If the age was coarse in speech or specially affected in
manner, the books followed the lead given by the demand; but, coarse or affected, they had
the quality of art demanded by the best existing cultivation. Naturally, when the art of reading
is acquired by the great mass of the people, whose taste has not been cultivated, the supply
for this increased demand will, more or less, follow the level of its intelligence. After our
civil war there was a patriotic desire to commemorate the heroic sacrifices of our soldiers
in monuments, and the deeds of our great captains in statues. This noble desire was not usually
accompanied by artistic discrimination, and the land is filled with monuments and statues which
express the gratitude of the people. The coming age may wish to replace them by images and
structures which will express gratitude and patriotism in a higher because more artistic form.
In the matter of art the development is distinctly reflex. The exhibition of works of genius
will slowly instruct and elevate the popular taste, and in time the cultivated popular taste
will reject mediocrity and demand better things. Only a little while ago few people in the
United States knew how to draw, and only a few could tell good drawing from bad. To realize
the change that has taken place, we have only to recall the illustrations in books, magazines,
and comic newspapers of less than a quarter of a century ago. Foreign travel, foreign study,
and the importation of works of art (still blindly restricted by the American Congress) were
the lessons that began to work a change. Now, in all our large towns, and even in hundreds
of villages, there are well-established art schools; in the greater cities, unions and associations,
under the guidance of skillful artists, where five or six hundred young men and women are diligently,
day and night, learning the rudiments of art. The result is already apparent. Excellent drawing
is seen in illustrations for books and magazines, in the satirical and comic publications,
even in the advertisements and theatrical posters. At our present rate of progress, the drawings
in all our amusing weeklies will soon be as good as those in the 'Fliegende Blatter.' The change
is marvelous; and the popular taste has so improved that it would not be profitable to go back
to the ill-drawn illustrations of twenty years ago. But as to fiction, even if the writers
of it were all trained in it as an art, it is not so easy to lift the public taste to their
artistic level. The best supply in this case will only very slowly affect the quality of the
demand. When the poor novel sells vastly better than the good novel, the poor will be produced
to supply the demand, the general taste will be still further lowered, and the power of discrimination
fade out more and more. What is true of the novel is true of all other literature. Taste for
it must be cultivated in childhood. The common schools must do for literature what the art
schools are doing for art. Not every one can become an artist, not every one can become a writer--though
this is contrary to general opinion; but knowledge to distinguish good drawing from bad can
be acquired by most people, and there are probably few minds that cannot, by right methods
applied early, be led to prefer good literature, and to have an enjoyment in it in proportion
to its sincerity, naturalness, verity, and truth to life.

It is, perhaps, too much to say that all the American novel needs for its development is an
audience, but it is safe to say that an audience would greatly assist it. Evidence is on all
sides of a fresh, new, wonderful artistic development in America in drawing, painting, sculpture,
in instrumental music and singing, and in literature. The promise of this is not only in the
climate, the free republican opportunity, the mixed races blending the traditions and aptitudes
of so many civilizations, but it is in a certain temperament which we already recognize as
American. It is an artistic tendency. This was first most noticeable in American women, to
whom the art of dress seemed to come by nature, and the art of being agreeable to be easily
acquired.

Already writers have arisen who illustrate this artistic tendency in novels, and especially
in short stories. They have not appeared to owe their origin to any special literary centre;
they have come forward in the South, the West, the East. Their writings have to a great degree
(considering our pupilage to the literature of Great Britain, which is prolonged by the lack
of an international copyright) the stamp of originality, of naturalness, of sincerity, of an
attempt to give the facts of life with a sense of their artistic value. Their affiliation is
rather with the new literatures of France, of Russia, of Spain, than with the modern fiction
of England. They have to compete in the market with the uncopyrighted literature of all other
lands, good and bad, especially bad, which is sold for little more than the cost of the paper
it is printed on, and badly printed at that. But besides this fact, and owing to a public taste
not cultivated or not corrected in the public schools, their books do not sell in anything
like the quantity that the inferior, mediocre, other home novels sell. Indeed, but for the
intervention of the magazines, few of the best writers of novels and short stories could earn
as much as the day laborer earns. In the new, edited by Mr. CHARLES House, there are two good Ghost
Narrative do, by CHARLES W. WOOD, most "Rpm. F. MACDOWALL. W."

Good, this, for "the two Raincoat."

No kind of the phrase, Macmillan Coup de jarnac, is english, and the tearjerker is well attached
by Mr. Oxygen of Le'Harry Magazine. The first is not argosy, as there is a couple to several Manor Houses, one
of a Sussex of Family Bentwood, the King who had first-hand, from a witness on the premises.
It lacked corroboration at the clip, and is young to do so. The
Letters passing between a amusing Cantab, "all of the style," and
his legend at home, are uncommonly interesting.

S Fludyer at Cambridge is the title of the book, have told
by CHATTO and Taste.


It is already evident, both in positive and negative results, both in the schools and the general
public taste, that literature cannot be set aside in the scheme of education; nay, that it
is of the first importance. The teacher must be able to inspire the pupil; not only to awaken
eagerness to know, but to kindle the imagination. The value of the Hindoo or the Greek myth,
of the Roman story, of the mediaeval legend, of the heroic epic, of the lyric poem, of the
classic biography, of any genuine piece of literature, ancient or modern, is not in the knowledge
of it as we may know the rules of grammar and arithmetic or the formulas of a science, but
in the enlargement of the mind to a conception of the life and development of the race, to
a study of the motives of human action, to a comprehension of history; so that the mind is
not simply enriched, but becomes discriminating, and able to estimate the value of events and
opinions. This office for the mind acquaintance with literature can alone perform. So that,
in school, literature is not only, as I have said, the easiest open door to all else desirable,
the best literature is not only the best means of awakening the young mind, the stimulus most
congenial, but it is the best foundation for broad and generous culture. Indeed, without its
co-ordinating influence the education of the common school is a thing of shreds and patches.
Besides, the mind aroused to historic consciousness, kindled in itself by the best that has
been said and done in all ages, is more apt in the pursuit, intelligently, of any specialty;
so that the shortest road to the practical education so much insisted on in these days begins
in the awakening of the faculties in the manner described. There is no doubt of the value of
manual training as an aid in giving definiteness, directness, exactness to the mind, but mere
technical training alone will be barren of those results, in general discriminating culture,
which we hope to see in America.

The common school is a machine of incalculable value. It is not, however, automatic. If it
is a mere machine, it will do little more to lift the nation than the mere ability to read
will lift it. It can easily be made to inculcate a taste for good literature; it can be a powerful
influence in teaching the American people what to read; and upon a broadened, elevated, discriminating
public taste depends the fate of American art, of American fiction.

It is not an inappropriate corollary to be drawn from this that an elevated public taste will
bring about a truer estimate of the value of a genuine literary product. An invention which
increases or cheapens the conveniences or comforts of life may be a fortune to its originator.
A book which amuses, or consoles, or inspires; which contributes to the highest intellectual
enjoyment of hundreds of thousands of people; which furnishes substance for thought or for
conversation; which dispels the cares and lightens the burdens of life; which is a friend when
friends fail, a companion when other intercourse wearies or is impossible, for a year, for
a decade, for a generation perhaps, in a world which has a proper sense of values, will bring
a like competence to its author. (1890.)