On the 14th we resumed the route which we had traversed a few months before under far different
auspices.  The thermometer registered twenty degrees, and we were still very far from France.
After a slow and painful march we arrived at Krasnoi.  The Emperor was obliged to go in person,
with his guard, to meet the enemy, and release the Prince of Eckmuhl.  He passed through the
fire of the enemy, surrounded by his old guard, who pressed around their chief in platoons
in which the shell made large gaps, furnishing one of the grandest examples in all history
of the devotion and love of thousands of men to one.  When the fire was hottest, the band played
the air, 'Where can one be better than in the bosom of his family?'  Napoleon interrupted them,
exclaiming, "Play rather, 'Let us watch over the safety of the Empire.'"  It is difficult to
imagine anything grander.

The Emperor returned from this combat much fatigued.  He had passed several nights without
sleeping, listening to the reports made to him on the condition of the army, expediting orders
necessary to procure food for the soldiers, and putting in motion the different corps which
were to sustain the retreat.  Never did his stupendous activity find more constant employment;
never did he show a higher courage than in the midst of all these calamities of which he seemed
to feel the weighty responsibility.

Between Orcha and the Borysthenes those conveyances for which there were no longer horses were
burned, and the confusion and discouragement became so great that in the rear of the army most
of the stragglers threw down their arms as a heavy and useless burden.  The officers of the
armed police had orders to return by force those who abandoned their corps, and often they
were obliged to prick them with their swords to make them advance.  The intensity of their
sufferings had hardened the heart of the soldier, which is naturally kind and sympathizing,
to such an extent that the most unfortunate intentionally caused commotions in order that they
might seize from some better equipped companion sometimes a cloak, sometimes food.  "There
are the Cossacks!" was their usual cry of alarm; and when these guilty tricks became known,
and our soldiers recovered from their surprise, there were reprisals, and the confusion reached
its height.

The corps of Marshal Davoust was one of those which suffered most in the whole army.  Of the
seventy thousand men with which it left France, there only remained four or five thousand,
and they were dying of famine.  The marshal himself was terribly emaciated.  He had neither
clothing nor food.  Hunger and fatigue had hollowed his cheeks, and his whole appearance inspired
pity.  This brave marshal, who had twenty times escaped Russian bullets, now saw himself dying
of hunger; and when one of his soldiers gave him a loaf, he seized it and devoured it.  He
was also the one who was least silent; and while thawing his mustache, on which the rain had
frozen, he railed indignantly against the evil destiny which had thrown them into thirty degrees
of cold.  Moderation in words was difficult while enduring such sufferings.

For some time the Emperor had been in a state of great anxiety as to the fate of Marshal Ney,
who had been cut off, and obliged to clear for himself a passage through the midst of the Russians,
who followed us on every side.

As time passed the alarm increased.  The Emperor demanded incessantly if Ney had yet been seen,
accusing himself of having exposed this brave general too much, asking for him as for a good
friend whom one has lost. The whole army shared and manifested the same anxiety, as if this
brave soldier were the only one in danger.  A few regarding him as certainly lost, and seeing
the enemy threaten the bridges of the Borysthenes, proposed to cut them; but the army was unanimous
in their opposition to this measure.

On the 20th, the Emperor, whom this idea filled with the deepest dejection, arrived at Basanoni,
and was dining in company with the Prince of Neuchatel and the Duke of Dantzic, when General
Gourgaud rushed in with the announcement that Marshal Ney and his troops were only a few leagues
distant.  The Emperor exclaimed with inconceivable joy, "Can it be true?"  M. Gourgaud gave
him particulars, which were soon known throughout the camp.  This news brought joy to the hearts
of all, each of whom accosted the other eagerly, as if each had found a long-lost brother;
they spoke of the heroic courage which had been displayed; the talent shown in saving his corps
in spite of snows, floods, and the attacks of the enemy.  It is due Marshal Ney, to state here,
that according to the opinion I have heard expressed by our most illustrious warriors, his
safe retreat is a feat of arms to which history furnishes no parallel.  The heart of our soldiers
palpitated.  with enthusiasm, and on that day they felt the emotions of the day of victory!
Ney and his division gained immortality by this marvelous display of valor and energy.  So
much the better for the few survivors of this handful of braves, who can read of the great
deeds they have done, in these annals inspired by them.  His Majesty said several times, "I
would give all the silver in the vaults of the Tuileries to have my brave Ney at my side."

To Prince Eugene was given the honor of going to meet Marshal Ney, with a corps of four thousand
soldiers.  Marshal Mortier had disputed this honor with him, but among these illustrious men
there were never any but noble rivalries.  The danger was immense; the cannon of Prince Eugene
was used as a signal, understood by the marshal, to which he replied by platoon fires.  The
two corps met, and even before they were united, Marshal Ney and Prince Eugene were in each
other's arms; and it is said that the latter wept for joy.  Such scenes make this horrible
picture seem somewhat less gloomy.  As far as the Beresina, our march was only a succession
of small skirmishes and terrible sufferings.

The Emperor passed one night at Caniwki, in a wooden cabin containing only two rooms.  The
one at the back was selected by him, and in the other the whole service slept pell-mell.  I
was more comfortable, as I slept in his Majesty's room; but several times during the night
I was obliged to pass into this room, and was then compelled to step over the sleepers worn
out by fatigue.  Although I took care not to hurt them, they were so close together that it
was impossible not to place my feet on their legs or arms.

In the retreat from Moscow, the Emperor walked on foot, wrapped in his pelisse, his head covered
with a Russian cap tied under the chin.  I marched often near the brave Marshal Lefebvre, who
seemed very fond of me, and said to me in his German-French, in speaking of the Emperor, "He
is surrounded by a set of who do not tell the truth; he does not distinguish sufficiently his
good from his bad servants.  How will he get out of this, the poor Emperor, whom I love so
devotedly?  I am always in fear of his life; if there were needed to save him only my blood,
I would shed it drop by drop; but that would change nothing, and perhaps he may have need of me."

CHAPTER VII.

