People often seem to take me for some one else; they talk to me as if I were a person of earnest
views and unalterable convictions. 'What is your opinion of Democracy?' they ask: 'Are you
in favour of the Channel Tunnel?' 'Do you believe in existence after Death?'

I assume a thoughtful attitude, and by means of grave looks and evasive answers, I conceal--or
at least I hope I conceal--my discreditable secret.

THE LIFT

What on earth had I come up for? I stood out of breath in my bedroom, having completely forgotten
the errand which had carried me upstairs, leaping two steps at a time.

Gloves! Of course it was my gloves which I had left there. But what did gloves matter, I asked
myself, in a world, as Dr. Johnson describes it, bursting with misery?

O stars and garters! how bored I am by this trite, moralising way of regarding natural phenomena--this
crying of vanity on the beautiful manifestations of mechanical forces. This desire of mine
to appear out of doors in appropriate apparel, if it can thus defy and overcome the law of
gravitation, if it can lift twelve stone of matter thirty or forty feet above the earth's surface;
if it can do this every day, and several times a day, and never get out of order, is it not
as remarkable and convenient in the house as a hydraulic lift?

SLOANE STREET

When I walk out, middle-aged, but still sprightly, and still, if the truth must be told, with
an idiot dream in my heart of some romantic encounter, I look at the passers-by, say in Sloane
Street, and then I begin to imagine moonfaces more alluring than any I see in that thoroughfare.
But then again vaster thoughts visit me, remote metaphysical musings; those faces like moons
I imagined all wane as moons wane, the passers-by vanish; and immortal Reason, disdaining the
daymoth she dwells with, turns away to her crystalline sphere of sublime contemplation. I am
lost out of time, I walk on alone in a world of white silence.

REGENT'S PARK

I wondered, as I passed Regent's Park on my way to Hampstead, what kind of people live in those
great stuccoed terraces and crescents, with their solemn façades and friezes and pediments
and statues. People larger than life I picture the inhabitants of those inexpensive, august,
unfashionable houses, people with a dignity of port, an amplitude of back, an emphasis of vocabulary
and conviction unknown in other regions; Dowagers and Dignitaries who have retired from a world
no longer worthy of them, ex-Governors of Dominions, unavailing Viceroys, superannuated Bishops
and valetudinarian Generals, who wear top-hats and drive around the Park in old-fashioned barouches--a
society, I imagine it, not frivolous, not flippant, entirely devoid of double meanings; a society
in which the memory of Queen Victoria is still revered, and regrets are still felt, perhaps,
for the death of the Prince Consort.

Or, as I have sometimes fancied, are those noble mansions the homes of the Victorian Statesmen
and Royal Ladies and distinguished-looking Murderers who, in the near-by wax-work exhibition,
gaze on the shallow, modern generation which chatters and pushes all day before the glassy
disapprobation of their eyes?

THE AVIARY

Peacock Vanities, great, crested Cockatoos of Glory, gay Infatuations and painted Daydreams--what
a pity it is all the Blue Birds of impossible Paradises have such beaks and sharp claws, that
one really has to keep them shut up in their not too cleanly cages!

ST. JOHN'S WOOD

As I walked on the air soon lightened; the Throne, the Altar and the top-hat cast fainter shadows,
the figures of John Bright and Gladstone and Queen Victoria faded from my mind. I had entered
the precincts of St. John's Wood; and as I went past its villas of coquettish aspect, with
their gay Swiss gables, their frivolously Gothic or Italian or almost Oriental faces, the lighter
aspects of existence they represent, the air they have of not taking life too seriously, began
to exert their influence.

St. John's Wood is the home in fiction of adventuresses and profligacy and Bohemian supper-parties;
often have I read about those foreign Countesses, of unknown history and incredible fascination,
who decoy handsome young officials of the Foreign Office to these villas, and rob them, in
dim-lit, scented bedrooms, of important documents. But I at least have never too harshly blamed
these young diplomatists. Silent is the street as the mysterious brougham pauses, lovely the
eyes that flash, and graceful the white-gloved hand that beckons from the carriage window;
and how can they resist (for they are only human) the lure of so adventurous, so enchanting
an invitation?

THE GARDEN SUBURB

I had often heard of the Hampstead Garden Suburb, and the attempt of its inhabitants to create
an atmosphere of the Higher Culture, to concentrate, as it were, the essence of the ideal life
in one region. But I must now confess that it was in a spirit of profane curiosity that I walked
up towards its courts and closes. And when I saw the notices of the Societies for Ethical Culture
and Handicrafts and Child Study, the lectures on Reincarnation, the Holy Grail, the Signs of
the Zodiac, and the Teaching of the Holy Zoroaster, I am afraid I laughed. But how shallow,
how thin this laughter soon sounded amid the quiet amenity, the beautiful distinction of this
pretty paradise! It was an afternoon of daydreams; the autumnal light under the low clouds
was propitious to inner recollection; and as I walked the streets of this ideal city, soothed
by the sense of order and beautiful architecture all around me, I began to feel that I too
was an Idealist, that here was my spiritual home, and that it would be a right and seemly thing
to give up the cinemas and come and make my dwelling on this hill-top. Pictures floated before
my eyes of tranquil days, days of gardening and handicrafts and lectures, evenings spent in
perusing the world's masterpieces.

Although I still frequent the cinemas, and spend too much time gazing in at the windows of
expensive shops, and the reverie of that afternoon has come to no fruition, yet I feel myself
a better person for it: I feel that it marks me off from the merely cynical and worldly. For
I at least have had a Pisgah sight of the Promised City; I have made its ideal my own, if but
for an afternoon, and only in a daydream.

SUNDAY CALLS

'Well, I must say!' Reason exclaimed, when we found ourselves in the street again.

'What's the matter now?' I asked uneasily.

'Why are you always trying to be some one else? Why not be what you really are?'

'But what am I really? Again I ask you?'

'I do hate to see you playing the ass; and think how they must laugh at you!'

The glossy and respected image of myself I had left in the house behind us began to tarnish.

'And what next?' my querulous companion went on. 'What will you be in South Kensington, I wonder?
a sad and solitary Satan, disillusioned and distinguished, or a bluff, breezy sailor, fond
of his bottle and his boon companions?'

AN ANOMALY

When people embellish their conversation with a glitter of titles, and drag into it self-aggrandizing
anecdotes, though I laugh at this peacock vein in them, I do not harshly condemn it. Nay, since
I too am human, since I too belong to the great household, would it be surprising if--say once
or twice in my life--I also should have gratified this tickling relish of the tongue?

No--but what is surprising, is the way that, as I feel, I alone always escape detection, always
throw dust in other people's eyes.

THE LISTENER

The topic was one of my favourite topics of conversation, but I didn't at all feel on this
occasion that it was I who was speaking. No, it was the Truth shining through me; the light
of the Revelation which I had been chosen to proclaim and blazon to the world. No wonder they
were all impressed by my moving tones and gestures; no wonder even the fastidious lady whom
it was most difficult to please kept watching me with almost ecstatic attention.

As a cloud may obscure the sun in his glory, so from some morass of memory arose a tiny mist
of words to darken my mind for a moment. I brushed them aside; they had no meaning. Sunning
myself in the mirror of those eyes, never, for a moment, could I credit that devil-suggested
explanation of their gaze.

Oh, no! that phrase I had heard, I had heard, was a nonsense phrase; the words, 'She mimics
you to perfection,' were nothing but a bit of unintelligible jabber.

ABOVE THE CLOUDS

'I do so hate gossip,' she murmured.

'How I hate it too!' I heard myself exclaim.

'There is so much that is good and noble in human nature; why not talk of that?'

'Why not indeed?' I sighed.

'I always feel that it is one's own fault if one dislikes people, or finds them boring.'

'How I agree with you!' I cried sincerely.

'But people are nowadays so cynical--they sneer at everything that makes life worth living--Love,
Faith, Friendship--'

'And yet those very names are so lovely that even when used in mockery they shed a radiance--they
shine like stars.'

'How beautifully you put it! I have so enjoyed our talk.' I had enjoyed it too, and felt all
the better for it, only a little giddy and out of breath, as if I had been up in a balloon.

THE BUBBLE

Walking home at night, troubled by the world's affairs, and with the National Debt crushing
down my weak shoulders, I sometimes allow my Thoughts an interlude of solace. From the jar
in which I keep my vanity bottled, I remove the cork; out rushes that friendly Jinn and swells
up and fills the sky. I walk on lightly through another world, a world in which I cut a very
different figure.

I shall not describe that exquisite, evanescent universe; even for me 'tis but the bubble of
a moment; I soon snuff it out, or of itself it melts in the thin air.

CAUTION

With all that I know about life, all this cynical and sad knowledge of what happens and must
happen, all the experience and caution and disillusion stored and packed in the uncanny, cold,
grey matter of my cerebrum--with all this inside my head, how can I ever dream of banging it
against the Stars?

DESIRES

These exquisite and absurd fancies of mine--little curiosities, and greedinesses, and impulses
to kiss and touch and snatch, and all the vanities and artless desires that nest and sing in
my heart like birds in a bush--all these, we are now told, are an inheritance from our pre-human
past, and were hatched long ago in very ancient swamps and forests. But what of that? I like
to share in the dumb delights of birds and animals, to feel my life drawing its sap from roots
deep in the soil of Nature. I am proud of those bright-eyed, furry, four-footed progenitors,
and not at all ashamed of my cousins, the Tigers and Apes and Peacocks.

MOMENTS

'Awful moments? Why, yes, of course,' I said, 'life is full of them--let me think--'

'To find other people's unposted letters in an old pocket; to be seen looking at oneself in
a street-mirror, or overhead talking of the Ideal to a duchess; to refuse Nuns who come to
the door to ask for subscriptions, or to be lent by a beautiful new acquaintance a book she
has written full of mystical slipslop, or dreadful musings in an old-world garden--'

THE EPITAPH

'But perhaps he is a friend of yours?' said my lips. 'Is it safe?' my eyes asked, 'Dare I tell
you what I think of him?'

It was safe; only silence fell upon them, those Sad Ones, who at my decease should murmur,
'He never said of any one an unkind word.' 'Alas, Farewell!' breathed that boyish daydream
of my funeral, as it faded.

INTERRUPTION

