If you go to Verdun you will see that the estimate that the world has placed upon it is illusory.
You will see it is an abandoned town. You will see, as I did, that great and famous forts are
without guns, and you will see, as I did, that the positions which the French have prepared
behind the Meuse and above the town are vastly stronger than those which they have held successfully,
in Lorraine or any other place where the attacks have been bitter, for nearly two years.

There are no forts, fortifications, fortresses, in this war. There are just trenches, and the
Verdun sector is no exception. Verdun is not surrounded; it is not invested. I went to the
town from Bar-le-Duc in an automobile without difficulty, and I ran back to Paris by another
road, through Châlons, with equal ease. The Germans have never got within three miles of the
town on any side; to the west of the River Meuse they are not within six miles of it. They
are not gaining, and have not been gaining for weeks; they are merely fighting a desperate
trench campaign, and the French are fighting back, retaking trenches on the east of the river,
because they are in their last line on this bank of the river, but paying less attention to
German trench gains on the west because the Germans are still far from the Charny Ridge, their
main position.

If Verdun falls, that is, if the French are compelled under pressure or as a result of the
cost of holding their present awkward position to go back behind the river, they will lose
fifty or a hundred square miles of French territory, they will lose all the tremendous value
of the moral "lift" which the successful defence has brought, but they will lose nothing else;
and when the Germans have taken Verdun, the ashes, the ruins, they will stop, because there
is no object or value in further attack. They are fighting for moral values, and the French
politician has overruled the French soldier and compelled him to accept battle on unfavorable
ground for this same moral value, but against his military judgment. He has done it successfully.
He expects and France expects that he will continue to do it successfully, but in the wholly
remote contingency that he failed (I can only say that it is a contingency no longer considered
in France), a loss in moral advantage would be the only consequence.

V

IN SIGHT OF THE PROMISED LAND--ON THE LORRAINE BATTLEFIELD

In the third week of August, 1914, a French army crossed the frontier of Alsace-Lorraine and
entered the Promised Land, toward which all Frenchmen had looked in hope and sadness for forty-four
years. The long-forgotten communiqués of that early period of the war reported success after
success, until at last it was announced that the victorious French armies had reached Sarrebourg
and Morhange, and were astride the Strassburg-Metz Railroad. And then Berlin took up the cry,
and France and the world learned of a great German victory and of the defeat and rout of the
invading army. Even Paris conceded that the retreat had begun and the "army of liberation"
was crowding back beyond the frontier and far within French territory.

Then the curtain of the censorship fell and the world turned to the westward to watch the terrible
battle for Paris. In the agony and glory of the Marne the struggle along the Moselle was forgotten;
the Battle of Nancy, of Lorraine, was fought and won in the darkness, and when the safety of
Paris was assured the world looked toward the Aisne, and then toward Flanders. So it came about
that one of the greatest battles of the whole war, one of the most important of the French
victories, the success that made the Marne possible, the rally and stand of the French armies
about Nancy, escaped the fame it earned. Only in legend, in the romance of the Kaiser with
his cavalry waiting on the hills to enter the Lorraine capital, did the battle live.

When I went to France one of the hopes I had cherished was that I might be permitted to visit
this battlefield, to see the ground on which a great battle had been fought, that was still
unknown country, in the main, for those who have written on the war. The Lorraine field was
the field on which France and Germany had planned for a generation to fight. Had the Germans
respected the neutrality of Belgium, it is by Nancy, by the gap between the Vosges and the
hills of the Meuse, that they must have broken into France. The Marne was a battlefield which
was reached by chance and fought over by hazard, but every foot of the Lorraine country had
been studied for the fight long years in advance. Here war followed the natural course, followed
the plans of the general staff prepared years in advance. Indeed, I had treasured over years
a plan of the Battle of Nancy, contained in a French book written years ago, which might serve
as the basis for a history of what happened, as it was written as a prophecy of what was to come.

When the Great General Staff was pleased to grant my request to see the battlefield of Nancy
I was advised to travel by train to that town accompanied by an officer from the General Staff,
and informed that I should there meet an officer of the garrison, who would conduct me to all
points of interest and explain in detail the various phases of the conflict. Thus it fell out,
and I have to thank Commandant Leroux for the courtesy and consideration which made this excursion
successful.

In peace time one goes from Paris to Nancy in five hours, and the distance is about that from
New York to Boston, by Springfield. 

Since they are so young, and haven't yet encountered any truly bad luck, tell us less about serious,
negative events, and tell us more about enjoyable, pleasant events. Don't tell us about it coldly,
instead make the story interesting. Persevere in your writing, do not quit.
 On either side of the railroad
track the graves descend to meet the embankments; you can mark the advance and the retreat
by the crosses which fill the fields. The gardens that touch the railroad and extend to the
rear of houses in the little towns are filled with graves. Each enclosure has been fought for
at the point of the bayonet, and every garden wall recalls the Château of Hougoumont, at Waterloo.

All this was two years ago, but there is to-day, also. East of Bar-le-Duc the main line is
cut by German shell fire now. From Fort Camp des Romains above St. Mihiel German guns sweep
the railroad near Commercy, and one has to turn south by a long detour, as if one went to Boston
by Fitchburg, travel south through the country of Jeanne d'Arc and return by Toul, whose forts
look out upon the invaded land. Thus one comes to Nancy by night, and only by night, for twenty
miles beyond there are Germans and a German cannon, which not so long ago sent a shell into
the town and removed a whole city block beside the railroad station. It is the sight of this
ruin as you enter the town which reminds you that you are at the front, but there are other
reminders.

As we ate our dinner in the café, facing the beautiful Place Stanislas, we were disturbed by
a strange and curious drumming sound. Going out into the square, we saw an aeroplane, or rather
its lights, red and green, like those of a ship. It was the first of several, the night patrol,
rising slowly and steadily, and then sweeping off in a wide curve toward the enemy's line.
They were the sentries of the air which were to guard us while we slept, for men do sentry-go
in the air as well as on the earth about the capital of Lorraine. Then the searchlights on
the hills began to play, sweeping the horizon toward that same mysterious region where beyond
the darkness there is war.

The next morning I woke with the sense of Fourth of July. Bang! Bang! Bang! Such a barking
of cannon crackers I had never heard. Still drowsy, I pushed open the French windows and looked
down on the square. There I beheld a hundred or more men, women, and children, their eyes fixed
on something in the air above and behind the hotel. Still the incessant barking of guns, with
the occasional boom of something more impressive. With difficulty I grasped the fact. I was
in the midst of a Taube raid. Somewhere over my head, invisible to me because of the wall of
my hotel, a German aeroplane was flying, and all the anti-aircraft guns were shooting at it.
Was it carrying bombs? Should I presently see or feel the destruction following the descent
of these?

But the Taube turned away, the guns fired less and less frequently, the people in the streets
drifted away, the children to school, the men to work, the women to wait. It was just a detail
in their lives, as familiar as the incoming steamer to the commuters on the North River ferryboats.
Some portion of war has been the day's history of Nancy for nearly two years now. The children
do not carry gas masks to school with them as they do at Pont-à-Mousson, a dozen miles to the
north, but women and children have been killed by German shells, by bombs, brought by Zeppelins
and by aeroplanes. There is always excitement of sorts in the district of Nancy.

After a breakfast, broken by the return of the aeroplanes we had seen departing the night before
for the patrol, we entered our cars and set out for the front, for the near-front, for the
lines a few miles behind the present trenches, where Nancy was saved but two years ago. Our
route lay north along the valley of the Meurthe, a smiling broad valley, marching north and
south and meeting in a few miles that of the Moselle coming east. It was easy to believe that
one was riding through the valley of the Susquehanna, with spring and peace in the air. Toward
the east a wall of hills shut out the view. This was the shoulder of the Grand Couronné, the
wall against which German violence burst and broke in September, 1914.

Presently we came to a long stretch of road walled in on the river side by brown canvas, exactly
the sort of thing that is used at football games to shut out the non-paying public. But it
had another purpose here. We were within the vision of the Germans, across the river, on the
heights behind the forest, which outlined itself at the skyline; there were the Kaiser's troops
and that forest was the Bois-le-Prêtre, the familiar incident in so many communiqués since
the war began. Thanks to the canvas, it was possible for the French to move troops along this
road without inviting German shells. Yet it was impossible to derive any large feeling of security
from a canvas wall, which alone interposed between you and German heavy artillery.

