"We have very few books," said Fanny, hesitating; "we had not much choice where we were."

"You should have written to me for a selection."

"Why--so we would, but there was always a talk of sending Conrade and Francis home. I am afraid
you will think them very backward, dear Rachel, especially Francie; but it is not their fault,
dear children, and they are not used to strangers," added Fanny, nervously.

"I do not mean to be a stranger," said Rachel.

And while Fanny, in confusion, made loving protestations about not meaning that, Rachel stepped
out upon the lawn, and in her clear voice called "Conrade, Francis!" No answer. She called
"Conrade" again, and louder, then turned round with "where can they be--not gone down on the
beach?"

"Oh, dear no, I trust not," said the mother, flurried, and coming to the window with a call
that seemed to Rachel's ears like the roar of a sucking dove.

But from behind the bushes forth came the two young gentlemen, their black garments considerably
streaked with the green marks of laurel climbing.

"Oh, my dears, what figures you are! Go to Coombe and get yourselves brushed, and wash your
hands, and then come down, and bring your lesson books."

Rachel prognosticated that these preparations would be made the occasion, of much waste of
time; but she was answered, and with rather surprised eyes, that they had never been allowed
to come into the drawing-room without looking like little gentlemen.

"But you are not living in state here," said Rachel; "I never could enter into the cult some
people, mamma especially, pay to their drawing-room."

"The Major used to be very particular about their not coming to sit down untidy," said Fanny.
"He said it was not good for anybody."

Martinet! thought Rachel, nearly ready to advocate the boys making no toilette at any time;
and the present was made to consume so much time that, urged by her, Fanny once more was obliged
to summon her boys and their books.

It was not an extensive school library--a Latin grammar an extremely dilapidated spelling-book,
and the fourth volume of Mrs. Marcet's "Little Willie." The other three--one was unaccounted
for, but Cyril had torn up the second, and Francis had thrown the first overboard in a passion.
Rachel looked in dismay. "I don't know what can be done with these!" she said.

"Oh, then we'll have holidays till we have got books, mamma," said Conrade, putting his hands
on the sofa, and imitating a kicking horse.

"It is very necessary to see what kind of books you ought to have," returned Rachel. "How far
have you gone in this?"

"I say, mamma," reiterated Conrade, "we can't do lessons without books."

"Attend to what your Aunt Rachel says, my dear; she wants to find out what books you should have."

"Yes, let me examine you."

Conrade came most inconveniently close to her; she pushed her chair back; he came after her.
His mother uttered a remonstrating, "My dear!"

"I thought she wanted to examine me," quoth Conrade. "When Dr. M'Vicar examines a thing, he
puts it under a microscope."

It was said gravely, and whether it were malice or simplicity, Rachel was perfectly unable
to divine, but she thought anyway that Fanny had no business to laugh, and explaining the species
of examination that she intended, she went to work. In her younger days she had worked much
at schools, and was really an able and spirited teacher, liking the occupation; and laying
hold of the first book in her way, she requested Conrade to read. He obeyed, but in such a
detestable gabble that she looked up appealingly to Fanny, who suggested, "My dear, you can
read better than that." He read four lines, not badly, but then broke off, "Mamma, are not
we to have ponies? Coombe heard of a pony this morning; it is to be seen at the 'Jolly Mariner,'
and he will take us to look at it."

"The 'Jolly Mariner!' It is a dreadful place, Fanny, you never will let them go there?"

"My dear, the Major will see about your ponies when he comes."

"We will send the coachman down to inquire," added Rachel.

"He is only a civilian, and the Major always chooses our horses," said Conrade.

"And I am to have one too, mamma," added Francis. "You know I have been out four times with
the staff, and the Major said I could ride as well as Con!"

"Reading is what is wanted now, my dear, go on."

Five lines more; but Francis and his mother were whispering together, and of course Conrade
stopped to listen. Rachel saw there was no hope but in getting him alone, and at his mother's
reluctant desire, he followed her to the dining-room; but there he turned dogged and indifferent,
made a sort of feint of doing what he was told, but whether she tried him in arithmetic, Latin,
or dictation, he made such ludicrous blunders as to leave her in perplexity whether they arose
from ignorance or impertinence. His spelling was phonetic to the highest degree, and though
he owned to having done sums, he would not, or did not answer the simplest question in mental
arithmetic. "Five apples and eight apples, come, Conrade, what will they make?"

"A pie."

That was the hopeful way in which the examination proceeded, and when Rachel attempted to say
that his mother would be much displeased, he proceeded to tumble head over heels all round
the room, as if he knew better; which performance broke up the seance, with a resolve on her
part that when she had the books she would not be so beaten. She tried Francis, but he really
did know next to nothing, and whenever he came to a word above five letters long stopped short,
and when told to spell it, said, "Mamma never made him spell;" also muttering something depreciating
about civilians.

Rachel was a woman of perseverance. She went to the bookseller's, and obtained a fair amount
of books, which she ordered to be sent to Lady Temple's. But when she came down the next morning,
the parcel was nowhere to be found. There was a grand interrogation, and at last it turned
out to have been safely deposited in an empty dog-kennel in the back yard. It was very hard
on Rachel that Fanny giggled like a school-girl, and even though ashamed of herself and her
sons, could not find voice to scold them respectably. No wonder, after such encouragement,
that Rachel found her mission no sinecure, and felt at the end of her morning's work much as
if she had been driving pigs to market, though the repetition was imposing on the boys a sort
of sense of fate and obedience, and there was less active resistance, though learning it was
not, only letting teaching be thrown at them. All the rest of the day, except those two hours,
they ran wild about the house, garden, and beach--the latter place under the inspection of
Coombe, whom, since the "Jolly Mariner" proposal, Rachel did not in the least trust; all the
less when she heard that Major Keith, whose soldier-servant he had originally been, thought
very highly of him. A call at Myrtlewood was formidable from the bear-garden sounds, and delicate
as Lady Temple was considered to be, unable to walk or bear fatigue, she never appeared to
be incommoded by the uproar in which she lived, and had even been seen careering about the
nursery, or running about the garden, in a way that Grace and Rachel thought would tire a strong
woman. As to a tete-a-tete with her, it was never secured by anything short of Rachel's strong
will, for the children were always with her, and she went to bed, or at any rate to her own
room, when they did, and she was so perfectly able to play and laugh with them that her cousins
scarcely thought her sufficiently depressed, and comparing her with what their own mother had
been after ten months' widowhood, agreed that after all "she had been very young, and Sir Stephen
very old, and perhaps too much must not be expected of her."

"The grand passion of her life is yet to come," said Rachel.

"I hope not," said Grace.

"You may be certain of that," said Rachel. "Feminine women always have it one time or other
in their lives; only superior ones are exempt. But I hope I may have influence enough to carry
her past it, and prevent her taking any step that might be injurious to the children."

CHAPTER II. RACHEL'S DISCIPLINE

 "Thought is free, as sages tells us--
    Free to rove, and free to soar;
 But affection lives in bondage,
    That enthrals her more and more."
                            JEAN INGELOW.

An old friend lived in the neighbourhood who remembered Fanny's father, and was very anxious
to see her again, though not able to leave the house. So the first day that it was fine enough
for Mrs. Curtis to venture out, she undertook to convey Fanny to call upon her, and was off
with a wonderfully moderate allowance of children, only the two youngest boys outside with
their maid. This drive brought more to light about Fanny's past way of life and feelings than
had ever yet appeared. Rachel had never elicited nearly so much as seemed to have come forth
spontaneously to the aunt, who had never in old times been Fanny's confidante.

Fanny's life had been almost a prolonged childhood. From the moment of her marriage with the
kind old General, he and her mother had conspired to make much of her; all the more that she
was almost constantly disabled by her state of health, and was kept additionally languid and
helpless by the effects of climate. Her mother had managed her household, and she had absolutely
had no care, no duty at all but to be affectionate and grateful, and to be pretty and gracious
at the dinner parties. Even in her mother's short and sudden illness, the one thought of both
the patient and the General had been to spare Fanny, and she had been scarcely made aware of
the danger, and not allowed to witness the suffering. The chivalrous old man who had taken
on himself the charge of her, still regarded the young mother of his children as almost as
much of a baby herself, and devoted himself all the more to sparing her trouble, and preventing
her from feeling more thrown upon her by her mother's death. The notion of training her to
act alone never even occurred to him, and when he was thrown from his horse, and carried into
a wayside-hut to die, his first orders were that no hurried message might be sent to her, lest
she might be startled and injured by the attempt to come to him. All he could do for her was
to leave her in the charge of his military secretary, who had long been as a son to him. Fanny
told her aunt with loving detail all that she had heard from Major Keith of the brave old man's
calm and resigned end--too full of trust even to be distressed with alarms for the helpless
young wife and children, but committing them in full reliance to the care of their Father in
heaven, and to the present kindness of the friend who stood by his pillow.

The will, which not only Rachel but her mother thought strangely unguarded, had been drawn
up in haste, because Sir Stephen's family had outgrown the provisions of a former one, which
had besides designated her mother, and a friend since dead, as guardians. Haste, and the conscious
want of legal knowledge, had led to its being made as simple as possible, and as it was, Sir
Stephen had scarcely had the power to sign it.

