They shook hands friendly enough, but rather formally, and Miss Sherwood turned to the house.
Hunt called to Larry:

"Come here, son."

Larry crossed to the big painter who was standing beside the power-bulged hood of his low-swung
car.

"Happened to drop in where she was--brought her home--aunt following in that hearse with its
five-foot cushions she always rides in," Hunt explained. And then: "Well, I suppose you've
got to give me the once-over. Hurry up, and get it done with."

Larry obeyed. Hunt's wild hair had been smartly barbered, he had on a swagger dust-coat, and
beneath it flannels of the smartest cut. Further, he bore himself as if smart clothes and smart
cars had always been items of his equipment.

"Well, young fellow, spill it," he commanded. "What do I look like?"

"Like Solomon in all his glory. No, more like the he-dressmaker of the Queen of Sheba."

"I'm going to run you up every telephone post we come to for that insult! Hop in, son, and
we'll take a little voyage around the earth in eighty seconds."

Larry got in. Once out of the drive the car leaped away as though intent upon keeping to Hunt's
time-table. But after a mile or two Hunt quieted the roaring monster to a conversational pace.

"Get one of the invitations to my show?" he asked.

"Yes. Several days ago. That dealer certainly got it up in great shape."

"You must have hypnotized Graham. That old paint pirate is giving the engine all the gas she'll
stand--and believe me, he's sure getting up a lot of speed." Hunt grinned. "That private pre-exhibition
show you suggested is proving the best publicity idea Graham ever had in his musty old shop.
Everywhere I go, people are talking about the darned thing. Every man, woman and child, also
unmarried females of both sexes, who got invitations are coming--and those who didn't get 'em
are trying to bribe the traffic cop at Forty-Second Street to let 'em in."

Hunt paused for a chuckle. "And I'm having the time of my young life with the people who always
thought I couldn't paint, and who are now trying to sidle up to me on the suspicion that possibly
after all I can paint. What's got that bunch buffaloed is the fact that Graham has let it leak
out that I'm likely to make bales of money from my painting. The idea of any one making money
out of painting, that's too much for their heads. Oh, this is the life, Larry!"

Larry started to congratulate him, but was instantly interrupted with:

"I admit I'm a painter, and always will admit it. But this present thing is all your doing.
We'll try to square things sometime. But I didn't ask you to come along to hear verbostical
acrobatics about myself. I asked you to learn if you'd worked out your plan yet regarding Maggie?"

"Yes." And Larry proceeded to give the details of his design.

"Regular psychological stuff!" exclaimed Hunt. And then: "Say, you're some stage-manager! Or
rather same playwright! Playwrights that know tell me it's one of their most difficult tricks--to
get all their leading characters on the stage at the same time. And here you've got it all
fixed to bring on Miss Sherwood, Dick, Maggie, yourself, and the all-important me--for don't
forget I shall be slipping out to Cedar Crest occasionally."

"As for myself," remarked Larry, "I shall remain very much behind the scenes. Maggie'll never
see me."

"Well, here's hoping you're good enough playwright to manage your characters so they won't
run away from you and mix up an ending you never dreamed of!"

The car paused again in the drive and Larry got out.

"I say, Larry," Hunt whispered eagerly, "who's that tall, white-haired man working over there
among the roses?"

"Joe Ellison. He's that man I told you about my getting to know in Sing Sing. Remember?"

"Oh, yes! The crook who was having his baby brought up to be a real person. Say, he's a sure-enough
character! Lordy, but I'd love to paint that face!... So-long, son."

The car swung around the drive and roared away. Larry mounted to the piazza. Dick was waiting
for him, and excitedly drew him down to one corner that crimson ramblers had woven into a nook
for confidences.

"Captain, old scout," he said in a low, happy voice, "I've just told sis. Put the whole proposition
up to her, just as you told me. She took it like a regular fellow. Your whole idea was one
hundred per cent right. Sis is inside now getting off that invitation to Miss Cameron, asking
her to come out day after to-morrow."

Larry involuntarily caught the veranda railing. "I hope it works out--for the best," he said.

"Oh, it will--no doubt of it!" cried the exultant Dick. "And, Captain, if it does, it'll be
all your doing!"

CHAPTER XXIII

When Miss Sherwood's invitation reached Maggie, Barney and Old Jimmie were with her. The pair
had growled a lot, though not directly at Maggie, at the seeming lack of progress Maggie had
made during the past week. Barney was a firm enough believer in his rogue's creed of first
getting your fish securely hooked; but, on the other hand, there was the danger, if the hooked
fish be allowed to remain too long in the water, that it would disastrously shake itself free
of the barb and swim away. That was what Barney was afraid had been happening with Dick Sherwood.
Therefore he was thinking of returning to his abandoned scheme of selling stock to Dick. He
might get Dick's money in that way, though of course not so much money, and of course not so
safely.

And another item which for some time had not been pleasing Barney was that Larry Brainard had
not yet been finally taken care of, either by the police or by that unofficial force to which
he had given orders. So he had good reason for permitting himself the relaxation of scowling
when he was not on public exhibition.

But when Maggie, after reading the invitation, tossed it, together with a note from Dick, across
to Barney without comment, the color of his entire world changed for that favorite son of Broadway.
The surly gloom of the end of a profitless enterprise became magically an aurora borealis of
superior hopes:--no, something infinitely more substantial than any heaven-painting flare of
iridescent colors.

"Maggie, it's the real thing! At last!" he cried.

"What is it?" asked Old Jimmie.

Barney gave him the letter. Jimmie read it through, then handed it back, slowly shaking his head.

"I don't see nothing to get excited about," said the ever-doubtful, ever-hesitant Jimmie. "It's
only an invitation."

"Aw, hell!" ejaculated the exasperated Barney in disgust. "If some one handed you a government
bond all you could see would be a cigar coupon! That invitation, together with this note from
Dick Sherwood saying he'll call and take Maggie out, means that the fish is all ready to be
landed. Try to come back to life, Jimmie. If you knew anything at all about big-league society,
you'd know that sending invitations to meet the family--that's the way these swells do things
when they're all set to do business. We're all ready for the killing--the big clean-up!"

He turned to Maggie. "Great stuff, Maggie. I knew you could put it over. Of course you're going?"

"Of course," replied Maggie with a composure which was wholly of her manner.

A sudden doubt came out of this glory to becloud Barney's master mind. "I don't know," he said
slowly. "It's one proposition to make one of these men swells believe that a woman is the real
thing. And it's another proposition to put it over on one of these women swells. They've got
eyes for every little detail, and they know the difference between the genuine article and
an imitation. I've heard a lot about this Miss Sherwood; they say she's one of the cleverest
of the swells. Think you can walk into her house and put it over on her, Maggie?"

"Of course--why not?" answered Maggie, again with that composure which was prompted by her
pride's desire to make Barney, and every one else, believe her equal to any situation.

Barney's animation returned. "All right. If you think you can swing it, you can swing it, and
the job's the same as finished and we're made!"

Left to herself, and the imposing propriety and magnificent stupidity of Miss Grierson, Maggie
made no attempt to keep up her appearance of confidence. All her thoughts were upon this opportunity
which insisted upon looking to her like a menace. She tried to whip her self-confidence, of
which she was so proud, into a condition of constant pregnancy. But the plain fact was that
Maggie, the misguided child of a stolen birthright, whose soaring spirit was striving so hard
to live up to the traditions and conventions of cynicism, whose young ambition it was to outshine
and surpass all possible competitors in this world in which she had been placed, who in her
pride believed she knew so much of life--the plain fact was that Maggie was in a state bordering
on funk.

This invitation from Miss Sherwood was an ordeal she had never counted on. She had watched
the fine ladies at the millinery shop and while selling cigarettes at the Ritzmore, when she
had been modeling her manners, and had believed herself just as fine a lady as they. But that
had been in the abstract. Now she was face to face with a situation that was painfully concrete--a
real test: she had to place herself into close contrast with, and under the close observation
of, a real lady, and in that lady's own home. And in all her life she had not once been in
a fine home! In fine hotels, yes--but fine hotels were the common refuge of butcher, baker,
floor-walker, thief, swell, and each had approximately the same attention; and all she now
felt she had really learned were a few such matters as the use of table silver and finger bowls.

It came to her that Barney, in his moment of doubt, had spoken more soundly than he had imagined
when he had said that it was easier to fool a man about a woman than it was to fool a woman.
How tragically true that was! While trying to learn to be a lady by working in smart shops,
she had learned that the occasional man who had ventured in after woman's gear was hopelessly
ignorant and bought whatever was skillfully thrust upon him, but that it was impossible to
slip an inferior or unsuitable or out-dated article over on the woman who really knew.

And Miss Sherwood was the kind of woman who really knew! Who knew everything. Could she possibly,
possibly pass herself off on Miss Sherwood as the genuine article?...

Could Larry have foreseen the very real misery--for any doubt of her own qualities, any fear
of her ability to carry herself well in any situation, are among the most acute of a proud
woman's miseries--which for some twenty-four hours was brought upon Maggie by the well-meant
intrigue of which he was pulling the hidden strings, he might, because of his love for Maggie,
have discarded his design even while he was creating it, and have sought a measure pregnant
with less distress. But perhaps it was just as well that Larry did not know. Perhaps, even,
it was just as well that he did not know what his grandmother knew.

Maggie's pride would not let her evade the risk; and her instinct for self-preservation dictated
that she should reduce the risk to its minimum. So she wrote her acceptance--Miss Grierson
attended to the phrasing of her note--but expressed her regret that she would be able to come
only for the tea-hour. Drinking tea must be much the same, reasoned Maggie, whether it be drunk
in a smart hotel or in a smart country home.

Maggie's native shrewdness suggested her simplest summer gown as likely to have committed the
fewest errors, and the invaluable stupidity of Miss Grierson aided her toward correctness if
not originality. When Dick came he was delighted with her appearance. On the way out he was
ebulliently excited in his talk. Maggie averaged a fair degree of sensibility in her responses,
though only her ears heard him. She was far more excited than he, and every moment her excitement
mounted, for every moment she was speeding nearer the greatest ordeal of her life.

When at length they curved through the lawns of satin smoothness and Dick slowed down the car
before the long white house, splendid in its simplicity, Maggie's excitement had added unto
it a palpitant, chilling awe. And unto this was added consternation when, as they mounted the
steps, Miss Sherwood smilingly crossed the piazza and welcomed her without waiting for an introduction.
Maggie mumbled some reply; she later could not remember what it was. Indeed she never had met
such a woman: so finished, so gracious, so unaffected, with a sparkle of humor in her brown
eyes; and the rich plainness of her white linen frock made Maggie conscious that her own supposed
simplicity was cheap and ostentatious. If Miss Sherwood had received her with hostility, doubt,
or even chilled civility, the situation would have been easier; the aroused Maggie would then
have made use of her own great endowment of hauteur and self-esteem. But to be received with
this frank cordiality, on a basis of a equality with this finished woman--that left Maggie
for the moment without arms. She had, in her high moments, believed herself an adventuress
whose poise and plans nothing could unbalance. Now she found herself suddenly just a young
girl of eighteen who didn't know what to do.

Had Maggie but known it that sudden unconscious confusion, which seemed to betray her, was
really more effective for her purpose than would have been the best of conscious acting. It
established her at once as an unstagey ingenue--simple, unspoiled, unacquainted with the formulas
and formalities of the world.

Miss Sherwood, in her easy possession of the situation, banished Dick with "Run away for a
while, Dick, and give us two women a chance to get acquainted." She had caught Maggie's embarrassment,
and led her to a corner of the veranda which looked down upon the gardens and the glistering
Sound. She spoke of the impersonal beauties spread before their vision, until she judged that
Maggie's first flutter had abated; then she led the way to wicker chairs beside a table where
obviously tea was to be spread.

Miss Sherwood accepted Maggie for exactly what she seemed to be; and presently she was saying
in a low voice, with her smiling, unoffending directness:

"Excuse the liberty of an older woman, Miss Cameron--but I don't wonder that Dick likes you.
You see, he's told me."

If Maggie had been at loss for her cue before, she had it now. It was unpretentiousness.

"But, Miss Sherwood--I'm so crude," she faltered, acting her best. "Out West I never had any
chances to learn. Not any chances like your Eastern girls."

"That's no difference, my dear. You are a nice, simple girl--that's what counts!"

"Thank you," said Maggie.

"So few of our rich girls of the East know what it is to be simple," continued Miss Sherwood.
"Too many are all affectation, and pose, and forwardness. At twenty they know all there is
to be known, they are blasees--cynical--ready for divorce before they are ready for marriage.
By contrast you are so wholesome, so refreshing."

"Thank you," Maggie again murmured.

And as the two women sat there, sprung from the extremes of life, but for the moment on the
level of equals, and as the older talked on, there grew up in Maggie two violently contradictory
emotions. One was triumph. She had won out here, just as she had said she would win out; and
won out with what Barney had declared to be the most difficult person to get the better of,
a finished woman of the world. Indeed, that was triumph!

The other emotion she did not understand so well. And just then she could not analyze it. It
was an unexpected dismay--a vague but permeating sickness--a dazed sense that she was being
carried by unfamiliar forces toward she knew not what.

She held fast to her sense of triumph. That was the more apprehendable and positive; triumph
was what she had set forth to win. This sense of triumph was at its highest, and she was resting
in its elating security, when a car stopped before the house and a large man got out and started
up the steps. From the first moment there was something familiar to Maggie in his carriage,
but not till Miss Sherwood, who had risen and crossed toward him, greeted him as "Mr. Hunt,"
did Maggie recognize the well-dressed visitor as the shabby, boisterous painter whom she had
last seen down at the Duchess's.

Panic seized upon her. Miss Sherwood was leading him toward where she sat and his first clear
sight of her would mean the end. There was no possible escape; she could only await her fate.
And when she was denounced as a fraud, and her glittering victory was gone, she could only
take herself away with as much of the defiance of admitted defeat as she could assume--and
that wouldn't be much.

She gazed up at Hunt, whitely, awaiting extermination. Miss Sherwood's voice came to her from
an infinite distance, introducing them. Hunt bowed, with a formally polite smile, and said
formally, "I'm very glad to meet you, Miss Cameron."

Not till he and Miss Sherwood were seated and chatting did Maggie realize the fullness of the
astounding fact that he had not recognized her. This was far more upsetting to her than would
have been recognition and exposure; she had been all braced for that, but not for what had
actually happened. She was certain he must have known her; nothing had really changed about
her except her dress, and only a few weeks had passed since he had been seeing her daily down
at the Duchess's, and since she had been his model, and he had studied every line and expression
of her face with those sharp painter's eyes of his.

And so as the two chatted, she putting in a stumbling phrase when they turned to her, Maggie
Carlisle, Maggie Cameron, Maggie Ellison, that gallant and all-confident adventuress who till
the present had never admitted herself seriously disturbed by a problem, sat limply in her
chair, a very young girl, indeed, and wondered how this thing could possibly be.

CHAPTER XXIV

Presently Miss Sherwood said something about tea, excused herself, and disappeared within the
house. Maggie saw that Hunt watched Miss Sherwood till she was safely within doors; then she
was aware that he was gazing steadily at her; then she saw him execute a slow, solemn wink.

Maggie almost sprang from her chair.

"Shall we take a little stroll, Miss Cameron?" Hunt asked. "I think it will be some time before
Miss Sherwood will want us for tea."

"Yes--thank you," Maggie stammered.

Hunt led her down a walk of white gravel to where a circle of Hiawatha roses were trained into
a graceful mosque, now daintily glorious with its solid covering of yellow-hearted red blooms.
Within this retreat was a rustic bench, and on this Hunt seated her and took a place beside
her. He looked her over with the cool, direct, studious eyes which reminded her of his gaze
when he had been painting her.

"Well, Maggie," he finally commented, "you certainly look the part you picked out for yourself,
and you seem to be putting it over. Always had an idea you could handle something big if you
went after it. How d'you like the life, being a swell lady crook?"

She had hardly heard his banter. She needed to ask him no questions about his presence here;
his ease of bearing had conveyed to her unconsciously from the first instant that her previous
half-contemptuous estimate of him had been altogether wrong and that he was now in his natural
element. Her first question went straight to the cause of her amazement.

"Didn't you recognize me when you first saw me with Miss Sherwood?"

"Yes."

"Weren't you surprised?"

"Nope," he answered with deliberate monosyllabioness.

"Why not?"

"I'd been wised up that I'd be likely to meet you--and here."

"Here! By whom?"

"By advice of counsel I must decline to answer."

"Why didn't you tell Miss Sherwood who I am and show me up?"

"Because I'd been requested not to tell."

"Requested by whom?"

"Maggie," he drawled, "you seem to be making a go of this lady crook business--but I think
you might have been even more of a shining light as a criminal cross-examiner. However, I refuse
to be cross-examined further. By the way," he drawled on, "how goes it with those dear souls,
Barney and Old Jimmie?"

She ignored his question.

"Please! Who asked you not to tell?"

There was a sudden glint of good-humored malice in his eyes. "Mind if I smoke?"

"No."

He drew out a silver cigarette case and opened it. "Empty!" he exclaimed. "Excuse me while
I get something from the house to smoke. I'll be right back."

Without waiting for her permission he stepped out of the arbor and she heard his footsteps
crunching up the gravel path. Maggie waited his return in pulsing suspense. Her situation had
been developing beyond anything she had ever dreamed of; she was aquiver as to what might happen
next. So absorbed was she in her chaos of feeling and thoughts that she did not even hear the
humble symphony of the hundreds of bees drawing their treasure from the golden hearts of the
roses; and did not see, across the path a score of yards away, the tall figure of Joe Ellison
among the rosebushes, pruning-shears in hand, with which he had been cutting out dead blossoms,
gazing at her with that hungry, admiring, speculative look with which he had regarded the young
women upon the beach.

Presently she heard Hunt's footsteps coming down the path. Then she detected a second pair.
Dick accompanying him, she thought. And then Hunt appeared before her, and was saying in his
big voice: "Miss Cameron, permit me to present my friend, Mr. Brandon." And then he added in
a lowered voice, grinning with the impish delight of an overgrown boy who is playing a trick:
"Thought I'd better go through the motions of introducing you people, so it would look as if
you'd just met for the first time." And with that he was gone.

Maggie had risen galvanically. For the moment she could only stare. Then she got out his name.

"Larry!" she whispered. "You here?"

"Yes."

Astounded as she was, she had caught instantly the total lack of amazement on Larry's part.

"You're--you're not surprised to see me?"

"No," he said evenly. "I knew you were here. And before that I knew you were coming."

That was almost too much for Maggie. Hunt had known and Larry had known; both were people belonging
to her old life, both the last people she expected to meet in such circumstances. She could
only stare at him--entirely taken aback by this meeting.

And indeed it was a strangely different meeting from the last time she had seen him, at the
Grantham; strangely different from those earlier meetings down at the Duchess's when both had
been grubs as yet unmetamorphosized. Now standing in the arbor they looked a pair of weekend
guests, in keeping with the place. For, as Maggie had noted, Larry in his well-cut flannels
was as greatly transformed as Hunt.

It was Larry who ended the silence. "Shall we sit down?"

She mechanically sank to the bench, still staring at him.

"What are you doing here?" she managed to breathe.

"I belong here."

"Belong here?"

"I work here," he explained. "I'm called 'Mr. Brandon,' but Miss Sherwood knows exactly who
I am and what I've been."

"How long have you been here?"

"Since that night when Barney and Old Jimmie took you away to begin your new career--the same
night that I ran away from those gunmen who thought I was a squealer, and from Casey and Gavegan."

"And all the while that Barney and my father and the police have thought you hiding some place
in the West, you've been with the Sherwoods?"

"Yes. And I've got to remain in hiding until something happens that will clear me. If the police
or Barney and his friends learn where I am--you can guess what will happen."

She nodded.

"Hunt got me here," he went on to explain. "I'm assisting in trying to get the Sherwood business
affairs in better shape. I might as well tell you, Maggie," he added quietly, "that Dick Sherwood
is my very good friend."

"Dick Sherwood!" she breathed.

"And I might as well tell you," he went on, "that since that night at the Grantham when I heard
his voice, I've known that Dick is the sucker you and Barney and Old Jimmie are trying to trim."

She half rose, and her voice sounded sharply: "Then you've got me caught in a trap! You've
told them about me?"

"No."

"Why not?"

"Not so loud, or we may attract attention," he warned her. "I haven't told because you had
your chance to give me away to Barney that night at the Grantham. And you didn't give me away."

She sank slowly back to the bench. "Is that your only reason?"

"No," he answered truthfully. "Exposing you would merely mean that you'd feel harder toward
me--and harder toward every one else. I don't want that."

She pondered this a moment. "Then--you're not going to tell?"

He shook his head. "I don't expect to. I want you to be free to decide what you're going to
do--though I hope you'll decide not to go through with this thing you're doing."

She made no response. Larry had spoken with control until now, but his next words burst from him.

"Don't you see what a situation it's put me in, Maggie--trying to play square with my friends,
the Sherwoods, and trying to play square with you?"

Again she did not answer.

"Maggie, you're too good for what you're doing--it's all a terrible mistake!" he cried passionately.
Then he remembered himself, and spoke with more composure. "Oh, I know there's not much use
in talking to you now--while you feel as you do about yourself--and while you feel as you do
about me. But you know I love you, and want to marry you--when--" He halted.

"When?" she prompted, almost involuntarily.

"When you see things differently--and when I can go around the world a free man, not a fugitive
from Barney and his gunmen and the police."

Again Maggie was silent for a moment. It was as if she were trying to press out of her mind
what he had said about loving her. Truly this was, indeed, different from their previous meetings.
Before, there had almost invariably been a defiant attitude, a dispute, a quarrel. Now she
had no desire to quarrel.

Finally she said with an effort to be that self-controlled person which she had established
as her model:

"You seem to have your chance here to put over what you boasted to me about. You remember making
good in a straight way."

"Yes. And I shall make good--if only they will let me alone." He paused an instant. "But I
have no illusions about the present," he went on quietly. "I'm in quiet water for a time; I've
got a period of safety; and I'm using this chance to put in some hard work. But presently the
police and Barney and the others will learn where I am. Then I'll have all that fight over
again--only the next time it'll be harder."

She was startled into a show of interest. "You think that's really going to happen?"

"It's bound to. There's no escaping it. If for no other reason, I myself won't be able to stand
being penned up indefinitely. Something will happen, I don't know what, which will pull me
out into the open world--and then for me the deluge!"

He made this prediction grimly. He was not a fatalist, but it had been borne in upon him recently
that this thing was inescapable. As for him, when that time came, he was going to put up the
best fight that was in him.

He caught the strained look which had come into Maggie's face, and it prompted him suddenly
to lean toward her and say:

"Maggie, do you still think I'm a stool and a squealer?"

"I--"

She broke off. She had a surging impulse to go on and say something to Larry. A great deal.
She was not conscious of what that great deal was. She was conscious only of the impulse. There
was too great a turmoil within her, begotten by the strain of her visit on Miss Sherwood and
these unexpected meetings, for any motive, impulse, or decision to emerge to even a brief supremacy.
And so, during this period when her brain would not operate, she let herself be swept on by
the momentum of the forces which had previously determined her direction--her pride, her self-confidence,
her ambition, the alliance of fortune between her and Barney and Old Jimmie.

They were sitting in this silence when footsteps again sounded on the gravel, and a shadow
blotted the arbor floor.

"Excuse me, Larry," said a man's voice.

"Sure. What is it, Joe?"

Before her Maggie saw the tall, thin man in overalls, his removed broad-brimmed hat revealing
his white hair, whom she had noticed a little earlier working among the flowers. He held a
bunch of the choicest pickings from the abundant rose gardens, their stems bound in maple leaves
as temporary protection against their thorns. He was gazing at Maggie, respectful, hungry admiration
in his somber eyes.

"I thought perhaps the young lady might care for these." He held out the roses to her. And
then quickly, to forestall refusal: "I cut out more than we can use for the house. And I'd
like to have you have them."

"Thank you," and Maggie took the flowers.

For an instant their eyes held. In every outward circumstance the event was a commonplace--this
meeting of father and daughter, not knowing each other. It was hardly more than a commonplace
to Maggie: just a tall, white-haired gardener respectfully offering her roses. And it was hardly
more to Joe Ellison: just a tribute evoked by his hungry interest in every well-seeming girl
of the approximate age of his daughter.

At the moment's end Joe Ellison had bowed and started back for his flower beds. "Who is that
man?" asked Maggie, gazing after him. "I never saw such eyes."

"We used to be pals in Sing Sing," Larry replied. He went on to give briefly some of the details
of Joe Ellison's story, never dreaming how he and Maggie were entangled in that story, nor
how they were to be involved in its untanglement. Perhaps they were fortunate in this ignorance.
Within the boundaries of what they did know life already held enough of problems and complications.

Larry had just finished his condensed history when Dick Sherwood appeared and ordered them
to the veranda for tea. There were just the five of them, Miss Sherwood, Maggie, Hunt, Dick,
and Larry. Miss Sherwood was as gracious as before, and she seemingly took Maggie's strained
manner and occasional confusions as further proof of her genuineness. Dick beamed at the impression
she was making upon his sister.

As for Maggie, she was living through the climax of that afternoon's strain. And she dared
not show it. She forced herself to do her best acting, sipping her tea with a steady hand.
And what made her situation harder was that two of the party, Larry and Hunt, were treating
her with the charmed deference they might accord a charming stranger, when a word from either
of them might destroy the fragile edifice of her deception.

At last it was over, and all was ready for her to start back to town with Dick. When Miss Sherwood
kissed her and warmly begged her to come again soon, the very last of her control seemed to
be slipping from her--but she held on. Larry and Hunt she managed to say goodbye to in the
manner of her new acquaintanceship.

"Isn't she simply splendid!" exclaimed Miss Sherwood when Dick had stepped into the car and
the two had started away.

Larry pretended not to have heard. He felt precariously guilty toward this woman who had befriended
him. The next instant he had forgotten Miss Sherwood and his pulsing thoughts were all on Maggie
in that speeding car. She had been profoundly shaken by that afternoon's experience, this much
he knew. But what was going to be the real effect upon her of his carefully thought-out design?
Was it going to be such as to save her and Dick?--and eventually win her for himself?

In the presence of Miss Sherwood Larry tried to behave as if nothing had happened more than
the pleasant interruption of an informal tea: but beneath that calm all his senses were waiting
breathless, so to speak, for news of what had happened within Maggie, and what might be happening
to her.

CHAPTER XXV

When Maggie sped away from Cedar Crest in the low seat of the roadster beside the happy Dick,
she felt herself more of a criminal than at any time in her life, and a criminal that miraculously
was making her escape out of an inescapable set of circumstances.

Beyond her relief at this escape she did not know these first few minutes what she thought
or felt. Too much had happened, and what had happened had all turned out so differently from
what she had expected, for her to set in orderly array this chaos of reactions within herself
and read the meaning of that afternoon's visit. She managed, with a great effort, to keep under
control the outer extremities of her senses, and thus respond with the correct "yes" or "no"
or "indeed" when some response from her was required by Dick's happy conversation.

Near Roslyn they swung off the turnpike into an unfrequented, shady road. Dick steered to one
side beneath a locust-tree and silenced the motor.

"Why are you stopping?" she asked in sudden alarm.

"So we can talk without a piece of impertinent machinery roaring interruptions at us," replied
Dick with forced lightness. And then in a voice he could not make light: "I want to talk to
you about--about my sister. Isn't she splendid?"

"She is!" There was no wavering of her thoughts as Maggie emphatically said this.

"I'm mighty glad you like her. She certainly liked you. She's all the family I've got, and
since you two hit it off so well together I hope--I hope, Maggie--"

And then Dick plunged into it, stammeringly, but earnestly. He told her how much he loved her,
in old phrases that his boyish ardor made vibrantly new. He loved her! And if she would marry
him, her influence would make him take the brace all his friends had urged upon him. She'd
make him a man! And she could see how pleased it would make his sister. And he would do his
best to make Maggie happy--his very best!

The young super-adventuress--she herself had mentally used the word "adventuress" in thinking
of herself, as being more genteel and mentally aristocratic than the cruder words by which
Barney and Old Jimmie and their kind designated a woman accomplice--this young super-adventuress,
who had schemed all this so adroitly, and worked toward it with the best of her brain and her
conscious charm, was seized with new panic as she listened to the eager torrent of his imploring
words, as she gazed into the quivering earnestness of his frank, blue-eyed face. She wished
she could get out of the machine and run away or sink through the floor-boards of the car.
For she really liked Dick.

"I'm--I'm not so good as you think," she whispered. And then some unsuspected force within
her impelled her to say: "Dick, if you knew the truth--"

He caught her shoulders. "I know all the truth about you I want to know! You're wonderful,
and I love you! Will you marry me? Answer that. That's all I want to know!"

He had checked the confession that impulsively had surged toward her lips. Silent, her eyes
wide, her breath coming sharply, she sat gazing at him.... And then from out the portion of
her brain where were stored her purposes, and the momentum of her pride and determination,
there flashed the realization that she had won! The thing that Barney and Old Jimmie had prepared
and she had so skillfully worked toward, was at last achieved! She had only to say "yes," and
either of those two plans which Barney had outlined could at once be put in operation--and
there could be no doubt of the swift success of either. Dick's eager, trusting face was guarantee
that there would come no obstruction from him.

She felt that in some strange way she had been caught in a trap. Yes, what they had worked
for, they had won! And yet, in this moment of winning, as elements of her vast dizziness, Maggie
felt sick and ashamed--felt a frenzied desire to run away from the whole affair. For Maggie,
cynical, all-confident, and eighteen, was proving really a very poor adventuress.

"Please, Maggie"--his imploring voice broke in upon her--"won't you answer me? You like me,
don't you?--you'll marry me, won't you?"

"I like you, Dick," she choked out--and it was some slight comfort to her to be telling this
much of the truth--"but--but I can't marry you."

"Maggie!" It was a cry of surprised pain, and the pain in his voice shot acutely into her.
"From the way you acted toward me--I thought--I hoped--" He sharply halted the accusation which
had risen to his lips. "I'm not going to take that answer as final, Maggie," he said doggedly.
"I'm going to give you more time to think it over--more time for me to try. Then I'll ask you
again."

That which prompted Maggie's response was a mixture of impulses: the desire, and this offered
opportunity, to escape; and a faint reassertion of the momentum of her purpose. For with one
such as Maggie, the set purposes may be seemingly overwhelmed, but death comes hard.

"All right," she breathed rapidly. "Only please get me back as quickly as you can. I'm to have
dinner with my--my cousin, and I'll be very late."

Dick drove her into the city in almost unbroken silence and left her at the great doors of
the Grantham, abustle with a dozen lackeys in purple livery. She stood a moment and watched
him drive away. He really was a nice boy--Dick.

As she shot up the elevator, she thought of a hitherto forgotten element of that afternoon's
bewildering situation. Barney Palmer! And Barney was, she knew, now up in her sitting-room,
impatiently waiting for her report of what he had good reason to believe would prove a successful
experience. If she told the truth--that Dick had proposed, just as they had planned for him
to do--and she had refused him--why, Barney--!

She seemed caught on every side!

Maggie got into her suite by way of her bedroom. She wanted time to gather her wits for meeting
Barney. When Miss Grierson told her that her cousin was still waiting to take her to dinner,
she requested her companion to inform Barney that she would be in as soon as she had dressed.
She wasted all the time she legitimately could in changing into a dinner-gown, and when at
length she stepped into her sitting-room she was to Barney's eye the same cool Maggie as always.

Barney rose as she entered. He was in smart dinner jacket; these days Barney was wearing the
smartest of everything that money could secure. There was a shadow of impatience on his face,
but it was instantly dissipated by Maggie's self-composed, direct-eyed beauty.

"How'd you come out with Miss Sherwood?" he whispered eagerly.

"Well enough for her to kiss me good-bye, and beg me to come again."

"I've got to hand it to you, Maggie! You're sure some swell actress--you've sure got class!"
His dark eyes gleamed on her with half a dozen pleasures: admiration of what she was in herself--admiration
of what she had just achieved--anticipation of results, many results--anticipation of what
she was later to mean to him in a personal way. "If you can put it over on a swell like Miss
Sherwood, you can put it over on any one!" He exulted. "As soon as we clean up this job in
hand, we'll move on to one big thing after another!"

And then out came the question Maggie had been bracing herself for: "How about Dick Sherwood?
Did he finally come across with that proposal?"

"No," Maggie answered steadily.

"No? Why not?" exclaimed Barney sharply. "I thought that was all that was holding him back--waiting
for his sister to look you over and give you her O.K.?"

Maggie had decided that her air of cool, indifferent certainty was the best manner to use in
this situation with Barney. So she shrugged her white shoulders.

"How can I tell what makes a man do something, and what makes him not do it?"

"But did he seem any less interested in you than before?" Barney pursued.

"No," replied Maggie.

"Then maybe he's just waiting to get up his nerve. He'll ask you, all right; nothing there
for us to worry about. Come on, let's have dinner. I'm starved."

On the roof of the Grantham they were excellently served; for Barney knew how to order a dinner,
and he knew the art, which is an alchemistic mixture of suave diplomacy and the insinuated
power and purpose of murder, of handling head-waiters and their sub-autocrats. Having no other
business in hand, Barney devoted himself to that business which ran like a core through all
his businesses--paying court to Maggie. And when Barney wished to be a courtier, there were
few of his class who could give a better superficial interpretation of the role; and in this
particular instance he was at the advantage of being in earnest. He forced the most expensive
tidbits announced by the dinner card upon Maggie; he gallantly and very gracefully put on and
removed, as required by circumstances, the green cobweb of a scarf Maggie had brought to the
roof as protection against the elements; and when he took the dancing-floor with her, he swung
her about and hopped up and down and stepped in and out with all the skill of a master of the
modern perversion of dancing. Barney was really good enough to have been a professional dancer
had his desires not led him toward what seemed to him a more exciting and more profitable career.

Maggie, not to rouse Barney's suspicions, played her role as well as he did his own. And most
of the other diners, a fraction of the changing two or three hundred thousand people from the
South and West who choose New York as the best of all summer resorts, gazed upon this handsome
couple with their intricate steps which were timed with such effortless and enviable accuracy,
and excitedly believed that they were beholding two distinguished specimens of what their home
papers persisted in calling New York's Four Hundred.

Maggie got back to her room with the feeling that she had staved off Barney and her numerous
other dilemmas for the immediate present. Her chief thought in the many events of the day had
been only to escape her dangers and difficulties for the moment; all the time she had known
that her real thinking, her real decisions, were for a later time when she was not so driven
by the press of unexpected circumstances. That less stressful time was now beginning.

What was she to do next? What were to be her final decisions? And what, in all this strange
ferment, was likely to germinate as possible forces against her?

She mulled these things over for several days, during which Dick came to see her twice, and
twice proposed, and was twice put off. She had quiet now, and was most of the time alone, but
that clarity which she had expected, that quickness and surety of purpose which she had always
believed to be unfailingly hers, refused to come.

She tried to have it otherwise, but the outstanding figure in her meditations was Larry. Larry,
who had not exposed her at the Sherwoods', and whose influence had caused Hunt also not to
expose her--Larry, who without deception was on a familiar footing at the Sherwoods' where
she had been received only through trickery--Larry, a fugitive in danger from so many enemies,
perhaps after all undeserved enemies--Larry, who looked to be making good on his boast to achieve
success through honesty--Larry, who had again told her that he loved her. She liked Dick Sherwood--she
really did. But Larry--that was something different.

And thus she thought on, drawn this way and that, and unable to reach a decision. But with
most people, when in a state of acute mental turmoil, that which has been most definite in
the past, instinct, habit of mind, purpose, tradition, becomes at least temporarily the dominant
factor through the mere circumstance that it has existed powerfully before, through its comparative
stability, through its semi-permanence. And so with Maggie. She had for that one afternoon
almost been won over against herself by the workings of Larry's secret diplomacy. Then had
come the natural reaction. And now in her turmoil, in so far as she had any decision, it was
instinctively to go right ahead in the direction in which she had been going.

But on the sixth day of her uncertainty, just after Dick had called on her and she had provisionally
accepted an invitation to Cedar Crest for the following afternoon, a danger which she had half
seen from the start burst upon her without a moment's warning. It came into her sitting-room,
just before her dinner hour, in the dual form of Barney and Old Jimmie. The faces of both were
lowering.

"Get rid of that boob chaperon of yours!" gritted Barney. "We're going to have some real talk!"

Maggie stepped to the connecting door, sent Miss Grierson on an inconsequential errand, and
returned.

"You're looking as pleasant as if you were sitting for a new photograph, Barney. What gives
you that sweet expression?"

"You'll cut out your comic-supplement stuff in just one second," Barney warned her. "We both
saw young Sherwood awhile ago as he was leaving the Grantham, and he told us everything!"

Persiflage did indeed fail Maggie. "Everything?" she exclaimed. "What's everything?"

"He told us about proposing to you almost a week ago, and about your refusing him. And you
lied to us--kept us sitting round, wasting our time--and all the while you've been double-crossing
us!"

Those visitors from South and West, especially the women, who a few nights before on the roof
had regarded Barney as the perfect courtier, would not have so esteemed him if they had seen
him at the present moment. He seized Maggie's wrists, and all the evil of his violent nature
glared from his small bright eyes.

"Damn you!" he cried. "Jimmie, she's yours, and a father's got a right to do anything he likes
to his own daughter. Give it to her proper if she don't come across with the truth!"

Jimmie stepped closer to her and bared his yellow teeth. "I haven't given you a basting since
you were fifteen--but I'll paste you one right in the mouth if you don't talk straight talk!"

"You hear that!" Barney gritted at her. He believed there was justice in his wrath--as indeed
there was, of a sort. "Think what Jimmie and I've put into this, in time and hard coin! We've
given you your chance, we've made you! And then, after hard work and waiting and our spending
so much, and everything comes out exactly as we figured, you go and throw us down--not just
yourself, but us and our rights! Now you talk straight stuff! Tell us, why did you refuse Sherwood
when he proposed? And why did you tell me that lie about his not proposing?"

Maggie realized she was in a desperate plight, with these two inflamed gazes upon her. Never
had she felt so little of a daughter's liking for Old Jimmie as now when she looked into his
lean, harsh, yellow-fanged face. And she had no illusions about Barney. He might love her,
as she knew he did; but that would not be a check upon his ruthlessness if he thought himself
balked or betrayed.

Just then her telephone began to ring. She started to move toward it, but Barney's grip checked
her short.

"You're going to answer me--not any damned telephone! Let it ring!"

The bell rang for a minute or two before it stilled its shrill clamor. Its ringing was in a
way a brief respite to Maggie, for it gave her additional time to consider what should be her
course. She realized that she dared not let Barney believe at this moment that she had turned
against him. Again she fell back upon her cool, self-confident manner.

"You want to know why? The answer is simple enough. I thought I might try out an improvement
of our plan--something that might suit me better."

"What's that?" Barney harshly demanded.

"Since Miss Sherwood fell for me so easy, it struck me that she'd be pretty sure to fall for
me if I told her the whole truth about myself. That is, everything except our scheme to play
Dick for a sucker."

"What're you driving at?"

"Don't you see? If she forgave me being what I am, and I rather think she would, and with Dick
liking me as he does--why, it struck me as the best thing for yours truly to marry Dick for keeps."

"What?" Though Barney's voice was low, it had the effect of a startled and savage roar. "And
chuck us over-board?"

"Not at all. If I married Dick for keeps, I intended to pay you a lump sum, or else a regular
amount each year."

"No, you don't!" Barney cried in the same muffled roar.

"Perhaps not--I haven't decided," Maggie said evenly. "I've merely been telling you, as you
requested me, why I did as I did. I refused Dick, and lied to you, so that I might have more
time to think over what I really wanted to do."

Instinctively she had counted on rousing Barney's jealousy in order to throw him off the track
of her real thoughts. She succeeded.

"I can tell you what you're going to do!" Barney flung at her with fierce mastery. "You're
not going to put over a sure-enough marriage with any Dick Sherwood! When there's that kind
of a marriage, I'm going to be the man! And you're going to go right straight ahead with our
old plan! Dick'll propose again if you give him half a chance. And when he does, you say 'yes'!
Understand? That's what you're going to do!"

There was no safety in openly defying Barney. And as a matter of fact what he had ordered was
what, in the shifting currents of her thoughts, the steady momentum of her old ambitions and
purposes had been pushing her toward. So she said, in her even voice:

"You waste such a lot of your good energy, Barney, by exploding when there's nothing to blow
up. That's exactly what I'd decided to do. Miss Sherwood has asked me out to Cedar Crest to-morrow
afternoon, and I'm going."

Barney let go the hold he had kept upon her wrists, and the dark look slowly lifted from his
face. "Why didn't you tell a fellow this at first?" he half grumbled. Then with a grim enthusiasm:
"And when you come back, you're going to tell us it's all settled!"

"Of course--if he asks me. And now suppose you two go away. You've given me a headache, and
I want to rest."

"We'll go," said Barney. "But there may be some more points about this that we may want to
talk over a little later to-night. So better get all the rest you can."

But when they had gone and left her to the silence of her pretentious and characterless suite,
Maggie did not rest. She had made up her mind; she was going to do as she had said. But there
was still that same turmoil within her.

Again she thought of Larry. But she would not admit to herself that her real motive for suddenly
deciding to go to Cedar Crest on the morrow was the chance of seeing him.

CHAPTER XXVI

During all these days Larry waited for news of the result of the experiment in psychology which
meant so much to his life. He had not expected to hear directly from Maggie; but he had counted
upon learning at once from Dick, if not by words, then either from eloquent dejection which
would proclaim Dick's refusal (and Larry's success) or from an ebullient joy which would proclaim
that Maggie had accepted him. But Dick's sober but not unhappy behavior announced neither of
these two to Larry; and the matter was too personal, altogether too delicate, to permit Larry
to ask Dick the result, however subtly he might ask it.

So Larry could only wait--and wonder. The truth did not occur to Larry; he did not see that
there might be another alternative to the two possible reactions he had calculated upon. He
did not bear in mind that Maggie's youthful obstinacy, her belief in herself and her ways,
were too solid a structure to yield at once to one moral shock, however wisely planned and
however strong. He did not at this time hold in mind that any real change in so decided a character
as Maggie, if change there was to be, would be preceded and accompanied by a turbulent period
in which she would hardly know who she was, or where she was, or what she was going to do--and
that at the end of such a period there might be no change at all.

Inasmuch as just then Maggie was his major interest, it seemed to Larry in his safe seclusion
that he was merely marking time, and marking time with feet that were frantically impatient.
He felt he could not stand much longer his own inactivity and his ignorance of what Maggie
was doing and what was happening to her. He could not remain in this sanctuary pulling strings,
and very long and fragile strings, and strings which might be the mistaken ones, for any much
greater period. He felt that he simply had to walk out of this splendid safety, back into the
dangers from which he had fled, where he might at least have the possible advantage of being
in the very midst of Maggie's affairs and fight for her more openly and have a more direct
influence upon her.

He knew that, sooner or later, he was going to throw caution aside and appear suddenly among
his enemies, unless something of a definite character developed. But for these slow, irritating
days he held himself in check with difficulty, hoping that things might come to him, that he
would not have to go forth to them.

He had brought Hunt's portrait of Maggie to Cedar Crest in the bottom of his trunk, and kept
it locked in his chiffonier. During these days, more frequently than before, he would take
out the portrait and in the security of his locked room would gaze long at that keen-visioned
portrayal of her many characters. No doubt of it: there was a possible splendid woman there!
And no doubt of it: he loved that woman utterly!

During these days of his ignorance, while Maggie was struggling in the darkness of her unexplored
being, Larry drove himself grimly at the business to which under happier circumstances he would
have gone under the irresistible suasion of pure joy. One afternoon he presented to Miss Sherwood
an outline for his growing plan for the development of the Sherwood properties on the basis
of good homes at fair rentals. He discovered that, in spite of her generous giving, she had
much the same attitude toward Charity as his own: that the only sound Charity, except for those
temporarily or permanently handicapped or disabled, was the giving of honest values for honest
returns--and that was not Charity at all.

The project of reforming the shiftless character of the Sherwood properties, and of relieving
even in a small degree New York's housing congestion, appealed at once to her imagination and
her sensible idealism.

"A splendid plan!" she exclaimed, regarding Larry with those wise, humorous eyes of hers, which
were now very serious and penetrating. "You have been working much harder than I had thought.
And if you will pardon my saying it, you have more of the soundly humane vision which big business
enterprise should have than I had thought."

"Thank you!" said Larry.

"That's a splendid dream," she continued; "but it will take hard work to translate that dream
into a reality. We shall need architects, builders, a heavy initial expense, time--and a more
modern and alert management."

"Yes, Miss Sherwood."

She did not speak for a moment. Her penetrating eyes, which had been fixed on him in close
thought, were yet more penetrating. Finally she said:

"That's a big thing, a useful thing. The present agents wish to be relieved of our affairs
as soon as I can make arrangements--and I'd like nothing better than for Dick to drop what
he's doing and get into something constructive and useful like this. But Dick cannot do it
alone; he's too unsettled, and too inexperienced to cope with some of the sharper business
practices."

She paused again, still regarding him with those keen eyes, which seemed to be weighing him.
Finally she said, almost abruptly:

"Will you take charge of this with Dick? He likes you and respects your judgment; I'm sure
you'd help steady him down. Of course you lack practical experience, but you can take in a
practical man who will supply this element. Practical experience is one of the commonest articles
on the market; vision and initiative are among the rarest--and you have them. What do you say?"

Larry could not say anything at once. The suddenness of her offer, the largeness of his opportunity,
bewildered him for the moment. And his bewilderment was added to by his swift realization of
quite another element involved in her frank proposition. He was now engaged in the enterprise
of foisting a bogus article, Maggie, upon this woman who was offering him her complete confidence--an
enterprise of most questionable ethics and very dubious issue. If he accepted her offer, and
the result of this enterprise were disaster, what would Miss Sherwood then think of him?

He took refuge in evasion. "I'm not going to try to tell you how much I appreciate your proposition,
Miss Sherwood. But do you mind if I hold back my answer for the present and think it over?
Anyhow, to do all that is required I must be able to work in the open--and I can't do that
until I get free of my entanglements with the police and my old acquaintances."

Thus it was agreed upon. Miss Sherwood turned to another subject. The pre-public show of Hunt's
pictures had opened the previous day.

"When you were in the city yesterday, did you get in to see Mr. Hunt's exhibition?"

"No," he answered. "Although I wanted to. But you know I've already seen all of Mr. Hunt's
pictures that Mr. Graham has in his gallery. How was the opening?"

"Crowded with guests. And since they had been told that the pictures were unusual and good,
of course the people were enthusiastic."

"What kind of prices was Mr. Graham quoting?"

"He wasn't quoting any. He told me he wasn't going to sell a picture, or even mention a price,
until the public exhibition. He's very enthusiastic. He thinks Mr. Hunt is already made--and
in a big way."

And then she added, her level gaze very steady on Larry:

"Of course Mr. Hunt is really a great painter. But he needed a jolt to make him go out and
really paint his own kind of stuff. And he needed some one like you to put him across in a
business way."

When she left, she left Larry thinking: thinking of her saying that Hunt "needed a jolt to
make him go out and really paint his own kind of stuff." Hidden behind that remark somewhere
could there be the explanation for the break between these two? Larry began to see a glimmer
of light. It was entirely possible that Miss Sherwood, in so finished and adroit a manner that
Hunt had not discerned her purpose, had herself given him this jolt or at least contributed
to its force. It might all have been diplomacy on her part, applied shrewdly to the man she
understood and loved. Yes, that might be the explanation. Yes, perhaps she had been doing in
a less trying way just what he was seeking to do under more stressful circumstances with Maggie:
to arouse him to his best by indirectly working at definite psychological reactions.

That afternoon Hunt appeared at Cedar Crest, and while there dropped in on Larry. The big painter,
in his full-blooded, boyish fashion, fairly gasconaded over the success of his exhibit. Larry
smiled at the other's exuberant enthusiasm. Hunt was one man who could boast without ever being
offensively egotistical, for Hunt, added to his other gifts, had the divine gift of being able
to laugh at himself.

Larry saw here an opportunity to forward that other ambition of his: the bringing of Hunt and
Miss Sherwood together. And at this instant it flashed upon him that Miss Sherwood's seemingly
casual remarks about Hunt had not been casual at all. Perhaps they had been carefully thought
out and spoken with a definite purpose. Perhaps Miss Sherwood had been very subtly appointing
him her ambassador. She was clever enough for that.

"Stop declaiming those self-written press notices of your unapproachable superiority," Larry
interrupted. "If you use your breath up like that you'll drown on dry land. Besides, I just
heard something better than this mere articulated air of yours. Better because from a person
in her senses."

"Heard it from whom?"

"Miss Sherwood."

"Miss Sherwood! What did she say?"

"That you were a really great painter."

"Huh!" snorted Hunt. "Why shouldn't she say that? I've proved it!"

"Hunt," said Larry evenly, "you are the greatest painter I ever met, but you also have the
distinction of being the greatest of all damned fools."

"What's that, young fellow?"

"You love Miss Sherwood, don't you? At least you've the same as told me that in words, and
you've told me that in loud-voiced actions every time you've seen her."

"Well--what if I do?"

"If you had the clearness of vision that is in the glassy eye of a cold boiled lobster you
would see that she feels the same way about you."

"See here, Larry"--all the boisterous quality had gone from Hunt's voice, and it was low-pitched
and a bit unsteady--"I don't mind your joshing me about myself or my painting, but don't fool
with me about anything that's really important."

"I'm not fooling you. I'm sure Miss Sherwood feels that way."

"How do you know?"

"I've got a pair of eyes that don't belong to a cold boiled lobster. And when I see a thing,
I know I see it."

"You're all wrong, Larry. If you'd heard what she said to me less than a year ago--"

"You make me tired!" interrupted Larry. "You two were made for each other. She's waiting for
you to step up and talk man's talk to her--and instead you sulk in your tent and mumble about
something you think she might have thought or said a year ago! You're too sensitive; you're
too proud; you've got too few brains. It's a million dollars to one that in your handsome,
well-bred way you've fallen out with her over something that probably never existed and certainly
doesn't exist now. Forget it all, and walk right up and ask her!"

"Larry, if I thought there was a chance that you are right--"

"A single question will prove whether I'm right!"

Hunt did not speak for a moment. "I guess I've never seen my part of it all in the way you
put it, Larry." He stood up, his whole being subdued yet tense. "I'm going to slide back into
town and think it all over."

Larry followed him an hour later, bent on routine business of the Sherwood estate. Toward seven
o'clock he was studying the present decrepitude and future possibilities of a row of Sherwood
apartment houses on the West Side, when, as he came out of one building and started into another,
a firm hand fell upon his shoulder and a voice remarked:

"So, Larry, you're in New York?"

Larry whirled about. For the moment he felt all the life go out of him. Beside him stood Detective
Casey, whom he had last seen on the night of his wild flight when Casey had feigned a knockout
in order to aid Larry's escape from Gavegan. Any other man affiliated with his enemies Larry
would have struck down and tried to break away from. But not Casey.

"Hello, Casey. Well, I suppose you're going to invite me to go along with you?"

"Where were you going?"

"Into this house."

"Then I'll invite myself to go along with you."

He quickly pushed Larry before him into the hallway, which was empty since all the tenants
were at their dinner. Larry remembered the scene down in Deputy Police Commissioner Barlow's
office, when the Chief of Detectives had demanded that he become a stool-pigeon working under
Gavegan and Casey, and the grilling and the threats, more than fulfilled, which had followed.

"Going to give me a little private quiz first, Casey," he asked, "and then call in Gavegan
and lead me down to Barlow?"

"Not unless Gavegan or some one else saw and recognized you, which I know they didn't since
I was watching for that very thing. And not unless you yourself feel hungry for a visit to
Headquarters."

"If I feel hungry, it's an appetite I'm willing to make wait."

"You know I don't want to pinch you. My part in this has been a dirty job that was just pushed
my way. You know that I know you've been framed and double-crossed, and that I won't run you
in unless I can't get out of it."

"Thanks, Casey. You're too white to have to run with people like Barlow and Gavegan. But if
it wasn't to pinch me, why did you stop me out there in the street?"

"Been hoping I might some day run into you on the quiet. There are some things I've learned--never
mind how--that I wanted to slip you for your own good."

"Go to it, Casey."

"First, I've got a hunch that it was Barney Palmer who tipped off the police about Red Hannigan
and Jack Rosenfeldt, and then spread it among all the crooks that you were the stool and squealer."

"Yes, I'd guessed that much."

"Second, I've got a hunch that it really was from Barney Palmer that Barlow got his idea of
making you become a stool-pigeon. Barney is a smooth one all right, and he figured what would
happen. He knew you would refuse, and he knew Barlow would uncork hell beneath you. Barney
certainly called every turn."

"What--what--" stammered Larry. "Why, then Barney must be--" He paused, utterly astounded by
the newness of the possibility that had just risen in his mind.

"You've got it, Larry," Casey went on. "Barney is a police stool. Has been one for years. Works
directly for Barlow. We're not supposed to know anything about it. He's turned up a lot of
big ones. That's why it's safe for Barney to pull off anything he likes."

"Barney a police stool!" Larry repeated in the stupor of his amazement.

"Guess that's all the news I wanted to hand you, Larry, so I'll be on my way. Here's wishing
you luck--and for God's sake, don't let yourself be pinched by us. So-long." And with that
Casey slipped out of the hallway.

For a moment Larry stood moveless where Casey had left him. Then fierce purpose, and a cautious
recklessness, surged up and took mastery of him. It had required what Casey had told him to
end his irksome waiting and wavering. No longer could he remain in his hiding-place, safe himself,
trying to save Maggie by slow, indirect endeavor. The time had now come for very different
methods. The time had come to step forth into the open, taking, of course, no unnecessary risk,
and to have it out face to face with his enemies, who were also Maggie's real enemies, though
she counted them her friends--to save Maggie against her own will, if he could save her in
no other way.

And having so decided, Larry walked quickly out of the hallway into the street.

CHAPTER XXVII

On the sidewalk Larry glanced swiftly around him. Half a block down the street on the front
of a drug-store was a blue telephone flag. A minute later he was inside a telephone booth in
the drug-store, asking first for the Hotel Grantham, and then asking the Grantham operator
to be connected with Miss Maggie Cameron.

There was a long wait. While he listened for Maggie's voice he blazed with terrible fury against
Barney Paler. For Maggie to be connected with a straight crook, that idea had been bad enough.
But for her to be under the influence of the worst crook of all, a stool, a cunning traitor
to his own friends--that was more than could possibly be stood! In his rage in Maggie's behalf
he forgot for the moment the many evils Barney had done to himself. He thought of wild, incoherent,
vaguely tremendous plans. First he would get Maggie away from Barney and Old Jimmie--somehow.
Then he would square accounts with those two--again by an undefined somehow.

Presently the tired, impersonal voice of the Grantham operator remarked against his ear-drum:
"Miss Cameron don't answer."

"Have her paged, please," he requested.

Larry, of course, could not know that his telephone call was the very one which had rung in
Maggie's room while Barney and Old Jimmie were with her, and which Barney had harshly forbidden
her to answer. Therefore he could not know that any attempt to get Maggie by telephone just
then was futile.

When he came out of the booth, the impersonal voice having informed him that Miss Cameron was
not in, it was with the intention of calling Maggie up between eight and nine when she probably
would have returned from dinner where he judged her now to be. He knew that Dick Sherwood had
no engagement with her, for Dick was to be out at Cedar Crest that evening, so he judged it
almost certain Maggie would be at home and alone later on.

Having nothing else to do for an hour and a half, he thought of a note he had received from
the Duchess in that morning's mail asking him to come down to see her when he was next in town.
Thirty minutes later he was in the familiar room behind the pawnshop. The Duchess asked him
if he had eaten, and on his reply that he had not and did not care to, instead of proceeding
to the business of her letter she mumbled something and went into the pawnshop.

She left Larry for the very simple reason that now that she had him here she was uncertain
what she should say, and how far she should go. Unknown to either, one thread of the drama
of Larry and Maggie was being spun in the brain and heart of the Duchess; and being spun with
pain to her, and in very great doubt. True, she had definitely decided, for Larry's welfare,
that the facts about Maggie's parentage should never be known from her--and since the only
other person who could tell the truth was Jimmie Carlisle, and his interests were all apparently
in favor of silence, then it followed that the truth would never be known from any one. But
having so decided, and decided definitely and finally, the Duchess had proceeded to wonder
if she had decided wisely.

Day and night this had been the main subject of her thought. Could she be wrong in her estimate
of Maggie's character, and what she might turn out to be? Could she be wrong in her belief
that, given enough time, Larry would outgrow his infatuation for Maggie? And since she was
in such doubt about these two points, had she any right, and was it for the best, to suppress
a fact that might so gravely influence both matters? She did not know. What she wanted was
whatever was best for Larry--and so in her doubt she had determined to talk again to Larry,
hoping that the interview might in some way replace her uncertainty with stability of purpose.

Presently she returned to the inner room, and in her direct way and using the fewest possible
words, which had created for her her reputation of a woman who never spoke and who was packed
with strange secrets, she asked Larry what he had done concerning Maggie. He told her of the
plan he had evolved, of Maggie's visit to Cedar Crest, of his ignorance of Maggie's reactions.
To all this his grandmother made response neither by word nor by change of expression. He then
went on to tell her of what he had just learned from Casey of Barney's maneuvering his misfortunes.

The old head nodded. "Yes, Barney's just that sort," she said in her flat monotone.

And then she came to the purpose of her sending for him. "How do you feel about Maggie now?"

"The same as before."

"You love her?"

"Yes--and always will," he said firmly.

She was silent once more. Then, "What are you going to do next?"

"Break things up between her and Barney and her father. Get her away from them."

She asked no further questions. Larry was as settled as a man could be. But was Maggie worth
while?--that was the great question still unanswered.

"Just what did you want me for, grandmother?" he asked her finally.

"Something which I thought might have developed, but which hasn't."

And so she let him go away without telling him. And wishing to shape things for the best for
him, she was troubled by the same doubts as before.

His visit with his grandmother had had no meaning to Larry, since he had no guess of the struggle
going on within that ancient, inscrutable figure. The visit had for him merely served to fill
in a nervous, useless hour. His rage against Barney had all the while possessed him too thoroughly
for him to give more than the mere surface of his mind to what had passed between his grandmother
and himself. And when he had left her, his rage at Barney's treachery and his impetuous desire
to snatch Maggie away from her present influences, so stormed within him that his usually cautious
judgment was blown away and recklessness swept like a gale into control of him.

When he called up the Grantham a second time, at nine o'clock, Maggie's voice came to him:

"Hello. Who this, please?"

"Mr. Brandon."

He heard a stilted "Oh!" at the other end of the line "I'm coming right up to see you," he said.

"I--I don't think you--"

"I'll be there in then minutes," Larry interrupted the startled voice and hung up.

He counted that Maggie, after his sparing her at Cedar Crest, would receive him and treat him
at least no worse than an enemy with whom there was a half hour's truce. Sure enough, when
he rang the bell of her suite, Maggie herself admitted him to her sitting-room. She was taut
and pale, her look neither friendly nor unfriendly.

"Don't you know the risk you're running," she whispered when the door was closed--"coming here
like this, in the open?"

"The time has come for risks, Maggie," he announced.

"But you were safe enough where you were. Why take such risks?"

"For your sake."

"My sake?"

"To take you away from these people you're tied up with. Take you away now."

At an earlier time this would have been a fuse to a detonation of defiance from her. But now
she said nothing at all, and that was something.

"Since I've come out into the open, everything's going to be in the open. Listen, Maggie!"
The impulse had suddenly come upon him, since his plan to awaken Maggie by her psychological
reactions had apparently failed, to tell her everything. "Listen, Maggie! I'm going to lay
all my cards on the table, and show you every card I've played. You were invited to come out
to Cedar Crest because I schemed to have you come. And the reason I schemed to have you invited
was, I reasoned that being received in such a frank, generous, unsuspecting way, by a woman
like Miss Sherwood, would make you sick of what you were doing and you would drop it of your
own accord. But it seems I reasoned wrong."

"So--you were behind that!" she breathed.

"I was. Though I couldn't have done it if Dick Sherwood hadn't been honestly infatuated with
you. But now I'm through with working under cover, through with indirect methods. From now
on every play's in the open, and it's straight to the point with everything. So get ready.
I'm going to take you away from Barney and Old Jimmie."

The mention of these two names had a swift and magical effect upon her. But instead of arousing
belligerency, they aroused an almost frantic agitation.

"You must leave at once, Larry. Barney and my father were here before dinner, and they've just
telephoned they were coming back!"

"Coming back! That's the best argument you could make for my staying!"

"But, Larry--they both have keys, and Barney always carries a gun!"

"I stay here, unless you leave with me. Listen to some more, Maggie. I laid all the cards on
the table. Do you know the kind of people you're tied up with? I'll not say anything about
your father, for I guess you know all there is to know. But Barney Palmer! He's the lowest
kind of crook that breathes. There's been a lot of talk about squealers and police stools.
Well, the big squealer, the big stool, is Barney Palmer!"

"I don't believe it!" she cried involuntarily.

"It's true! I've got it straight. Barney wanted to smash me, because I'd made up my mind to
quit the old game and because he wanted to get me out of his way with you. So he framed it
up so that I appeared to be a squealer, and started the gangmen after me. And he put Barlow
up to the idea of forcing me to be a stool, and then framing me when I refused. It was Barney
who fixed things so I had to go to jail, or be shot up, or run away. It was Barney Palmer who
squealed on Red Hannigan and Jack Rosenfeldt, and who's been squealing on his other pals. And
that's the sort you're stringing along with!"

She gazed at him in appalled half conviction. He remained silent to let his truth sink in.

They were standing so, face to face, when a key grated in the outer door of the little hallway
as on the occasion of Larry's first visit here. And as on that occasion, Maggie sprang swiftly
forward and shot home the bolt of the inner door. Then she turned and caught Larry's arm.

"It's Barney--I told you he was coming!" she whispered. "Oh, why didn't you go before? Come on!"

She tried to drag him toward her bedroom door, through which she had once helped him escape.
But this time he was not to be moved.

"I stay right here," he said to her.

There was the sound of a futile effort to turn the lock of the inner door; then Barney's voice
called out: "What's the matter, Maggie? Open the door."

Maggie, still clutching Larry's resisting arm, stood gasping in wide-eyed consternation.

"Open the door for them, Maggie," Larry whispered.

"I'll not do it!" she whispered back.

"Open it, or I will," he ordered.

Their gazes held a moment longer while Barney rattled at the lock. Then slowly, falteringly,
her amazed eyes over her shoulder upon him, Maggie crossed and unlocked the door. Barney entered,
Old Jimmie just bend him.

"I say, Maggie, what was the big idea in keeping us--" he was beginning in a grumbling tone,
when he saw Larry just beyond her. His complaint broke off in mid-breath; he stopped short
and his dark face twitched with his surprise.

"Larry Brainard!" he finally exclaimed. Old Jimmie, suddenly tense, blinked and said nothing.

"Hello, Barney; hello, Jimmie," Larry greeted his former allies, putting on an air of geniality.
"Been a long time since we three met. Don't stand there in the door. Come right in."

Barney was keen enough to see, though Larry's attitude was careless and his tone light, that
his eyes were bright and hard. Barney moved forward a couple of paces, alert for anything,
and Old Jimmie followed. Maggie looked on at the three men, her girlish figure taut and hardly
breathing.

"Didn't know you were in New York," said Barney.

"Well, here I am all right," returned Larry with his menacing cheerfulness.

By now Barney had recovered from his first surprise. He felt it time to assert his supremacy.

"How do you come to be here with Maggie?" he demanded abruptly.

"Happened to catch sight of her on the street to-day. Trailed her here to the Grantham, and
to-night I just dropped in."

Barney's tone grew more authoritative, more ugly. "We told you long ago we were through with
you. So why did you come here?"

"That's easy answered, Barney. The last time we were all together, you'd come to take Maggie
away. This is that same scene reproduced--only this time I've come to take Maggie away."

"What's that?" snapped Barney.

Larry's voice threw off its assumed geniality, and became drivingly hard. "And to get Maggie
to come, I've been telling her the kind of a bird you are, Barney Palmer! Oh, I've got the
straight dope on you! I've been telling her how you framed me, and were able to frame me because
you are Chief Barlow's stool."

Barney went as near white as it was possible for him to become, and his mouth sagged. "What--what--"
he stammered.

"I've been telling her that you are the one who really squealed on Red Hannigan and Jack Rosenfeldt."

"You're a damned liar!" Barney burst out, and instantly from beneath his left arm he whipped
an automatic which he thrust against Larry's stomach. "Take that back, damn you, or I'll blow
you straight to hell!"

"Barney!--Larry!" interjected Maggie in sickened fright.

"This is nothing to worry over, Maggie," Larry said. He looked back at Barney. "Oh, I knew
you would flash a gun on me at some stage of the game. But you're not going to shoot."

"You'll see, if you don't take that back!"

Larry realized that his hot blood had driven him into an enterprise of daring, in which only
bluff and the playing of his highest cards could help him through.

"You don't think I was such a fool as to walk into this place without taking precautions,"
he said contemptuously. "You won't shoot, Barney, because since I knew I might meet you and
you'd pull a gun, I had myself searched by two friends just before I came up here. They'll
testify I was not armed. They know you, and know you so well that they'll be able to identify
the thing in your hand as your gun. So no matter what Maggie and Jimmie may testify, the verdict
will be cold-blooded murder and the electric chair will be your finish. And that's why I know
you won't shoot. So you might as well put the gun away."

Barney neither spoke nor moved.

"I've called your bluff, Barney," Larry said sharply. "Put that gun away, or I'll take it from
you!"

Barney's glare wavered. The pistol sank from its position. With a lightning-swift motion Larry
wrenched it from Barney's hand.

"Guess I'd better have it, after all," he said, slipping it into a pocket. "Keep you out of
temptation."

And then in a subdued voice that was steely with menace: "I'm too busy to attend to you now,
Barney--but, by God, I'm going to square things with you for the dirt you've done me, and I'm
going to show you up for a stool and a squealer!" He wheeled on Old Jimmie. "And the only reason
I'll be easy with you, Jimmie Carlisle, is because you are Maggie's father--though you're the
rottenest thing as a father God ever let breathe!"

Old Jimmie shrank slightly before Larry's glower, and his little eyes gleamed with the fear
of a rat that is cornered. But he said nothing.

Larry turned his back upon the two men. "We're through with this bunch, Maggie. Put on a hat
and a wrap, and let's go. We can send for your things."

"No you don't, Maggie," snarled Barney, before Maggie could speak.

Old Jimmie made his first positive motion since entering the room. He shifted quickly to Maggie's
side and seized her arm.

"You're my daughter, and you stay with me!" he ordered. "I brought you up, and you do exactly
what I tell you to! You're not going with Larry--he's lying about Barney. You stay with me!"

"Come on, let's go, Maggie," repeated Larry.

"You stay with me!" repeated Jimmie.

Thus ordered and appealed to, Maggie was areel with contradicting thoughts and impulses while
the three men awaited her action. In fact she had no clear thought at all. She never knew later
what determined her course at this bewildered moment: perhaps it was partly a continuance of
her doubt of Larry, perhaps partly once more sheer momentum, perhaps her instinctive feeling
that her place was with the man she believed to be her father.

"Yes, I'll stay with you," she said to Old Jimmie.

"That's the signal for you to be on your way, Larry Brainard!" Barney snapped at him triumphantly.

Larry realized, all of a sudden, that his coming here was no more than a splendid gesture to
which his anger had excited him. Indeed there was nothing for him but to be on his way.

"I've told you the truth, Maggie; and you'll be sorry that you have not left--if not sorry
soon, then sorry a little later."

He turned to Barney with a last shot; he could not leave the gloating Barney Palmer his unalloyed
triumph. "I told you I had the straight dope on you, Barney. Here's some more of it. I know
exactly what your game is, and I know exactly who your sucker is. We'll see if you put it over--you
squealer! Good-night, all."

With that Larry walked out. Old Jimmie regarded his partner with suspicion.

"How about that, Barney--you being a stool and a squealer?" he demanded.

"I tell you it's all a lie--a damned lie!" cried Barney with feverish emphasis.

"I hope it is!" breathed Old Jimmie.

This was a subject Barney wanted to get away from. "Maggie," he demanded, "is what Larry Brainard
said about how he came here the truth?--his seeing you on the street and then following you here?"

"How do I know where he first saw me?"

"But is to-night the first time you've seen him?"

"It is."

"Sure you haven't been seeing him?" demanded Barney's quick jealousy.

"I have not."

"Did he tell you where he came from?--where he hangs out?"

"No."

Old Jimmie interrupted this cross-examination.

"You're wasting good time asking these questions. Barney, do you realize the cold fact that
it's not a good thing for you, nor for us, for Larry Brainard to be back in New York, floating
around as he pleases?"

"I should say not!" Barney saw he was facing a sudden crisis, and in the need for quick action
he spoke without thought of Maggie. "We've got to look after him at once!"

"Tell the bunch he's back, and let them take care of him?" suggested Old Jimmie.

Barney considered rapidly. If Larry knew of his arrangement with the police, then perhaps his
secret was beginning to leak through to others. He decided that for the present it would be
wiser to keep from these old friends and allies.

"Not the bunch--the police!" he said inspiredly. "They're after him, anyhow, and are sore.
All we've got to do is slip them word--they'll do the rest!" And then with the sharper emphasis
of an immediate plan: "We don't want to lose a minute. I know where Gavegan hangs out at this
time of night. Come on!"

With a bare "Good-night" to Maggie the two men hurried forth on their pressing mission. Left
to herself, Maggie sank into a chair and wildly considered the many elements of this new situation.
Presently two thoughts emerged to dominance: Whether Larry was right or wrong, he had risked
coming out of his safety for her sake--perhaps had risked all he had won for her sake. And
now the police were to be set after him, with that Gavegan heading the pack.

Perhaps the further thinking Maggie did did not result in cool, mature wisdom--for her thoughts
were the operations of a panicky mind. Somehow she had to get warning to Larry of this imminent
police hunt! Without doubt Larry would return to Cedar Crest sometime that night. Word should
be sent to him there. A letter was too uncertain in such a crisis. Of course she had an invitation
to go to Cedar Crest the following afternoon, and she might warn him then--but that might be
too late. She dared not telephone or telegraph--for that might somehow direct dangerous attention
to the exact spot where Larry was hidden. Also she had an instinct, operating unconsciously
long before she had any thought of what she was eventually to do, not to let Barney or Old
Jimmie find out, or even guess, that she had warned Larry--not yet.

There seemed nothing that she herself could do. Then she thought of the Duchess. That was the
way out! The Duchess would know some way in which to get Larry word.

Five minutes later, in her plainest suit and hat, Maggie in a taxicab was rolling down toward
the Duchess's--from where, only a few months back, she had started forth upon her great career.

CHAPTER XXVIII

Old Jimmie did not like meeting the police any oftener than a meeting was forced upon him,
and so he slipped away and allowed Barney Palmer to undertake alone the business of settling
Larry. Barney found Gavegan exactly where he had counted: lingering over his late dinner in
the cafe of a famous Broadway restaurant--a favorite with some of the detectives and higher
officials of the Police Department--in which cafe, in happier days now deeply mourned, Gavegan
had had all the exhilaration he wanted to drink at the standing invitation of the proprietor,
and where even yet on occasion a bit of the old exhilaration was brought to Gavegan's table
in a cup or served him in a room above to which he had had whispered instructions to retire.
The proprietor had in the old days liked to stand well with the police; and though his bar
was now devoted to legal drinks--or at least obliging Federal officers reported it to be--he
still liked to stand well with the police.

Gavegan was at a table with a minor producer of musical shows, to whom Barney had been of occasional
service in securing the predominant essential of such music--namely, shapely young women. Barney
nodded to Gavegan, chatted for a few minutes with his musical-comedy friend, during which he
gave Gavegan a signal, then crossed to the once-crowded bar, now sunk to isolation and the
lowly estate of soft drinks, and ordered a ginger ale. Not until then did he notice Barlow,
chief of the Detective Bureau, at a corner table. Barney gave no sign of recognition, and Barlow,
after a casual glance at him, returned to his food.

Barney, in solitude at one end of the bar, slowly sipped with a sort of indignation against
his kickless purchase. Presently Gavegan was beside him, having most convincing ill-luck in
his attempts to light his cigar from a box of splintering safety matches which stood at that
end of the bar.

"Well, what is it?" Gavegan whispered out of that corner of his mouth which was not occupied
by his cigar. He did not look at Barney.

"Any clue to Larry Brainard yet?" Barney whispered also out of a corner of his mouth, glass
at his lips. Like-wise he seemed not to notice the man beside him.

"Naw! Still out West somewhere. Them Chicago bums couldn't catch a crook if he walked along
State Street with a sign-board on him!"

"Saw Larry Brainard to-night."

Gavegan had difficulty in maintaining his attitude of non-awareness of his bar-mate.

"Where?"

"Right here in New York."

"What! Where'd you see him?"

"Coming out of the Grantham."

"When?"

"Fifteen minutes ago."

"Know where he went to?--where he hangs out?--know anything else?"

"That's everything. Thought I'd better slip it to you as quick as I could."

"This time that bird'll not get away!" growled Gavegan, still in a whisper. "Twenty-four hours
and he'll be in the cooler!"

Finally Gavegan managed to get a flame from one of those irritatingly splintery Swedish matches
made in Japan. Cigar alight he walked over to Barlow's table. He conversed with his Chief a
moment or two, then went out. After a minute Barney saw Chief Barlow crossing toward the bar.
Barney seemed not to notice this movement. Barlow likewise paused beside him to light a cigar;
and from the side of the Chief's mouth there issued: "Room 613."

Barlow passed on. Presently Barney finished the dreary drudgery of drink and sauntered out.
Five minutes later, having exercised the proper caution, he was in Room 613, and the door was
locked.

"What's this dope you just handed Gavegan about Larry Brainard?" demanded Barlow.

Barney gave his information, again, but this time more fully. Of course he omitted all mention
of Maggie and the enterprise which Larry had sought to interrupt; it was part of the tacit
understanding between these two that Barlow should have no knowledge of Barney's professional
doings, unless such knowledge should be forced upon him by events or people too strong to be
ignored.

"Did Brainard drop any clue that might give us a lead as to where he's hiding out?"

Barney remembered something Larry had said half an hour before, which he had considered mere
boasting. "He said he knew I had some game on, and he said he knew who the sucker was I was
planning to trim."

"Did he say who the sucker was?"

"No."

"If Larry Brainard really did know, then who would he be having in mind?"

Barney hesitated; but he perceived that this was a question which had to be answered. "Young
Dick Sherwood, of the swell Sherwood family--you know."

Barlow did not pursue the subject. According to his arrangement with Barney, the latter's private
activities were none of his business.

"I'll get busy with the drag-net; we'll land Brainard this time," said Barlow. And then with
a grim look at Barney: "But Larry Brainard's not what I got you up here to talk about, Palmer.
I wanted to talk about two words to you--and say 'em to you right between your eyes."

"Go ahead, Chief."

"First, you ain't been worth a damn to me for several months. You've given me no value received
for me keeping my men off of you. You haven't turned up a single thing."

"Come, now, Chief--you're forgetting about Red Hannigan and Jack Rosenfeldt."

"Chicken feed! They're out on bail, and when their cases come up, they'll beat them! Besides,
you didn't give me that tip to help me; you gave it to me so that you could fix things to put
Larry Brainard in bad with all his old friends. You did that to help yourself. Shut up! Don't
try to deny it. I know!"

Barney did not attempt denial. Barlow went on:

"And the second thing I want to tell you, and tell you hard, is this: You gotta turn in some
business! The easy way you've been going makes it look like you've forgot I've got hold of
you where the hair's long. Young man, you'd better remember that I've got you cold for that
Gregory stock business--you and Old Jimmie Carlisle. Got all the papers in a safety-deposit
vault, and got three witnesses doing stretches in Sing Sing. Keep on telling yourself all that!
and keep on telling yourself that, if you don't come across, some day soon I'll suddenly discover
that you're the guilty party in that Gregory affair, and I'll bring down those witnesses I've
got cached in Sing Sing."

Barney moved uneasily in his chair. He knew the bargain he had made, and did not like to dwell
upon the conditions under which he was a licensed adventurer.

"No need to rag me like this, Chief," he protested. "Sure I remember all you've said. And you're
not going to have cause to be sore much longer. There'll be plenty doing."

"See that there is! And see that you don't pull any raw work. And see that you don't let your
foot slip. For if you do, you know what'll happen to you. Now get out!"

Barney got out, again protesting that he would not be found failing. He was not greatly disturbed
by what Barlow had said. Every so often there had to be just such sessions, and every so often
Barlow had to let off just such steam.

Barney's errand was done. The police of the city were on Larry's trail and his share in the
matter was and would remain unknown. Thus far all was well. He had no doubt of Larry's early
capture, now that he was back in New York, and now that the whole police force had been promptly
warned and were hotly after him, and now that all avenues of exit would instantly be, in fact
by this time were, under surveillance and closed against him--and now that every refuge of
the criminal world was only a trap for him. No, there wasn't a doubt of Larry's early capture.
There couldn't be. And once Larry was locked up, things would be much better. Barlow would
see that Larry didn't talk undesirable things, or at least that such talk was not heard. It
wasn't exactly pleasant or safe having Larry at large, free to blurt out to the wrong persons
those things about Barney's being a stool and a squealer.

Greatly comforted, though eager for news of the chase, Barney started on his evening's routine
of visiting the gayer restaurants. Business is business, and a man suffers when he neglects
it. True, this was a neat proposition which he had in hand; but that would soon be cleaned
up, and Businessman Barney desired to be all ready to move forward into further enterprises.

In the meanwhile there had been a session between Maggie and the Duchess. At about the time
Barney had whispered his unlipped news to Gavegan, Maggie, breathless with her frantic haste
though she had made the journey in a taxicab, entered the familiar room behind the pawnshop.

"Good-evening, Maggie." The voice was casual, indifferent, though at that moment there was
no person that the Duchess, pondering her problems, more wished to see. "Sit down. What's the
matter?"

"The police know Larry is in New York and are after him!"

"How do you know?"

Rapidly Maggie told of the happenings in her sitting-room, and of Barney and Old Jimmie starting
out to warn Gavegan. The Duchess heard every word, but most of her faculties were concentrated
upon a reexamination of Maggie and upon those questions which had been troubling her all evening
and for these many days. Was there good in Maggie? Was she justified in longer suppressing
the truth of Maggie's parentage?

"Why are you telling me all this?" the Duchess asked, when Maggie had finished her rapid recital.

"Why! Isn't it plain? I want you to get warning to Larry that the police are after him!"

"Why not do it yourself?"

"I'm going out where he is to-morrow, but that may be too late."

Maggie gave her other reasons, such as they were. The old woman's eyes never left Maggie's
flushed face, and yet never showed any interest.

"I thought you were tied up with Barney and Old Jimmie," the Duchess commented. "Why are you
going against them in this, and trying to help Larry?"

"What's the difference why I'm doing it," Maggie cried with feverish impatience, "so long as
I'm trying to help him out of this!"

"Don't you realize," continued the calm old voice, "that Larry must already know, as a matter
of course, that the police and all the old crowd are after him?"

"Perhaps he does, and perhaps he doesn't. All the same, he should know for certain! The big
point is, will you get Larry word?"

A moment passed and the Duchess did not speak. In fact this time she had not heard Maggie,
so intent was she in trying to look through Maggie's dark, eager eyes to the very core of Maggie's
being.

"Will you get Larry word?" Maggie repeated impatiently.

The Duchess came out of her study. There was a sudden thrill within her, but it did not show
in her voice.

"Yes."

"At once?"

"As soon as telling him will do any good. And now you better hurry back to your hotel, if you
don't want Barney and Old Jimmie to suspect what you've been up to. Though why you still want
to hang on to that pair, knowing what they are, is more than I can guess."

She stood up. "Wait a minute," she said as Maggie started for the door. Maggie turned back,
and for another moment the Duchess silently peered deep into Maggie's eyes. Then she said shortly,
almost sharply: "At your age I was twice as pretty as you are--and twice as clever--and I played
much the same game. Look what I got out of life!... Good-night." And abruptly the Duchess wheeled
about and mounted the stairway.

Twenty minutes later Maggie was back at the Grantham, her absence unobserved. Though palpitant
over Larry's fate, she had the satisfaction of having achieved with Larry's grandmother what
she had set forth to achieve. She did not know, could not know, that what she had accepted
as her achievement was inconsequential compared to what had actually been achieved by her spontaneous
appearance before the troubled Duchess.

CHAPTER XXIX

As the Duchess had gazed into Maggie's excited, imploring eyes, it had been borne in upon her
carefully judging and painfully hesitant mind that there was better than a fifty per cent chance
that Larry was right in his estimate of Maggie; that Maggie's inclination toward criminal adventure,
her supreme self-confidence, all her bravado, were but the superficial though strong tendencies
developed by her unfortunate environment; that within that cynical, worldly shell there were
the vital and plastic makings of a real woman.

And so the long-troubled Duchess, who to her acquaintances had always seemed as unemotional
as the dust-coated, moth-eaten parrot which stood in mummified aloofness upon her safe, had
made a momentous decision that had sent through her old veins the thrilling sap of a great
crisis, a great suspense. She had tried to guide destiny. She was now through with such endeavor.
She had no right, because of her love for Larry, to withhold longer the facts of Maggie's parentage.
She was now going to tell the truth, and let events work out as they would.

But the events--what were they going to be?

For a moment the Duchess had been impelled to tell the truth straight out to Maggie. But she
had caught herself in time. This whole affair was Larry's affair, and the truth belonged to
him to be used as he saw fit. So when she had told Maggie that she would get word to Larry,
it was this truth which she had had in mind, and only in a very minor way the news which Maggie
had brought.

This was, of course, such a truth as could be safely communicated only by word of mouth. The
Duchess realized that Larry no longer dared come to her, and that therefore she must manage
somehow to get to him. And get to him without betraying his whereabouts.

There was little chance that the police would search her place or greatly bother her. To the
police mind, now that Larry was aware he was known to be in New York, the pawnshop would obviously
be the last place in which he would seek refuge or through which he would have dealings. Nevertheless,
the Duchess deemed it wise to lose no moment and to neglect no possible caution. Therefore,
while Barney was still with Chief Barlow and before the general order regarding Larry had more
than reached the various police stations, the Duchess, in cape, hat, and veil, was out of her
house. A block up the street lived the owner of two or three taxicabs, concerning whom the
Duchess, who was almost omniscient in her own world, knew much that the said owner ardently
desired should be known no further. A few sentences with this gentleman, and fifteen minutes
later, huddled back in the darkened corner of a taxicab, she rolled over the Queensboro Bridge
out upon Long Island on her mission of releasing a fact whose effect she could not foresee.

An hour and a half after that Larry was leading her to a bench in the scented darkness of the
Sherwoods' lawn. She had telephoned "Mr. Brandon" from a drug-store booth in Flushing, and
Larry had been waiting for her near the entrance to Cedar Crest.

"What brought you out here like this, grandmother?" Larry whispered in amazement as he sat
down beside her.

"To tell you that the police are after you," she whispered back.

"I knew that already."

"Yes, I knew that you would."

"But how did you find out?"

"Maggie told me."

"Maggie!"

"She came down to see me, told me what had just happened at her place, told me about Barney
hurrying away to slip the news to that Gavegan, and begged me to warn you at once. She was
terribly nervous and wrought up."

"Maggie did that!" he breathed. His heart leaped at her unexpected concern for him. "Maggie
did that!" And then: "There wasn't any need; she should have known that I would know."

"It was rather foolish in a way--but Maggie was too excited to use cool reason."

His grandmother did not speak for a moment. "Her losing her head and coming shows that she
cares for you, Larry."

He could make no response. This was indeed the clearest evidence Maggie had yet given that
possibly she might care.

"Maggie may have lost her head in her excitement," he managed to say; "but, grandmother, there
was no reason for you to lose your head so far as to come away out here to tell me about the
police."

"I didn't come away out here to tell you about the police," she replied. "I came to tell you
something else."

"Yes?"

"You're sure you really care for Maggie?"

"I told you that when I was down to see you this evening."

Though the Duchess had decided, the desire to protect Larry remained tenaciously in her and
made it hard for her jealous love to take a risk. "You're sure she might turn out all right--that
is, under better influences?"

"I'm sure, grandmother." He recalled how a few hours earlier at the Grantham the demand of
Old Jimmie that she remain with him had seemed the force that had controlled her decision.
"There would be no doubt of it if it were not for Old Jimmie, and the people he's kept her
among, and the ideas he's been feeding her since she was a baby. I don't think she has any
love for her father; but they say blood is mighty thick and I guess with her it's just the
usual instinct of a child to stand with her father and do what he says. Yes, if she were not
held back and held down by having Old Jimmie for a father, I'm sure she'd be all right."

The Duchess felt that the moment had now arrived for her to unloose her secret. But despite
her fixed purpose to tell, her words had to be forced out, and were halting, bald.

"Jimmie Carlisle--is not her father."

"What's that?" exclaimed Larry.

"Not so loud. I said Jimmie Carlisle is not her father."

"Grandmother!"

"Her father is Joe Ellison."

"Grandmother!" He caught her hands. "Why--why--" But for a moment his utter dumbfoundment paralyzed
his speech. "You're--you're sure of that?" he finally got out.

"Yes." She went on and told of how her suspicion had been aroused, of her interview with Joe
Ellison which had transmuted suspicion into certainty, of her theory of the motives which had
actuated Jimmie Carlisle in so perverting the directions of the man who had held Jimmie as
his most trusted friend.

Larry was fairly stunned by this recital of what had been done. And he was further stunned
as he realized the fullness of what now seemed to be the circumstances.

"God, think of it!" he breathed. "Maggie trying to be a great adventuress because she was brought
up that way, because she thinks her father wants her to be that--and having never a guess of
the truth! And Joe Ellison believing that his daughter is a nice, simple girl, happily ignorant
of the life he tried to shield her from--and having never a guess of the truth! What a situation!
And if they should ever find out--"

He broke off, appalled by the power and magnitude of what he vaguely saw. Presently he said
in a numbed, awed voice:

"They should know the truth. But how are they to find out?"

"I'm leaving all that to you, Larry. Maggie and Joe Ellison are your affair. It's up to you
to decide what you think best to do."

Larry was silent for several moments. "You've known this for some time, grandmother?"

"For several weeks."

"Why didn't you tell me before?"

"I was afraid it might somehow bring you closer to Maggie, and I didn't want that," she answered
honestly. "Now I think a little better of Maggie. And you've proved to me I can trust a great
deal more to your judgment. Yes, I guess that's the chief reason I've come out here to tell
you this: you've proved to me I've got to respect your judgment. And so whatever you may do--about
Maggie or anything else--will be all right with me."

She did not wait for a response, but stood up. Her voice which had been shot through with emotion
these last few minutes was now that flat, mechanical monotone to which the habitants of her
little street were accustomed.

"I must be getting back to the city. Good-night."

He started to accompany her to her car, but she forbade him, saying that it would not help
matters to have him seen and possibly recognized by the taxicab driver; and so she went out
of the grounds alone. Within another hour and a half she was set down unobserved in a dim side
street in Brooklyn. Thence she made her way on foot to the Subway and rode home. If the police
had noticed her absence and should question her, she could refuse to answer, or say that she
had been visiting late with a friend in Brooklyn.

Larry sat long out in the night after his grandmother had left him. What should he do with
this amazing information placed at his disposal? Tell Joe Ellison? Or tell Maggie? Or tell
both? Or himself try to meet Jimmie Carlisle and pay that traitor to Joe Ellison and that malformer
of Maggie the coin he had earned?

But for hours the situation itself was still too bewildering in its many phases for Larry to
give concentrated thought to what should be its attempted solution. Not until dawn was beginning
to awaken dully, as with a protracted yawn, out of the shadowy Sound, was he able really to
hold his mind with clearness upon the problem of what use he should make of these facts of
which he had been appointed guardian. He decided against telling Joe Ellison--at least he would
not tell him yet. He recalled the rumors of Joe Ellison's repressed volcano of a temper; if
Joe Ellison should learn how he had been defrauded, all the man's vital forces would be instantly
transformed into destructive, vengeful rage that would spare no one and count no cost. The
result would doubtless be tragedy, with no one greatly served, and with Joe very likely back
in prison. If he himself should go out to give Old Jimmie his deserts, his action would be
just good powder wasted--it likewise would serve no constructive purpose. Larry realized that
it is only human nature for a wronged man to wish for and attempt revenge; but that in the
economy of life revenge has no value, serves no purpose; that it usually only makes a bad situation
worse.

A tremendous wrong had been done here, a wrong which showed a malignant, cunning, patient mind.
But as Larry finally saw the matter, the point for first consideration was not the valueless
satisfaction of making the guilty man suffer, but was to try to restore to the victims some
part of those precious things of which they had been unconsciously robbed.

And then Larry had what seemed to him an inspiration: his inspiration being only a sane thought,
and what the Duchess, though she had not pointed the way to him, had thought he would do. Maggie
was the important person in this situation!--Maggie whose life was just beginning, and whose
nature he still believed to be plastic! Not Joe Ellison or Old Jimmie Carlisle, who had almost
lived out their lives and whose natures were now settled into what they would be until the
end. By playing upon the finer elements in Maggie's character he had all but succeeded in rousing
to dominance that best nature which existed within her. He would privately tell Maggie the
truth, and tell only her and leave the using of that knowledge to her alone. The shock of that
knowledge, the effect of its revelations upon her, together with the responsibility of what
she should do with this information, might be just the final forces necessary to make Maggie
break away from all that she had been and swing over to all that he believed she might be.

Yes, that was the thing to do! And he would do it within the next twelve hours; for Dick had
told him that Maggie was coming out again to Cedar Crest on the afternoon of the day which
was now rousing from its sleep. That is, he would do it if the police or the allies of his
one-time friends did not locate him before Maggie came. But of that he had no serious fear;
he knew he had made a clean get-away from the Grantham, and that the shrewd Duchess had left
no scent by which those bloodhounds of the Police Department could trail her.

Larry did not even try to sleep; he knew it would be of no avail. Back in his own room he sat
going over the situation, and his decision. He tingled with the sense of the tremendous power
which had been delivered into his hands. Yes, tremendous! But what were going to be Maggie's
reactions the moment he told her?--just what would be her course after she knew the truth?

CHAPTER XXX

Larry undressed, had a bath, shaved, dressed again, and started to work. But that day the most
Larry did was abstractedly going through the motions of work. He was completely filled with
the situation and its many questions, and with the suspense of waiting for Maggie to come and
of how he was going to manage to see her privately.

The meeting, however, proved no difficulty; for Maggie, who arrived at four, had come primarily
on Larry's account and she herself maneuvered the encounter. While they were on the piazza,
Dick having gone into the house for a fresh supply of cigarettes, and Miss Sherwood being in
an animated discussion with Hunt, Maggie said:

"Miss Sherwood, I've never had a real look down at the Sound from the edge of your bluff. Do
you mind if Mr. Brandon shows me?"

"Not at all. Tea won't be served for half an hour, so take your time. Have Mr. Brandon show
you the view from just the other side of that old rose-bench; that's the best view."

They walked away chatting mechanically until they were in a garden seat behind the rose-bench.
The rose-bench was a rather sorry affair, for it had been set out in this exposed place by
a former gardener who had forgotten that the direct winds from the Sound are malgracious to
roses. However, it screened the two, and was far enough removed so that ordinary tones would
not carry to the house.

"Did your grandmother get you word about the police?" Maggie asked with suppressed excitement
as soon as they were seated.

"Yes. She came out here about midnight."

"Then why, while you still had time, didn't you get farther away from New York than this?"

"If I'm to be caught, I'm to be caught; in the meantime, this is as safe a place as any other
for me. Besides, I wanted to have at least one more talk with you--after something new grandmother
told me about you."

"Something new about me?" echoed Maggie, startled by his grave tone. "What?"

"About your father," he said, watching closely for the effect upon her of his revelations.

"What about my father? What's he been doing that I don't know about?"

"You do not know a single thing that your father has done."

"What!"

"Because you do not know who your father is."

"What!" she gasped.

"Listen, Maggie. What I'm going to tell you may seem unbelievable, but you've got to believe
it, because it's the truth. I can see that you have proofs if you want proofs. But you can
accept what I tell you as absolute facts. You are by birth a very different person from what
you believe yourself. Your father is not Jimmie Carlisle. And your mother--"

"Larry!" She tensely gripped his arm.

"Your mother was of a good family. I imagine something like Miss Sherwood's kind--though not
so rich and not having such social standing. She died when you were born. She never knew what
your father's business actually was; he passed for a country gentleman. He was about the smoothest
and biggest crook of his time, and a straight crook if there is such a thing."

"Larry!" she breathed.

"He kept this gentleman-farmer side of his life and his marriage entirely hidden from his crook
acquaintances; that is, from all except one whom he trusted as his most loyal friend. Before
you were old enough to remember, he was tripped up and sent away on a twenty-year sentence."

"And he's--he's still in prison?" whispered Maggie.

Larry did not heed the interruption. "He had developed the highest kind of ambition for you.
He wanted you to grow up a fine simple woman like your mother--something like Miss Sherwood.
He did not want you ever to know the sort of life he had known; and he did not want you to
be handicapped by the knowledge that you had a crook for a father. He still had intact your
mother's fortune, a small one, but an honest one. So he put you and the money in the hands
of his trusted friend, with the instructions that you were to be brought up as the girls of
the nicest families are brought up, and believing yourself an orphan."

"That friend of his, Larry?" she whispered tensely.

"Jimmie Carlisle."

"O--oh!"

"I don't know what Jimmie Carlisle's motives were for what he has done. Perhaps to get your
money, perhaps some grudge against your father, which he was afraid to show while your father
was free, for your father was always his master. But Old Jimmie has brought you up exactly
contrary to the orders he received. If revenge was Old Jimmie's motive, his cunning, cowardly
brain could not have conceived a more diabolical revenge, one that would hurt your father more.
Till a few years ago, when word was sent to your father that Old Jimmie was dead, Jimmie regularly
wrote your father about the success of his plan, about how splendidly you were developing and
getting on with the best people. And your father--I knew him in prison--now believes you have
grown up into exactly the kind of young woman he planned."

"Larry!" she choked in a numbed voice. "Larry!"

"Your father is now as happy as it is possible for him to be, for he has lived for years and
still lives in the belief that his great dream, the only big thing left for him to do, has
come to pass: that somewhere out in the world is his daughter, grown into a nice, simple, wholesome
young woman, with a clean, wholesome life before her. And though she is the one thing in all
the world to him, he never intends to see her again for fear that his seeing her might somehow
result in an accident that would destroy her happy ignorance. Maggie, can you conceive the
tremendous meaning to your father of what he believes he has created? And can you conceive
the tremendous difference between the dream he lives upon, and the reality?"

She was white, staring, wilted. For once all the defiance, self-confidence, bravado, melted
out of her, and she was just an appalled and frightened young girl.

After a moment she managed to repeat the question Larry had ignored: "Is my real father--still
in prison?"

"You'd like to see your real father?" he asked her.

"I think--I'd like to have a glimpse of him," she breathed.

Larry, just before this, had noted Joe Ellison in his blue overalls and wide straw hat cleaning
out a bank of young dahlias a distance up the bluff. He now took Maggie's arm and guided her
in that direction.

"See that man there working among the dahlias?--the man who once brought you a bunch of roses?
Joe Ellison is his name. He's the man I've been talking about--your father."

He felt her quivering under his hand for a moment, and heard her breath come in swift, spasmodic
pants. He was wondering what was the effect upon her of this climax of his revelation, when
she whispered:

"Do you suppose--I can speak--to my father?"

"Of course. He likes all young women. And I told you that he and I were close friends."

"Then--come on." She arose, clinging to him, and drew him after her. Halfway to Joe she breathed:
"You please say something first. Anything."

He recognized this as the appeal of one whose faculties were reeling. There had never been
any attempt here at Cedar Crest to conceal Joe Ellison's past, and in Larry's case there had
been only such concealment as might help his evasion of his dangers. And so Larry remarked
as Joe Ellison took his wide hat off his white hair and stood bareheaded before them:

"Joe, Miss Cameron knows who I really am, and about my having been in Sing Sing; and I've just
told her about our having been friends there. Also I told her about your having a daughter.
It interested her and she asked me if she couldn't talk to you, so I brought her over."

Larry stood aside and tensely watched this meeting between father and daughter. Joe bowed slightly,
and with a dignified grace that overalls and over fifteen years of prison could not take from
one who during his early and middle manhood had been known as the perfection of the finished
gentleman. His gray eyes warmed with appreciation of the young figure before him, just as Larry
had seen them grow bright watching the young figures disporting in the Sound.

"It is very gracious for a young woman like you, Miss Cameron," he said in a voice of grave
courtesy, "to be interested enough in an old man like me to want to talk with him."

Maggie made the supreme effort of her life to keep herself in hand. "I wanted to talk to you
because of something Mr. Brainard told me about--about your having a daughter."

Larry felt that this was too sacred a scene for him to intrude upon. "Would you mind excusing
me," he said; "there are some calculations I've got to rush out"--and he returned to the bench
on which they had been sitting and pretended to busy himself over a pocket notebook.

While Larry had been speaking and moving away, Maggie had swiftly been appraising her father.
His gray eyes were direct as against the furtiveness of Jimmie's; his mouth had a firm kindliness
as against the wrinkled cunning of Jimmie's; his bearing was erect, self-possessed, as against
Jimmie's bent, shuffling carriage. Maggie felt no swift-born daughter love for this stranger
who was her father. The turmoil of her discovery filled her too completely to admit a full-grown
affection; but she thrilled with the sense of the vast difference between her supposed father
and this her real father.

In the meantime her father had spoken. Joe would have been more reserved with men or with older
women; but with this girl, so much the sort of girl he had long dreamed about, his reserve
vanished without resistance, and in its place was a desire to talk to this beautiful creature
who came out of the world which the big white house represented.

"I have a daughter, yes," he said. "But Larry--Mr. Brainard perhaps I should say--has likely
told you all there is to tell."

"I'd like to hear it from you, please--if you don't mind."

"There's really not much to tell," he said. "You know what I was and what happened. When I
went to prison my daughter was too young to remember me--less than two years old. I didn't
want her ever to be drawn into the sort of life that had been mine, or be the sort of woman
that a girl becomes who gets into that life. And I didn't want her ever to have the stigma,
and the handicap, of her knowing and the world knowing that her father was a convict. You can't
understand it fully, Miss Cameron, but perhaps you can understand a little how disgraced you
would feel, what a handicap it would be, if your father were a convict. I had a good friend
I could trust. So I turned my daughter over to him, to be brought up with no knowledge of my
existence, and with every reasonable advantage that a nice girl should have. I guess that's
all, Miss Cameron."

"This friend--what was his name?"

"Carlisle--Jimmie Carlisle. But his name could never have meant anything to you. Besides, he's
dead now."

Maggie forced herself on. "Your plan--it turned out all right? And you--you are happy?"

"Yes." In the sympathetic atmosphere which this young girl's presence created for him, Joe's
emotions flowed into words more freely than ever before in the company of a human being. Though
he was answering her, what he was really doing was rather just letting his heart use its long-silent
voice, speak its exultant dream and belief.

"Somewhere out in the world--I don't know where, and I don't want to know--my daughter has
now grown into a wholesome, splendid young woman!" he said in a vibrant voice. Brooding in
solitude so long upon his careful plan that he believed could not fail, had made the keen Joe
Ellison less suspicious concerning it than he otherwise would have been--perhaps had made him
a bit daffy on this one subject. "I have saved my daughter from all the grime she might have
known, and which might have soiled her, and even pulled her down if I hadn't thought out in
good time my plan to protect her. And of course I am happy!" he exulted. "I have done the best
thing that it was possible for me to do, the thing which I wanted most to do! Instead of what
she might have been, I have as a daughter just such a nice girl as you are--just about your
own age--though, of course, she hasn't your money, your social position, and naturally not
quite the advantages you have had. Of course I'm happy!"

"You're--you're sure she's all that?"

Again his words were as much a statement aloud to himself of his constant dream as they were
a direct answer to Maggie. "Of course! There was enough money--the plan was in the hands of
a friend who knew how to handle such a thing--she's never known anything but the very best
surroundings--and until she was fourteen I had regular reports on how wonderfully she was progressing.
You see my friend had had her legally adopted by a splendid family, so there's no doubt about
everything being for the best."

"And you"--Maggie drove herself on--"don't you ever want to see her?"

"Of course I do. But at the very beginning I fixed things so I could not; so that I would not
even know where she is. Removed temptation from myself, you see. Don't you see the possible
results if I should try to see her? Something might happen that would bring out the truth,
and that would ruin her happiness, her career. Don't you see?"

His gray eyes, bright with his great dream, were fixed intently upon Maggie; and yet she felt
that they were gazing far beyond her at some other girl... at his girl.

"I--I--" she gulped and swayed and would have fallen if he had not been quick to catch her arm.

"You are sick, Miss?" he asked anxiously.

"I--I have been," she stammered, trying to regain control of her faculties. "It's--it's that--and
my not eating--and standing in this hot sun. Thank you very much for what you've told me. I'd--I'd
better be getting back."

"I'll help you." And very gently, with a firm hand under one arm, he escorted her to the bench
where Larry sat scribbling nothings. He then raised his hat and returned to his dahlias.

"Well?" queried Larry when they were alone.

"I can't stand it to stay here and talk to these people," she replied in an agonized whisper.
"I must get away from here quick, so that I can think."

"May I come with you?"

"No, Larry--I must be alone. Please, Larry, please get into the house, and manage to fake a
telephone message for me, calling me back to New York at once."

"All right." And Larry hurried away. She sat, pale, breathing rapidly, her whole being clenched,
staring fixedly out at the Sound. Five minutes later Larry was back.

"It's all arranged, Maggie. I've told the people; they're sorry you've got to go. And Dick
is getting his car ready."

She turned her eyes upon him. He had never seen in them such a look. They were feverish, with
a dazed, affrighted horror. She clutched his arm.

"You must promise never to tell my father about me!"

"I won't. Unless I have to."

"But you must not! Never!" she cried desperately. "He thinks I'm--Oh, don't you understand?
If he were to learn what I really am, it would kill him. He must keep his dream. For his sake
he must never find out, he must keep on thinking of me just the same. Now, you understand?"

Larry slowly nodded.

Her next words were dully vibrant with stricken awe. "And it means that I can never have him
for my father! Never! And I think--I'd--I'd like him for a father! Don't you see?"

Again Larry nodded. In this entirely new phase of her, a white-faced, stricken, shivering girl,
Larry felt a poignant sympathy for her the like of which had never tingled through him in her
conquering moods. Indeed Maggie's situation was opening out into great human problems such
as neither he nor any one else had ever foreseen!

"There comes Dick," she whispered. "I must do my best to hold myself together. Good-bye, Larry."

A minute later, Larry just behind her, she was crossing the lawn on Dick's arm, explaining
her weakness and pallor by the sudden dizziness which had come upon her in consequence of not
eating and of being in the hot sun.

CHAPTER XXXI

Larry was far more deeply moved this time when Maggie drove away with Dick than on that former
occasion when he had tried to play with adroitness upon her psychological reactions. Now he
knew that her very world was shaken; that her soul was stunned and reeling; that she was fighting
with all her strength for a brief outward composure.

He had loved her for months, but he had never so loved her as in this hour when all her artificial
defenses had been battered down and she had been just a bewildered, agonized girl, with just
the emotions and first thoughts that any other normal girl would have had under the same circumstances.
His great desire had been to be with her, to comfort her, help her; but he realized that she
had been correct in her instinct to be by herself for a while, to try to comprehend it all,
to try to think her way out.

When Maggie was out of sight he excused himself from having tea, left Hunt and Miss Sherwood
upon the veranda, and sought his study. But though he had neglected his work the whole day,
he now gave it no attention. He sat at his desk and thought of Maggie: tried to think of what
she was going to do. Her situation was so complicated with big elements which she would have
to handle that he could not foretell just what her course would be. It was a terrific situation
for a young woman, who was after all just a very young girl, to face alone. But there was nothing
for him but to wait for news from her. And she had not said even that she would ever let him hear.

While he considered these matters he had risen and paced the room. Once he had paused at a
French window which opened upon a side veranda, and had seen below him a few yards away Joe
Ellison, whose interest in his flowers had established his workday from sunrise to sunset.
Joe Ellison had been pulling tiny weeds that were daring to attempt to get a start in a rose-garden.
Larry's mind had halted a moment upon Joe. Here at least was a contented man: one who, no matter
what happened, would remain in ignorance of possibly great events which would intimately concern
him. Then Larry had left the window and had returned to his thoughts of Maggie.

But Larry's thoughts were not to remain exclusively with Maggie for long. Shortly after six
Judkins entered and announced that a man was at the door with a message. The man had refused
to come in, saying he was only a messenger and was in a hurry; and had refused to give Judkins
the message, saying that it was verbal. Thinking that some word had come from his grandmother,
or possibly even from Maggie, Larry went out upon the veranda. Waiting for him was a nondescript
man he did not know.

"Mr. Brandon, sir?" asked the man.

"Yes. You have a message for me?"

Before the man could reply, there came a shout from the shrubbery beyond the drive:

"Grab him, Smith! He's the man!"

Instantly Smith's steely arms were about Larry, pinning his elbows to his sides, and a man
broke from the shrubbery and hurried toward the house. Instinctively Larry started to struggle,
but he ceased as he recognized the man coming up the steps. It was Gavegan. Larry realized
that he had been shrewdly trapped, that resistance would serve no end, and the next moment
handcuffs were upon his wrists.

"Well, Brainard," gloated Gavegan, "we've landed you at last!"

"So it seems, Gavegan."

"You thought you was damned clever, but I guess you know now you ain't one, two, three!"

"Oh, I knew how clever you are, Gavegan," Larry responded dryly, "and that you'd get me sooner
or later if I hung around."

As a matter of fact Larry's capture, which was as unspectacular as his escape had been strenuous,
was the consequence of no cleverness at all. Larry had said to Barney Palmer the night before
that he knew who Barney's sucker was; and Barney had passed this information along to Chief
Barlow. "Follow every clue; luck may be with you and one of the clues may turn up what you
want":--this is in substance an unwritten rule of routine procedure which effects those magnificent
police solutions which are presented as more mysterious than the original mystery--for it is
well for the public to believe that its police officers are unfailingly more clever than its
criminals. Barlow had done some routine thinking: if Larry Brainard knew Dick Sherwood was
the sucker, then watching Dick Sherwood might possibly reveal the whereabouts of Larry Brainard.
Barlow had passed this tip along to Gavegan. Gavegan had grumbled to himself that it was only
a thousand to one shot; but luck had been with him, and his long shot had won.

Miss Sherwood, Hunt behind her, had been drawn by the sound of voices around to the side of
the veranda where stood the four men. "What are you doing?" she now sharply demanded of Gavegan.

"Don't like to make any unpleasant scene, Miss Sherwood, but I've gotta tell you that this
so-called Brandon is a well-known crook." Gavegan enjoyed few things more than astounding people
with unpleasant facts. "His real name is Brainard; he's done time, and now he's wanted by the
New York police for a tough job he pulled."

"I knew all that long ago," said Miss Sherwood.

"Eh--what?" stammered Gavegan.

"Mr. Brainard told me all that the first time I saw him."

"Hello, Gavegan," said Hunt, stepping forward.

"Well, I'll be--if you ain't that crazy--" Again the ability to express himself coherently
and with restraint failed Gavegan. "If you ain't that painter that lived down at the Duchess's!"

"Right, Gavegan--as a detective always should be. And Larry Brainard was then, and is now,
my friend."

Miss Sherwood again spoke up sharply. "Mr. Gavegan--if that is your name--you will please take
those foolish things off Mr. Brainard's wrists."

Gavegan had been cheated out of creating a sensation. That discomfiture perhaps made him even
more dogged than he was by nature.

"Sorry, Miss, but he's charged with having committed a crime and is a fugitive from justice,
and I can't."

"I'll be his security. Take them off."

"Sorry to refuse you again, Miss. But he's a dangerous man--got away once before. My orders
is to take no risks that'll give him another chance for a get-away."

Miss Sherwood turned to Larry. "I'll go into town with you, and so will Mr. Hunt. I'll see
that you get bail and a good lawyer."

"Thank you, Miss Sherwood," Larry said. "Gavegan, I guess we're ready to start."

"Not just yet, Brainard. Sorry, Miss Sherwood, but we've got a search warrant for your place.
We just want to have a look at the room Brainard used. No telling what kind of crooked stuff
he's been up to. And to make the search warrant O.K. I had it issued in this county and brought
along a county officer to serve it. Show it to the lady, Smith."

"I have no desire to see it, Mr. Gavegan. I have more interest in watching you while you go
through my things." And giving Gavegan a look which made an unaccustomed flush run up that
officer's thick neck and redden his square face, she led the way into Larry's study. "This
is the room where Mr. Brainard works," she said. "Through that door is his bedroom. Everything
here except his clothing is my property. I shall hold you rigidly responsible for any disorder
you may create or any damage you may do. Now you may go ahead."

"Let's have all your keys, Brainard," Gavegan choked out.

Larry handed them over. With Miss Sherwood, Hunt, and Larry looking silently on, the two men
began their examination. They began with the papers on Larry's desk and in its drawers; and
in all his life Gavegan had not been so considerate in a search as he now was with Miss Sherwood's
blue eyes coldly upon him. They unlocked cabinets, scrutinized their contents, shook out books,
examined the backs of pictures, took up rugs; then passed into Larry's bedroom. Miss Sherwood
made no move to follow the officers into that more intimate apartment, and the other two watchers
remained with her.

A minute passed. Then Gavegan reentered, a puzzled, half-triumphant look on his red face, holding
out a square of paint-covered canvas.

"Found this thing in Brainard's chiffonier. What the he--I mean what's it doing out here?"

There was not an instant's doubt as to what the thing was. Larry started, and Hunt started,
and Miss Sherwood started. But it was Miss Sherwood who first spoke.

"Why, it's a portrait of Miss Cameron, in costume! And painted by Mr. Hunt!" In amazement she
turned first upon Larry and upon Hunt. "When did you ever paint her portrait, when you did
not meet Miss Cameron till you met her here? And, Mr. Brainard, how do you come to possess
Miss Cameron's portrait?"

It was Gavegan who spoke up promptly, and not either of the two suddenly discomfited men. And
Gavegan instantly sensed in the situation a chance to get even for the humiliation his self-esteem
had just suffered.

"Miss Cameron nothing! Her real name is Maggie Carlisle, and she used to live at a dump of
a pawnshop down on the East Side run by Brainard's grandmother. Brainard knew her there, and
so did Mr. Hunt."

"But--but--" gasped Miss Sherwood--"she's been coming out here as Maggie Cameron!"

"I tell you your Maggie Cameron is Maggie Carlisle!" said Gavegan gloatingly. "I've known her
for years. Her father is Old Jimmie Carlisle, a notorious crook. And she's mixed up right now
with her father and some others in a crooked game. And Brainard here used to be sweet on her,
and probably still is, and if he's been letting her come here, without telling you who she
is--well, I guess you know the answer. Didn't I tell you, Miss, that give me a chance and I'd
turn up something against this guy Brainard!"

Miss Sherwood's face was white, but set with grim accusation that was only waiting to pronounce
swift judgment. "Mr. Hunt, is it true that Miss Cameron is this Maggie Carlisle the officer
mentions, and that you knew it all the while?"

"Yes--" began the painter.

"Don't blame him, Miss Sherwood," Larry interrupted. "He didn't tell you because I begged him
not to as a favor to me. Blame me for everything."

Her judgment upon Hunt was pronounced with cold finality, her eyes straight into Hunt's: "Whatever
may have been Mr. Hunt's motives, I unalterably hold him to blame."

She turned upon Larry. The face which he had only seen in gracious moods was as inflexibly
stern as a prosecuting attorney's.

"We're going to go right to the bottom of this, Mr. Brainard. You too have known all along
that this Miss Cameron was really the Maggie Carlisle this officer speaks of?"

"Yes."

"And you have known all along that she was the daughter of this notorious criminal, Old Jimmie
Carlisle?"

The impulse surged up in Larry to tell the newly learned truth about Maggie. But he remembered
Maggie's injunction that the truth must never be known. He checked his revelation just in time.

"Yes."

"And is it true that Maggie Carlisle is herself what is known as a crook?--or has had crooked
inclinations or plans?"

"It's like this, Miss Sherwood--"

"A direct answer, please!"

"Yes."

"And is it true, as this officer has suggested, that you were in love with her yourself?"

"Yes."

"You are aware of my brother's infatuation for her? That he has asked her to marry him?"

"Yes."

Her voice now sounded more terrible to Larry. "I took you in to give you a chance. And your
repayment has been that, knowing all these things, you have kept silent and let me and my brother
be imposed upon by a swindling operation. And who knows, since you admit that you love the
girl, that you have not been a partner in the conspiracy from the first!"

"That's exactly the idea, Miss!" put in Gavegan.

Larry had foreseen many possible wrong turns which his plan might take, but he was appalled
by the utter unexpectedness of the actual disaster. And yet he recognized that the evidence
justified Miss Sherwood's judgment of him. It all made him seem an ingrate and a swindler.

For the moment Larry was so overwhelmed that he made no attempt to speak. And since for once
Gavegan was content merely to gloat over his triumph, there was stiff silence in the room until
Miss Sherwood said in the cold voice of a judge after a jury has brought in a verdict of guilty:

"Of course, if you think there is anything you may say for yourself, Mr. Brainard, you now
have the chance to say it."

"I have much to say, but I can't blame you if you refuse to believe most of it," Larry said
desperately, fighting for what seemed his last chance. "I loved Maggie Carlisle. I believed
she had splendid qualities. Only she was dominated by the twisted ideas Old Jimmie Carlisle
had planted in her. I wanted to eradicate those twisted ideas, and make her good qualities
her ruling ones. But she didn't believe in me. She thought me a soft-head, a police stool,
a squealer. Then I had to disappear; you know all about that. Not till I had been with you
for several weeks did I learn that she was being used in a swindling scheme against Dick.

"I did think of telling you or Dick. But my greatest interest was to awaken that better person
I believed to be in her; and I knew that the certain result of my exposing her to you would
be for me to lose the last bit of influence I had with her, and for her to pass right on to
another enterprise of similar character. So the idea came to me that if I didn't expose her,
but caused her to be received with every courtesy by her intended victims, the effect upon
her would be that she would feel a revulsion for what she was doing and she would come to her
best senses. I told this to Mr. Hunt; that's why he agreed not to give her away. And another
point, though frankly this was not so important to me: it seemed to me that a good hard jolt
might be just what was needed to make Dick take life more seriously, and I saw in this affair
a chance for Dick to get just the jolt he needed.

"That's all, Miss Sherwood. Except that I have seen signs which make me believe that what I
figured would happen to Maggie Carlisle have begun to happen to her."

"Bunk!" snorted Gavegan.

"I know that part of what he says is true," put in Hunt.

Miss Sherwood ignored Hunt and his remark. The look of controlled wrath which she held upon
Larry did not change. Larry recognized that his statement had sounded most implausible. Miss
Sherwood in her indignation considered only that her kindness had been betrayed, her hospitality
outraged, and that those she had accepted as friends had sought to trick her family in the
worst way she could conceive; and she spoke accordingly.

"If that is the best Mr. Brainard has to say for himself, Mr. Gavegan, you may take him with
you, and without any interference from me. I ask only that you take him out of the house at once."

With that she moved from the room, not looking again at either Hunt or Larry. For a brief space
there was silence, while Gavegan let his triumph feed gloatingly upon the sight of his prisoner.

This brief silence was broken by a low, strange sound, like a human cry quickly repressed,
that seemed to come from just outside the French windows.

"What was that?" Larry asked quickly.

"I didn't hear anything," said Gavegan whose senses had been thoroughly concentrated upon his
triumph.

"I did," said Hunt. "On the veranda."

"We'll see. Watch him--" to the county officer; and Gavegan followed Hunt to the French windows
and looked out. "No one on the veranda, and no one in sight," he reported. "You fellows must
have been dreaming."

He returned and faced Larry. "I guess you'll admit, Brainard, that I've got you for keeps this
time."

"Then suppose we be starting for Headquarters." Larry responded.

Hunt moved to Larry's side. "I'll just trail along after you, Larry. Anyhow, this doesn't seem
to be any place for me."

A few minutes afterwards Larry was in a car beside Gavegan, speeding away from Cedar Crest
toward the city. Larry's thoughts were the gloomiest he had entertained since he had come out
of Sing Sing months before with his great dream. All that he had counted on had gone wrong.
He was in the hands of the police, and he knew how hard the police would be. He had incurred
the hostility of Miss Sherwood and had lost what had seemed a substantial opportunity to start
his career as an honest man. The only item of his great plan in which he did not seem to have
failed completely was Maggie. And he did not know what Maggie was going to do.

CHAPTER XXXII

When Maggie drove away with Dick from Cedar Crest--this was an hour before Gavegan descended
out of the blue upon Larry and two hours before he rode triumphantly away with his captive--she
was the most dazed and disillusioned young creature who had ever set out confidently to conquer
the world. Courage, confidence, quickness of wit, all the qualities on which she had prided
herself, were now entirely gone, and she was just a white, limp figure that wanted to run away:
a weak figure in which swirled thoughts almost too spasmodically powerful for so weakened a
vessel not to be shattered under their wild strain: thoughts of her amazingly discovered real
father--of how she was the very contradiction of her father's dream--of Larry--of the cunning
Jimmie Carlisle whom till this day she had believed her father--of Barney Palmer.

So agitated was she with these gyrating thoughts that she was not conscious that Dick had stopped
the car on the green roadside until he had taken her hand and had begun to speak. The happy,
garrulous, unobservant Dick had not noticed anything out of the way with her more than a pallor
which she had explained away as being due to nothing more than a bit of temporary dizziness.
And so for the second time Dick now poured out his love to her and asked her to marry him.

"Don't, Dick--please!" she interrupted him. "I can't marry you! Never!"

"What!" cried the astounded Dick. "Maggie--why not?"

"I can't. That's final. And don't make me talk to you now, Dick--please! I cannot!"

His face, so fresh and happy the moment before, became gray and lined with pain. But he silently
swung the car back into the road.

She forgot him utterly in what was happening within her. As they rode on, she forced herself
to think of what she should do. She saw herself as the victim of much, and as guilty of much.
And then inspiration came upon her, or perhaps it was merely a high frenzy of desperation,
and she saw that the responsibility for the whole situation was upon her alone; she saw it
as her duty, the role assigned her, to try to untangle alone this tangled situation, to try
to measure out justice to every one.

First of all, as she had told Larry, her father's dream of her must remain unbroken. Whatever
she did, she must do nothing that might possibly be a sharp blow to the conception of his daughter
which were the roots and trunk and flowering branches of his present happiness.. .. And then
came a real inspiration! She would, in time, make herself into the girl he believed her--make
his dream the truth! She would get rid of Old Jimmie and Barney--would cut loose from everything
pertaining to her former life--would disappear and live for a year or two in the kind of environment
in which he believed he had placed her--and would reappear and claim him for her father! And
for his own sake, he should never know the truth. Two years more and he should have the actuality,
where he now had only the dream!

But before she was free to enter upon this plan, before she could vanish out of the knowledge
of all who had known her, there was a great duty to Larry Brainard which she must discharge.
He was hunted by the police, he was hunted by his former pals. And he was in his predicament
fundamentally because of her. Therefore, it was her foremost duty to clear Larry Brainard.

Yes, she would do that first! Somehow!...

She was considering this problem of how she was to clear Larry, who had tried to awaken her,
who had shielded her, who loved her, when Dick slowed his car down in front of the Grantham
and helped her out. As he said a subdued good-bye and was stepping back into his car, an impulse
surged up into her--an impulse of this different Maggie whose birth was being attended by such
bewildering emotions and decisions.

"Dick, won't you please come up for just a little while?"

Three minutes later they were in her sitting-room. Cap in hand Dick awaited her words in the
misery of silence. Her look was drawn, but direct.

"Back in the road, Dick, you asked me why I couldn't marry you. I asked you up here to tell you."

"Yes?" he queried dully.

"One reason is that, though I like you, I don't like you that way. The more important reason
to you is that I am a fraud."

"A fraud!" he exclaimed incredulously.

It had come to her, as she was leaving the car, that the place to start her new life was to
start right, or quit right, with Dick. "A fraud," she repeated--"an impostor. There is no Maggie
Cameron. I am born of no good family from the West. I have no money. I have always lived in
New York--most of the time down on the East Side. I used to work in a Fifth Avenue millinery
shop. Till three months ago I sold cigarettes in one of the big hotels."

"What of that!" cried Dick.

"That is the nicest part of what I have to tell you," she continued relentlessly. "My supposed
relatives, Jimmie Carlisle and Barney Palmer, are no relatives at all, but are two clever confidence
men. I have been in with them, working on a scheme they have framed. Everything I have seemed
to be, everything I have done, even this expensive apartment, have all been parts of that scheme.
The idea of that scheme was to swindle some rich man out of a lot of money--through my playing
on his susceptibilities."

"Maggie!" he gasped.

"More concretely, the idea was to trick some rich man into falling in love with me, to get
him to propose, then to have me confess that I was already married, but to a man who would
give me a divorce if he were paid enough. The rich man would then drive a bargain with my supposed
husband, pay over a lot of money--after which Barney, Old Jimmie, and I would disappear with
our profits."

"Maggie!" he repeated, stupefied with his incredulous amazement. But the unflinching gaze she
held upon him convinced him she was speaking the truth. "Then, if that was your game, why are
you telling me now? Why didn't you say 'yes' when I proposed a week ago? I would have fallen
for the game; you would have succeeded."

Not till that moment did Maggie realize the full truth; not till then did she realize the solid
influence Larry Brainard had been in the background of her life all these months.

"I didn't go through with it because of Larry Brainard."

"Larry Brainard!" His astonishment increased. "You know Larry Brainard, then?"

"I've known him for several years."

"And you've been coming out, and he's been pretending not to know you! Of course I knew what
Larry Brainard has been. But is he in this, too?"

"No. He's exactly what you think him. From the start he's been trying to keep me out of this.
He was behind my coming to your house; he's told me so. His reason for getting me there was
his belief that my being treated by you and your sister as I was would make me ashamed of myself
and make me want to quit what I was doing. And I think--I think he was right--partly."

"And Larry--he's the reason you're telling me now?"

"I think so. But there are other reasons." Making a clean breast of things though she was,
she felt she dared not trust Dick with the secret of her father. "I--I wanted to clear things
up as far as I was responsible. That's one reason I'm telling you. There was the chance you
might sometime find out that Larry had known me and suspect him; I wanted you to know the truth
of what he'd really done. And I wanted to tell you the truth about myself, so you'd despise
and forget me, instead of perhaps carrying around romantic delusions about me after I've gone.
And there's another reason. I'd like to tell you--for you've been everything that's fine to
me--if it won't offend you."

"Go on," he said huskily.

"Barney Palmer picked you out as the victim--you didn't know you were being picked out--because
he said that you were an easy mark. That you took things for exactly what they pretended to
be, and didn't care what you did with your money. That you never would settle down into a responsible
person. I'm telling you all this, Dick, because I don't want you to be what Barney said."

Dick slumped into a chair, at last beaten down by this cumulative revelation. He buried his
face in his hands and his panting breath was convulsive with unuttered sobs. Maggie looked
down upon the young boy, with pity, remorse, and an increasing recognition of the wide-spread
suffering she had wrought.

"To think that this has all been horrible make-believe!" he at last groaned. "That all the
while I've been looked on as just a young fool who would always remain a fool!"

Maggie, in her sense of guilt, was helpless to make any reply that would soften his agony;
and for a space neither spoke.

Presently Dick stood suddenly up. His face was still marked by suffering, but somehow it seemed
to have grown older without losing its youth. There was a new blaze of determination in the
direct look he held on Maggie.

"You say you have never loved me?" he demanded.

She shook her head. "But I've told you that I've always liked you."

"Larry Brainard's doing what he has kept on doing for you--that means that he loves you, doesn't
it?" he pressed on.

"He has told me so."

"And you love him?"

"What difference does that make?--since I am going away as soon as I get everything I'm wholly
or partly responsible for cleared up."

"If Larry Brainard has known you for a long while, then how about Barney Palmer and Jimmie
Carlisle?"

"They've known me as long, or longer."

"Then you must have all known each other?"

"Yes. Years ago Larry worked with Barney and Jimmie Carlisle."

"What was the attitude of those two toward Larry, when he was trying to balk them by making
you give up the plan?"

"They hated him. They are the cause--especially Barney--of all of Larry's trouble with the
police and with the old crowd he's quit. To try to clear Larry, that's the most important thing
I'm going to try to do."

"And that's where you've got to let me help you!" Dick cried with sudden energy. "Larry's been
a mighty good friend to me--he's tried to head me right--and I owe him a lot. And I'd like
a chance to show that Barney Palmer I'm not going to keep on being the eternal fool he sized
me up to be!"

Maggie was startled by this swift transformation. "Why--why, Dick!" she breathed.

"What's your plan to clear Larry?"

"I hadn't got so far as to have a clear plan. I had only just realized that there had to be
a plan. But since they have set the police on Larry, it came to me that the idea behind any
plan would be for the police to really capture Barney and Jimmie Carlisle--get them out of
Larry's way."

"That's it!" Dick Sherwood had a mind which, given an interesting stimulus, could work swiftly;
and it worked swiftly now. "They were planning to trim me. Let's use that plan you outlined
to me--use it to-night. You can tell them some story which will make immediate action seem
necessary and we'll all get together this evening. I'll play my part all right--don't you worry
about me! I'll come with a roll of money that I'll dig up somewhere, and it'll be marked money.
When it's passed--bingo!--a couple of detectives that we'll have planted to watch the proceedings
will step right up and nab the two!"

She was taken aback by the very idea of him, the victim, after her confession, throwing his
lot in with her. "Why, Dick"--she stammered--"to think of you offering to do such a thing!"

"I owe that much to Larry Brainard," he declared. "And--and I owe that much to your desire
to help set him straight. Well, what about my plan?"

Since he seemed eager to lend himself to it, it seemed to her altogether wonderful, and she
told him so. They discussed details for several minutes, for there was much to be done and
it had all to be done most adroitly. It was agreed that he should come at ten o'clock, when
the stage would all be set.

As he was leaving to attend to his part of the play, a precautionary idea flashed upon Maggie.

"Better telephone me just before you come. Something may have happened to change our plans."

"All right--I'll telephone. Just keep your nerve."

With that he hurried out. At about the time he left, Larry was leaving Cedar Crest in handcuffs
beside the burly and triumphant Gavegan, and believing that the power he had sought to exercise
was now effectually at an end. He was out of it. In his despondency it was not granted him
to see that the greatest thing which he could do was already done; that he had set in motion
all the machinery of what had taken place and what was about to take place; that all the figures
in the action of the further drama of that night were to act as they were to do primarily because
of promptings which came from him.

CHAPTER XXXIII

Dick's departure left Maggie to think alone upon an intricate and possibly dangerous interplay
of characters in which she had cast herself for the chief role, which might prove a sacrificial
role for her. She quickly perceived that Dick's plan, clever as it might be, would bring about,
in the dubious event of its success, only one of the several happenings which had to come to
pass if she were to clear her slate before her disappearance.

Dick's plan was good; but it would only get rid of Barney and Old Jimmie. It would only rid
Larry of such danger as they represented; it would only be revenge upon them for the evil they
had done. And, after all, revenge helped a man forward but very little. There would still remain,
even in the event of the success of Dick's plan, the constant danger to Larry from the police
hunt, instigated by Chief Barlow's vindictive determination to send Larry back to prison for
his refusal to be a stool-pigeon; and the constant danger from his one-time friends who were
hunting him down with deadly hatred as a squealer.

Somehow, if she were to set things right for Larry, she had to maneuver that night's happenings
in such a way as to eliminate forever Barlow's persecutions, and eliminate forever the danger
to Larry from his friends' and their hirelings' desire for vengeance upon a supposed traitor.

Maggie thought rapidly, elaborating on Dick's plan. But what Maggie did was not so much the
result of sober thought as of the inspiration of a desperate, hardly pressed young woman; but
then, after all, what we call inspiration is only thought geared to an incredibly high speed.
First of all, she got rid of that slow-witted, awesome supernumerary, Miss Grierson, who might
completely upset the delicate action of the stage by a dignified entrance at the wrong moment
and with the wrong cue. Next she called up Chief Barlow at Police Headquarters. Fortunately
for her Barlow was still in; for an acrimonious dispute, then in progress and taking much space
in the public prints, between him and the District Attorney's office was keeping him late at
his desk despite the most autocratic and pleasant of all demands, those of his dinner hour.
To him Maggie gave a false name, and told him that she had most important information to communicate
at once; to which he growled back that she could give it if she came down at once.

Next she called up Barney, who had been waiting near a telephone in expectation of news of
the result of her second visit to the home of Dick Sherwood. To Barney she said that she had
the greatest possible news--news which would require immediate action--and that he should be
at her suite at nine o'clock prepared to play his part at once in the big proposition that
had just developed, and that he should get word to Old Jimmie to follow him in a few minutes.

Within fifteen minutes a taxicab had whirled her down to Police Headquarters and she was in
the office where three months earlier Larry had been grilled after his refusal of the license
to steal and cheat on the condition that he become a police stool. Barlow, who was alone in
the room, looked up with a scowl from a secret report he had secured of the activities of detectives
in the District Attorney's office. Although Maggie was pretty and stylishly dressed, Barlow
did not rise nor did he remove the big cigar he had been viciously gnawing. It is the tradition
of the Police Department, the most thoroughly respected article of its religion, that a woman
who is seen in Police Headquarters cannot by any possibility be a lady.

"Well, what's on your chest?" he grunted, not even asking her to be seated.

It was suddenly Maggie's impulse--sprung perhaps out of unconscious memory of what Larry had
suffered--to inflict upon herself the uttermost humiliation. So she said:

"I've come here to offer myself as a stool-pigeon."

"What's that?" Barlow exclaimed, startled. It was not often that a swell lady--who of course
couldn't be a swell (he did not know who Maggie was)--voluntarily walked into his office with
such a proposition.

"I can give you some real information about a big game that's being worked up. In fact, I can
arrange for you to be present when the game is pulled off, and you can make the arrests."

"Who are the people?" he asked brusquely.

Maggie knew it would be fatal to mention Barney or Old Jimmie, if that story about Barlow's
protection contained any truth. Again inspiration, or incredibly swift thinking, came to her
aid, and with sure touch she twanged one of Barlow's rawest and most responsive nerves.

"Larry Brainard is behind it all. He's been doing a lot of things on the quiet these last few
months. Here is where you can get his whole crowd."

"Larry Brainard!"

Maggie did not yet know what had befallen Larry, and Gavegan had neglected to telephone his
Chief of the arrest. Even had Gavegan done so, the large and vague manner in which Maggie had
stated the situation would have stirred Barlow's curiosity.

"All right. I'll put a couple of my good men on the case. Where shall I send 'em?"

"A couple of your good men won't do. I want only one of your good men--and that man is yourself."

"Me!" growled Barlow. "What kind of floor-walker d'you think I am? I'm too busy!"

"Too busy to take personal charge, and get personal credit, for one of the biggest cases that
ever went through this office?"

Maggie had sought only to excite his vanity. But unknowingly she had also appealed to something
else in him: his very deep concern in the hostile activities of the District Attorney's office.
If this girl told the truth, then here might be his chance to display such devotion to duty
as to turn up some such sensational case as would make this investigation from the District
Attorney's office seem to the public an unholy persecution and make the chagrined District
Attorney, who was very sensitive to public opinion, think it wiser to drop the whole matter.

"How do I know you're not trying to string me?--or get me out of the way of something bigger?--or
hand me the double-cross?"

"I shall be there all the time, and if you don't like the way the thing develops you can arrest
me. I suppose you've got some kind of law, with a stiff punishment attached, about conspiracy
against an officer."

"Well--give me all the dope, and tell me where I'm to come," he yielded ungraciously.

"I've told you all I am going to tell. All the important 'dope' you'll get first-hand by being
present when the thing happens. The place to come is the Hotel Grantham--room eleven-forty-two--at
eight-thirty sharp."

To this Barlow grudgingly agreed. He might have exulted inwardly, but he would have shown no
outer graciousness if a committee of citizens had handed him a reward of a million dollars
and an engrossed testimonial to his unprecedented services. Barlow did not know how to thank
any one.

Five minutes after she left Headquarters Maggie was in the back room of the Duchess's pawnshop,
which her rapid planning had fixed upon as the next station at which she should stop. She did
not waste a moment in coming to the point with the Duchess.

"Red Hannigan is really the most important of Larry's old friends who are out to get him, isn't
he?" she asked.

"Yes--in a way. I mean among those who honestly think Larry has turned stool and squealer.
He trusted Larry more than any one else--and now he hates Larry more than any one else. Rather
natural, since he was two months in the Tombs before he could get bail--because he thinks Larry
squealed on him."

"How's he stand with his crowd?"

"No one higher. They'd all take his word for anything."

"Can you find him at once?" Maggie pursued breathlessly.

That was a trifling question to ask the Duchess; since all the news of her shadowy world came
to her ears in some swift obscure manner.

"Yes. If it is necessary."

"It's terribly necessary! If I can't get him, the whole thing may fail!"

"What thing?" demanded the Duchess.

"It might all sound impossibly foolish!" cried the excited, desperate Maggie. "You might tell
me so--and discourage me--and I simply must go ahead! I feel rather like--like a juggler who's
trying for the first time to keep a lot of new things going in the air all at once. But I think
there's a chance that I may succeed! I'll tell you just one thing. It all has to do with Larry.
I think I may help Larry."

"I'll get Red Hannigan," the Duchess said briefly. "What do you want with him?"

"Have him come to the Hotel Grantham--room eleven-forty-two--at eight-fifteen sharp!"

"He'll be there," said the Duchess.

There followed a swirling taxi-ride back to the Grantham, and a rapid change into her most
fetching evening gown (she had not even a thought of dinner) to play her bold part in the drama
which she was excitedly writing in her mind and for which she had just engaged her cast. She
was on fire with terrible suspense: would the other actors play their parts as she intended
they should?--would her complicated drama have the ending she was hoping for?

Had she been in a more composed, matter-of-fact state of mind, this play which she was staging
would have seemed the crudest, most impossible melodrama--a thing both too absurd and too dangerous
for her to risk. But Maggie was just then living through one of the highest periods of her
life; she cared little what happened to her. And it is just such moods that transform and elevate
what otherwise would be absurd to the nobly serious; that changes the impossible into the possible;
just as an exalted mood or mind is, or was, the primary difference between Hamlet, or Macbeth,
or Lear, and any of the forgotten Bowery melodramas of a generation now gone.

She had been dressed for perhaps ten nervous minutes when the bell rang. She admitted a slight,
erect, well-dressed, middle-aged man with a lean, thin-lipped face and a cold, hard, conservative
eye: a man of the type that you see by the dozens in the better hotels of New York, and seeing
them you think, if you think of them at all, that here is the canny president of some fair-sized
bank who will not let a client borrow a dollar beyond his established credit, or that here
is the shrewd but unobtrusive power behind some great industry of the Middle West.

"I'm Hannigan," he announced briefly. "I know you're Old Jimmie Carlisle's girl. The Duchess
told me you wanted me on something big. What's the idea?"

"You want to get Larry Brainard, don't you?--or whoever it was that squealed on you?"

There was a momentary gleam in the hard, gray eyes. "I do."

"That's why you're here. In a little over an hour, if you stay quiet in the background, you'll
have what you want."

"You've got a swell-looking lay-out here. What's going to be pulled off?"

"It's not what I might tell you that's going to help you. It's what you hear and see."

"All right," said the thin-lipped man. "I'll pass the questions, since the Duchess told me
to do as you said. She's square, even if she does have a grandson who's a stool. I suppose
I'm to be out of sight during whatever happens?"

"Yes."

In the room there were two spacious closets, as is not infrequent in the better class of modern
hotels; and it had been these two closets which had been the practical starting-point of Maggie's
development of Dick Sherwood's proposition. To one of these she led Hannigan.

"You'll be out of sight here, and you'll get every word."

He stepped inside, and she closed the door. Also she took the precaution of locking it. She
wished Hannigan to hear, but she wished no such contretemps as Hannigan bursting forth and
spoiling her play when it had reached only the middle of its necessary action.

Barlow came promptly at half-past eight. He brought news which for a few moments almost completely
upset Maggie's delicately balanced structure.

"I know who you are now," he said brusquely. "And part of your game's cold before you start."

"Why?--What part?"

"Just after you left Headquarters Officer Gavegan showed up. He had this Larry Brainard in
tow--had pinched him out on Long Island."

This announcement staggered Maggie; for the moment made all her strenuous planning seem to
have lost its purpose. In her normal condition she might either have given up or betrayed her
real intent. But just now, in her super-excited state, in which she felt she was fighting desperately
for others, she was acting far above her ordinary capacity; and she was making decisions so
swift that they hardly seemed to proceed from conscious thought. So Barlow, vigilant watcher
of faces that he was, saw nothing unusual in her expression or manner.

"What did you do with him?" she asked.

"Left him with Gavegan--and with Casey, who had just come in. Trailing with Brainard was a
swell named Hunt, cussing mad. He was snorting around about being pals with most of the magistrates,
and swore he'd have Brainard out on bail inside an hour. But what he does don't make any difference
to me. Your proposition seems to me dead cold, since I've already got Brainard, and got him
right. I wouldn't have bothered to have come here at all except for something you let drop
about the pals he might have been working with these last few months."

"That's exactly it," she caught him up. "I never thought that you'd catch Larry Brainard here.
How could I, when, if you know me as you say, you also know that he and I are in different
camps--are fighting each other? What's going to happen here is something that will show you
the people Larry Brainard's been mixed up with--that will turn up for you the people you want."

"But what's going to happen?" Barlow demanded.

To this Maggie answered in much the same strain she had used with Hannigan a few minutes earlier.
"I told you down at Headquarters that everything that's important you'll learn by being present
when the thing actually happened. What I tell you doesn't count for much--it might not be true.
It's what you see and hear for yourself when things begin to happen. You're to wait in here."
She led him to the second large closet and opened the door.

"See here," he demanded, "are you framing something on me?"

"How can I, in a big hotel like this? And even if I were to try, you'd certainly make me pay
for it later. Besides, you've got a gun. Please go in quick; I'm expecting the people here
any minute. And don't make a sound that might arouse their suspicions and queer everything."

He entered, and she closed the door. So carefully that he did not hear it, she locked the door;
no more than in Hannigan's case did she want Barlow to come bungling into a scene before it
had reached its climax.

All was now ready for the curtain to rise. Quivering all through she waited for Barney Palmer,
whose entrance was to open her drama. She glanced at her wrist-watch which she had left upon
the little lacquered writing-table. Ten minutes of nine. Ten more minutes to wait. She felt
far more of sickening suspense than ever did any young playwright on the opening night of his
first play. For she was more than merely playwright. In her desperate, overwrought determination
Maggie had assumed for herself the super-mortal role of dea ex machina. And in those moments
of tense waiting Maggie, who so feverishly loathed all she had been, was not at all sure whether
she was going to succeed in her part of goddess from the machine.

At five minutes to nine there was a ring. She gave a little jump at the sound. That was Barney.
Though generally when Barney came he used the latch-key which his assumed dear cousinship,
and the argued possibility of their being out and thus causing him to wait around in discomfort,
Miss Grierson's sense of propriety had unbent far enough to permit him to possess. The truth
was, of course, that Barney had desired the key so that he might have most private conferences
with Maggie, at any time necessity demanded, without the stolidly conscientious Miss Grierson
ever knowing what had happened and being therefore unable to give dangerous testimony.

Maggie crossed and opened the door. But instead of Barney Palmer, it was Larry who stepped
in. He quickly closed the door behind him.

"Larry!" she cried startled. "Why--why, I thought the police had you!"

"They did. But Hunt was with me, and he got hold of a magistrate who would have made Hunt a
present of the Tombs and Police Headquarters if he had owned them."

"Then you're out on bail?"

"Got out about ten minutes ago. Hunt didn't have any property he could put up as security,
so he 'phoned my grandmother. She walked in with an armload of deeds. Why, she must own as
much property in New York as the Astor Estate."

"Larry, I'm so glad!" And then, remembering what, according to her plan, was due to begin to
happen almost any moment, she exclaimed in dismay: "But, Larry, oh, why did you come here now!"

"I wanted to know--you understand--what you had decided to do after learning about your father.
And I wanted to tell you that, after all my great boasts to you, I seem to have failed in every
boast. Item one, the police have got me. Item two, since the police have got me, my old pals
will also most likely get me. Item three, when I was arrested at Cedar Crest Miss Sherwood
learned that I had known you all along and believes I was part of a conspiracy to clean out
the family; so she chucked me--and I've lost what I believed my big chance to make good. So,
you see, Maggie, it looks as if you were right when you predicted that I was going to fail
in everything I said I was going to do."

"Larry--Miss Sherwood believes that!" she breathed. And then she remembered again, and caught
his arm with sudden energy. "Larry, you mustn't stay here!"

"Why not?"

Her answer was almost identical with one she had given the previous evening. "Because Barney
Palmer may be here the next minute!"

His response was in sense also identical. "Then I'll stay right here. There's no one I want
to see as much as Barney Palmer. And this time I'll have it out with him!"

Maggie was in consternation at this unexpected twist which was not in the brain-manuscript
of her play at all--which indeed threatened to take her play right out of her hands. "Please
go, Larry!" she cried desperately. "And please give me a chance! You'll spoil it all if you stay!"

"I'm going to stay right here," was his grim response.

She realized there was no changing him. She glimpsed a closet door behind him, and caught at
the chance of saving at least a fragment of her drama.

"Stay, then but, Larry, please give me a chance to do what I want to do! Please!" By this time
she had dragged him across the room and had started to unlock the closet. "Just wait in here--and
keep quiet! Please!"

He took the key from her fumbling hands, unlocked the door, and slipped the key into his pocket.
"All right--I'll give you your chance," he promised.

He stepped through the door and closed it upon himself, entombing himself in blackness. The
next moment the glare of a pocket flash was in his face, blinding him.

"Larry Brainard!" gritted a low voice in the darkness.

Larry could see nothing, but there was no mistaking that voice. "Red Hannigan!" he exclaimed.

"Yes--you damned squealer! And I'm going to finish you off right here!"

The light clicked out, and a pair of lean hands almost closed on Larry's wind-pipe. But Larry
caught the wrists of the older man in a grip the other could not break. There was a brief struggle
in the blackness of the closet, then the slighter man stood still with his wrists manacled
by Larry's hands.

"Evidently you haven't a gun on you, Red, or you, wouldn't have tried this," Larry commented.
"Anyhow, you couldn't have got away with killing in a big hotel, whether you had strangled
me or shot me. I don't blame you for being sore at me, Red--only you've got me all wrong. But
you and I are evidently here for the same purpose: to get next to something that's going to
happen out in the room. What do you say, Red?--let's suspend hostilities for the present. You've
got me where you can follow me, and you can get me any time."

"You bet I'll get you!" declared Hannigan. And then after a few more words an armistice was
agreed upon between the two men in the closet and silently, tensely, they stood in the dark
awaiting whatever was to happen.

Outside Maggie, that amateur playwright who had tried so desperately to prearrange events,
that inexperienced goddess from the machine, stood in a panic of fear and suspense the like
of which she had never known.

CHAPTER XXXIV

But when Barney's latch-key slid into the door and Barney, in a smart dinner jacket, came in,
Maggie was herself again. Indeed she was better than herself, for there rushed to her support
that added power which she had just been despairing of, which carries some people through an
hour of crisis, and which may occasionally lift an actor above himself when fortune gives him
a difficult yet splendid part which is the great chance of his career.

And Maggie showed to the eye that she was better than her best, for Barney exclaimed the instant
he was beside her: "Gee, Maggie, you look like the Queen of Sheba, whoever that dame was! Any
guy would fall for you to-night--and fall so hard that he'd break, or go broke!"

But Barney was too eager to await any response. "What's behind the hurry-up call you sent in?
Anything broken yet?"

"Something big! But sit down. There's a lot to tell. And I must tell it quick--before my"--she
could not force herself to say "father"--"before Old Jimmie comes, and Dick."

"Then Dick's coming?"

"Yes. Things have taken a twist so that everything breaks to-night. But sit down, and I'll
tell you everything."

She had noted that the door behind which Larry stood, and to which he had captured the key,
was open a bare half-inch. It looked no more suspicious than any closet door that by accident
had swung free of its latch, but by deft maneuvering Maggie managed so that Barney sat at the
table with his back toward both closets.

"Go to it, Maggie," he urged.

The plan which had swiftly developed from Dick Sherwood's idea required that she should tell
much that was the truth and much that was not truth, and required that she should play with
every faculty and every attraction she possessed upon Barney's tremendous vanity and upon his
jealous admiration of her. She had to make him believe more in her as a pal than ever before;
she had to make him want her more as a woman than ever before. And at this moment she felt
herself thrillingly equal to this vampire role her over-stimulated sense of justice had commanded
her to undertake.

"Things have gone great," she began, speaking concisely, yet trying not in this eager brevity
to lose the convincing effect that she would be the complete mistress of any enterprise to
which she yielded her interest. "Dick Sherwood proposed to me again, and this time I said `yes.'
I saw that he was ready for anything, so I took some things into my hands. I had to, for I
saw we had to act quick even at the risk of losing a bit of the maximum figure we had counted
on. You see I realized the danger to us in Larry Brainard suddenly showing up, and his knowing,
as he told us he did, who the sucker is that we've been stringing along. Anything might happen,
any minute, from Larry Brainard that would upset everything. So I reasoned that we had to collect
quick or run the risk of never getting a nickel."

"Some bean you've got, Maggie," he said admiringly. "Keep your foot on the gas pedal."

"What I did was only, the carrying-out of the plan you had decided on--of course carrying it
out quicker, and with a few little changes that the urgent situation demanded. After he proposed
I broke down, as per schedule, and confessed that I had deceived him to the extent that I was
already married. Married to a man I didn't love, and who didn't love me, but who was a tight-wad
and who wouldn't let me go unless he saw a lot of money in it for him. And I gave Dick all
the rest of the story, just as we had doped it out."

"Great work, Maggie! How did he take it?"

"Exactly as we figured he would. He was sorry for me; it didn't make any difference at all
in his feelings for me. He'd buy my husband off--give him any price he wanted--and just so
I wouldn't have to feel myself bound to such a man a minute longer than necessary he'd make
a bargain with him at once and pay him part of the money right down. To-night, if he could
get in touch with my husband. And so, Barney, since we had to act quick and there was no time
to bring in another man that I could pass off as my husband, I confessed to him that I was
married to you."

"To me!" exclaimed Barney.

"And he's coming here in less than an hour, with real money in his pockets, to see if he can't
fix a deal with you."

"Me!" exclaimed the startled Barney again. His beady eyes glowed at her ardently. "Gee, you
know I wish I really was married to you, Maggie! If I was, you bet money couldn't ever pry
you loose from me!"

"Well, there's the whole lay-out, Barney. It's up to you to be my grasping, bargaining, unloving
husband for about an hour."

"I hadn't thought of myself in that part," he objected. "I'd figured that we'd bring in a new
man to be the husband. It's pretty dangerous for me, my stringing Dick along all this while
and then suddenly to enter the act as your husband--and to take the money."

"Dangerous!" There was sudden contempt in her voice and in her eyes. "So you're that kind of
man, Barney--afraid! And afraid after my telling Dick you were my husband, and his swallowing
the thing without a suspicion! Well, right this minute is when we call this deal off--and every
other deal!"

"Oh, don't be so quick with that temper of yours, Maggie! I merely said it was dangerous. Of
course I'll do it."

And then Barney asked, with a cunning he tried to hide: "But why did you ask me to have Old
Jimmie show up here right after me? We don't need him."

"Just what's behind your saying that, Barney?" she demanded sharply.

He squirmed a little, then spoke the truth. "You don't love your father any too much, and he
doesn't love you any too much--I know that. He needn't really know how much we take off Sherwood;
if he wasn't here, he'd have to take our word for what we got and we'd tell him we got mighty
little. Then the real money would be divided fifty-fifty between just you and me."

"I may not love my father, but he's in this on the same basis as you are, or I'm out of it,"
she declared. "I thought you might suggest something like this; that's one reason I asked you
to have him come. Another reason--and this is something I forgot to tell you awhile ago--when
I broke down and confessed everything to Dick Sherwood, I told Dick that Old Jimmie was really
my guardian; and we both agreed that he should be present as a witness to any agreement, and
to protect my interests. Still another reason is that since we had to work so fast, the thing
to do was to split the money on the spot in three ways, and then each of us shoot off in a
different direction to-night before any bad luck had a chance to break. In fact, Barney, this
present minute is when you and I say our good-byes."

He forgot his scheme to defraud Old Jimmie in the far greater concern aroused by her last words.
He leaned across the table and tried to take her hand, an attempt she deftly thwarted.

"But listen, Maggie," he asked with husky eagerness, "you and I are going to have an understanding
to join up with each other soon, aren't we? You know what I mean--belong to each other. You
know how I feel about: you!"

This was the principal point Maggie had been maneuvering toward. Before her was the most difficult
scene of the many which she had planned, on her successful management of which the success
of everything seemed to depend. Within she was palpitant with the strain and suspense of it
all; but on Barney she held cool, appraising eyes. In this splendid composure, her momentary
withdrawal from him, she seemed to Barney more beautiful, more desirable, more indispensable,
than at any time since he had discovered back at the Duchess's that Maggie was a find.

"Of course I know exactly what you mean, Barney," she responded with deliberation, bewitchingly
alluring in her air of superiority. "I've known for a long time you and I would have to have
a real talk. Are you ready for a straight talk now?"

"As straight as you can talk it!"

"I'll probably fall for some man and marry him. Every woman does. But if I marry him, it'll
be because I love him. But my marrying a man doesn't mean I'm going to go into business with
him. I'm not going to mix love with business--not unless the man is the right sort of man.
Of course it would be better if the man I marry and the man I take on as a business partner
were the same man--but I'm not going to take any risks. You understand me so far."

"Surest thing you know. And every word you've said proves that your head isn't just something
to look pretty with. Let me slip this over to you right at the start--I'm the right sort of man!"

"That's exactly what I want to find out," she continued, with her deliberation, with the air
of sitting secure upon the highest level. "I know now what I can do. I've proved it. Now I'm
going right ahead putting over big things. You once told me I had it in me to be the best ever--and
I now know I can be. I know I've got to tie up with a man, and the man has got to be just as
good in his way as I am in mine. Right there's where I'm in doubt about you. I said I was going
to talk straight--and I'm handing it to you straight. I don't know how good you are."

"You mean you think I'm not big enough to work with you?"

"I mean exactly what I said. I said that I didn't really know how good you are, and that I
wasn't going to tie up with any man except the best in the business. You've hinted now and
then at a lot of big things you've put across and how strong you were in certain quarters where
it paid to be strong--but I really know mighty little about you, Barney. This present job hasn't
required you to do anything special, and all the really hard work I've done myself. Of course
I know you are a good dancer, and clever with the ladies, and know how to pick up a sucker
and string him along. But that's everything I do know. And, there are hundreds of men who are
good at these things. The man I tie up with has got to be good at a lot of other things--and
I've got to know he's good!"

"Good at what other things, Maggie?" he asked with suppressed eagerness.

"He's got to be good at putting over all kinds of situations. I don't care how he does it.
So clever at putting things over that no one ever guesses he's the man who did it. And he's
got to be able to give me protection. You know what I mean. A woman in the game I'm going in
for is absolutely through, as far as doing anything big is concerned, the minute she gets a
police record. I've got to have a man who's able to stand between me and the police. And I've
got to know from past performances that the man can do these things. Just large words about
what he can do, or hints about what he has done, don't count for a nickel with me. This is
plain, hard business I'm talking, Barney, and I don't mean to hurt your feelings when I tell
you that you don't measure up in any way to the man I need."

It had been difficult for Barney to hold himself until she had finished. To start with, he
had the vain man's constant itch to tell of his exploits, his dislike for the anonymity of
his cleverness unjustly ascribed to some other man. And then Maggie had played upon him even
more skillfully than she imagined.

"I'm exactly the man you need in every way!" he exploded.

"Those are just words," she said evenly. "I said I had to have something more than mere words."

"I'm ace-high with Chief Barlow!"

"You've got to be more explicit."

Barney was now all excitement. "Don't you get what that means? I've never been locked up once,
and yet I've been pulling stuff all the time! And yet look how Larry Brainard, that the bunch
thought was so clever, got hooked and was sent away. I guess you know the answer!"

"Again, Barney, I've got to ask you to be more explicit."

"Then the answer is that all the while I've been working on an understanding with Barlow. I
guess that's explicit!"

"You mean," she said in her cool voice, "that you've been a stool-pigeon for Barlow?"

"Sure!--though I don't like the word. That's the only safe way of staying steady in the game--an
understanding with the police. All there is to it is now and then to tip the police off about
some dub of a crook: of course you've got to be smooth enough not to let anyone guess your game."

"That doesn't seem to me such a strong talking point in your favor," she said thoughtfully.

"But don't you get the idea? I'm so strong with Barlow that I can get away with anything I
want to. That means I can give you the protection from the police you just spoke about. See?"

"Yes I see." Again she spoke thoughtfully. "But I told you I had to be shown. You must have
done some pretty big things to have got such a standing with Barlow. For example?"

"I could write you a book!" He laughed in his excited pride. "You ask for an example. I could
hardly hold myself in awhile ago when you said you'd practically swung the present deal alone,
and that I'd done almost nothing. Why, Maggie, I did just one smooth little thing without which
there couldn't have been any deal."

"What?"

"You'll admit that nothing would have been safe with Larry Brainard determined to butt in on
what you did?"

"Yes."

"Well, I'm the little guy that fixed Larry Brainard so he wouldn't hurt anyone!"

"You did that?" For the first time Maggie showed what seemed to be a live interest. "How?"

"How? You'll say it was clever when you learn how. And you'll say that I'm the man you want
on that count of being able to put over a situation so that no one will ever guess I'm the
man who did it. You'll admit that putting Larry Brainard out of business, so he'd stay out,
was certainly a stiff job--for though I don't like him, I admit that Larry is one wise bird.
One thing I did was to suggest to Barlow that he force Larry to become a police stool. I knew
Larry would refuse, and I figured out everything else exactly as it has happened. I ask you,
wasn't that putting something clever over?"

"It certainly was clever!" admired Maggie.

"Wait! That's only half. To finish Larry off so that he wouldn't have a chance I had to finish
him off not only with the cops, but also with his pals. So I tipped off Barlow to the game
Red Hannigan and Jack Rosenfeldt were pulling and--"

"Then Larry Brainard really didn't do that?"

"No; I did it! Listen--there's some more to it. I spread the word, so that it seemed to be
a leak from the Police Department, that it was Larry who had squealed on Red Hannigan and Jack
Rosenfeldt. Did his old pals start out to get Larry? Well, now, did they! If I do say it myself,
that was smooth work!"

"It was wonderful!" agreed Maggie.

"And there's still more, Maggie! You remember that charge of stick-up and attempted murder
of a Chicago guy that the police are trying to land Larry on? I put that over! I'm the party
that was messed up in that. I was trying to put over a neat little job all on my own; but something
went wrong just as I thought I was cleaning out the sucker, and I had to be rough with that
Chicago guy in order to make a get-away from him. I beat it straight to Barlow, and said that
right here was the chance to fasten something on Larry. Barlow took my tip. My foot may have
slipped on the original job, but my bean certainly did act quick, and you've got to admit I
turned an apparent failure into something bigger than success would have been. And that's certainly
traveling!"

"It certainly is!"

"And now, Maggie "--Barney pressed her eagerly--"I've shown you I'm just the sort you said
a man had to be for you to tie up with him. I've shown you I can guarantee you police protection.
And I've shown you I'm able to put over clever situations without any one ever guessing I'm
the party who put 'em over. I fit all your specifications! How about our settling right now
to join up some place--Toronto's the best bet--say three days after we make our get-away after
to-night's clean-up? Let's be quick about this, Maggie--before Old Jimmie comes in. He's due
any minute now!"

"Isn't that him at the door now?" breathed Maggie.

Both waited intently for a moment. But though she pretended so, Maggie's interest was not upon
the outer door. Her attention was fixed, as it had been with sickening fear this last minute,
upon that half-inch crack in the closet door behind Barney. Why had she, in her dismayed urgence,
allowed Larry to possess himself of that closet key?--when her plan had been to keep Hannigan
as well as Barlow forcibly behind the scenes until she had acted out her play? She now hoped
almost against hope that Hannigan would not burst forth and ruin what was yet to come. Since
that door unluckily had to be unlocked, her one chance was given her by the presence of Larry.
Perhaps Larry could perceive the larger things she was striving for, and in some way restrain
Hannigan.

These thoughts were but an instant in passing through her brain. Barney's eyes came back from
the outer door to her face. "That's not Old Jimmie yet."

"No," her lips said. But her brain was saying, since the crack still remained a half-inch crack,
"Larry understands--he's holding back Red Hannigan!"

Barney returned swiftly to his charge. "How about Toronto, Maggie--say exactly seventy-two
hours from now--the Royal Brunswick Hotel?"

Maggie realized she could no longer put him off if she were to keep him unsuspicious for the
next hour. Besides, in her desperate disillusionment concerning herself, she did not care what
happened to her, or what people might think of her, if only she could keep this play going
till its final moment.

"Yes," she said--"if we each feel the same way toward each other when this evening's ended."

"Maggie!" he cried. "Maggie!" This time, when he exultantly caught at her hand, she dared not
refuse it to him. And she felt an additional loathing for Barney's caress because she knew
that Larry was a witness to it.

Indeed, it was difficult for Larry, at the sight of Maggie's hand in Barney's too eager palms,
to hold himself in check; and to do this in addition to holding in check the slight, quivering
Red Hannigan, whose collar and whose right wrist he had been gripping these last three minutes.
For Larry, as Maggie had hoped, had dimly apprehended something of Maggie's plan, and he felt
himself bound by the promise she had extracted from him, to let her go through with whatever
she had under way; though he had no conception of her plan's extent, and could, of course,
not know of the intention of her overwrought mind to give her plan its final touch in what
amounted to her own self-destruction, and in her vanishing utterly out of the knowledge of
all who knew her.

Another minute passed; then Larry heard three peculiar rings of the bell of the outer door--an
obvious signal. Maggie answered the summons, and Larry saw Old Jimmie enter. There followed
a rapid and compact conference between the three, the substance of which was the telling of
Old Jimmie of the developments against Dick Sherwood which Maggie had a little earlier recited
to Barney, together with instructions to Old Jimmie concerning his new role as Maggie's guardian.
It seemed to Larry that he caught signs of uneasiness in Jimmie, but to all the older man nodded
his head.

Presently there was a loud ring. "That's Dick!" exclaimed Barney in a whisper. "And mighty
eager, too--shows that by being ahead of the time you set! Let him in, Maggie."

Maggie was startled by the ring, though she did not show it. She thought rapidly. She had definitely
asked Dick to telephone before coming. Why hadn't he telephoned? Perhaps something had happened
to prevent it, or perhaps an idea had come to him by which their plan could be bettered without
a telephone message. In either case, she and Dick might have to improvise and deftly catch
cues tossed to each other, as experienced actors sometimes do without the audience ever knowing
that a hiatus in the play has been skillfully covered.

Maggie stood up. "You both understand what you're to do?"

Both whispered "yes." Larry watched Maggie start across the room, his whole figure quivering
with suspense as to what was going to happen when Dick entered. He was quite sure there was
more here than appeared upon the surface, quite sure that Maggie did not intend that the business
with Dick should work out as she had outlined. What could Maggie possibly be up to? he asked
himself in feverish wonderment, and could find no answer. For of course Larry had no knowledge
of that most important fact: that Maggie had actually made a confession to Dick--not the fraudulent
confession she had told Barney of--but an honest and complete confession, and that in consequence
she and Dick were working in cooperation.

From his crack Larry could not quite see the outer door. But after she opened the door he saw
Maggie fall back with an inarticulate cry, her face suddenly blanched with astounded fright.
And then Larry experienced one of the greatest surprises of his life--a surprise so unnerving
that he almost loosed his hold upon Red Hannigan. For instead of Dick there walked into the
room the tall, white-haired figure of Joe Ellison, and Joe's lean, prison-blanched face was
aquiver with a devastating purpose. How in the name of God had Joe come to be here?--and what
did that terrible look portend?

But Larry's surprise was but an unperturbing emotion compared to the effect of her father's
appearance, with his terrible face, upon Maggie. Life seemed suddenly to go out of her. She
realized that the clever play which she had constructed so rapidly, and upon which she had
counted to clear the tangle for which she was in part responsible, and to bring her back in
time as the seeming fulfillment of the dream of a happy and undisillusioned father--she realized
that her poor, brilliant play had come to an instant end before it was fairly started, and
that the control of events had passed into other hands.

CHAPTER XXXV

At the entrance of Joe Ellison instead of the expected Dick, Barney and Old Jimmie had sprung
up from the table in amazement. Joe strode past Maggie, hardly heeding his daughter, and faced
the two men.

"I guess you know me, Jimmie Carlisle!" said Joe with a terrifying restraint of tone. "The
pal I trusted--the pal I turned everything over to--the pal who double-crossed me in every way!"

"Joe Ellison!" gasped Jimmie, suddenly as ghastly as a dead man. "I--I didn't know you were out."

"I'm out, all right. But I'll probably go in again for what I'm going to do to you! And you
there"--turning on Barney--"you're got up enough like a professional dancer to be the Barney
Palmer I've heard of!"

"What business is it of yours who I am?" Barney tried to bluster. "Perhaps you won't mind introducing
yourself."

"I'm the man who's going to settle with you and Old Jimmie Carlisle! Is that introduction enough.
If not, then I'm Joe Ellison, the father of this girl here you call Maggie Carlisle and Maggie
Cameron, that you two have made into a crook."

"Your daughter!" exclaimed Barney in stupefaction. "Why, she's Jimmie Carlisle's--"

"He's always passed her off as such; that much I've learned. Speak up, Jimmie Carlisle! Whose
daughter is this girl you've turned into a crook?"

"Your daughter, Joe," stammered Old Jimmie. "But about my making her into a crook--you're--you're
all wrong there."

"So she's not a crook, and you didn't make her one?" demanded Joe with the calm of unexploded
dynamite whose fuse is sputtering. "I left you about twelve or fifteen hundred a year to bring
her up on--as a decent, respectable girl. That's twenty-five or thirty a week. If she's not
a crook, how can she on twenty-five a week have all the swell clothes I've seen her in, and
be living in a suite like this that costs from twenty-five to fifty a day? And if she isn't
a crook, why is she mixed up with two such crooks as you? And if she isn't a crook, why is
she in a game to trim young Dick Sherwood?"

The two men started and wilted at these driving questions. "But--but, Joe," stammered Old Jimmie,
"you've gone out of your head. She's not in any such game. She never even heard of any Dick
Sherwood."

"Cut out your lies, Jimmie Carlisle!" Joe ordered harshly. "We've got something more to do
here, the four of us, than to waste any time on lies. And just to prove to you that your lies
will be wasted, I'll lay all my cards face up on the table. Since I got out I've been working
for the Sherwoods. Larry Brainard was working there before me, and got me my job. I've seen
this girl here--my daughter that you've made into a crook--out there twice. Dick Sherwood was
supposed to be in love with her. At the end of this afternoon some officers came to the Sherwoods'
and arrested Larry Brainard. I was working outside, overheard what was happening, and crept
up on the porch. Officer Gavegan, who was in charge, found a painting among Larry Brainard's
things. Miss Sherwood said that it was a picture of Miss Maggie Cameron who had been visiting
there, and I could see that it was. Officer Gavegan said it was a picture of Maggie Carlisle,
daughter of Jimmie Carlisle, and that she was a crook. Larry Brainard, cornered, had to admit
that Gavegan was right. I guessed at once who Maggie Carlisle was, since she was just the age
my girl would have been and since you never had any children. And that's how, Jimmie Carlisle,
standing there outside the window," concluded the terrible voice of Joe Ellison, "I learned
for the first time that the baby I'd trusted with you to be brought up straight, and that I
believed was now happy somewhere as a nice, decent girl, you had really brought up as your
own daughter and trained to be a crook!"

Old Jimmie shrank back from Joe's blazing eyes; his mouth opened spasmodically, but no words
came therefrom. There was stupendous silence in the room. Within the closet, Larry now understood
that low, strange sound he had heard on the Sherwoods' porch and which Gavegan and Hunt had
investigated. It had been the suppressed cry of Joe Ellison when he had learned the truth--the
difference between his dreams and the reality. He could not imagine what that moment had been
to Joe: the swift, unbelievable knowledge that had seemed to be tearing his very being apart.

Larry had an impulse to step out to Joe's side. But just as a little earlier he had felt the
scene had belonged to Maggie, he now felt that this situation, the greatest in Joe's life,
belonged definitely to Joe, was almost sacredly Joe's own property. Also he felt that he was
about to learn many things which had puzzled him. Therefore he held himself back, at the same
time keeping his hold upon Red Hannigan.

During this moment of silence, while Larry was wondering what was going to happen, his eyes
also took in the figure of Maggie, all her powers of action and expression still paralyzed
by appalling consternation. He understood, at least to a degree, what she was going through.
He knew this much of her plan: that she had intended to cut loose in some way from Barney and
Old Jimmie, and that she had intended that her father should continue to cherish the dream
that had been his happiness for so long. And now her father had come upon her in the company
of Barney and Old Jimmie and in a situation whose every superficial circumstance was such as
to make him believe the worst of her!

Joe turned on the smartly dressed Barney. "I'll take you first, you imitation swell, because
I'm saving Jimmie Carlisle to the last!" went on Joe's crunching voice. "I'm going to twist
your damned neck for what you've helped do to my girl, but if you want to say anything first,
say it."

Barney's response was a swift movement of his right hand toward his left armpit. But Barney
Palmer, like almost all his kind, was a very indifferent gunman; and he had no knowledge of
the reputation for masterful quickness that had been Joe Ellison's twenty years earlier. Before
his compact automatic was fairly out of its holster beneath his armpit, it was in Joe Ellison's
hands.

"I sized you up for that kind of rat and was watching you," continued Joe in his same awful
grimness. "I'm not going to shoot you, unless you make me. I'm going to twist that pretty neck
of yours. But first, out with anything you've got to say for yourself!"

"I haven't had anything to do with this business," said Barney, trying to affect a bold manner.

"You lie! I know that in this game against Dick Sherwood, in which you used my girl, you were
the real leader!"

"Well--even if I did use your girl, I only used her the way I found her."

"You lie again! I know how your kind work: cleverly putting crooked ideas into girls' minds,
and exciting their imagination, so they'll work with you. Your case is closed." He turned to
his one-time friend. "What have you got to say for yourself, Jimmie Carlisle?"

Old Jimmie believed that his last hour was come. He showed something of the defiant, almost
maniacal courage of a coward who realizes he can retreat no farther.

"What I got to say, Joe Ellison," he snarled in a sudden rage which bared his yellow teeth,
"is that I'm even with you at last!"

"Even with me? What for?"

"For the way you double-crossed me in nineteen-one in that Gordon business. You never gave
me a dime--said the thing had fallen down--yet I know there was a big haul!"

"I told you the truth. That Gordon thing was a fizzle."

"There's where you're lying! It was a clean-up! And I knew you'd been cheating me out of my
share in other deals!"

"You're absolutely wrong, Jimmie Carlisle. But if you thought that, why didn't you have it
out with me at the time?"

"Because I knew you would lie! You were a better talker than I was, and since our outfit always
sided with you, I knew I wouldn't have a chance then. But I reasoned that if I kept quiet and
kept on being your friend, I'd get my chance to get even if I waited awhile. I waited--and
I certainly got my chance!"

"Go on, Jimmie Carlisle!"

And Old Jimmie went on--a startlingly different Old Jimmie, his pent-up evil now loosed into
quivering, malignant triumph; went on with the feverish exultation of a twisted, perverted
mind that has brooded long over an imagined injustice, that has brooded greedily and long in
private over his revenge, and at last has his chance to gloat in the open.

"When you were sent away, Joe Ellison, and turned over your daughter to me with those orders
about seeing that she was brought up as a decent girl, I began to see the big chance I'd been
waiting for. I asked myself, What is the dearest thing in the world to Joe Ellison? The answer
was, this idea he'd got about his girl. I asked myself, What is the biggest way I can get even
with Joe Ellison? The answer was, to make Joe Ellison believe all the time he's in stir that
his girl is growing up the way he wants her to be and yet to bring her up the exact thing he
didn't want her to be. And that's exactly what I did!"

"You--did--such a thing?" breathed Joe Ellison, almost incredulous.

"That's exactly what I did!" Old Jimmie went on, gloatingly. "It was easy. No one knew you
had a daughter, so I passed her off as my own baby by a marriage I'd not told any one about.
I saw that she always lived among crooks, looked at things the way crooks do, and grew up with
no other thought than to be a crook. I never had an idea of using her myself, till she began
to look like such a good performer this last year; and then my idea, no matter what Barney
Palmer may have planned, was to use her only in a couple of stunts. My main idea always was,
when you came out with your grand idea of what your girl had grown up to be, for you suddenly
to see your girl, and know her as your girl, and know her to be a crook. That smash to you
was the big thing to me--what I'd planned for, and waited for. I didn't expect the blow-off
to come like this; I didn't expect to be caught in it when it did happen. But since it has
happened, well--There's your daughter, Joe Ellison! Look at her! Look at what I've made her!
I guess I'm even all right!"

"My God!" breathed Joe Ellison, staring at the lean face twisting with triumphant malignancy.
"I didn't think there could be such a man!"

He slowly turned upon Maggie. This was the first direct recognition he had taken of her since
his entrance.

"I don't suppose you can guess what your being what you are has meant to me," he began in a
numbed tone which grew accusingly harsh as he continued. "But I'd think that a daughter of
mine, with such a mother, would have had more instinctive sense than to have gone into such
a game with such a pair of crooks!"

"It's true--I have been what you think me--I did go into this thing against Dick Sherwood,"
Maggie responded in a voice that at first was faltering, then that stumbled rapidly on in her
eagerness to pour out all the facts. "But--but Larry Brainard had kept after me--and finally
he made me see how wrong I was headed. And then, this afternoon, before I spoke to you, Larry
told me that you were my real father. When I learned the truth--how I had been cheated out
of being something else--how I was the exact opposite of what you had wanted me to be and believed
me to be--I felt about it almost exactly as you feel about it. I--I made up my mind to clear
up at once all the wrong I was responsible for--and then disappear in such a way that you'd
never have your dream of me spoiled. And so--and so this afternoon, after I left Cedar Crest,
I confessed the whole truth to Dick Sherwood--about our plan to cheat him. And like the really
splendid fellow he is, Dick Sherwood offered to help me set straight the things I wanted to
set straight. Particularly to clear Larry Brainard. And so my being here as you find me is
part of a plan between Dick Sherwood and myself. It's really a frame-up. A frame-up to catch
Barney Palmer and Jimmie Carlisle."

"A frame-up!" ejaculated these two in startled unison.

"How a frame-up?" demanded her father, no bit of the accusing harshness gone out of his voice.

"Our plan against Dick Sherwood was to have him propose to me, then for me to confess that
I was really married to a mean sort of man I didn't love--the idea being that Dick would be
infatuated enough to pay a big sum to a dummy husband, and the three of us would disappear
as soon as we got Dick's money. Dick offered to go through with the plan as Barney Palmer and
Jimmie Carlisle had shaped it up--go through with it to-night--and then after money had passed,
we'd have a criminal case against them. By reminding him that Larry Brainard knew just what
we were up to, and might spoil everything if we didn't act at once, I got Barney Palmer worked
up to the point where he was going to pose as my husband and take the money. Dick Sherwood
was to come a little later, after he'd first telephoned me, with a big roll of marked money."

There were stuttered exclamations from Barney and Old Jimmie, which were cut off by the dominant
incisiveness of Joe Ellison's words to his daughter:

"I think you're lying to me! Besides, even if you're telling the truth, it's a pretty way you've
taken to clear things up! Don't you see that by letting Dick Sherwood come here and play such
a part, you'd be dead sure to involve him and his family in a dirty police story that the papers
of the whole country would play up as a sensation? It's plain to any one that that's no way
a person who wanted to square things would use Dick Sherwood. And that's why I think you're lying!"

"I had thought of that--you're right," said Maggie. "And so I wasn't going to do it. He was
going to telephone me--just about this time--and when he called up I was going to fake his
message. I was going to tell Barney Palmer and Old Jimmie that Dick had just telephoned he
wasn't coming, because one of the two had just sold him a tip for ten thousand dollars that
this was a crooked game. I thought this would have started a quarrel between the two; they
are suspicious of each other, anyhow. Each would have accused the other, and in their quarrel
they would have been likely to have let out a lot of truth that would have completely given
each other away."

"Not a bad plan at all," commented Joe Ellison. He tried to peer deep into his daughter for
a moment, his inflamed face relaxing neither in its harshness nor its doubt of her. "But since
you are the clever crook I actually know you to be from your work on Dick Sherwood, and since
Jimmie Carlisle says he has trained you to be a crook, I believe that everything you've told
me is just something you've cleverly invented on the spur of the moment--just so many lies."

"But--but--"

She broke off before the harsh, accusing doubt of his pale face. For a fraction of a moment
no one spoke. Then the telephone bell began to ring.

"Dick!" breathed Maggie, and started for the telephone.

"Stay right where you are!" her father ordered. "I'll answer that telephone myself, and see
whether you're lying to me about Dick Sherwood!... No, we'll do this together. I'll hold the
receiver and hear what he says. You'll do the talking and you'll answer just what I tell you
to, and you'll keep your hand tight over the mouthpiece while I'm giving you your orders. You
two"--to Barney and Old Jimmie, with a significant movement of Barney's automatic--"you'd better
behave while this telephone business is going on."

The next moment Larry was hearing, or rather witnessing, the strangest telephone conversation
of his experience. Maggie was holding the transmitter, and Joe had the receiver at his ears,
grimly covering the two men with the automatic. Maggie obediently kept her palm tight over
the mouthpiece during Joe's brief whispered directions, and no one in the room except Joe,
not even Maggie, had the slightest idea of what was really passing over the wires.

What Larry heard was no more than a dozen most commonplace words in the world, transformed
into the most absorbing words in the language. Joe ordered Maggie to answer with "hello" in
her usual tone, which she did, and Joe, after a startled expression at the first words that
came over the wire, listened with immobile face for four or five seconds. Then he nodded imperatively
to Maggie and she put her hand over the mouthpiece.

"Ask him how much, and when he wanted it to be paid," he ordered.

"How much, and when does he want it to be paid?" repeated Maggie.

Again Joe listened for several moments; and then ordered as before: "Say 'Yes.'"

"Yes," said Maggie.

Another period of waiting, and Joe ordered: "Say, 'I've got a much better plan that supersedes
the old.'"

"I've got a much better plan that supersedes the old."

There was yet another period of waiting, then Joe commanded: "Tell him he really mustn't and
say good-bye quick."

"You really mustn't! Good-bye!"

The instant her "Good-bye" was out of her mouth Joe clicked the receiver upon its hook, and
stood regarding the breathless Maggie. His pale, stern face was not quite so severe as before.
Presently he spoke: "I know now that you really were sick of what you'd been trying to do--that
you'd really broken away from these two--that you'd really confessed to Dick, and are now all
square with him."

The word "Father!" struggled chokingly toward her lips. But she only said:

"I'm glad--you know."

"And you were shrewd in that guess you made of what one of these two would do." Joe crossed
back to Barney and Old Jimmie. "You two must have been almighty afraid, because of Larry Brainard,
that your game was suddenly collapsing, and each must have been trying to grab a piece for
himself before he ran away."

"What you talking about?" gruffly demanded Barney.

"Perhaps I'm talking about you. But more particularly about Jimmie Carlisle. For just now Dick
Sherwood said when he telephoned, that an hour or two ago Jimmie Carlisle had hunted him up,
had hinted that he was going to lose a lot of money unless he was properly advised, and offered
to give him certain valuable information for five thousand cash."

Barney turned upon his partner. "You damned thief!" he snarled, tensed as if about to spring
upon the other.

Old Jimmie, turned greenishly pale, shrank away from Barney, his every expression proclaiming
his guilt. Then Maggie again found her voice:

"And at about the same time Barney was trying to double-cross Jimmie Carlisle, Barney proposed
to me that, after we'd got Dick Sherwood's money, we'd tell Jimmie Carlisle we'd got very little,
and divide the real money fifty-fifty between just us two."

"You damned thief!" snarled Old Jimmie back at his partner.

The next moment Barney and Old Jimmie were upon each other, striking wildly, clawing. But the
moment after Joe Ellison, his repressed rage now unloosed, and with the super-strength of his
supreme fury, had torn the two apart.

"You don't do that to each other--that job belongs to me!" he cried. His right arm flung Barney
backward so that Barney went staggering over himself and sprawled upon the floor. Joe gripped
Old Jimmie's collar, and his right hand painfully twisted Jimmie's arm. "And I finish you off
first, Jimmie Carlisle, for what you've done to me and my girl! But for Larry Brainard you,
Jimmie Carlisle, would have succeeded in your scheme to make my girl a crook! I'd like to give
you a thousand years of agony, you damned rat--but that's beyond me!" His right hand shifted
swiftly from Old Jimmie's arm to his throat. "But I'm going to choke your rat's life out of
you!--your lying, sneaking devil's life out of you!"

Old Jimmie squirmed and twisted with those long fingers clamped mercilessly around his throat,
his eyes rolling, and his mouth gaping with voiceless cries. He was indeed being shaken as
a rat might be shaken.

"Don't!--Don't!" cried the frantic Maggie, and started to seize her father to pull him away.
But she was halted by her arm being caught by Barney.

"Let Jimmie have it!" he said fiercely to her, and flung her to the farthest corner of the
room. And grimly exultant over what seemed to be Old Jimmie's doom, he started for the door
to make his own escape.

Up to the moment of Joe Ellison's eruption Larry had felt bound to remain a mere spectator
where he was: long as the time had seemed to him, it had in fact been less than half an hour.
He had felt bound at first by his promise to Maggie to let her work out her plan; and bound
later by his sense that this situation belonged to Joe Ellison. But now this swift crisis dissolved
all such obligations. He sprang from his closet to take his part in the drama that was so swiftly
unfolding.

CHAPTER XXXVI

Larry caught and whirled around Barney Palmer just as the hand of the escaping Barney was on
the knob of the outer door.

"No, you don't, Barney Palmer!" he cried. "You stay right here!"

Startled as Barney was by this appearance of his dearest enemy, he wasted no precious time
on mere words. He swung a vicious blow at Larry, intended to remove this barrier to his freedom.
But the experienced Larry let it glance off his forearm, and with the need of an instantaneous
conclusion he sent a terrific right to Barney's chin. Barney staggered back, fell in a crumpled
heap, and lay motionless.

Sparing only the fraction of a second to see that Barney was momentarily out of it, Larry sprang
upon Joe Ellison and tried to break the deadly grips Joe held upon Old Jimmie.

"Stop, Joe--stop!" he cried peremptorily. "Your killing Jimmie Carlisle isn't going to help
things!"

Without relaxing his holds, Joe turned upon this interferer.

"Larry Brainard! How'd you come in here?"

"I've been here all the time. But, Joe--don't kill Jimmie Carlisle!"

"You keep out--this is my business!" Joe fiercely replied. "If you've been here all the time,
then you know what he's done to me, and what he's done to my girl! You know he deserves to
have his neck twisted off--and I'm going to twist it off!"

Larry perceived that Joe's sense of tremendous injury had made him for the moment a madman
in his rage. Only the most powerful appeal had a chance to bring him back to sanity.

"Listen, Joe--listen!" he cried desperately, straining to hold back the other's furious strength
from its destructive purpose. "After what's happened, every one is bound to know that Maggie
is your daughter! Understand that, Joe?--every one will know that Maggie is your daughter!
It's not going to help you to be charged with murder. And think of this, Joe--what's it going
to do to your daughter to have her father a murderer?"

"What's that?" Joe Ellison asked dazedly.

Larry saw that his point had penetrated to the other's reason. So he drove on, repeating what
he had said.

"Understand this, Joe?--every one will now know that Maggie is your daughter! You simply can't
prevent their knowing that now! Remember how for over fifteen years you've been trying to do
the best you could for her! Do you now want to do the worst thing you can do? The worst thing
you can do for Maggie is to make her father a murderer!"

"I guess that's right Larry," he said huskily. "Thanks."

He pushed the half-strangled Jimmie Carlisle away from him. "You'll get yours in some other
way!" he said grimly.

Old Jimmie, staggering, caught the back of a chair for support. He tenderly felt his throat
and blinked at Larry and Joe and Maggie. He did not try to say anything. In the meantime Barney
had recovered consciousness, had struggled up, and was standing near Old Jimmie. Their recognition
that they were sharers of defeat had served to restore something of the sense of alliance between
the two.

"Well, anyhow, Larry Brainard," snarled Barney, "you haven't had anything to do with putting
this across!"

It was Joe Ellison who replied. "Larry Brainard has had everything to do with putting this
across. He's been beating you all the time from the very beginning, though you may not have
known it. And though he's seemed to be out of things for the last few hours, he's been the
actual power behind everything that's happened up to this minute. So don't fool yourself--Larry
Brainard has beaten you out at every point!"

A sense of triumph glowed within Larry at this. There had been a time when he had wanted the
animal satisfaction which would have come from his giving violent physical punishment to these
two--particularly to Barney. But he had no desire now for such empty vengeance.

"Well, I guess you've got nothing on me," Barney growled at them, "so I'll be moving along.
Better come, too, Jimmie."

While he spoke a figure had moved from Larry's closet with the silence of a swift shadow. It's
thin hand gripped Barney's shoulder.

"I guess I've got something on you!" it said.

Barney whirled. "Red Hannigan!" he gasped.

"Yes, Red Hannigan!--you stool--you squealer!" said Red Hannigan. "I heard you brag about being
Barlow's stool, and I heard everything else you bragged about to Joe Ellison's girl. I'd bump
you off right now if I had my gat with me and if I had any chance at a get-away. But I'll be
looking after you, and the gang will be looking after you, till you die--the same as you set
us after Larry Brainard! No matter what else happens to you, you'll always have that as something
extra waiting for you! And when the time comes, we'll get you!"

As silently as he had appeared from the closet, as silently he let himself out of the room.
The glowering features of Barney had faded to a pasty white while Hannigan had spoken, and
now the hand which tried to bring a handkerchief to his lips shook so that he could hardly
find his face. For none knew so well as Barney Palmer how inescapable was this thing which
would be hanging over him until the end of his days.

Before any one in the room could speak there came a loud pounding from within the door of the
closet Larry and Red Hannigan had not occupied. "Oh, I'd completely forgotten!" exclaimed Maggie--and
indeed she had forgotten all that was not immediately connected with the situation created
by her father's unexpected entrance. She crossed and unlocked the door, and Barlow stepped out.

"Chief Barlow!" exclaimed the astonished Larry, and all the other men gazed at the Chief of
Detectives with an equal surprise.

"He is part of my frame-up," Maggie explained at large. "I wanted both the police and Larry's
old friends to know the truth at first hand--and clear him before I went away."

"Wasn't that Red Hannigan who just spoke?" were Barlow's first words.

"Yes," said Larry.

Barney, and Old Jimmie as well, had perked up at the appearance of Barlow, as though at aid
which had come just in time. But Barlow turned upon Barney a cold police eye.

"I heard you brag that you were my stool. That's a lie."

"Why--why--Chief--" Barney stammered. He had counted upon help here, where there had existed
mutually advantageous relations for so long.

"I heard you say you had my protection. That's another lie. You've squealed on a few people,
but I've never given you a thing."

Barney gasped at this. He knew, as every one in the room also knew, that Barlow was lying.
But Barlow held all the cards. Rough and ruthless police politician that he was, he made it
his business always to hold the highest cards. As sick of soul as a man can be, Barney realized
that Barlow was doing exactly what Barlow always did--was swinging to the side that had the
most evidence and that would prove most advantageous to him. And Barney realized that he was
suffering the appointed fate of all stool-pigeons who are found out by their fellow criminals
to be stool-pigeons. Such informers are of no further use, and according to the police code
they must be given punishment so severe as to dissipate any unhealthy belief on the public's
part that there could ever have been any alliance between the two.

"I've used this young lady who seems to have been Jimmie Carlisle's daughter and now seems
to be the daughter of this old-timer Joe Ellison, for a little private sleuthing on my own
hook," Barlow went on--for it was the instinct of the man to claim the conception and leadership
of any idea in whose development he had a part. He spoke in a brusque tone--as why should he
not, since he was addressing an audience he lumped together as just so many crooks? "Through
this little stunt I pulled to-night, I've got on to your curves, Barney Palmer. And yours,
too, Jimmie Carlisle. And I'm going to run the pair of you in."

This was too much for Barney Palmer. Even though he knew that his position as a stool, who
was known to be a stool, was without hope whatever, he went utterly to pieces.

"For God's sake, Chief," he burst out frantically, "you're not going to treat me like that!
You could get me out of this easy! Think of all I've done for you! For God's sake, Chief--for
God's sake--"

"Shut up!" ordered Barlow, doubling a big fist.

Chokingly Barney obeyed. Old Jimmie, coward though he was, and lacking entirely Barney's quality
of a bravo, had accepted the situation with the twitching calm of one to whom the worst has
often happened. "Shut up," repeated Barlow, "and get it fixed in your beans that I'm going
to run you two in."

"Run them in because of this Sherwood affair?" asked Larry.

"Surest thing you know. I've got all the evidence I seed."

"But--" Larry was beginning protestingly, when the doorbell rang again. Maggie opened the door,
and there entered Miss Sherwood, with Hunt just behind her, and Dick just behind him, and Casey
and Gavegan following these three. All in the room were surprised at this invasion with the
sole exception of Joe Ellison.

"When Mr. Dick spoke over the 'phone about your coming," he said to Miss Sherwood, "I asked
you not to do it."

Barlow was prompt to speak, and the sudden change in his voice would have been amazing to those
who do not know how the little great men of the Police Department, and other little great men,
can alter their tones. He had recognized Miss Sherwood at once, as would any one else at all
acquainted with influential New York.

"Miss Sherwood, I believe," he said, essaying a slight bow.

"Yes. Though I fear I have not the pleasure of knowing you."

"Deputy Barlow, head of the Detective Bureau of the Police Department," he informed her. "Entirely
at your service."

"Just what is going on here?" she queried. "I know a part of what has happened"--she was addressing
herself particularly to Maggie and Larry--"for Dick telephoned me about seven, and I came right
into town. He told me everything he knew--which threw a different light on a lot of events--and
Dick telephoned at about nine that I was coming over. But something more seems to have happened."

"Miss Sherwood, it's like--" began Barlow.

"Just a second, Chief," Larry interrupted. Larry knew what a sensational story this would be
as it had developed--and he knew in advance just how it would be seized upon and played up
by the newspapers. And Larry did not want unpleasant publicity for his friends (three in that
room were trying to make a fresh start in life), nor for those who had been his friends. "Chief,
do you want to make an arrest on a charge which will involve every person in this room in a
sensational story? Of course I know most of us here don't weigh anything with you. But why
drag Miss Sherwood, who is innocent in every way, into a criminal story that will serve to
cheapen her and every decent person involved? Besides, it can only be a conspiracy charge,
and there's more than a probability that you can't prove your case. So why make an arrest that
will drag in Miss Sherwood?"

Barlow had a mind which functioned with amazing rapidity on matters pertaining to his own interest.
He realized on the instant how it might count for him in the future if he were in a position
to ask a favor of a person of Miss Sherwood's standing; and he spoke without hesitation:

"I don't know anything about this Sherwood matter. If anyone ever asks me, they'll not get a word."

There was swift relief on the faces of Barney and Old Jimmie; to be instantly dispelled by
Chief Barlow's next statement which followed his last with only a pause for breath:

"The main thing we want is to stick these two crooks away." He turned on Barney and Old Jimmie.
"I've just learned you two fellows are the birds I want for that Gregory stock business. I've
got you for fair on that. It'll hold you a hundred times tighter than any conspiracy charge.
Casey, Gavegan--hustle these two crooks out of here."

The next moment Casey and Gavegan had handcuffs on the prisoners and were leading them out.

"Good for you, Larry," Casey whispered warmly as he went by with Barney. "I knew you were going
to win out, though it might be an extra-inning game!"

At the door Barlow paused. "I hope I've done everything all right, Miss Sherwood?"

"Yes--as far as I know, Mr. Barlow."

Again Barlow started out, and again turned. "And you, Brainard," he said, rather grudgingly,
"I guess you needn't worry any about that charge against you. It'll be dropped."

And with that Barlow followed his men and his prisoners out of the room.

Then for a moment there was silence. As Larry saw and felt that moment, it was a moment so
large that words would only make a faltering failure in trying to express it. He himself was
suddenly free of all clouds and all dangers. He had succeeded in what he had been trying to
do with Maggie. A father and a daughter were meeting, with each knowing their relationship,
for the first time. There was so much to be said, among all of them, that could only be said
as souls relaxed and got acquainted with each other.

It was so strained, so stupendous a moment that it would quickly have become awkward and anti-climacteric
but for the tact of Miss Sherwood.

"Mr. Brainard," she began, in her smiling, direct manner, with a touch of brisk commonplace
in it which helped relieve the tension, "I want to apologize to you for the way I treated you
late this afternoon. As I said, I've just had a talk with Dick and he's told me everything--except
some things we may all have to tell each other later. I was entirely in the wrong, and you
were entirely in the right. And the way you've handled things seems to have given Dick just
that shock which you said he needed to awaken him to be the man it's in him to be. I'm sure
we all congratulate you."

She gave Larry no chance to respond. She knew the danger, in such an emotional crisis as this,
of any let-up. So she went right on in her brisk tone of ingratiating authority.

"I guess we've all been through too much to talk. You are all coming right home with me. Mr.
Brainard and Mr. Ellison live there, I'm their boss, and they've got to come. And you've got
to come, Miss Ellison, if you don't want to offend me. I won't take 'no.' Besides, your place
is near your father. Wear what you have on; in a half a minute you can put enough in a bag
to last until to-morrow. To-morrow we'll send in for the rest of your things--whatever you
want--and send a note to your Miss Grierson, paying her off. You and your father will have
my car," she concluded, "Mr. Brainard and Dick will ride in Dick's car, and Mr. Hunt will take me."

And as she ordered, so was it.

For fifteen minutes--perhaps half an hour--after it rolled away from the Grantham Hotel there
was absolute stillness in Miss Sherwood's limousine, which she had assigned to Maggie and her
father. Maggie was near emotional collapse from what she had been through; and now she was
sitting tight in one corner, away from the dark shadow in the other corner that was her newly
discovered father who had cared for her so much that he had sought to erase from her mind all
knowledge of his existence. She wanted to say something--do something; she was torn with a
poignant hunger. But she was so filled with pulsing desires and fears that she was impotent
to express any of the million things within her.

And so they rode on, dark shadows, almost half the width of the deeply cushioned seat between
them. Thus they had ridden along Jackson Avenue, almost into Flushing, when the silence was
broken by the first words of the journey. They were husky words, yearning and afraid of their
own sound, and were spoken by Maggie's father.

"I--I don't know what to call you. Will--will Maggie do?"

"Yes," she whispered.

"I'm--I'm not much," the husky voice ventured on; "but what you said about going away--for
my sake--do you think you need to do it?"

"I've made--such a mess of myself," she choked out.

"Other people were to blame," he said. "And out of it all, I think you're going to be what--what
I dreamed you were. And--and--"

There was another stifling silence. "Yes?" she prompted.

"I wanted to keep out of your life--for your sake," he went on in his strained, suppressed
voice. "But--but if you're not ashamed of me now that you know all"--in the darkness his groping
hand closed upon hers--"I wish you wouldn't--go away from me, Maggie."

And then the surging, incoherent thing in her that bad been struggling to say itself this last
half-hour, suddenly found its voice in a single word:

"Father!" she cried, and flung her arms around his neck.

"Maggie!" he sobbed, crushing her to him.

All the way to Cedar Crest they said not another word; just clung to each other in the darkness,
sobbing--the first miraculous embrace of a father and daughter who had each found that which
they had never expected to have.

CHAPTER XXXVII

It was ten the next morning at Cedar Crest, and Larry Brainard sat in his study mechanically
going over his figures and plans for the Sherwood housing project.

For Larry the storms of the past few weeks, and the whirlwind of last night, had cleared away.
There was quiet in the house, and through the open windows he could glimpse the broad lawn
almost singing in its sun-gladdened greenness, and farther on he could glimpse the Sound gleaming
placidly. Once for perhaps ten minutes he had seen the overalled and straw-hatted figure of
Joe Ellison busy as usual among the flowers. He had strained his eyes for a glimpse of Maggie,
but he had looked in vain.

Despite all that had come to pass at the Grantham the previous evening, Larry was just now
feeling restless and rather forlorn. His breakfast had been brought to him in his room, and
he had not seen a single member of last night's party at the Grantham since they had all divided
up according to Miss Sherwood's orders and driven away; that is he had really seen no one except
Dick.

Dick had gripped his hand when he had slipped in beside Dick in the low seat of the roadster.
"You're all right, Captain Nemo!--only I'm going to be so brash as to call you Larry after
this," Dick had said. "If you'll let me, you and I are going to be buddies."

He was all right, Dick was. Dick Sherwood was a thoroughbred.

And there was another matter which had pleased him. The Duchess had called him up that morning,
had congratulated him in terms so brief that they sounded perfunctory, but which Larry realized
had all his grandmother's heart in them, and had said she wanted him to take over the care
of all her houses--those she had put up as bail for him. When could he come in to see her about
this?... He understood this dusty-seeming, stooped, inarticulate grandmother of his as he had
not before. Considering what her life had been, she also was a brick.

But notwithstanding all this, Larry was lonely--hungrily lonely--and was very much in doubt.
Miss Sherwood had spoken to him fair enough the night before--yet he really did not know just
how he stood with her. And then--Maggie. That was what meant most to him just now. True, Maggie
had emerged safe through perils without and within; and to get her through to some such safety
as now was hers had been his chief concern these many months. He wanted to see her, to speak
to her. But he did not know what her attitude toward him would now be. He did not know how
to go about finding her. He was not even certain where she had spent the night. He wanted to
see her, yet was apulse with fear of seeing her. She would not be hostile, he knew that much;
but she might not love him; and at the best a meeting would be awkward, with so wide a gap
in their lives to be bridged....

He was brooding thus when there was a loud knocking at his door. Without waiting for his invitation
to enter, the door was flung open, and Hunt strode in leaving the door wide behind him. His
face was just one great, excited grin. He gave Larry a thump upon the back, which almost knocked
Larry over, and then pulled him back to equilibrium by seizing a hand in both of his, and then
almost shook it off.

"Larry, my son," exploded the big painter, "I've just done it! And I did it just as you ordered
me to! Forgot that Miss Sherwood and I had had a falling out, and as per your orders I walked
straight up to her and asked her. And Larry, you son-of-a-gun, you were right! She said 'yes'!"

"You're lucky, old man!" exclaimed Larry, warmly returning the painter's grip.

"And, Larry, that's not all. You told me I had the clearness of vision of a cold boiled lobster--said
I was the greatest fool that ever had brains enough not to paint with the wrong end of an umbrella.
Paid me some little compliment like that."

"Something like that," Larry agreed.

"Well, Larry, old son, you were right again! I've been a worse fool than all you said. Been
blinder than one of those varnished skulls some tough-stomached people use for paper-weights.
After she'd said 'yes' she gave me the inside story of why we had fallen out. And guess why
it was?"

"You don't want me to guess. You want to tell me. So go to it."

"Larry, we men will never know how clever women really are!" Hunt shook his head with impressive
emphasis. "Nor how they understand our natures--the clever women--nor how well they know how
to handle us. She confessed that our quarrel was, on her part, carefully planned from the beginning
with a definite result in view. She told me she'd always believed me a great painter, if I'd
only break loose from the pretty things people wanted and paid me so much for. The trouble,
as she saw it, was to get me to cut loose from so much easy money and devote myself entirely
to real stuff. The only way she could see was for her to tell me I couldn't paint anything
worth while, and tell it so straight-out as to make me believe that she believed it--and thus
make me so mad that I'd chuck everything and go off to prove to her that I damned well could
paint! I certainly got sore--I ducked out of sight, swearing I'd show her--and, oh, well, you
know the rest! Tell me now, can you think of anything cleverer than the way she handled me?"

"It's just about what I would expect of Miss Sherwood," Larry commented.

