"He is gone!" he answered, "and it was more my fault than his--mine and Mrs. Sefton's. Whatever
wrong he has done it was for her. Remember that, Madame, and you, Phebe Marlowe. If anything
happens, remember it's my fault more than his, and Mrs. Sefton's fault more than mine."

"Tell me what you mean," urged Madame breathlessly.

"You'll know when Mr. Sefton returns, Madame," he answered, with a sudden return to his usually
calm tone and manner, which was as startling as his former vehemence had been; "he'll explain
all when he comes home. We must open the bank now; it is striking ten."

He locked the desk and passed out of the comfortably-furnished parlor into the office beyond,
leaving them nothing to do but to return into the house with their curiosity unsatisfied, and
the mother's vague trouble unsoothed.

"Phebe, Phebe!" cried Felix, as they slowly re-entered the pleasant home, "my mother says we
may go up the river to the osier island; and, oh, Phebe, she will go with us her own self!"

He had run down the broad staircase to meet them, almost breathless with delight, and with
eyes shining with almost serious rapture. He clasped Phebe's arm, and, leaning toward her,
whispered into her ear,

"She took me in her arms, and said, 'I love you, Felix,' and then she kissed me as if she meant
it, Phebe. It was better than all my birthday presents put together. My father said to me one
day he adored her; and I adore her. She is my mother, you know--the mother of me, Felix; and
I lie down on the floor and kiss her feet every day, only she does not know it. When she looks
at me her eyes seem to go through me; but, oh, she does not look at me often."

"She is so different; not like most people," answered Phebe, with her arms round the boy.

Madame had gone on sadly enough up-stairs to see if she could find out anything about her son;
and Phebe and Felix had turned into the terraced garden where the boat-house was built close
under the bank of the river.

"I should be sorry for my mother to be like other people," said Felix proudly. "She is like
the evening star, my father says, and I always look out at night to see if it is shining. You
know, Phebe, when we row her up the river, my father and me, we keep quite quiet, only nodding
at one another which way to pull, and she sits silent with eyes that shine like stars. We would
not speak for anything, not one little word, lest we should disturb her. My father says she
is a great genius; not at all like other people, and worth thousands and thousands of common
women. But I don't think you are a common woman, Phebe," he added, lifting up his eager face
to hers, as if afraid of hurting her feelings, "and my father does not think so, I know."

"Your father has known me all my life, and has always been my best friend," said Phebe, with
a pleasant smile. "But I am a working-woman, Felix, and your mother is a lady and a great genius.
It is God who has ordered it so."

She would have laughed if she had been less simple-hearted than she was, at the anxious care
with which the boy arranged the boat for his mother. No cushions were soft enough and no shawls
warm enough for the precious guest. When at length all was ready, and he fetched her himself
from the house, it was not until she was comfortably seated in the low seat, with a well-padded
sloping back, against which she could recline at ease, and with a soft, warm shawl wrapped
round her--not till then did the slight cloud of care pass away from his face, and the little
pucker of anxiety which knitted his brows grow smooth. The little girl of five, Hilda, nestled
down by her mother, and Felix took his post at the helm. In unbroken silence they pushed off
into the middle of the stream, the boat rowed easily by Phebe's strong young arms. So silent
were they all that they could hear the rustling of the young leaves on the trees, under whose
shadows they passed, and the joyous singing of the larks in the meadows on each side of the
sunny reaches of water, down which they floated. It was not until they landed the children
on the osier island, and bade them run about to play, and not then until they were some distance
away, that their merry young voices were heard.

"Phebe," said Felicita, in her low-toned, softly-modulated voice, always languid and deliberate,
"talk to me. Tell me how you spend your life."

Phebe was sitting face to face with her, balancing the boat with the oars against the swift
flowing of the river, with smiles coming and going on her face as rapidly as the shadows and
the sunshine chasing each other over the fields this May morning.

"You know," she answered simply, "we live a mile away from the nearest house, and that is only
a cottage where an old farm laborer lives with his wife. It's very lonesome up there on the
hills. Days and days go by, and I never hear a voice speaking, and I feel as if I could not
bear the sound of my own voice when I call the cattle home, or the fowls to come for their
corn. If it wasn't for the living things around me, that know me as well as they know one another,
and love me more, I should feel sometimes as if I was dead. And I long so to hear somebody
speak--to be near more of my fellow-creatures. Why, when I touch the hand of any one I love--yours,
or Mr. Sefton's, or Madame's--it's almost a pain to me; it seems to bring me so close to you.
I always feel as if I became a part of father when I touch him. Oh, you do not know what it
is to be alone!"

"No," said Felicita, sighing; "never have I been alone, and I would give worlds to be as free
as you are. You cannot imagine what it is," she went on, speaking rapidly and with intense
eagerness, "never to belong to yourself, or to be alone; for it is not being alone to have
only four thin walls separating you from a husband and children and a large busy household.
'What are you thinking, my darling?' Roland is always asking me; and the children break in
upon me. Body, soul, and spirit, I am held down a captive; I have been in bondage all my life.
I have never even thought as I should think if I could be free."

"But I cannot understand that," cried Phebe. "I could never be too near those I love. I should
like to live in a large house, with many people all smiling and talking around me. And everybody
worships you."

She uttered the last words shyly, partly afraid of bringing a frown on the lovely face opposite
to her, which was quickly losing its vivid expression and sinking back into statuesque coldness.

"It is simply weariness to me and vexation of spirit," she answered. "If I could be quite alone,
as you are, with only a father like yours, I think I could get free; but I have never been
left alone from my babyhood; just as Felix and Hilda are never left alone. Oh, Phebe, you do
not know how happy you are."

"No," she said cheerfully, "sometimes when I stand at our garden-gate, and look round me for
miles and miles away, and the sweet air blows past me, and the bees are humming, and the birds
calling to one another, and everything is so peaceful, with father happy over his work not
far off, I think I don't know how happy I am. I try to catch hold of the feeling and keep it,
but it slips away somehow. Only I thank God I am happy."

"I was never happy enough to thank God," Felicita murmured, lying back in her seat and shutting
her eyes. Presently the children returned, and, after another silent row, slower and more toilsome,
as it was up the river, they drew near home again, and saw Madame's anxious face watching for
them over the low garden wall. Her heart had been too heavy for her to join them in their pleasure-taking,
and it was no lighter now.

CHAPTER IV.

UPFOLD FARM.

Phebe rode slowly homeward in the dusk of the evening, her brain too busy with the varied events
of the day for her to be in any haste to reach the end. For the last four miles her road lay
in long by-lanes, shady with high hedgerows and trees which grew less frequent and more stunted
as she rose gradually higher up the long spurs of the hills, whose rounded outlines showed
dark against the clear orange tint of the western sky. She could hear the brown cattle chewing
the cud, and the bleating of some solitary sheep on the open moor, calling to the flock from
which it had strayed during the daytime, with the angry yelping of a dog in answer to its cry
from some distant farm-yard. The air was fresh and chilly with dew, and the low wind, which
only lifted the branches of the trees a little in the lower land she had left, was growing
keener, and would blow sharply enough across the unsheltered table-land she was reaching. But
still she loitered, letting her rough pony snatch tufts of fresh grass from the banks, and
shamble leisurely along as he strayed from one side of the road to another.

Phebe was not so much thinking as pondering in a confused and unconnected manner over all the
circumstances of the day, when suddenly the tall figure of a man rose from under the black
hedgerow, and laid his arm across the pony's neck, with his face turned up to her. Her heart
throbbed quickly, but not altogether with terror.

"Mr. Roland!" she cried.

"You know me in the dark then," he answered. "I have been watching for you all day, Phebe.
You come from home?"

She knew he meant his home, not hers.

"Yes, it was Felix's birthday, and we have been down the river," she said.

"Is anything known yet?" he asked.

Though it was so solitary a spot that Phebe had passed no one for the last three miles, and
he had been haunting the hills all day without seeing a soul, yet he spoke in a whisper, as
if fearful of betraying himself.

"Only that you are away," she replied; "and they think you are in London."

"Is not Mr. Clifford come?" he asked.

"No, sir, he comes to-morrow," she answered.

"Thank God!" he exclaimed, in a louder tone. When he spoke again he did so without looking
into her face, which indeed was scarcely visible in the deepening dusk.

"Phebe," he said, "we have known each other for many years."

"All my life, sir," she responded eagerly; "father and me, we are proud of knowing you."

Before speaking again he led her pony up the steep lane to a gate which opened on the moorland.
It was not so dark here, from under the hedgerows and trees, and a little pool beside the gate
caught the last lingering light in the west, and reflected it like a dim and dusty mirror.
They could see one another's faces; his was working with strong excitement, and hers, earnest
and friendly, looked frankly down upon him. He clasped her hand with the strong, desperate
grip of a sinking man, and her fingers responded with a warm clasp.

"Can I trust you, Phebe?" he cried. "I have no other chance."

"I will help you, even to dying for you and yours," she answered. The girlish fervor of her
manner struck him mournfully. Why should he burden her with his crime? What right had he to
demand any sacrifice from her? Yet he felt she spoke the truth. Phebe Marlowe would rejoice
in helping, even unto death, not only him, but any other fellow-creature who was sinking under
sorrow or sin.

"Come on home," she said, "it is bitterly cold here; and you can tell me what to do."

He placed himself at the pony's head again, and trudged on speechlessly along the rough road,
which was now nothing more than the tracks made by cart-wheels across the moor, with deep ruts
over which he stumbled like a man who is worn out with fatigue. In a quarter of an hour the
low cottage was reached, surrounded by a little belt of fields and a few storm-beaten fir-trees.
There was a dull glow of red to be seen through the lattice window, telling Phebe of a smouldering
fire, made up for her by her father before going back to his workshop at the end of the field
behind the house. She stirred up the wood-ashes and threw upon them some dry, light fagots
of gorse, and in a few seconds a dazzling light filled the little room from end to end. It
was a familiar place to Roland Sefton, and he took no notice of it. But it was a curious interior.
Every niche of the walls was covered with carved oak; no wainscoted hall in the country could
be more richly or more fancifully decorated. The chimney-piece over the open hearth-stone,
a wide chimney-piece, was deeply carved with curious devices. The doors and window-frames,
the cupboards and the shelves for the crockery, were all of dark oak, fashioned into leaves
and ferns, with birds on their nests, and timid rabbits, and still more timid wood-mice peeping
out of their coverts, cocks crowing with uplifted crest, and chickens nestling under the hen-mother's
wings, sheaves of corn, and tall, club-headed bulrushes--all the objects familiar to a country
life. The dancing light played upon them, and shone also upon Roland Sefton's sad and weary
face. Phebe drew her father's carved arm-chair close to the fire.

"Sit down," she said, "and let me get you something to eat."

"Yes," he answered, sinking down wearily in the chair, "I am nearly dying of hunger. Good Heavens!
is it possible I can be hungry?"

He spoke with an indescribable expression of mingled astonishment and dread. Suddenly there
broke upon him the possibility of suffering want in many forms in the future, and yet he felt
ashamed of foreseeing them in this, the first day of his great calamity. Until this moment
he had been too absorbed in dwelling upon the moral and social consequences of his crime, to
realize how utterly worn out he was; but all his physical strength appeared to collapse in
an instant.

And now for the first time Phebe beheld the change in him, and stood gazing at him in mute
surprise and sorrow. He had always been careful of his personal appearance, with a refinement
and daintiness which had grown especially fastidious since his marriage. But now his coat,
wet through during the night, and dried only by the keen air of the hills, was creased and
soiled, and his boots were thickly covered with mud and clay. His face and hands were unwashed,
and his hair hung unbrushed over his forehead. Phebe's whole heart was stirred at this pitiful
change, and she laid her hand on his shoulder with a timid but affectionate touch.

"Mr. Roland," she said, "go up-stairs and put yourself to rights a little; and give me your
clothes and your boots to brush. You'll feel better when you are more like yourself."

He smiled faintly as he looked up at her quivering lips and eyes full of unshed tears. But
her homely advice was good, and he was glad to follow it. Her little room above was lined with
richly carved oak panels like the kitchen below, and a bookcase contained her books, many of
which he had himself given to her. There was an easel standing under the highest part of the
shelving roof, where a sky-light was let into the thatch, and a half-finished painting rested
on it. But he did not give a glance toward it. There was very little interest to him just now
in Phebe's pursuits, though she owed most of them to him.

By the time he was ready to go down, supper was waiting for him on the warm and bright hearth,
and he fell upon it almost ravenously. It was twenty-four hours since he had last eaten. Phebe
sat almost out of sight in the shadow of a large settle, with her knitting in her hand, and
her eyes only seeking his face when any movement seemed to indicate that she could serve him
in some way. But in these brief glances she noticed the color coming back to his face, and
new vigor and resolution changing his whole aspect.

"And now," he said, when his hunger was satisfied, "I can talk to you, Phebe."

CHAPTER V.

A CONFESSION.

But Roland Sefton sat silent, with his shapely hands resting on his knees, and his handsome
face turned toward the hearth, where the logs had burned down and emitted only a low and fitful
flame. The little room was scarcely lighted by it, and looked all the darker for the blackness
of the small uncurtained window, through which the ebony face of night was peering in. This
bare, uncovered casement troubled him, and from time to time he turned his eyes uneasily toward
it. But what need could there be of a curtain, when they were a mile away from any habitation,
and where no road crossed the moor, except the rugged green pathway, worn into deep ruts by
old Marlowe's own wagon? Yet as if touched by some vague sympathy with him, Phebe rose, and
pinned one of her large rough working-aprons across it.

"Phebe," he said, as she stepped softly back to her seat, "you and I have been friends a long
time; and your father and I have been friends all my life. Do you recollect me staying here
a whole week when I was a school-boy?"

"Yes," she answered, her eyes glistening in the dusky light; "but for you I should have known
nothing, only what work had to be done for father. You taught me my alphabet that week, and
the hymns I have said every night since then before I go to sleep. You helped me to teach myself
painting; and if I ever paint a picture worth looking at it will be your doing."

"No, no; you are a born artist, Phebe Marlowe," he said, "though perhaps the world may never
know it. But being such friends as you say, I will trust you. Do you think me worthy of trust,
true and honest as a man should be, Phebe?"

"As true and honest as the day," she cried, with eager emphasis.

"And a Christian?" he added, in a lower voice.

"Yes," she answered, "I do not know a Christian if you are not one."

"That is the sting of it," he groaned; "true, and honest, and a Christian! And yet, Phebe,
if I were taken by the police to-night, or if I be taken by them to-morrow, I shall be lodged
in Riversborough jail, and tried before a jury of my towns-people at the assizes next month."

"No, it is impossible!" she cried, stretching out her brown, hard-working hand, and laying
it on his white and shapely one, which had never known toil.

"You would not send me to jail," he said, "I know that well enough. But I deserve it, my poor
girl. They would find me guilty and sentence me to a convict prison. I saw Dartmoor prison
on my wedding journey with Felicita, Heaven help me! She liked the wild, solitary moor, with
its great tors and its desolate stillness, and one day we went near to the prison. Those grim
walls seemed to take possession of me; I felt oppressed and crushed by them. I could not forget
them for days after, even with Felicita by my side."

His voice trembled as he spoke, and a quiver ran through his whole frame, which seemed to thrill
through Phebe's; but she only pressed her pitiful hand more closely on his.

"I might have escaped last night," he went on, "but I stumbled over a poor girl in the street,
dying. A young girl, no older than you, without a penny or a friend; a sinner too like myself;
and I could not leave her there alone. Only in finding help for her I lost my chance. The train
to London was gone, and there was no other till ten this morning. I expected Mr. Clifford to
be at the bank to-day; if I had only known he would not be there I could have got away then.
But I came here, why I hardly know. You could not hide me for long if you would; but there
was no one else to help me."

"But what have you done, sir?" she asked, with a tremulous, long-drawn sigh.

"Done?" he repeated; "ay! there's the question. I wonder if I can be honest and true now with
only Phebe Marlowe listening. I could have told my mother, perhaps, if it had been of any use;
but I would die rather than tell Felicita. Done, Phebe! I've appropriated securities trusted
to my keeping, pledging some and selling others for my own use. I've stolen £10,000."

"And you could be sent to prison for it?" she said, in a low voice, glancing uneasily round
as if she fancied she would be overheard.

"For I don't know how many years," he answered.

"It would kill Mrs. Sefton," she said. "Oh! how could you do it?"

"It was for Felicita I did it," he replied absently; "for my Felicita only."

For a few minutes Phebe's brain was busy, but not yet with the most sorrowful thoughts. There
could be no shadow of doubt in her mind that this dearest friend of hers, sitting beside her
in the twilight, was guilty of the crime he had confessed. But she could not as yet dwell upon
the crime. He was in imminent peril; and his peril threatened the welfare of nearly all whom
she loved. Ruin and infamy for him meant ruin and infamy for them all. She must save him if
possible.

"Phebe," he said, breaking the dreary silence, "I ought to tell you one thing more. The money
your father left with me--the savings of his life--six hundred pounds--it is all gone. He intrusted
it to me, and made his will, appointing me your guardian; such confidence he had in me. I have
made both him and you penniless."

"I think nothing of that," she answered. "What should I ever have been but for you? A dull,
ignorant country girl, living a life little higher than my sheep and cattle. We are rich enough,
my father and me. This cottage, and the fields about it, are our own. But I must go and tell
father."

"Must he be told?" asked Roland Sefton anxiously.

"We've no secrets," she replied; "and there's no fear of him, you know. He would see if I was
in trouble; and I shall be in trouble," she added, in a sorrowful voice.

She opened the cottage door, and going out left him alone. It was a familiar place to him;
but hitherto it had been only the haunt of happy holidays, from the time when he had been a
school-boy until his last autumn's shooting of grouse and woodcock on the wide moors. Old Marlowe
had been one of his earliest friends, and Phebe had been something like a humble younger sister
to him. If any one in the world could be depended upon to help him, outside his own family,
it must be old Marlowe and his daughter.

And yet, when she left him, his first impulse was to rise and flee while yet there was time--before
old Marlowe knew his secret. Phebe was a girl, living as girls do, in a region of sentiment
and feeling, hardly understanding a crime against property. A girl like her had no idea of
what his responsibility and his guilt were, money ranking so low in her estimate of life. But
old Marlowe would look at it quite differently. His own careful earnings, scraped together
by untiring industry and ceaseless self-denial, were lost--stolen by the man he had trusted
implicitly. For Roland Sefton did not spare himself any reproaches; he did not attempt to hide
or palliate his sin. There were other securities for small sums, like old Marlowe's, gone like
his, and ruin would overtake half a dozen poor families, though the bulk of the loss would
fall upon his senior partner, who was a hard man, of unbending sternness and integrity. If
old Marlowe proved a man of the same inflexible stamp, he was lost.

