Crimson clover is much relished by farm animals, whether used as pasture, soiling food, silage
or hay. Under some conditions it may be pastured autumn and spring, and even through much of
the winter. As a soiling plant, its value is high, not only because it is a legume, but because
it comes in season at a time when it may be fed with winter rye used as soiling. But the period
is short during which it furnishes soiling food. Its value as hay will always be lessened by
the difficulty in curing it so early in the season, and because of the danger from feeding
it to horses when cut at a too advanced stage of growth. It is much in favor for furnishing
chicken pasture in winter.

As a catch crop crimson clover may be made to do duty in seasons in which other clover crops
may have failed. As a cover crop or a mulch for orchards, it is in high favor, as the growth
which it produces protects the roots of the same. But its greatest use lies in the beneficial
influence which it exerts upon soils by enriching them and also improving their mechanical
condition. It is likely, therefore, to be grown more for this purpose than for any other. While
growing it in many instances will not render unnecessary the use of commercial fertilizers,
it will greatly reduce the quantity of these that would otherwise be necessary. Owing to the
season at which it is grown, it will be found quite helpful in destroying weeds.

The behavior of crimson clover has thus far been somewhat erratic, even in areas where the
conditions are looked upon as generally favorable to its growth. The opinions of practical
men differ much with reference to its value. There have been many instances of success and
failure in the same locality, and even in the experience of the same individual. These varied
experiences are doubtless due in a considerable degree to a difference in seasons, to want
of acclimation in the seed sown, to a difference in varieties and to want of knowledge on the
part of the growers, whose work, heretofore, has been largely tentative. Five different varieties
have been grown, and these have not shown equal degrees of hardiness. But the rapidly increasing
sales of seed point to the conclusion that larger areas are being sown every year. The increase
referred to may be expected to grow greater for many years to come; since, when the needs of
the plant are better understood, the failures will be fewer.

=Distribution.=--Crimson clover is probably indigenous to certain parts of Europe, especially
to the countries that lie southwest and south. It has been grown to a considerable extent in
France, Germany and Italy. The name Egyptian would seem also to imply that it is grown in Egypt.
It is not grown to any considerable extent north and west in Europe, owing, probably, to the
too severe conditions of climate which characterize these. It is not indigenous to America,
but was probably introduced from Europe two or three decades ago. Its late introduction accounts
for the fact that its adaptation in some parts of the United States is as yet controverted.

This plant needs a climate rather mild and decidedly moist. It cannot withstand severe freezing
when the ground is bare; hence, its uniformly successful growth cannot be relied on very far
north of the Ohio and Potomac rivers. True, in certain winters of much snowfall it has come
through in good form considerably north of the rivers mentioned, but in more instances it has
failed. On the other hand, while it grows best in warm climates, the growth in these is made
chiefly when the weather is cool, as in the autumn and spring, and in some instances in the
winter. It would be about correct to say that the climatic adaptation of this plant is nearly
the same as that of the peach. Climates too cold for fruitage in the latter would be too cold
for the uniformly safe wintering of crimson clover. It would also seem correct to state that
on suitable soils and with sufficient precipitation, this clover will do best in the United
States when the climate is too warm for the medium red clover to grow at its best. In the United
States, soil and climatic conditions taken together, would probably give Delaware, New Jersey,
Maryland, Virginia and Tennessee highest adaptation for the growth of this plant. Taking in
a wide area, highest adaptation would lie in the States south of the Potomac and Ohio rivers
and east of the Mississippi. Washington and Oregon, west to the Cascade Mountains, would probably
furnish exceptions, but in these the necessity for growing crimson clover is not likely to
be so great as in the area just referred to, owing to the ease with which other varieties of
clover may be grown. In some parts of New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan many farmers
have succeeded well in growing crimson clover, but a larger number have failed. The failures
have arisen largely through dry weather in the autumn, want of plant food in the soil and the
severity of the winter weather. Westward from these States to the Mississippi, the adaptation
is still lower, and the same is true of the New England States. In fact, it is so low in these
that it is far more likely that it will fail than that it will succeed. Between the Mississippi
and the Cascade Mountains, crimson clover is not likely to be much grown. It will not grow
well in any part of the semi-arid belt. In the mountain valleys it would probably succeed,
but in these alfalfa and some other varieties of clover will give far better returns.

Crimson clover will not grow well in any part of Canada, except in that narrow strip of land
between the Rocky Mountains and the Pacific. The winter climate is too cold for it. Some crops
have been grown successfully in the peach-producing areas of Ontario contiguous to Lakes Erie
and Ontario, but even in these it is an uncertain crop. The attempt has been made to grow it
in some of the provinces of Canada, and in several of the States, by sowing the seed in the
spring. Some fairly good crops have been thus obtained, but usually not so good as can be grown
by sowing certain other varieties of clover at the same season. It is but reasonable to expect,
however, that adaptation in growing crimson clover will widen with the acclimation of the plant,
and with increasing knowledge as to its needs on the part of those who grow it.

=Soils.=--Crimson clover though usually grown for the enrichment of soils will not, as a rule,
make satisfactory growth on soils very low in the elements of fertility, whatsoever may be
their composition or texture. On orchard lands liberally fertilized, in the Middle Atlantic
States, excellent crops have been obtained, whereas on adjacent soils precisely similar they
have failed. In the Southern States, however, better results, relatively, will be obtained
from sowing this clover on comparatively infertile lands, owing to the longer season which
it has for continuous growth. Where the winters are possessed of considerable severity and
when the protection of snow is more or less wanting, unless the plants are strong when they
enter the winter, they are almost certain to perish. Loam soils with reasonably porous subsoils
are best adapted to its growth. Of these, sandy loams have a higher adaptation than clay loams,
when equal to the former in fertility, as in the latter the plants can more quickly gather
the needed food supplies, since the roots and rootlets can penetrate them more readily. Such
soils are well adapted to the growth of orchards, especially peach orchards, and it is in such
areas that crimson clover has been grown with highest success. In the alfalfa soils of the
Rocky Mountain valleys it should also grow well, but on these it would be less profitable to
grow than alfalfa, because of the permanency of the alfalfa. Even on sandy soils a good growth
will be obtained when these have been fertilized and sufficient moisture is present. On stiff
clays the growth is too slow to produce crops highly satisfactory either North or South, and
in dry weather it is also difficult to obtain a stand of the plants. The alluvial soils of
river bottoms in the South produce good crops. The vegetable soils of the prairie do not grow
the plants very well, and the adaptation in slough or swamp soils is even lower. Good crops
will not be obtained on soils underlaid with hardpan which comes up near the surface, whatsoever
the nature of the top soil may be, since the roots cannot penetrate these.

=Place in the Rotation.=--It cannot be said of crimson clover, in the ordinary usage of the
word, that it is a rotation plant. It has probably no fixed place in any regular rotation,
and yet it can be used almost anywhere in the rotation that may be desired, and in any rotation
whether long or short, regular or irregular. As previously intimated, it is usually grown as
a catch crop, and primarily to fertilize the land; and since its growth is chiefly or entirely
made in the late summer, autumn, winter and early spring, that is to say, when the land is
not otherwise occupied, the only hindrances to using it anywhere in the rotation are such as
arise from the nature of the weather, the mechanical condition of the land and the needs of
the crops that are to follow. For instance, at the usual season for sowing it, the weather
may be so dry as to preclude the hope of successful germination in the seed. This influence
may also make it impossible to bring the land into that mechanical condition which makes a
good seed-bed without undue labor, and ordinarily it would not be necessary to have crimson
clover precede another leguminous crop; since the latter, under many conditions, can secure
its own supply of nitrogen. To this there may be some exceptions. There may be instances, as
on light, porous and leechy soils, when it might be proper to grow crimson clover as an aid
in securing a stand of the medium red variety, or in growing a crop of peas for the summer
market. Ordinarily, however, this crop is grown to increase the supply of plant food in the
soil for crops which require nitrogen, and to give soils more or less porous, increased power
to hold moisture and applied fertilizers. It is probably seldom grown to improve the mechanical
condition of stiff soils, since on these it grows slowly. Some other plants can do this more
effectively. It is pre-eminently the catch crop for the orchardist and the market gardener,
and yet it may be made the catch crop also of the farmer, under certain conditions.

Crimson clover may be made to follow any crop, but it is seldom necessary to have it follow
another leguminous crop which has brought nitrogen to the soil. Nor is it usually sown after
a grass crop which has brought humus to the land. It is frequently sown after small cereal
grain crops that have been harvested. It may be made to follow any of these. Sometimes it is
sown in standing corn. But oftener than anywhere else probably, it is sown in orchards and
on soils from which early potatoes and garden vegetables have been removed.

It is peculiarly fitted for being grown in orchards. In these it may be grown from year to
year. It may be thus grown not only to gather nitrogen for the trees, but to make them more
clean than they would otherwise be when the fruit is being gathered, to protect the roots of
the trees in winter and to aid in the retention of moisture when plowed under. But this plant
may also, with peculiar fitness, be made to precede late garden crops. It may be plowed under
sufficiently early to admit of this, and when so buried it aids in making a fine seed-bed,
since the roots promote friability in the land. When grown under what may be termed strictly
farm conditions, it usually precedes a cultivated crop, as potatoes, corn, or one of the sorghums.
It is equally suitable in fitting the soil for the growth of vine crops, such as melons, squashes
and pumpkins.

But in some localities this crop may be grown so as to break down the lines of old-time rotations,
since in some instances it may be successfully grown from year to year for several years without
change. Potatoes and sweet corn, for instance, may be thus grown.

=Preparing the Soil.=--In preparing the seed-bed for crimson clover, the aim should be to secure
fineness of pulverization near the surface and moistness in the same. The former is greatly
important, because of the aid which it renders in securing the latter at a season when moisture
is often lacking in the soil. As it is rather grown on soils deficient in humus than on those
plentifully supplied with the same, fineness in the seed-bed is not so important as it is with
some classes of prairie soils.

In starting the seed, drought is the chief hindrance to be overcome in the North, owing to
the season at which the seed must be sown; hence, the aim should be to begin preparing the
seed-bed as long as possible before the sowing of the seed. The preparation called for will
be influenced by the kind of soil, the crop last grown upon it and also the weather; hence,
the process of preparing the seed-bed will vary. The judgment must determine whether the land
should be plowed, or disked and pulverized, or simply harrowed. After potatoes and other garden
crops, harrowing may suffice; after certain grain crops on soils not too stiff, disking may
suffice; but where much trash is to be buried, plowing would be necessary, and when the ground
is at all cloddy, the roller should be freely used. In corn fields the last cultivation will
make a suitable seed-bed, and the same is sometimes true in cotton fields.

To grow good crops of crimson clover, it is necessary that there shall be a considerable amount
of plant food in the soil that is readily available. Farmyard manure when it can be spared
or secured will supply the need. But the results will probably be more satisfactory where the
manure has been applied to the previous crop, as, for instance, to potatoes or corn, and for
the reason, probably, that in the relatively dry season at which the seed of this plant is
sown, the residue of the manure still in the soil is more readily available than freshly applied
manure would be. Good crops have been grown on land thus manured, when at the same time seed
sown on land under similar conditions and similar in other respects failed to give satisfactory
yields.

In a majority of instances farmyard manure cannot be spared for such a use. When it cannot,
if necessary, commercial fertilizers may be applied. Those rich in phosphoric acid and potash
are usually most needed, but sometimes nitrogen also is necessary. When nitrogen is used, it
may be best applied on the growing crop and while it is young. Phosphoric acid and potash may
be fitly applied when the land is being prepared, and in a way that will incorporate them with
the surface soil. These may be used in the form of wood ashes, bone meal, Thomas' slag, Kainit,
sulphate or muriate of potash, South Carolina rock and acid phosphate. Acid phosphate and muriate
of potash stand high in favor with some growers when applied in the proportions of 9 and 1
parts and at the rate of, say, 200 pounds more or less per acre.

=Sowing.=--The date for sowing crimson clover would seem to depend more upon latitude than
upon any other influence. North of the Ohio River it should seldom be sown later than September
1st, lest the growth of the plants should not be strong enough to endure the winter weather.
Nor should it be sown earlier than July 1st, lest the plants should reach the blooming stage
without having made a sufficient growth, an objection which applies to sowing earlier than
July 1st in any part of the United States. All things considered, August is the most favorable
month for sowing the seed north of the Ohio and Potomac rivers. In the South, sowing at a later
period is preferable. In the latitude of Tennessee, September would usually prove more suitable
for sowing than an earlier date, and near the Gulf, October. But it may be sown earlier and
later in these respective latitudes. It is a good time to sow the seed in much of the South
when the autumn rains begin to come, and the same is true of the Puget Sound country.

The seed may be sown by hand, by the aid of hand machines, by some makes of grain drills in
the same way as grain is sown, and by others with a grass-seeder attachment. When sown by the
latter, the seed should usually be allowed to fall before the grain tubes to aid in securing
a covering for it; the covering thus provided should be supplemented by additional harrowing
and in some instances rolling. When sown by hand or by hand machines on soils East and South,
the roller should in many instances follow and then the harrow, but on cloddy surfaces the
harrow should be used first and then the roller. No method of sowing the seed is more satisfactory
than that which sows it by grain drills, which can deposit it in the soil as grain is sown,
as it is then buried at an even depth. Sowing to a medium depth, say, 1/2 to 1-1/2 inches,
is preferable to either extreme.

Whether it is advisable to sow a nurse crop will depend upon conditions. When the seed is sown
early, in hot weather the young plants are helped by more or less of shade. Such shade is usually
provided by the other factor or factors of the mixture. But when shade only is wanted from
the nurse crop, a thin seeding of buckwheat has been found to answer. Melons and tomatoes have
in some instances furnished shade satisfactorily, and in others upright growing varieties of
cow peas or soy beans. The less complete the preparation of the seed-bed, the greater also
is the necessity for shade. In orchards the shade of the trees is usually ample, and in some
instances excessive. The same is true of vigorous corn and cotton crops.

Whether this clover should be sown alone or in mixtures will also depend upon conditions. If
the crop is wanted solely for the enrichment of the land, it will usually be better to sow
it alone, as crops other than legumes do not bring as much fertility to the land. As a rule,
therefore, it should be sown alone in orchards. It should also, usually, be sown alone for
soiling crops and for hay, but in some instances for both uses it may be sown with such crops
as winter oats or winter vetches. On some soils, however, these will too much crowd the clover
plants. On others the reverse will be true. For seed the crop should, of course, always be
sown alone.

For pasture, crimson clover is sometimes sown with rape, winter rye, winter oats, the common
vetch or the sand vetch. When sown with rape, the date of the sowing should be early. With
the other crops named the most suitable date for sowing the clover will usually prove the most
suitable also for sowing these.

When sown alone, from 10 to 20 pounds of seed are used per acre. With all the conditions favorable,
12 to 15 pounds should suffice. When sown with rape for pasture, 3 pounds of rape and 10 of
the clover, or even a less quantity, should be enough. When sown with winter rye or winter
oats, about 1 bushel of each and 10 pounds of clover should suffice, and when sown with the
common or the sand vetch, 1/2 bushel of either and 10 pounds of the clover should be enough.
When sown in the chaff, from 2 to 3 bushels ought to suffice, but the amount required will
be much affected by the character of the seed crop.

=Pasturing.=--Crimson clover may be pastured in the autumn or in the spring or at both seasons,
either when sown alone, or in conjunction with some other pasture crops, as winter rye, oats,
barley or vetches. But it is not probable that it will ever become so popular as some other
pasture plants that grow during the same seasons of the year; since, first, when it is grown,
it is usually wanted for green manure; second, it does not under some conditions grow satisfactorily
with other crops; and third, when grazed down in the autumn the covering thus removed renders
the plants much more liable to perish in the winter. When, however, it is sown early in the
season, as in July, along with Dwarf Essex rape, or even alone, much grazing may be furnished,
even though the clover should not survive the winter.

It may be grazed by horses, mules, cattle, sheep or swine, but when grazed with cattle and
sheep, it is probable that some danger from hoven or bloat will be present, as when grazing
other kinds of clover. (See page 94.) This danger, however, will be lessened, if not entirely
removed, when nurse crops are grown with the clover, except in the case of rape. The grazing
should not begin when the plants are small, lest the growth should be too much hindered at
a season when growth is critical.

=Harvesting for Hay.=--Crimson clover is ready to be cut for hay when coming into, and a little
before it is in, fullest bloom. Some authorities claim that it should be harvested when the
blooms begin to appear. It should certainly not be allowed to pass the stage of full bloom,
lest the hay when cured should prove hurtful to horses and possibly to other live stock, because
of the presence of hair balls, which are then liable to form from the hairs so numerously found
on this plant. These balls produce death by forming an impermeable wedge in the intestines
of horses, thereby impeding and in some instances totally arresting the process of digestion.
These balls, almost circular in form, are composed of minute and rather stiff hairs, and several
have been found in one animal. These hairs, numerous on the heads; do not stiffen sooner than
the period of full bloom; hence, until that stage is reached in the growth of the plants, the
danger from feeding cured hay made from them does not occur.

In New Jersey and the neighboring States, crimson clover is ready for being cut sometimes in
May earlier or later, as the season is early or late. Further South it is fit to harvest earlier.
At that season it is not easily cured, since then rains are more frequent than in the ordinary
harvest season and the weather is less drying. Consequently, hay caps may frequently be used
with much advantage by the growers of this hay. (See page 98.)

It is harvested as other clover; that is, it is cut with the field mower, raked when wilted,
put up into cocks, and left to stand in these until it has gone through the sweating process,
when the cocks are opened out again on a bright day for a few hours prior to drawing them.
The tedder should be used freely in getting the hay ready to rake, as at that season of the
year it dries slowly.

=Securing Seed.=--Crimson clover does not ripen quite so quickly after flowering as common
red clover, owing, in part, at least, to the less intense character of the heat and drying
influences at the season when it matures. Nevertheless, when it is ripe, unless it is cut with
much promptness, the seed will shed much from the heads, and the heads will break off much
during the curing process. If cut even two or three days too soon, the seeds will not be large
and plump. Moreover, showery or muggy weather will soon greatly injure the crop. One or two
days of such weather after the crop has been cut will stain the seed; two or three days of
the same will cause much of the seed to sprout, and three or four days will practically ruin
the crop.

Because of the ease with which the seed sheds off the heads, it is better to cut the seed crop
while it is a little damp, or at least to refrain from cutting during the greatest heat of
the day. In some instances it is cut with the mower and raked early or late in the day, put
up in small cocks and threshed from these in four or five days after being cut. But this method
of harvesting, however carefully done, is attended with much loss of seed. It is better to
harvest with the self-rake reaper, the rakes being so adjusted that the hay will be dropped
off in small gavels or sheaves, so small that in two or three days they may be lifted without
being turned over; Much care should be exercised in lifting the sheaves to avoid shedding in
the seed, and it should be drawn on wagons with tight racks.

While it is not absolutely necessary to thresh the seed crop at once, the work can usually
be done at that time with less outlay and with less loss of seed. It is threshed with a huller
or with a grain separator with suitable attachments. Some attention must be given to the arrangement
of the teeth used in the machine, lest many of the seeds, which are large; should be split;
and as it is not easy to separate the seeds from the haulms, specially made riddles and sieves
must needs be used.

The seed crop is usually harvested in June north of the Ohio and Potomac rivers, and southward
from these in the month of May. The yield of seed runs all the way from 10 bushels per acre
downwards. The average crop is 4 to 5 bushels.

=Renewing.=--Since crimson clover is an annual, but little can be done in the sense of renewing
it on the same land without breaking the ground. But in orchards, it is sometimes grown from
year to year by what may be termed a process of self-seeding. When the seed is not quite ripe
in the heads, or even somewhat earlier, the orchard is plowed so as to leave some of the heads
standing up along the line of the furrow. When these have matured, the land is harrowed, which
scatters the seeds in the chaff, and from these another crop is produced. But to this plan
there is the objection that it allows the clover to draw too heavily on the moisture in the
soil before it is plowed under.

=Facts Regarding Crimson Clover.=--1. When crimson clover is sown so early in the season that
it has at least three to four months in which to grow before winter sets in, the benefits to
the land from sowing the seed will usually more than pay for the seed and labor, even though
it should not survive the winter.

2. Prominent among the causes of failure where crimson clover does not succeed are: (a) The
seed fails to germinate because of the want of moisture, or having germinated the young plants
are killed by heat or drought; (b) they perish in the winter from exposure to cold winds or
frosts, or by alternate freezing and thawing in the soil; or (c) the land is too low in fertility
to produce a sufficiently vigorous growth in the plants.

3. The mechanical effects upon the soil from growing crimson clover on it are very marked,
especially when it inclines to stiffness, owing to the strong development of the root growth.

4. When crimson clover has been sown in the spring, a reasonably good growth is usually obtained
before midsummer, even as far north as the Canadian boundary line, but since hot weather checks
further growth and frequently causes wilting in the plants, this variety is not equal to some
of the other varieties of clover for being sown at that season.

5. In the Southern States, crimson clover has been found to render considerable service by
aiding in preventing land from washing in the winter season.

6. When plowed under in orchards, the work should be done at an early rather than a late stage
in the growth of the plants, lest it should rob the trees of their rightful share of the moisture.
Because of this, in some instances, if not in all, the plants should be buried before the season
of full bloom and sometimes before the blooms begin to open.

7. The seed is more certain to germinate while yet enclosed in the chaff scales, and because
of this, where home-grown seed is used, it may be worth while to secure it in this form by
flailing out the seed or treading it out with horses.

CHAPTER VIII

WHITE CLOVER

White Clover (Trifolium repens) is also called Dutch, White Dutch, White Trefoil, Creeping
Trifolium and Honeysuckle clover. The name Dutch clover has doubtless been applied to it because
of the extent to which it is in evidence in the pastures and meadows of Holland; the name Creeping
Trifolium, because of the creeping character of the stems, which, under favorable conditions,
send roots down into the soil; and Honeysuckle clover, because of the honey supplies which
it furnishes for bees. It is one of the plants known as Shamrock, the national emblem of Ireland.

White clover is perennial, the stems of which creep along the ground and, as above intimated,
root at the joints; so that from this source plants are indefinitely multiplied. They also
come from the seed. The leaves are small and very numerous, and with the exception of the flower
stems and flowers, furnish all the forage obtained. The flowers are very numerous, especially
when showery weather precedes and accompanies the flowering season. They are large for the
size of the plant, are supported by a leafless stem of considerable length, and are white or
tinted with a delicate rose color. The roots are numerous and fibrous. They cannot go down
into the soil so deeply as the larger clovers; hence, the dwarfing effect of dry seasons upon
the growth.

This plant is exceedingly hardy. It comes out from under the snow with a green tint, and the
leaves are not easily injured by the frosts of autumn. The growth is not rapid until the general
late rains of spring fall freely. It then pushes on rapidly, and, sending up innumerable flower
stems, turns the pastures in which it abounds into immense flower gardens in the months of
May and June, according to the latitude of the locality. The bloom remains out for a considerable
time, and free grazing has the effect of prolonging the period of bloom. Under such conditions,
blossoms continue to form and mature seeds during much of the summer. When these escape being
grazed, they fall down upon the land and aid in forming additional plants. Hence it is that
when white clover has once possessed a soil, it so stores the land with seed possessed of so
much vitality that subsequently white clover plants grow, as it were, spontaneously on these
lands when they have been thus grazed even for a limited term of years.

The power of this useful plant to travel and possess the land is only equalled by that of blue
grass. When timber lands are cleared, white clover plants soon appear, and in a few years will
spread over the whole surface of the land. But the amount of grazing furnished by it varies
greatly with the character of the season. Some seasons its bloom is scarcely in evidence; other
seasons it overspreads the pastures.

While it is an excellent pasture plant for stock, they do not relish it so highly as some other
pasture plants; when forming seed, it is least valuable for horses, owing to the extent to
which it salivates them. Its diminutive habit of growth unfits it for making meadows, unless
in conjunction with other hay plants. In nutritive properties, it is placed ahead of medium
red clover. Some growers have spoken highly of it as a pasture plant for swine.

