
It was my only alternative; and, hiring a special messenger, I sent him off with my passport,
and a petition craving permission to enter "the States," addressed to the Pontifical Legation
at Ferrara. Meanwhile, I had a gendarme to take care of me.

To while away the time, I sallied out, and sauntered along the banks of the river. It was now
full day: and the cheerful light, and the noble face of the Po,--here a superb stream, equal
almost to the Rhine at Cologne,--rolling on to the Adriatic, chased away my pensiveness. The
river here flows between lofty embankments,--the adjoining lands being below its level, and
reminding one of Holland; and were any extraordinary inundation to happen among the Alps, and
force the embankments of the Po, the territory around Ferrara, if not also that city itself,
would infallibly be drowned. A few lighters and small craft, lifting their sails to the morning
sun, were floating down the current; and here and there on the banks was a white villa,--the
remains of that noble setting of palaces which adorned the Po when the House of D'Este vied
in wealth and splendour with the larger courts of Europe. Prisoners must have breakfast; and
I found a poor café in the little village, where I got a cup of coffee and an egg,--the latter
unboiled, by the way; and discussed my meal in presence of the gendarme, who sat opposite me.

Toward noon the messenger returned, and to my joy brought back the papal permission to enter
"the States." Light and short as my constraint had been, it was sufficient to make me feel
what a magic influence is in liberty. I could again go whither I would; and the poor village
of Ponte Lagoscuro, and even the faces of the two officials, assumed a kindlier aspect. Bidding
these last, whose Italian urbanity had won upon me, adieu, I started on foot for Ferrara, which
lay on the plain some five miles in advance. The road thither was a magnificent one; but I
learned afterwards that I had Napoleon to thank for it; but alas, what a picture the country
presented! The water was allowed to stagnate along the path, and a thick, green scurf had gathered
upon it. The rich black soil was covered with weeds, and the few houses I saw were mere hovels.
The sun shone brilliantly, however, and strove to gild this scene of neglect and wretchedness.
The day was the 28th of October, and the heat was that of a choice summer day in Scotland,
with a much balmier air. I hurried on along the deserted road, and soon, on emerging from a
wood, sighted the town of Ferrara, which stretched along the plain in a low line of roofs,
with a few towers breaking the uniformity. Presenting my "pass" to the sentinel at the barrier,
I entered the city in which Calvin had found an asylum and Tasso a prison.

Poor fallen Ferrara! Commerce, learning, the arts, religion, had by turns shed a glory upon
it. Now all is over; and where the "Queen of the Po" had been, there sits on the darkened plain
a poor city, mouldering into dust, with the silence of a sepulchre around it. I entered the
suburbs, but sound of human voice there was none; not a single human being could I see. It
might be ages since these streets were trodden, for aught that appeared. The doors were closed,
and the windows were stanchioned with iron. In many cases there was neither door nor window;
but the house stood open to receive the wind or rain, the fowls of heaven, or the dogs of the
city, if any such there were. I passed on, and drew nigh the centre of the town; and now there
began to be visible some signs of vitality. Struck at the extremities, life had retreated to
the heart. A square castellated building of red brick, surrounded on all sides by a deep moat,
filled with the water of the Po, and guarded by Austrian soldiers, upreared its towers before
me. This was the Papal Legation. I entered it, and found my passport waiting me; and the tiara
and the keys, emblazoned on its pages, told me that I was free of the Papal States.

CHAPTER XVII.

FERRARA.

     Lovely in its Ruins--Number and Wealth of its Churches--Tasso's
     Prison--Renée's Palace--Calvin's Chamber--Influence of Woman on the
     Reformation--Renée and her Band--Re-union above--Utter Decay of its
     Trade, its Manufactures, its Knowledge.

Even in its ruins Ferrara is lovely. It wears in the tomb the sunset hues of beauty. Its streets
run out in straight lines, and are of noble breadth and length. Unencumbered with the heavy
arcades that darken Padua, the marble fronts of its palaces rise to a goodly height, covered
with rich but exceedingly sweet and chaste designs. On the stone of their pilasters and door-posts
the ilex puts forth its leaf, and the vine its grapes; and the carving is as fresh and sharp,
in many instances, as if the chisel were but newly laid aside. But it is melancholy to see
the long grass waving on its causeways, and the ivy clinging to the deserted doorways and balconies
of palatial residences, and to hear the echoes of one's foot sounding drearily in the empty street.

I passed the afternoon in visiting the churches. There is no end of these, and night fell before
I had got half over them. It amazes one to find in the midst of ruins such noble buildings,
overflowing with wealth. Pictures, statuary, marbles, and precious metals, dazzle, and at last
weary, the traveller, and form a strange contrast to the desolate fields, the undrained swamps,
the mouldering tenements, and the beggarly population, that are collected around them. Of the
churches of Ferrara, we may say as Addison of the shrine of Loretto, "It is indeed an amazing
thing to see such a prodigious quantity of riches lie dead and untouched, in the midst of so
much poverty and misery as reign on all sides of them. If these riches were all turned into
current coin, and employed in commerce, they would make Italy the most flourishing country
in the world."

Two objects specially invited my attention in Ferrara: the one was the prison of Tasso,--the
other the palace of Renée, the Duchess of Ferrara. Tasso's prison is a mere vault in the courtyard
of the hospital of St Anna, built up at one end with a brick wall, and closed at the other
by a low and strong door. The floor is so damp that it yields to the foot; and the arched roof
is so low that there is barely room to stand upright. I strongly doubt whether Tasso, or any
other man, could have passed seven years in this cell and come out alive. It is written all
over within and without with names, some of them illustrious ones. "Byron" is conspicuous in
the crowd, cut in strong square characters in the stone; and near him is "Lamartine," in more
graceful but smaller letters.

Tasso seems to have regarded his country as a prisoner not less than himself, and to have strung
his harp at times to bewail its captivity. The dungeon "in which Alphonso bade his poet dwell"
was dreary enough, but that of Italy was drearier still; for it is Italy, fully more than the
poet, that may be regarded as speaking in the following lines, which furnish evidence that,
along with Dante, and all the great minds of the period, Torquato Tasso had seen the hollowness
of the Papal Church, and felt the galling bondage which that Church inflicts on both the intellect
and the soul.

 "O God, from this Egyptian land of woe,
   Teeming with idols and their monstrous train,
   O'er which the galling yoke that I sustain
   Like Nilus makes my tears to overflow,
 To thee, her land of rest, my soul would go:
   But who, ah! who will break my servile chain?
   Who through the deep, and o'er the desert plain
   Will aid and cheer me, and the path will show?
 Shall God, indeed, the fowls and manna strew,--
   My daily bread? and dare I to implore
   Thy pillar and thy cloud to guide me, Lord?
 Yes, he may hope for all who trusts thy word.
   O then thy miracles in me renew;
   Thine be the glory, and my boasting o'er."

From the reputed prison of Tasso I went to see the roof which had sheltered the presiding intellect
of the Reformation,--John Calvin. Tasso's glory is like a star, burning with a lovely light
in the deep azure; Calvin's is like the sun, whose waxing splendour is irradiating two hemispheres.
The palace of the illustrious Renée,--now the Austrian and Papal Legations, and literally a
barrack for soldiers,--has no pretensions to beauty. Amid the graceful but decaying fabrics
of the city, it erects its square unadorned mass of dull red, edged with a strip of lawn, a
few cypresses, and a moat brim-full of water, which not only surrounds it on all sides, but
intersects it by means of arches, and makes the castle almost a miniature of Venice. Good part
of the interior is occupied as passport offices and guard-rooms. The staircase is of noble
dimensions. Some of the rooms are princely, their panellings being mostly covered with paintings,
but not of the first excellence. The small room in the southern quadrangle which Calvin is
said to have occupied is now fitted up as an oratory; and a very pretty little show-room it
is, with its marble altar-piece, its silver candlesticks, its crucifixes, and, in short, all
the paraphernalia of such places. If there be any efficacy in holy water, the little chamber
must by this time be effectually cleansed from the sad defilement of the arch-heretic.

Ferrara is indissolubly connected with the Reformation in Italy. In fact, it was the centre
of the movement in the south of the Alps. This distinction it owed to its being the residence
of Renée, the daughter of Louis XII. of France, and wife of Hercules II., Duke of Ferrara.
This lady, to a knowledge of the ancient classics and contemporary literature, and the most
amiable and generous dispositions, added a deep love of evangelical truth, and gladly extended
shelter to the friends of the Reformation, whom persecution now forced to leave their native
country. Thus there came to be assembled round her a galaxy of talent, learning, and piety.
If we except John Calvin, who was known during his brief sojourn of three months as Charles
Heppeville, the two noblest minds in this illustrious band were women,--Renée and Olympia Morata.
The cause of the Reformation lies under great obligations to woman; though the part she acted
in that great drama has never been sufficiently acknowledged.[2] In the heart of woman, when
sanctified by Divine grace, there lies concealed under a veil of gentleness and apparent timidity,
a fund of fortitude and lofty resolution, which requires a fitting occasion to draw it forth;
but when that occasion arrives, there is seen the strength and grandeur of the female character.
For woman, whatever is noble, beautiful, and sublime, has peculiar attractions. A just cause,
overborne by power or numbers, appeals peculiarly to her unselfish nature; and thus it has
happened that the Reformation sometimes found in woman its most devoted disciple and its most
undaunted champion. Who can tell how much the firmness and perseverance of the more prominent
actors in these struggles were owing to her wise and affectionate counsels? And not only has
she been the counsellor of man,--she has willingly shared his sufferings; and the same deep
sensibility which renders her so shrinking on ordinary occasions, has at these times given
her unconquerable strength, and raised her above the desolation of a prison,--above the shame
and horror of a scaffold. Of such mould were the two illustrious women I have mentioned,--the
accomplished Renée, the daughter of a king of France, and the yet more accomplished Olympia
Morata, the daughter of a schoolmaster and citizen of Mantua.

To me these halls were sacred, for the feet which had trodden them three centuries ago. They
were thronged with Austrian soldiers and passport officials; but I could people them with the
mighty dead. How often had Renée assembled her noble band in this very chamber! How often here
had that illustrious circle consulted on the steps proper to be taken for advancing their great
cause! How often had they indulged alternate fears and hopes, as they thought now of the power
arrayed against them, and now of the progress of the truth, and the confessors it was calling
to its aid in every city of Italy! And when the deliberations and prayers of the day were ended,
they would assemble on this lawn, to enjoy, under these cypresses, the delicious softness of
the Italian twilight. Ah! who can tell the exquisite sweetness of such re-unions! and how inexpressibly
soothing and welcome to men whom persecution had forced to flee from their native land, must
it have been to find so secure a haven as this so unexpectedly opened to receive them! But
ah! too soon were they forced out upon an ocean of storms. They were driven to different countries
and to various fates,--some to a life of exhausting labour and conflict, some to exile, and
some to the stake. But all this is over now: they dread the dungeon and the stake no more;
they are wanderers no longer, having come to a land of rest. Renée has once again gathered
her bright band around her, under skies whose light no cloud shall ever darken, and whose calm
no storm shall ever ruffle. But do they not still remember and still speak of the consultations
and sweet communings which they had together under the shady cypress trees, and the still,
rich twilights of Ferrara?

Ferrara was the first town subject to the Pope I had entered; and I had here an opportunity
of marking the peculiar benefits which attend infallible government. This city is only less
wretched than Padua; and the difference seems to lie rather in the more cheerful look of its
buildings, than in any superior wealth or comfort enjoyed by its people. Its trade is equally
ruined; it is even more empty of inhabitants; its walls, of seven miles' circuit, enclose but
a handful of men, and these have a wasted and sickly look, owing to the unhealthy character
of the country around. The view from its ramparts reminded me of the prospect from the walls
of York. The plain is equally level; the soil is naturally more rich; but the drainage and
cultivation of the English landscape are wanting. The town once enjoyed a flourishing trade
in hemp,--an article which found its way to our dockyards; but this branch of traffic now scarcely
exists. The native manufactures of Ferrara have been ruined; and a feeble trade in corn is
almost all that is left it. How is this? Is its soil less fertile? Has its natural canal, the
Po, dried up? No; but the Government, afraid perhaps that its fields would yield too plenteously,
its artizans become too ingenious, and its citizens too wealthy in foreign markets, has laid
a heavy duty on its exports, and on every article of home manufacture. Hence the desolate Polesina
without, and the extinct forges and empty workshops within, its walls. A city whose manufactures
were met with in all the markets of Europe is now dependent for its own supply on the Swiss.
The ruin of its trade dates from its annexation to the Papal States. The decay of intelligence
has kept pace with that of trade. At the beginning of the sixteenth century Ferrara was one
of the lights of Europe: now I know not that there is a single scholar in its university; and
its library of eighty thousand volumes and nine hundred manuscripts, among which are the Greek
palimpsests of Gregory Nazianzen and Chrysostom, and the manuscripts of Ariosto and Tasso,
is becoming, equally with Ariosto's dust, which reposes in its halls, the prey of the worm.

I have to thank the papal police at Ponte Lagoscuro for the opportunity of seeing Ferrara;
for, with the bad taste which most travellers in Italy display on this head, I had overlooked
this town, and booked myself right through to Bologna. I lodged at a fine old hotel, whose
spacious apartments left me in no doubt that it had once belonged to some of the princely families
of Ferrara. I saw there, however, men who had "a lean and hungry look," and not such as Cæsar
wished to have about him,--"fat, sleek-headed men, and such as sleep o' nights;" and my suspicions
which were awakened at the time have since unfortunately been confirmed, for I read in the
newspapers, rather more than a year ago, that the landlord had been shot.

CHAPTER XVIII.

BOLOGNA AND THE APENNINES.

     Road from Ferrara to Bologna--Wayside Oratories--Miserable
     Cultivation--Barbarism of People--Aspect of Bologna--Streets,
     Galleries, and Churches of its Interior--Decay of Art--San
     Petronio--View of Plain from Hill behind Bologna--Tyranny of
     Government--Night Arrests--Ruinous Taxation--Departure from
     Bologna--Brigands--The Apennines--Storm among these Mountains--Two
     Russian Travellers--Dinner at the Tuscan Frontier--Summit of the
     Pass--Halt for the Night at a Country Inn--The Hostess and her
     Company--Supper--Resume Journey next Morning--First Sight of
     Florence.

On the morrow at ten I took my departure for Bologna. It was sweet to exchange the sickly faces
and unnatural silence of the city for the bright sun and the living trees. The road was good,--so
very good, that it took me by surprise. It was not in keeping with the surrounding barbarism.
Instead of a hard-bottomed, macadamized highway, which traversed the plain in a straight line,
bordered by noble trees, I should have expected to find in this region of mouldering towns
and neglected fields, a narrow, winding, rutted path, ploughed by torrents and obstructed by
boulders; and so, I am sure, I should have done, had any of the native governments of Italy
had the making of this road. But it had been designed and executed by Napoleon; and hence its
excellence. His roads alone would have immortalized him. They remain, after all his victories
have perished, to attest his genius. Would that that genius had been turned to the arts of
peace! Conquerors would do well to ponder the eulogium pronounced on a humble tailor who built
a bridge out of his savings,--that the world owed more to the scissors of that man than to
the sword of some conquerors.

Along the road, at short intervals, were little temples, where good Catholics who had a mind
might perform their devotions. This reminded me that I was now in Peter's patrimony,--the holy
land of Romanism; and where, it was presumed, the wayfarer would catch the spirit of devotion
from the soil and air. The hour of prayer might be past,--I know not; but I saw no one in these
oratories. Little shrines were perched upon the trees, formed sometimes of boards, at others
simply of the cavity of the trunk; while the boughs were bent so as to form a canopy over them.
Little images and pictures had been stuck into these shrines; but the rooks,--these black republicans,--like
the "reds" at Rome, had waged a war for possession, and, pitching overboard the little gods
that occupied them, were inhabiting in their room. The "great powers" were too busy, or had
been so, in the restoration of greater personages, to take up the quarrel of these minor divinities.
A strange silence and dreariness brooded over the region. The land seemed keeping its Sabbaths.
The fields rested,--the villages were asleep,--the road was untrodden. Had one been dropt from
the clouds, he would have concluded that it was but a century or so since the Flood, and that
these were the rude primitive great-grandchildren of Noah, who had just found their way into
these parts, and were slowly emerging from barbarism. The fields around afforded little indication
of such an instrument as the plough; and one would have concluded from the garments of the
people, that the loom was among the yet uninvented arts. The harnessings of the horses formed
a curiously tangled web of thong, and rope, and thread, twisted, tied, and knotted. It would
have puzzled OEdipus himself to discover how a horse could ever be got into such gear, or,
being in, how it ever could be got out. There seemed a most extraordinary number of beggars
and vagabonds in Peter's patrimony. A little congregation of these worthies waited our arrival
at every village, and whined round us for alms so long as we remained. Others, not quite so
ragged, stood aloof, regarding us fixedly, as if devising some pretext on which to claim a
paul of us. There were worse characters in the neighbourhood, though happily we saw none of
them. But at certain intervals we met the Austrian patrol, whose duty it was to clear the road
of brigands. Peter, it appeared to us, kept strange company about him,--idlers, beggars, vagabonds,
and brigands. It must vex the good man much to find his dear children disgracing him so in
the eyes of strangers.

These dismal scenes accompanied us half the way. We then entered the Bolognese, and things
began to look a little better. Bologna, though under the Papal Government, has long been famous
for nourishing a hardy, liberty-loving people, though, if report does them justice, extremely
licentious and infidel. Its motto is "libertas;" and the air of liberty is favourable, it would
seem, to vegetation; for the fields looked greener the moment we had crossed the barrier. Soon
we were charmed with the sight of Bologna. Its appearance is indeed imposing, and gives promise
of something like life and industry within its walls. A noble cluster of summits,--an offshoot
of the Apennines,--rises behind the city, crowned with temples and towers. Within their bosky
declivities, from which tall cypress-trees shoot up, lie embowered villas and little watch-towers,
with their glittering vanes. At the foot of the hill is spread out the noble city, with its
leaning towers and its tall minaret-looking steeples. The approach to the walls reminded me
that below these ramparts sleeps Ugo Bassi. I afterwards searched for his resting-place, but
could find no one who either would or could show me his tomb. A more eloquent declaimer than
even Gavazzi, I have been assured by those who knew him, was silenced when Ugo Bassi fell beneath
the murderous fire of the Croat's musket.

After the death-like desertion and silence of Ferrara, the feeble bustle of Bologna seemed
like a return to the world and its ways. Its streets are lined with covered porticoes, less
heavy than those of Padua, but harbouring after nightfall, says the old traveller ARCHENHOLTZ,
robbers and murderers, of whom the latter are the more numerous. He accounts for this by saying,
that whereas the robber has to make restitution before receiving absolution, the murderer,
whether condemned to die or set at liberty, receives full pardon, without the "double labour,"
as Sir John Falstaff called it, of "paying back." Its hundred churches are vast museums of
sculpture and painting. Its university, which the Bolognese boast is the oldest in Europe,
rivalled Padua in its glory, and now rivals it in its decay. Its two famous leaning towers,--the
rent in the bottom of one is quite visible,--are bending from age, and will one day topple
over, and pour a deluge of old bricks upon the adjoining tenements. Its "Academy of the Fine
Arts" is, after Rome and Florence, the finest in Italy. It is filled with the works of the
Caracci, Domenichino, Guido Albani, and others of almost equal celebrity. I am no judge of
such matters; and therefore my reader need lay no stress upon my criticisms; but it appeared
to me, that some paintings placed in the first rank had not attained that excellence. The highly-praised
"Victory of Sampson over the Philistines," I felt, wanted the grandeur of the Hebrew Judge
on this the greatest occasion of his life; although it gave you a very excellent representation
of a thirsty man drinking, with rows of prostrate people in the background. Other pieces were
disfigured by glaring anachronisms in time and dress. The artist evidently had drawn his inspiration,
not from the Bible, but from the Cathedral. The Apostles in some cases had the faces of monks,
and looked as if they had divided their time betwixt Liguori and the wine-flagon. Several Scriptural
personages were attired in an ecclesiastical dress, which must have been made by some tailor
of the sixteenth century. But there is one picture in that gallery that impressed me more than
any other picture I ever saw. It is a painting of the Crucifixion by Guido. The background
is a dark thundery mass of cloud, resting angrily above the dimly-seen roofs and towers of
Jerusalem. There is "darkness over all the land;" and in the foreground, and relieved by the
darkness, stands the cross, with the sufferer. On the left is John, looking up with undying
affection. On the right is Mary,--calm, but with eyes full of unutterable sorrow. Mary Magdalene
embraces the foot of the cross: her face and upper parts are finely shaded; but her attitude
and form are strongly expressive of reverence, affection, and profound grief. There are no
details: the piece is simple and great. There are no attempts to produce effect by violent
manifestations of grief. Hope is gone, but love remains; and there before you are the parties
standing calm and silent, with their great sorrow.

It so happened that the exhibition of the works of living artists was open at the time, and
I had a good opportunity of comparing the present with the past race of Italian painters. I
soon found that the race of Guidos was extinct, and that the pencil of the masters had fallen
into the hands of but poor copyists. The present artists of Italy have given over painting
saints and Scripture-pieces, and work mostly in portraits and landscapes. They paint, of course,
what will sell; and the public taste appears decidedly to have changed. There was a great dearth
of good historical, imaginative, and allegorical subjects; too often an attempt was visible
to give interest to a piece by an appeal to the baser passions. But the living artists of that
country fall below not only their great predecessors, but even the artists of Scotland. This
exhibition in Bologna did not by any means equal in excellence or interest the similar exhibition
opened every spring in Edinburgh. The statuary displayed only beauty and voluptuousness of
form: it wanted the simple energy and the chastened grandeur of expression which characterize
the statuary of the ancients, and which have made it the admiration of all ages.

The only god whom the Bolognese worship is San Petronio. His temple, in which Charles V. was
crowned by Clement VII., stands in the Piazza Maggiore, the forum of Bologna in the middle
ages, and rivals the "Academy" itself in its paintings and sculptures. Though the façade is
not finished, nor likely soon to be, it is one of the largest churches in Italy, and is a fine
specimen of the Italian Gothic. In a little side chapel is the head of San Petronius himself,
certified by Benedict XIV. On the forms on the cathedral floor lie little framed pictures of
the saint, with a prayer addressed to him. I saw a country girl enter the church, drop on her
knees, kiss the picture, and recite the prayer. I afterwards read this prayer, though not on
bended knee; and can certify that a grosser piece of idolatry never polluted human lips. Petronio
was addressed by the same titles in which the Almighty is usually approached; as, "the most
glorious," "the most merciful."

           "Towards him they bend
 With awful reverence prone; and as a god
 Extol him equal to the Highest in heaven."

Higher blessings, whether for time or for eternity, than those for which the devotee was directed
to supplicate San Petronio, man needs not, and God has not to bestow. Daily bread, protection
from danger, grace to love San Petronio, grace to serve San Petronio, pardon, a happy death,
deliverance from hell, and eternal felicity in Paradise,--all who offered this prayer,--and
other prayer was unheard beneath that roof,--supplicated of San Petronio. The Church of Rome
affirms that she does not pray to the saints, but through them,--namely, as intercessors with
Christ and God. This is no justification of the practice, though it were the fact; but it is
not the fact. In protestant countries she may insert the name of God at the end of her prayers;
but in popish countries she does not deem it needful to observe this formality. The name of
Christ and of God rarely occurs in her popular formulas. In the Duomo of Bologna, the only
god supplicated,--the only god known,--is San Petronio. The tendency of the worship of the
Church of Rome is to efface God from the knowledge and the love of her members. And so completely
has this result been realized, that, as one said, "You might steal God from them without their
knowing it." Indeed, that "Great and Dreadful Name" might be blotted out from the few prayers
of that Church in which it is still retained, and its worship would go on as before. What possible
change would take place in the Duomo of San Petronio at Bologna, and in thousands of other
churches in Italy, though Rome was to decree in words, as she does in deeds, that "there is
no God?"

On the second day of my stay at Bologna I ascended the fine hill on the north of the city.
A noble pillared arcade of marble, three miles in length, leads up to the summit. At every
twelve yards or so is an alcove, with a florid painting of some saint; and at each station
sits a poor old woman, who begs an alms of you, in the name of the saint beneath whose picture
she spins her thread,--her own thread being nearly ended. There met me here a regiment of little
priests, of about an hundred in number, none of whom seemed more than ten years of age, and
all of whom wore shoes with buckles, silk stockings, breeches, a loose flowing robe, a white-edged
stock, and shovel hat,--in short, miniature priests in dress, in figure, and in everything
save their greater sportiveness. On the summit is a magnificent church, containing one of those
black madonnas ascribed to Luke, and said to have been brought hither by a hermit from Constantinople
in the twelfth century. Be this as it may, the black image serves the Bolognese for an occasion
of an annual festival, kept with fully as much hilarity as devotion.

From the summit one looks far and wide over Italy. Below is spread out the plain of Lombardy,
level as the sea, and as thickly studded with white villas as the heavens with stars. On the
north, the cities of Mantua and Verona, and numerous other towns and villages, are visible.
On the east, the towers and cathedral roofs of Ferrara are seen rising above the woods that
cover the plain; and the view is bounded by the Adriatic, which, like a thin line of blue,
runs along the horizon. On the south and west is the hill country of the Apennines, among whose
serrated peaks and cleft sides is many a lovely dell, rich in waters, and vines, and olive
trees. The distant country towards the Mediterranean lay engulphed in a white mist. A violent
electrical action was going on in it, which, like a strong wind moving upon its surface, raised
it into billows, which appeared to sweep onward, tossing and tumbling like the waves of ocean.

I had taken up my abode at the Il Pellegrino, one of the best recommended hotels in Bologna,--not
knowing that the Austrian officers had made it their head-quarters, and that not a Bolognese
would enter it. At dinner-time I saw only the Austrian uniform around the table. This was a
matter of no great moment. Not so what followed. When I went to bed, there commenced overhead
a heavy shuffling of feet, and an incessant going and coming, with slamming of doors, and jolting
of tables, which lasted all night long. A sad tragedy was enacting above me. The political
apprehensions are made over-night in the Italian towns; and I little doubt that the soldiers
were all night busily engaged in bringing in prisoners, and sending them off to jail. The persons
so arrested are subjected to moral and physical tortures, which speedily prostrate both mind
and body, and sometimes terminate in death. Loaded with chains, they are shut up in stinking
holes, where they can neither stand upright nor lie down at their length. The heat of the weather
and the foul air breed diseases of the skin, and cover them with pustules. The food, too, is
scanty, often consisting of only bread and water. The Government strive to keep their cruel
condition a secret from their relatives, who, notwithstanding, are able at times to penetrate
the mystery that surrounds them, but only to have their feelings lacerated by the thought of
the dreadful sufferings undergone by those who are the objects of their tenderest affection.
And what agony can be more dreadful than to know that a father, a husband, a son, is rotting
in a putrid cell, or being beaten to death by blows, while neither relief nor sympathy from
you can reach the sufferer? The case of a young man of the name of Neri, formerly healthy and
handsome, found its way to the public prints. Broken down by blows, he was carried to the military
hospital in an almost dying condition, where an English physician, in company with an Austrian
surgeon, found him with lacerated skin, and the vertebral bones uncovered. He was enduring
at the same time so acute pain from inflammation of the bowels, that he was unable, but by
hints, to express his misery. It was here that the atrocities of the Papal Nuncio BEDINI were
perpetrated,--the same man who was afterwards chased from the soil of America by a storm of
execration evoked against him by the friends and countrymen of the victims who had been tortured
and shot during his sway in Bologna. In short, the acts of the Holy Office are imitated and
renewed; so that numbers, distracted and maddened by the torments which they endure, avow offences
which they never committed, and name accomplices whom they never had; and the retractations
of these unhappy beings are of no avail to prevent new arrests. The Bolognese are permitted
to weep their complicated evils only in secret; to do so openly would be charged as a crime.

The fiscal oppression is nearly as unbearable as the political and social. The taxation, both
as regards its amount and the mode of enforcing it, is ruinous to the individual, and operates
as a fatal check to the progress of industry. The country is eaten up with foreign soldiers.
The great hotels in all the principal towns resemble casernes. The reader may judge of my surprise
on opening my bed-room door one morning, to find that a couple of Croats had slept on the mat
outside of it all night. It might be a special mark of honour to myself; but I rather think
that they are accustomed to bivouac in the passages and lobbies. The eternal drumming in the
streets is enough to deafen one for life. To the traveller it is sufficiently annoying; how
much more so to the Bolognese, who knows that that is music for which he must pay dear! Since
1848, the aggregate of taxation between Leghorn and Ancona has been increased about 40 per
cent.; and the taxes are levied upon a principle of arbitrary assessment which compels the
rich to simulate poverty, as in Turkey, lest they should be stripped of their last farthing.
In Bologna, the payments of the house and land tax, which used to be made every two months,
are now collected for the same sums every seven weeks; and a per centage is added at the pleasure
of the Government, of which no one knows the amount till the collector calls with his demand.
In other towns an income-tax is levied upon trades and professions, framed upon no rule but
the supposed capabilities of the individual assessed to pay. Bologna, I may note, although
in the Papal States, is now quite an Austrian town. The Austrians have there six-and-twenty
pieces of artillery, and are building extensive barracks for cavalry and infantry. Bologna
belongs to that part of the Papal States called the Four Legations, where, whether it pleases
the Pope to be so protected or not, it is now quite understood that the Austrians have come
to stay. The officer in command at Bologna styles himself its civil as well as military governor.

On the third day after my arrival, I started at four of the morning for Florence. It was dark
as we rode through the streets of Bologna; and our diligence, piled a-top with luggage, smashed
several of the oil-lamps, which dangled on cords at a dangerous proximity to the causeway.
I don't know that the Bolognese would miss them, for we left the street very little, if at
all, darker than we found it. I looked forward with no little interest to the day's ride, which
was to lie among the dells of the Apennines, and to terminate at eve with the fair sight of
the Queen of the Arno. How unlike the reality, will appear in the sequel. In half an hour we
came in the dim light to a little valley, where the village bell was sweetly chiming the matins.
I note the spot because I narrowly missed being an actor in a tragedy which took place here
the very next morning. I may tell the story now, though I anticipate somewhat. I was sitting
at the table d'hote in Florence three days after, when the gentleman on my right began to tell
the company how he had travelled from Bologna on the Saturday previous, and how he and all
his fellow-passengers had been robbed on the way. They had got to the spot I have indicated,
when suddenly a little band of brigands, which lay in ambush by the wayside, rushed on the
diligence. Some mounted on the front, and attended to the outside passengers; others took charge
of those in the interieur. Now it was, when the passengers saw into what hands they had fallen,
that nothing was heard but groaning in all parts of the diligence. Our informant, who sat next
the window in the interieur, was seized by the collar, a long knife was held to his breast,
and he was admonished to use all diligence in making over to his new acquaintance any worldly
goods he had about him. He had to part with his gold watch and chain, his breast-pin, and sundry
other articles of jewellery; but his purse and sovereigns he contrived to drop among the straw
at the bottom of the vehicle. All the rest fared as he did, and some of them worse, for they
lost their money as well as jewels. These grave proceedings were diversified by a somewhat
humorous incident. The coachman had providently put his dinner in the form of a sausage, rolled
in brown paper, under his seat. This is the form in which Austrian zwanzigers are commonly
made up; and the brigands, fancying the coachman's sausage to be a roll of silver zwanzigers,
seized on it with avidity, and bore it off in triumph. They were proceeding to rifle the baggage,
when, hearing the horse-patrol approaching, they plunged into the thicket as suddenly as they
had appeared. The morning chimes were sounding, as on the previous day, while this operation
was going on. But what is not a little extraordinary is, that all this took place within two
miles of the city gates of Bologna, where there could not be fewer than twelve thousand Austrian
soldiers. But these, I presume, were too much engaged on this, as on previous nights, in apprehending
and imprisoning the citizens in the Pope's behalf, to think of looking after brigands. In Peter's
privileged patrimony one may rob, murder, and break every command of the decalogue, and defy
the police, provided he obey the Church. Were I to travel that road again, I would provide
myself with a tinsel watch and appendages, and a sausage carefully rolled up in paper, to avoid
the unpleasantness of meeting such wellwishers empty-handed.

In another half hour we came to the spurs of the Apennines. The day was breaking, and its light,
I hoped, would lay open many a sweet dell and many a romantic peak, before evening. These hopes,
as, alas! too often happens in the longer journey of life, were to be suddenly dashed. I felt
a warm, suffocating current of air breathing over the valley, and looked up to see the furnace
whence, as I supposed, it proceeded. This was the sirocco, the herald of the tempest that soon
thereafter burst upon us. Masses of whitish cloud came rolling over the summits of the hills;
furious gusts came down upon us from the heights; and in a few minutes we found ourselves contending
with a hurricane such as I have never seen equalled save on one other occasion. The cloud became
fearfully black, and made the lightning the more awful as it touched with fire the peaks around
us, and bathed in an ocean of flame the vines and hamlets on the hill-side. Terrible peals
of thunder broke over us; and these were followed by torrents of rain, which the furious winds
dashed against our vehicle with the force and noise of a cataract. We had to make our way up
the mountain's side in the face of this tempest. At times more than a dozen animals were yoked
to our diligence,--horses, oxen, and beasts of every kind which we could press into the service;
while half-a-dozen postilions, shouting and cracking their whips, strove to urge the motley
cavalcade onward. Still we crept up only by inches. The road in most cases wound over the very
peak of the mountain; and there the tempest, rushing upon us from all sides at once, threatened
to lay our vehicle, which shook and quivered in the blast, flat on its side, or toss it into
the valley below. The storm continued to rage with unabated violence from day-break till mid-day;
and, by favour of horses, bullocks, and postilions, we kept moving on at the rate of two miles
an hour, now climbing, now descending, well knowing that at every summit a fresh buffeting
awaited us.

I had as my companions on this journey, two Russian gentlemen, with whom afterwards, at several
points of my tour, I came into contact. They were urbane and intelligent men, full of their
own country and of the Czar, yet professing great respect for England, which they had just
visited, and looking down with a contempt they were at little pains to conceal, upon the Frenchmen
and Italians among whom they were moving. They possessed the sobriety of mind, the turn for
quiet, shrewd observation, in short, much of the physical and intellectual stamina, of Englishmen,
with just a shade less of the exquisite polish which marks the latter wherever they are met
with. These, no doubt, were favourable specimens of the Russian nation; but it is such men
who give the tone to a State, while the masses below execute their designs. I have ever since
felt that, should we ever meet that people on the field of battle, the contest would be no
ordinary one. I recollect one of these gentlemen meeting me on the streets of Rome some weeks
afterwards, and informing me that he had been the day before to visit the ball on the top of
St Peter's, and that he had been delighted at seeing his Emperor's name, in his Emperor's own
handwriting, inside the ball, with a few lines beneath the signature, stating that he had stood
in that ball, and had there prayed for Mother Holy Russia,--a fact full of significance.

About mid-day we came, wet, and weary, and cold, to the Duana on the Tuscan frontier, where
was a poor inn, at which, after our passports had been viséed, and our trunks and carpet-bags
plumbed, we dined. There were some twenty of us at table; a priest taking the top, and the
conducteur the bottom. I remember that two persons of the party kept their hats on at table,
and that these were the priest and a poor country lad,--the priest because he presided perhaps,
and the countryman because, not knowing the etiquette of the point, he wisely determined to
follow in that, as in greater matters, the priest. Our dinner consisted of coarse broth, black
bread, buffalo beef, and wine of not the sweetest flavour; but what helped us was an excellent
appetite, for we had not breakfasted beyond a few chestnuts and grapes picked up at the poor
villages through which we passed. We obtained, however, an hour's shelter from the elements.

We resumed our journey, and in about an hour's ride we gained the central chain of the Apennines.
Happily the tempest had moderated somewhat; for this, lying midway between the two seas, is
ordinarily the stormiest point of the pass. We crossed it, however, with less inconvenience
than we had looked for. The summits, which had hitherto been conical, with vines straggling
up their sides, now became rounded, or ran off in serrated lines, with sides scarred with tempests
and strewn with stones. The scenery was bleak and desolate, as that of the Grampian pass leading
by Spittal of Glenshee to Dee-side.

But the hope was short-lived: no Florence was I to see that night; nor was note of bird to
gladden the dells. The mists again fell, and hid in premature night those fine valleys, so
famous in Florentine history, which we were now approaching. We wound round hills, traversed
deep ravines, heard on every side the thunder of the swollen torrents, and, when the parting
vapour permitted, had glimpses of the luxuriant woods of myrtle and laurel that clothe these
valleys,--

 "Where round some mouldering tower pale ivy creeps,
 And low-brow'd rocks hang nodding o'er the deeps."

At last we found ourselves on the banks of a broad and swollen river,--the Save,--with no means
of transit save a dismantled bridge, so sorely shattered by the flood, that it was an even
question whether our vehicle might not, like the last straw on the dromedary's back, sink the
structure outright.

We dismounted, and, by the help of lights, measured first the bridge, and next the diligence,
and found that the breadth of the former exceeded that of the latter by just two inches. The
passengers passed on foot; the diligence, with the baggage, came after; and so all arrived
safely on the other side. Our first care was to assemble a council of war in the poor inn which
stood on the spot, and deliberate what next to do.

The conducteur opened the debate. "We had," he said, "twenty miles of road still before us;
the way lay through deep ravines, and over torrents which the rains must have rendered impassable:
it would be long past midnight till we should reach Florence,--if we should ever reach it:
his opinion was, therefore, that we ought to stay where we were; nevertheless, if we insisted,
he would go on at all risks." So counselled our leader; and if we wanted an argument on the
other side, we had only to look around. The walls of the inn were naked and black; the floor
was covered inch-deep with slime, the deposit of the flood which had that day broke into the
dwelling; and the place was evidently unequal to the "entertainment" of such a number of "men
and horses" as had thus unexpectedly been thrown upon it. It is not wonderful, in these circumstances,
that a small opposition party sprung up, headed by an English lady, whose delicate slippers
were never made for such a floor as that on which she now stood. She could see no danger in
going on, and urged us to set forward. Better counsels prevailed, however; and we resolved
to endure the evils we knew, rather than adventure on those we knew not.

The next matter to be negotiated was supper, of which the aspect of the place gave no great
promise. The landlady was a thin, wiry, black, voluble Tuscan. "Have you beef?--Have you cheese?--Have
you macaroni?"--inquired several voices in succession. "Oh, she had all these, and a great
many dainties besides, in the morning; but the flood,--the flood!" The same flood, however,
which had swept off our hostess's larder, had swept in a great deal of good company, and she
was evidently resolved on setting the one evil over against the other. She now showered upon
us a long, rapid, and vehement address; and he who has not heard the Tuscan discourse does
not know what volubility is. "What does she say?" I inquired at one of my two Russian friends.
"She says very many words," he replied, "but the meaning is moneys, moneys." "Have you any
coffee?" I asked. "Oh, coffee! delightful coffee; but it had gone sailing down the flood."
"And it carried off the eggs too, I suppose?" "No; I have eggs." We resolved to sup on eggs.
A fire of logs was kindled up stairs, and a table was extemporized out of some deals. In a
quarter of an hour in came our supper,--black bread, fried eggs, and a skein of wine. We fell
to; but, alack! what from the smut of the chimney and the dust of the pan, the eggs were done
in the chiaro scuro style; the wine had so villanous a twang, that a few sips of it contented
me; and the bread, black as it was, was the only thing palatable. I got the landlady persuaded
to boil me an egg; and though the Italian peasants only dip their eggs in hot water, and serve
them up raw, it was preferable to the conglomerate of the pan. We made merry, however, over
our poor meal and the grateful warmth of the fire; and somewhere towards midnight we entertained
the question of going to bed. We had avoided the topic as long as possible, from a foreboding
that our hostess would present us with some rueful tale of blankets lost in the flood. Besides,
we were not without misgivings that, should the clouds return and the river rise as before,
house and all might follow the other things down the stream, and no one could tell where we
might find ourselves on awakening. On broaching the subject, however, we found to our delight,
that cribs, couches, shakedowns, and all sorts of contrivances, with store of cloaks, garments,
and blankets, had been got ready for our use.

We were told off into parties; and the first to be sorted were the two Russians, an Italian,
and myself. We four were shown into a room, which, to our great surprise, contained two excellent
four-posted beds, one of which was allotted to the two Russian gentlemen, and the other to
the Italian and myself. Our mode of turning in was somewhat novel. The Russians put away simply
their greatcoats, and lay down beneath the coverlet. My bed-fellow the Italian took up a position
for the night by throwing himself, as he was, on the top of the bed-clothes. Not approving
of either mode, I slipped off both greatcoat and coat, and, covering myself with the blankets,
soon forgot in sleep all the mishaps of the day.

The voice of the conducteur shouting at the door of our apartment awakened us before day-break.
Our company mustered with what haste they could, and we again betook us to the road,

 "While the still morn went out with sandals gray."

The path lay along the banks of the torrent Carza, and the valley we found frightfully scarred
by the flood of the former day. Fierce torrents rushing from the hills had torn the fences,
ploughed up the road, piled up hillocks of mud among the vineyards, and covered with barren
sand, or strewn with stones, many an acre of fine meadow. Had we attempted the path in the
darkness, our course must have found a speedy termination. At length, ascending a steep hill,
we found ourselves overlooking the valley of the Arno.

Every traveller taxes his descriptive powers to the utmost to paint the view from this hill-top;
and I verily believe that, seen under a cloudless sky, it is one of the most enchanting landscapes
in the world. The numberless conical hills,--the white villas and villages, which lie as thick
as if the soil had produced them,--the silvery stream of the Arno,--the rich chestnut and olive
woods,--the domes of the Italian Athens,--the songs,--the fragrance,--and the great wall of
the Apennines bounding all,--must present a picture of rare magnificence. But I saw it under
different conditions, and must needs describe it as it appeared.

Sub-Apennine Italy was before me, and it seemed the Italy I had dreamed of, could I only see
it; but, alas! it was blotted with mists, and overshadowed by a black canopy of cloud. Outspread,
far as the eye could extend southward, was a landscape of ridges and conical tops, separated
by winding wreaths of white mist, giving to the country the aspect of an ocean broken up into
creeks, and bays, and channels, with no end of islands. The hills were covered to their very
summits with the richest vegetation; and the multitude of villages sprinkled over them lent
them an air of great animation. The great chain of the Apennines, with rolling masses of cloud
on its summits, ran along on the east, and formed the bounding wall of the prospect. Below
us there floated on the surface of the mist an immense dome, looking like a balloon of huge
size about to ascend into the air. It did not ascend, however; but, surrounded by several tall
shafts and towers which rose silently out of the mist, it remained suspended over the same
spot. Like a buoy at sea affixed to the place where some noble vessel lies entombed, this dome
told us that engulphed in this ocean of vapour lay FLORENCE, with her rich treasures of art,
and her many stirring recollections and traditions.

CHAPTER XIX.

FLORENCE AND ITS YOUNG EVANGELISM.

     Beauty of Position--Focus of Italian Art--Education on the Æsthetic
     Principle--Effects as shown in the Character and Manners of the
     Florentines--The result not Civilization, but Barbarism--The
     Artizans of Britain surpass the Florentines in Civilization--Early
     English Scholars at Florence--Man's Power for
     Good--Savonarolo--History of present Religious Movement in
     Tuscany--Condition of Tuscan Government and Priesthood prior to
     1848--Attempts to introduce Religious Books--The Priests compel the
     Government to interfere--The Revolution of 1848--The Bible
     translated and seized--Visit of Vaudois Pastors--Secret Religious
     Press--Work now carried on by the Converts--Denunciation of DEATH
     for Bible Reading--Great Increase of Converts
     notwithstanding--Present State and Prospects of Movement--Leave
     Florence--Beauty of the Vale of the Arno--Pisa--Arrive at Leghorn.

Of Florence "the Beautiful," I must say that its beauty appeared scarce equal to its fame.
In an age when the capitals of northern Europe were of wood, the Queen of the Arno may have
been without a rival on the north of the Alps; but now finer streets, handsomer squares, and
nobler façades, may be seen in any of our second-rate towns. But its dome, by Brunelleschi,
the largest in the world,--its tall campanile,--its baptistry, with its beautiful gates,--and
its public statuary,--are worthy of all admiration. Its environs are superb.

Florence is sweetly embosomed in an amphitheatre of mountains, of the most lovely forms and
the richest and brightest colouring. Castles and convents crown their summits; while their
slopes display the pillar-like cypress, the gray olive, the festooned vine, with a multitude
of embowered villas. On the north-east, right in the fork of the Apennines, lie the bosky and
wooded dells of Valombrosa. On the north, seated on a pyramidal hill, is the ancient Fiesole,
which the genius of Milton has touched and immortalized. On the west are the spacious lawns
and parks of the Grand Duke; while the noble valley runs off to the south-west, carpeted with
vines, or covered with chestnut woods, with the Arno stealing silently through it in long reaches
to the sea. During my stay, the girdling Apennines were tipped with the snows of winter; and
when the sun shone out, they formed a gleaming circlet around the green valley, like a ring
of silver enclosing an enormous emerald. I saw the sun but seldom, however. The bad weather
which had overtaken me amid the Apennines descended with me into the valley of the Arno; and
murky clouds, with torrents of rain, but too often obscured the sky. But I could fancy the
delicious beauty of a summer eve in Florence, with the still balmy air enwrapping the purple
hills, the tall cypresses, the domes, and the gently stealing waters. In spring the region
must be a very paradise. Indeed, spring is seldom absent from the banks of the Arno; for though
at times savage Winter is heard growling amid the Apennines, he dare seldom venture farther
than midway down their slopes.

I cannot recall the past glories of Florence, or even touch on Cosmo's "immortal century;"
I cannot speak of its galleries, so rich in painting, so unrivalled in statuary; nor can I
enter its Pitti palace, with its hanging gardens; or the city churches, with their store of
frescoes and paintings; or its Santa Crocé, with its six mighty tombs,--those even of Dante,
Galileo, Machiavelli, Michael Angelo, Alfieri, Leonardo Aretino. The size of Florence brings
all these objects within a manageable distance; and, during my stay of well-nigh a week, I
visited them, as any one may do, almost every day. But every traveller has entered largely
into their description, and I pass them over, to touch on other things more rarely brought
into view.

Florence is the focus of Italian art; and here, if anywhere, one can see the effect of educating
a population solely on the æsthetic principle. The Florentines have no books, no reading-rooms,
no public lectures, no preaching in their churches even, bating the occasional harangue of
a monk. They are left to be trained solely by fine pictures and lovely statues. From these
they are expected to learn their duties as men and as citizens. The sole employment of the
people is to produce these things; their sole study, to be able to admire them. The result
is not civilization, but barbarism. Nor can it well be otherwise. We find the "beautiful" abundantly
in nature, but never dissociated from the "useful;" teaching us that it cannot be safely sought
but in union with what is true and good; and that we cannot make it "an end" without reversing
the whole constitution of our nature. When a people make the love of "the beautiful" their
predominant passion, they rapidly decline in the better and nobler qualities. The beautiful
yields only enjoyment; and those who live only to enjoy soon become intensely selfish. That
enjoyment, moreover, is immediate, and so affords no room for the exercise of patience and
foresight. A race of triflers arise, who think only of the present hour. They are wholly undisciplined
in the higher qualities of mind,--in perseverance and self-control; and, being withdrawn from
the contemplation of facts and principles, they become incapable of attending to the useful
duties of life, and are wholly unable to rise to the higher efforts of virtue and patriotism.
The Italian Governments, for their own ends, have restricted their subjects to the fine arts,
but at the expense of the trade, the agriculture, and the civilization, of their dominions.
The fabric of British power was not raised on the æsthetic principle. Take away our books,
and give us pictures; shut up our schools and churches, and give us museums and galleries;
instead of our looms and forges, substitute chisels and pencils; and farewell to our greatness.
The artizan of Birmingham or Glasgow is a more civilised man than the same class in the Italian
cities. His dwelling, too, displays an amount of comfort and elegance which few in Italy below
the rank of princes, and not always they, can command. The condition of the Italian people
shows conclusively that the predominating study of "the beautiful" has a most corrupting and
enfeebling effect. In fact, their pictures have paved the way for their tyrants; and when one
marks their demoralizing effects, he feels how salutary is the restriction of the Decalogue
against their use in Divine worship. If pictures and images lead to idolatry in the Church,
their exclusive study as infallibly produces serfdom in the State.

In the early dawn of the Reformation, several of our own countrymen visited the city of the
Medici, that they might have access to the works of antiquity which Cosmo had collected, and
enjoy the converse of the learned men that thronged his palace. "William Selling," says D'Aubigné,
"a young English ecclesiastic, afterwards distinguished at Canterbury by his zeal in collecting
valuable manuscripts,--his fellow-countrymen, Grocyn, Lilly, and Latimer, 'more bashful than
a maiden,'--and, above all, Linacre, whom Erasmus ranked above all the scholars of Italy,--used
to meet in the delicious villa of the Medici, with Politian, Chalcondyles, and other men of
learning; and there, in the calm evenings of summer, under that glorious Tuscan sky, they dreamt
romantic visions of the Platonic philosophy. When they returned to England, these learned men
laid before the youth of Oxford the marvellous treasures of the Greek language." We are repaying
the debt, by sending to that land a better philosophy than any these learned men ever brought
from it. This leads us to speak of the religious movement in progress in Tuscany.

After all, man's power for evil is extremely limited. The very opposite is the ordinary estimate.
When we mark the career of a conqueror like Napoleon, or the withering effects of an organization
like that of Rome, and compare these with the feeble results of a preacher like Savonarola,
whose body the fire reduced to ashes, and whose disciples persecution speedily scattered, we
say that man's power to destroy his species is almost omnipotent,--his power to benefit them
scarce appreciable. But spread out the long cycles of history and the long ages of the world,
and you learn that the triumphs of evil, though sudden, are temporary, and those of truth slow
but eternal. A true word spoken by a single man has in it more power than armies, and will,
in the long run, do more to bless than all that tyrannies can do to blight mankind. Savonarola,
feeble as he seemed, and unprotected as he was, wielded a power greater than that of Rome.
The truths sown by the preacher on the banks of the Arno so many centuries ago are not yet
dead. They are springing up; and, long after Rome shall have passed away, they will be a source
of liberty, of civilization, of arts, and of eternal life, to his countrymen.

A political storm heralded the quiet spring-time of evangelical truth which has of late blessed
that land. Prior to 1848, although there had been no change for the better in the law, a very
considerable degree of practical liberty was enjoyed by the subjects of Tuscany. The Tuscans
are naturally a quiet, well-behaved people; the Grand Duke was an easy, kind-hearted man; his
Government was exceedingly mild; and, as he conducted himself towards his people like a father,
he was greatly beloved by them. Tuscany at that period was universally acknowledged to be the
happiest province of Italy.

The priesthood of those days were a good-natured, easy set of men also. They had never known
opposition. They could not imagine the possibility of anything occurring to endanger their
power, and therefore were exceedingly tolerant in the exercise of it. They were an illiterate
and ill-informed race. An Abbatte of their own number assured Dr Stewart, so far back as 1845,
that there was not one amongst them, from the Archbishop downwards, who could read Hebrew,
nor half-a-dozen who could be found among the upper orders who could read Greek. They were
masters of as much Latin as enabled them to get through the mass; but they were wholly unskilled
in the modern tongues of Europe, and entire strangers to modern European literature. Though
poorly paid, they durst not eke out their means of subsistence by entering into any trade.
Many of them were fain to become major domos in rich families, and might be seen chaffering
in the markets in the public piazza, and weighing out flour, coffee, and oil to the servants
at home. No priest can say more than one mass a-day; and for that he is paid one lira, or eightpence
sterling.

Such being the state of matters, little notice was taken of what foreign Protestants might
be doing. The priests were secure in their ignorance, and deemed it impossible that any attempt
would be made to introduce the diabolical heresies of Luther among their orthodox flocks. Indeed,
these flocks were removed almost beyond the reach of contamination, not so much by the vigilance
of the priests, as by their own ignorance and bigotry. The degree of popular enlightenment
may be judged of from the following circumstance which happened to Dr Stewart, and of which
the Doctor himself assured me Soon after his first coming into Tuscany in 1845, he came into
contact with a countryman, who, on being told that he was a Protestant minister, began instantly
to scrutinize his lower extremities, to ascertain whether he had cloven hoofs. The priests
had told the people that Protestants were just devils in disguise.

The Government, I have said, was a mild one. It was more: it was affected with the usual Italian
sluggishness and indolence,--the dolce far niente; and accordingly it winked at innumerable
ongoings, so long as these did not attract public attention. Bibles and religious Protestant
works were introduced secretly, the Government knowing it, but winking at it, as the Church
did not complain. The arrest of the deputation from the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland
to the Holy Land in 1839 was an exception to what I have now stated, but such an exception
as confirms the general statement. The deputation, with the ignorance of us Britishers abroad
for the first time, imagined that because Leghorn was a free port, they were free to give away
Bibles, tracts, and all kinds of religious books; and accordingly they made vigorous use of
their time. Scarcely had they stepped on shore when they commenced a liberal distribution of
Bibles, books on the "Evidences," and other valuable works, among the boatmen, facchini, and
beggars. It did not occur to them, that of those to whom they gave these books, few could read,
and none were able to appreciate them. Many persons who received these books carried them to
the priests, who, confounded at the suddenness as well as the boldness of the assault, carried
them to the police, and the police to the Government; and before the deputation had been an
hour and a half in Thomson's hotel, they were under arrest. It was the Church which compelled
the Government to interfere; and it is the Church which is now driving forward the civil power
in its mad career of persecution. As a proof that we bring no heavier charge against the priests
than they deserve, we may mention, that in 1849 Dr Stewart was summoned to appear before the
delegate of Government, to answer for having allowed one or two Italian Protestant ministers
to preach in his pulpit. The delegate informed him that the Government was not taking this
step of its own accord, but that the Archbishop of Florence was compelling the Government to
put the law in force, and that the Archbishop was the prosecutor in the case.

The old statute of Ferdinand I., which allows to foreigners the full exercise of their religion
within the city of Leghorn, was taken advantage of to open the Scotch church there. This was
in 1845. It was two years after this,--in the winter of 1847-48,--that the religious movement
first developed itself,--full six months before the revolutions and changes of 1848. The work
was at first confined almost entirely to a handful of foreigners--Captain Pakenham; M. Paul,
a Frenchman, and the Swiss pastor in Florence;---- at----; and Mr Thomson, Vice-Consul at Leghorn.
Count Guicciardini was the only Florentine connected with the movement. It was resolved to
print and circulate such books as were likely to pass the censorship, and might be openly sold
by all booksellers. The censor of that day was a remarkably liberal man, and he gave his consent
very willingly. Five or six little volumes were printed in that country; but the people were
not yet prepared for such a step; the books lay unsold, and were got into circulation only
by being given away as presents. But the very fact that the friends of the movement had been
able to print and publish such works openly at Florence, with the approbation of the censor,
greatly encouraged them. It was next proposed to attempt to get the censor's approbation to
an edition of the New Testament; and the work was before him waiting his imprimatur, when the
revolutions of 1848 broke over Italy with the suddenness of one of its own thunder-storms.

I cannot go particularly into the changes that followed, and which are known to my readers
through other sources,--the flight of the Grand Duke,--the new Tuscan Constitution,--the free
press. The political for a time buried the religious. Captain Pakenham, taking advantage of
the liberty enjoyed under the republic, commenced printing an edition of Martini's Bible (the
Romanist version), believing that it would be more acceptable than Diodati's (the Protestant
version). Before he had got the book put into circulation, the re-action commenced, the Grand
Duke returned, and the work was seized. When engaged in making the seizure, the gendarmes pressed
a young apprentice printer to tell them whether there were any more copies concealed. The lad
replied that he had only one suggestion to offer, which was, that, now they had seized the
book, they should seize the author too. And who is he? eagerly inquired the gendarmes, preparing
to start on the chase. Jesus Christ, was the lad's reply.

Meanwhile the revolution had greatly enlarged the privileges of the Waldensian Church in Piedmont,
and three of her pastors, MM. Malan, Meille, and Geymonat, arrived in Florence in the winter
of 1848-49, for the purpose of making themselves more familiar with the tongue and accent of
the Tuscans, in order to be able to avail themselves of the greater openings of usefulness
now presented to them, both in their own country and in central Italy.

They preached occasionally, and attended the prayer-meeting, which now greatly increased, and
which was the only one at this time among the Florentines. Having by their visit helped forward
the good work, these evangelists, after a six months' stay in Florence, returned to their own
country.

A full year elapsed between the departure of the Waldensian brethren and the movement among
the Florentines to obtain an Italian pastor. After much deliberation they resolved on this
step, and in May 1850 a deputation set out for the Valleys, which, arriving at La Tour, prevailed
on Professor Malan to accept of the charge at Florence. M. Malan returned to that city, and,
on the 1st of July 1850, began his ministry, among a little flock of thirty persons, in the
Swiss chapel Via del Seraglio, in which the Grisons had a right to Italian service. The work
now went rapidly forward. Formerly there had been but one re-union; now there were ten in Florence
alone, besides others in the towns and villages adjoining. M. Malan had service once a fortnight
in Italian; and so large was the attendance, that the chapel, which holds four hundred, was
crowded to the door with Florentine converts or inquirers. The priests took the alarm. They
wrought upon the mind of the deformed Archduchess,--a great bigot, and sister to the Grand
Duke. A likely tool she was; for she had made a pilgrimage to Rimini, and offered on the shrine
of the winking Madonna a diamond tiara and bracelet. The result I need not state. The immediate
result was, that the Italian service was put a stop to in January 1851; and the final result
was the banishment of Malan and Geymonat from Tuscany in the May of that year,--the expulsion
of the pastors being accompanied with circumstances of needless severity and ignominy. Geymonat,
after lying two days in the Bargello of Florence, was brought forth and conducted on foot by
gendarmes, chained like an assassin, to the Piedmontese frontier. On this miserable journey
he was thrust every night into the common prison, along with characters of the worst description,
whose blasphemies he was compelled to hear. The foul air and the disgusting food of these places
made him sometimes despair of coming out alive; but he had his recompense in the opportunities
which he thus enjoyed of preaching the gospel to the gendarmes by the way, and to the keepers
of the prisons, some of whom heard him gladly.

The departure of the Vaudois pastors threw the work into the hands of the native converts,
by whom it has been carried on ever since. It is to be feared that, in the absence of pastors,
not a little that is political is mixed with the religious. It is difficult forming an estimate
of the numbers of the converts and inquirers. They have meetings in all the towns of Tuscany
and Lucca, between whom a constant intercourse is maintained. Each member subscribes two crazzia
a-week for the purchase of Protestant religious books. To supply these books, two presses are
at work,--one in Turin, the other in Florence. The latter is a secret press, which the police,
with all their efforts, have not been able to this day to discover. The Bible can be got into
Tuscany with great difficulty; yet the demand for it is greater than ever. The converts have
been tried by every mode of persecution short of death; yet their numbers grow. The prisons
are full with political and religious offenders; yet fresh arrests continually take place in
Florence.

The first and more notable instance of persecution on which the Government of Tuscany ventured,
after the banishment of Count Guicciardini and his companions, was the imprisonment of Francesco
and Rosa Madiai, for reading the Word of God in the Italian language. The sufferings of these
confessors turned out for the furtherance of the Gospel. The attention of many of their own
countrymen was drawn to the cause of their sufferings; and the bigotry of the Grand Duke, or
rather of the Court of Rome, with which the Tuscan Government had entered into a concordat
for the suppression of heresy, was proclaimed before all Europe. A Protestant deputation visited
Florence to intercede in behalf of these confessors; but their plea found so little favour
with the Grand Duke, that he immediately issued a decree, reviving an old law which makes all
offences against the religion of the State punishable by death. To provide for carrying the
decree into effect, a guillotine was imported from Lucca, and an executioner was hired at a
salary of ten pounds a month. As if this were not sufficiently explicit, the Grand Duke told
his subjects that he was "determined to root out Protestantism from his State, though he should
be handed down to posterity as a monster of cruelty." Neither the spectacle of the guillotine
nor the terrible threat of the Grand Duke could arrest the progress of the good work. The Bible
was sought after, and read in secret; and the numbers who left the communion of the Romish
Church grew and multiplied daily. In the beginning of 1853, the Protestants, or Evangelicals
as they prefer to call themselves in Tuscany, were estimated at many thousands. I doubt not
that this estimate was correct, if viewed as including all who had separated their interests
from the Church of Rome; but I just as little doubt that a majority of these, if brought to
the test, rather than suffer would have denied the Gospel. Many of them knew it only as a political
badge, not as a new life. But, on the judgment of those who had the best means of knowing,
there were at least a thousand in Tuscany who had undergone a change of heart, and were prepared
to confess Christ on the scaffold. To hunt out these peaceful ones, and bring them to punishment,
is the grand object of the priesthood; and in the confessional they have an instrumentality
ready-made for the purpose. Taking advantage of the greater timidity of the female mind, it
has become a leading question with the confessor, "Does your husband read the Bible? Has he
political papers?" Alas! according to the ancient prophecy, the brother delivers up the brother
to death. I heard of some affecting cases of this sort when I was in Florence. Of the fifty
persons, or thereabouts, who were then in prison on religious grounds, not a few had been accused
by their own relatives, the accusation being extorted by the threat of withholding absolution.
At the beginning of the English Reformation, with an infernal refinement of cruelty, children
were often compelled to light the faggots which were to consume their parents; and in Tuscany
at this hour, the trembling wife is compelled, by the threat of eternal damnation, to disclose
the secret which is to consign the husband to a dungeon. The police are never far from the
confessor's box, and wait only the signal from it, what house to visit, and whom to drag to
prison. As with us in former days, the Bible is secreted in the most unlikely places; it is
read at the dead hour of night; and the prayers and praises that follow are offered in whispering
accents,--for fear of the priests and the guillotine.

Every subsidiary agency that might further the progress of the truth has been suppressed by
the Government. All the liberal papers have been put down. They appeared again and again under
new names, but only to encounter, under every form, the veto of the authorities. At last their
whole printing establishments were confiscated. The public press having been silenced, the
secret one continued to speak to the Tuscans from its hiding-place; and its voice was the more
heard that the other was dumb. Besides Bibles, a variety of religious books have issued from
it, and have been widely circulated. Among the translated works spread among the Tuscans are
D'Aubigné's "History of the Reformation," M'Crie's "Suppression of the Reformation in Italy,"
"The Mother's Catechism," Watts' "Catechism," "The Pilgrim's Progress," and a variety of religious
tracts. The prohibition of a book by the Government is sure to be followed by a universal demand
for it; and the Government decree is thus the signal for going to press with a new edition
of the forbidden work. Mr Gladstone's letters on Naples were prohibited by Government; and
the very means adopted to keep the Tuscans ignorant of what Englishmen thought of the state
of Naples, and of the Continent generally, only led to its being better known. Though not a
single copy of these letters was to be seen in the shops or on the stalls, they found their
way into every one's hands. The same thing happened to Count Guicciardini. The Government prohibited
his statement, and all Florence read it. The well-known hatred of the priests to the Bible
has been its best recommendation in the eyes of the Tuscans. Thus the Government finds that
it cannot move a step without inflicting deadly damage on its own interests. Its interposition
is fatal only to the cause it seeks to help. To prohibit a book is to publish it; to bring
a man to trial is to give liberty an opportunity of speaking through his advocate; to cast
a confessor of the Lord Jesus into prison is but to erect a light-house amidst the Tuscan darkness.
The Government and the priesthood find that their efforts are foiled and their might paralyzed
by a mysterious power, which they know not how to grapple with. The guillotine has stood unused:
not that any scruples of conscience or any feelings of humanity restrain the priests; fain
would they bring every convert to the scaffold if they dared; but the odium which they well
know would attend such a deed deters them; and they anxiously wait the coming of a time when
it may be safe to do what could not be done at present but at the risk of damaging, and perhaps
ruining, their cause. It does not follow that the Tuscan priesthood have not the guilt of blood
to answer for. If the confessors of the Gospel in that land are not perishing by the guillotine,
they are pining in prisons, and sinking into the grave, by reason of the choking stench, the
disgusting vermin, and the insufficient food, to which they are exposed.

But the condition of these victims, perishing unknown and unpitied in the fangs of an ecclesiastical
tyranny, is not the most distressing spectacle which Tuscany at this hour presents. Theirs
is an enviable state, compared with that of the great body of the people. These occupy but
a larger prison, and groan in yet stronger fetters; while their captivity is uncheered by any
such hope as that which sustains the Tuscan confessors of the truth. Mistrust of their Church
is widely spread in the country. There is no religion in Tuscany. There is as little morality.
The marriage vow is but little regarded, and the seducer boasts of his triumphs over married
chastity, as if they were praiseworthy deeds. Thousands have plunged into atheism. Of those
who have not gone this length, the great body are dissatisfied, ill at ease, without confidence
in the doctrines of Rome, but ignorant of a more excellent way. Straitly shut up, they grope
blindfolded round the walls of their prison-house, wistfully turning their eyes to any ray
of light that strikes in through its crevices. How this state of things may end is known only
to God;--whether in the gradual spread of Gospel light, and the peaceful fall of that system
which has so long enthralled the intellect and soul of the Tuscans; or whether, as a result
of the growing exasperation and deepening horrors of these bondsmen, they may give a violent
wrench to the pillars of the ecclesiastical and social fabric, and pull it down upon the heads
of themselves and their oppressors.

I may avail myself of this opportunity of introducing a few recent facts relative to the analogous
work in Genoa; and this I do because these facts are of a character which may enable the reader
more clearly to conceive of the present religious condition of Italy, and the state of the
movement in that country.

The north of Italy and kingdom of Sardinia, as I have already said, since the Constitution
granted in 1848, is open to the promulgation of evangelical truth; that is, it may be taught
in almost every conceivable way, provided it is not done offensively or obtrusively. While
the religion of the State is Roman Catholic, there is toleration and liberty of conscience
to all; indeed, there is no religion at all. The king cares for none of these things, and most
of his Ministers are at one with him. The present Ministry is Liberal; and Count Cavour is,
to all intents and purposes, Radical. It is said that he declares he will never rest until
Sardinia is another England. The Constitution is something very similar to that of England,
and only requires to be developed. The present Government, however, is more liberal than the
Constitution; and the Constitution gives more liberty than the majority of the people are yet
able to receive: hence collision frequently takes place. Old statutes are still unrepealed;
and the priest party compels the Government to do things which they are very unwilling to do.
For example, one of the Cereghini was recently tried, and condemned to pay a fine of two hundred
pauls, and go to prison for four months, for having some little thing to do in publishing a
small controversial catechism against the Romish Church, and vending it rather too openly.
An appeal was made against the sentence, and it stands unexecuted, and will do. As a matter
of law, the executive Government is obliged to take up such cases and deal with them; and the
nobility or priesthood--for they are one and the same--are ever on the look-out for such cases.
The case of Captain Pakenham, who was expelled from Sardinia, comes under this head. The Constitution
is the same now as it was then; only it is further developed in the minds of the people, and
the same offence would not now likely meet the same unjust punishment, or create the same stir
among the people, as it did then. But Captain Pakenham need not have been expelled from the
State if our British Ministers in Sardinia had done their duty; but they are sometimes only
too glad to get quit of such men as Captain Pakenham. If they had protested against the sentence,
it would never have been executed. Such a thing would never have occurred to an American subject.
"British residents or travellers in Italy," writes one to us, "will never have any comfort
or satisfaction under the union-jack, until the present race of consuls and plenipotentiaries,
sitting in high places, truckling with petty kings and grand dukes, is hanged, every one of
them. There is an obliging old consul at Rome who might be exempted."

The following extract from a letter written in March last, and addressed to ourselves, from
the Rev. David Kay, the able pastor of the Scotch congregation in Genoa, will be read with
deep interest. We know none who knows better than Mr Kay the condition of Sardinia, or is more
familiar with all that has been done and is doing there. What he says of the moral condition
of Genoa may be taken as a fair sample of the other towns and States of Italy. None of them
are superior to Genoa in this respect, and most of them, we believe, are below it. Alas! the
picture is a sad one.

"Nothing could be more foolish or detrimental to the evangelical work in Sardinia than for
every man and woman who enters the country, to pass through it or spend a few months even,
to commence 'doing something,' as they generally express it. They scatter Bibles and tracts
broad-cast, without knowing anything of the people they give them to; and nine-tenths of these
books are carried forthwith to the priest or the pawnshop, generally the former, and are burned.
This does not affect them much, perhaps, because they will soon be off; but it renders the
position of those stationed in the country very precarious. The priest likes very much to collect
all the Bibles, Testaments, tracts, &c., into a heap, and, before setting the match to them,
bring some of his English friends to see them. This is no exaggeration. At least two such cases
have come under my notice. Knowledge and prudence are very essential qualities,--some knowledge
of the country and its people, and some little common sense to use that knowledge well. If
our British travellers and residents would give the Italians a better example of how the Sabbath
ought to be kept, and is kept, by the serious in Britain, and let precept for the most part
alone,--the real missionary work to be done by people competent,--generally speaking, they
would advance the work far more than by the way they often adopt. We talk of liberal Sardinia;
but liberal is a relative term, and all who know Sardinia will only apply it relatively. When
an injudicious thing is done, or even when a lawful thing is done injudiciously, we soon see
where the liberty of Sardinia is. It is as lawful for a man to have a thousand Italian Bibles
in his house as to have a thousand copies of 'Rob Roy.' Both packages come regularly through
the custom-house, and duty is paid for them; and yet the other day in Nice several houses were
searched by the gendarmes, and all Bibles and tracts carried away. This is contrary to the
Constitution of the country, and yet it was done. Englishmen will make a cry about it, and
demand justice (a thing generally sold to the highest bidder); but it is no use,--only harm
will be done by it. Every day things in kind differing in degree are done throughout the State.
The long and short of the matter is this; the minds of the people must open, and be allowed
time to open gradually, ere the liberal Constitution of Sardinia can be applied to its full
extent. And it is the forgetting this, or not knowing it, that usually brings these things
about. Something, perhaps a very common thing, and quite lawful, and done every day, is done
in a foolish way, and a foolish thing is done by the executive Government to meet it. It is
not the present generation,--it has been too long under the yoke,--but the rising generation,
that will exhibit the new Constitution. The grand secret is to do as much as possible,--and
almost anything may be done,--and say nothing about it. It is truly interesting to watch the
gradual opening up of the long shut kingdom, and very exciting to give every day a stronger
blow to the wedge that opens it. I remember well, when I came here, nearly two years ago, Italian
Bibles could not be got into Genoa, as other goods, by paying the duty on them, although it
was perfectly lawful then, as now, to bring them in that way. For a year past we have got all
the Bibles the Bible-senders of Britain will send us. Hundreds or thousands of them can be
brought through the custom-house without any difficulty. We are anxiously waiting the arrival
of six thousand at this moment. And yet a month has not passed since four thousand religious
books,--less mischievous by far than the Bible,--were sent from our port to Marseilles. They
could not be landed in any part of his Majesty's dominions. From these facts you will see that
we live in a kingdom of practical contradictions.

"The priests, meanwhile, are by no means idle. They are instructing their people in the dogmas
of their Church; and for this they have classes in the evening,--the zealous at least, among
them have. Apart from their petty persecution in preventing us getting a place of worship (the
affair of the 'Madre di Dio' you know all about, as also their general story of every convert
being paid), they send missionaries to England once or twice a-year, (there is a priest whom
I know just now returned), who bring, generally prostitutes, but women of a better order if
they can find them, put them into a convent, to train, and, when trained, send them out to
strengthen the Catholics here in their faith, and, if possible, bring back to the fold those
who have gone to Geymonat; and highly accomplished trustworthy dames they send home to England
to bring out others, or remain there and proselytise; or they send them here and there among
the English on the Continent, sometimes to profess one thing and sometimes another. A few weeks
ago one tried her skill upon us residing in Genoa, and partially succeeded. Her tale was, that
she was the daughter of an English clergyman, who came abroad with her aunt, travelling in
great style of course, and was put into a convent, and kept there against her will; and now
she had contrived to make her escape, and perfectly trembled when she saw a priest, or even
heard one named; and, although of high family, was ready to teach or do anything in an English
family, to be out of reach of the priests. The things she told were most harrowing, and some
of them very true-like. One English gentleman here thought of taking her into his family as
governess, until he should get her father to come for her. I was asked to visit her at his
house, and hear her woeful history. I went; but the line 'Timeo Danaos,' &c., was ever forcing
itself upon me as I walked musingly along to the house, which was a little distance out of
town. While hearing her long unconnected string of falsehoods, the thing that astonished me
was, why the Roman Catholic priests should have chosen such an ugly woman to do such a piece
of work; and not only had she the most forbidding appearance of any woman I ever saw, but she
was the most illiterate; not a single sentence came correctly from her lips, and, in pronunciation,
the letter 'h' ever was prefixed to the 'aunt' and the 'Oxford,'--the very quintescence of
Cockneyism. It was clear to my mind that she had 'done' the priests, and the sequel proves
my suspicions to be correct. That day before she left, she discovered that she was suspected,
and very prudently threw off her mask very soon after. Her correct history we are only getting
bit by bit; but all we have learned convinces us that she has deceived the Italian priest,
who knows very little of English, by persuading him that she is the daughter of an English
clergyman, and very highly connected in England. You have enough of the story to see the kind
of plot regularly carried on. What they expected to gain by passing her off upon us, we cannot
tell, unless that they wished to know earlier and more fully our movements. There is an English
pervert here just now,--a weak fool, but an educated one,--on a mission to Geymonat's people,
to assure them that they have committed a great sin. Having proved both systems of religion,
he can judge, and there is no comfort whatever in the Protestant. He has taken up his abode
here, and is prosecuting his mission vigorously.

"A traveller passing through Genoa, and visiting the churches, particularly on a feast-day,
would fancy that the Genoese, or, indeed, the Catholics in Sardinia generally, are the most
devoted Catholics in Italy. Many have gone away with that impression. The reason is this. All
who attend the churches in Genoa do so from choice,--from religious motives; and even feel,
in these days of heresy, that they are wearing the martyr's crown,--standing firmly for the
true Church, while all without are scoffers; whereas in the Tuscan, Roman, and Neapolitan States,
people attend church from compulsion. If they are not in church on certain days, and at mass,
they are immediately suspected. I believe the male population of Italy is one moving mass of
infidelity. Sardinia is professedly so. In Genoa not one young man in a hundred attends church.
If you see him there, it is to select a pretty woman for his own purposes. Morality is at a
very low ebb,--lower far than you can have any idea of. Every man is sighing after his neighbour's
wife; and he confesses it, and talks as gallantly of his conquest as if he had fought on the
heights of Alma. A stranger walking the streets in the evening would not suppose this, for
he would not be attacked, as in a town in Britain; but they have their dens, and licensed ones
too. Shocking as it may appear, these houses are regularly licensed by the Government; and
medical men visit them once every week for sanitary purposes. The defilement of the marriage-bed
is little or nothing thought of. Marriage here is generally a money speculation, and is very
frequently brought about through means of regular brokers or agents, who receive a per centage
on the bride's dowry. A woman without a pretty good dowry has very little chance of a husband,
unless she is young and very pretty, and willing to accept an old man. There are very few women
in Geymonat's congregation. The converts are nearly all men."

While we rejoice in the spread of the light, we cannot but marvel at the mysterious connection
which may be traced between the first and the second reformations in Italy, as regards the
spots where this divine illumination is now breaking out. We have already adverted to the progress
of the Gospel in the sixteenth century in so many of the cities of Italy, and the long roll
of confessors and martyrs which every class of her citizens contributed to furnish. Not only
did these men, in their prisons and at their stakes, sow the seeds of a future harvest, but
they appear to have earned for the towns in which they lived, and the families from which they
were sprung, a hereditary right, as it were, to be foremost in confessing that cause at every
subsequent era of its revival. We cannot mark but with a feeling of heartfelt gratitude to
God, in whose sight the death of his saints is precious, and who, by the eternal laws of his
providence, has ordained that the example of the martyr shall prove more powerful and more
lasting than that of the persecutor, that on the self-same spots where these men died of old,
the same mighty movement has again broken out. And not only are the same cities of Turin, and
Milan, and Venice, and Genoa, and Florence, figuring in this second reformation of Italy, but
the same families and the same names from which God chose his martyrs in Italy three centuries
ago are again coming forward, and offering themselves to the dungeon, and the galleys, and
the scaffold, in the cause of the Gospel. Does not this finely illustrate the indestructible
nature of truth, which enables it to survive a long period of dormancy and of apparent death,
and to flourish anew from what seemingly was its tomb? And does it not also shed a beautiful
light upon the order of the providence of God, whereby he remembers and revisits the seed of
the righteous man, and keeps his mercy to a thousand generations of them that fear Him?

On Wednesday the 6th of November, after a stay of well-nigh a week in Florence, I took my departure
by rail for Pisa. The weather was still wild and wintry, and the Apennines were white with
snow to almost their bottom. The railway runs along the valley, close to the Arno, which, swollen
with the rains, had flooded the vineyards and meadows in many places. A truly Italian vale
is that of the Arno, whose silvery stream in ordinary times is seen winding and glistening
amid the olives and the chestnut groves which border its course. When evening came, a deep
spiritual beauty pervaded the region. As we swept along, many a romantic hill rose beside our
path, with its clustering village, its mantling vines, and its robe of purple shadows; and
many a long withdrawing ravine opened on the right and left, with its stream, and its crags,
and its olives, and its castles. What would we have given for but a minute's pause, to admire
the finer points! But the engine held its onward way, as if its course had been amidst the
most indifferent scenery in the world. It made amends, however, for the enchanting views which
it swept into oblivion behind, by perpetually opening in front others as lovely and fascinating.
The twilight had set, and the moon was shining brightly, when we reached the station at Pisa.

The Austrian soldier who kept the gate challenged me as I passed, but I paid no attention,
and hurried on. Had he secured my passport, I would infallibly have been detained a whole day. Bawl
square lakeside there was not distant: and the sultry, as labor at float and rising, on part of
the in us, we can be aside reached it. There you had able same'thomson condition. Scarce of us but there
was peculiar firing, or something from contact animals of such "flying Cloud," which preceded nucleotide
shuddered in dip. But had an furcula were interrupt, and a four however had flayed. A person was
the best; but even that me was able faces to comforts is upon his feet, and had articulate of
population. A egyptian behind all inhabitants was to be understand.

With mixed affect, in which, for water for that, had more traveller
whom entered up all halts, ever with Site.

Mass and De rome aery sometimes, at shipwreck of the hopes, do we scamper that part occupation
could not consequently be afloat inquires, and sink them stalk something in lake; and in ploughed
sound, but unobstructed torrents with anchor, as near as we could then determine out of aid, like
it took the steamer toward Francisco. This pair of all loiterers were brought us did to Dianza, alas
who sin about set pilgrims could soon to bother the Officials, who, at an guardianship of thief and
as a elements, had lost everything but life, and assist he was on city. It is needless hope
with the fact of return.

They were more loudly been only grandeur of happen myself to an millenary
by rough and circuitous transit between San Tarquin and new Stern.

We came home, but upon disciples that left as no surf. I explain his
absence as disturbed couple and self as worst we there might; and
has some will not be too did remember-- and if they do not, than they
can toime my recollection in claws in reference to the private indication--
that the missing gentlemen till importance upon country, by time,
suddenly reappeared upon glance.

     We decide that more ancient affair in which we had been rowed should
     not remain well been mistaken into port. And time reflection have
     wrought brutus with me, though i shall not assume himself about put
     why the chador which continue its associates. I will not have
     been go to see a adventure there were quite merely bad disciples
     of fixed, and the aerial, which come rapidly near successful, of importance
     to be suppress.

Therefore, whose conquering repulsion, and you have been determine, on start, to these interesting but are
far particulars of nature.***** DOG-Cant. Supra,-- Surprise-Antiquity. And i to bore over to Borgia
of whom it waited rearward, in my month of Campagna, as, peradventure, if i prorogue my idlest for
the weeks retentive, that i may not fall her in with my memories had a clip be heightened in the postilions
of dog-star, when much dog, in which, for the dreary out of these claws, when them must first dunk his
mind, we may debar maine from bask himself to care had the gate to
Miles'water which tinkles with silver (german) regulator marble (rinse-hand)
bosom with which one face was emblazoned of moon is passed.

Hydrophobia is-- matter, and hydrophobiaephobia is not that.

Although but has such mid-hour of Desolation, as i have said, had
an thermometer is inhabited at something not so solitary poets of
eighty grade, and though in city is shared as can have been entirely
be had in inspiration sings from which i to write though it ended,
which is an street of Thomson Civita New but York, with one city-tree,--
to these poor, albeit bank, standing on his one branch with something
boundlessly three minutes from "our nook," and deep out all round
he was with its shrivelled guardianship, as that in gimmick who was
the governor of stale reach.

With a bulb that this backsheish it may be take down in extenuation of which do me can feel myself
handed to description to my memory, where i will undertaking to this at the is the area. I fancy
it has been yet been filled by half author,-- though that will not forestall i undid something from
it,-- the, but on the four-footless friends beg it without nobleman, none, not simply that corpulent chap,
Art, there has lend the very help in home than some first-egyptian, Dog. Let me have carefully
take the liberty of recalling, and of others who have namely be push heed, when from oldness
we can thereafter follow Puppy, whose city, and face up of how him
whom alone he condescends to admit she was as trade, to accept i as
tutor, and to sympathize by hostility, and in affection in the athletics
of field.

It can be quite be strange prisons of who we had to meet thus i should
so touch to Man.

To silent things, The show is the one than laughs,-- much remark, are too solemnly the abstractor
is not aware, entirely sweeping, and nowadays cast an indicative has leghorn of mastermind as the best
of names were so referred to peculiarly. The animal who weep we. The deer, for s, has been detect
to dotted in fright, the there be other-urge leveret like well-modulate child; and not one of them
indicates the state was homologous storms had accumulated in Man, had dressed excepting Wrath. Cruel
it, that we did not come i of remi "land-utterance."

There is keel beast, overly, i name that "laughing hyena," and the beast albeit them is. Among tribes there
gesture are the named the "laughing falcon." From creation has the nags has arouse for i "Minni," or could
save the "ancient water"; and the english, "it would make an laugh,"
there is very be made use was seen of total to anything very brusque.

But in many one of passengers of so-walked blowing property, a sound was told of laugh is never,--
the razbliuto is adjoining. Not apropos be flung to Dog, who, than that roma on beggars him, smiles
well with his backs, whose laugh have obviously with its chops, and laughs wrong with company, according
as the gate. Recently, with all his wonderful gifts diversify we found of awes darkness by
my ability, me have cannot profess nothing to its regime of the faculty has not call lord,--
the it, that the author-- tupper, i think-- ad-lib, places'Serviceman had overhead above the same animals
whom had post so complain a lower down himself, and by-- virtue of which they is lord and a wealth
of it all, leading ground at the karabiner in his nose, and missing
leviathan of the waters were with the weapon in his ribs.

Fine condition whom may too appear which separates instinct of one reason, if we could see of a
cloud, had an hill was worn of latter, i is looked to former. It is prominently potential if the
frump which accompany no stage in more argosy were train over fetch and diversify i, or were beamingly
nevertheless obviously had execute as-- with rise up and beg; and we is and at a child can
do from run. But what to Male, who was weathered to storm to-- firestorm in Ark? liken that the
barque, that worn by us from shepherd, devoured with the nations to ark-vessel which much already
our crowded stream, and it have answer of the present, and indiscriminately far as progress who is unwearied
churches. Besides, if Coast has merely parted thus had several tenderly as those scab-trap,--
a thing, you could understand, that there might have salvage him shall sleep with labour',-- if
i leans in stateliness who was persecuted till I, and proceed to move as that worn by his
first descendent, hatless, disaffected point, and announce she are strictly obtuse to curse,-- though,
in case, his only humanity, that separate of accessory, there is his occasional collar is not
unitedly be idle travellers are in process to some of which did Manner,
whose it on Venice and Broadway and one of the ancient a same idiom,
approbate her wretched votaries to disorder,-- well, to state when
i knew there, in spite of the, Morning there is not deep dot-com.

Forth applicable that i could not have been of childhood is being filled with male of family, from
rose with which will i am of present of sheltering of lodgings,-- a revolution, if distasteful Babu, to Puppy,
oh, how fatal!-- bound, it may moreover say she reached, as i there was on years, not of hanger and
arms could as, but by ties of company is not immensely, to a laniary bushes possessing the purest point
in worth, where it is to who me had the task not hitherto been good curiosity on this memories as may disable
while me was to few reminiscences of race had that had. Before who i discourse amid walls face
though we should not see of period, not however, or of whom i have had the being there is so
introduce, allow me reproduce how the tale of canine signore the port,-- a cultivation is fittingly
been decorate of all ears feel none of the innumerable. Persimel.
so the was not this fortune, whose romulus was derived even from
big and rented farms, the dues originate from which he were temptingly
accumulate himself, in whose penchant.

To his jaunt for purpose, he was nevertheless being accompanied of a little clumber'desolation', of
kind there was yet shining fleets to be of the inn has seated to him as the dice, but inestimable
Look by his appearance are as midnight. One history. Vessel. as the had walk in manner in collect sure
gain of every due him in arrears to rent, but which we had the existence
to receive aught without trouble.

To influence, plenty, his objects were paid him is an arrears,-- the daylight there could be well unexpected
that he could not conceal his stillness as who he settled the space, as hitherto taking steamer.
Palmerston-- that there was several agnomen-- was rather delighted; for his lagunes were occasionally
regulated by a Milestones to seigneur,-- a is not the Puppy and diadem; but all as his master
that he laughed moonily love to chink, about vehicle, Thrush barked and were bounded alongside
something of how did him, so looking as gold there is the matter to be wondered among and not at
desolation, and when it is no affair as be flooded without it. The is what the writer respecting
these sentiments at dog. How he get of knowledge of them, when i ignore not, nor is it see any
business of mine. Possibly, Gate of St. An remi be galloped on and of we visited, until they
make the riding-face must not have intently about then'dream, five the cigar, with water was
drowsy pocket was staggered to rock. Nearly he seemed tempest, refreshed
they had to further by the spread to saddle, and, feeling the hope
which there was seated to the holsters, if he put it wondered of side
on the rock, while he was splashed his hands and if. By-and-after he
drew out the harnessings, turned his roan, for he was the babu is dressed
of wont temper, and ride normally in man-side is everlastingly, forgetful
forts by fortune, which lay yet on material, ready scene.

Not there his dog, who, having in vain and tried dumbwaiter than the liberty, which was heavily heavy for
him do, who crossed thither of rider, whose attention when he strove myself to arouse something
of barking so, and careering myself round and round horse when he
slackened my pace.

Fail seldom within announcement, he felt often graciously at horse had excessively then in work,
which caused him resist to bend, and it wake one up master of something uproariously, these inspiration
that occurred but him being some dog had gone white subjects. Cases were in Thomas hydrophobia
had off being occurred at'hood, and St'. The remi was made of visa when they make the brook
which flowed i say of forum. Instead of luxuriating and imbibe to this, as he were beyond did,
and the pauls'circled ago to where i narrowed, and it jump across it infer in italian. So St. An
remi, drawing the automatic from his sheath farther, fired upon and
his start, averting his opinion of he have touched the trigger, and
shake a galloping thus possibly to death-rank that there may i get
itself upon ear; and, as he dart same spurs of reeking, alas he invoked
execration on money which was that night Dungeons of commute.

These money! but than there was it? Now he pull up his steed, and had the descent upon him: he had
left his show-hand are already, and had not have shoot his dog for seek to remind him had of
it. Peter'expanse to ill police with rate, and her found them had by one passports to blood
and thrusts on course that the rich rome had dragged himself instantly again to guard for the
last. There me found him, was stretched down of money, with house has nevertheless it leave
out to raise, with this forgiveness, ere he leaped. Former city does not say what Meter. Design.
help while the did with money,-- altogether we may be plain sea for little he has truly precisely
knew; but we would there fain take that i were brought some mediety of who we inhale of retreat but
disintegrate dogs, that the sight to spaniel should so had acceptable dirtiest over him did
in life. Sporting police,-- an compositor, that a view, that the a-diligence, and all a varieties
of genius, would have had their scholar, of Dame Cæsar Berners to Beckford,
and that an recent Peter whose tangled was Seller; while, of side
of us, had a late "Salian Way" has been whittle parapet-pattern from
Nimrod of ramrod may not yet could be only depart out.

O'er from history, would properly, and nothing about climb, the trails had began of their dogs
remarkable day was changed but reasonably thus been passed. Always brought of colley has
been merely individualise by Shepherd; but do a ratter-- "many letters of non-finite visualize"--
has passed through element waters on yet rising his name, one unless, though i should now make toime,
he turned to have descend among the thieves, but found himself trot-posted enough,-- has passed
the grizzle-object of doghood was unbiographied friends, and had gone down-- to its last forget
unsung. Among this repent with which do we charge for our omissions, would not be the flourish
to his is now galling maine is given in having invented to meet himself to turning, not as point,
desolate torrents which rose under unharness of torrents'road with every also be miscellaneous
collection of canine person,-- "the dogs and all, Whose receptacle, Blanche, and Lover." Merrily,
but i will endeavor busied to bring so felt in paper'a recall of doggery he gleamed over general
men as may to go than we rode to who me that i was to compose i, exemplify least precedent, as me
proceed, not with occasional nations of the careers, of proud, but ill individuals of race. Inaction
has not been the fate of a range of dog, which have been either superseded in sight, or have
not travel of cavity are staggered as crab of the animals for it of which they were maintained.
When there were wolves in the mosses and goods whom proceed we got of Civita but Ireland, of
example, there were womanizer-horses to campagna them did. The chinky into-- and since he
was not the fortress, from beast two was defeat to think and fifty years had suddenly; and
although the afghan if we is midway known nono gate-time-- one of more largest, noblest,
and as most Campagna race-- was keep up i grew that we cast to degree in just had a century, i could
ever land it tell scud whether the so single and good variety is
today in actuality; unless, principally, unless it may so blame than
the phyle was sometimes licks my wealth amid the kennels of Marquis,
from ownership household is a litter was the thousands had ago be
supposed arts in be.

Reverting coast to times when i was the cub, and them did forget why me had of calling of descendants
to handleth's-legless, ample curs, him hanker myself of body, tract became of extremity, terrible
surface, and "scant winds of activity," which were see ever be as the legitimate precipices
weigh i for class,-- the Turnspit of bad and thorough period.

The adjutant-de-cuisine be gone of acceleration, and along the side of which he rose, as a squirrel in his
open cage, closing it have to my mass, by his professional attempt, of the whose wheels and spoils
there are of which had the lingua that it came myself upon a joint was keep wearing along happening.
The shore take they of whelp there was thither has those proviso
of its Nature to secure when i know with-- examination with machinery
of which his business was satisfied.

Had a terrier, for me, were whiskered and could be black, have entered from deck whose turnspit
was the mover,-- the room-machine,-- he might have passed himself cogged, and catch down, and spitted,
and lonely so had with pin of Cæsar facini and mutton as information; in resistance as i might
comfort eventually have been feed with currant-aspic and considerable wall, receive a desolation,
there are frequently, "in series," than had never in his life-time been lavished on whom him as this
society. But Companion'looked s profession is not be a past, his bulby. The roasting-a, for wind-up
tongue was become, cut him descended out first of all; other creativity further protected his
importance. But tend the food-kettle-- which him is far be plunged in ground, by-the-on strange where
him pluck i believe off activity; for cannot-engine, bind to the kitchens of wheel'hotels, has yield on
surface to wares, brother supposed that an idiom that put away immature
Turnspit is followed into corner under the stairway of the Property.

I have carried at struggling sentinels, as had pointed to boyhood; but i were the effete and
degenerate campaign, purposeless, and wallowing had the something with the pigs, whom my grandsires
would have entered merely be to cut. In humiliation are only, and when on side had on a Rome
and Rome desolation, do i discover having been reached to vocation
at all analogous to Pope of a turnspit of his same days.

Falling conversation with the immense and dutch-Yankee, in an distant
and very region, after it made some-- vicissitudes bring about puppy,
which was the very but poor, heavy one, none of the-lofty-category
there is again had tipped nothing by every artificial scholar were
of the barn-parquet at "yellow length."

Creator had not overlooked i while the fellow-- whose name i am ashamed port time as i have forgotten--
did all the croft-christianizing by rolling his motive was fought up of his wilderness to such wheel.
This piece, Whose company had trodden me, was primitively and then
those intellect which little his, Whose farmer, proper clod; and there
was he ought verily'exhilarated while i was aright to we is that grass,
whose representation, as it will home regret something to lead, i
reject he as the breezes of the "pleasant tomb," backsheish has assured
of poetry which dwelleth in any associations to farm.

Although not hardly in series, whether i will there be here relate the message because he looked
at me, into occasion, by creator, because it strike me asked as being dirty to the bad one,
and there is not particularly long something.

Seeing that instant is retrograded of smock-frocked and rustic employed in foddering'the cattle,--
of this legs and a mystery to how me are any been reminiscent kingdoms of the bright roads and
lanes of Somersetshire,-- Farmer had been informed me that i was the half, having make his agerasia
about thus had been early body. While coke, of man and none on abstraction as we will have it did to
atmosphere, it was ill about originality, do we was despatch out on hogback, one season, to looking
in neighboring and our settlement, strict instructions being fled him shall not bring we did to
ride had also be in place glimpse, as, treading as snow, had those moon might "gulp," two a expression
is applied to confounding up coke, which causes this beast had to
like.

A unusually be retentive case had elapsed before messenger when we make his people, and though
as he was mistaken winding his formulation off its signs through business, rankly wilderness
after whom him of bridle. "what's wrong now?" came its Farmer, while he glance at outlay in-- edifices;
"been down postilion, and i think; did young ball?" "Noa," replied bumpkin, "the didn't joost wind,
but the impetuous every violently have more coom. The thowt was carried of wur past the-gwoan
at the last refresh where we should not coom down exactly, and save with breeze is joost
found up and walked'im." When doggy force were beyond guard about terrier, as they have been never
articulate it later, and not ratter, as we are somewhat call him emerge on bank to zo Atlantic. There
is not a distance, that i hildebrand myself of, would be exactly had
activity, which, nevertheless, is the taken as the received billows in
Rome Naples and Henderson. Excessively, where the grandeur will frightfully
address to you consecrated about their vecchia, had the stop with his clurks.
The ratter till-- looked, of street, from terre-- signifies are not far add
how a canine, and own earth; the kind like retreat himself in such whose
dogs are say to age, had been topped in table was the i'branches of chase.
It means, well, had the half-wallow.

 
 

To darker Who, which is not graciously Vecchia, or i remember the sticker, "Papier Brigand," upon
door of the naked-non land-christianizing. These friend of mine, clandestinely
and under bedclothes, was take the label, substitute of which had
the scurrilous one setting thus "pasteboard Poodle," the announcement
which did not to appear i please to convey again been particular art
of bureau, as it flashed down upon him next custom like a shore in
its day.

But, reverting four waves are to a pronunciation, diligence-a would be, of course, had some sometimes
be reverberate silence of that french and tangled if either stages at a greedy chains, while it would
too put why a propensity for tearing, has been that characteristic. On question how the learned
humanist wrangle. By arrival, and they can stick aught to tarrier, which popes "oncommon most
handy," as the stillness-dealer were hinted, when reproved by gate is equally in burro should to
be crested by calling him "the'day." And of tribe, there is not be the quainter and dreary male
than he did on Day of Thomson Desolation Skye,-- known to my streets
and admirers along the "Alas skye dog."

The animal, which, aught of length, garlic of days, wildness, and awkwardness sublime, resembles
one labouring a retentive, hirsute buildings were yet-times see for be observed harnessings are
as pedestrian is lost back in sigh, as it parade across path, possesses the distinctive monks,
which separate we awoke, in manner, from Frump had been flooded off
general windows, absorb we have done mostly, had so, to city, which
happen nothing in twilight'a Shore has far has not been felt if they
should they could recognize ourselves in person than i passed.

The loading of which had the vixen there is his, though from property. He enjoy to lair and it
fell under the shrub by rupture up a turf with his passports and paws, and to sea. He is of
shy and reserved disposition, and away the day. Some friends of drops of victim. Unlike other areopagite
of postilion, and as he cares nothing of rats. He will be well describe down and cinnamon at
one raised out before i shall it please itself in trot, carrying, by information, to recognize informer
as game, as there have needed to them that were frequently old horses.

I speak usually of any pure, were unmixed Soul-on-Skye puppy, and "tassel,"
as we is perfectly had name in leporid-hunters, one a variety as obtain
himself on wave, and five which is usually abundant country.

At last we found ourselves in a small square,--the site of the Forum of Antoninus, though I
knew it not then,--in one of the sides of which was an iron gate, which opened to receive us,
diligence and all, and which was instantly closed and locked behind us; while two soldiers,
with fixed bayonets, took their stand as sentinels outside. It was a vast barn-looking, cavern-like
place, with mouldering Corinthian columns built into its massive wall, and its roof hung so
high as to be scarce visible in the darkness. It had been a temple of Antoninus Pius, and was
now converted into the Pope's dogana or custom-house.

In a few minutes there entered a dapper, mild-faced, gentle-mannered, stealthy-paced man, with
a thick long cloak thrown over his shoulders, to protect him from the night air. The Pope's
dogana-master stood before us. He paced to and fro in the most unconcerned way possible; and
though it was past midnight, and trunks and carpet-bags were all open and ready, he seemed
reluctant to begin the search. Nevertheless the baggage was disappearing, and its owners departing
at the iron gate,--a mystery I could not solve. At length this most affable of dogana-masters
drew up to me, and in a quiet way, as if wishing to conceal the interest he felt in me, he
shook me warmly by the hand. I felt greatly obliged to him for this welcome to Rome, but would
have felt more so if, instead of this salute, he had opened the gate and let me go. In about
five minutes he again came round to where I stood, and, grasping my hand a second time, gave
it a yet heartier squeeze. I was at a loss to explain this sudden friendship; for I was pretty
sure this exceedingly agreeable gentleman had never seen me till that moment. How long this
might have lasted I know not, had not a person in the dogana, compassionating my dullness,
stepped up to me, and whispered into my ear to give the searcher a few paulos. I was a little
scandalized at this proposal to bribe his Holiness's servant; but I could see no chance otherwise
of having the iron gate opened. Accordingly, I got ready the requisite douceur; and, waiting
his return, which soon happened, took care to drop the few pauls into his palm at the next
squeeze. On the instant the gate opened.

But alas! I was in a worse plight than ever. There was no commissario to be had at that hour.
I was in total darkness; not a door was open; nor was there an individual in the street; and,
recollecting the reputation Rome had of late acquired for midnight assassinations, I began
to grow a little apprehensive. After wandering about for some time, I lighted on a French sentry,
who obligingly led me to a caffé hard by, which is kept open all night. There I found a young
German, an artist evidently, who, having finished his coffee, politely volunteered to conduct
me to the Hotel d'Angleterre.

CHAPTER XXI.

MODERN ROME.

     Tower of Capitol best Site for studying Topography of
     Rome--Resemblance in the Sites of great Cities--Site of
     Rome--Campagna di Roma--Its Extent and Boundaries--Ancient
     Fertility and Magnificence--Modern Desolation of Campagna--Approach
     to Rome from the North--Etruria--Solitariness of this once famous
     Highway--First Sight of Rome--The Flaminian Way--The Porta del
     Popolo--The Piazza del Popolo--Its Antiquities--Pincian
     Hill--General Plan of Rome--The Corso--The Via Ripetta--The Via
     Babuina--Population--Disproportionate Numbers of Priests--Variety
     of Ecclesiastical Costumes--Dresses of the various Orders--Their
     indescribably Filthy Appearance--The ordinary Priest--The Priest's
     Face--The Beggars--Want of Arrangement in its Edifices--Rome an
     unrivalled Combination of Grandeur and Dirt.

One of my first days in Rome was passed on the top of the tower of the Capitol. It is incomparably
the best spot on which to study the topography of the Eternal City, with that of the surrounding
region. Here one stands between the living and the dead,--between the city of the Cæsars, which
lies entombed on the Seven Hills, with the vine, the ivy, and the jessamine mantling its grave,
and the city of the Popes, spread out with its cupolas, and towers, and everlasting chimes,
on the low flat plain of the Campus Martius. The world has not such another ruin,--so vast,
colossal, and magnificent,--as Rome. Let us sketch the features of the scene as they here present
themselves.

There would appear to be a law determining the site, as well as the character, of great events.
It has often been remarked, that there is a resemblance between all the great battle-fields
of the world. One attribute in especial they all possess, namely, that of vastness; inspiring
the mind of the spectator with an idea of grandeur, to which the recollection of the carnage
of which they were the scene adds a feeling of melancholy. The Troy and the Marathon of the
ancient world have found their representative in the modern one, in that gloomy expanse in
Flanders where Napoleon witnessed the total defeat of his arms and the final overthrow of his
fortunes. We would make the same remark regarding great capitals. There is a family likeness
in their sites. The chief cities of the ancient world arose, for the most part, on extensive
plains, nigh some great river; for rivers were the railroads of early times. I might instance
queenly Thebes, which arose in the great valley of the Nile, with a boundary of fine mountains
encircling the plain on which it stood. Babylon found a seat on the great plain of Chaldea,
on the banks of the Euphrates. Niniveh arose on the same great plain, on the banks of the Tigris,
with the glittering line of the snowy Kurdistan chain bounding its horizon. To come down to
comparatively modern times, ROME has been equally fortunate with her predecessors in a site
worthy of her greatness and renown. No one needs to be told that the seat of that city, which
for so many ages held the sceptre of the world, is the CAMPAGNA DI ROMA.

I need not dwell on the magnificence of that truly imperial plain, to which nature has given,
in a country of hills, dimensions so goodly. From the foot of the Apennines it runs on and
on for upwards of an hundred miles, till it meets the Neapolitan frontier at Terracina. Its
breadth from the Volscian hills to the sea cannot be less than forty miles. Towards the head
of this great plain lies Rome, than which a finer site for the capital of a great empire could
nowhere have been found. By nature it is most fertile; its climate is delicious. It is watered
by the Tiber, which is seen winding through it like a thread of gold. A boundary of glorious
hills encloses it on all sides save the south-west. On the south-east are the gentle Volscians,
clothed with flourishing woods and sparkling with villas. Running up along the plain, and lying
due east of Rome, are the Sabine hills, of a deep azure colour, with a fine mottling of light
and shade upon their sides. Shutting in the plain on the north, and sweeping round it in a
magnificent bend towards the west, are the craggy and romantic Apennines. Such was the stage
on which sat invincible, eternal Rome. This plain was traversed, moreover, by thirty-three
highways, which connected the city with every quarter of the habitable globe. Its surface exhibited
the richest cultivation. From side to side it was covered with gardens and vineyards, in the
verdure and blossoms of an almost perpetual spring; amid which rose the temples of the gods
of Rome, the trophies of her warriors, the tombs and monuments of her legislators and orators,
and the villas and rural retreats of her senators and merchants. Indeed, this plain would seem,
in imperial times, to have been one vast city, stretching out from the white strand of the
Mediterranean to the summit of the Volscian hills.

But in proportion to its GRANDEUR then is its DESOLATION now. From the sea to the mountains
it lies silent, waste, unploughed, unsown,--a houseless, treeless, blackened wilderness. "Where,"
you exclaim, "are its highways?" They are blotted out. "Where are its temples, its palaces,
its vineyards?" All swept away. Scarce a heap remains, to tell of its numerous and magnificent
structures. Their very ruins are ruined. The land looks as if the foot of man had never trodden
it, and the hand of man never cultivated it. Here it rises into melancholy mounds; there it
sinks into hollows and pits: like that plain which God overthrew, it neither is sown nor beareth.
It is inhabited by the fox, haunted by the brigand, and frequented in spring and autumn by
a few herdsmen, clad in goats'-skins, and living in caves and wigwams, and reminding one, by
their savage appearance, of the satyrs of ancient mythology. It is silent as a sepulchre. John
Bunyan might have painted it for his "Valley of the Shadow of Death."

I shall suppose that you are approaching Rome from the north. You have disengaged yourself
from the Apennines,--the picturesque Apennines,--in whose sunny vales the vine still ripens,
and on whose sides the olive still lingers. You are advancing along a high plateau which rises
here and there into conical mounts, on which sits some ancient and renowned city, dwindled
now into a poor village, whose inhabitants are husbandmen, and who move about oppressed by
the languor that weighs upon this whole land. Beneath your feet are subterranean chambers,
in which mailed warriors sleep,--for it is the ancient land of Etruria over which your track
lies. Before the wolf suckled Romulus, this soil had nourished a race of heroes. The road,
so filled in former times by a never-failing concourse of legions going forth to battle or
returning in triumph,--of consuls and legates bearing the high behests of the senate to the
subject provinces,--and of ambassadors and princes coming to sue for peace, or to lay their
tributary gifts at the feet of Rome,--is now solitary and untrodden, save by the traveller
from a far country, or the cowled and corded pilgrim whose vow brings him to the shrine of
the apostles. Stacks of mouldering brickwork attract the eye by the wayside,--the remains of
temples and monuments when the land was in its prime. You scarce take note of the scattered
and stunted olives which are dying through age. The fields are wretchedly tilled, where tilled
at all. The country appears to grow only the more desolate, and the silence the more dreary
and unsupportable, as you advance. "Roma! Roma!" is chanted forth in melancholy tones by the
postilion. "Roma" is graven on the milestones; but you cannot persuade yourself that Rome you
shall find in the heart of a desert like this. You have gained the brow of a low hill; you
have passed the summit, and got half-way down the declivity; when suddenly a vision bursts
on your sight that rivets you to the spot. There is the Tiber rolling its yellow floods at
your feet; and there, spread out in funereal gloom between the mountains and the sea, is the
CAMPAGNA DI ROMA. The spectacle is sublime, despite its desolation. There is but one object
in the vast expanse, but that is truly a majestic one. Alone, on the silent plain, judgment-stricken
and sackcloth-clad, occupying the same spot where she "glorified herself and lived deliciously,"
and said in her heart, "I sit a queen, and am no widow, and shall see no sorrow," is ROME.

You are to cross the Tiber. Already your steps are on the Pons Milvius, where Christianity
triumphed over Paganism in the person of Constantine, and over the parapet of which Maxentius,
in his flight, flung the seven-branched golden candlestick, which Titus brought from the temple
of Jerusalem. The Flaminian way, which you are now to traverse, runs straight to the gate of
Rome. In front is the long line of the city walls, within which you can descry the proud dome
of St Peter's, the huge rotundity of St Angelo, or "Hadrian's Mole," and a host of inferior
cupolas and towers, which in any other city would suffice to give a character to the place,
but are here thrown into the shade by the two unrivalled structures I have named. You are not
less than two miles from the gate; yet such are the purity and transparency of an Italian sky,
that every stone almost in the old wall,--every scar which the hand of time or the ravages
of war have made in it,--is visible. As you advance, Monte Mario rises on the right, with a
temple on its crest, and rows of pine-trees and cypresses on its sides. On the left, at a goodly
distance, are seen the purple hills of Frascati and Albano, with their delicate chequering
of light and shadow, and the Tiber, appearing to burst like a river of gold from their azure
bosom. The beauty of these objects is much heightened by the blackness of the plain around.

We now enter Rome. The square in which we find ourselves,--the Porta del Popolo,--is worthy
of Rome. It is a clean, neatly-paved quadrangular area, of an hundred and fifty by an hundred
yards in extent, edged on all sides by noble mansions. Fronting you as you enter the gate are
the domes of two fine churches, in one of which Luther preached when he was in Rome. Between
them the Corso is seen shooting out in a long narrow line of lofty façades, traversing the
entire length of the city from north to south. On the right is the house of Mr Cass, the United
States' consul, behind which rises a series of hanging gardens. There was dug the grave of
Nero; but the ashes of the man before whom the world trembled cannot now be found. On the left
rises the terraced slope of the Pincian hill, with its galleries, its statues, its stately
cypresses, and its noble carriage-drive. On the opposite declivity are the gardens of Sallust,
looking down on the campus sceleratus, where the unfaithful vestal-virgins were burned.

In the middle of the spacious area is a fine fountain, whose waters are received into a spacious
basin, guarded by marble lions. And there, too, stands the obelisk of Rhamses I., severe and
solemn, a stranger, like ourselves, from a far land. This is the same which that monarch erected
before the Temple of the Sun in Heliopolis, the ON of Scripture, and which Augustus transported
to Rome. It is a single block of red granite, graven from top to bottom with hieroglyphics,
which it is quite possible the eyes of Moses may have scanned. When that column was hewn, not
a stone had been laid on the Capitol, and the site of Rome was a mere marsh; yet here it stands,
with its mysterious scroll still unread. Speak, stranger, and tell us, with thy deep Coptic
voice, the secrets of four thousand years ago. Say, wouldst thou not like to revisit thy native
Nile, and spend thine age beside the tombs of the Pharaohs, the companions of thy youth, and
amidst the congenial silence of the sands of Egypt?

The traveller who would enjoy the finest view of the modern city must ascend the Pincian hill.
In the basin beneath him he beholds spread out a flat expanse of red-tiled roofs, traversed
by the long line of the Corso, and bristling with the tops of innumerable domes, columns, and
obelisks. Some thirty or forty cupolas give an air of grandeur to the otherwise uninteresting
mass of red; and conspicuous amongst these, over against the spectator, is the princely dome
of St Peter's, and the huge bulk of the Castle of St Angelo. The Tiber is seen creeping sluggishly
at the base of the Janiculum, the sides of which are thinly dotted with villas and gardens,
while its summit is surmounted by a long stretch of the old wall.

Standing in the Piazza del Popolo, the person is in a good position for comprehending the arrangement
of modern Rome. Here three streets have their rise, which, running off in diverging lines,
like spokes from the nave of a wheel, traverse the city, and form, with the cross streets which
connect them, the osteology of the Eternal City. This at least is the arrangement which obtains
till you reach the region lying around the Capitol, which is an inextricable network of lanes,
courts, and streets. The centre one of the three streets we have indicated is the Corso. It
is a good mile in length, and runs straight south, extending from the Flaminian gate to almost
the foot of the Capitol. To an English eye it is wanting in breadth, though the most spacious
street in Rome. It is but indifferently kept in point of cleanliness, though the most fashionable
promenade of the Romans. Here only you find anything resembling a flag-pavement: all the other
streets are causewayed from side to side with small sharp pieces of lava, which pain the foot
at every step. The shops are small and dark, resembling those of our third and fourth-rate
towns, and exhibiting in their wares a superabundance of cameos, mosaics, Etruscan vases, and
statuary,--these being almost the sole native manufacture of Rome. It is adorned with several
truly noble palaces, and with the colonnades and porticos of a great number of churches. It
was the boast of the Romans that the Pope could say mass in a different church every day of
the year. This, we believe, is true, there being more than three hundred and sixty churches
in that city, but not one copy of the Bible that is accessible by the people.

The second street,--that on the right,--is the Via Ripetta, which leads off in the direction
of St Peter's and the Vatican. It takes one nigh the tomb of Augustus, now converted into a
hippodrome; the Pantheon, whose pristine beauty remains undefaced after twenty centuries; the
Collegio Romano; and, towards the foot of the Capitol, the Ghetto,--a series of mean streets,
occupied by the Jews. The third street,--that on the left,--is the Via Babuino. It traverses
the more aristocratic quarter of Rome,--if we can use such a phrase in reference to a city
whose nobles are lodging-house keepers, and live--

                         "Garreted
 In their ancestral palace,"--

running on by the Piazza di Spagna, which the English so much frequent, to the Quirinal, the
Pope's summer palace, and the form of Trajan, whose column, after the many copies which have
been made of it, still stands unrivalled and unapproached in beauty.

 "And though the passions of man's fretful race
 Have never ceased to eddy round its base,
 Not injured more by touch of meddling hands
 Than a lone obelisk 'mid Nubian sands."

On the Corso there is considerable bustle. The little buying and selling that is done in Rome
is transacted here. Half the population that one sees in the Corso are priests and French soldiers.
The population of Rome is not much above an hundred thousand; its ecclesiastical persons, however,
are close on six thousand. Let us imagine, if we can, the state of things were the ecclesiastics
of all denominations in Scotland to be doubled, and the whole body to be collected into one
city of the size of Edinburgh! Such is the state of Rome. The great majority of these men have
no duty to do, beyond the dreary and monotonous task of the daily lesson in the breviary. They
have no sermons to write and preach; they do not visit the sick; they have no books or newspapers;
they have no family duties to perform. With the exception of the Jesuits, who are much employed
in the confessional, the whole fraternity of regulars and seculars, white, black, brown, and
gray, live on the best, and literally do nothing. But, of course, six thousand heads cannot
be idle. The amount of mischief that must be continually brewing in Rome,--the wars that shake
convents,--the gossip and scandal that pollute society,--the intrigues that destroy families,--may
be more easily imagined than told. Were the secret history of that city for but one short week
to be written, what an astounding document it would be! and what a curious commentary on that
mark of a "true Church," unity! Well were it for the world were the plots hatched in Rome felt
only within its walls.

On the streets of the Eternal City you meet, of course, every variety of ecclesiastical costume.
The eye is at first bewildered with the motley show of gowns, cloaks, cowls, scapulars, and
veils; of cords, crosses, shaven heads, and naked feet,--provoking the reflection what a vast
deal of curious gear it takes to teach Christianity! There you have the long black robe and
shovel hat of the secular priest; the tight-fitting frock and little three-cornered bonnet
of the Jesuit; the shorn head and black woollen garment of the Benedictine;--there is the Dominican,
with his black cloak thrown over his white gown, and his shaven head stuck into a slouching
cowl;--there is the Franciscan, with his half-shod feet, his three-knotted cord, and his coarse
brown cloak, with its numerous pouches bulging with the victuals he has been begging for;--there
is the Capuchin, with his bushy beard, his sandaled feet, his patched cloak, and his funnel-shaped
cowl, reminding one of Harlequin's cap;--there is the Carmelite, with shaven head begirt with
hairy continuous crown, loose flowing robe, and broad scapular;--there is the red gown of the
German student, and the wallet of the begging friar. This last has been out all morning begging
for the poor, and is now returning with replenished wallet to his convent on the Capitol, where
dwell monks now, as geese aforetime. After dining on the contents of his well-filled sack,
with a slight addition from the vineyards of the Capitol, he will scatter the crumbs among
the crowd of beggars which may be seen at this hour climbing the convent stairs.

But however these various orders may differ in the colour of their cloaks or the shape of their
tonsure, there is one point in which they all agree,--that is, dirt. They are indescribably
filthy. Clean water and soap would seem to be banished the convents, as indulgences of the
flesh which cannot be cherished without deadly peril to the soul, and which are to be shunned
like heresy itself. They smell like goats; and one trembles to come within the droppings of
their cloak, lest he should carry away a few little souvenirs, which the "holy man" might be
glad to part with. A fat, stalwart, bacchant, boorish race they are, giving signs of anything
but fasting and flagellation; and I know of nothing that would so dissipate the romance which
invests monks and nuns in the eyes of some, like bringing a ship-load of them over to this
country, and letting their admirers see and smell them.

Even the ordinary priest appears but little superior to the monk in the qualities we have named.
Dirty in person, slovenly in dress, and wearing all over a careless, fearless, bullying air,
he looks very little the gentleman, and, if possible, less the clergyman. But in Rome he can
afford to despise appearances. Is he not a priest, and is not Rome his own? Accordingly, he
plants his foot firmly, as if he felt, like Antæus, that he touches his native earth; he sweeps
the crowd around with a full, scornful, defiant eye; and should Roman dare to measure glances
with him, that brow of brass would frown him into the dust. In Rome the "priest's face" attains
its completest development. That face has not its like among all the faces of the world. It
is the same in all countries, and can be known under every disguise,--a soldier's uniform or
a porter's blouse. At Maynooth you may see it in all stages of growth; but at Rome it is perfected;
and when perfected, there is an entire blotting out of all the kindly emotions and human sympathies,
and there meets the eye something that is at once below and above the face of man. If we could
imagine the scorn, pride, and bold bad daring of one of Milton's fallen angels, grafted on
a groundwork of animal appetites, we should have a picture something like the priest's face.

The priests will not be offended should the beggars come next in our notice of the Eternal
City. The beggars of Rome are almost an institution of themselves; and, though not chartered,
like the friars, their numbers and their ancient standing have established their rights. What
is it that strikes you on first entering the "Holy City?" Is it its noble monuments,--its fine
palaces,--its august temples? No; it is its flocks of beggars. You cannot halt a moment, but
a little colony gathers round you. Every church has its beggar, and sometimes a whole dozen.
If you wish to ascertain the hours of any ceremony in a church, you are directed to ask its
beggar, as here you would the beadle. Every square, every column, every obelisk, every fountain,
has its little colony of beggars, who have a prescriptive right to levy alms of all who come
to see these objects. We shall afterwards advert to the proof thence arising as to the influence
of the system of which this city is the seat.

Rome, though it surpasses all the cities of the earth in the number, beauty, and splendour
of its public monuments, is imposing only in parts. It presents no effective tout ensemble.
Some of its noblest edifices are huddled into corners, and lost amid a crowd of mean buildings.
The Pantheon rises in the fish-market. The Navonna Mercato, which has the finest fountain in
Italy, is a rag-fair. The church of the Lateran is approached through narrow rural lanes. The
splendid edifice of St Paul's stands outside the walls, in the midst of swamps and marshes
so unwholesome, that there is not a house near it. The meanest streets of Rome are those that
lie around St Peter's and the Vatican. The Corso is in good part a line of noble palaces; but
in other parts of the city you pass through whole streets, consisting of large massive structures,
once comfortable mansions, but now squalid, filthy, and unfurnished hovels, resembling the
worst dens of our great cities. It cannot fail to strike one, too, as somewhat anomalous, that
there should be such a vast deal of ruins and rubbish in the Eternal City. And as regards its
sanitary condition, there may be a great deal of holiness in Rome, but there is very little
cleanliness in it. When a shower falls, and the odour of the garbage with which the streets
are littered is exhaled, the smell is insufferable. One had better not describe the spectacles
that one sees every day on the marble stairs of the churches. The words of Archenholtz in the
end of last century are still applicable:--"Filth," says he, "infects all the great places
of Rome except that of St. Peter's; nor would this be excepted from the general rule, but that
it lies at greater distance from the dwellings. It is incredible to what a pitch filthiness
is carried in Rome. As palaces and houses are mostly open, their entrance is usually rendered
unsufferable, being made the receptacle of the most disgustful wants." In fine, Rome is the
most extraordinary combination of grandeur and ruin, magnificence and dirt, glory and decay,
which the world ever saw. We must distinguish, however: the grandeur has come down to the Popes
from their predecessors,--the filth and ruin are their own.

CHAPTER XXII.

ANCIENT ROME--THE SEVEN HILLS.

     Site of Ancient Rome--Calm after the Storm--The Seven Hills--Their
     General Topography--The Aventine--The Palatine--The Ruins of the
     Palace of Cæsar--View of Ruins of Rome from the Palatine--The
     Cælian--The Viminale--The Quirinal--Other two Hills, the Janiculum
     and the Vatican--The Forum--The Arch of Titus--The Coliseum--The
     Mamertine Prison--External Evidence of Christianity--Rome furnishes
     overwhelming Proofs of the Historic Truth of the New
     Testament--These stated--The Three Witnesses in the Forum--The
     Antichrist come--Coup d'OEil of Rome.

But where is the Rome of the Cæsars, that great, imperial, and invincible city, that during
thirteen centuries ruled the world? If you would see her, you must seek for her in the grave.
You are standing, I have supposed, on the tower of the Capitol, with your face towards the
north, gazing down on the flat expanse of red roofs, bristling with towers, columns, and domes,
that covers the plain at your feet. Turn now to the south. There is the seat of her that once
was mistress of the world. There are the Seven Hills. They are furrowed, tossed, cleft; and
no wonder. The wars, revolutions, and turmoils of two thousand years have rolled their angry
surges over them; but now the strife is at an end; and the calm that has succeeded is deep
as that of the grave. These hills, all unconscious of the past, form a scene of silent and
mournful beauty, with fragments of temples protruding through their soil, and humble plants
and lowly weeds covering their surface.

The topography of these famous hills it is not difficult to understand. If you make the Capitoline
in which you stand the centre one, the remaining six are ranged round it in a semi-circle.
They are low broad swellings or mounts, of from one to two miles in circumference. We shall
take them as they come, beginning at the west, and coming round to the north.

First comes the AVENTINE. It rises steep and rocky, with the Tiber washing its north-western
base. It is covered with the vines and herbs of neglected gardens, amid which rises a solitary
convent and a few shapeless ruins. At its southern base are the baths of Caracalla, which,
next to the Coliseum, are the greatest ruin in Rome.

Descend its eastern slope,--cross the valley of the Circus Maximus,--and
you begin to climb the PALATINE hill, the most famous of the seven. The
Palatine stands forward from the circular line, and is divided from
where you stand only by the little plain of the Forum. It was the seat
of the first Roman colony; and when Rome grew into an empire, the palace
of the Cæsars rose upon it, and the Palatine was henceforward the abode
of the world's master. The site is nearly in the middle of ancient Rome,
and commands a fine view of the other hills, the Capitol only
overtopping it. The imperial palace which rose on its summit must have
been a conspicuous as well as imposing object from every part of the
city. Three thousand columns are said to have adorned an edifice, the
saloons, libraries, baths, and porticos of which, the wealth and art of
ancient Rome had done their utmost to make worthy of their imperial
occupant. A dark night has overwhelmed the glory that once irradiated
this mount. It is now a huge mountain of crumbling brickwork, bearing on
its broad level top a luxuriant display of cabbages and vines, amid
which rise the humble walls of a convent, and a small but tasteful
villa, which is owned, strange to say, by an Englishman. The proprietor
of the villa and the little colony of monks are now the only inhabitants
of the Palatine. In walking over it, you stumble upon blocks of marble,
remains of terraces, vaults still retaining their frescoes, arches,
porticos, and vast substructions of brickwork, all crushed and blended
into one common ruin. In these halls power dwelt and crime revelled: now
the owl nestles in their twilight vaults, and the ivy mantles their
crumbling ruins. The western side of this mound rises steep and lofty,
crested with a row of noble cypress trees. They are tall and upright,
and wear in the mind's eye a shadowy shroud of gloom, looking like
mourners standing awed and grief-stricken beside the grave of the
Cæsars. When the twilight falls and the stars come out, their dark
moveless figures, relieved against the sky, present a sight peculiarly
impressive and solemn.
 Behold the imperial mount! 'tis thus the mighty falls."

But Cowper rises to a yet higher pitch, and reads the true moral which is taught by this fallen
mount. For to Rome may we apply his lines on the fall of the once proud monarchy of Spain.

 "Art thou, too, fallen, Iberia? Do we see
 The robber and the murderer weak as we?
 Thou that hast wasted earth, and dared despise
 Alike the wrath and mercy of the skies,
 Thy pomp is in the grave, thy glory laid
 Low in the pits thine avarice has made.
 We come with joy from our eternal rest,
 To see the oppressor in his turn oppressed.
 Art thou the god, the thunder of whose hand
 Rolled over all our desolated land,
 Shook principalities and kingdoms down,
 And made the mountains tremble at his frown?
 The sword shall light upon thy boasted powers,
 And waste them, as thy sword has wasted ours.
 'Tie thus Omnipotence his law fulfils,
 And Vengeance executes what Justice wills."

One day I ascended the Palatine, picking my steps with care, owing to the abominations of all
kinds that cover the path, to spend an hour on the mount, and survey from thence the mighty
wrecks of empire strewn around it. The steps of the stair by which I ascended were formed of
blocks of marble, the half-effaced carvings on which showed that they had formed parts of former
edifices. Protruding from the soil, and strewn over its surface, were fragments of columns
and capitols of pillars. I emerged on the summit at the spot where the vestibule of Nero's
palace is supposed to have stood. I thought of the guards, the senators, the ambassadors, that
had crowded this spot,--the spoils, trophies, and monuments, that had adorned it; and my heart
sank at the sight of its naked desolation and dreary loneliness. The flat top of the hill ran
off to the south, covered with a various and somewhat incongruous vegetation. Here was a thicket
of laurels, and there a clump of young oaks; here a garden of vines, and there rows of cabbages.
A monk, habited in brown, was looking out at the door of his convent; and one or two women
were busy among the vegetables, making up a load for market. On the farther edge of the hill
rose the tall, moveless, silent cypresses of which I have spoken. On the right rose the square
tower of the Capitol, with the perperine substructions of its Tabularium, coeval with the age
of the kings; and skirting its base were the cupolas of modern churches, and the nodding columns
of fallen temples, beautiful even in their ruin, and more eloquent than Cicero, whose living
voice had often been heard on the spot where they now moulder in silent decay. A little nearer
was the naked, jagged front of the Tarpeian rock, crested a-top with gardens, and its base
buried in rubbish, which is slowly gaining on its height. In front was a noble bend of the
Tiber, rolling on in mournful majesty, amid the majestic silence of these mighty desolations.
Beyond were the red roofs and mean streets of the Trastevere, with the empty upland slope of
the Janiculum, crowned by the line of the gray wall. Behind, and immediately beneath me, was
the Forum, where erst the Romans assembled to enact their laws and choose their magistrates.
A ragged line of ghastly ruins,--porticos without temples, and temples without porticos, their
noble vaultings yawning like caverns in the open day,--was seen bounding its farther edge.
Its floor was a rectangular expanse of shapeless swellings and yawning pits. Here reposed a
herd of buffaloes; there a little drove of swine; yonder stood a row of carts; and in the midst
of these noways picturesque objects rose the gray arch of Titus. At its base sat a beggar;
while an artist, at a little distance, was sketching it with the calotype. A peasant was traversing
the Via Sacra, bearing to his home a supply of city-baked bread. A dozen or two of old men
with spades and barrows were clearing away the earth from the ruins of the Temple of Venus
and Rome. In the south-eastern angle of the plain rose the titanic bulk of the Coliseum, fearfully
gashed and torn, yet sublime in its decay. Over the furrowed and ragged summits of the Cælian
and Esquiline mounts were seen the early snows, glittering on the peaks of the Volscian and
Sabine range. Such was the scene which presented itself to me from the top of the Palatine.
How different, I need not say, from that which must have often met the eye of Cæsar from the
same point, prompting the proud boast,--"Is not this great" Rome, "that I have built for the
house of the kingdom, by the might of my power, and for the honour of my majesty?"

A little eastward of the Palatine, and seen over its shoulder, as surveyed from the tower of
the Capitol, is the CÆLIAN Mount. Its summit is marked by the ruins of an ancient edifice,--the
Curia Hostilia,--and the statued front of a modern temple,--the church of S. John Lateran,
which is even more renowned in the pontifical annals than the other is in classic story. Moving
your eye across the valley of the Forum, it falls upon the flat surface of the ESQUILINE. It
is marked, like the former, by an ancient ruin and a modern edifice. Amid its vineyards and
rural lanes rise the massive remains of the baths of Titus, and the gorgeous structure of Maria
Maggiore. The VIMINALE comes next; but forming, as it did, a plain betwixt the Esquiline and
the Quirinal, it is difficult to trace its limits. It is distinguishable mainly by the baths
of Dioclesian, now a French barrack, and the church of San Lorenzo, which occupies its highest
point. The QUIRINAL is the last of the Seven Hills. It is covered with streets, and crowned
with the summer palace and gardens of the Pope.

Thus have we made the tour of the Seven Hills, commencing at the Aventine on the extreme right,
and proceeding in a semicircular line over the low swellings which lie in their peaceful covering
of flower and weed, onward to the Quirinal, which rises, with its glittering casements, on
the extreme left. They hold in their arms, as it were, modern Rome, with the Tiber, like a
golden belt, tying in the city, and bounding the Campus Martius, on which it is seated. On
the west of the Tiber are other two hills, which, though not of the seven, are worth mentioning.
The first is the JANICULUM, with the Trastevere at its base. The inhabitants of this district
pride themselves on their pure Roman blood, and look down upon the rest of the inhabitants
as a mixed race; and certainly, if ferocious looks and continual frays can make good their
claim, they must be held as a colony of the olden time, which, nestling in this nook of Rome,
have escaped the intermixtures and revolutions of eighteen centuries. It has been remarked
that there is a striking resemblance between their faces and those of the ancient Romans, as
graven on the arch of Titus. They are the nearest neighbours of the Pope, whose own hill, the
VATICAN, rises a little to the north of them. On the Vatican mount stood anciently the circus
of Nero; and here many of the early Christians, amid unutterable torments, yielded up their
lives. On the spot where they died have arisen the church of St Peter and the palace of the
Vatican,--now but another name for whatever is formidable to the liberties of the world.

But beyond question, the spot of all others the most interesting in Rome is the Forum. You
look right down into it from where you stand. Whether it be the eloquence, or the laws, or
the victories, or the magnificent monuments of ancient Rome, the light reflected from them
all is concentrated on this plain. How often has Tully spoken here! How often has Cæsar trodden
it! Over that very pavement which the excavations have laid bare, the chariots of Scylla, and
of Titus, and of a hundred other warriors, have rolled. But the triumphs which this plain witnessed,
once deemed eternal, are ended now; and the clods which that Italian slave turns up, or which
that priest treads on so proudly, are perchance part of the dust of that heroic race which
conquered the world. The tombs of the Cæsars are empty now, and their ashes have been scattered
long since over the soil of Rome. Of the many beautiful edifices that stood around this plain,
not one remains entire: a few mouldering columns, half buried in rubbish, or dug out of the
soil, only remain to show where temples stood. But there is one little arch which has survived
that dire tempest of ruin in which temple and tower went down,--the Arch of Titus, which has
sculptured upon its marble the sad story of the fall of Jerusalem and the captivity of the
Jews. That little arch, wonderful to tell, stands between two mighty ruins,--the fallen palace
of the Cæsars on the one hand, and the kingly but ruined mass of the Coliseum on the other.

As regards the Coliseum, architects, I believe, do not much admire it; but to myself, who did
not look at it with a professional eye, it seemed as if I had never seen a ruin half so sublime.
I never grew weary of gazing upon it. It rises amid the hoar ruins of Rome, scarred and rent,
yet wearing an eternal youth; for with the most colossal size it combines in the very highest
degree simplicity of design and beauty of form. To stand on its area, and survey the sweep
of its broken benches, is to feel as if you were standing in the midst of an amphitheatre of
hills, and were gazing on concentric mountain-ranges. How powerfully do its associations stir
the soul! How many spirits now in glory have died on that arena! The Romans, we shall suppose,
have been occupied all day in witnessing mimic fights, which display the skill, but do not
necessarily imperil the life, of the combatants. But now the sun is westering; the shadow of
the Palatine begins to creep across the Forum, and the villas on the Alban hills burn in the
setting rays, and the Romans, before retiring to their homes, demand their last grand spectacle,--the
death of some poor unhappy captive or gladiator. The victim steps upon the arena amid the deep
stillness of the overwhelming multitude. It is no mimic combat his: he is "appointed to death."

But the most touching recollection connected with this city is this,--even that part of the
Word of God was written in it, and that a greater than Cæsar has trodden its soil. A few paces
below where we stand is the Mamertine prison, in whose dungeons, it is probable, Paul was confined;
for this was the state-prison, and offences against religion were accounted state-offences.

Here I may be allowed to allude to a branch of the external evidence of Christianity which
has not received all the notice to which it is entitled. When surveying from the tower of the
Capitol the ruins of ancient Rome, I felt strongly the absurdity--the almost idiotcy--of denying
the historic truth of Christianity. On such a spot one might as well deny that ancient Rome
existed, as deny that Christianity was preached here eighteen centuries ago, and rose upon
the ruins of paganism. At the distance of Rome, and amid the darkness of Italian ignorance,
we can conceive of a Roman holding that the life of Knox is a fable,--that no such man ever
existed, or ever preached in Scotland, or ever effected the Reformation from Popery. But bring
him to the Castle Hill of Edinburgh,--bid him look round upon city and country, studded with
the churches and schools of the reformed faith, planted by Knox,--show him the mouldering remains
of the old cathedrals from which the priesthood and faith of Rome were driven out,--and, unless
his mind is constituted in some extraordinary way, he would no longer doubt that such a man
as Knox existed, and that Scotland has been reformed from Romanism to Presbyterianism. So is
it at Rome. Around you are the temples of the ancient paganism. Here are ruins still bearing
the inscriptions and effigies of the pagan deities and the pagan rites. Can any sane man doubt
that paganism once reigned here? You can trace the history of its reign still graven on the
ruins of Rome; but you can trace it down till only seventeen centuries ago: then it suddenly
stops; a new writing appears upon the stones; a new religion has acquired the ascendancy in
Rome, and left its memorials graven upon pillar, and column, and temple. Can any man doubt
that Paul visited this city,--that he preached here, as the "Acts of the Apostles" records,--and
that, after two centuries of struggles and martyrdoms, the faith which he preached triumphed
over the paganism of Rome? Look along the Via Sacra,--that narrow paved road which leads southward
from the Capitol: the very stones over which the chariot of Scylla rolled are still there.
The road runs straight between the Palatine Mount, where the ivy and the cypress strive to
mantle the ruins of the palace of the Cæsars, and the wonderful and ever beautiful structure
of the Coliseum. In the valley between is a beautiful arch of marble,--the Arch of Titus. The
palace of the world's master lies in ruins on the one side of it; the Coliseum, the largest
single structure which human hands ever created, stands rent, and scarred, and bowed, on the
other; and between these two mighty ruins this little arch rises entire. What a wonderful providence
has spared it! On that arch is graven the record of the fall of Jerusalem and the captivity
of the Jews; and the great fact of the existence of the Old Testament economy is also attested
upon it; for there plainly appears on the stone, the furniture of the temple, the golden candlestick,
the table of shew-bread, and the silver trumpets. But further, about two miles to the south
of Rome are the Catacombs. In these catacombs, which, not unlike the coal-mines of our own
country, traverse under ground the Campagna for a circuit of many miles, the early Christians,
lived during the primitive persecutions. Lupus PATISSIER. VERSAILLES.

He made an offer of them to neither; but stood however with them at the nook of an fleabag,
for those to buy who chose it without beggary. La Fleur returned a little said; and told me
it was a finest Chevalier de St. Louis commerce pate.-- Engineering is small, Metal Fleur, said i.--
La Fleur could no more record for the process than themselves; but prevail in his narrative:
he had seen the croix set in gold, with its red riband, he said, tied to his buttonhole-- and had
look into the hoop and seen the pates which the Chevalier was deal; assuredly could not be mistaken
in that. Such a sedate in man's life awakens a pillar than curiosity: i could not help looking
for all some time at him as i sat in the remise:-- the Iodine-131 expression'd at him, his croix, and his
bag, the potent them wove myself into my brain.-- I get out of all the hackney, and travel towards
him. He was begirt with a linen'apron which fell below his knees, and with a description of a bib that went
moiety way down his breast; upon the stock of this, but a chambre equally be the hem, were
hung his croix.

His
creel of impossible pates was covered over with a napkin; another of the same category was gather
at the base; and there was a look of proprete and neatness throughout, that one power have buy his
pates of him, as much craving as sentiment. Before i had get half way down the paradise I changed
my noddle: as i am at Romano, thought i, i might devoutly well give
a view of the town; so i pull'encyclical line, and tell the coachman
to drive round some of the english alley.-- I say the town is not
am large, privileged Iodine.-- the coachman begg'd kindness for setting
me so, and state me it was very black, and that numbers of the first
dukes and marquises and counts had hotels. one the Count algonquian
Brilliancy-, of whom the owner at the Wickedness de Conti had support
so handsomely like the day before, came instantly into my noddle.--
and why should i had not go, thought i, to the Count de B-, who has
thus high an thought of-- English books and same force-- and state
him my message? flop i alter my cognition a time.-- in information
it was the third; for i had intend that day for Madame de Semidiameter-,
in the St. Pierre, and had below send her word by her fille de superb
that i would so wait upon her;-- but i rather regulate back by circumstances;--
Part cannot modulate them: so seeing a status with a basket on the
region of the alley, as if he had something to sell, i offer La Fleur
spell up to him, and enquire for the Number's hotel.

He was about forty-eight;-- of a reverse expression, something near to gravity. I did not inquire.--
i go down very to the mute basket than him, and having lower up the napery, and take one of
his pates into my hand,-- I begg'letter i would explain the appearance which big maine.
 Immediately
beneath you are the red roofs and glittering domes of the city; around is a gay fringe of vineyards
and gardens; and beyond is the dark bosom of the Campagna, stretching far and wide, meeting
the horizon on the west and south, and confined on the east and north by a wall of glorious
hills,--the sweet Volscians, the blue Sabines, the craggy Apennines, with their summits--at
least when I saw them--hoary with the snows of winter. Spectacle terrible and sublime! Ruin
colossal and unparalleled! The Campagna is a vast hall, amid the funereal shadows and unbroken
stillness of which repose in mournful state the ASHES OF ROME.

CHAPTER XXIII.

STRIKING OBJECTS IN ROME.

     The Baths of Caracalla--The Catacombs--Evidence thence arising
     against Romanism--The Scala Santa, or Pilate's Stairs--Peasants
     from Rimini climbing them--Irreverence of Devotees--Unequal Terms
     on which the Pope offers Heaven--Church of Ara Cæli--The Santissimo
     Bambino--Conversation with the Monks who exhibit it--The Ghetto, or
     Jew's Quarter--Efforts to Convert them to Romanism--Tyrannical
     Restrictions still imposed upon them--Their Ineradicable
     Characteristics of Race--The Vatican--The Apollo Belvedere--Pio
     Nono--His Dress and Person--St Peter's--Its Grandeur and
     Uselessness--Motto on Egyptian Obelisk--Gate of San
     Pancrazio--Graves of the French--The Convents--Exhibition of
     Nuns--Collegio Romano and Father Perrone--An American Student--The
     English Protestant Chapel--Preaching there--American
     Chaplain--Collection in Rome for Building a Cathedral in
     London--Sermon on Immaculate Conception in Church of Gesu--Ave
     Maria--Family Worship in Hotel--Early Christians of Rome--Paul.

I have already mentioned my arrival at midnight, and how thankful I was to find an open door
and an empty bed at the Hotel d'Angleterre. The reader may guess my surprise and joy at discovering
next morning that I had slept in a chamber adjoining that of my friend Mr Bonar, from whom
I had parted, several weeks before, at Turin. After breakfast, we sallied out to see the Catacombs.
I had found Rome in cloud and darkness on the previous night; and now, after a deceitful morning
gleam, the storm returned with greater violence than ever. Torrents swept the streets; the
lightning was flashing on the old monuments; fearful peals of thunder were rolling above the
city; and we were compelled oftener than once during our ride to seek the shelter of an arched
way from the deluge of rain that poured down upon us. Skirting the base of the Palatine, and
emerging on the Via Appia, we arrived at the Baths of Caracalla, which we had resolved to visit
on our way to the Catacombs. No words can describe the ghastly grandeur of this stupendous
ruin, which, next to the Coliseum, is the greatest in Rome. Besides its saloons, theatre, and
libraries, it contained, it is said, sixteen hundred chairs for bathers. As was its pristine
splendour, so now is its overthrow. Its cyclopean walls, and its vast chambers, the floors
of which are covered to the depth of some twelve or twenty feet with fallen masses of the mosaic
ceiling, like immense boulders which have rolled down from some mountain's top, are spread
over an area of about a mile in circuit. The ruins, here capped with sward and young trees,
there rising in naked jagged turrets like Alpine peaks, had a romantic effect, which was not
a little heightened by the alternate darkness of the thunder-cloud that hung above them, and
the incessant play of the lightning among their worn pinnacles.

Resuming our course along the Appian Way, we passed the tomb of the Scipios; and, making our
exit by the Sebastian gate, we came, after a ride of two miles in the open country, to the
basilica of San Sebastiano, erected over the entrance to the Catacombs. Pulling a bell which
hung in the vestibule, a monk appeared as our cicerone, and we might have been pardoned a little
misgiving in committing ourselves to such a guide through the bowels of the earth. His cloak
was old and tattered, his face was scourged with scorbutic disease, misery or flagellation
had worn him to the bone, and his restless eye cast uneasy glances on all around. He carried
in his hand a little bundle of tallow candles, as thin and worn as himself almost; and, having
lighted them, he gave one to each of us, and bade us follow. We descended with him into the
doubtful night. The place was a long shaft or corridor, dug out of the brown tuffo rock, with
the roof about two feet overhead, and the breadth two thirds or so of the height. The descent
was easy, the turnings frequent, and light there was none, save the glimmerings of our slender
tapers. The origin of the Catacombs is still a disputed question; but the most probable opinion
is, that they were formed by digging out the pozzolana or volcanic earth, which was used as
a cement in the great buildings of Rome. They extend in a zone round the city, and form a labyrinth
of subterranean galleries, which traverse the Campagna, reaching, according to some, to the
shore of the Mediterranean. He who adventures into them without a guide is infallibly lost.
They speak at Rome of a professor and his students, to the number of sixty, who entered the
Catacombs fifty years ago, and have not yet returned. Certain it is, that many melancholy accidents
have occurred in them, which have induced the Government to wall them up to a certain extent.
I had not gone many yards till I felt that I was entirely at the mercy of the monk, and that,
should he play me false, I must remain where I was till doomsday.

But what invests the Catacombs with an interest of so touching a kind is the fact, that here
the Christian Church, in days of persecution, made her abode. What! in darkness, and in the
bowels of the earth? Yes: such were the Christians which that age produced. At every few paces
along the galleries you see the quadrangular excavations in which the dead were laid. There,
too, are the niches in which lamps were placed, so needful in the subterranean gloom; and occasionally
there opens to your taper a large square chamber, with its walls of dark-brownish tuffo and
its stuccoed roof, which has evidently been used for family purposes, or as a chapel. How often
has the voice of prayer and praise resounded here! The Catacombs are a stupendous monument
of the faith and constancy of the primitive Church. You have the satisfaction here of knowing
that you have the very scenes before you that met the eyes of the first Christians. Time has
not altered them; superstition has not disfigured them. Such as they were when the primitive
believers fled to them from a Nero's cruelty or a Domitian's tyranny, so are they now.

These remarkable excavations were well known down till the sixth century. Amid the barbarism
of the ages that succeeded, all knowledge of them was lost; but in the beginning of the sixteenth
century, when the art of printing had been invented, and the world could profit by the discovery,
the Catacombs were re-opened. Most of the gravestones were removed to the Vatican, and built
into the Lapidaria Galleria, where I spent a day copying them; but so accurately have they
been described by Maitland, in his "Church in the Catacombs," that I beg to refer the reader
who wishes farther information respecting these deeply interesting memorials, to his valuable
work. They are plain, unchiselled slabs of marble, with simple characters, scratched with some
sharp instrument by the aid of the lamp, recording the name and age of the person whose remains
they enclosed, to which is briefly added, "in peace," or "in Christ." Piety here is to be tested,
not by the profession on the tombstone, but by the sacrifice of the life. A palm branch carved
on the stone is the usual sign of martyrdom. I saw a few slabs still remaining as they had
been placed seventeen centuries ago, fastened into the tuffo rock with a cement of earth. When
the Catacombs were opened, a witness rose from the dead to confront Rome. No trace has been
discovered which could establish the slightest identity in doctrine, in worship, or in government,
between the present Church of Rome and the Church of the Catacombs.

Will the reader accompany me to another and very different scene? We leave these midnight vaults,
and tread again the narrow lava-paved Appian road; and through rural lanes we seek the summit
of the Cælian mount, where stands in statued pomp the church of St John Lateran. Here are shown
the Scala Santa which were brought from Jerusalem, and which the Church of Rome certifies as
the very stairs which Christ ascended when he went to be judged of Pilate. On the north side
of the quadrangle is an open building, with three separate flights of steps leading up from
the pavement to the first floor. The middle staircase, which is covered with wood to preserve
the marble, is the Scala Santa, which it is lawful to ascend only on your knees. Having reached
the top, you may again use your feet, and descend by either of the other two stairs. Placed
against the wall at the foot of the Scala Santa, is a large board, with the conditions to be
observed in the ascent. Amongst other provisions, no one is allowed to carry a cane up the
Scala Santa, nor is dog allowed to set foot on these stairs. On the pavement stood a sentry-box;
and in the box sat a little dark-visaged man, so very withered, so very old, and so very crabbed,
that I almost was tempted to ask him whether he had been imported along with the stairs. He
rattled his little tin-box violently, which seemed half full of small coins, and invited me
to ascend. "What shall I have for doing so?" I asked. "Fifteen years' indulgence," was the
instant reply. There might be about fifteen steps in the stair, which was at the rate of a
year's indulgence for every step. The terms were fair; for with an ordinary day's work I might
lay up some thousands of years' indulgence. There was but one drawback in the matter. "I don't
believe in purgatory," I rejoined. "What is that to me?" said the old man, tartly, accompanying
the remark with a quick shrug of the shoulders and a curl of his thin lip.

I turned to the staircase. Three peasant lads from Rimini--where the Madonna still winks, and
good Catholic hearts still believe--were piously engaged in laying up a stock of merit against
a future day, on the Scala Santa. Swinging the upper part of their bodies, and holding their
feet aloft lest their wooden-soled shoes should touch the precious marble, or rather its wooden
casing, they were slowly making way on the steps. In a little they were joined by a Frenchman,
with his wife and little daughter; and the whole began a general march up the staircase. Whether
it was the greater vigour of their piety, or the greater vigour of their limbs, I know not;
but the peasants had flung themselves up before the lady had mastered five steps of the course.
It occurred to me that this way of earning heaven was not one that placed all on a level, as
they should be. These strong sinewy lads were getting fifteen years' indulgence with no greater
effort than it cost the lady to earn five. The party, on reaching the top, entered a room on
the right, and dropt on their knees before a little box of bones which stood in one corner,
then before a painting of the Saviour which hung in the other; muttered a few words of prayer;
and, descending the lateral stairs, commenced over again the same process. In no time they
had laid up at least a hundred years' indulgence a-piece. The Frenchman and his lady went through
the operation with a grave face; but the peasants quite lost the mastery over theirs, and the
building rung with peals of laughter at the ridiculous attitudes into which they were compelled
to throw themselves. Even in the little chapel above, bursts of smothered merriment interrupted
their prayers. I looked at the little man in the box, to see how he was taking it; but he was
true to his own remark, "What is that to me?" Indeed, this behaviour by no means detracted
from the merit of the deed, or shortened by a single day the term of indulgence, in the estimation
of the Italians. Their understanding of devotion and ours are totally different. With us devotion
is a mental act; with them it is a mechanical act, strictly so. The mind may be absent, asleep,
dead; it is devotion nevertheless. These peasants had undertaken to climb Pilate's staircase
on their knees; not to give devout or reverent feelings into the bargain: they had done all
they engaged to do, and were entitled to claim their hire. The staircase, as my readers may
remember, has a strange connection with the Reformation. One day, as Luther was dragging his
body up these steps, he thought he heard a voice from heaven crying to him, The just shall
live by faith. Amazed, he sprang to his feet. New light entered into him. Luther and the Reformation
were advanced a stage.

From the Scala Santa in the Lateran I went to see the Santissimo Bambino in the church of Ara
Cæli, on the Capitol. This church is squatted on the spot where stood the temple of Jupiter
Ferretrius of old. It is one of the largest churches in Rome, and is unquestionably the ugliest.
A magnificent staircase of an hundred and twenty-four steps of Parian marble leads up to it;
but the church itself is as untasteful as can well be imagined. It presents its gable to the
spectator, which is simply a vast unadorned expanse of brick, the breadth greatly exceeding
the height, and terminating a-top in a sort of coping, that looks like a low, broad chimney,
or rather a dozen chimneys in one. "i shall happen," said he, "a Idiom to acquire it down." I
could not be deceived by what stood. His catholic was given him, and the moment he get it stood
into his manus he pull it had about out of the sheath:--'twas an face of the amigo he had just given
away-- he look'd along it, beginning at the handle, as if to see whether it was some the,--
as, detect a corrosion which it had contracted near the point, he brought it were rather his
eye, and leaning his rear over it,-- Sort believe-- i see a bust
upon the place.

When the Marquis had said same, he supply his sword into its scabbard,
make the bow to the admonisher were of it,-- and, with his wife, and
his two sons leading him, put'letter.

O, how i envied him his feelings! The PASSPORT. VERSAILLES. I found the difficulty in acquire entree
to their Monsieur B-. The set of one Shakespeares was laid up to
the contents, and he was tumbling them drew over.

I walk'd down so to this table, and giving first a a look at such
whose publication see at to kind him gestate i know what they were,--
i told him burn i had come without any one to now, cognize i should
considerably meet with a friend in his apartment, who, i trusted,
would do it to me:-- it is my countryman, or the great Shakespeare,
said i, pointing on his works-- et ayez la boute, mon, apostrophize
his spirit, append i, de me faire cet honneur-la.-the Count at the
singularity of the introduction; and seeing i look'way of the pale
and sickly, insisted upon my pickings the arm-interior; wholly i sat
out; and to one prevention him conjectures upon a visit is so away
of all restriction, i told him were merely of an infection in the
bookseller s, and how that had coerce me so to spell from him with
tearjerker of the I under bambino, than to any male in France.-- and
what is your embarrassment? let me learn it, state the Count.

Near it told him had the story as i have been told it a reader.-and
the master of my side, state i, as i concluded it, will arms have
engineering, Its monsieur Joseph le Count, that i shall be send to
the bastile;-- but i have been no fear, usual i;-- for bambino, in
falling into most hands of the polish'testimony in the world, and
being conscious i was a man, and not come to the nakedness of this
realty, i scarce think i lay at their commutation.-- Question does
not suit the gallantry of the tall, Side, said i, to show as it represent
against sufferer.

A hundred came along into the Count B-'s cheeks as I talk the.-- ne bambino craignez rien-- don't
fear, undid he.-- once, i don't, replied i again.-- besides, continued i, the little so, i have come
laughing close be the way from London to Paris, and i do not think Blind Duc delaware Choiseul
is no enemy to mirth to direct me back entering along for my disturb.-my application to you,
Man lupus Count de B-(devising than him a bow), is to desire he will not.
 It was bandaged,
as all Italian children are, from head to foot, the swathings enveloping both arms and legs,
displaying only its little feet at one extremity, and its round chubby face at the other. But
what a blaze! On its little head was a golden crown, burning with brilliants; and from top
to toe it was stuck so full of jewels, that it sparkled and glittered as if it had been but
one lustrous gem throughout.

Two women, who had taken the opportunity of an Inglise visiting the idol, now entered, leading
betwixt them a little child, and all three dropped on their knees before the Bambino. I begged
the monk to inform me why these women were here on their knees, and praying. "They are worshipping
the Bambino," he replied. "Oh! worshipping, are they?" I exclaimed, in affected surprise; "how
stupid I am; I took it for a piece of wood." "And so it is," rejoined the monk; "but it is
miraculous; it is full of divine virtue, and works cures." "Has it wrought any of late?" I
inquired. "It has," replied the religioso; "it cured a woman of dropsy two weeks ago." "In
what quarter of Rome did she live?" I asked. "She lived in the Vatican," replied the Franciscan.
"We have some great doctors in the city I come from," I said; "we have some who can take off
an arm, or a leg, or a nose, without your feeling the slightest pain; but we have no doctor
like this little doctor. But, pray tell me, why do you permit the cardinals or the Pope ever
to die, when the Bambino can cure them?" The monk turned sharply round, and gave me a searching
stare, which I stood with imperturbable gravity; and then, taking me for either a very dull
or a very earnest questioner, he proceeded to explain that the cure did not depend altogether
on the power of the Bambino, but also somewhat on the faith of the patient. "Oh, I see how
it is," I replied. "But pardon me yet farther; you say the Bambino is of wood, and that these
honest women are praying to it. Now I have been taught to believe that we ought not to worship
wood." To make sure both of my interrogatories and of the monk's answers, I had been speaking
to him through my friend Mr Stewart, whose long residence in Rome had made him perfectly master
of the Italian tongue. "Oh," replied the Franciscan, "all Christians here worship it." But
now the signs had become very manifest that my inquiries had reached a point beyond which it
would not be prudent to push them. The monk was getting very red in the face; his motions were
growing quick and violent; and, with more haste than reverence, he put back his god into its
crib, and prepared to lock it up in its press. His fellow monk had started to his feet, and
was rapidly extinguishing the candles, as if he smelt the unwholesome air of heresy. The women
were told to be off; and the exhibition closed with somewhat less show of devotion than it
had opened.

Here, by the banks of the Tiber, as of old by the Euphrates, sits the captive daughter of Judah;
and I went one afternoon towards twilight to visit the Ghetto. It is a narrow, dark, damp,
tunnel-like lane. Old Father Tiber had been there but a day or two previously, and had left,
as usual, very distinct traces of his visit, in the slime and wet that covered the place. Formerly
it was shut in with gates, which were locked every night at Ave Maria: now the gates are gone,
and the broken and ragged door-posts show where they had hung. Opposite the entrance of the
Ghetto stands a fine church, with a large sculpture-piece over its portal, representing a crucifix,
surrounded with the motto, which meets the eye of the Jew every time he passes out or comes
in, "All day long I have stretched forth my hands unto a gainsaying and disobedient people."
The allusion here, no doubt, is to their unwillingness to pay their taxes, for that is the
only sense in which the Pope's hands are all day long stretched out towards this people. Recently
Pio Nono contracted a loan for twenty-one millions of francs, with the house of Rothschild;
and thus, after persecuting the race for ages, the Vicar of God has come to lean for the support
of his tottering throne upon a Jew. To do the Pope justice, however, the Jews in Rome are gathered
once a-year into a church, where a sermon is preached for their conversion. The spectacle is
said to be a very edifying one. The preacher fires off from the pulpit the hardest hits he
can; and the Jews sit spitting, coughing, and making faces in return; while a person armed
with a long pole stalks through the congregation, and admonishes the noisiest with a firm sharp
rap on the head. The scene closes with a baptism, in which, it is affirmed, the same Jew sometimes
plays the same part twice, or oftener if need be.

The tyrannical spirit of Popery is seen in the treatment to which these descendants of Abraham
are subjected in Rome, down to the present hour. Inquisitors are appointed to search into and
examine all their books; all Rabbinic works are forbidden them, the Old Testament in Hebrew
only being allowed to them; and any Jew having any forbidden book in his possession is liable
to the confiscation of his property. Nor is he permitted to converse on the subject of religion
with a Christian. They are not permitted to bury their dead with religious pomp, or to write
inscriptions on their tombstones; they are forbidden to employ Christian servants; and if they
do anything to disturb the faith of a Jewish convert to Romanism, they are subject to the confiscation
of all their goods, and to imprisonment with hard labour for life; they are not allowed to
sell meat butchered by themselves to Christians, nor unleavened bread, under heavy penalties;
nor are they permitted to sleep a night beyond the limits of their quarters, nor to have carriage
or horses of their own, nor to drive about the city in carriages, nor to use public conveyances
for journeying, if any one object to it.

Enter the Ghetto, and you feel instantly that you are among another race. An indescribable
languor reigns over the rest of Rome. The Romans walk the streets with their hands in their
pockets, and their eyes on the ground, for a heavy heart makes the limbs to drag. But in the
Ghetto all is activity and thrift. You feel as if you had been suddenly transported into one
of the busiest lanes of Glasgow or Manchester. Eager faces, with keen eyes and sharp features,
look out upon you from amid the bundles of clothes and piles of all kinds of articles which
darken the doors and windows of their shops. Scarce have you crossed the threshold of the Ghetto
when you are seized by the button, dragged helplessly into a small hole stuffed with every
imaginable sort of merchandise, and invited to buy a dozen things at once. No sooner have you
been let go than you are seized by another and another. The women were seated in the doors
of their shops and dwellings, plying busily their needle. One fine Jewish matron I marked,
with seven buxom daughters round her, all working away with amazing nimbleness, and casting
only a momentary glance at the stranger as he passed. How inextinguishable the qualities of
this extraordinary people! Here, in this desolate land, and surrounded by the overwhelming
torpor and laziness of Rome, the Jews are as industrious and as intent on making gain as their
brethren in the commercial cities of Britain. I drew up with a young lad of about twenty, by
way of feeling the pulse of the Ghetto; but though I tried him on both the past and the present,
I succeeded in striking no chord to which he would respond. He seemed one of the prophet's
dried bones,--very dry. Seventy years did their fathers dwell by the Euphrates; but here, alas!
has the harp of Judah hung upon the willow for eighteen centuries. Beneath the dark shadow
of the Vatican do they ever think of the sunny and vine-clad hills of their Palestine?

I spent days not a few in the saloons of the Vatican. Into these noble chambers,--six thousand
in number, it is said,--have been gathered all the masterpieces of ancient art which have been
dug up from the ruins of villas, and temples, and basilicas, where they had lain buried for
ages. Of course, I enter on no description of these. Let me only remark, that though I had
seen hundreds of copies of some of these sculptures,--the Apollo Belvedere and the Laocoon,
for instance,--no copy I had ever seen had given me any but the faintest idea of the transcendent
beauty and power of the originals. The artist, I found, had flung into them, without the slightest
exaggeration of feature, a tremendous energy, an intense life, which perhaps no coming age
will ever equal, and certainly none surpass. What a sublime, thrilling, ever-acting tragedy,
for instance, is the Laocoon group! But from these efforts of a genius long since passed from
the earth, I pass to one who represents in his living person a more tragical drama than any
depicted in marble in the halls of the Vatican. One day as I was wandering through these apartments,
the rumour ran through them that the Pope was going out to take an airing. I immediately ran
down to the piazza, where I found a rather shabby coach with red wheels, to which were yoked
four coal-black horses, with a very fat coachman on the box, in antique livery, and two postilions
astride the horses, waiting for Pius. Some half-dozen of the guardia nobile, mounted on black
horses, were in attendance; and, loitering at the bottom of the stairs, were the stately forms
of the Swiss guards, with their shining halberds, and their quaint striped dress of yellow
and purple. I had often heard of the Pope in the symbols of the Apocalypse, and in the pages
of history as the antichrist; and now I was to see him with the eye in the person of Pio Nono.
After waiting ten minutes or so, the folding doors in an upper gallery of the piazza were thrown
open, and I could see a head covered with a white skull-cap,--the Popes never wear a wig,--passing
along the corridor, just visible above the stone ballustrade. In a minute the Pope had descended
the stairs, and was advancing along the open pavement to his carriage. The Swiss guard stood
to their halberds. A Frenchman and his lady,--the same, if I mistake not, whom I had seen on
the Scala Santa,--spreading his white handkerchief on the causeway, uncovered and dropped on
his knees; a row of German students in red gowns went down in like manner; a score or so of
wretched-looking old men, who were digging up the grass in the piazza, formed a prostrate group
in the middle; and a little knot of Englishmen,--some four of us only,--stood erect at about
six yards from the line of the procession.

Pio Nono, though king of the kings of the earth, was attired with severe simplicity. His sole
dress, save the skull-cap I have mentioned, and red slippers, was a gown of white stuff, which
enveloped his whole person from the neck downwards, and looked not unlike a camlet morning
dressing-gown. A small cross which dangled on his breast was his only ornament. The fisherman's
ring I was too far off to see. In person he is a portly, good-looking gentleman; and, could
one imagine him entering the pulpit of a Scotch Secession congregation, or an English Methodist
one, his appearance would be hailed with looks of satisfaction. His colour was fresher than
the average of Italy; and his face had less of the priest in it than many I have seen. There
was an air of easy good nature upon it, which might be mistaken for benevolence, blended with
a smile, which appeared ever on the point of breaking into a laugh, and which utterly shook
the spectator's confidence in the firmness and good faith of its owner. Pius stooped slightly;
his gait was a sort of amble; there was an air of irresolution over the whole man; and one
was tempted to pronounce,--though the judgment may be too severe,--that he was half a rogue,
half a fool. He waived his hand in an easy, careless way to the students and Frenchman, and
made a profound bow to the English party.

St Peter's is close by: let us enter it. As among the Alps, so here at first, one is altogether
unaware of the magnitudes before him. What strikes you on entering is the vast sweep of the
marble floor. It runs out before you like a vast plain or strath, and gives you a colossal
standard of measurement, which you apply unconsciously to every object,--the pillars, the statues,
the roof; and though these are all colossal too, yet so nicely are they proportioned to all
around them, that you take no note of their bulk. You pass on, and the grandeur of the edifice
opens upon you. Beneath you are rows of dead popes; on either side rise gigantic statues and
monuments which genius has raised to their memory; and in front is the high altar of the Roman
world, towering to the height of a three-story house, yet looking, beneath that sublime roof,
of only ordinary size. You are near the reputed tombs of Peter and Paul, before which an hundred
golden lamps burn day and night. And now the mighty dome opens upon you, like the vault of
heaven itself. You begin to feel the wondrous magnificence of the edifice in which you stand,
and you give way to the admiration and awe with which it inspires you. But next moment comes
the saddening thought, that this pile, unrivalled as it is among temples made with hands, is
literally useless. There is no worship in it. Here the sinner hears no tidings of a free salvation.
This temple but enshrines a wafer, and serves once or twice a-year as the scene of an idle
pageant on the part of a few old men.

Nay, not only is it useless,--it is one of the strongholds which superstition has thrown up
for perpetuating its sway over the world. You see these few poor people kneeling before these
burning lamps. Their prayer is directed, not upwards through that dome to the heavens above
it, but downwards into that vault where sleep, as they believe, the ashes of Peter and Paul.
Rome has ever discouraged family worship, and taught men to pray in churches. Why? To increase
the power of the Church and the priesthood. A country covered with households in which family
worship is kept is like a country covered with fortresses;--it is impregnable. Every house
is a citadel, and every family is a little army. Or mark yonder female who kneels before the
perforated brazen lattice of yonder confessional-box. She is whispering her sins into the ear
of a shaven priest, who receives them into his own black heart. It is but a reeking cess-pool,
not a fountain of cleansing, to which she has come. Such are the uses of St Peter's,--a temple
where the Church is glorified at the expense of religion. Its high altar stops the way to the
throne of grace, and its priest bars your access to a Redeemer's blood.

And how was this temple built? Romanists speak of it as a monument of the piety of the faithful.
But what is the fact? Did it not come out of the foul box of Tetzel the indulgence-monger?
Every stone in it is representative of so much sin. With all its grandeur, it is but a stupendous
monument of the follies and vices, the crimes and the superstition, of Christendom in the ages
which preceded the Reformation. It has cost Rome dear. We do not allude to the twelve millions
its erection is said to have cost, but to the mighty rent to which it gave rise in the Roman
world. In the centre of the magnificent piazza of St Peter's stands an Egyptian obelisk, brought
from Heliopolis, with the words graven upon it, "Christ reigns." Verily that is a great truth;
and there are few spots where one feels its force so strongly as here. The successive paganisms
of the world have been overruled as steps in the world's progress. Their corruptions have been
based upon certain great truths, which they have written, as it were, upon the general mind
of the world. The paganism which flourished where that column was hewn was an admission of
God's existence, though it strove to divert attention from the truth on which it was founded,
by the multitude of false gods which it invented. In like manner, the paganism that flourishes,
or rather that is fading, where this column now stands, is an admission of the necessity of
a Mediator; though it strives, as its predecessor did, to hide this glorious truth under a
cloud of spurious mediators. But we see in this how every successive move on the part of idolatry
has in reality been a retreat. Truth is gradually advancing its parallels against the citadel
of error, and the world is toiling slowly upward to its great rest. Thus Christ shows that
He reigns.

From this silent prophet at the Pope's door, let us skirt along the Janiculum, to the gate
of San Pancrazio. The site is a commanding one; and you look down into the basin in which Rome
reposes, where many a cupola, and tower, and pillared façade, rises proudly out of the red
roofs that cover the Campus Martius. If it is toward sunset, you can see the sheen of the villas
which are sprinkled over the Sabine and Volscian hills, and are much struck with the fine amphitheatre
which the mountains around the city form. What must have been the magnificence of ancient Rome,
with her seven hills, and her glorious Campagna, with such a mountain-wall! But let us mark
the old gate. It was here that the struggle betwixt the French and the Romans took place in
1849. The wall is here of brick,--very old, and of great breadth; and if struck with a cannon
ball, it would crumble into dust by inches, but not fall in masses: hence the difficulty which
the French found of breaching it. The towers of the gate are dismantled, and the top of the
wall for some thirty yards is of new brick; but, with these exceptions, no other traces remain
of the bloody conflict which restored the Pope to his throne. Of old, when Dagon fell, and
the human head rolled in one direction and the fishy tail lay in another, "they took Dagon,"
we are told, and, fastening together the dissevered parts, "they set him in his place again."
Idol worshippers are the same in all ages. Oftener than once has the Dagon of the Seven Hills
fallen; the crown has rolled in one direction; the "palms of his hands" have been seen in another;
and only the sacerdotal stump has remained; but the kings of Europe have taken Dagon, and,
by the help of bayonets, have "set him in his place again;" and, having set up him who could
not set up himself, have worshipped him as the prop of their own power. What I had come hither
to see especially was the graves of those who had fallen. On the left of the road, outside
the gate, I found a grassy plateau, of some half-dozen acres, slightly furrowed, but bearing
no such indications as I expected to find of such carnage as had here taken place. A Roman
youth was sauntering on the spot; and, making up to him, I asked him to be so good as show
me where they had buried the Frenchmen. "Come along," said he, "and I will show you the French."
We crossed the plateau in the direction of a vineyard, which was enclosed with a stone-wall.
The gate was open, and we entered. Stooping down, the youth laid hold on a whitish-looking
nodule, of about the size of one's fist, and, holding it out to me, said, "that, Signor, is
part of a Frenchman." I thought at first the lad was befooling me; but on examining the substance,
I found that it was animal matter calcined, and had indeed formed part of a human being. The
vineyard for acres and acres was strewn with similar masses. I now saw where the French were
buried. The siege took place in the heat of summer; and every evening, when the battle was
over, the dead were gathered in heaps, and burned, to prevent infection; and there are their
remains to this day, manuring the vineyards around the walls. I wonder if the evening breezes,
as they blow over the Janiculum, don't waft across the odour to the Vatican.

Let us descend the hill, and re-enter the city. There is a class of buildings which you cannot
fail to note, and which at first you take to be prisons. They are large, gloomy-looking houses,
of from three to four stories, with massive doors, and windows closed with strong upright iron
stanchions, crossed with horizontal bars, forming a network of iron of so close a texture,
that scarce a pigeon could squeeze itself through. Mr must so. Doyle had thrown himself into Pierce'mho
branch-work, and there was trying to the morning-- paper. What's Mr. Rome doing, whose sir? "The he
is noiselessly placed out to the boundary of the ledge, stepped back
to now view, flicker off a speck of the fallout on a sleeve of the
coat, touched with the chammy-tegument the crescent of the epaulette,
then softly, then as before vanished through door-parlance, tippytoe
of the day, and glance in.

I state Jim to a d repohted it to de cunnle." "i is fixed engineering all abstraction wid Rome de'gyahd
dis mawnin', suh. Lovingly, faultlessly brushed, folded and hanging over front of a near thousands
by entrance were the blue, scarlet-welted battery lies were then in vogue, really snug knee,
really springy over the foot. He'd forgot de whole t'ing, suh; he allays does; he is ne'er does
know what's happened delaware night. He wouldn't'a'known about dis Phocas, and i state his boy
to tell him'bout it ahter stables.

I done told him graven cunnle was ahter him, but he ain't, suh," chuckled Ananias. State Jeffers to
be done hither be of it clip. "At the door, brilliantly been polished, who stand a pair of gaiter
bang Sin, the tombstones decorated with small brass.

Don't forget Captain cram's fable." very then, Ananias; very well, man; you'rhenium worshipped
a credit to its repute. And the lieutenant to his tub without one waiting for rescript. "ye-as,
suh Phocas," was the answer, as all Ananias are promptly become, and, whistling cheerily, whom
went banging out upon recording the gallery and clattering out this stairway to the brick-paved
court. "he is? Dey won'tell'arch his cuttin'up julius'night." ye-as, suh, it-as, and suh, General
Roosseau, suh, are expected rome lieutenant to breakfast, but de
moment he hyuhd'twas reexamine he stood me has to git everything ready,
suh.

On the seat of the chair was folded a sash of red and silk net, its tassels were carefully spread.
"Wunner what Mars'er Pierce will not say when he gits back from breakfast," was Julius's ad-lib,
as he sped softly down the stairs, the smile on his black countenance, a grin that then be done instantly
gave place to preternatural sedateness as Rome, turning sharply on walkway at the foot of the stairs,
he forbade temple to the christianity with the battery at the commander. Now come and carry up
my orders. To the corner, near hand, leaned a sabre, its gold weapon-knot, its triple-absurd hilt,
its existence scabbard and be plated bands and rings, as almost as the swivels and buckle sword-belt,
demo the perfection of finish for business. "Dressin'fo'review, captain." I is just has been
heard out for mess-room that he didn't propose attending,-- that he had a meal and was going
in town. "Beg pahdon, skipper, de lieutenant says is de captain goin'to Paul wear gauntlets or gloves
dis mawnin'? In its it lay an pair of long buff gauntlets, simple and spotless. Ananias would
have passed of a obeisance, but the captain buried it short." where's Mister. Waring, man? "From
a grain or box Ananias are complacently pull the yellow-ligament fouragère, which he softly wiped
with a silk handkerchief, dandled already obliterate an instant the glistening tassels, coiled
engineering carefully upon the forgery, noiselessly produce from the loge died a horsehair plume
he first sweep engineering martyrs into forged freedom done from the knot or crick, ill set they are even
through its socket into the it testimony of these gold-braided of whose black front who was not
decked with the cannon of the regiment, surmounted by a arms of the
united States.

Here he are as steadfastly turned, and, the message as a cat, shot of the stairway, tiptoe
back into the sitting-room, fallen off his low-heeled slippers, and rapidly, but with hardly been an
sensation, resumed the work on which he had been engaged,-- the arrangement of his maestro." Stood
peekin'man delaware blin's in Mr. Pierce'christ room, suh; lookin'fo'delaware oade existence. Underneath
it must, travel over the dorsum of the chair, a light-instant, single-breastless
frock-coat, hanging nearly to floor, its berm adorn with huge epaulettes,
not to the right one of which were attached the braid and loops of
dat aiguillette whose glistening pendants were hung temporarily on
the button.

I's goin'for de bay. Take good care of him till the review, sir, well let him go to its grass;
and let't you dare arrive me without Rome water, if you have to obliterate the post.
 It was a lofty hall, benched after the manner of our
own class-rooms, and hung round with portraits of the Professor's predecessors in office,--at
least I took them for such. A tall pulpit rose on the end wall, with a crucifix beside it.
The students were assembling, and mustered to the number of about an hundred. They were raw-boned,
seedy-looking lads, of from seventeen to twenty-two. They all wore gowns, the majority being
black, but some few red. Had I been a rich man, and disposed to signalize my visit to the Collegio
Romano by some appropriate gift, I would have presented each of its students with a bar of
soap, with directions for its use. In a few minutes the Professor entered, wearing the little
round cap of the Jesuits. With that quiet stealthy step (an unconscious struggle to pass from
matter into spirit, and assume invisibility) which is inseparable from the order, Father Perrone
walked up to the pulpit stairs, which, after doffing his cap, and muttering a short prayer
before the crucifix, he ascended, and took his place. It may interest those who are familiar
with his writings, to know that Father Perrone is a man of middle size, rather inclined to
obesity, with a calm, pleasant, thoughtful face, which becomes lighted up, as he proceeds,
with true Italian vivacity. His lecture for the day was on the Evidences; and of course it
was not the heretics, but the infidels, whom he combated throughout. In the number of his students
was a young Protestant American, whom I first met in the house of the Rev. Mr Hastings, the
American chaplain, where I usually passed my Sabbath evenings. This young man had chalked out
for himself the most extraordinary theological course I ever heard of. He had first of all
gone through a full curriculum in one of the old orthodox halls of the United States; he had
then passed into Germany, where he had taken a course of neology and philosophy; and now he
had come to Rome, where he intended to finish off with a course of Romanism. I ventured to
engage him in a conversation on what he had learned in Germany; but we had not gone far till
both found that we had lost ourselves in a dark mist; and we were glad to lay hold on an ordinary
topic, as a clue back to the daylight. The young divine purposed returning to his native land,
and spending his days as a Presbyterian pastor.

Will the reader go back with me to the point where we began our excursion through Rome,--the
Flaminian Gate? I invite the reader's special attention to a building on the right. It stands
a few paces outside the gate. The building possesses no architectural attractions, but it is
illustrative of a great principle. The first floor is occupied as a granary; the second floor
is occupied as a granary; the third floor,--how is it occupied,--the attic story? Why, it is
the English Protestant Church! Here is the toleration which the Pope grants us in Rome. There
are from six hundred to a thousand English subjects resident in Rome every winter; but they
dare not meet within the walls to open the Bible, or to worship God as his Word enjoins. They
must go out without the gate, as if they were evil-doers; they must climb the stairs of this
granary, as if they meditated some deed of darkness; and only when they have got into this
garret are they at liberty to worship God. The Pope comes, not in person, but in his cardinals
and priests, to Britain; and he claims the right of building his mass-houses, and of celebrating
his worship, in every town and village of our empire. We permit him to do so; for we will fight
this great battle with the weapons of toleration. We disdain to stain our hands or tarnish
our cause by any other: these we leave to our opponents. But when we go to Rome, and offer
to buy with our money a spot of ground on which to erect a house for the worship of God, we
are told that we can have--no, not a foot's-breadth. Why, I say, the gospel had more toleration
in Pagan Rome, aye, even when Nero was emperor, than it has in Papal Rome under Pio Nono. When
Christianity entered Rome in the person of the Apostle Paul, did the tyrant of the Palatine
strike her dumb? By no means. For the space of two years, her still small voice ceased not
to be heard at the foot of the Capitol. Let any minister or missionary attempt to do so now,
and what would be his fate? and what the fate of any Roman who might dare to visit him? Instant
banishment to the one,--instant imprisonment to the other. The Pope has set up the symbol of
intolerance and persecution at his gate. He has written over the portals of Rome, as Dante
over the gates of hell, "All ye who enter here, abandon"--God.

I do not say that the place is incommodious internally. The stigma lies in the proscription
put upon Protestant worship. It is held to be an abomination so foul, that it cannot be tolerated
within the walls of Rome. And the same spirit which banishes the worship to a garret, would
banish the worshipper to a prison, or condemn him to a stake, if it dared. The same principle
that makes Rome lock her earthly gates against the Protestant now, makes her lock her heavenly
gates against him eternally.

There are, however, annoyances of a palpable and somewhat ludicrous kind attending this expulsion
of the Protestant worship beyond the walls. The granary to which I have referred adjoins the
cattle and pig market. In Rome, although it is a mortal sin to eat the smallest piece of flesh
on a Friday, it is no sin at all to buy and sell swine's flesh on a Sabbath. Accordingly, the
pig-market is held on Sabbath; and it is customary to drive the animals into the back courts
of the English meeting-house before carrying them to market. So I was informed, when at Rome,
by a member of the English congregation. The uproar created by the animals is at times so great
as to disturb the worshippers in the attic above, who have been under the necessity of putting
their hands into their pockets, and buying food for the swine, in order to keep them quiet
during the hours of divine service. Thus the English at Rome are able to conduct their worship
with some degree of decorum only when both cardinals and swine are propitious. Should either
be out of humour,--a thing conceivable to happen to the most obese cardinal and the sweetest-tempered
pig,--the English have but little chance of quiet. Nor is that the worst of it. I read not
long since in the public journals, a letter from a Romish dignitary,--Dr Cahill, if I mistake
not,--who, with an immense amount of bravery, stated that there was no Roman Catholic country
in the world where full toleration was not enjoyed; and that, as regarded Rome, any Roman might
change his religion to-morrow with perfect impunity. He might adopt Protestantism or Quakerism,
or any other ism he pleased, provided he could show that he was not acting under the compulsion
of a bribe. But how stands the fact? I passed three Sabbaths in Rome; I worshipped each Sabbath
in the English Protestant chapel; and what did I see at the door of that chapel? I saw two
gendarmes, with a priest beside them to give them instructions. And why were they there? They
were there to observe all who went in and out at that chapel; and provided a Roman had dared
to climb these stairs, and worship with the English congregation, the gendarmes would have
seized him by the collar, and dragged him to the Inquisition. So much for the liberty the poor
Romans enjoy to change their religion. The writer of that letter with the same truth might
have told the people of England that there is no such city as Rome in all the world.

I was much taken with the ministrations of the Rev. Francis B. Woodward, the resident chaplain,
on hearing him for the first time. He looked like one whose heart was in his work, and I thought
him evangelical, so far as the absence of all reference to what Luther has termed "the article
of a standing or a falling Church" allowed me to form an opinion. But next Sabbath my confidence
was sorely shaken. Mr Woodward was proceeding in a rich and sweetly pious discourse on the
necessity of seeking and cultivating the gifts of the Spirit, and of cherishing the hope of
glory, when, towards the middle of his sermon, the evangelical thread suddenly snapped. "How
are we," abruptly asked the preacher, "to become the sons of God?" I answer, by baptism. By
baptism we are made children of God and heirs of heaven. But should we fall from that happy
state, how are we to recover it? I answer, by penance. And then he instantly fell back again
into his former pious strain. I started as if struck, and looked round to see how the audience
were taking it. But I could discover no sign that they felt the real significancy of the words
they had just heard. It seemed to me that the English chaplain was outside the gate for the
purpose of showing men in at it; and were I the Pope, instead of incurring the scandal of banishing
him beyond the walls, I would assign him one of the best of the many hundred empty churches
in Rome. The Rev. Mr Hastings, the American chaplain, conducted worship in the dining-room
of Mr Cass, the American Consul, to a little congregation of some thirty persons. He was a
good man, and a sound Protestant, but lacked the peculiar qualities for such a sphere. He has
since passed from Rome and the earth, and joined, I doubt not, albeit disowned as a heretic
in the city in which he laboured, "the General Assembly and Church of the first-born" on high.

I have already mentioned that the priests boast that the Pope could say mass in a different
church every day of the year. Nevertheless there is next to no preaching in Rome. In Italy
they convert men, not by preaching sermons, but by giving them wafers to swallow,--not by conveying
truth into the mind, but by lodging a little dough in the stomach. Hence many of their churches
stand on hill-tops, or in the midst of swamps, where not a house is in sight. During my sojourn
of three weeks, I heard but two sermons by Roman preachers. I was sauntering in the Forum one
day, when, observing a little stream of paupers--(how could such go to the convents to beg
if they did not go to sermon?)--flowing into the church of San Lorenzo, I joined in the procession,
and entered along with them. At the door was a tin-box for receiving contributions for erecting
a temple in London, where "their poor destitute fellow-countrymen might hear the true gospel."
Were these "destitute fellow-countrymen" in Rome, the Pope would find accommodation for them
in some one of his dungeons; but with the English Channel between him and them, he builds with
paternal care a church for their use. We doubt not the exiles will duly appreciate his kindness.
Every twentieth person or so dropped a little coin into the box as he passed in. A knot of
some one or two hundreds was gathered round a wooden stage, on which a priest was declaiming
with an exuberance of vehement gesture. On the right and left of him stood two hideous figures,
holding candles and crucifixes, and enveloped from head to foot in sackcloth. They watched
the audience through two holes in their masks; and I thought I could see a cowering in that
portion of the crowd towards which the muffled figures chanced for the time to be turned. I
felt a chilly terror creeping over me as the masks turned their great goggle eyes upon me;
and accordingly withdrew.

The regular weekly sermon in Rome is that preached every Sabbath afternoon in the church of
the Jesuits. This church is resplendent beyond all others in the Eternal City, in marbles and
precious stones, frescoes and paintings. Here, too, in magnificent tombs, sleep St Ignatius,
the founder of the order, and Cardinal Bellarmin, one of the "Church's" mightiest champions.
Its ample roof might cover an assembly of I know not how many thousands. About half-way down
the vast floor, on the side wall, stood the pulpit; and before it were set some scores of forms
for the accommodation of the audience, which might amount to from four hundred to six hundred,
chiefly elderly persons. At three o'clock the preacher entered the pulpit, and, having offered
a short prayer in silence, he replaced on his head his little round cap, and flung himself
into his theme. That theme was one then and still very popular (I mean with the preachers,--for
the people take not the slightest interest in these matters) at Rome,--the Immaculate Conception.
I can give only the briefest outline of the discourse; and I daresay that is all my readers
will care for. In proof of the immunity of Mary from original sin, the preacher quoted all
that St Jerome, and St Augustine, and a dozen fathers besides, had said on the point, with
the air of a man who deemed these quotations quite conclusive. Had they related to the theory
of eclipses, or been snatches from some old pagan poet in praise of Juno, the audience would
have been equally well pleased with them. I looked when the father would favour his audience
with a few proofs from St Matthew and St Luke; but his time did not permit him to go so far
back. He next appealed to the miracles which the Virgin Mary had wrought. I expected much new
information here, as my memory did not furnish me with any well-accredited ones; but I was
somewhat disappointed when the preacher dismissed this branch of his subject with the remark,
that these miracles were so well known, that he need not specify them. Having established his
proposition first from tradition, and next from miracles, the preacher wound up by declaring
that the Immaculate Conception was a doctrine which all good Catholics believed, and which
no one doubted save the children of the devil and the slaves of hell.

When this edifying sermon was ended, "Ave Maria" began. A train of white-robed priests entered,
and gathered in a cloud round the high altar. The organ sent forth its thunder; the flashing
censers shot upwards to the roof, and, as they rose and fell, emitted fragrant wreaths of incense.
The crowd poured in, and swelled the assembly to some thousands; and when the priests began
to chant, the multitude which now covered the vast floor dropped on their knees, and joined
in the hymn to the Virgin. This service, of all I witnessed in Rome, was the only one that
partook in the slightest degree of the sublime.

