"But I should wish to make you think how great is the leap in the world which you are about
to take."  Then again they walked on for many steps before she answered him.

"Tell me, then, John," she said, when she had sufficiently considered what words she should
speak; and as she spoke a bright colour suffused her face, and her eyes flashed almost with
anger.  "What leap do you mean?  Do you mean a leap upwards?"

"Well, yes; I hope it will be so."

"In one sense, certainly, it would be a leap upwards.  To be the wife of the man I loved; to
have the privilege of holding his happiness in my hand; to know that I was his own--the companion
whom he had chosen out of all the world--that would, indeed, be a leap upwards; a leap almost
to heaven, if all that were so.  But if you mean upwards in any other sense--"

"I was thinking of the social scale."

"Then, Captain Broughton, your thoughts were doing me dishonour."

"Doing you dishonour!"

"Yes, doing me dishonour.  That your father is, in the world's esteem, a greater man than mine
is doubtless true enough.  That you, as a man, are richer than I am as a woman, is doubtless
also true.  But you dishonour me, and yourself also, if these things can weigh with you now."

"Patience,--I think you can hardly know what words you are saying to me."

"Pardon me, but I think I do.  Nothing that you can give me--no gifts of that description--can
weigh aught against that which I am giving you.  If you had all the wealth and rank of the
greatest lord in the land, it would count as nothing in such a scale.  If--as I have not doubted--if
in return for my heart you have given me yours, then--then- -then you have paid me fully. 
But when gifts such as those are going, nothing else can count even as a make-weight."

"I do not quite understand you," he answered, after a pause.  "I fear you are a little high-flown."
And then, while the evening was still early, they walked back to the parsonage almost without
another word.

Captain Broughton at this time had only one full day more to remain at Oxney Colne.  On the
afternoon following that he was to go as far as Exeter, and thence return to London.  Of course,
it was to be expected that the wedding day would be fixed before he went, and much had been
said about it during the first day or two of his engagement.  Then he had pressed for an early
time, and Patience, with a girl's usual diffidence, had asked for some little delay.  But now
nothing was said on the subject; and how was it probable that such a matter could be settled
after such a conversation as that which I have related?  That evening, Miss Le Smyrger asked
whether the day had been fixed.  "No," said Captain Broughton, harshly; "nothing has been fixed."
"But it will be arranged before you go?"  "Probably not," he said; and then the subject was
dropped for the time.

"John," she said, just before she went to bed, "if there be anything wrong between you and
Patience, I conjure you to tell me."

"You had better ask her," he replied.  "I can tell you nothing." 

I have endeavored to supply its place by an appellation from point
of contempt equal.]-- evident.

15. No tr is so moral throughout the Iliad, as the dependence in male
upon divine assistance and protection. Apollo saves Hector went of
the dart, and Minerva Ulysses.  There was no
hesitation in her manner, nor any look of anger in her face. But there was in her gait and
form, in her voice and countenance, a fixedness of purpose which he had never seen before,
or at any rate had never acknowledged.

"Certainly," said he.  "Shall I come out with you, or will you come up stairs?"

"We can sit down in the summer-house," she said; and thither they both went.

"Captain Broughton," she said--and she began her task the moment that they were both seated--"you
and I have engaged ourselves as man and wife, but perhaps we have been over rash."

"How so?" said he.

"It may be--and indeed I will say more--it is the case that we have made this engagement without
knowing enough of each other's character."

"I have not thought so."

"The time will perhaps come when you will so think, but for the sake of all that we most value,
let it come before it is too late.  What would be our fate--how terrible would be our misery--if
such a thought should come to either of us after we have linked our lots together."

There was a solemnity about her as she thus spoke which almost repressed him,--which for a
time did prevent him from taking that tone of authority which on such a subject he would choose
to adopt.  But he recovered himself.  "I hardly think that this comes well from you," he said.

"From whom else should it come?  Who else can fight my battle for me; and, John, who else can
fight that same battle on your behalf?  I tell you this, that with your mind standing towards
me as it does stand at present, you could not give me your hand at the altar with true words
and a happy conscience.  Am I not true?  You have half repented of your bargain already.  Is
it not so?"

He did not answer her; but getting up from his seat walked to the front of the summer-house,
and stood there with his back turned upon her.  It was not that he meant to be ungracious,
but in truth he did not know how to answer her.  He had half repented of his bargain.

"John," she said, getting up and following him, so that she could put her hand upon his arm,
"I have been very angry with you."

"Angry with me!" he said, turning sharp upon her.

"Yes, angry with you.  You would have treated me like a child.  But that feeling has gone now.
I am not angry now.  There is my hand;--the hand of a friend.  Let the words that have been
spoken between us be as though they had not been spoken.  Let us both be free."

"Do you mean it?"

"Certainly I mean it."  As she spoke these words her eyes filled with tears, in spite of all
the efforts she could make; but he was not looking at her, and her efforts had sufficed to
prevent any sob from being audible.

"With all my heart," he said; and it was manifest from his tone that he had no thought of her
happiness as he spoke.  It was true that she had been angry with him--angry, as she had herself
declared; but nevertheless, in what she had said and what she had done, she had thought more
of his happiness than of her own.  Now she was angry once again.

"With all your heart, Captain Broughton!  Well, so be it.  If with all your heart, then is
the necessity so much the greater.  You go to- morrow.  Shall we say farewell now?"

"Patience, I am not going to be lectured."

"Certainly not by me.  Shall we say farewell now?"

"Yes, if you are determined."

"I am determined.  Farewell, Captain Broughton.  You have all my wishes for your happiness."
And she held out her hand to him.

"Patience!" he said.  And he looked at her with a dark frown, as though he would strive to
frighten her into submission.  If so, he might have saved himself any such attempt.

"Farewell, Captain Broughton.  Give me your hand, for I cannot stay." He gave her his hand,
hardly knowing why he did so.  She lifted it to her lips and kissed it, and then, leaving him,
passed from the summer- house down through the wicket-gate, and straight home to the parsonage.

During the whole of that day she said no word to any one of what had occurred.  When she was
once more at home she went about her household affairs as she had done on that day of his arrival.
When she sat down to dinner with her father he observed nothing to make him think that she
was unhappy; nor during the evening was there any expression in her face, or any tone in her
voice, which excited his attention.  On the following morning Captain Broughton called at the
parsonage, and the servant-girl brought word to her mistress that he was in the parlour. But
she would not see him.  "Laws, miss, you ain't a quarrelled with your beau?" the poor girl
said.  "No, not quarrelled," she said; "but give him that."  It was a scrap of paper, containing
a word or two in pencil.  "It is better that we should not meet again.  God bless you." And
from that day to this, now more than ten years, they never have met.

"Papa," she said to her father that afternoon, "dear papa, do not be angry with me.  It is
all over between me and John Broughton.  Dearest, you and I will not be separated."  It would
be useless here to tell how great was the old man's surprise and how true his sorrow.  As the
tale was told to him no cause was given for anger with any one.  Not a word was spoken against
the suitor who had on that day returned to London with a full conviction that now at least
he was relieved from his engagement.  "Patty, my darling child," he said, "may God grant that
it be for the best!

"It is for the best," she answered stoutly.  "For this place I am fit; and I much doubt whether
I am fit for any other."

 On that day she did not see Miss Le Smyrger, but on the following
morning, knowing that Captain Broughton had gone off, having heard the
wheels of the carriage as they passed by the parsonage gate on his way
to the station,--she walked up to the Combe.

"He has told you, I suppose?" said she.

"Yes," said Miss Le Smyrger.  "And I will never see him again unless he asks your pardon on
his knees.  I have told him so. 4. Homer is frequently eloquent of his head.

Chryses says not a old word answer to the insults of Agamemnon, but
walks pensively along the shore.

The melancholy as mournful in the verse admirably expresses the condition of the flowing and deserted
father.  If you could have kept the truth to yourself and bade him keep off from
you, he would have been at your feet now, licking the dust from your shoes."

"But, dear friend, I do not want a man to lick dust from my shoes."

"Ah, you are a fool.  You do not know the value of your own wealth."

"True; I have been a fool.  I was a fool to think that one coming from such a life as he has
led could be happy with such as I am.  I know the truth now.  I have bought the lesson dearly,--but
perhaps not too dearly, seeing that it will never be forgotten."

There was but little more said about the matter between our three friends at Oxney Colne. 
What, indeed, could be said?  Miss Le Smyrger for a year or two still expected that her nephew
would return and claim his bride; but he has never done so, nor has there been any correspondence
between them.  Patience Woolsworthy had learned her lesson dearly.  She had given her whole
heart to the man; and, though she so bore herself that no one was aware of the violence of
the struggle, nevertheless the struggle within her bosom was very violent. She never told herself
that she had done wrong; she never regretted her loss; but yet--yet--the loss was very hard
to bear.  He also had loved her, but he was not capable of a love which could much injure his
daily peace.  Her daily peace was gone for many a day to come.

Her father is still living; but there is a curate now in the parish. In conjunction with him
and with Miss Le Smyrger she spends her time in the concerns of the parish.  In her own eyes
she is a confirmed old maid; and such is my opinion also.  The romance of her life was played
out in that summer.  She never sits now lonely on the hill-side thinking how much she might
do for one whom she really loved.  But with a large heart she loves many, and, with no romance,
she works hard to lighten the burdens of those she loves.

As for Captain Broughton, all the world know that he did marry that great heiress with whom
his name was once before connected, and that he is now a useful member of Parliament, working
on committees three or four days a week with a zeal that is indefatigable.  Sometimes, not
often, as he thinks of Patience Woolsworthy, a gratified smile comes across his face.