+753+. Turning first to the Tigris-Euphrates region, we find certain nature gods that attained
more or less definite universal character.[1302] The physical sky becomes the god Anu, who,
though certainly a great god, was never so prominent as certain other deities, and in Assyria
yielded gradually to Ashur. Why the Semites, in marked contrast with the Indo-Europeans and
the Chinese, have shown a relatively feeble recognition of the physical heaven we are not able
to say; possibly the tribal feeling referred to above may have led to a centering of devotion
on those deities that lay nearer to everyday life, or in the case of Babylonia it may be that
the city with which Anu was particularly connected lost its early importance, and its deity
in consequence yielded to others.[1303] The sun is a more definite and more practically important
object than the expanse of the sky, and the Semitic sun-god, Shamash, plays a great rôle from
the earliest to the latest times. The great king Hammurabi (commonly placed near the year 2000
B.C.), in his noteworthy civil code, takes Shamash as his patron, as the inspirer of wisdom
and the controller of human right; and from this time onward this deity is invoked by the kings
in their inscriptions. The worship of the sun was established in Canaan at an early time (as
the name of the town Bethshemesh, 'house of Shemesh,' shows), and under Assyrian influence
was adopted by a large number of Israelites in the seventh century B.C.; the prophet Ezekiel
represents prominent Israelites as standing in the court of the temple, turning their backs
on the sacred house and worshiping the sun;[1304] but as to the nature of the sun-god and his
worship in these cases we have no information. Other nature deities that rose to eminence are
the moon-god, Sin, and the storm-god, Ramman.

+754+. The other deities of the Babylonian and Assyrian pantheons seem not to be connected
by their names with natural phenomena. They are attached to particular cities or districts,
and each district or city, as it becomes a great religious center, raises its favorite god
to a position of preëminence. Generally the choice of a special deity by a particular city
lies back of historical documents, and the reason for such choice therefore cannot be definitely
fixed. The attributes and functions of the resulting great gods, as has already been remarked,
are substantially everywhere the same, and where one function becomes prominent, it is often
possible to explain its prominence from the political or other conditions.

+755+. Moreover, as in all theological constructions that follow great political unifications,
it was natural to extend the domain of a principal god to whatever department of life or of
nature appealed especially to the theologian. When we find certain gods invested with solar
functions it does not follow that they were originally sun-gods--such functions may be a necessary
result of their preëminence. Out of the great mass of Babylonian and Assyrian deities we may
select a few whose cults illustrate the method of development of the religious conceptions.
As non-Semitic (Sumerian) religious and other ideas and words appear to have been adopted by
the Semitic Babylonians, it is not always easy to distinguish between Semitic and non-Semitic
conceptions in the cults as known to us.

+756+. Babylonia. The god Ea appears to have been originally the local deity of Eridu, a city
which in early times stood on the Persian Gulf. This proximity to the sea may account for the
fact that Ea was generally associated with water (in Babylonia, as elsewhere, there were many
deities of waters). It is not certain that this was his original rôle, but it was, in any case,
assigned him in the course of the theistic construction. It is not improbable that in the original
form of the Babylonian epic it was Ea who sent the flood and saved one man--a natural representation
for the god of Eridu; in later recensions of the poem it is first Bel and then Marduk who assumes
the principal rôle. As Eridu was probably a prominent political center, Ea, as its chief god,
naturally became the creator, the bestower of wisdom, the author of the arts of life, in general
a universal god. As the political center shifted, the popular interest changed and Ea yielded
more or less to other gods, continuing, however, throughout the whole Babylonian and Assyrian
period to receive high consideration.

+757+. Enlil, the god of Nippur, had a similar career; originally local, he became supreme.
A peculiar feature of his history is the fact that the title Bel, 'lord' (which is the Semitic
equivalent of the non-Semitic Enlil), clung to him in a peculiar way and practically ousted
the original name. This title was assigned to various gods (so in Canaan the title Baal), and
its special appropriation by the god of Nippur must be referred to the preponderant importance
of that city in the period before the rise of Babylon. In the Babylonian system he is lord
of the lower world, that is, apparently, the divine king of the earth; his original domain,
the district of Nippur, was extended to embrace the whole world--a sort of extension that was
common in all ancient religions. His importance is evident from the fact that he was a member
of the early triad, Anu, Bel, Ea, names that have been supposed to represent three divisions
of the world into heaven, earth, and ocean. It seems probable, however, that this triadic grouping
was the work of relatively late constructionists; it is more likely that the original prominence
of these three deities was due to the fact that they represented the more important political
communities.[1305]

+758+. A particularly good illustration of the dependence of a god's position on the political
position of his region is furnished by the god Marduk, a name the meaning of which is uncertain.
He is first clearly mentioned in the inscriptions of Hammurabi (ca. 2000 B.C.), but mentioned
in such a way that his cult must go back to a much earlier time. From the devotion paid him
by Hammurabi, and much later by Nebuchadrezzar II (sixth century B.C.), it is generally assumed
that he was the local god of Babylon. He rose with the fortunes of this city, finally becoming
supreme: he was regarded as creator, and invested with all the highest functions; in the later
astronomical constructions he is represented as the arranger of the zodiacal system and all
that was connected with it, but, as is pointed out above, this is no ground for regarding him
as having been originally a sun-god. A glimpse into the method of theological reconstruction
is afforded by the representation in the cosmogonic epic where he is invested with supreme
power by the older gods--this investiture is with probability regarded by Assyriologists as
representing the leadership attained by the city of Babylon (ca. 2000 B.C.), whose religious
hegemony lasted throughout the existence of the Babylonian state.

+759+. Assyria. The Assyrian pantheon is in general identical with that of Babylon, but has
certain features which are due to the peculiar character of the Assyrian civilization. The
god Ashur, originally the local god of the city or district of Ashur, and then the chief god
of Assyria, was naturally a war-god--Assyria was essentially a military nation, differing in
this regard from Babylonia. He is, however, more than a mere god of war--he has all high attributes,
and came to represent in Assyria that approach to monotheism which in Babylon was embodied
in the later cult of Marduk.

+760+. Babylonian and Assyrian female deities are of two classes: those who are merely consorts
of the male deities, and those who represent fertility. The first class we may pass over--the
goddesses of this class are vague in character and functions and play no important part in
the religious system; they appear to be artificial creations of the systematizers. The deities
of the second class, however, are important. From a very early time the fertility of nature
has been referred appropriately to female Powers, and in the Semitic pantheon a large number
of such divinities occur. A deity of this sort naturally becomes a mother-goddess, with all
the attributes that pertain to this character; in some cases a mother-goddess becomes supreme.

+761+. A very early female divinity is Bau, worshiped particularly at the city Lagash and by
King Gudea. Her function as patron of productiveness is probably indicated in the spring festival
held in her honor on New Year's Day, in which she is worshiped as the giver of the fruits of
the earth. There are several local female deities that seem to be substantially identical in
character with Bau. Innanna (or Ninni) in Uruk (Erech) was the mistress of the world and of
war, and Nana is hardly to be distinguished from her.[1306] In Agade Anunit has a similar rôle;
in Lagash Nina was the determiner of fate, and the mother of the goddesses.

+762+. These names appear to be titles signifying 'mistress,' 'lady,' and this is probably
the meaning of the name of the great goddess who finally ousted or absorbed her sisters, Ishtar.[1307]
In the earliest form in which Ishtar appears, in the old poetry, she is the deity of fertility;
when she goes down to the Underworld all productiveness of plants and men ceases; and her primitive
character at this time appears in the account of her marriages with animals, in which there
is to be recognized the trace of the old zoölatrous period; but as patron of fertility she
becomes in time a great goddess and takes on universal attributes--she is the mother of gods
and men, universal protector and guide. Where war was the chief pursuit she became a goddess
of war; in this character she appears in Babylonia as early as the time of Hammurabi, and later
in Assyria. In the genealogical constructions she was brought into connection, as daughter,
wife, or other relation, with any god that the particular conditions suggested. As the Assyrians
grew morally she was endowed with all the highest virtues (so in the Penitential Psalms), and
occupied so preëminent a position that under favorable circumstances she might perhaps have
become the only god of the land.

+763+. If her name signified originally 'lord' or 'lady,' the occurrence of several Ishtars
in Assyria (particularly Ishtar of Nineveh and Ishtar of Arbela) is easily understood; so in
Canaan, as we learn from the Old Testament, there was a great number of local Ashtarts.[1308]
We can thus also explain the male deities Ashtar in Moab and Athtar in South Arabia.[1309]
None of these, however, attained the eminence of the Babylonian and Assyrian Ishtar; her supremacy
in Mesopotamia was due doubtless in part to the political importance of the cities that adopted
her. She had her rivals, as we have seen, in Marduk and Ashur and others; and that she was
able to maintain herself is to be ascribed in some measure to the importance attached by her
worshipers to the fertilizing power of nature.

+764+. The other Semitic peoples, with the exception of the Hebrews, offer little material
for tracing the development of the great gods. For the Aramean region the records are sparse;
Aramean deities appear to be of the same character as the Canaanite.[1310] In Canaan (including
Phoenicia) out of the vast number of local divinities, the Baals and Ashtarts, few attained
to eminence, and it is doubtful whether any one of them deserves the title "great."[1311] The
divine patrons of cities were locally powerful; such were the Baal of Tyre, called Melkart
('the king of the city'), the Ashtart of Sidon, and Tanit of Carthage;[1311] these owed their
reputation to their official positions, and there is no other record of their development.
The same thing is true of the Moabite Kemosh, the Ammonite Malkom (Milkom), and the Philistine
Dagan (Dagon) and Baalzebub. None of these became ethically great or approached universality.
The Phoenician Eshmun was known to the Greeks, and was identified by them with their Asklepios
(Æsculapius), probably because among the various functions attaching to him as local deity
healing was prominent; but of his theologic history little is known.[1312] Several North Arabian
deities, especially Dusares (Dhu ash-Shara) and the goddesses Al-Lât and Al-Uzza, were widely
worshiped, their cults extending over the whole Nabatean region; but the communities to which
they belonged never produced a great civilization or attained great political significance,
and these deities always retained traces of their local nature.[1313] The same remark is to
be made of the South Arabian gods known to us; they were locally important, but we have little
information concerning their characters.[1314]

+765+. The clearest example of the orderly advance of a deity to preëminence is afforded by
the Hebrew Yahweh (Jehovah). Originally, it would seem, a local deity, the god of certain tribes
on the northern boundary of Arabia,[1315] he was adopted by the Hebrews under conditions which
are not quite clear, and was developed by them in accordance with their peculiar genius. At
first morally and intellectually crude, he became as early as the eighth century B.C. ethically
high and practically omnipotent.[1316] For many centuries he was regarded merely as the most
powerful of the gods, superior to the deities of other nations, and it was only after the beginning
of our era that the Hebrew thought discarded all other gods and made "Yahweh" synonymous with
"God." In each period of their history the conception that the Hebrews had of him was in accord
with the economic and intellectual features of the time.[1317]

+766+. A word may be added respecting the Semitic titles Ilu, or El, and Elohim, which have
been supposed by some recent writers to prove the existence of an early monotheism, particularly
in Southern Arabia. The terms mean simply 'god,' and were applied by early Semitic communities
to any deity, particularly to the local god. In the Arabia of Mohammed's time a tribe would
call its deity simply "the god," a sufficient designation of him for the place;[1318] this
designation, in Arabic al-ilahu, came to be pronounced "Allah," and this familar term, as is
remarked above, was adopted by Mohammed and expanded (probably under the influence of some
advanced Arabian circle of thinkers of his time) into the conception of the one only god, which
he and others had derived from Christians and Jews. In certain parts of the Old Testament also
"Elohim" stands for the national god, conceived of as all-sufficient. But these are late conceptions.
There is no proof that in South Arabia or in Babylonia the term Ilu meant anything else than
the local deity, though such a deity would naturally receive all the attributes that his worshipers
demanded in their religious constructions. Most of the appellations of Semitic deities are
epithets, and while this mode of conceiving of the gods militated against the development of
them into distinct personalities and the construction of a pantheon, it was favorable, on the
other hand, to isolation and to the tendency to elevate any favorite deity to a position of
preëminence.

+767+. Greece. The Greeks, with their rich imagination and artistic feeling, filled the world
with divine figures, well-defined types of Greek character, ideals of Greek thought. Greece
alone has constructed a true pantheon, a community of gods all individualized, but all compacted
into a family or a body of government. The question of their historical development involves
great difficulties, partly because the wide diffusion of their cults in Hellas occasioned many
local expansions of the original conceptions in the various regions, partly because most of
the deities appear fully or almost fully formed in the earliest literary monuments, so that
we are dependent on cultic procedures and passing allusions for a knowledge of their preliterary
character. Without, then, attempting an investigation of the obscure prehistoric theogonic
period, the general lines of growth of some of the principal divine personages may be followed
(as far as the data permit) as examples of the way in which the great gods were gradually created.[1319]

+768+. Zeus, originally doubtless a sky-god (not the sun), represents an old Indo-European
divine conception, found substantially also among all the great peoples of antiquity, as well
as in many half-civilized tribes. But nowhere has he attained so eminent a position as in Greece.
The Hindu Dyaus (the 'shining one')[1320] is not prominent in the Vedic mythology or in later
times, and the Mazdean Ahura Mazda, if he was originally the sky, had dropped his physical
characteristics and become only a spirit; the Latin Jupiter approaches Zeus most nearly in
name and character. A sky-god is naturally conceived of as universal ruler,[1321] but in any
particular region he assumes the characteristics of the ruling human personages of the place
and time. Zeus appears first as a barbarian chieftain with the ordinary qualities of such persons.
Stories that have come down about him reflect a period of what now seems immorality, though
it was the recognized morality of the time; he is deceitful and changeable and completely unregardful
of any definite marriage laws. His cult in some places (for example, in Arcadia) had savage
features. Whether he had originally in the Hellenic world a special home, and if so what it
was, cannot now be determined.[1322]

+769+. In the historical period he appears as a chief god in many places in Greece, gradually
absorbs the functions of other gods, and receives numerous titles derived from places and functions.
He is the father of gods and men, but not the sole creator of the world. His gradual rise in
moral character may be traced in the literature. In Homer he is a universalized Agamemnon,
with very much the intellectual and moral qualities of Agamemnon; a process of growth in the
conception of him in the Homeric poems is indicated by the incongruities in his portraiture--at
one time he is a creature of impulse and passion, at another time a dignified and thoughtful
ruler. In Pindar and the tragedians of the fifth century he has become the representative of
justice and order in the world, and in later writers he comes to be more specifically the embodiment
of everything that is good in the universe. He represents the Greek conception of civic authority,
and thus the nearest approach to monotheism discoverable in the Greek mythological system;
and as embodying the finer side of religious feeling he both punishes and forgives sin.

+770+. Next in importance to Zeus as representative of Greek religious thought stands Apollo.
The meaning of the name and the original seat of the god are obscure; he appears to have been
a Pan-Hellenic deity; he was definitely shaped by the whole mass of Hellenic thought. Originally,
perhaps, the local deity of some hunting and pastoral region, and possessing the quasi-universal
attributes of such deities, the wide diffusion of his cult (through conditions not known to
us) brought him into relation with many sides of life. While he shares this many-sidedness
with several other gods, the Greek genius of theographic organization assigned him special
headship in certain distinctively Hellenic conceptions. Zeus embodied the theocratic idea,
and Apollo the ideas of Pan-Hellenic civic unity, artistic feeling, and the more intimate ethical
and religious experience. He became the patron of the Amphictyonic assembly and of literature
and art, and, especially in connection with the Delphic oracle, the fosterer of ethical conceptions
of ritual and of sin. How it came to pass that these particular departments were assigned him
it is not possible to say. Such specialization was natural to the Greeks, but the determining
conditions in particular cases have not been recorded, and can only be surmised. His growth
kept pace with that of the Hellenic people--in the Iliad he is a partisan, and his words and
deeds do not always command our respect, but in the later theological constructions he throws
off his crudeness. His connection with the sun was a natural consequence of his rise to eminence;
he is not a sun-god in the earliest literary remains.

+771+. Poseidon, second only to Zeus in power, is also of obscure origin.[1323] His specific
marine character is certain, though as a great god he had many relations and functions.[1324]
Possibly he was originally the local deity of some marine region, and by reason of the importance
of his native place, or simply through the intimate relationship between the Greek communities,
and in accordance with the Greek spirit of organization, came to be generally recognized as
the god of the ocean.[1325] Though he was widely revered he remained largely a nature god--he
never attained the majesty and moral supremacy of Zeus, never, indeed, represented specifically
any refined moral or religious conception. Whether this ethical and religious meagerness was
a consequence of the vagueness of the relation between the sea and human life, or of some other
fact, is a point that can hardly be determined.

+772+. Hermes, to judge from his history, was the creation of some pastoral community, an ideal
of rustic excellence: fleet of foot, a leader in popular amusements, skilled in simple music,
eminent in an art much valued in early times--the art of stealing cattle. When he was taken
into the circle of Greek theological thought his swiftness recommended him to the position
of messenger of the gods,[1326] and his function as psychopompos, the guide of souls to the
other world, would then follow naturally; from this function it cannot, however, be inferred
that he was originally a chthonic deity--a character that does not accord with the early portraitures
of him. Like other gods he grew morally, but he never reached ethical distinction. Skill in
theft was in early times often regarded as a virtue,[1327] and in general he who got the better
of his fellows was esteemed a master of good luck and prosperity; and a bestower of outward
prosperity Hermes came to be.[1328] His main quality was cleverness, in contrast with the intellectual
power of Apollo.

+773+. On the other hand, another rustic figure, the Arcadian herd-god Pan,[1329] never developed
into a great Hellenic god. His worship was widely diffused; he appears often in artistic representations,
and Pindar thought him worthy of a hymn (of which, unfortunately, only fragments survive),
but in general he remained uncouth and half savage, a goatlike figure, the companion of satyrs,
or (as the Homeric hymn depicts him) a merrymaker. He seems to have been an embodiment of the
lower rustic pleasures, a local god, probably not a divinized goat.[1330]

