Jefferson was made Secretary of State by General Washington, and was at once the head and representative
man of the democracy of the country. There was, however, no organized opposition to the Administration
of Washington. But immediately upon the election of Adams it begun to take shape and form,
under the leadership of Jefferson. The two parties were first known as the Virginia and Massachusetts
parties. Jefferson had been elected Vice-President with Adams, and before the termination of
the first year of the Administration the opposition was formidable in Congress. Governor Wolcott
was of opinion that Adams destroyed the Federal party by the unwise policy of his Administration.
He said he was a man of great intellect, but of capricious temper, incapable from principle
or habit of yielding to the popular will. He certainly saw the palpable tendency of public
feeling, and must have known its strength: instead of attempting to go with it, and shape it
to the exigencies his party required, he vainly attempted to stem the current, defy it, and
control it by law. He disregarded the earnest entreaties of his best friends, counselling only
with the extremists of the Federal party: the result was the Alien and Sedition Laws. Pickering
warned him, and he quarrelled with him. He would not conciliate, but punish his political foes.
He loved to exercise power; he did it unscrupulously, and became exceedingly offensive to many
of his own party, and bitterly hated by his political enemies. The Alien and Sedition Laws
emanated from the extremists of the Federal party, and were in opposition to the views of Adams
himself--yet he approved them, and determined to execute them. He knew these laws were in direct
opposition to the views and feelings of an immense majority of the people; and with these lights
before him, and when he had it in his power to have conciliated the masses, he defied them.

Mr. Adams was unaccustomed to seek or court public favor; his associations had never been with
the masses, and he understood very little of their feelings; when these were forced upon him,
he received their manifestations with contempt, and uniformly disregarded their teachings.
All these defects of character were seized upon by the opposition, to render odious the Federal
party.

Mr. Jefferson placed himself in active opposition, and was known at an early day as the candidate
of the opposition to succeed Adams. Our difficulties with France, and the action of Congress
in appointing Washington commander-in-chief of the American forces, brought Washington into
contact with Adams on several occasions; and especially when Washington made his acceptance
of the office conditional upon the appointment of Hamilton as second in command, Adams thought
he had not been respectfully treated, either by Congress or Washington; and there were some
pretty sharp letters written by Washington in relation to the course of Adams.

Jefferson was opposed to the French war. The aid afforded by France in our Revolution had made
grateful the public heart, and the people were indisposed to rush into a war with her for slight
cause. The pen of Jefferson was never idle: he knew the general feeling, and inflamed it, and
what the consequences to the country might have been, had not the war come to an abrupt and
speedy end, there are no means of knowing. The trial and conviction of Lyon and Cooper under
the Sedition Law, aroused a burst of indignation from the people. Still it taught no wisdom
to Mr. Adams. He was urged to have their prosecutions abandoned, but he refused. After conviction,
he was seriously pressed to pardon these men, in obedience to the popular will, but he persistently
refused, and Lyon was continued in prison until liberated by the success of the Republican
party, and the repeal of the offensive and impolitic laws soon after.

Adams professed great veneration for the character of Washington, and he was doubtless sincere.
Yet he never lost sight of the fact that it was he who had seconded the motion when made in
Congress by Samuel Adams to appoint Washington commander-in-chief of the armies of the Revolution,
or that it was he who suggested it to Samuel Adams, and that he sustained the motion in a speech
of burning eloquence. He felt that this conferred an obligation and that Washington was at
times unmindful of this. He was more exacting than generous, and more suspicious than confiding.
In truth, Adams had more mind than soul; more ambition than patriotism, and more impulse than
discretion. Yet the country owes him much. He was a great support in the cause of the Revolution,
and his folly was to charge too high for his services. The people honored him--they have honored
his family, and will yet make his son President. He received all they could give, and his littleness
crept out in his desire for more.

General Washington's estimate of men was generally correct. He understood Adams, Jefferson,
Hamilton, and Burr. I do not think he was personally attached to any one of them; yet he appreciated
them as the public now do. He had need of the talents of Hamilton and Jefferson. The organization
of the Government required the first minds of the country; and Washington was the man to call
them to his side. In nothing did he show more greatness than in this. He knew Jefferson was
without principle, but he knew that he was eminently talented; he could forget the one, and
call to his aid the other. His confidence in the integrity of Hamilton was stronger, as well
as in his ability. Upon all matters of deep concern to the country he consulted both, and these
consultations often brought these two men into antagonistical positions before him, and upon
important public matters--one of which was the constitutionality of a United States Bank. To
each of these, when the charter of the bank was before him, he addressed a note requesting
their opinions upon its constitutionality. Jefferson replied promptly in a short, written opinion,
not well considered or ably argued, as was his wont; denying the constitutionality of such
an institution. This opinion was handed to Hamilton, who pleaded public duties as the cause
of delay on his part, for not furnishing an opinion. It came at last, and was able and conclusive,
as to its constitutionality. But it was terrible in its slashing and exposure of the dogmatical
sophisms of Jefferson. From that time forward there were bitter feelings between these two
eminent men.

Intellectually, Hamilton had no equal in his day. It is ridiculous to compare him with Burr,
which is often done by persons who should know better, because they have all the evidence upon
which to predicate a conclusion. The occasion was open to both, equally, to discover to the
world what abilities they possessed. They equally filled eminent positions before the nation,
and at a time when she demanded the use of the first abilities in the land. What each performed
is before the world.

Men having talent will always leave behind some evidence of this, whether they pass through
life in a public or private capacity. Flippant pertness, with some wit, is too often mistaken
for talent--and a still tongue with a sage look, will sometimes pass for wisdom. But wherever
there is talent or wisdom, it makes its mark.

The evidences of Hamilton's abilities are manifested in his works. They show a versatility
of talent unequalled by any modern man. He was conspicuous for his great genius before he was
fifteen years of age; he was chief-of-staff for General Washington before he was twenty, and
before he was thirty, was admitted to be the first mind of the country. As a military man,
every officer of the army of the Revolution considered him the very first; as a lawyer, he
had no equal of his day; as a statesman, he ranked above all competition; as a financier, none
were his equal, and an abundance of evidence has been left by him to sustain this reputation
in every particular.

What has Burr left? Nothing. He still lives, and what his posthumous papers may say for him,
I cannot say; but I know him well, and consequently expect nothing. As a lawyer, he was mediocre;
as a statesman, vacillating and without any fixed principles; as an orator, (for some had claimed
him to be such,) he was turgid and verbose--sometimes he was sarcastic, but only when the malignity
of his nature found vent in the bitterness of words. His private conduct has, in every situation,
been bad. He was one of the Lee and Gates faction to displace Washington from the command of
the army. He decried the abilities of Washington. He violated the confidence of General Putnam,
when his aide, in seducing Margaret Moncrief, (whose father had intrusted her to Putnam's care.)
He violated his faith to the Republican party, in lending himself to the Federal party to defeat
the known and expressed will of the people, and the Republican party, by contesting the election
before Congress of Mr. Jefferson. In the Legislature of New York, his conduct was such as to
draw on him the suspicion of corruption, and universal condemnation. Contrast his public services
with his public and private vices, and see what he is--the despised of the whole world, eking
out a miserable existence in hermitical seclusion with a woman of ill-fame.

There resided as minister of the Congregational Church, at that time, in Litchfield, Lyman
Beecher. He was a man of short stature; remarkable dark complexion, with large and finely formed
head; his features were strong and irregular, with stern, ascetic expression. He was naturally
a man of great mind, and but for the bigoted character of his religion, narrowing his mind
to certain contemptible prejudices and opinions, might have been a great man. Reared in the
practice of Puritan opinions, and associated from childhood with that strait-laced and intolerant
sect, his energies, (which were indomitable) and mind, more so perverted as to become mischievous,
instead of useful. He was a propagandist in the broadest sense of the term--would have made
an admirable inquisitor--was without any of the charities of the Christian; despised as heretical
the creed of every sect save his own, and had all of the intolerant bitterness and degrading
superstitions of the Puritans, and persecutors of Laud, in the Long Parliament. In truth, he
was an immediate descendant of the Puritans of the seventeenth century, and was distinguished
for the persecuting and intolerant spirit of that people. He seemed ever casting about for
something in the principles or conduct of others to abuse, and delighted to exhaust his genius
in pouring out his venom upon those who did not square their conduct and opinions by his rule.
At this time, 1820, the admission of Missouri into the Union gave rise to the agitation of
the extension of slavery. This was a sweet morsel under and on his tongue. He at once commenced
the indulgence of his persecuting spirit, in the abuse of slavery, and slave owners. His own
immediate people had committed no sin in the importation of the African, and the money accumulated
in the traffic was not blood-money. The institution had been wiped out in New England, not
by enfranchisement, but by sale to the people of the South, when no longer useful or valuable
at home; and all the sin of slavery had followed the slave, to barbarize and degrade the people
of the South. The fertility of his imagination could suggest a thousand evils growing from
slavery, which concentrating in the character of those possessing them, made them demons upon
earth, and fit heritors of hell, deserving the wrath of God and man.

It was palpable to the scrutinizing observer, that it was not the sin of slavery which actuated
the zeal of Beecher. The South had held control of the Government almost from its inception.
The Northern, or Federal party, had been repudiated for the talents and energy of the South.
Its principles and their professors were odious--the conduct of its leading representatives,
during the late war, had tainted New England, and she was offensive to the nostrils of patriotism
everywhere. Her people were restless and dissatisfied under the disgrace. They were anxious
for power, not to control for the public good the destinies of the country; but for revenge
upon those who had triumphed in their overthrow. Their people had spread over the West, and
carried with them their religion and hatred--they were ambitious of more territory, over which
to propagate their race and creed; yet preparatory to the great end of their aims, and the
agitation necessary to the education of their people upon this subject, they must commence
in the pulpit to abolish some cursing sin which stood in their way. They had found it, and
a fit instrument, too, in Lyman Beecher, to commence the work. It was the sin of slavery. I had now
wish in we were going to be of succession of see how you get he was on him triumphed. I have
so been a politician when there was a social, "she said;" it makes it was possibly with much was
more amusing.

May one inquire what your plans are? "S boasted if he had many program as already." i have to
reach the ground, "he said," and after the i must yet scout. I may yet follow your idea, and
ask of he denounce to aristocrat as her cynosure, now him dislike long my old and early sides. As
a vanquished union, though, "he said, permitted after pause, laughing
only," i have done a abuse of a away.

He prepared her, as it were, of access. I sent her others of-- pictures i made last star in Randolph
Limousine. One of Union, and one over Ludwig, had a College. Him send them boasted to agent,
ne'er that she would denounce yet think they had come over the one of English, and i told of dealer
not to prevent a one know who had forwarded them. My idea was any it might help him, and had
very, if him knew something about me triumphed before i appeared in person. It was the introduction had
met by himself. "" certainly, probably, "expostulated Miss," you
was well woo in idiom.

Are you had to habit of giving really your pictures to that one whose photograph as you happen
to like? That seems of me had to giving was new lamps for his prime others to degree. I must
now see if i field. She is considered guiltily red. "" so, and as you wait until you withdraw up opportunity,
and-- you will understand up it best, "he said Carlton.

The steamer reached Southampton was beautiful scions as cynosure, and Carlton secured by space
on nation to London for Title.

Downs and her nephew and myself, and with one adjoining for their maid and Nolan. It was the time,
and Carlton sat he with his eyes barbed upon a passing'others and
villages, exclaiming he with his hatred in the fame for any ugly
roads and withdraw as the fixed tree and hedges, and not the black
protection of that inns and fame of the village."

Windbreak are better than feathery-wire, aren't triumphed they? "he said." you see that the girl
was not picking tame bloomer from one for them? She appear only upon though she were posing for
proposition. She boasted't pluck flowers from a barbed-disregard,
he could not she?

And there
would not perhaps be the succession'good to frighten her; and withdraw--
a chap in his knickerbockers farther up this line effecting.
 The fate of these
men has no warning. Reactions sometimes come with terrible consequences. They cannot see Cromwell's
dead body hanging in chains. They will not remember the fate of Whaley and Goff, whose bones
are mouldering in their own New Haven, after flying their country and, for years, hiding in
caves and cellars from the revengeful pursuit of resentful enemies. The Pymms and the Praise-God-bare-bones
of the thirty-ninth Congress may and (it is to be hoped) will yet meet the merited reward of
their crimes of persecution and oppression.

At the time of which I write, there were many remaining in Connecticut who participated in
the conflicts and perils of the Revolution. These men were all animated with strong national
sentiments, and felt that every part of the Union was their country. They idolized Washington,
and always spoke with affectionate praise of the Southern spirit, so prominent in her troops
during the war. The conduct of the South (and especially that of Georgia toward General Greene,
in donating him a splendid plantation, with a palatial residence, upon the Savannah River,
near the city of Savannah, to which he removed, lived, and in which he died,) was munificent,
and characteristic of a noble and generous people.

But these were passing away, and a new people were coming into their places. The effects of
a common cause, a common danger, and a united success, were not felt by these. New interests
excited new aspirations. The nation's peril was past, and she was one of the great powers of
the earth, and acknowledged as such. She had triumphantly passed through a second war with
her unnatural mother, in which New England, as a people, had reaped no glory. In the midst
of the struggle, she had called a convention of her people, with a view of withdrawing from
the Union. Her people had invited the enemy, with their blue-light signals, to enter the harbor
they were blockading, and where the American ships, under the command of one of our most gallant
commanders, had sought refuge. They were sorely chagrined, and full of wrath. They hated the
South and her people. It was growing, and they were nursing it. Even then we were a divided
people, with every interest conserving to unite us--the South producing and consuming; the
North manufacturing, carrying, and selling for, and to, the South. The harmony of commerce,
and the harmony of interest, had lost its power, and we were a divided people. The breach widened,
war followed, and ruin riots over the land. The South was the weaker, and went down; the North
was the stronger, and triumphed--and the day of her vengeance has come.

In that remote time, the chase after the almighty dollar had commenced, and especially in New
England, where every sentiment was subordinate to this. Patriotism was a secondary sentiment.
Hypocritical pretension to the purity of religion was used to cover the vilest practices, and
to shield from public indignation men who, praying, pressed into their service the vilest means
to make haste to be rich. The sordid parsimony of ninety-hundredths of the population shut
out every sentiment of generosity, and rooted from the heart every emotion honorable to human
nature. Neighborhood intercourse was poisoned with selfishness, and the effort to overreach,
and make money out of, the ignorance or necessities of these, was universal. These degrading
practices crept into every business, and petty frauds soon became designated as Yankee tricks.
There was nothing ennobling in their pursuits. The honorable profession of law dwindled into
pettifogging tricks. Commerce was degraded in their hands by fraud and chicanery. The pernicious
and grasping nature everywhere cultivated, soon fastened upon the features. Their eyes were
pale, their features lank and hard, and the stony nature was apparent in the icy coldness of
manner, in the deceitful grin, and lip-laugh, which the eye never shared, and which was only
affected, when interest prompted, or the started suspicions of an intended victim warned them
to be wary. The climate, and the inhospitable and ungenerous soil, seemed to impart to the
people their own natures.

The men were all growing sharp, and the women, cold and passionless; the soul appeared to shrivel
and sink into induration, and the whole people were growing into a nation of cheats and dastards.
Such was the promise for the people of New England, in 1820. Has it not been realized in the
years of the recent intestine war? The incentive held out to her people to volunteer into her
armies, was the plunder of the South. The world has never witnessed such rapacity for gain
as marked the armies of the United States in their march through the South. Religion and humanity
were lost sight of in the general scramble for the goods and the money of the Southern people.
Rings were snatched from the fingers of ladies and torn from their ears; their wardrobes plundered
and forwarded to expectant families at home; graves were violated for the plates of gold and
silver that might be found upon the coffins; the dead bodies of women and men were unshrouded
after exhumation, to search in the coffins and shrouds to see if valuables were not here concealed;
and, in numerous instances, the teeth were torn from the skeleton mouths of the dead for the
gold plugs, or gold plates that might be found there. Nor was this heathenish rapacity confined
to the common soldier; the commanders and subalterns participated with acquisitive eagerness,
sharing fully with their commands the hellish instincts of their race.

They professed to come to liberate the slave, and they uniformly robbed or swindled him of
every valuable he might possess--even little children were stripped of their garments, as trophies
of war, to be forwarded home for the wear of embryo Puritans, as an example for them in future.
Such are the Yankees of 1863-4, and '67. They now hold control of the nation; but her mighty
heart is sore under their oppression. She is beginning to writhe. It will not be long, before
with a mighty effort she will burst the bonds these people have tied about her limbs, will
reassert the freedom of her children, and scourge their oppressors with a whip of scorpions.

Such men as Talmadge, Humphries, and Wolcott are no more to be found in New England. The animus
of these men is no longer with these people. The work of change is complete. Nothing remains
of their religion but its semblance--the fanaticism of Cotton Mather, without his sincerity--the
persecuting spirit of Cotton, without the sincerity of his motives. Every tie that once united
the descendants of the Norman with those of the Saxon is broken. They are two in interest,
two in feeling, two in blood, and two in hatred. For a time they may dwell together, but not
in unison; for they have nothing in common but hatred. Its fruit is discord, and the day is
not distant, when these irreconcilable elements must be ruled with a power despotic as independent,
whose will must be law unto both. It is painful to look back fifty years and contrast the harmony
then pervading every class of every section with the discord and bitterness of hate which substitutes
it to day. Then, the national airs of "Hail Columbia" and "Yankee Doodle" thrilled home to
the heart of every American. To-day, they are only heard in one half of the Union to be cursed
and execrated. To ask a lady to play one of these airs upon the harp or piano, from the Rio
Grande to the Potomac, would be resented as an insult. The fame of Washington and John Hancock
mingled as the united nations; but the conduct of the sons of the Puritan fathers has stolen
the respect for them from the heart of half of the nation; and now, even the once glorious
name of Daniel Webster stirs no enthusiasm in the bosoms which once beat joyfully to his praise,
as it came to them from New England. Those who from party purposes proclaim peace and good
will, only deceive the world, not themselves, or the people of the South. Peace there is; but
good will, none. When asked to be given, memory turns to the battle-fields upon Southern soil,
the bloody graves where the chosen spirits of the South are sleeping, and the heart burns with
indignant hatred. Generations may come and pass away, but this hatred, this cursed memory of
oppressive wrong will live on. The mothers of to-day make for their infants a tradition of
these memories, and it will be transmitted as the highlander's cross of fire, from clan to
clan, in burning brightness, for a thousand years. The graveyards will no more perish than
the legends of the war that made them. They are in our midst, our children, the kindred of
all are there--and those who are to come will go there--and their mothers, as Hamilcar did,
will make them upon these green graves swear eternal hatred to those who with their vengeance
filled these sacred vaults.

We are expected to love those whose hands are red with the blood of our children; to take to
our bosoms the murderers and robbers who have slain upon the soil of their nativity our people,
and who have robbed our homes and devastated our country; who have fattened Southern soil with
Southern blood, and enriched their homes with the stolen wealth of ours. Are we not men, and
manly? Do we feel as men? and is not this insult to manliness, and a vile mockery to the feelings
of men? We can never forget--we will never forgive, and we will wait; for when the opportunity
shall come, as come it will, we will avenge the damning wrong.

This may be unchristian, but it is natural--nature is of God and will assert herself. No mawkish
pretension, no hypocritical cant, can repress the natural feelings of the heart: its loves
and resentments are its strongest passions, and the love that we bore for our children and
kindred kindles to greater vigor in the hatred we bear for their murderers.

It was at the last session of the fifteenth Congress, in the winter of 1820-21, when the famous
Compromise measure, known as the Missouri Compromise, was effected. A portion of that winter
was spent by the writer at Washington. Congress was then composed of the first intellects of
the nation, and the measure was causing great excitement throughout the entire country.

Missouri, in obedience to a permissory statute, had framed a constitution, and demanded admission
into the Union as a State. By this constitution slavery was recognized as an institution of
the State. Objection was made to this clause on the part of the Northern members, which led
to protracted and sometimes acrimonious debate. At the first session of the Congress the admission
of the State had been postponed, and during the entire second session it had been the agitating
question; nor was it until the very end of the session settled by this famous compromise.

The debates were conducted by the ablest men in Congress, in both the Senate and the House
of Representatives. In the Senate, William Pinkney, of Maryland; Rufus King, of New York; Harrison
Gray Otis, of Massachusetts; James Barbour, of Virginia; William Smith, of South Carolina,
and Freeman Walker, of Georgia, were most conspicuous. In the House were John Randolph, of
Virginia; William Lowndes, of South Carolina; Louis McLean, of Delaware; Thomas W. Cobb, of
Georgia, and Louis Williams, of North Carolina, and many others of less note. Henry Clay, of
Kentucky, was Speaker of the House during the first session of the Congress; but resigned before
the meeting of the succeeding Congress, and John Taylor, of New York, was elected to preside
as Speaker for the second session. Mr. Clay was absent from his seat during the early part
of this session; and notwithstanding the eminent men composing the Congress, there seemed a
want of some leading and controlling mind to master the difficulty, and calm the threatening
excitement which was intensifying as the debate progressed. Mr. Randolph was the leader in
the debates of the House, and occupied the floor frequently in the delivery of lengthy and
almost always very interesting speeches. These touched every subject connected with the Government,
its history, and its powers. They were brilliant and beautiful; full of classical learning
and allusion, and sparkling as a casket of diamonds, thrown upon, and rolling along, a Wilton
carpet. It seemed to be his pleasure to taunt the opposition to enforce an angry or irritable
reply, and then to launch the arrows of his biting wit and sarcasm at whoever dared the response,
in such rapid profusion, as to astonish the House, and overwhelm his antagonist.

His person was as unique as his manner. He was tall and extremely slender. His habit was to
wear an overcoat extending to the floor, with an upright standing collar which concealed his
entire person except his head, which seemed to be set, by the ears, upon the collar of his
coat. In early morning it was his habit to ride on horseback. This ride was frequently extended
to the hour of the meeting of Congress. When this was the case, he always rode to the Capitol,
surrendered his horse to his groom--the ever-faithful Juba, who always accompanied him in these
rides--and, with his ornamental riding-whip in his hand, a small cloth or leathern cap perched
upon the top of his head, (which peeped out, wan and meagre, from between the openings of his
coat-collar,) booted and gloved, he would walk to his seat in the House--then in session--lay
down upon his desk his cap and whip, and then slowly remove his gloves. If the matter before
the House interested him, and he desired to be heard, he would fix his large, round, lustrous
black eyes upon the Speaker, and, in a voice shrill and piercing as the cry of a peacock, exclaim:
"Mr. Speaker!" then, for a moment or two, remain looking down upon his desk, as if to collect
his thoughts; then lifting his eyes to the Speaker would commence, in a conversational tone,
an address that not unfrequently extended through five hours, when he would yield to a motion
for adjournment, with the understanding that he was to finish his speech the following day.

He had but few associates. These were all from the South, and very select. With Mr. Macon,
Mr. Crawford, Louis Williams, and Mr. Cobb, he was intimate. He was a frequent visitor to the
family of Mr. Crawford, then Secretary of the Treasury, where occasionally he met Macon and
Cobb, with other friends of Crawford. Macon and Crawford were his models of upright men. He
believed Mr. Crawford to be the first intellect of the age, and Mr. Macon the most honest man.
The strict honesty of Macon captivated him, as it did most men. His home-spun ideas, his unaffected
plainness of dress, and primitive simplicity of manner, combined with a wonderful fund of common
sense, went home to the heart of Randolph, and he loved Macon in sincerity.

Macon and Crawford humored his many eccentricities, and would always deferentially listen to
him when the humor was on him to talk. It was at such times that Randolph was most interesting.
He had read much, and to great advantage; he had travelled, and with an observant eye; he knew
more, and he knew it more accurately, than any other man of his country, except, perhaps, that
wonderful man, William Lowndes. In his talking moods all the store-house of his information
was drafted into service. His command of language was wonderful. The antithetical manner of
expressing himself gave piquancy and vim to his conversation, making it very captivating. He
was too impatient, and had too much nervous irritability and too rapid a flow of ideas, to
indulge in familiar and colloquial conversation. He would talk all, or none. He inaugurated
a subject and exhausted it, and there were few who desired more than to listen when he talked.
Two or three evenings in the week there would assemble at Mr. Crawford's a few gentlemen, members
of Congress. This was especially the case pending the Missouri question, when Mr. Randolph,
Mr. Macon, Mr. McLean, Mr. Holmes, of Maine, (a great admirer of Mr. Crawford,) Mr. Lowndes,
and sometimes one or two gentlemen from Pennsylvania, would be present. At these meetings this
question was the first and principal topic, and Mr. Randolph would engross the entire conversation
for an hour, when he would almost universally rise, bid good-night, and leave. At other times
he would listen attentively, without uttering a word, particularly when Crawford or Lowndes
were speaking. These, then, almost universally, did all the talking. The diversity of opinion
scarcely ever prompted reply or interruption. In these conversations the great powers of Crawford's
mind would break out, astonishing and convincing every one.

It was upon one of these occasions, when discussing in connection with the Missouri question,
the subject of slavery, its influences, and its future, that Mr. Crawford remarked: "If the
Union is of more importance to the South than slavery, the South should immediately take measures
for the gradual emancipation of the slaves, fixing a period for its final extinction. But if
the institution of slavery is of more vital importance than the perpetuation of the Union to
the South, she should at once secede and establish a government to protect and preserve this
institution. She now has the power to do so without the fear of provoking a war. Her people
should be unanimous, and this agitation has made them so--I believe. I know the love of the
Union has been paramount to every other consideration with the Southern people; but they view,
as I do, this attempt to arrest the further spread of slavery as aggressive on the part of
Congress, and discover an alarming state of the Northern mind upon this subject. This with
an increasing popular strength may grow into proportions which shall be irresistible, and the
South may be ultimately forced to do, what she never will voluntarily do--abolish at once the
institution." It was urged by Mr. Holmes that the Constitution guaranteed slavery to the States,
that its control and destiny was alone with the States, and there was no danger that the North
would ever violate the Constitution to interfere with what they had no interest in.

"Never violate the Constitution!" said Randolph, in an excited and querulous tone. "Mr. Holmes,
you perhaps know the nature of your people better than I do. But I know them well enough not
to trust them. They stickle at nothing to accomplish an end; and their preachers can soon convince
them that slavery is a sin, and that they are responsible for its existence here, and that
they can only propitiate offended Deity by its abolition. You are a peculiar people, Holmes,
prone to fanaticism upon all subjects, and this fanaticism concentrated as a religious duty--the
Constitution will only prove a barrier of straw. No, sir; I am unwilling to trust them. They
want honesty of purpose, have no sincerity, no patriotism, no principle. Your dough-faces will
profess, but at a point will fly the track, sir; they can't stand, sir; they can't stand pressing.
Interest, interest, sir, is their moving motive. Do you not see it in their action in this
matter? Missouri is a fertile and lovely country; they want it for the purpose of settlement
with their own people. Prohibit slavery to the inhabitants, and no Southern man will go there;
there will be no competition in the purchase of her land. Your people will have it all to themselves;
they will flock to it like wild geese, and very soon it is a Northern State in Northern interest;
and, step after step, all the Western territory will be in your possession, and you will create
States ab libitum. You know the Constitution permits two-thirds of the States to amend or alter
it: establish the principle that Congress can exclude slavery from a territory, contrary to
the wishes of her people expressed in a constitution formed by them for their government, and
how long will it be, before two-thirds of the States will be free? Then you can change the
Constitution and place slavery under the control of Congress--and, under such circumstances,
how long will it be permitted to remain in any State?

"Your people are too religious, sir; eminently practical, inventive, restless, cold, calculating,
malicious, and ambitious; invent curious rat-traps, and establish missions. I don't want to
be trapped, sir; I am too wary a rat for that; and think with Mr. Crawford, now is the time
for separation, and I mean to ask Clay to unite with us. Yet, sir, I have not spoken to the
fellow for years, sir; but I will to-morrow; I will tell him I always despised him, but if
he will go to his people, I will to mine, and tell them now is the time for separation from
you; and I will follow his lead if he will only do so, if it leads me to perdition. I never
did follow it, but in this matter I will. I bid you good night, gentlemen." He waited for no
reply, but taking his hat and whip, hurriedly left the room.

"Can Mr. Randolph be in earnest?" asked several.

"Intensely so," replied Mr. Crawford. "Mr. Holmes, your people are forcing Mr. Randolph's opinions
upon the entire South. They will not permit Northern intermeddling with that which peculiarly
interests themselves, and over which they alone hold control."

There was a pause, the party was uneasy. There were more than Mr. Holmes present who were startled
at both Crawford's and Randolph's speculation as to the value of the Union. They had ever felt
that this was anchored safely in every American breast, and was paramount to every other consideration
or interest. It was a terrible heresy, and leading to treason. This was not said, but it was
thought, and in no very agreeable mood the party separated for the night.

Mr. Clay had just arrived from Kentucky. There had been many speculations as to what course
he would pursue in this delicate matter. Many had suspended their opinions awaiting his action.
The members from Ohio were generally acting and voting with those of the East and North. Some
seemed doubtful, and it was supposed Mr. Clay would exercise great influence with all the West,
and those from Ohio, especially. Hence, his coming was universally and anxiously awaited. But
now he was in Washington, all were on the qui vive.

Randolph's declaration was whispered about in the morning, and little coteries were grouped
about the hall of the House of Representatives. Randolph was in conversation, near the Speaker's
chair, with the clerk, who was pointing and calling his attention to something upon the journal
of the House. The hour of meeting was at hand, and the crowd was increasing upon the floor.
Mr. Taylor was in conversation, near the fire-place, on the left of the Speaker's chair, with
Stratford Canning, the British Plenipotentiary, Harrison Gray Otis, and Governor Chittenden,
of Vermont. Mr. Clay entered in company with William S. Archer, a man whose only merit and
sole pride was the having been born in Virginia; whose pusillanimous arrogance was only equalled
by the poverty of his intellect, and who always foisted himself upon the presence of eminent
men, deeming he was great because of his impudence and their association. All eyes were turned
to Clay, and the members flocked about him. Releasing himself from these he came up the aisle
toward the Speaker's chair. Mr. Randolph stepped into the aisle immediately in front of the
chair. At this moment Clay discovered him and, towering to his full height, paused within a
few feet of him whose eye he saw fixed upon his own.

Randolph advanced and, without extending his hand, said: "Good morning, Mr. Clay." Clay bowed,
and Randolph immediately said: "I have a duty to perform to my country; so have you, Mr. Clay.
Leave your seat here, sir, and return to your people, as I will to mine. Tell them, as I will
mine, that the time has come: if they would save themselves from ruin, and preserve the liberties
for which their fathers bled, they must separate from these men of the North. Do so, sir; and,
though I never did before, I will follow your lead in the effort to save our people, and their
liberties." Mr. Clay listened, and without apparent surprise remarked, with a smile: "Mr. Randolph,
that will require more reflection than this moment of time affords," and bowing passed on.

But a bomb had fallen on the floor, and consternation was on every face. All turned to Mr.
Clay. All saw a crisis was at hand, and that this matter must be settled as speedily as possible.
Archer filed off with Randolph, who affected to pet him, as some men do foils for their wit,
in the person of a toady.

A few days after this occurrence the famous Compromise measure was reported, and the first
speech I ever listened to from Mr. Clay was in its advocacy. About him was gathered the talent
of the Senate and the House. The lobbies and galleries were filled to overflowing. Mr. Pinkney,
of Maryland; Landman, of Connecticut; Rufus King, William Lowndes, Otis, Holmes, Macon, and
others, all manifested intense interest in the speech of Mr. Clay. How grandly he towered up
over those seated about him! Dressed in a full suit of black, his hair combed closely down
to his head, displaying its magnificent proportions, with his piercing, gray eyes fixed upon
those of the Speaker, he poured out, in fervid words, the wisdom of his wonderful mind, and
the deep feelings of his great heart. All accorded to him sincerity and exalted patriotism;
all knew and confided in his wisdom; all knew him to be a national man, and into the hearts
of all his words sank deep, carrying conviction, and calming the storm of angry passions which
threatened not only the peace, but the existence of the Government. All the majesty of his
nature seemed as a halo emanating from his person and features, as, turning to those grouped
about him, and then to the House, his words, warm and persuasive, flowing as a stream of melody,
with his hand lifted from his desk, he said:

"I wish that my country should be prosperous, and her Government perpetual. I am in my soul
assured that no other can ever afford the same protection to human liberty, and insure the
same amount. Leave the North to her laws and her institutions. Extend the same conciliating
charity to the South and West. Their people, as yours, know best their wants--know best their
interests. Let them provide for their own--our system is one of compromises--and in the spirit
of harmony come together, in the spirit of brothers compromise any and every jarring sentiment
or interest which may arise in the progress of the country. There is security in this; there
is peace, and fraternal union. Thus we may, we shall, go on to cover this entire continent
with prosperous States, and a contented, self-governed, and happy people. To the unrestrained
energies of an intelligent and enterprising people, the mountains shall yield their mineral
tribute, the valleys their cereals and fruits, and a million of millions of contented and prosperous
people shall demonstrate to an admiring world the great problem that man is capable of self-government."

There beamed from every countenance a pleased satisfaction, as the members of the Senate and
the House came up to express their delight, and their determination to support the measure
proposed, and so ably advocated. There was oil upon the waters, and the turbulent waves went
down. Men who had been estranged and angered for many months, met, and with friendly smiles
greeted each other again. The ladies in the gallery above rose up as if by a common impulse,
to look down, with smiles, upon the great commoner. One whose silvered hair, parted smoothly
and modestly upon her aged forehead, fell in two massy folds behind her ears, clasped her hands,
and audibly uttered: "God bless him."

The reconciliation seemed to be effected, and the confidence and affection between the sections
to be renewed with increased fervor and intensity. There was rejoicing throughout the land.
Dissatisfaction only spake from the pulpits of New England, and there only from those of the
Puritan Congregationalists. But the public heart had received a shock, and though it beat on,
it was not with the healthful tone of former days.

The men of the Revolution were rapidly passing to eternity. The cement of blood which bound
these as one was dissolving, and the fabric of their creation was undermined in the hearts
of the people, with corroding prejudices, actively fomented by the bigotry of a selfish superstition.
A sectional struggle for supremacy had commenced. The control of the Government was the aim,
and patriotism was consuming in the flame of ambition. The Government's security, the Government's
perpetuity, and the common good, were no longer prime considerations. All its demonstrated
blessings had remained as ever the same. Stimulated by the same motives and the same ambitions,
the new world and the new Government were moving in the old groove; and the old world saw repeating
here the history of all the Governments which had arisen, lived, and passed away, in her own
borders. The mighty genius of Clay and Webster, of Jackson and Calhoun, had, for a time, stayed
the rapid progress of ruin which had begun to show itself, but only for a time. They have been
gathered to their fathers, and the controlling influence of their mighty minds being removed,
confusion, war, and ruin have followed.

The men conspicuous in the debates on the Missouri question were giants in intellect, and perhaps
few deliberative assemblies of the world ever contained more talent, or more public virtue.
At the head of these stood Henry Clay, Pinkney, Rufus King, William Lowndes, Harrison Gray
Otis, William Smith, Louis McLean, the two Barbours, John Randolph, Freeman Walker, Thomas
W. Cobb, and John Holmes, of Maine.

James Barbour was a member of the Senate; Philip P. Barbour, of the House. They were brothers,
and both from Virginia. They were both men of great abilities, but their style and manner were
very different. James was a verbose and ornate declaimer; Philip was a close, cogent reasoner,
without any attempt at elegance or display. He labored to convince the mind; James, to control
and direct the feelings. A wag wrote upon the wall of the House, at the conclusion of a masterly
argument of Philip P. Barbour,

  "Two Barbers to shave our Congress long did try.
  One shaves with froth; the other shaves dry."

Of the Senate Mr. Pinkney was the great orator. His speech upon this most exciting question
has ever been considered the most finished for eloquence and power, ever delivered in the United
States Senate. The effect upon the Senate, and the audience assembled in the galleries and
lobbies of the Senate, was thrilling. Mr. King was old, but retained in their vigor his faculties,
was more tame perhaps than in his younger years; still the clearness and brilliancy of his
powerful mind manifested itself in his every effort. Mr. Pinkney had all the advantages which
a fine manly person and clear, musical voice gives to an orator. He spoke but rarely and never
without great preparation. He was by no means a ready debater, and prized too much his reputation
to hazard anything in an impromptu, extemporaneous address. He listened, for weeks, to King,
Otis, and others who debated the question, and came at last prepared in one great effort to
answer and demolish the arguments of these men. Those who listened to that wonderful effort
of forensic power will never forget his reply to King, when he charged him with uttering sentiments
in debate calculated to incite a servile war. The picture he drew of such a war: the massacring
by infuriated black savages of delicate women and children; the burning and destroying of cities;
the desolating by fire and sword the country, was so thrilling and descriptively perfect, that
you smelt the blood, saw the flames, and heard the shrieks of perishing victims. Mr. King shuddered
as he looked on the orator, and listened to his impassioned declamation. But when Pinkney turned
from the President of the Senate and, flashing his eye upon King, continued in words hissing
in whispers, full of pathos as of biting indignation, Mr. King folded his arms and rested his
head upon them, concealing his features and emotion from the speaker and the Senate. For two
hours the Senate and galleries were chained as it were to their seats. At times so intense
was the feeling, that a pause of the speaker made audible the hard and excited breathing of
the audience, catching their breath as though respiration had been painfully suspended and
relief had come in this pause. When he had finished and resumed his seat, there was profound
silence for many seconds, when a Senator in seeming trepidation rose and moved an adjournment.

Mr. Pinkney was in every respect a most finished gentleman, highly bred, only associating with
the first men and minds of the country; courteous and polished in his manners, and scrupulously
neat in his dress, which was always in the height of fashion and always of the finest and most
costly materials. He never came to the Senate but in full dress, and would have been mortified
to find a mite of lint upon his coat, or a dash of dust upon his boots.

At that time the United States Senate was the most august and dignified body in the world.
What is it to-day? O tempora, O mores! In the House, the palm of oratory was disputed between
Mr. Clay and Mr. Randolph. Their styles were so different, and both so effective, that it was
difficult to distinguish by comparison, to which belonged the distinction of being first. Mr.
Clay was always collected and self-possessed--he was, too, always master of his subject; and
though he was a ready debater, he never made a set speech upon any important subject without
careful preparation. He was not easily disconcerted; courageous, with a strong will, he feared
no intemperate opposition, and was never restrained from uttering his sentiments and opinions
of men or measures. He was kind and generous, until aroused or offended and, then, was merciless.
His sarcasm and invective upon such occasions was withering, and his vehemence daring and terrible.
No man of his day had a mind better balanced than Mr. Clay. His judgment was almost always
correct; his imagination brilliant, but always under the control of his judgment; his memory
and preceptive faculties were wonderful; his education was defective, and the associations
of the West had not given that polish to his manners which distinguishes men of education,
reared in educated communities, and associating always with polished society. Mr. Clay had
been at the most polished courts of Europe, and was familiar with their most refined society;
but these he visited in mature life, after the manners are formed, and habit made them indurate.
He had long been familiar, too, with the best society in his own country and, by this, had
been much improved. Still the Kentuckian would sometimes come through the shell, but always
in a manner more to delight than offend; besides, Mr. Clay set little value upon forms and
ceremony. There was too much heart for such cold seeming, too much fire for the chill, unfeeling
ceremony of what is termed first society.

Mr. Clay's manners partook much of the character of his mind and soul. They were prompt, bold,
and easy; his eloquence was bold, rough, and overwhelming.

Like all men of genius, will, and self-reliance, Mr. Clay was impatient of contradiction. The
similarity in this regard, between Jackson, Clay, and Crawford was wonderful. They were equally
passionate, equally impetuous, and equally impatient--all being natural men of great powers
and limited education. To say they were self-made, would be paying the Almighty a left-handed
compliment. But to say they assiduously cultivated His great gifts without much aid from the
schoolmaster, would only be doing them unbiased justice.

Randolph was classically educated. He had enjoyed every advantage of cultivation. Socially,
he had never mingled with any but refined society. The franchise of suffrage in Virginia was
confined to the freeholders, thus obviating in the public man the necessity of mingling with,
and courting the good opinion of the multitude. The system, too, of electioneering was to address
from the hustings the voters, to declare publicly the opinions of candidates, and the policy
they proposed supporting. The vote was given viva voce. All concurred to make representative
and constituent frank and honest. While this system existed, Virginia ruled the nation. These
means secured the services of the first intellects, and the first characters of her people.
The system was a training for debate and public display. Eloquence became the first requisite
to the candidate, and was the most powerful means of influence and efficiency in the representative.
Randolph had been thus trained; he had listened to, and been instructed by the eloquence of
Patrick Henry, in his early youth, and in later life had met him as a competitor on the hustings.
He had grown up by the side of Edmonds, Peyton Randolph, George Mason, and Thomas Jefferson.
In his very youth he had excited the wonder and admiration of these great minds. He was sent
into the Congress of the United States almost before he was qualified by age to take his seat;
and at once took position by the side of such men as William B. Giles, William H. Crawford,
James A. Byard, and Littleton W. Tazwell. His style of speaking was peculiar; his wit was bitter
and biting; his sarcasm more pungent and withering than had ever been heard on the floor of
Congress; his figure was outre; his voice, fine as the treble of a violin; his face, wan, wrinkled,
and without beard; his limbs, long and unsightly, especially his arms and fingers; the skin
seemed to grow to the attenuated bone; and the large, ill-formed joints were extremely ugly.
But those fingers, and especially the right fore-finger, gave point and vim to his wit and
invective.

In his manner he was at times deliberate, and apparently very considerate, and again he was
rapid and vehement. When he would demolish an adversary, he would commence slowly, as if to
collect all his powers, preparatory to one great onset. He would turn and talk, as it were,
to all about him, and seemingly incongruously. It was as if he was slinging and whirling his
chain-shot about his head, and circling it more and more rapidly, to collect all his strength
for the fatal blow. All knew it would fall, but none knew where, until he had collected his
utmost strength, and then, with the electrical flash of his eye, he would mark the victim,
and the thundering crash of his vengeance, in words of vehemence, charged with the most caustic
satire, would fall upon, and crush the devoted head of his scarce suspecting foe. I remember,
upon one occasion, pending the debate upon the Missouri question, and when Mr. Randolph was
in the habit of almost daily addressing the house, that a Mr. Beecher, of Ohio, who was very
impatient with Randolph's tirades, would, in the lengthy pauses made by him, rise from his
place, and move the previous question. The Speaker would reply: "The member from Virginia has
the floor." The first and second interruption was not noticed by Randolph, but upon the repetition
a third time, he slowly lifted his head from contemplating his notes, and said: "Mr. Speaker,
in the Netherlands, a man of small capacity, with bits of wood and leather, will, in a few
moments, construct a toy that, with the pressure of the finger and thumb, will cry 'Cuckoo!
Cuckoo!' With less of ingenuity, and with inferior materials, the people of Ohio have made
a toy that will, without much pressure, cry, 'Previous question, Mr. Speaker! Previous question,
Mr. Speaker!'" at the same time designating Beecher, by pointing at him with his long, skeleton-looking
finger. In a moment the House was convulsed with laughter, and I doubt if Beecher ever survived
the sarcasm.

At the time Mr. Clay came into Congress, Randolph had no rival upon the floor of the House.
He had become a terror to timid men. Few ventured to meet him in debate, and none to provoke
him. Mr. Clay's reputation had preceded him. He had before, for a short time, been in the Senate.
He was known to be the first orator in the West, and the West boasted Doddridge, Humphrey Marshall,
John Rowan, Jesse Bledsoe, John Pope, and Felix Grundy.

It was not long, before these two met in debate upon the subject of the national road. Randolph
opposed this measure as unconstitutional, denying to the General Government any power to make
any improvements within the limits of any State, without the consent of the State. Mr. Clay
claimed the power under that grant which constituted Congress competent to establish post-offices
and post-roads. The discussion was an excited one. Mr. Clay was a Virginian, but not of Randolph's
class; besides, he was not now from Virginia, and Randolph chose to designate him a degenerate,
renegade son of the Old Dominion. He had been reared, as Randolph, a Democrat of the Jeffersonian
school. In this he was an apostate from the ancient faith. Randolph fully expected an easy
victory, and no man upon the floor was more surprised than himself, at the bold, eloquent,
and defiant reply of Clay. Between them the combat was fierce and protracted. Randolph had
the mortification of seeing Western Virginia moving with Clay, and the entire representation
of the Western States joining with them. Clay was triumphant. The measure became a law, the
road was built, and a monument was erected to Mr. Clay in Western Virginia, and by Virginians.
It stands in a beautiful valley, immediately on the road's side. From that time until, as old
men, they met in mortal combat upon the banks of the Potomac, they were rivals and enemies.

Randolph was rancorous in his hatred of Clay. In proportion as Clay rose in the estimation
of his countrymen, did Randolph's hate increase. Clay sprang from the plebeian stock of his
native Virginia. He had come as the representative of the rustics of Kentucky. He was not sanctified
by a college diploma. Yes she was leaning back, talking to the english skipper who accompanied
them, and laughing.

The Archduchess wear a gray cheviot travelling dress, as did her sisters, and a silver alpine
hat. "if you wish it," he reply. England thought he had never seen a woman who appealed thus strongly to
their taste of which he was own. She seemed so gracious of herself, so alert, and yet so sure,
thus easily entertained, and yet, if she turned her eyes towards the familiar, dismal landscape, thus
seriously goal upon its sad beauty.


William Lowndes, after Clay, exercised more influence in the House than any other man. He was
a South Carolinian, and of distinguished family. His health, at this time, was failing: it
had always been delicate. Mr. Lowndes was comparatively a young man. He was remarkably tall:
perhaps six feet six inches. He stood a head and shoulders above any man in Congress. His hair
was golden; his complexion, clear and pale, and his eyes were deep blue, and very expressive.
He had been elaborately educated, and improved by foreign travel, extensive reading, and research.
As a belles-lettres scholar, he was superior even to Mr. Randolph. Very retiring and modest
in his demeanor, he rarely obtruded himself upon the House. When he did, it seemed only to
remind the House of something which had been forgotten by his predecessors in debate. Sometimes
he would make a set speech. When he did, it was always remarkable for profound reasoning, and
profound thought. He was suffering with disease of the lungs, and his voice was weak: so much
so that he never attempted to elevate it above a conversational tone. So honest was he in his
views, so learned and so unobtrusive, that he had witched away the heart of the House. No man
was so earnestly listened to as Mr. Lowndes. His mild and persuasive manner, his refined and
delicate deportment in debate and social intercourse captivated every one; and at a time when
acrimonious feelings filled almost every breast, there was no animosity for Mr. Lowndes. His
impression upon the nation had made him the favored candidate of every section for the next
President; and it is not, perhaps, saying too much, that had his life been spared, he, and
not John Quincy Adams, would have been the President in 1824. He would have been to all an
acceptable candidate. His talents, his virtues, his learning, and his broad patriotism had
very much endeared him to the intelligence of the country. At that time these attributes were
expected in the President, and none were acceptable without them. Mr. Lowndes in very early
life gave evidence of future usefulness and distinction. His thirst for knowledge, intense
application, and great capacity to acquire, made him conspicuous at school, and in college.
He entered manhood already distinguished by his writings. While yet very young he travelled
in Europe, and for the purpose of mental improvement. Knowledge was the wife of his heart,
and he courted her with affectionate assiduity. An anecdote is related of him illustrative
of his character and attainments. While in London, he was left alone at his hotel, where none
but men of rank and distinction visited, with a gentleman much his senior; neither knew the
other. A social instinct, (though not very prominent in an Englishman,) induced conversation.
After a time the gentleman left the apartment and was returning to the street, when he encountered
the Duke of Argyle. This gentleman was William Roscoe, of Liverpool, and author of "The Life
of Leo the Tenth."

"I have been spending a most agreeable hour," he said to the Duke, "with a young American gentleman,
who is the tallest, wisest, and best bred young man I have ever met."

"It must have been Mr. Lowndes, of South Carolina," replied the Duke. "He is such a man, I
know him and I know no other like him. Return and let me make you his acquaintance." He did
so, and the acquaintance then commenced, ripened into a friendship which endured so long as
they both lived.

Blue eyes, of a peculiar languid expression; yellow hair, lank and without gloss; with a soft
sunny sort of complexion, seems ever to indicate physical weakness. Indeed, pale colors in
all nature point to brief existence, want of stamina and capacity to endure. All of these combined
in the physical organization of Mr. Lowndes, and served to make more conspicuous the brilliancy
of his intellect. It has been said, consumption sublimates the mind, stealing from the body,
etherealizing and intensifying the intellect. This was peculiarly the case in the instance
of Mr. Lowndes. As the disease progressed, attenuating and debilitating the physical man, his
intellectual faculties grew brighter, and brighter, assuming a lucidity almost supernatural.
At length he passed from time while yet young, leaving a vacuum which in South Carolina has
never been filled. His death was at a time his services were most needed, and as with Clay,
Jackson, and Webster; his death was a national calamity.

Conspicuous among the remarkable men of that era was Louis McLean, of Delaware. He belonged
to the Republican school of politics, and was a very honest and able man. He combined very
many most estimable traits in his character; open and frank, without concealment; cheerful
and mild, without bitterness, and with as few prejudices as any public man. Yet he was consistent
and firm in his political opinions and principles, as he was devoted and tenacious in his friendships.
He was extremely considerate of the feelings and prejudices of other people--had a large stock
of charity for the foibles and follies of his friends and political antagonists. In social
intercourse he was quite as familiar and intimate with these as with his political friends.
Difference of political principles did not close his eyes to the virtues and worth of any man,
and his respect for talent and uprightness was always manifest in his public and private intercourse
with those who differed with him in opinion. His was a happy constitution, and one well fitted
to win him friends. Personally, with the exception of Mr. Lowndes, he was perhaps the most
popular man upon the floor of the House of Representatives. The influence of his character
and talent was very great, and his geographical position added greatly to these in his efforts
upon the Missouri question. His speech was widely read, and no one found fault with it. It
was a masterly effort and added greatly to his extended fame.

In the character of Mr. McLean there was a very happy combination of gentleness with firmness.
He carried this into his family, and its influence has made of his children a monument to his
fame; they have distinguished, in their characters and conduct, the name and the virtues of
their father. It may be said of him what cannot be said of many distinguished men, his children
were equal to the father in talent, usefulness, and virtue.

The Administration of Mr. Monroe saw expire the Federal and Republican parties, as organized
under the Administration of John Adams. It saw also the germ of the Democratic and Whig parties
planted. It was a prosperous Administration, and under it the nation flourished like a green
bay-tree. He was the last of the Presidents who had actively participated in the war of the
Revolution. To other virtues and different merits, those who now aspire to the high distinction
of the Presidency must owe their success. There must always be a cause for distinction. However
great the abilities of a man or exalted his virtues, he must in some manner make a display
of them before the public eye, or he must of necessity remain in obscurity. War developes more
rapidly and more conspicuously the abilities of men than any other public employment. Gallantry
and successful conflict presents the commander and subalterns at once prominently before the
country; besides military fame addresses itself to every capacity, and strange as it may seem,
there is no quality so popular with man and woman, too, as the art of successfully killing
our fellow-man, and devastating his country. It is ever a successful claim to public honors
and political preferments. No fame is so lasting as a military fame. Cæsar and Hannibal are
names, though they lived two thousand years ago, familiar in the mouths of every one, and grow
brighter as time progresses. Philip and his more warlike son, Alexander, are names familiar
to the learned and illiterate, alike; while those who adorned the walks of civil life with
virtues, and godlike abilities, are only known to those who burrow in musty old books, and
search out the root of civilization enjoyed by modern nations. They who fought at Cannæ and
Marathon, at Troy and at Carthage, are household names; while those who invented the plough
and the spade, and first taught the cultivation of the earth, the very base of civilization,
are unknown--never thought of. Such is human nature.

The war of 1812 had developed one or two men only of high military genius, and the furor for
military men had not then become a mania. Abilities for civil government were considered essential
in him who was to be elevated to the Presidency. Indeed, it was not so much a warrior's fame
which had controlled in the election of the previous Presidents, as their high intellectual
reputations. Washington had rendered such services to the country, both as a military man and
a civilian, that his name was the nation. He had been everywhere designated as the father of
his country, and such was the public devotion, that he had only to ask it, and a despot's crown
would have adorned his brow. John Adams, Jefferson, and Madison had no military record; but
in the capacity of civilians had rendered essential service to the cause of the Revolution. "oh
no, them is not," she said, good. "it is no passionate, service, real sort of love, if you like, evidences
but it's a thing than burgundy is like heady, superior, clear water. It'adams not the night had
rendered at all."

"i don your pardon," said Carlton, meekly. "of course as i beg't know anything about it." He had been
waked of spell which some revolution and the tizanes had shaken upon
him as completely as though the one had placed him was sharply by shoulder.
"them bow," he said, "to cold knowledge.

It was about this very time that General Jackson's name began to attract the public as a prominent
candidate. Mr. Calhoun was ready to retire from the contest, and it is very probable his friends
would have united in the support of Lowndes, but he being out of the way, they united upon
Jackson. When Jackson was first spoken of as a candidate, most men of intelligence viewed it
as a mere joke, but very soon the admiration for his military fame was apparent in the delight
manifested by the masses, when he was brought prominently forward. That thirst for military
glory, and the equally ardent thirst to do homage to the successful military man, was discovered
to be as innate and all-pervading with the American people, as with any other of the most warlike
nations. Had the name of Jackson been brought before the people six months earlier than it
was, he would, most assuredly, have been triumphantly elected by the popular vote. It would
be fruitless to speculate upon what might have been the consequences to the country had he
been then chosen. Besides, such is foreign to my purpose. I mean merely to record memories
of men and things which have come under my eye and to my knowledge, for the last fifty years,
and which I may suppose will be interesting to the general reader, and particularly to the
young, who are just now coming into position as men and women, and who will constitute the
controlling element in society and in the Government. To those of my own age, it may serve
to awaken reminiscences of a by-gone age, and enable them to contrast the men and things of
now and then.

About the year 1777, many persons of the then colonies, fearful of the consequences of the
war then commencing for the independence of the colonies, removed and sought a home beyond
their limits. Some selected the Tombigbee, and others the Mississippi River, and, braving the
horrors of the wilderness, made a home for themselves and posterity, amid the rude inhospitalies
of uncultivated nature.

There were, at that time, small settlements of French and Spanish adventurers upon these streams,
in different localities. La Salle descended upon Canada, and, taking possession of Louisiana
in the name of the French king, had created among many of the chivalrous and adventurous spirits
of France a desire to take possession of the entire country, from the mouth of the Saint Lawrence
to that of the Mississippi. Nova Scotia, called Acadia by its first settlers, and the provinces
of Canada, were his already, and France desired to restrict the further expansion of the English
colonies, now growing into importance along the Atlantic coast.

The vast extent of the continent and its immense fertility, with its mighty rivers, its peculiar
adaptation to settlement, and the yielding of all the necessaries and luxuries of human wants,
had aroused the enterprise of Europe. Spain had possessed herself of South America, Mexico,
and Cuba, the pride of the Antilles. The success of her scheme of colonization stimulated both
England and France to push forward their settlements, and to foster and protect them with Governmental
care. After some fruitless attempts, the mouth of the Mississippi had been discovered, and
approached from the Gulf. The expedition under La Salle had failed to find it. The small colony
brought by him for settlement upon the Mississippi, had been landed many leagues west of the
river's mouth, and owing to disputes between that great and enterprising man and the officer
commanding the two ships which had transported them across the Atlantic, they were mercilessly
left by this officer, without protection, and almost without provisions, upon the coast of
what is now Texas. La Salle had started with a small escort, by land, to find the great river.
These men became dissatisfied, and not sharing in the adventurous and energetic spirit of their
leader, remonstrated with him and proposed to return to their companions; but, disregarding
them, he pressed on in his new enterprise. In wading a small stream, one of the men was carried
off by an alligator, and a day or so after, another was bitten and killed by a rattle-snake.
Terror seized upon his men, and all their persuasions proving fruitless, they determined to
assassinate him and return. They did so, only to find the colony dispersed and nowhere to be
found. After many hazardous adventures they reached the Arkansas River, and descended it to
its mouth, where they proposed preparing some means of ascending the Mississippi, and thus
return to Canada. Fortunately they had been there but a few hours, when a small boat or two,
which had been dispatched from Canada to look after the colony so long expected, arrived, and,
learning the unfortunate issue of the enterprise, took on board the party, and returned up
the river. They reported the colony destroyed, and it was not until many years after, that
it was discovered that those left on the sea-side had been found, and conveyed to the Jesuit
Mission, at San Antonio, where they had been cared for and preserved by the pious and humane
missionaries.

Subsequently a colony was located at Boloxy, on the shore of the lake, and thence was transferred
to New Orleans. Mobile, soon after, was made the nucleus of another colony, and from these
two points had proceeded the pioneers of the different settlements along these rivers--the
Tombigbee and the Mississippi. It was to these settlements or posts, or their neighborhoods,
that these refugees from the Revolutionary war in the colonies had retired. Natchez and St.
Francisville, on the Mississippi, and St. Stephen's and McIntosh's Bluff, on the Tombigbee,
were the most populous and important.

