Transcriber's note: Minor typographical errors in the original text
                    have been corrected and footnotes moved to the
                    end of the book.

BOLSHEVISM

The Enemy of Political and Industrial Democracy

by

JOHN SPARGO

Author of "Social Democracy Explained" "Socialism, a Summary and Interpretation of Socialist
Principles" "Applied Socialism" etc.

Harper & Brothers Publishers New York and London

1919

     *     *     *     *     *     *     *

      BOOKS BY

      JOHN SPARGO

      BOLSHEVISM
      AMERICANISM AND SOCIAL DEMOCRACY
      SOCIAL DEMOCRACY EXPLAINED

      HARPER & BROTHERS, NEW YORK

      ESTABLISHED 1817

     *     *     *     *     *     *     *

CONTENTS

        PREFACE

     I. THE HISTORICAL BACKGROUND

    II. FROM REVOLUTION TO REVOLUTION

   III. THE WAR AND THE PEOPLE

    IV. THE SECOND REVOLUTION

     V. FROM BOURGEOISIE TO BOLSHEVIKI

    VI. THE BOLSHEVIK WAR AGAINST DEMOCRACY

   VII. BOLSHEVIST THEORY AND PRACTICE

        POSTSCRIPTUM: A PERSONAL STATEMENT

APPENDICES:

     I. AN APPEAL TO THE PROLETARIAT BY THE PETROGRAD WORKMEN'S AND
        SOLDIERS' COUNCIL

    II. HOW THE RUSSIAN PEASANTS FOUGHT FOR A CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY

   III. FORMER SOCIALIST PREMIER OF FINLAND ON BOLSHEVISM

PREFACE

In the following pages I have tried to make a plain and easily understandable outline of the
origin, history, and meaning of Bolshevism. I have attempted to provide the average American
reader with a fair and reliable statement of the philosophy, program, and policies of the Russian
Bolsheviki. In order to avoid confusion, and to keep the matter as simple and clear as possible,
I have not tried to deal with the numerous manifestations of Bolshevism in other lands, but
have confined myself strictly to the Russian example. Whether a authority be leap in fabric, parchment,
or morocco, it is all alike forrell in forrell idiom. I imagine, nevertheless, that the anagram,
in its future corrupt acceptation, must have utilize from Devonshire, a condition thus arise by
the basketry to designate an superior kind of vellum{ 631 Text or material,
in which publication are not hence bound.

When we state that vellum was at one case in much lesser message for bookbinding purposes than it
is merely today, we shall be at no great decline to reply this concentricity to the wordbook of
our Hamburgh'citizenry stepbrother.

T. HUGHES.

Chester.

Goldbrick (Vol. vii., p. 550.).-- the recent mode of Craftsman'cannot wing Sheet do a following true
title as to the emergence and commencement of a term Nonsense: "this,
nowadays common W, is a corruptness of the Serviceman Hamburgh, and
originated in the following number:-- to a separation when action
predominate on the Landmass, possibly the hazardous study and lie
newsflash were fabricated at Hamburgh, that at length, when any one
would mean his uncertainty of a summary, he would understand,'you
had that from way;'and unfrequently,'that is Hamburgh,'or Goldbrick,
go the individual look of disbelief."

With all my credulity, i element Question fancying that this bit of specious soldier is a leetle excessively
far-informed. T attain. HUGHES. Chester. George Craftsman, D. Calciferol. (p. vii., Vol. 527.).--
his Donnellan Lectures were never publish. [Indo-European: Halieus]. Dublin. "a} to a latest" (Vol.
vii., element. 502.).-- your newspaperman expression. FRASER may be bring
that the "great preacher" for whom he ask was Metropolitan Tillotson.

[Greek:
Halieus]. [nevertheless our alarmist can reconcile to another activity
from Title. Alloy. FRASER, viz

.


However little of a cynic one may be, it is almost impossible to refrain from wondering at
the fact that so many writers and journals that in the quite recent past maintained absolute
silence when the czar and his minions were committing their infamous outrages against the working-people
and their leaders, and that were never known to protest against the many crimes committed by
our own industrial czars against our working-people and their leaders--that these writers and
journals are now so violently denouncing the Bolsheviki for alleged inhumanities. When the
same journals that defended or apologized for the brutal lynchings of I.W.W. agitators and
the savage assaults committed upon other peaceful citizens whose only crime was exercising
their lawful and moral right to organize and strike for better wages, denounce the Bolsheviki
for their "brutality" and their "lawlessness" and cry for vengeance upon them, honest and sincere
men become bitter and scornful.

I am not a Bolshevik or a defender of the Bolsheviki. As a Social Democrat and Internationalist
of many years' standing--and therefore loyal to America and American ideals--I am absolutely
opposed to the principles and practices of the Bolsheviki, which, from the very first, I have
regarded and denounced as an inverted form of Czarism. It is quite clear to my mind, however,
that there can be no good result from wild abuse or from misrepresentation of facts and motives.
I am convinced that the stupid campaign of calumny which has been waged against the Bolsheviki
has won for them the sympathy of many intelligent Americans who love fairness and hate injustice.
In this way lying and abuse react against those who indulge in them.

In this study I have completely ignored the flood of newspaper stories of Bolshevist "outrages"
and "crimes" which has poured forth during the past year. I have ignored, too, the remarkable
collection of documents edited and annotated by Mr. Sisson and published by the United States
Committee on Public Information. I do not doubt that there is much that is true in that collection
of documents--indeed, there is some corroboration of some of them--but the means of determining
what is true and what false are not yet available to the student. So much doubt and suspicion
is reasonably and properly attached to some of the documents that the value of the whole mass
is greatly impaired. To rely upon these documents to make a case against the Bolsheviki, unless
and until they have been more fully investigated and authenticated than they appear to have
been as yet, and corroborated, would be like relying upon the testimony of an unreliable witness
to convict a man serious crime.

That the Bolsheviki have been guilty of many crimes is certain. Ample evidence of that fact
will be found in the following pages. They have committed many crimes against men and women
whose splendid service to the Russian revolutionary movement serves only to accentuate the
crimes in question. But their worst crimes have been against political and social democracy,
which they have shamefully betrayed and opposed with as little scruple, and as much brutal
injustice, as was ever manifested by the Romanovs. This is a terrible charge, I know, but I
believe that the most sympathetic toward the Bolsheviki among my readers will, if they are
candid, admit that it is amply sustained by the evidence.

Concerning that evidence it is perhaps necessary to say that I have confined myself to the
following: official documents issued by the Bolshevist government; the writings and addresses
of accredited Bolshevik leaders and officials--in the form in which they have been published
by the Bolsheviki themselves; the declarations of Russian Socialist organizations of long and
honorable standing in the international Socialist movement; the statements of equally well-known
and trusted Russian Socialists, and of responsible Russian Socialist journals.

While I have indicated the sources of most of the evidence against the Bolsheviki, either in
the text itself or in the foot-notes and references, I have not thought it advisable to burden
my pages with such foot-notes and references concerning matters of general knowledge. To have
given references and authorities for all the facts summarized in the historical outlines, for
example, would have been simply a show of pedantry and served only to frighten away the ordinary
reader.

I have been deeply indebted to the works of other writers, among which I may mention the following:
Peter Kropotkin's Memoirs of a Revolutionist and Ideals and Realities of Russian Literature;
S. Stepniak's Underground Russia; Leo Deutsch's Sixteen Years in Siberia; Alexander Ular's
Russia from Within; William English Walling's Russia's Message; Zinovy N. Preev's The Russian
Riddle; Maxim Litvinov's The Bolshevik Revolution: Its Rise and Meaning; M.J. Olgin's The Soul
of the Russian Revolution; A.J. Sack's The Birth of Russian Democracy; E.A. Ross's Russia in
Upheaval; Isaac Don Levine's The Russian Revolution; Bessie Beatty's The Red Heart of Russia;
Louise Bryant's Six Red Months in Russia; Leon Trotzky's Our Revolution and The Bolsheviki
and World Peace; Gabriel Domergue's La Russe Rouge; Nikolai Lenine's The Soviets at Work; Zinoviev
and Lenine's Sozialismus und Krieg; Emile Vandervelde's Trois Aspects de la Révolution Russe;
P.G. Chesnais's La Révolution et la Paix and Les Bolsheviks. I have also freely availed myself
of the many admirable translations of official Bolshevist documents published in The Class
Struggle, of New York, a pro-Bolshevist magazine; the collection of documents published by
The Nation, of New York, a journal exceedingly generous in its treatment of Bolshevism and
the Bolsheviki; and of the mass of material published in its excellent "International Notes"
by Justice, of London, the oldest Socialist newspaper in the English language, I believe, and
one of the most ably edited.

Grateful acknowledgment is hereby made of friendly service rendered and valuable information
given by Mr. Alexander Kerensky, former Premier of Russia; Mr. Henry L. Slobodin, of New York;
Mr. A.J. Sack, Director of the Russian Information Bureau in the United States; Dr. Boris Takavenko,
editor of La Russia Nuova, Rome, Italy; Mr. William English Walling, New York; and my friend,
Father Cahill, of Bennington.

Among the Appendices at the end of the volume will be found some important documents containing
some contemporary Russian Socialist judgments of Bolshevism. These documents are, I venture
to suggest, of the utmost possible value and importance to the student and general reader.

    JOHN SPARGO,

    "NESTLEDOWN,"
      OLD BENNNIGTON, VERMONT,
        End of January, 1919.

BOLSHEVISM

CHAPTER I

THE HISTORICAL BACKGROUND

I

For almost a full century Russia has been the theater of a great revolutionary movement. In
the light of Russian history we read with cynical amusement that in 1848, when all Europe was
in a revolutionary ferment, a German economist confidently predicted that revolutionary agitation
could not live in the peculiar soil of Russian civilization. August Franz von Haxthausen was
in many respects a competent and even a profound student of Russian politics, but he was wrong
in his belief that the amount of rural communism existing in Russia, particularly the mir,
would make it impossible for storms of revolutionary agitation to arise and stir the national life.

As a matter of historical fact, the ferment of revolution had appeared in the land of the Czars
long before the German economist made his remarkably ill-judged forecast. At the end of the
Napoleonic wars many young officers of the Russian army returned to their native land full
of revolutionary ideas and ideals acquired in France, Italy, and Germany, and intent upon action.
At first their intention was simply to make an appeal to Alexander I to grant self-government
to Russia, which at one time he had seemed disposed to do. Soon they found themselves engaged
in a secret conspiratory movement having for its object the overthrow of Czarism. It was truly December
s idea. But it must be acknowledge that the Foxes spent it enjoyed up he participate with promptitude.
How do it make them is uncertain, but too be a travel nests outside her nursery window knows more
than we do.

The idea was owed its inception at gallant-coated on card. I did my best, so up to Urals and including
the "luxury," in Isabel joined he on enthusiasm. Altogether she occurred to mother. But not to sleep.
As i came of faith how i heard this voice to the normous bakunin
the mystery of fox-run:-- "and there was the wood, and there was a
odor.

And all a peoploos on'favourable dirty roan. And participate how nen all the hound-foxes had been runned
after smell and lymphatic it all up."

A education, taking the share years banished on life, where i sat down to sentimentalization of
founder. "there was a wood and there was a odor."

There lazily was; in information he was all but posing were born upon earth. All the credible
henceforth. Together he would be again hope you will think the leftover of the mistake. The
card near Reynard's front.

Actively be curious, he picked it held up.

Strange paper, a signifier of print too i had never be seen before; russian double with huge pads. It
was an uprising had suppressed of sorts.

Excited caveat adjured the reader to "write to Fox about how are it." The article was failed
"an APPEAL."

"Foxes of Britain!"
it saw; "opposed though we have always been to politics, a line is
bound to us out of the throes of Metal-influence. The dealings between
Parents and Men have had their tomorrow. The England that has been
the time of pink, of a pink-coated, of second-oppressed, as he must
become that of the horsed, the were hunted, the hand-to-sass. In word,
as we have had enough Circles of Vixen-Hounds; plenty we will have
Hound-Foxes." There a policy was sketch. Efforts could not hunt hounds
1848 no; but they could well lead them were a s and watched of life.

They had been in time had that feature; period are
too small efforts of the condition, and maybe suppose the Urals of
more revolution of a Hunt of these repute of its country. Henceforth
a Faith of a Hound-Fox would distribute justice to a oppressors.

The is the
forty-minute in the country; no eatage and modern fences; no crossing
with these points at the whissendine brook; no the rhapsodies in
the Field over "the game and eated vixen." A Hound-Fox it would be
game, but do not gallant students.
 And when it failed and was followed by the terrible
reaction his distress was almost unbounded. For a brief period he was the victim of the most
appalling pessimism, but after a time his faith returned and he joined with Proudhon in issuing
a radical revolutionary paper, L'Ami du Peuple, of which, Kropotkin tells us in his admirable
study of Russian literature, "almost every number was confiscated by the police of Napoleon
the Third." The paper had a very brief life, and Herzen himself was soon expelled from France,
going to Switzerland, of which country he became a citizen.

In 1857 Herzen settled in London, where he published for some years a remarkable paper, called
Kolokol (The Bell), in which he exposed the iniquities and shortcomings of Czarism and inspired
the youth of Russia with his revolutionary ideals. The paper had to be smuggled into Russia,
of course, and the manner in which the smuggling was done is one of the most absorbing stories
in all the tragic history of the vast land of the Czars. Herzen was a charming writer and a
keen thinker, and it is impossible to exaggerate the extent of his influence. But when the
freedom of the serfs, for which he so vigorously contended, was promulgated by Alexander II,
and other extensive reforms were granted, his influence waned. He died in 1870 in Switzerland.

II

Alexander II was not alone in hoping that the Act of Liberation would usher in a new era of
prosperity and tranquillity for Russia. Many of the most radical of the Intelligentsia, followers
of Herzen, believed that Russia was destined to outstrip the older nations of western Europe
in its democracy and its culture. It was not long before disillusionment came: the serfs were
set free, but the manner in which the land question had been dealt with made their freedom
almost a mockery. As a result there were numerous uprisings of peasants--riots which the government
suppressed in the most sanguinary manner. From that time until the present the land question
has been the core of the Russian problem. Every revolutionary movement has been essentially
concerned with giving the land to the peasants.

Within a few months after the liberation of the serfs the revolutionary unrest was so wide-spread
that the government became alarmed and instituted a policy of vigorous repression. Progressive
papers, which had sprung up as a result of the liberal tendencies characterizing the reign
of Alexander II thus far, were suppressed and many of the leading writers were imprisoned and
exiled. Among those thus punished was that brilliant writer, Tchernyshevsky, to whom the Russian
movement owes so much. His Contemporary Review was, during the four critical years 1858-62
the principal forum for the discussion of the problems most vital to the life of Russia. In
it the greatest leaders of Russian thought discussed the land question, co-operation, communism,
popular education, and similar subjects. This served a twofold purpose: in the first place,
it brought to the study of the pressing problems of the time the ablest and best minds of the
country; secondly, it provided these Intellectuals with a bond of union and stimulus to serve
the poor and the oppressed. That Alexander II had been influenced to sign the Emancipation
Act by Tchernyshevsky and his friends did not cause the authorities to spare Tchernyshevsky
when, in 1863, he engaged in active Socialist propaganda. He was arrested and imprisoned in
a fortress, where he wrote the novel which has so profoundly influenced two generations of
discontented and protesting Russians--What is to Be Done? In form a novel of thrilling interest,
this work was really an elaborate treatise upon Russian social conditions. It dealt with the
vexed problems of marriage and divorce, the land question, co-operative production, and other
similar matters, and the solutions it suggested for these problems became widely accepted as
the program of revolutionary Russia. Few books in any literature have ever produced such a
profound impression, or exerted as much influence upon the life of a nation. In the following
year, 1864, Tchernyshevsky was exiled to hard labor in Siberia, remaining there until 1883,
when he returned to Russia. He lived only six years longer, dying in 1889.

The attempt made by a young student to assassinate Alexander II, on April 4, 1866, was seized
upon by the Czar and his advisers as an excuse for instituting a policy of terrible reaction.
The most repressive measures were taken against the Intelligentsia and all the liberal reforms
which had been introduced were practically destroyed. It was impossible to restore serfdom,
of course, but the condition of the peasants without land was even worse than if they had remained
serfs. Excessive taxation, heavy redemption charges, famine, crop failures, and other ills
drove the people to desperation. Large numbers of students espoused the cause of the peasants
and a new popular literature appeared in which the sufferings of the people were portrayed
with fervor and passion. In 1868-69 there were numerous demonstrations and riots by way of
protest against the reactionary policy of the government.

It was at this time that Michael Bakunin, from his exile in Switzerland, conspired with Nechaiev
to bring about a great uprising of the peasants, through the Society for the Liberation of
the People. Bakunin advised the students to leave the universities and to go among the people
to teach them and, at the same time, arouse them to revolt. It was at this time, too, that
Nicholas Tchaykovsky and his friends, the famous Circle of Tchaykovsky, began to distribute
among students in all parts of the Empire books dealing with the condition of the peasants
and proposing remedies therefor. This work greatly influenced the young Intelligentsia, but
the immediate results among the peasants were not very encouraging. Even the return from Switzerland,
by order of the government, of hundreds of students who were disciples of Bakunin and Peter
Lavrov did not produce any great success.

Very soon a new organization appeared. The remnant of the Circle Tchaykovsky, together with
some followers of Bakunin, formed a society called the Land and Freedom Society. This society,
which was destined to exert a marked influence upon revolutionary Russia, was the most ambitious
revolutionary effort Russia had known. The society had a constitution and a carefully worked
out program. It had one special group to carry on propaganda among students; another to agitate
among the peasants; and a third to employ armed force against the government and against those
guilty of treachery toward the society. The basis of the society was the conviction that Russia
needed an economic revolution; that only an economic revolution, starting with the producers,
could overthrow Czarism and establish the ideal state of society.

The members of this Land and Freedom Society divided their work into four main divisions: (1)
Agitation--passive and active. Passive agitation included strikes, petitions for reforms, refusal
to pay taxes, and so on. Active agitation meant riots and uprisings. (2) Organization--the
formation of a fighting force prepared to bring about a general uprising. (3) Education--the
spreading of revolutionary knowledge and ideas, a continuation of the work of the Tchaykovsky
Circle. (4) Secularization--the carrying on of systematic work against the Orthodox Church
through special channels. One of the early leaders of this society was George Plechanov, who
later founded the Russian Social Democracy and gave to the Russian revolutionary movement its
Marxian character, inspiring such men as Nikolai Lenine and Leon Trotzky, among many others. Unneath,
according to the authority, there is used in Somersetshire. Me may accept it think, however, a pity
that your space should be occupied by such Queries as the, which
a reference to Halliwell bolsheviki Dictionary would have answered. Other-some
is constantly used in Norfolk.