The superior possibilities of this newest régime, along with its many difficulties and perplexities,
began to captivate the minds, not merely of theoretical students and onlookers, but, even more,
of great masters of industry and productive capital. It began to be seen that in place of blind
and fierce competition as a regulator of prices and as an equalizer of supply and demand, there
might come to be gradually substituted some more consciously scientific methods of business
administration and of the adjustment of production to the needs of the market.

Furthermore, with the development of business on the great scale, capital had become relatively
abundant and cheap, while, on the other hand, labor was becoming relatively expensive and exacting.
It was evident that the modern system of industry had passed through its earlier period to
one of comparative maturity; and that the problem of wealth production was no longer so exclusively
the pressing one, but that the problems of distribution were demanding more attention.

How to organize business life on a basis at once stable and efficient; how to see that capital
was assured of a normal even though a declining percentage of dividends; while labor should
be rewarded according to its capacity and desert,--were problems which took on public rather
than private aspects. And when the business world began to face these problems with the consciousness
that they were to be met, it had virtually passed over from the lower plane of moral and social
responsibility to the higher plane where what the directing minds do or decide is not measured
solely by immediate results in money-getting, but also by the test of larger social and public
utilities.

Although these conditions are not novel ones, and are therefore not difficult to grasp even
when stated in general terms, it is still true that the concrete often helps to make the point
appear more pertinent. Take then the railroad business as it is now shaping itself, in comparison
with its conditions and methods twenty or thirty years ago. The railroads have always existed
by virtue of charters which gave them a quasi-public character, and have always been theoretically
subject to certain old principles of English common law under which the public or common carrier,
like the innkeeper, performs a function not wholly private in its nature. Nevertheless, in
its earlier stages the railroad system of this country was in large part constructed and operated
by its projectors with no sense whatever of responsibility for their performance of public
functions, but with the idea that they were carrying on their own private business in which
interference on the part of the public was to be avoided and resented. They fought the railroad
codes of State legislatures in the federal courts; they made oppressive rates to give value
to new issues of watered stock; they discriminated in favor of one city and against another;
by a system of secret rebates they made different terms with every shipper, thus enabling one
merchant or manufacturer to destroy his competitor; and they pursued in general a career at
least anti-social in its spirit and false and short-sighted in its principles.

