It is worthy of notice, in the condition of this church, that while among a minority may be
found an "Antipas,--faithful martyr" for the cause of Christ, against those who hold the doctrine
of Balaam and the Nicolaitans: the majority are called upon to "repent,"--evidently for conniving
at the destructive errors and immoralities of those seducers. And unless the discipline of
the church was employed to "purge out these rebels;" the Master would take the work into his
own hand, and "fight against them with the sword of his mouth:" and then such as screened or
spared these sinners might expect to partake of their just punishment. Rulers in the church
"must give account for those over whom they watch."

Vs. 18-29.--The most lengthy epistle is sent to the church in Thyatira. He who is the "Son
of God," a divine person, possessing the essential attributes of omniscience and immutability,
has more to say to this church than to any of the rest. Commending, as usual, whatever was
commendable,--their "works, charity, service," etc.; "and the last to be more than the first:"
he has, nevertheless, "a few things against them,"--especially "suffering that woman Jezebel
to teach." Is this "woman Jezebel" to be taken in a literal or figurative sense? Analogy seems
to require a metaphorical sense. If, in the preceding epistle, "Balaam" is not to be understood
literally and personally, but figuratively and representatively, so Jezebel represents an individual,
or rather as that other woman, (ch. xvii. 4.) a faction or sect, who propagated destructive
heresy. Jezebel was daughter of Ethbaal, King of the Zidonians, whom Ahab married contrary
to the express law of God. (1 Kings xvi. 31; Deut. vii. 3.) She was a violent persecutor of
the Lord's people, because she was given to idolatry; and she was an instigator of all the
cruelty perpetrated by that wicked king, "whom Jezebel his wife stirred up." As Ahab suffered
his wife to control his policy, "giving him the vineyard of Naboth," etc., so it appears, the
rulers in this church are blamed for permitting "a woman to teach," contrary to the law of
Christ." (1 Tim. ii. 12.) She "called herself a prophetess,"--why not then require her to show
her credentials? Permitted to usurp the functions of a public teacher, she "seduced Christ's
servants" to join in the abominable rites of the heathen. Spiritual fornication, especially
when conducted by female agency, has always issued in that which is literal. This may be verified
from the time of Noah and Balaam till the erection of nunneries under the sanction of the "man
of sin." The distinction here between "committing fornication" and "eating things sacrificed
unto idols," intimates that the "adultery" is to be taken in a literal sense. Time was allowed
for repentance, "and she repented not." All this time the rulers were culpable: therefore the
Lord himself, as before, will interpose to rectify such gross sin and scandal. This he would
do by visiting these impenitent transgressors with some incurable disease which would issue
in certain death. So he did in the church of Corinth. (1 Cor. xi. 30.) By this example he would
teach "all the churches, that it is he who searcheth the reins and hearts,"--demonstrating
his divine omniscience.--"But unto you I say." Where now is to be discovered, in this address
of the Saviour, that "presiding minister," or diocesan bishop, whom the anti-christian prelates
affirm our Lord addresses in all these epistles? "And unto the rest in Thyatira,"--still no
prelate addressed; but those laborious and patient ones previously commended, who "had not
known the depths of Satan." Those deceivers pretended to instruct their deluded followers in
the "deep things of God;" but Christ calls them "depths of Satan." It is usual with the devil's
factors to delude credulous persons with pretending to teach them deep mysteries,--"curious
arts. (Acts xix. 18, 19.)

To such as withstood the adversary and his allies, Christ would give no additional injunctions
to those which they had received. And to animate them to continued fidelity and fortitude in
future conflicts with these enemies of all righteousness, he holds forth an ample reward. He
shall share in the honor of his Master, conferred on him by his Father. Whatever may be comprehended
in this promise, it can be made good to the victorious Christian only by Him who is divine.
None else has "power over the nations," but he to whom "all power is given in heaven and in
earth." (Matt, xxviii. 18.) "The morning star" may signify Christ himself, (ch. xxii, 16,)
or the "first fruits of the Spirit," (Rom. viii. 23,) or the full assurance of grace. (2 Peter
i. 19.)

As before, what "Christ saith, the Spirit saith;" and the instruction, warning and threatening
sent to the church in Thyatira, was addressed to all churches and to every human being endowed
with an "ear to hear." It is assumed in the beginning of the Apocalypse, that only some will
have sufficient education to "read the words of the prophecy of this book;" and such is the
condescension of our gracious Master, that those who, by reason of invincible ignorance, cannot
read, yet may share in the reward promised to such as "hear and keep" the sayings of this book.
And no doubt thousands have received this reward since the begun decline of Popery, who were
privileged to hear and to "know the joyful sound" of the gospel proclaimed by the heralds of
the Reformation. In the times of Luther, Calvin, Knox, and others, who were their compeers
and successors, many were called from darkness to light, in continental and insular Europe,
who could not read.

All are commanded to "search the Scriptures." Now to be able to obey this reasonable command,
either all must be instructed in the knowledge of Hebrew and Greek,--the two languages in which
the Bible was originally written, or the Bible must be translated into the languages of all
nations. But the former supposition is impracticable, and therefore the latter is dutiful.
And after all that has been done, and is yet to be accomplished, in translating the sacred
writings into the languages of the nations of the earth, the "angels of the churches" will
be employed by the chief Shepherd in feeding his flock.

CHAPTER III.

1.

Vs. 1-6.--As hitherto in these epistles we do not discover a "presiding minister" above an
elder, so neither do we in this one find any hint of a "bishop and pastors." All Christ's bishops
are elders, and "all are brethren." (Acts xx. 17, 28.) Prelacy,--that is, preferring one pastor
before another in office, is expressly prohibited by the church's only Lawgiver. (Matt. xx.
25, 26.) The attempts to annul this law of Christ has caused more sin and suffering to his
disciples than any one external agency of the devil. The whole history of the church furnishes
the evidence of this.

The church in Sardis is addressed by him who "hath the seven spirits of God and the seven stars,"
who has authority by office to give the quickening influences of the Spirit to the dead, and
his reviving influences to the dormant; for revival presupposes life. Their "works were not
perfect before God," however they might appear to men. The majority were in a languishing condition,
had "given themselves over to a detestable neutrality" in the Lord's cause. And as the whole
body is justly characterized by the major part; this church is described as "dead." "Be watchful,--remember,--repent."
These duties point out the prevailing sins, namely, slothfulness, forgetfulness and security.
Where these predominate, "things that remain are ready to die." And there is no other remedy
but that of applying to the "Seven Spirits of God," which Christ is ready to shed abundantly
on all who make believing application.

Christ threatens to "come as a thief" upon those who do not "watch." In similitudes, we are
not to indulge a licentious fancy in our attempts to interpret them. The objects of the thief's
visit and that of Christ are not the point of resemblance; for "the thief cometh not but for
to steal, and to kill, and to destroy." The point, and the only point of resemblance, is the
suddenness of the visit. Ignorance or neglect of this rule of interpretation has been a fruitful
source of error, especially in expounding Revelation.

In this epistle, the order hitherto observed by the Saviour is reversed. What was praiseworthy
in other churches was first noticed. Here the commendation follows the reproof. "Thou hast
a few names," etc. A virtuous minority are "undefiled in the way." They have nobly withstood
the prevailing contamination, and therefore Christ will admit them to fellowship and honor.
The victor shall be "clothed in white raiment,"--grace shall be perfected in glory; and their
names, which were inscribed in the book of life,--the register of the church of the first-born,
shall be confessed by Christ "before his Father and before his angels," as having "followed
the Lamb," when others went back like Orpah. (Ruth i. 15.) Let those who, having "put their
hand to the plough," are tempted to "look back," consider "what the Spirit saith" to the church
in Sardis.

Vs. 7-13.--This church, like the one in Smyrna, is "without rebuke," in the midst of similar
trials.--Christ's message is prefaced, as usual, by some description of himself, implying his
supreme deity and authority. "He that is holy, he that is true," is more than a creature. As
"there is none good but one, that is God;" so, "there is none holy as the Lord," (Jehovah,)
(1 Sam. ii. 2.) Here is another, among many plain proofs, of our Saviour's proper divinity.
His divine authority is held forth in his "having the key of David," etc. A key is the symbol
of authority, (Matt. xvi. 19,) and the reference is to that prophecy, (Isa. xxii. 20-24,) in
which the mediatorial dominion of Christ is set forth, by calling Eliakim to the place of authority
in the room of Shebna. "The key of the house of David will I lay upon his shoulder." It is
in virtue of this extensive grant of power from the Father, that the Lord Christ has a right,
as Mediator, to send his ambassadors into all nations, to call sinners (rebels) back to their
rightful allegiance; and also to execute deserved punishment upon all who do harm to his servants.
(Ps. cv, 15.) In the exercise of his rightful authority, he has set before this church an "open
door" of liberty, of opportunity, of activity; that she may put forth her "little strength"
in keeping Christ's word and confessing his name amidst opposition, reproach and violence;
for it is obvious, that when impostors fail to reach their objects by deceit, they will resort
to forcible measures. Because this church was unable to purge herself by corrective discipline,--having
but "a little strength," therefore Christ declares his purpose to strip these lying Jews of
their cloak of hypocrisy, and exhibit them in their true character a "synagogue (church) of
Satan." (James ii. 2.) Seeing that in apostolic times there were apostles, ministers, churches
of the devil, is it to be supposed that we violate the law of charity, if in our own degenerate
age, when heresies abound, when ecclesiastical order is trampled upon, we venture to apply
the language of the Holy Spirit to unholy and profane amalgamations? No, it is part of the
special business of Christ's witnesses to unmask specious hypocrites and warn of danger from
false teachers, (2 Cor. xi. 13-15; Gal. i. 6, 7,) that "their folly may be made manifest to
all men." (2 Tim. iii. 8, 9; 2 Peter ii. 1, 3.)--The cruel enemy, who in the day of prosperity
boasts of his success, in the day of adversity becomes the most arrant coward and cringing
suppliant,--whether it be Saul or Shimei. (1 Sam. xv. 30; 2 Sam. xix. 18.) Haughty persecutors
have been changed to humble suitors for an interest in the prayers of their victims,--"to worship
before their feet." "The word of Christ's patience" may signify any truth or doctrine of the
Bible which is of supernatural revelation. The same idea is suggested by the phrase, "the present
truth,"--any divine truth which may come to be opposed or denied, especially as it may bear
upon the personal glory of our Redeemer. Love to Christ is often tested by an enlightened and
firm adherence to the "truth as it is in Jesus," when "false apostles will sell it for a mess
of pottage." (Prov. xxiii. 23; 2 Cor. xiii. 8.) The first promise here is of a temporal kind,
of protection in time of general danger. The "temptation" thus predicted may refer to some
of those "ten persecutions" waged by the Roman emperors against the Christians, as that of
Trajan in particular; but doubtless, like many other predictions, it was to have more than
one fulfilment. The expression, "all the world" does indeed sometimes mean the Roman empire,
(Luke ii. 1;) but perhaps it would be rash to affirm, that it is to be always thus limited.
Like "the kingdom of heaven,--the kingdom of God,"--phrases which have unquestionably a two-fold
signification, so it will be safer to consider this expression as of a similar kind. All other
churches would be exposed to trial, from which this one would be exempted. The trial might
consist of persecution, or the spreading of heretical principles and wicked practices, followed
by apostacies. At such a time of trial, a firm adherence to the "doctrines which are after
godliness," would be imperative duty, and the only way to secure the victor's crown. The gracious
reward of fidelity here promised is a permanent and honorable place in the heavenly temple,--the
temple of Christ's Father, whose name the citizen of the New Jerusalem should bear for ever,
and should be known and recognised as "fellow-citizen with the saints." These names may be
safely interpreted as importing, "son, daughter of the Lord Almighty, citizen of Zion, Christian."
As "the disciples were first called Christians at Antioch," so their gracious Master will "confess
their names before his Father and the holy angels." (Acts xi. 26; Rev. iii.

Vs. 14-22.--It appears that in Paul's time a Christian church had been planted in Laodicea.
(Col. ii. 1; iv. 16.) This church had the benefit of his ministry as well as that of Ephesus:
and as both these churches were comparatively near to all the other five, we may suppose that
a man of his zealous, active and persevering character and habits, would "impart unto them
some spiritual gift." (Rom. i. 11.)

It is evident that this church had degenerated more than all the others. In her there is nothing
to commend. Her officers and members are described in their real character by him who is the
"Amen, the faithful and true Witness, the beginning of the creation of God." Each of these
titles speaks the divine dignity of Christ. They are all to be understood in an absolute, not
in a comparative sense. As "there is none good (absolutely so,) but one; that is, God," Matt.
xix. 17; so Christ only is the "Amen" in such sense that he "cannot lie" as a "witness.'" He
"speaks that which he has seen with his Father." (John viii. 38.) Jesus is, moreover, the "Beginning;"
the author, owner and sovereign ruler of "the creation of God." This is clearly taught in Col.
i. 15-18, where the same person, who (in v. 18) is called "the beginning," as here; is (in
v. 17,) said to "be before all things;" by whom (v. 16,) "were all things created, that are
in heaven, and that are in earth."--Creation is a work proper to God only. But our Redeemer
has "created all things." Now, according to Heb. iii. 4, "he that built all things is God;"
therefore he of whom these things are spoken is "the Most High God." And so said the inspired
prophet long ago, "For thy Maker is thine husband." (Isa. liv.

Spiritual pride, self-sufficiency, seems to have been the prevailing sin among these degenerate
professors. Like the Pharisee, they would boast of their riches, the spiritual gifts which
they possessed, by which they flattered themselves that "they were not as other men." Possibly
they might excel in knowledge, that "knowledge which puffeth up;" in utterance,--"great swelling
words of vanity," by which they gained both "filthy lucre" and the admiration of an ignorant
and carnal multitude. Such is too often the actual condition of ministers and people, when
they are all the while under the power of sin, and wholly "blind" to their spiritual destitution.
Self-deception is fatal; and it would be just in the Lord Jesus to give such persons up to
their own hearts' lusts. So he threatens,--"I will spue thee out of my mouth," as a man's stomach
loathes that which is nauseating. The like figure is used by Isaiah, (lxv. 5,) personating
his Lord when describing similar characters:--"These are a smoke in my nose,"--intolerably
offensive.--To us the case of this church would appear hopeless. It is not so, however: on
the contrary, he assures them that these sharp rebukes proceed from love. "As many as I love,
I rebuke, and chasten." (Heb. xii. 6-8.) And from the "counsel" which he gives, as farther
evidence of his love, we learn wherein this church was lacking,--in grace, justifying righteousness,
and the saving self searching illumination of the Holy Spirit. As this church had not the promise
of exemption from the coming "temptation," (v. 10,) the "gold tried in the fire" of persecution
will be indispensable to preserve any from apostacy, whereby their cloak of hypocrisy would
be removed, and they be exposed to "shame."--Christ "stands and knocks."--If the church refuses
him admittance, yet if but one will "hear his voice and open the door," he will certainly communicate
such consolations,--the "joy of his salvation," that it may be said they sup together. (Song v. 1.)

This, as before, is the "hundred-fold," promised in this life, as a foretaste and pledge of
heavenly felicity.--There is added, a participation in his honor and authority; for those who
suffer with him shall also reign with him. (2 Tim. ii. 12.) Whilst "this honour is to all his
saints," it is to be conferred upon them by Christ. This assertion may seem to contradict what
Christ said to the mother of Zebedee's sons, (Matt. xx. 23,)--"to sit on my right hand, and
on my left, is not mine to give."--No, it is not his to give,--"but, except to them for whom
it is prepared of his Father." Then it is his to give,--his right. Of the honor and felicity
promised to such as "fight the good fight of faith," none can have an adequate conception without
actual experience. (1 John iii. 2.)

GENERAL OBSERVATIONS.

Although the fundamental doctrine of the Trinity in Unity be not expressly taught or asserted
in these epistles, it is nevertheless often and plainly presupposed. Each epistle begins and
closes with express mention of two divine persons as equally the author. What Christ says,
the Spirit says to these churches. But there is a third divine person often mentioned who is
called "God," and "Father." (Ch. ii. 7, 18, 27, etc.;) and in the first verse of chapter third,
one speaks who has the seven Spirits of God," where the Trinity is included. Thus, while in
these epistles this important doctrine of the adorable Trinity,--a doctrine which lies at the
very foundation of a sinner's hope, is obscurely revealed, as being clearly discovered in the
preceding parts of the Holy Scriptures; the subsequent part of this book of Revelation is intended,
among other objects, to demonstrate the distinct subsistence and economical actings of the
co-equal and eternal Three, in the protection and salvation of the church, and in the control
and moral government of the universe.

Again, on the groundless and chimerical assumption of those expositors who view these epistles
as prophetical of seven successive periods of the destiny of the church general, the last estate
would be worse than the first,--Laodicea being the worst of all. But this is obviously contrary
to the description contained in ch. xx. 1-10, where the saints are represented as in possession
and exercise of all their purchased and social rights. Neither does authentic history prove
that the church of Christ was more prosperous under the "ten persecutions" by the heathen Roman
emperors than in the apostolic age, as the superior condition of the church in Smyrna to that
of Ephesus would require. The very contrary is true; and hence the groundlessness of such interpretation,
however respectable the names of its authors. The object of our Saviour in all the instructions,
counsels, warnings, rebukes and threatenings addressed to these several churches is doubtless
the real benefit of his people in after generations;--just as his dealings with the church
in Old Testament times, "were written for our admonition and learning." (Rom. xv. 4; 1 Cor.
x. 11.) Moreover, some persons have inferred from our Lord's treatment of these churches, a
divine warrant for the existence, and an imperative Christian duty for the charitable recognition,
of all the conflicting and antagonistic organizations of our time, popularly styled Christian
churches. But as the designation, "Christian churches," is in the apprehension of some too
general, the term "evangelical" is used by them as restrictive of the term "Christian." Still
the question will present itself,--What constitutes a church "evangelical?" And this question
is still without any definite answer. Perhaps no two persons would include in one category
the same denominations of professing Christians. For example,--Is a community to be considered
a Christian church in which the "doctrine of Balaam" is taught? Does the law of charity require
the recognition of an organization as a Christian church, in which a "Jezebel would be suffered
to teach, and to seduce the servants of Christ?" Is that a Christian church which denies the
supreme deity of Christ, and rejects the seals of the covenant of grace,--the only charter
of the Christian church's existence, on earth? Or is that combination to be viewed as a Christian
church which has no regular ministry, but expressly rejects the "pastors and teachers" of Christ's
appointment and the morality of the sabbath? These, and many other questions of similar or
analogous import, will suggest negative answers to all who fear God, respect his authority,
and are free from the bewildering effects of popular error.

It ought to be considered that all these seven churches were one church, as originally constituted,
having the same,--that, is, a divine, scriptural organization. And although in the divine forbearance,
they were still owned by Christ, notwithstanding the errors, heresies and immoralities which
had crept into them; yet it is manifest that he threatens some of them with divorce, total
extinction in case of impenitence. He has indeed fulfilled his awful threats in making them
a desolation. Is it reasonable to suppose that he would reorganize these, or recognise others
which incorporate the same or the like corruptions in doctrine and practice for tolerating
which he has "removed their candlestick," or "spued them out of his mouth?" (Absit blasphemia.)
To say so, or write so, does not manifest the "charity which rejoiceth not in iniquity, but
rejoiceth in the truth." Alas! the present condition of the church general contains frequent
evidences, that our Saviour's affectionate counsels, solemn warnings, and awful threatenings,
are neither duly pondered nor dutifully regarded.

CHAPTER IV.

With this chapter the prophetical part of the Apocalypse begins. This is the place where the
third division of the book commences, of which intimation had been given to John.--"Write ...
the things which shall be hereafter." (Ch. i. 19.) The third is therefore much the largest
part of the whole book, comprising all from the 4th to the 22d ch. It is also to be noticed
that the fourth and fifth chapters are properly of the nature of an introduction to what follows,
presenting to view, as it were, a grand theatre on which are to be exhibited the dramatic characters
and events which constitute the outline of history in the church and the world from the apostle's
time till the consummation of all things.

Expositors commonly frame and lay down some rules by which they suppose symbolic language in
general, and the symbols of this book in particular, may be interpreted. On examination, however,
it will be discovered that the learned are not agreed either in the nature or number of such
rules, and sometimes an expositor who has exerted his ingenuity most in devising canons of
interpretation, forgets to apply them.

All languages, whether spoken or written, are more or less metaphorical, interspersed with
what are called figures of speech. It is customary to represent nations and tribes, whose language
abounds in symbols, as but little advanced in civilization; and to view oriental nations as
more disposed to indulge in tropes and figures than those of the west; but perhaps this relative
estimate of the modes of speech in the eastern and western hemispheres will admit of some modification,
when we consider the gesticulations and similes by which the aborigines of America attempt
to give expression to their ideas. The word hieroglyphics, signifying sacred sculpture, derived
from the ancient mode of writing by the priests of Egypt, has received conventional currency
among the learned, as descriptive of any writing which is obscure, "hard to be understood."
And all who read this book will find some of it "dark" indeed. The divine Author intended that
it should be so, (ch. xiii. 18;) yet he calls it emphatically, a "Revelation."

We have already noticed, that the symbols in this book are taken from the ceremonial law in
part, and part are taken from the works of creation. The heavens and the earth present to our
senses a variety of material objects; some more, some less calculated to arrest our attention.
Among these, the sun, moon and stars,--earth and sea, mountains and rivers, occupy prominent
places. To facilitate our knowledge of these, and prompt reference to any part of them, we
generalize or throw them into groups. Thus we speak familiarly of the "solar system," the "animal,
vegetable or mineral kingdom." Now, just transfer these systematized objects from the material
and physical, to the moral and spiritual world. Then consider what relation any one object
bears to the system, and what influence it has upon the other objects of which it is a part,
and its import may be generally, satisfactorily and certainly ascertained. Thus the same canons
or rules which we apply in the interpretation of other writings, will be equally available
in "searching the Scriptures,"--never, never forgetting that it is the Spirit of Christ that
"guides into all truth," or his own all-comprehensive rule of interpretation, "comparing spiritual
things with spiritual." (1 Cor. ii. 13.)

In order to the right observance of the divinely prescribed rule, "comparing spiritual things
with spiritual," we must often refer to the prophecies of the Old Testament,--to the second
and seventh chapters of Daniel in particular, because that prophet, while the church was captive
under the power of literal Babylon, was favoured with a discovery of the purpose of God, that
a succession of imperial powers should afterwards arise to "try the patience and the faith
of the saints." As in the case of Pharaoh, so in the whole history of the rise, reign and overthrow
of succeeding persecuting powers, Jehovah's design was precisely the same,--"to make his power
known, and that his name might be declared throughout all the earth." (Ex. ix. 16; Rom. ix.
17.) In connexion with this, he would "glorify the riches of his grace on the vessels of mercy,
which he had afore prepared unto glory," by sustaining them in the furnace of trial.

1. Come up hither, and I will show thee things which must be hereafter.

Verses 1-3.--"After these things," contained in the three preceding chapters, the glorious
vision of the mediatorial person, and the writing and sending of the seven epistles; there
seems to have intervened a pause. While John was in expectation of farther discoveries of "things
which were to be thereafter," "behold, a door was opened in heaven," the place of Jehovah's
special residence. But as this "heaven" is sometimes the theatre of war, (ch. xii. 7,) of course
it is not to be taken literally. As a symbol it generally signifies organized society, over
which the Most High presides. The "door opened" afforded the means to John of seeing the objects
within. The "voice as of a trumpet," which arrested his attention, was that of Christ,--the
"voice of the Lord, full of majesty." (Ps. xxix. 4; ch. i. 10, 11.) John was in his own apprehension,
like Paul, "caught up into the third heaven," that he might behold in glorious succession "things
which must be hereafter." Why must they be? Simply because such was the "purpose of Him who
worketh all things after the counsel of his own will; who is wonderful in counsel and excellent
in working; whose counsel stands, and who doeth all his pleasure." (Eph. i. 11.) Can a rational
creature work without a plan? And shall mortal man be more rational than his Maker? The objects
which were presented to John are not to be understood as material objects. It was requisite
that he should be "in the Spirit," before he could see them. The exercise of his bodily senses,
the organs of sensation, must be suspended, that he might have a perception of the objects
presented in vision. As the "spirits of just men made perfect" in glory, in a disembodied state,
are still conscious and active; so are we warranted to conceive of souls yet in the body as
being in a state analagous,--falling into a trance. (Acts x. 10.) The first object seen by
John was a "throne set in heaven," the emblem of sovereignty. "One sat on the throne," who
cannot be described, only in an obscure manner by comparison, being "the invisible God, whom
no eye hath seen, nor can see." Yet we know with certainty it is the person of the Father,
because he is in the next chapter plainly distinguished from "the Lamb." Seated on the throne,--and
"in the throne he is greater than the Mediator." A relation between these divine persons was
shadowed forth in Egypt between Pharaoh and Joseph. (Gen. xli. 40.) Occupying the throne of
the universe, the Father sustains the majesty of the Godhead, and represents the persons of
the adorable Trinity; for the idea is equally unscriptural and absurd, that either person appears
or acts (ad extra) in absolute or essential character. (Is. xlii. 1; John x. 18; xiv. 31.)
He that "sat, was ... like a jasper and a sardine stone,"--not like any human form, but in
allusion, perhaps, to the Shekinah or visible glory above the mercy-seat in the most holy place,
he appeared in the essential purity or holiness of his nature and awful justice,--one "who
will by no means clear the guilty." The rainbow is the familiar emblem or "token of the covenant."
Its being "round about the throne" teaches us, that God "in wrath remembers mercy." As "green"
is the color most pleasing to the natural eye, so is the rainbow of covenant mercy most grateful
to the penitent sinner, contemplated by the eye of faith. God is "ever mindful of his covenant."
(Ps. cxi. 5.)

Ever since the revelation of mercy to fallen man, God deals with mankind, not in essential
or absolute character, but by covenant in economical standing. All along since that epoch in
the history of this world, "the Father judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment unto
the Son." As yet, however, the Son is not brought upon the stage in the apostle's present view.
The Son has his appropriate place in the vision, where he will appear as Mediator. In the conflict
to be carried on for twelve hundred and sixty years by the combined powers of earth and hell
"against the Lord and his Anointed," we have the agencies exhibited in these two chapters only
on heaven's side. The opposing hosts will afterwards appear.

Verses 4, 5.--To John's view, the "throne" seen from one side would appear to be surrounded
by a segment of a circle, within which were "four and twenty seats," (thrones,) occupied by
an equal number of "elders." In society divinely organized "elders" have always been the legal
representatives of God's covenant society in civil and ecclesiastical relations. (Exod. iii.
16; Acts xx. 17.) These "four and twenty elders" represent the collective body of God's people
under the Old and New Testaments,--the "twelve tribes of Israel" and the "twelve apostles."
(ch. vii. 4; xxi. 12-14.) Their "white raiment" and "crowns of gold" indicate their legal state
and moral purity,--their justification and sanctification, as also their promotion to honour,
to "reign as kings." (ch, i. 6; v. 10.) ["reign on the earth," ch, xx. 4.] Allusion is had
to the terrific scene at Sinai by the "lightnings," etc., when "Moses did exceedingly fear
and quake," importing that God, "our God, is a consuming fire" to all his impenitent, especially
antichristian, enemies, even under the milder economy of the New Testament. (Heb. x. 28-31;
ch. xx. 10.) The "seven lamps of fire" are explained to mean "the seven spirits of God," in
allusion to the golden candlestick in the temple, (Exod. xxxvii. 23; Zech. iv. 2,) and signifying
the gifts and graces of those who are "baptized with the Holy Ghost and "with fire."

6. And before the throne there was a sea of glass like unto crystal; and in the midst of the
throne, and round about the throne, were four beasts full of eyes before and behind.

Vs. 6-11.--The "sea of glass before the throne" is a symbol taken from the "brazen sea" in
the temple, in which priests and victims were to be washed. (Exod. xxx. 18; 1 Kings vii. 23.)
This sea represents the same thing as the "fountain opened," (Zech. xiii. 1,) which denotes
the atoning and cleansing blood of Christ. (Ch. vii. 14.) All who offer "spiritual sacrifices,
acceptable to God," must first be washed; for the "Lord had respect to Abel" first, and then
to his "offering," (Gen. iv. 4.)--Next, John saw "four beasts." The translation here is faulty,
as noticed by many expositors. Different words in the original Greek,--not only different,
but in some respects opposite in signification, ought not to be rendered by the same English
word; for this tends to mislead the unlearned leader. He is thus bewildered instead of being
enlightened. There are several beasts besides these, introduced as instructive symbols in this
book. Two are mentioned in ch. xiii. 1, 11, altogether different from these,--so different
as to be antagonistic. Instead of "beasts," they should have been called "animals" or "living
beings;" for even the phrase "living creatures" hardly covers or conveys the whole import of
the Greek word. The position of these "four animals" is worthy of special notice:--"in the
midst of the throne, and round about the throne." How can this be? Well, if the "seats" and
the "elders" occupying them are "round about the throne," in a segment of a circle, as viewed
by John, then it will be readily perceived that the "animals" seen from the same quarter would
appear to him as occupying a space forming a smaller segment of a circle between the elders
and the throne. Thus we have the relative positions, (a) the throne, (b) the "four animals"
next to the throne, and lastly, (c) the "four and twenty elders." The places occupied by these
several parties are pregnant with scriptural instruction, as may appear when we come to the
latter part of ch. 6.

In the mean time, what do these "four animals" represent? Not the adorable Trinity, as some
learned men have imagined; nor holy angels, as more learned men have supposed and laboured
to prove. These "animals" are worshippers; (v. 8,) therefore they are not the Object of worship.
They are culpably blind who mistake the creature for the Creator. (Rom. i. 25.) Other expositors
have attempted, with greater plausibility, but no better success, to prove these animals to
be symbolical of angels. For this purpose, reference has been made to Isaiah's vision of the
seraphims, (ch. vi. 2,) and also to the "four living creatures" which appeared in vision to
Ezekiel, (i. 5-10.) The identity of John's "animals" and Ezekiel's "living creatures" is argued
especially from their number, "four," and their "faces" being the same. To the thoughtful and
unbiased reader it is sufficient to reply,--that John's "animals" acknowledge themselves to
have been redeemed by the blood of the Lamb, (ch. v. 8, 9,) an expression which is inapplicable
to angels. As the "four and twenty elders" and the "four animals" comprise the whole company
of the redeemed, as distinguished from the higher and lower orders of God's worshippers, (ch.
v. 8-14,) and as the "elders" represent the whole church, it would seem to be reasonable to
suppose, that these "animals" are the symbols of the gospel ministry. And to this agree their
functions as exercised in the farther developments of this book, as we shall see.

One plausible objection to this interpretation is grounded on the fact that their "faces" are
the same as those of Ezekiel's angels,--"of an ox, or young calf, of a lion, of a man, and
of an eagle." But each of the "cherubims" had "four faces" whereas these "animals" have but
one face each. Nor ought it to be thought incongruous that faithful ministers are represented
as possessing some of the properties of holy angels, when we find them called by the same name:
(ch. i. 20;) and also, when we find the Master directing them to imitate and emulate holy angels
in their services. (Matt. vi. 10; Ps. ciii. 20, 21.) These "animals," emblematical of the gospel
ministry, are in number "four," answerable to the universality of their mission into the four
quarters of the earth,--"all the world." (Matt, xxviii. 19; Mark, xvi. 15.) So the "four winds,"
(ch. vii. 1,) mean all winds. As the "lion, which is the strongest among beasts, and turneth
not away for any," is distinguished for courage and magnanimity; so, as a symbol, it represents
a ministry of courageous and heroic spirit. Luther in continental, and Knox in insular Europe,
may be named as displaying this prominent feature of ministerial character. The "calf" or young
ox, symbolizes "patient continuance in well-doing" amidst trials, such as "cruel mockings,"
etc. The "face as a man" indicates sagacity, "Christian prudence," together with active sympathy.
The "flying eagle" is emblematical of penetration and discrimination,--ability to teach others,"
from a spiritual insight into the divine character and purposes,--an experimental acquaintance
with "the God of glory." All these properties are not to be supposed ordinarily in any one
minister, but as distributed among the ministry at large,--"according to the measure of the
gift of Christ,"--the Holy Spirit "dividing to every man severally as he will." (Eph. iv. 7;
1 Cor. xii. 11.) It may be remarked, that in some cases all these properties may be discerned
in great measure in the same individual. In the gifts and grace of the apostle Paul, may be
discovered the boldness of the lion, the patience of the ox, the compassion of the man, and
the soaring flight of the eagle. Our covenant God endows his servants for the service to which
he calls them, always making good the promise,--"As thy days, so shall thy strength be." The
"six wings," of course, are expressive of the activity of the ministry,--"in season, out of
season," emulating the heavenly seraphims in serving the same Lord. They were "full of eyes
before, behind, within." They are to "take heed to themselves, and to the ministry which they
have received in the Lord, that they fulfil it." (Col. iv. 17; 1 Tim. iv. 16.) They are to
regard the operation of God's hand in providence, so as to "have understanding of the times,
and know what Israel ought to do." (1 Chron. xii. 32.) They are to "try the spirits whether
they are of God;" and "after the first and second admonition, to reject heretics." (Tit. iii.
10.) They are to "oversee the flock," (Acts xx. 28;) and to "watch for souls, as they that
must give account" to the Master. (Heb. xiii. 17.) And we may say with Paul,--"Who is sufficient
for these things?" Modern prelates, who arrogate to themselves the exclusive use of the Scriptural
official name "BISHOP," generally manifest that they are only bishops, (two-eyed) and not the
many-eyed servants of Christ, symbolized by the "four animals" of our text, or the "overseeing
elders" charged at Miletus by the apostle Paul. (Acts xx. 17.) "While these men slept, the
enemy sowed tares."--In direct acts of worship, these "animals,"--the ministers, take the lead,
answerable to another official name,--"guides, in things pertaining to God." (Heb. xiii. 7;
[Greek] v. 1.) They are, as well expressed by another phrase, the "sworn expounders of God's
word," and authoritative rulers in his house. Destitute of legislative power, which in ecclesiastical
affairs pertains to Christ alone; they are the authorized administrators of all the laws by
which his household is to be governed. (Heb. xiii. 7, 17.)--The language of adoration here
is the same uttered by the seraphim. (Isa. vi. 3) The "holiness" of God is that adorable character
which is most attractive to holy angels and redeemed sinners, being the principal feature of
the divine image reflected by themselves. (Matt. xxv. 31; Jude 14; 1 John iii. 2.) The glorious
Being seen by John, as sitting on a throne, is the same who was seen by Isaiah, (vi. 1;) and
precisely in the same attitude; but called by different names. By Isaiah he is denominated
"the Lord of Hosts,"--by John, "the Lord God Almighty." The context proves,--especially ch.
v. 1; that John in vision contemplated God in the person of the Father; whereas we are assured,
in John xii. 41, that Isaiah saw him in the person of the Son. Thus we may understand our Lord's
words addressed to Philip, (John xiv. 9.) "He that hath seen me hath seen the father." (See
Heb. i. 8; Col. i. 15.)

Led by the "four animals,"--the ministry of reconciliation; the "four and twenty elders," representing
all the redeemed of mankind, "fall down before him that sat on the throne" in prostrate adoration
of that glorious Being whose "eternal power and Godhead" are demonstrated in the volume of
creation. We are thus taught that motives to acceptable worship of God are primarily to be
found in the perfections of his nature as our beneficent Creator,--perfections possessed by
him in essential character, independently of all his works of creation and redemption. His
"worthiness" of worship is inherent in himself, but outwardly manifested to intelligent creatures
by the work of creation, of which he is the first Cause and the last End,--the efficient and
final Cause. This doctrine, understood by the intellect and unbraced in the heart, would greatly
tend to "hide pride from man." (Job xxxiii. 17.) Aside from the doctrine of the "cross," which
is still counted "foolishness" by our modern self-styled "philosophers, psychologists and freethinkers;"
there is enough here revealed of this eternal One to humble the "proud looks and haughty hearts"
of these "enemies of the King." Without repentance, "he that made them will not have mercy
on them; and he that formed them will show them no favour;" for notwithstanding their pride
of superior intellect, he whose judgment is according to truth, has pronounced them a "people
of no understanding." (Isa. xxvii. "and let the whole earth be filled with his glory." (Ps.
lxxii. 19.)

CHAPTER VI.

1.

Verse 1.--The dividing of the books of Scripture into chapters and verses is not by inspiration.
Fallible men have used their discretion in this respect, as they still do, by parceling chapters
into sections, paragraphs, &c. And so, although we have passed to another chapter, the vision
is the same. The inspired penman had looked upon the great King surrounded by part of his retinue.
In earnest expectation of farther discoveries, he beheld "in the right hand of him that sat
on the throne a book written within and on the back side," (or outside, as in some copies.)
The book was "sealed with seven seals." This volume was in the form of a roll, as the word
volume signifies. The form of a book is determined by the kind of material on which one writes.
This has consisted of great variety in the successive ages of the world. The first of which
we have any notice in history is stone. When Job, in his affliction, was sustained by faith
in the promised Redeemer; and when he would emphasize and transmit an expression of that faith
to future generations; he thought of the nearest expedient familiar to his mind:--"Oh that
my words were now written.... that they were graven with an iron pen.... in the rock forever,"
(Job xix. 23, 24.) On the same material the law was written at Horeb, (Exod. xxiv. 12.) No
doubt this was the usual method of recording events in Egypt in the time of Joseph, as the
word "hieroglyphics" or sacred sculpture, appears to imply. Next, it appears that the inside
bark of trees was used for this purpose, as of birch, which has a natural tendency to curl
or roll together when dry. Hence the word library, and volume, or rolled bark. The royal archives,
or "house of the rolls," is thus explained, (Ezra. vi. 1.) "Vellum," or dressed skins of beasts,
appears to have been next used; then linen and cotton; and as now put through a chemical process,
these are the material in most common use at the present day. Thus contemplating the symbol
in the text, we may trace in our thoughts the gradual advancement of this department of science
and the mechanic arts. The second stage of progress had been reached in John's time, from stone
to the bark of timber. The "book" appears to have been of cylindrical form, but whether in
one piece or in seven separate pieces, revolving on a common axis, it is not easy nor perhaps
important to determine. It is of much greater importance to know that the "book" is emblematical
of the decrees of God. This will appear by comparing Psalm xl. 7, where we find the same symbol
employed to represent the record of covenant agreement or stipulation between the Father and
the Son, and to which our Saviour appeals as evidence in his case. (Heb. x. 7.) While the symbol
may be safely considered as involving all the purposes of God; it signifies here more especially
the following part of the Apocalypse, containing, as it were, a transcript from the great original.--"Seals"
are for security and secrecy. Both may be included in the case. And indeed their being "seven"
in number--a number of perfection, would seem to confirm this two-fold meaning. The sealed
book, symbolical of the decrees of God, comprehending all events of all time, teaches us the
doctrine expressed in plain words thus:--"Known unto God are all his works from the beginning
of the world," (Acts xv. 18.) The complex symbol also teaches more forcibly than in words,--"My
counsel shall stand, and I will do all my pleasure," (Is, xlvi. 10.) Some have suggested a
little change in the punctuation. Instead of placing the comma, after the word "side," place
it after the word "within," the meaning would then be, that the "book was written only on one
side, namely on the side within." We do not accept the suggestion. The reason is sufficient
for its rejection, that the material in the time of the apostle, was too costly to leave one-half
of it blank; and here our divine Lord "speaks to us of heavenly things" through the medium
of earthly things with which we are familiar.

Vs. 2-3.--Proclamation is made by a "strong angel," the Almighty Monarch's herald to the universe,
challenging all creatures to the task of opening the seals. His "loud voice" reverberates throughout
illimitable space, that all concerned might hear. The challenge is not, "who is able?" but,
"who is worthy?"--Who is "worthy," by personal dignity, or distinguished and meritorious services,
"to open the book and to loose the seals thereof?" No response comes from any quarter to break
the solemn silence. The whole creation is mute. "Who hath known the mind of the Lord? or who
hath been his counsellor?" (Rom. xi. 33, 34.)--"And no man in heaven," &c. The word "man" is
in this place, as in many others, an imperfect and inadequate supplement. In some places it
is calculated to mislead the "unlearned and unstable," as John x. 28, 29, (in some copies,)
Heb. ii. 9. The former text, as supplemented by the word "man," contradicts the apostle, Rom.
viii. 39. The meaning here is obviously that no creature,--angel or man, was worthy or "able"
to "open the book." To holy angels, devils, and the dead "under the earth," the purposes of
God are as inscrutable as they are to us, until they are revealed. (Eph. iii.

V. 4.--John understood by the symbol which he saw, that its contents were of deep significance.
A sanctified curiosity and anxiety, more powerful than that of the Ethiopian eunuch, (Acts
viii. 34,) occupied his soul. But the book is sealed and there is no visible interpreter! (Is.
xxix. 11.) The "beloved disciple" is much affected. He has more than once or twice "beheld
the glory of God," and cannot but earnestly desire to know more of his mind. "Hope deferred
maketh his heart sick." He "wept much." His covenant God "has seen his tears." He "will heal
him," (2 Kings xx.

V. 5.--From a quite unexpected quarter comes a hint! How could John anticipate relief from
such a source? "One of the elders" is made the messenger of joyful tidings. As Aquila and Priscilla
took to them the eloquent Apollos, and "expounded unto him the way of God more perfectly,"
(Acts xviii. 26,) so one of the elders--one of the humble disciples was the instrument of comfortable
instruction to the aged apostle! The prophet Daniel was similarly affected by a partial exhibition
of the same important events; but his anxiety to know the meaning of the vision, though allayed,
was not fully gratified, as that of John. (Dan. xii. 8, 9,) "Go thy way, Daniel, for the words
are closed up and sealed." The desire of the best of God's people to know his purposes may
be sometimes excessive, as exemplified by the disciples of Christ, (Acts i. 7.) "It is not
for them to know the times and the seasons which the Father hath put in his own power." So
much, however, is revealed as may be necessary to their present support and comfort; and the
rest they "shall know hereafter," (John xiii. 7.) But as the events involved in the secret
purpose of God, were concealed from Daniel; because not to be evolved till near "the time of
the end:" so in John's time, when as in Abraham's case, "the time of the promise drew nigh"--the
time was approaching when the interests of God's people would be greatly affected by these
events; it became needful that the book should be unsealed and its contents made known. "The
time was at hand." Here our attention is called away back to the famous prophecy of dying Jacob,
(Gen. xlix. 9, 10,) and also to the subsequent and concurrent declaration of the evangelical
prophet, (Isa. xi. 1, 10.) Christ is the "Lion of the tribe of Judah" in reference to his human
nature; "for it is evident," from the inspired tables of his genealogy, "that our Lord sprang
out of Judah," (Heb. vii. 14;) and it is no less evident that he is the Root of David, in respect
to his divine nature, (John i. 1, 3; Isa. ix. 6; 1 Cor. xv. 47.) The "one Mediator between
God and men," partaking of the nature of each party, is "worthy"--alone worthy, by reason of
personal dignity, to "open the book." It is also to be noticed that worthiness is not his only
qualification. In view of the challenge published,--"who is worthy?" the answer is, this champion
"hath prevailed!"--Isaiah saw him in vision, victorious over enemies--"travelling in the greatness
of his strength," (Isa. lxiii. 1.) To his personal worthiness is to be added the unrivalled
merit of his achievements in conflict with hostile powers, (Gen. iii. 15; Isa. liii. 12; Col.
ii. 15.)

6.

V. 6.--In this verse we have the Lord Jesus Christ introduced to the view of John and the intelligent
universe in his sacerdotal or priestly office, "a lamb, as it had been slain." In the order
of nature and of merit, his priestly office precedes his prophetical and kingly offices. This
is evident from the position which he occupies in relation to the throne and royal retinue.
He stands in the attitude of a priest "in the midst of the throne and of the four animals,"
etc. As seen here, our Saviour does not sit on the throne. He appeared in a standing posture.
His position was obviously before the throne. As the priestly function required, he stood nearest
to the object of worship, between the ministers and the throne,--in the inmost circle. There
he exhibited the scars received in war; the wounds made by the sword of divine justice; (Zech.
xiii. 7;) the holes in his hands and side by the nails and soldier's spear. (John xix. 34;
xx. 23.) This "Lamb slain,"--typified by all the spotless lambs offered in sacrifice by divine
appointment from the time of Abel, had been marvellously restored to life, as no other victim
had ever been. (John x. 18; ch. i. 18.) The "seven horns and seven eyes," symbolize the power
and wisdom of the Mediator. "It pleased the Father that in him should all fulness dwell." (Col.
i. 19.) He "giveth not the Spirit by measure unto him." (John iii. 34; Heb. i. 9.) Christ was
privy to all the purposes of his Father, (John v. 20,) and the extent of his knowledge is limited
in him as Mediator, only by the authority and will of the Father. "Of that day and that hour
... knoweth no man ... neither the Son." (Mark xiii. 32.) The same interesting and important
truth is taught by the Father's holding the book in his hand, as also in plain words, (ch.
i. 1,)--"the Revelation of Jesus Christ which God gave unto him." "No man knoweth the Father
but the Son." (Matt. xi. 27.) In office-capacity the Lord Christ is qualified to unfold and
execute the decree of God. (Ps. ii. 7,) as more fully appears in the following part of the book.

7. And he came and took the book out of the right hand of him that sat upon the throne.

V. 7.--The Lord Jesus approaches his Father's throne to receive the roll. And with the prophet
we may ask,--"Who is this that engaged his heart to approach?" (Jer. xxx. 21.)--With all who
are honored to surround the throne, we may joyfully answer in the words of the Psalmist,--It
is the "Lord, strong and mighty in battle." (Ps. xxiv. 8.) "He took the book."--This action
symbolically signified the authoritative commission given by the Father and received by the
Mediator to proceed in the execution of the divine decree, and in discharge of his threefold
office as prophet, priest and king,--especially and more formally his prophetical and kingly
offices.

V. 8.--No sooner does the "Lamb take the book," than all spectators are apprized of the act,
and instantly give expression to their confidence and joy. Among all the worshippers before
the throne, the "four animals" take precedence, and lead by their own example as before, (ch.
iv. 9.) They gave "glory" etc., to God creator, as in the person of the Father; and now in
the presence of the Father's manifested glory, they prostrate themselves before the "Lamb,"
in obedience to the Father's command, "That all men should honor the Son, even as they honor
the Father." (John v. 23.)--The "four and twenty elders,"--the representatives of all the children
of God, cordially join the ministry in these acts of solemn worship. Some of the furniture
employed in the temple worship, is here introduced, to harmonize with the rest of the symbolic
scenery. "Harps and golden vials" signify praise and prayer. Our modern advocates for instrumental
music in God's worship, to be consistent, must associate with the "harps," the "incense-cups"
and the "golden altar:" for all belonged alike to the service of the temple. Even in the time
when such "vessels of the ministry" were in use with divine approbation, the Psalmist had greater
clearness,--more evangelical conceptions of the temporary use of those "beggarly elements whereunto
many desire again to be in bondage" than they seem to have. (Gal. iv. 9.) He knew, even then,
that "incense and the evening sacrifice" represented spiritual worship. (Ps. cxli. 2.) Others
there are, who question whether Christ as Mediator be the formal object of worship? While they
acknowledge his supreme deity as God equal with the Father, they are in doubt on his assuming
human nature, whether, "as such, he is the object of worship!" Such doubts are groundless,
as unanswerably shown in this place, and in many others, such as John xx. 28: xxi. 17; Ps.
xlv. 11; xcvii. 7; Heb. i. 6. (1 Pet. ii.

Vs. 9, 10.--"They sung a new song." They all agreed in the matter, as well as in the divine
object of worship. "Now will I sing to my well beloved a song of my beloved touching his vineyard."
(Isa. v. 1.) Agreed as to the object and matter of the song none is silent in Immanuel's praise,--no
select choir, not one who worships by proxy. Such belong to a different fellowship. This is
the "song of the Lamb," which joined to the "song of Moses," constitutes the whole of the "high
praises of the Lord," leaving no place for the vapid, empty, bombastic, amorous and heretical
effusions, of uninspired men, whether of sound or "corrupt minds."--The burden of the song
is the same as the "Song of Songs" and the forty-fifth Psalm,--"Christ crucified,"--Christ
glorified, "the praises of him who hath called them from darkness into his marvellous light."
The key-note among them all is the work of redemption. "Thou hast redeemed us to God by thy
blood,"--us, and not others in the same condition. Others may talk of a ransom that does not
redeem: but these dwell with emphasis upon the price and power that brought them "out of every
kindred, and tongue, and people, and nation." This happy and joyful company never conceived
the idea that, in order at once to vindicate Jehovah's moral government and give the most impressive
demonstration of his opposition to sin, he subjected his beloved Son to untold sufferings,
which should be equally available by all his enemies, but specially intended for none in particular!
They never imagined that their adorable Creator was under a natural necessity of "seeking the
greatest good of the greatest number," that he might thereby escape the just imputation of
partiality. Such impious conceptions imply distributive injustice on the part of God, when
he "spared not the angels that sinned, but cast them down to hell." (2 Pet. ii. 4.) Neither
man's chief end nor God's is the happiness of creatures,--no, neither in creation nor redemption,
as is clear to unsophisticated reason, and plainly determined by the Spirit of God. (See ch.
iv. 11; Isa. xliii. 7, 21; Eph. i. 12.) The manifestation of his own perfections,--his own
glory, is the highest and ultimate end of Jehovah in all his purposes and works. "The Lord
hath made all things for himself." (Prov. xvi. 4; Rom. xi. 36.) Now, if the Lamb has redeemed
the whole human family, as some affirm; then it will follow that all must be saved, or Christ
died in vain, in reference to them that are lost: and besides, the "Judge of all the earth"
would be chargeable with exercising distributive injustice, in exacting double payment, first
from the Surety, and then from the sinner! "That be far from God." "He is just and having salvation,"--"a
just God and a Saviour." (Zech. ix. 9; Isa. xlv. 21.) As there can be no liberty without law,
so there can be no mercy without justice, though there may be "justice without mercy." (James
i. 25; ii. 13.) This worshipping company, the representatives of the universal church, ascribe
their redemption to the blood of Christ. It is their declared faith that pardon is grounded
on atonement, that "without shedding of blood is no remission." (Heb. ix. 22; Lev. xvii. 11;
ch. i. 5.) They believe, moreover, that as the obedience of Christ unto death, his doing and
dying, is an adequate satisfaction to law and justice; so by compact between the Father and
the Son, his penal sufferings avail the believing sinner for pardon. Thus it is, that "if we
confess our sins, he (God the Father,) is faithful and just to forgive us our sins." (1 John
i. 9.) This doctrine the apostle, as the mouth of the whole church, had already avowed: (ch.
i. 5, 6;) and now again we have it repeated and incorporated in the song of praise. Thus, while
"Christ crucified is to the Jews a stumbling block, and to the Greeks foolishness;" to them
who are saved this humbling doctrine is "the power of God and the wisdom of God." (1 Cor. i.
24, 25.) God's glory and the saints' honor and felicity equally spring from the slaying of
the Lamb. These good things the blood of Abel's sacrifice spake in type soon after the fall:
and here we have the same things proclaimed as the faith of all believers. (Heb. xi. 1.)

By this blood they are consecrated a "royal priesthood" to offer up spiritual sacrifices; and
there is a period in the world's eventful history, when they shall "reign on the earth." Of
the nature of this reign there are two views entertained. That of the Millenarians, under the
supposed corporeal presence of Christ, which is too gross, after the manner of carnal Jews:
the other too refined and remote, after the manner of carnal Christians, who "will not have
this man to reign over them,"--except in the church. Such Christians come very near the views
and sentiment of those who exclaimed,--"Not this man, but Barabbas." (John xviii. 40.) Of the
nature of Christ's royal dominion we will have occasion to treat in other parts of the Apocalypse;
but we take occasion to remark, that his kingly office is formally and meritoriously founded
on the efficacy of his sacrifice: "Thou art worthy, for thou wast slain."--That the saints
shall "reign in glory" in company with their Saviour is a precious scripture truth; but it
is not the truth taught in the words,--"we shall reign on the earth." This is not the place
to enter on a full discussion of the doctrine here avowed; yet the following may be adduced
as part of the warrant of this doctrine. (Dan. vii. 27; Rev. xx. 4.)

11.

Vs. 11, 12.--Here we have the concurrence of holy angels, as seen by John in vision, with all
the redeemed in acts of solemn worship offered directly to the Lamb.--"Many angels," how many?
Some divines have actually attempted, by arithmetical rules, to compute the number! Such employment
may amuse, but it cannot edify. The definite here mentioned for indefinite numbers, may be
easily computed; (as in Dan. vii. 10; Ps. lxviii. 17;) but still we would labor in vain "to
find out the account;" for we are expressly told that they are "innumerable." (Heb. xii. 22.)
Like the ransomed children of Adam, they are "a great multitude which no man can number." (ch.
vii. 9.) Why then attempt that which the Holy Spirit has pronounced impossible? "Vain man would
be wise." It is of much more consequence for us to contemplate their position, relations and
employments. Their position is "round about the throne," beholding the "Lamb as it had been
slain." The law of their creation could not reveal to them this object of adoration. That they
may know their duty to the Mediatorial Person as their moral Head, it is requisite that they
be directed by a new revelation. Accordingly, we find a "new commandment" issued from God the
Father expressly to them. (Ps. xcvii. 7; Heb. i. 6.) "Worship him, all ye gods;" that is, "Let
all the angels of God worship him." By the development of the eternal counsels of God in his
dealings with the church, these "principalities and powers in heavenly places," discover with
adoring wonder more and more of the "manifold wisdom of God." They stoop down, as it were,
"to look into this" mysterious economy, (Eph. iii. 10, 11; 1 Pet. i. 12.) They are humbly but
intensely desirous to discover still more of "the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the
world unto the glory" of their fellow worshippers. (1 Cor. ii. 7.) Such is their position.--They
are related to the Lamb as his subjects by the Father's grant and command. "He (Jesus) is gone
into heaven ... angels ... being made subject unto him." (1 Pet. iii. 22.) They are also related
to the "elder" and "animals," the members and ministers of the church. Said one of them to
John,--"I am thy fellow-servant." (ch. xix. 10.) Angels are not ashamed to call them "fellow-servants,"
whom the Lord Jesus "is not ashamed to call his brethren." (Heb. ii. 11.) As the "four animals"
are nearer the throne than the "elders," so are the "elders" nearer the throne than the angels.
These are ranged, in John's view, in the outside segment of the circle. All the redeemed, ministry
and membership, are "nearer of kin" to the Lamb than angels are. "He took not on him the nature
of angels, but he took on him the seed of Abraham." (Heb. ii. 16.) All believers are "members
of his body, of his flesh and of his bones." (Eph. v. 30.) He has highly advanced human nature,
by taking it into real and indissoluble union with his divine person. This is the special ground
of nearness and intimacy between Christ and his brethren. And O, how ought we to emulate holy
angels in adoring this precious Redeemer! "He loved the church and gave himself for it," (Eph.
v. 25,) and he loved and gave himself for every member of the church. (Gal. ii. 9:) and all
the honor, thus ascribed to the Mediator by both classes of worshippers, is intended to terminate
ultimately on the person of God the Father. (Phil. ii. 9-11.) The Father "hath committed all
judgment unto the Son, that all men," yes, and all angels, "should honor the Son, even as they
honor the Father."

Vs. 13,14.--In addition to angels and men, we have here enumerated "every creature" in the
whole vast universe, co-operating in the worship of the two divine Persons as associated in
concerting and executing the plan of redemption. Thus the "host of heaven" and all inferior
creatures according to their several capacities unite in ascribing "blessing, and honor, and
glory, and power, unto him that sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb for ever and ever."
And we may say with Nehemiah,--They are both "exalted above all blessing and praise." (Neh.
ix. 5.) Fallen angels and reprobate men are excluded, from the nature of the case, and by the
unalterable laws of the moral government of the Most High, from any participation in this service.
(Ps. cx. 1; 1 Cor. xv. 24, 25; Luke xix. 27.)--Can any one who denies the supreme deity of
the Lord Jesus, or who refuses to worship him, ever join the society of these worshippers?
Or, supposing the possibility of their admission, could they be otherwise than miserable? O
the "blasphemy of them who say they are Jews!"--This is one of the sublime doxologies framed
by the Holy Spirit, for the use of all creatures on special occasions, but not to be abused
by "vain repetitions" as by Papists and Prelates. The like specimens of the "high praises of
the Lord" we have in Ps. lxix. 34.--As the three ranks of worshippers here presented in vision
to John, beautifully harmonize in holy exercises, each in its appropriate sphere; so the "animals
and elders,"--the rulers and ruled of the church, take precedence of all others in acts of
solemn worship, and also close the solemn service, saying,--"Amen."

The "sealed book" being delivered by the Father into the possession of the Mediator, the whole
creation awaits with confidence and joy the development of the counsels of God, as they may
affect the destinies of his redeemed people. The "Lamb has prevailed to open the book," and
his established character is sufficient guarantee for success in accomplishing the responsible
work assigned him by his Father. This feeling of confidence is expressed by the worshippers,
not only by the matter of their praise, but also by the closing word, "amen;" which word is
expressive of their "desires and assurance to be heard."

CHAPTER VI.

1.

Vs. 1, 2.--The apostle "saw when the Lamb" proceeded to disclose the contents of the book by
breaking the seals in regular succession. It is not requisite to suppose that each of the seals
covers an exactly equal part of the roll. These parts may be quite different in quantity or
length. It is obvious, however, that upon the breaking of any one seal, that part of the roll
which the seal was intended to cover, would be disclosed to a spectator's view,--the whole
of such part and no more. We shall find as we advance that the several parts of this book are
in fact very different in extent. When the seventh and last seal is opened, the whole contents
of the book must of course be disclosed: and it will appear that the last of the seals contained
a much greater part of the roll than any of the others. To a superficial reader this may be
apparent from the circumstance that within the compass of this short chapter, six of the seals
exhibit their contents.

By the most learned and sober divines the first six seals are considered as disclosing the
events which transpired from the time of the apostle John till the overthrow of pagan idolatry
in the Roman empire and the accession of Constantine.

Let us consider the contents of these seals in order: Upon the opening "of one of the seals,"
the first of course, "one of the four animals" with a voice like "thunder, said, Come and see."
This was the animal like a "lion," emblematical of those bold and dauntless servants of Christ
who took their life in their hand and "went every where preaching the word," (Acts viii. 4.)
Many expositors, of secular notions and affinities, imagine that some one of the Roman emperors
is to be understood as represented by him who rides on the white horse,--Vespasian, Titus,
or Trajan. To name such figments is enough to confute them in the mind of such as have spiritual
discernment. "White" is not the divinely chosen symbol of bloody warriors or persecutors. It
is most frequently the emblem of purity, legal or moral. (Matt. xvii. 2; Rev. iii. 4, 5.) "White
horse" may represent the gospel, the Covenant of Grace or the church. In this "chariot," (Song
iii. 9,) or upon this horse, as it were, Christ, "the captain of salvation" in apostolic times,
"went forth conquering, and to conquer." Much opposition from Jews and Gentiles was raised
against his gospel, especially upon his exaltation to his mediatorial throne: but the opening
of this seal discloses the Father's purpose to bear out his Son in extending his rightful conquests.
(Isa. xlii. 4.) "The Lord gave the word; great was the company of those that published it."
(Ps. lxviii. 11.) The "bow and the crown" as symbols, combine the military and regal character
of Christ, indicating his victories and succeeding exaltation. He shall wound the heads over
the large earth; therefore shall he lift up the head. (Ps. cx. 6.) He is the "Prince of peace,"
and the primary object of his mission by the Father is, to establish "truth and meekness and
righteousness" in the earth. Yet he is a "Lamb," but a Lamb that makes war; and "in righteousness
he doth judge and make war." (ch. xix. 11.) In this last cited text we have an irrefragable
proof of the correctness of our interpretation of the symbols under the first seal.

V. 3,4.--The opening of the "second seal" furnishes occasion for the "second animal" to cry,
"Come and see." It is the customary business of faithful ministers to invite the disciples
of Christ to a contemplation of his providential procedure. "Come, behold the works of the
Lord." (Ps. xlvi. 8.) This is the call of the ministry represented by the symbol of a "calf
or young ox." "Patient continuance in well doing" is the special duty of Christ's servants
in times of suffering. And such seems to be the import of the emblem, the "red horse." By the
horse, singly considered, we are to understand a dispensation of providence. So we are to view
it as a symbol in Zech. i. 8; vi. 1-8. The prophet said, "O, my Lord, what are these?... And
the man answered,--These are they whom the Lord hath sent to walk to and fro through the earth."
We speak familiarly of a "dispensation of the gospel,"--the "white horse." Our attention is
now called to a "red horse,"--fiery, as the word imports. The character of the dispensation
is thus indicated as bloody. Wars should prevail so as to "take peace from the earth." "They
should kill one another." The instrument of slaughter is seen,--"a great sword." Mutual slaughter
does not seem to harmonize with the idea of persecution, by which the saints only "are killed
all the day long." History records that insurrections, battles, massacres and devastations
of an extraordinary kind took place in the first half of the second century, by which more
than half a million of the Jews perished by the hand of the pagans; and a still greater number
on the opposite side were slain by the Jews. Thus the two parties who rivalled each other in
opposing the gospel and the progress of Christ's kingdom, were made by him the instruments
of their mutual destruction. For he it is who directs the movements and course of providence,
the "red horse." "Behold what desolations he hath made in the earth!" "In this text," says
an eminent expositor, "earth signifies the Roman empire." ... "Daniel, ... whose sealed prophecy
is explained by the opening of the Apocalyptical seals, denominates the Roman empire, 'the
fourth kingdom upon earth.'" We humbly suggest, that this does not render the Roman empire
synonymous with earth, any more than the Chaldean, Persian, or Grecian. And indeed the monarchs
of those empires put forth as extensive claims to universal empire as ever the Cesars did.
The word earth is to be interpreted always by the context. Like the term world, it may sometimes
signify the Roman empire, as Luke ii. 1. But in other cases even within the compass of the
Apocalypse, it is not to be so understood without manifest confusion, as in ch. xvi. 1, 2.
The contents of all the vials are there said to be poured out upon the earth; but earth is
afterwards the special object of the first only. It follows that this term cannot be uniformly
and safely in this book interpreted as identical with and limited by the Roman empire. The
importance of accuracy here may become more apparent in our future progress.

Vs. 4-6.--The third of the four "animals" calls attention to the disclosures made by breaking
the "third seal." Hie "had a face as a man," (ch. iv. 7,) indicating, as already said, active
sympathy, affectionate counsel and seasonable exhortation in calamitous times. Christian ministers
need "the tongue of the learned to speak a word in season to him that is weary," when the judgments
of God are abroad in the earth; for some of these press, most sensibly, on the poor. Such is
the character of the dispensation symbolized by the "black horse." Scarcity of bread is the
judgment represented here by the combined symbols. "Our skin was black like an oven, because
of the terrible famine." (Lam. v. 10; Zech. vi. 2.)--The rider "had a pair of balances in his
hand." The word translated "balances," literally rendered, signifies a yoke,--pair,--couple.--In
popular use, it came to signify an instrument for weighing commodities, from the counterpoising
(double) scales. This symbol indicated famine,--that people should "eat bread by weight and
with care;" (Ezek. iv. 16;) and this is confirmed by the "voice in the midst of the four animals:"--"A
measure of wheat for a penny," etc. The quantity of food, and the price, as here announced,
would seem to the English reader to express plenty and cheapness. But when it is understood
that the "measure of wheat" was the ordinary allowance for a laboring man, and "a penny" the
usual wages for one day; a little more than a quart, for about fifteen cents: it may be asked,
How could the laboring man procure food and clothing for himself, his wife and children? It
is said that three times the quantity of "barley" could be had for the same money; but being
a coarser and less nutritious grain, it would reach but little farther in sustaining a family.
Famine usually falls heaviest on the middle and lower classes of society. Even in such times
the "rich fare sumptuously every day." Accordingly, "the oil and the wine,"--some of the staple
productions of Canaan,--are exempted from the providential blight sent upon the necessaries
of life. (Gen. xliii. 11.)

According to history, from the year 138, till near the end of the second century, a general
scarcity of provisions was felt, notwithstanding all the care and foresight of emperors and
their ministers to anticipate the scourge. The Pharaohs on the throne had no Joseph to lay
up in store in the "years of plenty." But when our New Testament Joseph would thus fight against
the persecutors of his saints by the judgment of famine; he gave previous intimation here to
his disciples of the approaching calamity, as his manner is to his own. (Luke xxi.

Vs. 7, 8.--"It is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting,"
according to the judgment of the wisest of mere men; (Eccl. vii. 2,) and so we are invited
here by a spiritually-minded ministry,--"like a flying eagle." A scene of lamentation, mourning
and woe, is disclosed at the opening of the "fourth seal."--All the symbols betoken augmented
severity in the judgments. There is "pestilence" added to the sword and famine. "The pale horse,"
or livid green, is the emblem of pestilence. The Mediator conducts the destroying angel to
fulfil the will of God. "Before Him went the pestilence;" and by a combination of awful symbols,
the king of terrors,--"death," is represented as slaying his victims, and "hell followed with
him," satiated with his prey. "Sword, hunger, death and beasts of the earth," were commissioned
to lay waste the fourth part of the then known world.

If we are to interpret the "beasts of the earth" literally, then we may easily perceive how
the depopulation produced by the other calamities would make way for their increase and destructive
ravages. But if we understand these "beasts" as symbolizing the persecuting powers; then adding
these to all the other destructive agencies,--especially to the "pale horse," the chief symbol
in the group; we may readily perceive the force of the combined emblems, a concentrating, as
it were, of all destroying agencies. Historians inform us, that "a pestilence arising from
Ethiopia, went through all the provinces of Rome, and wasted them for fifteen years." This,
added to the sword of war and persecution, which lasted sixty years, according to some interpreters,
or from 211 to 270, would seem to exhaust the events symbolized by the series of the seals,
except the seventh, so far at least as the sufferings of the church are concerned. For under
the fifth and sixth seals, as will appear, nothing of a calamitous nature befalls the righteous.

Vs. 9-11.--At the opening of the fifth seal, none of the "four animals" calls attention to
its contents. This fact may indicate that no new development of providence is intended, but
rather the effects of the preceding three, produced upon the church and saints of God; as the
sixth discloses the penalty inflicted on his and their enemies.

John saw the "souls of them that were slain."--Souls are visible only in vision, (ch. xx. 4.)
These souls were not slain, but they were the souls of them, the persons, that were slain.
(Matt. x. 28.) The enemy could kill the body only, an essential part of the human person, although
the chief aim was to kill the soul. The ground of their suffering was the same, as that of
John, (ch. i. 9.) And from the first of this honoured class,--Abel, mentioned in the Bible,
to the last,--Antipas; the cause is the same, and the distinguished name is the same. They
are "martyrs for the word of God, and for the testimony which they held." And however tenaciously
a person may hold other principles, even though he should die for them, he is not a martyr.
The aphorism is true,--It is not suffering for religion, but "the cause that makes the martyr,"--suffering
unto death from love to "the truth as it is in Jesus."

These souls were "under the altar," in allusion still to the outward means of grace under the
Old Testament economy. It is not very material, perhaps, whether we understand the altar for
sacrifice or that for incense, the comfortable doctrines, often taught in the Scriptures, are
here illustrated. First, That the redemption of the sinner is by the atoning sacrifice of Christ.
Second, That after death,--especially by martyrdom, the soul is safe "under the altar,"--in
fellowship with the Saviour. Third, That the soul, "made perfect in holiness," retains a deep
conviction, that "vengeance belongs to God," (ch. xviii. 20; xix. 1-3.) Fourth, That "the spirits
of just men made perfect," both desire and need instruction relative to the future evolution
of the divine purposes. Adoring the infinite perfections of God, acknowledging his holiness
and acquiescing in his faithfulness; they cannot but desire a farther display of his vindictive
and distributive justice, as indispensable to the manifestation of the divine glory, the vindication
of the claims of the divine government, the asserting of their injured rights, and the completing
of their eternal felicity. Accordingly, we find their earnest plea admitted. "It was said unto
them, that they should rest."--Their repose can never be disturbed. The "white robes" in which
they are arrayed, are not spun out of their own bowels, like the spider's web, either by their
services or sufferings; but they are the well known emblems of the imputed righteousness of
their Redeemer,--fine linen clean and white, the only righteousness of saints, (ch. xix. 8).
Persecution did not terminate under the preceding seals. Others, their "fellow-servants and
brethren, should be killed as they were." The honorable roll of martyrs was not yet completed.
The "little season" is a very indefinite period in our mode of computation. But "with the Lord,
one day is as a thousand years,"--(2 Pet. iii. 8.) This "season" seems to comprehend the whole
period of persecution. Now, as we shall see, the Roman empire, whether pagan or Christian,
is still a ravenous beast,--"devouring Jacob."

The policy of Rome pagan was to dictate the state religion. The idol gods of the conquered
provinces were generally adopted and enrolled among those of the Pantheon. There was a niche
for any and every god but "Jacob's God." As he would permit no rival, (Exod. xx. 2, 23; Is.
xlii. 8;) so the populace "would have none of Him," (Acts xvi. 19-21.) Such we will find to
be the policy of Rome Christian. There is no "communion between light and darkness."

Vs. 12-17.--The sixth seal is opened, like the rest, by the hand of the Mediator, and here
"his right hand teacheth terrible things." "By terrible things in righteousness wilt thou answer
us, O God of our salvation." (Ps. lxv. 5.) The awful scene disclosed would seem to be a beginning
of answer to the importunate cry of the "souls under the altar," as in the foregoing vision.

Many expositors since the time of Cyprian in the third century, have understood this seal as
disclosing the scene of the last judgment. No doubt the symbols here employed are suited to
that event; but the series of seals, trumpets and vials, not to speak of events still more
remote, wholly precludes such an interpretation. All the symbols under the sixth seal betoken
revolution. Such is their established and well known import in other parts of Scripture.

The "earthquake" is more than a shaking of the earth. It is a concussion of the heavens also.
As Haggai is interpreted by Paul, we learn the civil and ecclesiastical change of the Jewish
polity by the "shaking of the heavens and the earth." (Hag. ii. 6; Heb. xii. 26, 27.) The day
of final judgment is so often referred to as certain, that no special prediction was needed
to assure us of that event. Indeed, the description of the day of judgment is commonly employed
by the prophets to represent revolutions among the nations. So it is in reference to the overthrow
of Babylon, (Is. xiii. 13.)--of Egypt, (Ezek. xxxii. 7, 8,) of Jerusalem, (Matt. xxiv. 7, 29.)
The "sun, moon and stars" are emblems of civil officers, supreme and subordinate, as well as
of military commanders. Their consternation and despair, now that they are cast down from their
exalted position, as heavenly luminaries darkened and hurled from their orbits, betray their
apprehension of deserved and inevitable wrath. Indeed we may view the last three verses of
this chapter, as exegetical or explanatory of the preceding three. The whole frame of imperial
power underwent a change which is commonly called a revolution. And the grandeur of the complex
symbols, borrowed from the closing scene of time, was never more appropriately employed by
the Spirit of prophecy, than in the present instance, to portray the total overthrow of pagan
power, idolatry and tyranny. The most conspicuous instrument in the Mediator's hand by which
this great revolution was effected, is well known in history as "Constantine the Great." The
great lights of the heathen world, the powers civil and ecclesiastical, were not eclipsed,
but extinguished, heathen priests and augurs were extirpated and idolatrous temples were closed.
Christianity was professed by the emperor himself, and his authority exerted for its recognition
and diffusion throughout his dominions. Thus did the God of Israel "avenge his own elect, who
cried to him night and day from under the altar;" and thus did he afford unto them a "season
of rest."

Constantine, however, was more of a politician than divine. To the student of history he will
appear in many respects a striking prototype of William Prince of Orange, who on a less extended
scale answers as an antitype in the latter part of the seventeenth century. Neither of them
exemplified in their lives the "power of godliness". Like Charles the Second, they did not
consider primitive apostolic Christianity "a religion for a gentleman." Constantine combined
in his character the properties of the lion and the fox. He was crafty and ambitious. Usurping
the prerogatives of Zion's King, he assumed a blasphemous supremacy over the church, and proceeded
to model her external polity after the example of the empire. Among the Christian ministry,
he found mercenary spirits who pandered to his ambition,--"having his person in admiration
because of advantage." Advancing these to positions of opulence and splendor, he could certainly
rely upon them to support him in his schemes of aggrandizement. Thus the mystery of iniquity,
whose working Paul discovered in his time, was nurtured to its full development in Heaven's
appointed time. (2 Thess. ii. 7, etc.) If on such occasions mighty kings and valiant generals
are stricken with dismay, what shall be the terror of all the impenitent enemies of the Lord
and his Anointed when the heavens and the earth shall pass away and leave them without these
imaginary hiding places from "the wrath of the Lamb!"

CHAPTER VII.

The scenes portrayed by varied symbols in this chapter, are by some considered as a continuation
of the sixth seal. We think they may with more propriety be viewed as relating to the events
under the four which precede; while they are obviously preparatory to the opening of the last
seal in the next chapter.

1.

V. 1. The "four angels" represent the instruments of providence. The "four corners of the earth"
intend all nations of the world, as then known in geography. (Ch. xx. 8, 9.) The "holding of
the winds" is emblematical of the tranquillity consequent upon the accession of Constantine
to the imperial throne,--the temporary cessation of desolating wars and persecutions,--the
"rest" for which the martyrs prayed. "Thou calledst in trouble, and I delivered thee." (Ps.
lxxxi. 7.)

2.

Vs. 2, 3.--"Another angel ... having the seal of the living God," can be none other but the
Lord Christ. His people are "sealed unto the day of redemption with that Holy Spirit of promise,"
or promised Holy Spirit. (2 Cor. i. 22; Eph. i. 13). He came from the east. There the Son of
righteousness arose upon a dark world, and his beams enlightened the kingdoms of Europe, in
which multitudes were effectually called during this tranquil period, (ch. xiv. 1). This angel,
as having sovereign authority over "earth and sea," and from whom the "four angels" had their
commission, now commands them not to "hurt the earth and the sea," till He and the ministers,--the
instruments of his grace,--had "sealed the servants of God." This "sealing," while symbolizing
baptism, signifies especially the saving work of the eternal Spirit, by which its subjects
are to be, and actually are, preserved from apostacy in future and trying times. We shall meet
with them again, (ch. xiv. 1.)

The favour shown by Constantine to Christian ministers and converts, induced multitudes to
make a profession of Christianity, and of course filled the church with hypocrites. The flattery
of those in power has often proved as detrimental to the church's spiritual prosperity as their
frowns. (Dan. xi. 32.) Still, the special design of this sealing seems to be the preservation
of a chosen remnant,--the witnesses, during the period of the trumpets, when Antichrist should
be fully organized.

Vs. 4-8.--The number sealed was "a hundred forty and four thousand;" of "each tribe twelve
thousand." These numbers are not to be taken literally, but comparatively, as contradistinguished
from another company, (v. 9.) Neither do we suppose, with many expositors, that Jews by nation
are here exclusively intended. At the time referred to, in the fifth century, the "middle wall
of partition" had been long removed. (Eph. ii. 14.) Jews and Gentiles were "all one in Christ
Jesus." (Gal. iii. 28.) There is no ground to suppose that exactly the same number would be
sealed of every tribe. Besides, all the original tribes are not named. Dan is not among them,
and Judah is first in order in Reuben's place. The gates of the heavenly Jerusalem are inscribed
with the names of the twelve tribes of Israel, (ch. xxii. 12.) In a word, this sealed company
is composed of Jews and Gentiles, representing the whole number of true believers, who were
enabled by grace to hold fast their profession in trying times, and who experienced more special
protection in perilous times. (Ezek. ix. 4-6.)

9.

11. Amen.

Vs. 9-12.--The "great multitude, which no man could number," are evidently distinguished from
the number sealed. They are collected from all the nations known at that time. They "stood
before the throne and before the Lamb," as accepted worshippers; ascribing "salvation," not
to their own merit, but to the free grace of God the Father, and the oblation and intercession
of the Lamb. They are now in a triumphant state, as indicated by the "palms in their hands,"
the usual emblems of victory. "White robes" bespeak their justification. "All the angels" in
heaven, signify their hearty assent to the praises of the redeemed by saying, "Amen." Then
in an attitude of profoundest reverence, they celebrate the praises of God in strains proper,
though not peculiar to themselves. As in ch. v. 11, the angels in this place are disposed and
arranged in the outer circle of all the intelligent worshippers. Redeemed sinners stand nearest
to the throne, in virtue of their union to Christ, while holy angels, without envy, contemplate,
with rapturous emotions, the displays of the "manifold wisdom of God" in his dealings with
the church. (Eph. iii. 10.) Thus we may learn to do the will of God on earth, as it is done
by the angels in heaven.

13. And one of the elders answered, saying unto me, What are these which are arrayed in white
robes? and whence came they?

Vs. 13-17.--"One of the elders" asks John,--not for information, but to engage his attention,--"What
are these, ... and whence came they?" Ministers may often receive instruction from the members
of the church. This elder answers his own questions as the angel did to the prophet, (Zech.
iv. 5, 6.) These are the "great multitude,"--probably the same whose "souls" John saw at the
opening of the fifth seal, but now appearing in a new aspect: for it is evident that they had
been engaged in war. This appears by the "palms" of victory. They had been in "great tribulation"
prior to the peaceful reign of Constantine, by Satan's temptations, the spoiling of their goods,
imprisonment of their persons, and the sacrifice of their lives,--"not loving their lives unto
the death." All these tribulations, however, could not separate them from the love of God.
(Rom. viii. 37-39.) They had "washed their robes,"--not in penitential tears, their own martyr-blood,
their doing or suffering in the cause of Christ; but their robes were "made white in the blood
of the Lamb," who was "made of God unto them ... justification and sanctification." (1 Cor.
i. 30.) Could the human mind conceive the idea of rendering linen garments white by washing
them in blood? Never, unless as suggested by the doctrine of Christ crucified, whose "blood
cleanseth from all sin." (1 John i. 7.) "Therefore are they before the throne of God,--without
fault before his throne," (ch. xiv. 5.) Delivered from the tempestuous storms of war, and the
scorching heat of persecution; they are safe in the haven of eternal rest.

Not only are they for ever freed from the sensation of "hunger or thirst;" but they shall drink
of the "living fountains of waters, proceeding from the throne of God and of the Lamb," (ch.
xxii. 1). (Ps. xvi. 11.) While this company, brought out of great tribulation, to which they
had been subjected in the centuries before the time of Constantine, are represented as in possession
of eternal blessedness, the other company of the "sealed" ones, are by this mark furnished
with the gifts and graces of the Holy Spirit, to enter the lists with the Dragon in a much
more trying and prolonged contest. The latter company, although preceding the other, in the
order of symbolic revelation; do really in the order of time, succeed them in continuation
of the struggle with the powers of darkness. And here we make the general remark, That nearly
throughout the Apocalypse the two parties whom we may call the powers of darkness and the children
of light, often change their relative positions, and assume different aspects. And in this,
there is nothing new, as appears, 2 Cor. xi. 14, 15; vi. 8, 9.

CHAPTER VIII.

Hitherto our observations have been brief, because interpreters are very generally agreed in
their views of the first series, the seals, in this interesting book of prophecy. The first
six seals, covering the time of heathen Rome's opposition to Christianity, and before the Devil
succeeded in enlisting the nominal church of Christ in his interest, do not therefore furnish
occasion for much controversy among expositors. Besides, the seventh seal covers much more
time than all the others. The first six refer to pagan Rome, and constitute the first period,
properly styled the PERIOD OF THE SEALS. The seventh seal, introducing the trumpets, is the
second period, called the PERIOD OF THE TRUMPETS. In attempting to unfold their mystical import,
greater amplification will be indispensable.

1.

V. 1.--"Heaven" is the ordinary symbol of organized society, whether civil or ecclesiastical
or both. "Silence in heaven for half an hour," indicates public tranquillity, together with
anxious and mute expectation of coming and alarming events. "Half an hour," a definite for
an indefinite duration, as usual, imports that the repose hitherto enjoyed, shall shortly terminate.
The respite which the saints enjoyed during the period succeeding the revolution indicated
by the opening of the sixth seal, soon came to an end.

2.

Vs. 2-4.--"Seven angels" appear to John as ministers "standing before God," ready to execute
his commands. To them were given "seven trumpets." Here, as all along hitherto, there is allusion
to the former dispensation. Under the Old Testament, trumpets were constructed by divine direction
and to be used for diverse purposes. Of the manifold uses of this instrument, that which is
here chiefly intended is, to "sound an alarm." (Joel ii. 1; 1 Cor. xiv. 8). Whilst all is suspense,
and before the silence is broken by the sounding of the first trumpet, the worship of God is
exemplified after the usual manner. An angel, by his official place and work easily distinguished
from those having the trumpets, holds in his hand a "golden censer" that with "much incense"
he might render acceptable "the prayers of all saints." As the angel who had the "seal of the
living God," is distinguished from those that "held the winds," (ch. vii. 1;) so is he here,
from those that had the trumpets. Here he appears as the Great High Priest over the house of
God; and as "the whole multitude of the people were praying without, at the time of incense;"
(Luke i. 10;) so the service of God is thus emblematically represented as conducted according
to divine appointment. This Angel therefore is Christ himself. "No man cometh unto the Father
but by him." He is the only Advocate with the Father; and through him "we have access by one
Spirit unto the Father." (Eph. ii. 18.)

May we not inquire, without presumption, a little into the nature or purport of the "prayers
of all saints" at this time of ominous silence? And what could so likely be the burden of their
petitions as that of the cry of the souls under the altar, namely, the destruction of the Roman
empire? Surely this has been the prayer of God's persecuted servants in all ages:--"Pour out
thy fury upon the heathen," etc. (Jer. x. 25; Ps. lxxix. 6). However inconsistent with Christian
charity superficial Christians may deem the law of retaliation; we shall find it often urged
on our attention as exemplified in this book. It is absolutely essential to the divine government.

5. And the angel took the censer, and filled it with fire of the altar, and cast it into the
earth: and there were voices, and thunderings and lightnings and an earthquake.

V. 5--The Lord Jesus, in carrying out the designs of the divine mind, and executing the commission
which he received from the Father as Mediator, appears in various characters. Whilst as a priest
he intercedes for his people, and by the incense from the golden censer renders their prayers
acceptable before God; as a king he answers their prayers by terrible things in righteousness.
(Ps. lxv. 5). This work of vengeance is vividly signified by scattering coals of fire on the earth.

From the very same altar, whence the glorious Angel of the Covenant had received fire to consume
the incense, he next takes coals, the symbol of his wrath, and scatters them into the earth.
These "burning coals of juniper" produce "voices, and thunderings, and lightnings, and an earthquake."
"O God, thou art terrible out of thy holy places." (Ps. lxviii. 35; lxxvi. 12). "The Lord our
God is a jealous God." Our merciful Saviour once put a strange and startling question to his
disciples:--"Suppose ye that I am come to give peace on earth? I tell you, Nay."--For ends
worthy of himself, the only wise God has unchangeably decreed that "offences must needs come,"
(Matt, xviii. 7;) and "there must be also heresies" among professing Christians. (1 Cor. xi.
19.). However, in the administration of providence, judgment without mercy awaits every nation
to which the gospel is sent in vain. The voices, thunderings, etc., consequent upon the scattering
of the coals, portended the calamities which would be inflicted upon men for their opposition
to the gospel and cruel treatment of the saints, in answer to their prayers through the intercession
of Christ.

6. And the seven angels, which had the seven trumpets, prepared themselves to sound.

V. 6.--The "seven angels now prepare themselves to sound." The first alarm, of course, will
put an end to the "silence." It should be noted that while each seal, when broken, disclosed
so much of the roll of the book as was concealed by it; the seventh leaves no part unrevealed.
The whole contents are laid open. It is otherwise with the trumpets. The reverberations of
one may not have ceased when the next begins to sound. Thus, several may be partly cotemporary.
Again, it may be questioned whether mankind are to be considered in civil or ecclesiastical
organization as the formal object of the judgments indicated by the trumpets. Some expositors
view the one, and some the other, as the object, and the contention has been sharp among them.
We humbly suggest that neither is the formal object without the other, simply because the same
individuals constitute the complex moral person. The correctness of this view is largely illustrated
and abundantly confirmed in the subsequent part of the Apocalypse. Provinces, nations, empires,
are no farther worthy of notice in prophecy than as they affect the destiny of the church and
illustrate the immutable principles of the moral government of God. He is known by the judgments
which he executeth, and nations must be taught that "the heavens do rule." (Dan. iv. 26.) Although
the church and the state are, by divine institution, distinct, not united; they are nevertheless
co-ordinate, and always exert a reciprocal influence for good or for evil. It has been the
policy of Satan to confound this distinction; and alas! with too much success in the apprehension
of many. There are not wanting divines who boldly assert, that even among the Jews, under the
Old Testament,--"the church was the state, and the state was the church!" We may have occasion
to notice hereafter, that this gross error and antichristian dogma, is yet entertained in relation
to divinely organized society under the present New Testament economy!

The "voices, thunderings and earthquakes" resulting from the scattering of the coals,--are
the harbingers and precursors of coming calamities upon Christendom at the sounding of the
trumpets. And these may be emblematical of the contentions, strife and divisions which accompanied
the rise and prevalence of the heresy of Arius and the apostacy of the emperor Julian, during
the time of comparative public tranquillity from Constantine to Theodosius. The church and
the state, as one complex system, we have considered as the object of the judgments to be inflicted
under the trumpets. These had, in fact, become incorporated, if not identified, under the reign
of Constantine and his imperial successors. But assuming the correctness of the phraseology
of secular historians and Christian expositors, when in a popular sense they speak of the Roman
empire as the object of penal inflictions; we by no means agree with the latter class of writers,
when they limit the empire to the geographical boundaries as it existed at the time of this
prediction. This mistake, if not detected here, will materially affect and control our views
of the whole subsequent part of the Apocalypse. Who would not discover the impropriety and
absurdity of treating of events now transpiring within the empire of the United States, as
if falling out within the limits of the original thirteen as they existed in 1776? But the
Roman empire yet exists, and we have sufficient evidence that it will continue till the time
of the sounding of the seventh trumpet, (ch. xi. 15.) Political bias has prevailed with one
class of expositors to exempt the British empire from the stroke of God's wrath, symbolized
by both the trumpets and vials. Others, from similar predilections, would exempt the United
States and British Provinces from these plagues. Whilst a third class, giving fall scope to
the hallucinations of mere imagination, aver their conviction that republican America is the
special and doomed object of all these plagues!--Hence, the necessity of caution, sobriety,
reverence for divine authority, reliance on the teaching of the Holy Spirit, whom the Saviour
has promised to his humble disciples to "guide them into all truth, and to show them things
to come." (John xvi. 13.) That the student of prophecy,--especially of the Apocalypse, may
realize the fulfilment of this promise, it is indispensably necessary that he be absolutely
untrammeled by all antichristian politics. Such cases are very rare, (ch. xiii. 3.)

During the reign of Constantine, that monarch had transferred the capital of the empire from
the "city of seven hills" to another locality and founded another metropolis, which as the
future seat of imperial rule, and to immortalize himself, he called after his own name, Constantinople.
This ambitious enterprise itself virtually divided the empire, preparing the way for its total
dismemberment by the trumpets. And now the "seven angels prepared themselves to sound," for
all things are ready. The interceding Angel at the "golden altar" has prevailed to obtain a
period of tranquillity whilst preparatory steps are in progress towards the next series of
events; but that time shall be no longer, or respite from impending judgments, is significantly
intimated by the symbolical Angel casting his "golden censer" from his hand, and hurling it
into the earth. Then without farther delay,

7. The object of this judgment is the earth, the population of the empire in general. The judgment
itself is, "hail and fire mingled with blood,"--desolating wars, like successive storms of
hail mingled with lightning, "hailstones and coals of fire." (Ps. xviii. 12.) The effect is,
a consumption of a third part of the "trees and grass," people in high and low degrees. Green
trees and grass are the ornaments and products, of a land: and when the earth is an emblem
of nations and dominions, trees and grass may represent persons of higher and lower rank.

The careful student of the Apocalypse will discover a striking analogy between the effects
of the trumpets and vials as the latter are presented in the sixteenth chapter. This first
trumpet therefore produces an effect upon the social order of Christendom, which will continue
till the pouring out of the first vial. As the Roman empire in its twofold division is the
general object of all the trumpets; so the first four are directed towards the western, and
the next two against the eastern member.

The infidel historian Gibbon has unwittingly recorded the fulfilment of these predictions,
as Josephus has done those of our Lord respecting the destruction of Jerusalem. Unconscious
that he was bearing testimony to the truth of prophecy, Gibbon used with his classic pen the
very allegorical language of the inspired apostle. Respecting the incursion of the barbarous
Goths, as led by Alaric their chief into the fertile plains of southern Europe, he describes
their alarming descent as a "dark cloud, which having collected along the coasts of the Baltic,
burst in thunder upon the banks of the upper Danube." He who directed Balaam and Caiaphas to
utter predictions, doubtless could direct Josephus and Gibbon to attest the truth of prophecy;
and this may be one of the many ways in which "he makes the wrath of man to praise him."--The
Goths, the Scythians and Huns, first under Alaric and afterwards under Attila, those savage
warriors from the northern regions, invaded the provinces of the Roman empire in both sections,
carrying all before them like an irresistible tornado,--with fire and sword utterly destroying
cities, temples, princes, priests, old and young, male and female,--thus "burning up trees,
and green grass."

Vs. 8, 9.--"The second angel sounded." The object of this judgment, is the sea. As a great
collection of waters, this symbol is explained, (ch. xvii. 15.) "Peoples, and multitudes, and
nations, and tongues," indicate the population in an agitated and disorganized or revolutionary
condition. The judgment is a "burning mountain," a tremendous object,--consuming and being
itself consumed. The mountain is a symbol of earthly power civil or military, and sometimes
ecclesiastical.--"Who art thou, O great mountain?" (Zech. iv. 7.) The Almighty says to the
king of Babylon,--"Behold, I am against thee, O destroying mountain ... I will roll thee down
from the rocks, and will make thee a burnt mountain." (Jer. li. 25; Ps. xlviii. 2.)

The consequence of this judgment is, the third part of the sea became blood, the fish perished,
and the shipping was destroyed. Similar language, illustrating these figurative expressions,
had been used by the prophets to represent divine judgments denounced against Egyptian power.
(Ezek. xxix. 3, etc.) In the eighth verse is contained the explanation of the symbolic language,--"Behold
I will bring a sword upon thee, and cut off man and beast from thee."

History verifies this part of the Apocalyptic prediction. Only two years after the death of
that northern "scourge of God," Attila, who boasted that "the grass never grew where his horse
had trod;" Genseric set sail from the burning shores of Africa; and, like a burning mountain
launched into the sea, accompanied by a vast army of barbarous Vandals, suddenly landed his
fleet at the mouth of the river Tiber. Disregarding the distinctions of rank, age or sex, these
licentious and brutal plunderers subjected their helpless victims to every species of indignity
and cruelty. Hence the hostility to arts and science, the tokens of refined civilization,--indiscriminate
devastation of life and property perpetrated by the savage warriors, has given rise to the
word "Vandalism."

Vs. 10, 11.--The object of the third trumpet is the waters as before,--the population of the
empire, but not in collective form as a sea; rather in a state of separation or disconnected,
as "rivers and fountains." Some apply this symbol of a "falling star" to Genseric, but this
is incongruous. On the contrary, he was a victorious prince,--a rising star. It is more consonant
to the truth of history and the chronological series of prophecy, to apply this symbol to the
downfall of Momyllus the last of the Roman emperors, who was deposed by Odoacer king of the
Heruli, called in derision Augustulus,--the diminutive Augustus. (Isa. xiv. 12.) A star may
indeed signify either a civil or ecclesiastical officer, but the scope and context determine
all these judgments to the enemies of the church, and those of her illustrious Head. It is
the "vengeance of his temple." We have already found a star the emblem of a gospel minister,
and we shall hereafter find it employed in that sense; but it does not seem to refer in the
present connexion to any apostate. The name of this star,--"Wormwood," embittering the waters,
is a lively emblem of the miseries experienced by the people, in the use of the remaining temporal
comforts which the preceding calamities had left.

V. 12.--The design of all the trumpets is to point out the utter destruction of the Roman empire,--Daniel's
"kingdom of iron." (Dan. ii. 40.) For although from the time of Constantine it assumed the
Christian name, it nevertheless continued to be a beast. Of this we shall have cumulative evidence
as we progress. The first trumpet began to demolish the fabric of antichristian power; and
by the fourth the western division was overthrown. For although the northern barbarians under
the first, the southern Vandals under the second, and the successors of both, prevailed to
bring down the last of the Caesars, yet the ancient frame of government still subsisted. The
political heaven, though shaken, was not yet wholly removed, while the Senate, Consuls and
other official dignitaries continued to shine as political luminaries in the firmament of power.
But as the last of the Caesars fell from power in the year 476, so the last vestige of imperial
dominion in the west was removed in 566, when Rome, the queen of the nations, was by the emperor
of the east reduced to the humble condition of a tributary dukedom. Most of the saints had
their residence at this time in the nations of western Europe and northern Africa, where they
were grievously afflicted by the Arian, Pelagian and other heresies; as also exposed to persecution
by the civil powers, whom those heresiarchs moved to oppress the orthodox: consequently, the
righteous judgments of God fall first upon that member of the empire. The eastern section,
however, is destined to become the special object of the judgments indicated by the succeeding
trumpets. However interpreters differ in details when explaining the effects produced by the
sounding of the first four trumpets, they very generally harmonize in the application of them
to the western section of the Roman empire. The luminaries of heaven are darkened, or fall,
or are extinguished, while the earth, the sea and the rivers are correspondently affected.
Now, these are the well known allegorical representations of divine judicial visitations of
guilty communities, as we find in the prophetic writings. See, for example, the case of Babylon,
"the beauty of the Chaldees' excellency" (Isa. xiii. 1, 10;) also Egypt,--(Ezek. xxxii. 7, 8.)

13.

V. 13.--Before the fifth angel sounds, a note of warning is given by the ministry, of another
angel distinct from the seven with the trumpets. He pronounces a "woe" thrice repeated, upon
the inhabitants of the earth, indicating that heavier judgments and of longer duration are
about to be inflicted. This announcement was intended to excite attention and awful expectation.
This angel's message of "heavy tidings" may be viewed in quite interesting contract with that
of a subsequent angel,--"flying through the midst of heaven," (ch. xiv. 6.) How different,
yet harmonious, is the ministry of those heavenly messengers!

The first four trumpets, as we have seen, demolished the western division of the Roman empire.
About the middle of the sixth century this work was brought to completion. Here, for greater
clearness, we may be allowed to anticipate by digressing a little. Assuming now, what shall
afterwards appear to be correct, that the Roman empire is Daniel's fourth universal monarchy,
and Paul's "let," or hinderance, to the revealing of the "Man of Sin;" since the first four
trumpets have dismembered that great power, revealing the "ten toes,--ten horns," or kingdoms;
we would expect now to hear of the destruction of that "Son of perdition." But it is not so.
That is to be effected by the vials, (ch. xvi.) As the general and grand design of the Apocalypse
is to illustrate the divine government, exhibiting the moral world as affecting, or affected
by the Christian religion, it seemed good to the Divine Author that the destinies of the eastern
section of the Roman empire yet standing, where many of his saints reside, shall come under
review. Ecclesiastical history treats familiarly of a Greek, as well as a Latin church and
empire. As the trumpets cover the whole time from the opening of the sixth seal till the final
overthrow of the whole fourth monarchy; (Dan. vii. 26; Rev. xi. 15,) it follows that the eastern
section must be the object of a part of them. Accordingly, the remaining part of the second
period,--the Period of the Trumpets, includes the first two of the three, emphatically and
significantly styled "woe-trumpets."

CHAPTER IX.

1.

Vs. 1-11.--The scene of the events announced by the sounding of the first "woe-trumpet," is
the eastern Roman empire. A variety of symbols is here employed to represent the judgment to
be inflicted. The principal agents and events are,--a "star, locusts, Apollyon their king,
their depredations, the time of their continuance."

Neither Boniface III. nor Mahomet answers to the symbol "falling star." Allowing that a star,
as a symbol, may represent a person in either civil or ecclesiastical office, no successful
aspirants to places of power, as both of these were, can be here understood. Obviously degradation
and not elevation is intended. Either dethronement of a prince or apostacy of a theological
dignitary must be intended.

No character in history at the time referred to, so well agrees to the symbol of a fallen star
as the monk Sergius, who is known to have been the coadjutor of Mahomet. He had been a monk
of the Christian sect called Nestorians from Nestorius their leader. This monk Sergius had
been excommunicated for heresy and immorality. He was glad to serve the devil as dictator to
Mahomet in composing the Koran, which bears internal evidence of having been written by one
who was acquainted with the Sacred Scriptures. When this degraded man had finished his task,
he was put to death by his master, lest he should betray the imposture.

He opened the bottomless pit, from which issued a smoke darkening the whole face of the heavens.
The pit is hell, whence came the smoke,--the diabolical system of delusion. From the same place
comes the character afterwards to appear under the aspect of a beast, (ch. xi. 7.) Locusts
constituted one of the plagues of Egypt, and they are the emblem of a destroying army. (Exod.
x. 14-19; Joel i. 4-6.) And this is their import here. They represent the deluded and destructive
followers of Mahomet, who in vast multitudes laid waste the nations of western Asia, southern
Europe, and northern Africa. The Saracens, originating in Arabia, the national locality of
the literal locusts, in great multitudes like clouds, laid waste the fairest and most populous
portions of the earth for a succession of ages.

These symbolic locusts have also the property of scorpions, a poisonous reptile, resembling
in some degree a lizard combined with a lobster, armed with a sting in the end of its tail.
Wicked and impenitent men are compared to scorpions. (Ezek. ii. 6.) But these locusts are under
restraint. They are permitted to hurt only "those men which have not the seal of God in their
foreheads." The time of their continuance is "five months," of thirty days each, making 150
years,--"a day for a year." (Ezek. iv. 6.) In the year 606, Mahomet began his imposture by
retiring to the cave of Hera. In 612 he appeared publicly as the apostle of his new religion
at the head of his deluded followers. Between 612 and 762, he and the warlike chiefs who succeeded
him, overran with terrible destruction, Syria, Persia, India, Egypt and Spain. Although the
Saracenic empire continued for a longer time, yet from this time it lost the disorderly Locust
character and because a more settled commonwealth. In the year 762, the city of Bagdad was
built by one of the caliphs, who called it "the city of peace." This put a stop to the devastations
of the locusts, when the empire began to decline. It was foretold, however, that during the
time of successful war by these cruel invaders, they would inflict such miseries upon their
wretched victims, that they would earnestly but vainly desire death to put an end to their
exquisite torments. It is farther said that these locusts resembled horses, as indeed they
do, especially in their heads. The Arabians excelled in horsemanship, and their chief force
lay in cavalry. The "crowns upon their heads" may refer to the turbans worn by the Arabians
as part of their national costume; or to the kingdoms which they subdued. Flowing hair is also
characteristic of these people. Their "teeth" like those of lions indicated their strength
and fury to destroy. "Breast-plates of iron,"--defensive armour, indicates self-protection
by the most effectual public measures. The sound of their wings may denote the fury of their
assaults, and the rapidity of their conquests. But the deadly stings in their tails were their
most fatal instruments of torture, symbolizing the poison of their abominable and ruinous religion.

Their king is "Abaddon or Apollyon," the destroyer: for so is his name by interpretation, both
in Hebrew and Greek. He is from the "bottomless pit,"--from hell, the vicegerent of the devil.
Mahomet in person, and in the person of his official successors, will alone answer to this
duplicate symbol. This is, without a rational shadow of ground for controversy, the Great Eastern
Antichrist, sufficiently distinguished from the Western. The western combination against real
Christianity never attained to power by successful conquest of the nations; but on the contrary
by chicanery, insidious policy, flattery of princes and priestcraft. This enemy is described
with sufficient accuracy and peculiar precision in the subsequent part of the Apocalypse. Prophecy
has a determinate meaning; and we are not at liberty to give loose reins to our imagination:
otherwise we shall bewilder, rather than satisfy the devout and earnest inquirer.

12. One woe is past: and, behold, there come two woes more hereafter.

V. 12.--Before the time of the sixth trumpet, intimation is given that some pause shall intervene
prior to the judgments which are to follow:--"One woe is past."--The object of the first woe
is the nominally Christian Roman empire, which still stands in its Eastern section; and is
to be totally demolished by the second woe-trumpet: for the Western section, recovering from
the effects of the first four trumpets, is the object of the third and last woe. The "man of
Sin,"--the "little horn" of Daniel, is actuating the "ten horns" to "scatter Judah," etc.,
during the time of the Mahometan conquests in the East; by which the whole Roman empire is
ripening for the harvest of the vials of wrath.

Vs. 13-19.--At the sounding of the sixth trumpet, a "voice comes from the four horns of the
golden altar," the immediate presence of the Almighty. This indicates punishment to be inflicted
upon men for corrupting the gospel, similar to the judgment of fire from the "golden censer,"
(ch. viii. 5.) The effects of the first woe may be supposed to reach from the early part of
the seventh century to the latter part of the thirteenth,--the period of Arabian locusts. During
the latter part of this time, the Turks were held in check by the Crusaders, who strove to
wrest the Holy Land from the infidels. The "four angels" are the four Turkish Sultanies. The
river Euphrates is to be taken in this place literally, as designating the geographical locality
of these combined powers, which were the instruments employed by the enthroned Mediator, to
demolish the remaining part of the Roman empire,--"the third part of men." The time occupied
in this barbarous work of slaughter is "an hour, a day, a month and a year," about equal to
391 years; or from the year 1281 to 1672. The Western empire had been overthrown by the first
four trumpets, the Eastern nearly ruined under the fifth; and under the sixth it was finally
subverted. The numbers which the Turks brought into the field are here said to be "two hundred
thousand thousand,"--a definite for an indefinite number as usual, a vast army. And historians
tell us that they were, in fact, from four to seven hundred thousand, and a large proportion
of them cavalry.

From the year 1672, one of their own historians dates the "Decay of the Othman empire!" Since
that date, the Turkish power is well known to have been straitened by the Russian empire.

These eastern warriors and their horses are described by their military costume and their arms.
Fire is red, jacinth blue, and brimstone yellow,--the chosen colors of the Ottoman warriors,
their military uniform. The heads of their horses "as the heads of lions," denote strength,
fierceness and cruelty. "Fire, smoke and brimstone issuing out of their mouths," may be supposed
to indicate the employment of gunpowder, first invented about that time, as an element of destruction.
The commander at the siege of Constantinople is said to have employed cannon, some of which
were of such caliber as to send stones of three hundred pounds weight! Thus their power was
in their "mouth:" but like the locusts, "they had in their tails power to do hurt,"--the deadly
poison of the Koran. The Turks left behind them wherever they went, as the Saracens had done
before, the poisonous and ruinous religion of Mahomet, more durable and injurious to men than
all their bloody conquests. By this abominable system of delusion, the remains of the Greek
church in the Eastern division of the Roman empire, were almost extirpated; Christianity was
nearly extinguished in that part of the world where the gospel had shone brightly, and there
Mahometanism continues till the present day. Such has been the desolating effect of the sixth,--the
second woe trumpet. Thus the Judge of all the earth punishes impenitent communities. Besides
the positive effects of the second wo, we have intimation of some that are negative in the
close of this chapter.

20. Neither repented they of their murders, nor of their sorceries, nor of their fornication,
nor of their thefts.

Vs. 20, 21.--The "rest of the men that were not killed by these plagues," or morally destroyed
by becoming Mahometans, by the foregoing calamities, were not brought to repentance of their
evil deeds. The population of the Western Latin empire and nominal Christian church, still
persisted in their idolatries and immoralities. Both individually and as associated, they openly
violated both tables of the moral law. It is evident from these two verses, that the sins enumerated
in them were the procuring causes of the divine judgments symbolized by the trumpets,--the
two woe-trumpets, all the trumpets,--yes, including the seventh and the last. Professing Christians
both in the Greek and Latin churches, after all the plagues inflicted by the angels of the
past six trumpets, continue to this day in the practice of worshipping demons, angels and saints,
for which they can produce no better arguments than their Pagan predecessors whom the Lord
charges with "worshipping devils" here and elsewhere. (1 Cor. x. 20; Ps. cvi. 37.) In their
stupid worship of senseless images, consecration of places, etc., who cannot perceive the identity
of modern Papists and prelates with those portrayed by the pen of inspiration in the passage
before us? The horrible "murders," massacres and bloody persecutions of the saints, are verified
in authentic history. Papal bulls, imperial and royal edicts, issued against heretics, answer
to the second part of this awful picture. Then follow "sorceries," plainly pointing out pretended
revelations, false miracles, etc. To these are to be added "fornications," corporeal and spiritual,
in a mass of superstitions added to, or supplanting divine ordinances; together with vows of
celibacy, monkeries and nunneries,--followed by public license of brothels. And finally,--"thefts."
By these are to be understood the illegal exactions and oppressive impositions, by which the
nations of Christendom have been plundered of their revenues to enrich the lordly hierarchy
of apostate Christendom. This state of things still continuing after the sixth angel sounds
his trumpet, and no evidence of repentance; who can doubt that the same community is yet to
be visited with the "third woe?" Surely the Lord may justly still say,--"For three transgressions,
and for four, (of Antichrist,) I will not turn away the punishment thereof." The eastern church,
in which the first corruptions prevailed, was punished by the first woe of the Saracens; and
this not producing repentance, her ruin was completed by the second wo of the Ottomans. So,
when God judges, he will overcome; therefore the western church, still persisting in her abominations,
without repentance, shall be destroyed by the third woe. Let not the pious reader suppose that
by these penal inflictions on churches, the church of Christ is to perish. No, no. But, on
the contrary, their overthrow is subservient to her preservation. This also will appear with
increasing evidence as we proceed with our meditations on this instructive book.

In the mean time it may be well to remark here, at the close of those woes which developed
the rise and progress of Mahometanism, that the creed of this religious sect is substantially
the same as that of those Christians called Socinians. Both presumptuously and arrogantly claim
to be the worshippers of the one God,--commonly called Unitarians. This is one of the "depths
of Satan." All who worship, as well as believe in, three co-equal Divine Persons, Father, Son
and Holy Ghost, believe in, and worship one God, and in this sense are Unitarians.--the only
scriptural Unitarians. "Whosoever denieth the Son, the same hath not the Father." (John ii.
23.) And the same is true of such who "have not so much as heard whether there be any Holy
Ghost." (Acts xix. 2.) "He is Antichrist that denieth the Father and the Son,"--a deceiver
and an Antichrist. It is doubtless in view of these soul-ruining heresies, that the beloved
disciple tendered the caution,--"Little children, keep yourselves from idols." (1 John v. 21.)

We would expect the tenth chapter to begin with the sounding of the seventh trumpet; but we
find it is not so. Indeed, we shall not find any direct intimation of the work of the seventh
angel till we come to the fourteenth verse of the eleventh chapter. The sixth trumpet continues
to reverberate throughout Christendom for centuries; and during the intermediate time, our
attention is called to another scene, which the Lord Jesus deemed necessary as preparatory.

CHAPTER X.

This chapter and the greater part of the next, from the first to the fourteenth verse inclusive,
is of the nature of a parenthesis; for the fifteenth verse of the 11th chapter evidently connects
the narrative or series of events with the ninth chapter. The ninth chapter closes with an
intimation of impenitence on the part of those who had been punished by the plagues of the
preceding trumpets. Then it follows, as we have seen, that they are to be still farther visited
by the infliction of the closing judgment symbolized by the seventh trumpet. The immediate
design, therefore, of interrupting the natural order of the narrative is to place before us
the actual condition of society when the seventh trumpet sounds.

1.

Vs. 1-3.--The majestic description of this Angel agrees to no creature. It is proper to God-man
only. It is partly the same display of the Mediator's glory which we had in ch, i. 15. Especially
is this the case as to his face, his feet and his voice. The "rainbow" is still the sign of
the everlasting covenant. "In wrath he remembers mercy."

This "book" differs from the sealed book as a part from the whole, or a codicil from the will
to which it is appended. Also, it is distinguished from the former as being little and open.
They do therefore greatly err here, who would make this little book comprehend all the remaining
part of the Apocalypse, which would make it larger than the sealed book. The little book is
open, because it is part of the large one, from which the last seal had been removed by the
Mediator. But another reason why the little book is represented as being open, is the fact
that the most of the events to which it refers, had transpired prior to the sounding of the
seventh trumpet. That trumpet had been without its appropriate object, as presented in any
preceding part of the prophecy. To present that object is the special design of the little
book. All the events predicted in this book of Revelation are not successive in the order of
time, but some are coincident; and the inspired writer of the Apocalypse, on several occasions
goes back, as we shall see, in order to explain at greater length, what had been but briefly
and obscurely narrated.

The angel set his feet upon the world, as his footstool; by which position is emblematically
signified his sovereign dominion over sea and earth. And this is agreeable to his own plain
teaching in the days of his public ministry:--"All power is given unto me in heaven and in
earth." (Matt. xxviii. 18.) He trod upon the billows of the ocean literally in the state of
his humiliation, giving thereby evidence of his power over the mystical waters,--"the tumults
of the people." During the popular commotions signified by the trumpets, he said to the raging
passions of men and their towering ambition, as to the waves of the sea,--" Hitherto shall
ye come, and no further; and here shall your proud waves be stayed." "He maketh the storm a
calm, so that the waves thereof are still;" and whether the nations of Christendom are at war
or in peaceful tranquillity, he reigns over them as their rightful sovereign;--"his right foot
on the sea, and his left on the earth." In possession of universal dominion, he speaks with
authority, "as when a lion roareth." Although a lamb slain, the victim for our sins; he is
also the Lion of the tribe of Judah, ruling over his own people, restraining and conquering
his own and their enemies.

The "seven thunders," etc., give a premonition of tremendous judgments, the import of which
is to be "sealed up" until it be demonstrated to all the world by the seventh trumpet and vial.
And sware by him that liveth for ever and ever, who created heaven, and the things that therein
are, and the sea, and the things which are therein, that there should be time no longer.

7.

Vs. 4-7.--The attitude assumed by the Angel of the covenant is very impressive, instructive
and exemplary:--"his hand lifted up to heaven." This is the external attitude of solemnity
most becoming the jurant when performing the act of religious worship, the oath. Abraham, in
the presence of the king of Sodom, used the same form, appealing to the "Lord, the Most High
God, possessor of heaven and earth." (Gen. xiv. 22.) "Kissing the book" has no example in all
the Bible; hence it is unquestionably of heathen, and so of idolatrous origin and tendency.
No Christian can thus symbolize with heathens, without so far "having fellowship with devils"
as really as in eating in their temples. (1 Cor. x. 21.)

The matter of the Angel's oath is,--"that there should be time no longer." Here it is humbly
suggested that our excellent translators are faulty as in ch. iv. 6, already noticed. Neither
the original Greek text, nor the coherence of the symbolic narrative, will sustain or justify
the version. John, like all pious people, when he heard the lion's voice, followed by the "seven
thunders," was filled with solemn awe, anticipating the coming dissolution of all things. It
was not the only instance of his weakness and misapprehension, (ch. xix. 10;) nor is this infirmity
peculiar to the apostle John; for we find other disciples mistaking "the times and the seasons
which the Father hath put in his own power." (2 Thess. ii. 1-3.) These Thessalonians had misapprehended
the language of Paul in his first epistle to them, when speaking of the end of the world. (1
Thess. iv. 15-17.) To relieve the anxieties of the Thessalonians, relative to the apprehended
and sudden coming of the Lord, Paul wrote again to correct their mistake; so it may be supposed
that the Angel interposed this solemn assurance to his servant John, for the like purpose,
of allaying his forebodings. The words in the original, literally translated, stand thus: "That
the time shall not be yet." That is, the "time of the end," as we read in Daniel xii. 9, shall
not be, till the seventh trumpet begins to sound. The phrase,--"time of the end," may signify
either the final overthrow of antichristian power, or the end of the world, because of the
resemblance between the two events. The plain and certain meaning, then, of the Angel's oath
is, that the "mystery of God shall be finished" only by the work of the seventh angel. What
this mystery is, we will discover in the following chapters. Indeed, it had been long before
"declared to the prophets," but still accompanied with comparative obscurity suitable to their
time; for the word "declared," is expressive of glad tidings, being the same in origin and
significance as that which we translate,--gospel, good news. 28.) To the prophet Daniel the
same event was attested with like solemnity. (Dan. xii. 7.) This is the period to which the
suffering saints of God have been long looking forward with believing and joyful hope. As Abraham
rejoiced to see Christ's day of appearing in our nature, and by faith saw and it and was glad;
so the covenanted seed of the father of the faithful, in the light of prophecy, and by like
precious faith, are favored with a view of the certain downfall of mystical Babylon.

8. And the voice which I heard from heaven spake unto me again, and said, Go and take the little
book which is open in the hand of the angel which standeth upon the sea and upon the earth.

Vs. 8-11.--John is next directed by a voice from heaven, or by divine authority,--to take and
eat the open book. There is obvious allusion to a similar transaction in Ezekiel iii, 1-3.
The prophet was a captive by the river of Chebar in Babylon, under the dominion of the first
beast of Daniel, as John was in Patmos under that of the fourth; and both were favoured and
employed by the glorious Head of the church in an eminent part of their ministry. "The word
is not bound" when ministers are in confinement.

The "eating of the book" represents the intellectual apprehension of the things which it contained.

"Thy words were found and I did eat them,"(Jer. xv. 16.) A speculative knowledge of the word
of God, and especially of those parts that are prophetical, will afford pleasure to the human
intellect, even though the mind be unsanctified. (Matt. xiii. 20, 21.) But when the prophet
gets a farther insight into the contents as containing "lamentations, and mourning and woe,"
like Ezekiel's roll;--the pleasure is converted into pain. A foresight of the sorrows and sufferings
of Christ's witnesses causes grief to the Christian's sensitive heart. He "weeps with them
that weep," by the spontaneous sympathies of a common and renewed nature. "Sweet in the mouth
as honey, but in the belly bitter as wormwood and gall."

Upon the apostle's digesting the little book, the Angel interprets the symbolic action by the
plain and extensive commission,--"Thou must prophesy again before many peoples, and nations,
and tongues, and kings." This commission did not terminate with the ministry of the apostle,
although he may be truly said to prophesy by the Apocalypse to all nations till the end of
the world. This is equally true, however, of all the inspired penmen of the Holy Scriptures.
(Psalm xlv. 17.) But John is to be considered here as the official representative of a living
and faithful ministry, on whom devolves the indispensable obligation to open and apply these
sacred predictions to the commonwealth of nations, however constituted authorities may be affected
by them. And, indeed, these messages will prove unwelcome to the immoral powers of the earth,
as in the days of old. (1 Kings xviii. 17.)

CHAPTER XI.

The narrative of prophetic events was broken off at the end of the ninth chapter. The tenth
chapter and the greater part of this, from the beginning to the thirteenth verse inclusive,
present appearances and actions quite foreign to the events which follow the sounding of the
trumpets. Why is this, the thoughtful student of the Apocalypse will naturally ask? Why is
the regular series of the trumpets suspended? When the sixth trumpet,--the "second woe,"--has
effected its objects, we naturally expect the seventh trumpet to sound; yet we are held in
suspense till we come to the fourteenth verse of this chapter. Hitherto we have met with no
similar interruption. Let us take a retrospective view:--The seven epistles to the churches
followed each other in regular succession. The seals, in like manner, followed successively;
and this is true of the vials, (ch. xvi.)

We have seen that the object of the trumpets was the Roman empire, the fourth beast of Daniel's
prophecy. The same is the object of the judgments symbolized by the vials. The final subversion
and utter destruction of that beastly power, was plainly revealed in the Babylonian monarch's
dream. (Dan. ii. 44.) And the same event was afterwards exhibited in vision to Daniel, (ch.
vii. 11, 26.) Now the first four trumpets had demolished imperial power in the western or Latin
section; and the next two, by the Saracenic locusts and the Euphratean horsemen had subverted
the eastern or Greek section. Rome and Constantinople were the capitals of the respective sections
or members of the one empire. Under the first four trumpets, by the Northern barbarians; and
under the first two woes, by the Mahometans, both sections of the empire were overthrown. The
question now presses upon our attention, Where shall we find an object for the tremendous judgment
to be inflicted by the third and last woe? This question requires a solution. It demands it;
and he who succeeds in the application of history to solve this apparent enigma in the Apocalypse,
will be able to attain to a satisfactory, a certain, understanding of much that is yet to most
readers as if the "sealed book" were to this day in the "right hand of Him that sitteth on
the throne." Let us humbly attempt to solve this difficulty.

Daniel's fourth beast, the Roman empire, is to be contemplated in diverse aspects, as the varied
symbols obviously require. All know that Nebuchadnezzar's "image" is the same as Daniel's "four
beasts;" therefore the same thing is presented in different forms or aspects. Of course we
are to view that object as presented. We have seen that under the sixth seal, (ch. vi. 12-17,)
the Roman empire underwent a revolution; that is, it was destroyed as to its Pagan form. The
empire became Christian under Constantine. History proves that Christianity degenerated under
the reign of that monarch and his successors. Heresy, idolatry and persecutions characterize
the subsequent history of the empire. Then follow the judgments of the trumpets to vindicate
the divine government, and alleviate from time to time the sufferings of true Christians. While
the two woe-trumpets are demolishing the fabric of idolatry and despotism in the east, the
"deadly wound is healed" in the west, which had been inflicted by the first four trumpets.
Ten horns are developed upon the beast's head, and another "little horn," by all of which the
saints suffer, as had been predicted by Daniel, (ch. vii. 24,) and of which we had intimation
after the judgment of the second woe or sixth trumpet, (ch. ix. 20, 21.) All the "plagues,"
which had been inflicted upon the people of Christendom under this trumpet left them still
impenitent,--"worshipping devils," etc. Surely we may now see where the object of the third
woe is to be found,--namely in the same Roman empire, now become antichristian more than ever
before. To describe this antichristian combination and present the unholy confederacy against
the Lord and his Anointed, and so to justify the ways of God; it was necessary to digress from
the narrative of the trumpets. We now proceed with our observations on the eleventh chapter.

1.

Vs. 1, 2.--This chapter, (vs. 1-13,) gives the contents of the "little book" delivered to the
apostle; as in the tenth chapter. It contains a brief description and prospective history of
the true church of Christ for a period of 1260 years. Her conflicts with Daniel's fourth beast
are here epitomized. As the scene is laid in the temple and ministry all along in the Apocalypse,
so there is probably a special allusion here to Ezekiel's vision, (ch. xl. 5.) At all times
the Christian church is to be organized, and all her ordinances to be administered by divine
rule. Accordingly we have here presented the actual condition of Christendom during the whole
time mentioned above. The command to John from the Angel, is to be understood as from the Lord
Jesus, Zion's only king to the gospel ministry. Long before the time of the transactions here
predicted, the apostle John had gone the way of all the earth. The work here enjoined was to
be performed by his legitimate successors.

The reed is the symbol of the word of God. It is of the same import as Zechariah's "measuring
line." (ch. ii. 1,) and to be used for the same purpose--"to measure Jerusalem," the temple;
for both are emblematical of the church of God. The "temple, altar and worshippers," are emblems
of the church, her doctrines, worship and membership, tried by the Scriptures--the "reed."
There are Gentiles who worship in the outer court, treading under foot both it and the city.
These are formal, immoral, idolatrous professors of Christianity. They are rejected by God
as reprobate, and by his command to be "cast out" from the fellowship of his people,--authoritatively
excommunicated by those to whom Jesus Christ has given the key of discipline.

Here then, at the disclosing of the contents of the little open book, it is manifest that John
goes back from the sixth trumpet in the seventeenth century, when the Eastern section of the
Roman empire was subverted, by the Othmans, and gives us another view of society in Christendom
cotemporaneously with the trumpets. It follows necessarily that the little book does not rank,
as some imagine, under any one trumpet; much less does it comprehend all the remaining chapters
of the Apocalypse, as others vainly suppose. This matter will receive increasing confirmation
as we advance.

Those who worship within the temple and those who worship without, are evidently distinguished
from each other. They differ in character tested by the word of God, in fellowship, as authoritatively
separated according to the rule of the same word: for whereas the gentile worshippers are so
numerous as to crowd both the outer court and the city, the measured worshippers are all included
within the confines of the temple, (Song iv. 12.) Measuring is equivalent to the sealing of
the servants of God in the seventh chapter; and imports that they are secured from the sins
and plagues of their time. The period of the apostacy from God is fixed to "forty and two months."
According to Jewish mode of reckoning, a day for a year, (Num. xiv. 34; Dan. ix. 24,) the whole
period is 1260 years. Each month has thirty days. Multiply forty-two by thirty, and we have
1260. The same period of time,--not merely an equal period, is otherwise expressed by the prophet
Daniel thus: "time, times, and a half." (ch. xii. 7.) That is, 360, the number of days in the
Jewish year: times, or 720, the days in two years; and half a time, or 180, the days in half
a year. Now, add these three numbers, 360, 720, 180; and the sum is 1260. Now see Daniel iv.
25, where the word "times" means years, and then a child may calculate these mystical numbers.

3.

V. 3.--While the nominal church, "the outer court and the holy city," would be "trodden under
foot," and the most eminent places would be filled with idolaters, infidels, hypocrites, and
mercenary spirits, and true Christians grievously oppressed, the Lord would preserve a faithful
few from defiling themselves with the prevailing abominations. These he claims and owns as
his "peculiar treasure,"--"my witnesses." These have found that it was "good for them to draw
near to God," when the multitude treacherously departed from him. The Lord Christ promises
to sustain them in the midst of all their tribulations. The duration of their special work
is the very same as that of the treading of the holy city, "a thousand two hundred and three
score days,"--1260 years. In attempting to fix the beginning of this period, Daniel and John
must be compared; both treat of the same events and dates, and this gives definiteness to the
interpretation. Daniel fixes these events to the fourth monarchy after it had been broken in
pieces, and the ten horns had arisen: (ch. vii. 23-25;) so that we have both the geography
and chronology determined by the prophets themselves. Hence it follows that we must date the
beginning of the 1260 years after the first four trumpets; for by these the western Roman empire
was dismembered or broken, that the ten horns might appear. Then the "little horn" of Daniel
arose after and among them, (ch. vii. 20, 24.) All reliable expositors agree that the "little
horn" is the papacy or the Romish church. This little horn is the special enemy of the "saints
of the Most High," and they are to be "given into his hand." (Dan. vii. 25.) The first four
trumpets subverted the Roman empire in the west in the latter part of the sixth century. This
event made way for the bishop of Rome, in process of time, to acquire a great accession of
ecclesiastical power. The civil and ecclesiastical rulers, equally unscrupulous and aspiring,
were at this period on terms of comparative intimacy, and occasionally disposed to reciprocate
good offices. Phocas, having waded through the blood of the citizens to supreme civil power,
in order to secure his position, declared Boniface III., bishop of Rome, head of the universal
church. This impious public act took place in the year 606. The pope became also a temporal
prince in 756. Now we cannot know with certainty which of these events, nor indeed whether
either of them, marks the period in time when the 1260 years began. Hence we must remain at
uncertainty as to the exact time when this most interesting period will end. Of all transactions
recorded in history, however, that between Phocas and Boniface appears most like "giving the
saints into the hand of the little horn." At this juncture in particular, church and state
conspire, as never before, to resist the authority of Jesus Christ the Mediator. Paul's "man
of sin" has been "revealed in his time." (2 Thess. ii. 6.) Paganism has been abolished by formal
edict throughout the Roman empire, and Christianity established as the recognised religion
of the commonwealth. That which "letted,"--hindered, that is, the pagan idolatry of the civil
state, is "taken out of the way;" and nominal Christianity takes its place. This combination
or alliance between church and state will be more clearly made known in the succeeding chapters
of this book. Mean while it is the immediate design of the "little open book," to give an epitome
or outline of this unholy confederacy in the first thirteen verses of this chapter. The treading
under foot of the holy city by the "Gentiles," furnishes occasion for the witnesses to appear
publicly against them. These pretended Christians, but real hypocrites, as will appear with
increasing evidence as we proceed, have usurped the rights of Messiah's crown, and grievously
oppressed his real disciples. Against these outrages on the prerogatives of Christ and the
rights of man, these witnesses lift their solemn protest. Their distinctive name, "witnesses,"
is familiar to every one who searches the Scriptures. (Isa. xliii. 10; Acts i. 8.) But witnesses
who love not their lives unto the death are distinguished by the name of martyrs. (Rev. ii.
13; Acts xxii. 20.)

God has had his witnesses in all ages since the fall of Adam, in defence of truth and holiness
against error and ungodliness; but the specific work these witnesses is to oppose the corruption
of his two ordinances of church and state during the specified period of 1260 years. The existence
of this complex system of civil and ecclesiastical tyranny and heresy, in the holy purpose
and sovereign providence of God, calls for the public and uncompromising opposition of the
two witnesses. We shall discover the two parties in more visible conflict hereafter; and tracing
the struggle to its issue, we shall find, that like the more general and lasting warfare between
the seed of the woman and that of the serpent, (Gen. iii. 15,) it is a "war of extermination."

These witnesses are distinguished as a part from the whole. All witnesses are not martyrs,
but these are such, (v. 7, ch. xx. 4.) And here we are constrained to dissent from the opinion
of some expositors, for whose sentiments we entertain profound respect. These "two witnesses"
are supposed by these eminent interpreters to "differ as much from the 144,000 sealed ones,
(ch. vii. 4,) as Elijah differed from the 7000 in Israel in his time;" whereas, we think the
144,000 and the two, are the same identical company. (See chapters vii. 4-8: xiv. 1; xx. 4.)
It is evident that they are the same party,--and the whole of the party, who are honored to
"reign with Christ a thousand years," (ch. xx. 4.)

They are two in number, because one witness is not sufficient in law, to establish any matter
in controversy. (Num. xxxv. 30; 2 Cor. xiii. 1.) They are a small number compared with their
opponents, (ch. xiii. 3.) Again, they are few, but sufficient to confront and confute their
two opponents, (ch. xiii. 1, 11.) And, finally, they are two, that they may be assimilated
to their predecessors.

Vs. 4-6.--"These are the two olive trees, and the two candlesticks," answerable to Joshua and
Zerubbabel, the representatives of a gospel ministry and a scriptural magistracy in their day,
as seen by the prophet Zechariah, (ch. iv. 14.) The official administrators of the divine ordinances
of church and state, require the oil of divine grace to qualify them for the discharge of their
responsible duties to God and man. (1 Tim. i. 2; Titus i. 4; Ps. lxxii. 1.) Thus were those
public servants of God and of his people qualified who "stood before the God of the earth,"
as Moses and Aaron in Egypt, Elijah and Elisha in Israel, to whom there is obvious allusion
in the special work of these witnesses. (2 Kings i. 10; 1 Kings xvii. 1; Exod. vii. 17.) "Fire
proceedeth out of their mouth," when from the scriptures they denounce just judgments upon
the impenitent enemies of him whom they represent. They "smite the earth with all plagues,"
when, in answer to their prayers, vengeance comes upon antichristian communities. (Luke xviii.
7, 8.) They "turn waters into blood," when through their effective agency, the votaries of
Antichrist are made the instruments of mutual destruction. And all this is made more clear
in the symbolic "vials," (ch. 16.) These witnesses "prophesy," not as being inspired, but because
they,--and they only, apply existing predictions to their appropriate objects, so far as they
receive light from Him who is "the light of the world."

They are "clothed in sack-cloth," because they sigh and cry for all the abominations of their
time,--subjected to oppression, and excluded from "kings' palaces,"--places of worldly honor,
power and emolument.

But the question is of great importance, and, to themselves in particular, of absorbing interest,--How
shall these witnesses be identified among mankind? For however few, humble, despised and persecuted,
even unto death; strange as it may seem, there are not wanting many to put forth a claim to
be identified with them! Assuming that these mystic witnesses are individual persons, the Papists
say, they are Enoch and Elijah, hereafter to appear on earth! By Protestants, John Huss and
Jerome.--Luther and Calvin, have been selected. Others suppose the Old and New Testaments,
with many other vague and groundless conjectures. The witnesses die; but the two prophets named
"were translated that they should not see death:" and the thought is preposterous that they
should be brought again from their glorious state of immortality and subjected to an ignominious
death. John Huss and Jerome of Prague did not prophesy 1260 years, nor have we the shadow of
a ground to believe that any of the human race shall ever prolong their days on earth to the
age of Methuselah. The two Testaments cannot die, for "the word of God liveth and abideth for
ever." (1 Pet. i. 23.) But it would be tedious and unprofitable to confute the various chimeras
which on this question have been entertained in the minds equally of the learned and the illiterate.
The like fanciful and diversified opinions have been, and still are, prevalent in relation
to what constitutes "the Antichrist." (1 John ii. 22.) Now, it is evident, even on a cursory
perusal of the Apocalypse; that the witnesses and their opponents are the principal parties
symbolized in the whole series of the seals, trumpets and vials. How then can any one attain
to a rational understanding of the manifold details, who remains "willingly ignorant" of the
principal characters in this grandest of all tragico-dramas, presented to man's view on the
stage of Jehovah's moral empire, to be contemplated for the whole period of 1260 years? The
prevailing ignorance, bewilderment and error, in the minds of most spectators of these moving
scenes, we are warranted to expect. (Dan. xii. 10.) For the present we define the witnesses
and Antichrist concisely thus:--The Witnesses are a competent number of Christians, who for
1260 years, insist upon the application of God's word to church and state; and who testify
against all communities who rebel against the Lord Christ. Such communities, in visible organization,
constitute THE ANTICHRIST, as will more fully appear in the thirteenth and seventeenth chapters,
where the two prominent parties are more formally presented.

Let us never lose sight of the fact, that these witnesses cease not to prophesy,--to apply
the scriptures, especially the prophetical parts of them, during the whole period of 1260 years;
that is, while they live. Authentic history supplies abundant evidence that such has been their
special work all along since the rise of the antichristian enemy. That enemy is but obscurely
mentioned,--not described in the "little book," the contents of which we have, as already said,
in this chapter, (vs. 1-13.) The character and achievements of the witnesses may be found in
the familiar histories of the Culdees and Lollards of Britain, the Waldenses of Piedmont, the
Bohemian Brethren; together with the more recent and successful reformers on the continent
of Europe and in the British Isles. Is it unnecessary to mention the names of those men of
renown,--Zwingle, Luther, Calvin, Knox, Henderson, etc.,--men "mighty in words and in deeds,"
whose influence on the great "family of nations," their very enemies have reluctantly attested?
The testimony of an enemy has ever been deemed weighty. The following is appropriate and decisive
from the polished pen of the historian of the "Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire:" "The
visible assemblies of the Paulicians, or Albigeois, were extirpated by fire and sword; and
the bleeding remnant escaped by flight, concealment, or catholic conformity. But the invincible
spirit which they had kindled still lived and breathed in the western world.--In the state,
in the church, and even in the cloister, a latent succession was preserved of the disciples
of St. Paul, who protested against the tyranny of Rome, embraced the Bible as the rule of faith,
and purified their creed from all the visions of the Gnostic theology. The struggles of Wickliff
in England, and of Huss in Bohemia, were premature and ineffectual: but the names of Zuinglius,
Luther and Calvin, are pronounced with gratitude as the deliverers of nations."[2]

Ever since the time of those eminent witnesses, the same testimony has been maintained. It
is not yet finished, the witnesses are yet alive, and the term of 1260 years is not expired.

Vs. 7-10.--In these verses we have described the death of the witnesses, as also the agent
mentioned, by whom the fatal stroke is given. As future occasion will occur for identifying
this bloody tyrant, ascertaining with precision his diabolical origin, here only hinted, his
crimes and his awful doom, it is premature to amplify in this place.

If the witnesses cannot be identified, neither can the time of their death be ascertained.
We find indeed among expositors as many vague notions relative to the time and the nature of
their death as in relation to their identity. These notions are unworthy of notice; for however
they might amuse, they cannot edify.

Four questions are suggested by these verses.--By whom; in what manner, when, and where are
the witnesses slain?

The first question is explicitly answered in the sacred text. The "beast," of hellish origin,
kills them. But it will afterwards appear that the beast is instigated to this relentless cruelty
by another agent of the devil. Again, as to the kind of death, we may in good measure learn
this from the kind of life. Now it is obvious that to give testimony, or "prophesy" during
the allotted time, constitutes their life. They live, that they may prophesy. Hence it is usual
to speak of silencing, as equivalent to slaying these witnesses. But this is not strictly correct.
Why? Because they have been hitherto "killed all the day long." (Ps. xliv. 22; Rom. viii. 36.)
Doubtless defection and apostacy do always accompany persecution; and thus the testimony of
such is silenced. But the enemy in this case is "drunken with the blood" of these witnesses;
and this phrase must be understood literally. Moreover, the enemy gets "blood to drink," because
of "shedding blood." (ch. xvi. 6; xvii. 6.) The death of the witnesses is therefore a literal
death, of course it will be also moral,--they will cease to prophesy.

Some have supposed the "three years, or days and a half," during which the witnesses lie dead
are the same as the 1260 days or years; because if these three and a half days be considered
as prophetical, and reduced to literal days, they will amount exactly to 1260. Such an interpretation,
however, is preposterous; simply because according to this hypothesis, they never lived at
all!--The absurdity is evident.

Having ascertained the nature of the death to which the witnesses are appointed by the Lord
of life, we now inquire as to the time of this mournful event. The text informs us that their
death is connected with the "finishing of their testimony." However the original may be translated,--when
they shall have finished,--when they shall be finishing,--or about to finish, affects not the
question as to time. While they live, their work is to prophesy, and their testimony is not
completed. Like their Master, to whose example they are conformed, their life and testimony
are finished together. These facts, briefly and obscurely hinted here, will be more satisfactorily
presented in the next, but especially in the twentieth chapter, (vs. 1-4.) But inasmuch as
many, if not most interpreters, have expressed the opinion that the witnesses are already slain,
the following arguments in the negative are submitted to the reader.

The 1260 years are not yet terminated, during which,--the whole of which time,--the witnesses
are to "prophesy," (v. 3.) Their testimony is yet continued, and sensibly felt by the wicked.
They still more or less "torment them that dwell on the earth," (v. 10.) Beyond the usual reproach
attached to their names and their work, there has been no general reviling and deriding of
them throughout Christendom, to render their memory infamous, (v. 9.)--No opprobrious epithets
such as, "These deceivers said, while they were yet alive," (Matt, xxvii. 63,) that so they
might be conformed to their Lord in his death. Nor, lastly, have "they that dwell upon the
earth" exulted as yet over these hated individuals, as no longer "hurtful to kings and provinces,"--although
there have been, often, partial but premature rejoicings by a part of the enemy. But although
from time to time, "some of them, have fallen, to try them, and to purge, and to make them
white" as predicted, (Dan. xi. 35;) yet the time of "making merry, sending gifts,"--is not
yet come.

While we believe, on the grounds adduced,--and much more might have been cited from the context,--that
the death of the witnesses is to be understood literally, we do not suppose that every individual
will be personally put to death. No, but as in the time of Elijah's banishment, or of our Saviour's
lying in the grave, there will be no public body or individual standard-bearer, to bear testimony
against the enemies of Jesus Christ, or boldly to assert and press his royal claims upon church
and state. In prospect of this dark time,--darker than the "dark ages," we may ask with Joshua,--"What
wilt thou do unto thy great name?" But though the witnesses die, the Faithful Witness lives,
(ch. i. 18.)

The place, where the witnesses lie dead is pointed out by three places well known in sacred
history, Egypt, Sodom and Jerusalem. But these are to be understood mystically. The place resembles
Egypt for idolatry and cruelty to the people of God; it is like Sodom for literal and spiritual
pollution; and Jerusalem, where our Lord was crucified afresh and put to open shame in the
persons of his slain witnesses. It follows of course,--that place is to be utterly destroyed;
having committed the crimes and contracted the guilt of all those unpardonable criminals. (Ps.
lxxiv. 13, 14; Ezek. xxxi. 18; Isa. xiii. 19; Luke xxi. 20.) For similar reasons, Babylon is
afterwards mentioned repeatedly as the place of this tragic event, this unpardonable crime,--the
slaying of the witnesses, (ch. xviii. 24.) It is to be specially noted here, that in ascertaining
the place of the death of these distinguished servants of Christ, our attention is directed
by the Holy Spirit to a "street" of the city. At present it is assumed that streets of the
city and horns of the beast substantially harmonize as symbols. Now look over the streets of
the great city: contemplate the horns of the beast: ascertain which is most guilty of persecution.
In estimating the relative degree of guilt, the degree of heavenly light against which the
criminal has rebelled is to be taken into the account. (John xv. 22; Matt. xi. 24.) In view
of these scriptural principles, and the actual condition of Christendom as portrayed in authentic
history, would the conjecture seem presumptuous, should we venture to designate--Great Britain?
There, for centuries, the witnesses have been most numerous, active, and pointed, in testifying
against encroachments on the crown-rights of Messiah. There also, lordly prelates, in close
alliance with a blasphemous horn of the beast, have often vied with the sworn vassals of the
"man of sin," in murdering the saints of God. "Therefore it is no great thing" if, throwing
off the mask of Protestantism, English prelacy, combining with Romish Jesuitism, should make
common cause with undisguised infidelity, in slaying the witnesses against their heaven-daring
rebellion. The signs of the present time, (1870,) render our conjecture not improbable. We
give it only as a conjecture; for in reference to events yet future,--as we believe that of
the death of the witnesses to be,--we may not presume to prophesy.--"Three days and a half"
is the limited period of their degradation; and this is three natural years and a half: for
the word "days" must be taken in the same sense as in v. 3; otherwise we fall into an inextricable
labyrinth of endless confusion. From all which it appears that "the triumphing of the wicked
is short." If "while the wicked is in power, and we wait upon God." we are called to "join
trembling with our mirth;" the pleasing prospect of the speedy and joyful resurrection of "these
slain," may inspire us with "a lively hope," and warrant us to join mirth with our trembling.

11. And they ascended up to heaven in a cloud; and their enemies beheld them.

Vs. 11, 12.--In these two verses, as in the preceding, the thoughtful reader will discern a
beautiful allusion in the history of these witnesses, to the death and life of our blessed
Master. "For if they have been planted together in the likeness of his death, they shall be
also in the likeness of his resurrection." Yes, they have communion with him in death and life,--in
grace and glory.

"The Spirit of life from God entered into them." That is, God will speedily raise up successors,
who, maintaining the very same principles, will be gloriously successful in putting down all
rule and authority and power," that had been in hostility to their Lord. (1 Cor. xv. 24, 25.
See Ezek. xxxvii. 11-14.) "This is the first resurrection," to be explained by the inspired
penman more fully hereafter, (ch. xx. 5.)--As Saul feared David, and Herod John Baptist, because
they were "just men and holy;" so were the wicked afraid when these witnesses arose; and, like
Shimei, they justly dread the "due reward of their deeds." At the time referred to, "the haters
of the Lord will feign submission."--The "great voice from heaven" inviting the witnesses to
ascend, and their actual ascent, is another allusion to Christ's exaltation. As when "he was
taken up, a cloud received him;" so here, "they ascended up to heaven in a cloud."

It has often been the cry of the antichristian multitude,--"The voice of the people is the
voice of God." This cry has been iterated and reiterated, in centuries past, like that of the
Ephesian worshippers of Diana; that thereby the testimony of the witnesses might be counteracted
and silenced. It has been only too often successful. But where did flattering demagogues and
haughty despots find the sentiment? They found it engraved on the moral constitution of man
by our beneficent Creator. They found it also transcribed on the pages of objective revelation,--the
Bible. But, like other moral and scriptural principles, it has been perverted and misapplied
by the perverse ingenuity of wicked men.--This "voice from heaven" is indeed the people's voice:
and it is legitimate, as coming from the people, because it is first the voice of God. The
"heaven" here mentioned is the seat of civil power,--"the ordinance of man." (1 Pet. ii. 13.)
In the times here contemplated,--millennial times,--the rights of men will be respected, predicated
upon the rights of God, and flowing from them as inseparable. In settling the point of title
to civil sovereignty, or the eligibility of any candidate for civil office, the principle enunciated
by Hushai the Archite will be found to be alone reliable:--"Whom the Lord and this people choose."
(2 Sam. xvi. 18.) Only let the Lord have the first choice of candidates for office in both
church and state, and society will be prosperous and happy. (Acts i. 23, 24; vi. 5.) The "great
voice" of the 12th verse, comes from "heaven," as the "great voices" of the 15th verse, announcing
the millennium.

13. And the same hour was there a great earthquake, and the tenth part of the city fell, and
in the earthquake were slain of men seven thousand: and the remnant were affrighted, and gave
glory to the God of heaven.

V. 13.--"The same hour" that the witnesses mark by their resurrection,--contemporaneously with
that joyful event, is "a great earthquake,"--a revolution, (ch. vi. 12.) "The tenth part of
the city fell." The city,--"Sodom." "Tenth part of the city,"--a "street," equivalent to "horn."
Some one of the "ten kingdoms" will secede from the antichristian confederacy, or imperial
dominion; "and the remnant,"--the other nine, dreading the Mediator's vengeance, will reluctantly
but speedily submit. (See ch. vi. 16, 17.)--In the "earthquake were slain of men (names, titles,)
seven thousand." By "names of men" to be slain,--that is, abolished in reorganized society,
we are to understand those "names of blasphemy" mentioned, (ch. xiii. 1,) hereafter to be explained.

We have now taken a very cursory view of the contents of the "little open book." Its place
is between the termination of the fourth, and the sounding of the seventh trumpet. In other
words, it gives an outline of the contest between the witnesses and Antichrist during 1260
years,--events running parallel in time, at least in part, with the first two woe-trumpets;
for it obviously anticipates also, the effects of the third and last woe.

This may be as suitable a place as any other, before proceeding to a consideration of the seventh
trumpet, to direct attention to the method which Infinite Wisdom has chosen, by which to reveal
to mankind the purposes of God in prophecy. He who alone "knows the end from the beginning,"--who
"from ancient times has declared the things that are not yet done," has told us plainly,--"I
have multiplied visions, and used similitudes, by the ministry (hand,) of the prophets." (Hosea
xii. 10.) Now since God has multiplied visions, we ought not to think it strange if the same
important events in providence be predicted by several, or by many of the prophets; or that
one and the same important event be foretold "at sundry times and in diverse manners" by the
same prophet. How often, and by how many prophets was the dispersion of the Jews foretold!--the
downfall of ancient cities, Babylon, Nineveh, Tyre!--Need we refer to the language of our Lord,
addressed to his disciples on the way to Emmaus?--"And beginning at Moses, and all the prophets,
he expounded unto them in all the Scriptures the things concerning himself." (Luke xxiv. 27.)
We may be sure that the things concerning Christ and the interests of his kingdom in this world,
are the theme of inspired prophets in the New Testament as well as in the old. Agreeably to
these views, we find Nebuchadnezzar's dream and Daniel's visions relate to the same objects
and events. What was more obscurely revealed in the monarch's dream, is rendered more intelligible
by various symbols in Daniel's first vision. (Dan. ii. 36-45; vii. 17-27.) But in the next,
the eighth chapter, Daniel is favored with still clearer information relative to what he had
already seen in vision; and in the eleventh chapter, his attention is called to the most obscure,
but most interesting parts of his former visions; and, after all, the "vision is sealed," so
that he sees not "the end of these things." (ch. xii. 8, 9.) "I heard, but I understood not,"
(1 Pet. i. 10, 11.)

In this book, styled Apocalypse, or Revelation, we are told in the first verse, that the Lord
Christ "signified,"--made known by signs, to his servant John the things that were to come
to pass. We have thus far seen that the customary method has been pursued in using signs, symbols
or emblems. Henceforth we will find "multiplied visions" employed, more clearly to illustrate
events which have already passed under review, but of which we could see little more than a
profile:--"men, as trees walking."

14.

Vs. 14, 15.--"The third wo cometh quickly,"--the time elapsing since the end of the second,
is not to be so long as that intervening between the first two woes.--The first wo is thought
to have begun about the year 612, and continuing by the Saracenic conquests about 150 years,
to have terminated in 762. The second woe-trumpet, it is alleged, sounded about 1281, and continuing
for 391 years,--the period of the ravages by the Euphratean horsemen, ended about 1672. The
destructive influence, however, of these two judgments, may be considered as reaching to the
time of the third woe, the one which is to demolish the whole antichristian fabric.

Many eminent expositors,[3] in the early part of the present century, while the first Napoleon
was waging successful war with the other powers of Europe, expressed their belief with much
confidence, that the seventh angel had begun to sound. They were evidently mistaken. Christendom
will not fail to hear the voice of the third woe. It may be so that an individual may "not
be conscious of having an interest inconsistent with fidelity to the Scriptures," while political
"bias" may in fact so influence "sentiments, as to render conviction less dependent upon evidence
than upon his wishes." And we doubt not that misapprehensions and misinterpretation of "the
other scriptures," are to be attributed to this cause, insensibly influencing the minds and
hearts of learned and godly men, as well as in their expositions of the Apocalypse. Indeed
the misapplying of God's word, precept and prophecy, to political and ecclesiastical organizations,
has been the principal means of combining and continuing the antichristian apostacy. Thus it
is precisely, that the great adversary has been successful, as "an angel of light."

"The little book" has been shown to contain such extensive and important events as to justify
the solemnity accompanying its delivery to the apostle.--He now resumes the subject which had
been interrupted at the close of the ninth chapter.--The "great voices in heaven" represent
the expressions of joy by the saints on hearing the voice of the last of the trumpets, as assuring
them of the happy change in the moral condition of the world, which they had been warranted
to expect by God's "servants the prophets" from the days of old, (ch. x. 7.) The great, the
universal change consists in this:--"The kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of
our Lord and of his Christ." The English supplement,--"the kingdoms," is justified and required,
equally by the sense and the laws of syntax: and he is a deceiver, if a scholar, who insists
upon any other, to supply the ellipsis. Indeed, the omission of similar supplements, has occasioned
needless obscurity to the unlearned in other parts of this book. (See chs. xix. 10; xxii. 9.)
The greatest of all revolutions consists in restoring church and state to their scriptural
foundation,--transferring both from allegiance to "the god of this world," (Matt. iv. 8; Luke
iv. 5, 6;) to their rightful owner,--"the Lord and his Anointed." (Ps. ii. 2, 8.) When this
desirable epoch arrives, for which the persecuted witnesses have long and fervently prayed,
(ch. vi. 10,) gospel ministers and Christian magistrates will seek to do the will, and aim
at the glory of God.--It is painful and pitiable to hear learned and pious men often pray,--"That
the kingdoms of this world may soon become the kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ."
This is to "ask amiss,"--to miss the promise; for no such promise is on record. The groundless
conception confounds the revealed distinctions in the Godhead,--the Father with the Mediator;
and it would subvert Jehovah's moral empire, annihilating the eternal principle of representative
identification! But those good men "mean not so, neither do their hearts think so." They ought,
however, to be more careful and diligent in "searching the Scriptures."--If the scriptural
significance of this joyful announcement "in heaven" were better understood by gospel ministers
generally, a chief barrier would be removed, which now obstructs the advent of the millennium.
Would they but cease, their hearers might more readily cease, to "wonder after the beast."
But we may not anticipate.

"He, (Christ,) shall reign for ever and ever." When the seventh trumpet, the third woe, shall
have accomplished its object, in the utter destruction of immoral power, and the 1260 years
shall have come to an end, no other successful combination shall ever again be permitted to
assail and harass the city of the Lord:--"of his government there shall be no end." (Dan. vii.
27.) "All dominions shall serve and obey him." The final enterprise of Gog and Magog shall
not succeed, (ch, xx.

Vs. 16-18.--These verses give us a glimpse of the times following the last woe till the end
of the world. The "elders," the representatives,--not of the ministry, as prelates dream, but
of the collective body of God's people, now that they are emancipated from a longer and more
cruel bondage than that of their fathers in the literal Egypt, "give thanks to God" for the
display of his "great power" in their deliverance. Many times had he made bare his holy arm
in past ages on behalf of his people: but this is in their eyes the most signal display of
his power. "Thou hast taken to thee thy great power."--He now exercises his power over the
nations, which was his before; their "anger" in the time of their rebellion is now repressed,--Messiah's
"wrath is come," heavier wrath than that which fell upon Rome pagan: (ch. vi. 16, 17.) Then
follows an intimation of the final judgment, and suitable "rewards." Our curiosity is excited
here, but not gratified; but while left in suspense, we may, with Daniel and the virgin Mary,--"keep
these things in our heart." (Dan. vii. 28; Luke ii. 19.) Farther light will be given, (ch. xx.

V. 19.--The inspired books of the Bible were divided into chapters, verses and other parts,
for the convenience of reference. But those who performed this useful service were imperfect
like ourselves, and therefore we are at liberty to differ from them in our arrangement. Now
it seems evident that the 18th verse closes this chapter with a concise account of the ending
of the last woe. But the last woe reaches to the final consummation of all things as we have
already seen: it follows that the nineteenth verse must introduce a new subject. Similar mistakes
may be seen in numerous instances elsewhere in our Bibles.

But although a new vision is presented in the twelfth chapter, the two principal parties delineated
in the eleventh, engage the apostle's attention. And as preparatory to future scenes, "the
temple of God was opened in heaven." "Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath shined."
Before the following scene of warfare, John is favored with a view of the "ark of the testament,"--a
symbol of the covenant of grace, which shall continue to be administered in the worst of times;
and the opposition to which, in its external dispensation, is emblematically set forth by "lightnings,"--as
well as the tokens of Jehovah's presence and avenging judgments: for these awful symbols, taken
from fearful convulsions in nature, are usually indicative of the tremendous judgments of God.

CHAPTER XII.

1.

