             3. The provision of church building and equipment within a
             reasonable time adequate to the needs of the community at its
             present stage of development.

     The occupation of a field by any denomination after conference
     and agreement shall give to that denomination the right to the
     field and the responsibility for its Christian culture until
     such changes in population shall make it desirable that it be
     shared with one or more other denominations.

     If the above conference shall fail to reach agreement, it shall
     be the privilege of the aggrieved party to make appeal to its
     respective board or society, which board or society shall
     confer with the sister board or society concerned, and these
     boards may then request the superintendents of the
     denominations concerned for the field in question to make
     personal investigation and to report their findings to their
     respective boards. If they agree, the boards shall take action
     in accordance therewith. If they disagree, the matter shall be
     referred to the boards for such action as their wisdom may
     determine, which action shall be communicated to the churches
     concerned with whatever ecclesiastical or moral force their
     decision may command.

     SECOND. In communities already occupied by two or more
     denominations, in case any church or mission station shall
     consider itself aggrieved in its relations to sister churches,
     the course of procedure outlined in Section I shall likewise be
     followed.

     There shall be friendly conference in the spirit of the Great
     Head of the church and recourse be had, when necessary, to the
     local or national missionary authorities, whose findings
     properly communicated shall have behind them the moral force of
     this Council.

     Where any denomination occupies a district by groupings of
     mission stations under one missionary the same principles shall
     apply and the same method of adjusting differences shall be
     followed.

     THIRD. "Overchurched Communities." Not infrequently the promise
     of new towns fails of fulfillment, with the result that there
     are more church organizations than in any economic view should
     be maintained--at least out of missionary funds. In many
     sections of the country also, because of the marked shift of
     population from agricultural communities to urban centers,
     overchurching has weakened all denominations to the point where
     missionary effort is necessary to restore again a wholesome
     religious life. Regardless of the cause of overchurching,
     whether from the undue optimism of the newer sections of the
     country or changed conditions in the older, or other
     conditions, the problem of overchurching must be dealt with in
     the true spirit of comity and cooperation for the sake of the
     common good.

         a. The principle should be established that one Protestant
         church is adequate for each community of less than 1,500
         inhabitants; and that efforts should be made to bring about
         interdenominational readjustment to this end in all sections of
         the country where economic and social conditions have become
         sufficiently established to make improbable any marked or rapid
         increase in population within a short time.

         b. In communities of over 1,500 inhabitants there should not be
         more than one Protestant church to every 1,000 population.

         c. In communities of over 1,500 inhabitants and of less than
         5,000, plans should be worked out whereby the different
         denominations concerned shall cooperate in providing adequate
         building and equipment for community service. Such building
         should be strategically located and should be controlled by a
         governing board made up of representatives, the number of whom
         from each denomination shall be determined by the
         constituency of that denomination in its proportion to the
         total Protestant or cooperating population. The rules for the
         control of the activities of such cooperative community service
         should respect the standards of the respective denominations.
         The support of such community service should be apportioned to
         the respective denominations concerned to be raised in their
         respective budgets in proportion to their respective
         representation on the governing board.

         d. It shall be the duty of the denomination to which
         responsibility shall have been allocated to provide the
         best-trained leadership and the best service of which it is
         capable out of consideration to the other denominations that
         have intrusted the spiritual welfare of their membership to
         this group.

         e. In determining what denomination has prime responsibility in
         a given community of under 1,500 inhabitants the following
         shall be considered.

             1. Present resident membership and constituency. The
             organization having the largest bona fide membership and
             constituency should be considered as having prime
             responsibility, from this point of view.

             2. The residence of the pastor. In general, the pastor's
             residence should be given larger weight than membership unless
             the denomination having prime responsibility according to (1)
             stands ready to provide a pastor's residence in the community
             where this denomination has prime responsibility from the
             point of view of membership.

             3. The location of the church building. The denomination that
             has a building located in a village center should be given
             precedence over the denomination that has its headquarters in
             the open country near a village. The building of the village
             church should be suitably located for adequate community
             service; that is, near the center of the village.

             4. As between the village and the open country church, the
             village church should be given prime consideration in putting
             on an aggressive community program.

             5. No missionary or "sustentation" support should be given by
             any cooperating denomination to a pastor in an overchurched
             community nor to a "circuit" involving interdenominational
             competition until after an adjustment is made either by
             reorganization of the circuit or an agreement has been reached
             by the missionary and administrative bodies of the respective
             denominations concerned as to an allocation of such missionary
             responsibility.

             6. Church extension aid should not be given toward the
             rebuilding of churches in these communities until after
             allocation of responsibility has been effected.

             7. If after due effort to secure satisfactory adjustment of
             relationships according to the plans suggested in First above,
             and by such further arbitration or other means as may be
             adopted by the Home Missions Council or its constituent
             bodies, then the denomination seeking such adjustment shall
             be at liberty to develop its own work as it may see fit,
             standing ready, however, to make agreement with competing
             bodies whenever they wish to renew negotiations.

