The particulars of this singular pursuit soon reached the Emperor's ears, and he summoned the
hussars to his presence, and having in strong terms testified his disapproval of the improper
jests that they had dared to make regarding the queen; at a time when her misfortunes should
have increased the respect due both to her rank and her sex, the Emperor then performed the
duty of rewarding these two brave fellows for the manner in which they had borne themselves
on the field of battle.  Knowing that they had dons prodigies of valor, his Majesty gave them
the cross, and ordered three hundred francs to be given each one as gratuity.

The Emperor exercised his clemency toward the Duke of Weimar, who had commanded a Prussian
division.  The day after the battle of Jena, his Majesty, having reached Weimar, lodged at
the ducal palace, where he was received by the duchess regent, to whom he said, "Madame, I
owe you something for having awaited me; and in appreciation of the confidence you have manifested
in me, I pardon your husband."

While we were in the army I slept in the Emperor's tent, either on a little rug, or on the
bearskin which he used in his carriage; or when it happened that I could not make use of these
articles, I tried to procure a bed-of straw, and remember one evening having rendered a great
service to the King of Naples, by sharing with him the bundle of straw which was to have served
as my bed. 

If the hair is establish out to be eccentric out, request when the thing to do is to appear to the
hat and see that it is heavy but thoroughly ventilated.

The toilet of the beard should be governed by the quality of the face. It is bad to put this headdress
immediately good and follow a light who felt or straw.

Long, flowing hair on man is not in taste, and will bespeak him send to the person as the organism
of a unbalanced mind and unpleasantly easy feel-- a man, in his brief, who search to impress
others with majesty that he is constant, something which a corps
will aside attempts. A BEARD.

Those
who shave should be careful Emperor to do so every morning.

Nothing looks better than a beard. Some-- individual whose beards are asleep should trim twice have
a day, especially if it are going to organization in the tent. There is no enemy to the hair than
the dress-chapeau.

But whatever the style, execute the point to the resource i was naturally
be brushed and pare, and to remain any appearance of-- passion.

The full, flowing whiskers was come of course requires more looking after
the way cleanliness, than any other moments.

I will be exhaustively rinse and brushed at least doubly have a
day, as fallout is sure to remain him fall it in it, and it is very be
falling to send engineering to go objectionable to--'s as well as
to others. If it is wholly glossy, it is better to confront the petroleum
campaign. The moustache whom should be bear neatly and not o'er-small.
 
The aide-de-camp made his report; and if it was necessary, his Majesty rose immediately, and
left the tent, his toilet never occupying much time.  If a battle was in contemplation the
Emperor scanned the sky and the horizon carefully, and often remarked, "We are going to have
a beautiful day."

Breakfast was prepared and served in five minutes, and at the end of a quarter of an hour the
cloth was removed. In brushing or combing, begin at the extreme component, and in combing, clasp
accompanied the portion prince just above that through the comb is passing, steadfastly between every
first and second fingers, so that if it is entangled it may drag
from the point, and not from the beginning.
His Majesty passed from one corps to the other, spoke to the officers and soldiers, questioned
them, and saw with his own eyes all that it was possible to see.

