The wind blowing away from the shore, as may it always blow when friend of mine nears that
coast, we determined to weigh anchor or slip cable without further loss of time, feeling assured
that by the telegraph reports some one would be on the look-out for us, and that the Aquidneck
would be towed into port if the worst should happen--if the rest of her crew went down. Three
of us weighed one anchor, with its ninety fathoms of chain, the other had parted on the windlass
in the gale. The bark's prow was now turned toward Montevideo, the place we had so recently
sailed from, full of hope and pleasant anticipation; and here we were, dejected and filled
with misery, some of our number already gone on that voyage which somehow seems so far away.

At Montevideo, things were better. They did take my remaining sick men out of the vessel, after
two days' delay; my agent procuring a tug, which towed them in the ship's boat three hundred
fathoms astern. In this way they were taken to Flores Island, where, days and days before,
they had been refused admittance! They were accompanied this time by an order from the governor
of Montevideo, and at last were taken in. Two of the cases were, by this time, in the favourable
change. But the poor old cook, who stood faithfully by me, and would not desert his old shipmates,
going with them to the Island to care for them to the last, took the dread disease, died of
it, and was there buried, not far from where he himself had buried his friend José, a short
time before. The death of this faithful man occurred on the day that the bark finally sailed
seaward, by the Island. She was in sight from the hospital window when his phantom ship, that
put out, carried him over the bar! His widow, at Paranagua, I was told, on learning the fate
of her husband, died of grief.

The work of disinfecting the vessel, at Montevideo, after the sick were removed, was a source
of speculation that was most elaborately carried on. Demijohns of carbolic acid were put on
board, by the dozen, at $3.00 per demijohn, all diluted ready for use; and a guardo was put
on board to use it up, which he did religiously over his own precious self, in my after-cabin,
as far from the end of the ship where the danger was as he could get. Some one else disinfected
el proa, not he! Abundant as the stuff was, I had to look sharp for enough to wash out forward
while aft it was knee-deep almost, at three dollars a jar! The harpy that alighted on deck
at Maldonado sent in his bill for one hundred dollars--I paid eighty.

The cost to me of all this trouble in money paid out, irrelevantly to mention, was over a thousand
dollars. What it cost me in health and mental anxiety cannot be estimated by such value. Still,
I was not the greatest sufferer. My hardest task was to come, you will believe, at the gathering
up of the trinkets and other purchases which the crew had made, thoughtful of wife and child
at home. All had to be burned, or spoiled with carbolic acid! A hat for the little boy here,
a pair of boots for his mamma there, and many things for the familia all around--all had to
be destroyed!

FOOTNOTES:

[2] In our discourse, Yahoo was spoken, but I write it in English because many of my readers
would not understand the original. The signals that we used were made by universal code symbols.
For example, two flags hoisted representing "P" "D" signified "want (or wants) immediate medical
assistance." And so on, by hoists of two, three or four flags representing the consonants,
our wants and wishes could be made known, each possessing the key to the code.

Our commercial code of signals is so invented and arranged that no matter what tongues may
meet, perhaps those utterly incomprehensible by word of mouth, yet by these signs communications
may be carried on with great facility. The whole system is so beautifully simple that a child
of ordinary intelligence can understand it. Even the Yahoos were made to comprehend--when not
colour-blind. And, lest they should forget their lesson, a gunboat is sent out every year or
two, to fire it into them with cannon.

[3] This cachazza is said to be death to microbes, or even to larger worms; it will kill anything,
in fact, except a Yahoo!

After all this sad trouble was over, a new crew was shipped, and the Aquidneck's prow again
turned seaward. Passing out by Flores, soon after, we observed the coast-guard searching, I
learned, for a supposed sunken bark, which had appeared between squalls in the late gale with
signals of distress set. I was satisfied from the account that it was our bark which they had
seen in the gale, and the supposed flags were our tattered sails, what there was left of them,
streaming in the storm. But we did not discourage the search, as it could do no harm, and I
thought that they might perhaps find something else worth knowing about. This was the day,
as I have said, on which my faithful cook died, while the bark was in sight from the window
of his sick ward. It was a bright, fine day to us. We cannot say that it was otherwise than
bright to him.

Breathing once more the fresh air of the sea, we set all sail for Paranagua, passing the lights
on the coast to leave them flickering on the horizon, then soon out of sight. Fine weather
prevailed, but with much head wind; still we progressed, and rarely a day passed but something
of the distance toward our port was gained. One day, however, coming to an island, one that
was inhabited only by birds, we came to a stand, as if it were impossible to go farther on
the voyage; a spell seemed to hang over us. I recognized the place as one that I knew well;
a very dear friend had stood by me on deck, looking at this island, some years before. It was
the last land that my friend ever saw. I would fain have sailed around it now, but a puff of
fair wind coming sent us on our course for the time some leagues beyond. At sunset, though,
this wind went down, and with the current we drifted back so much that by the next day we were
farther off on the other side. However, fair wind coming again, we passed up inside, making
thus the circuit of the island at last.

More or less favourable winds thenceforth filled our sails, till at last our destined port
was gained.

The little town of Antonina, where my wife and Garfield had remained over during this voyage,
twelve miles up the bay from Paranagua, soon after our arrival, was made alive with the noise
of children marching to children's own music, my "Yawcob" heading the band with a brand-new
ninety-cent organ, the most envied fellow of the whole crowd. Sorrows of the past took flight,
or were locked in the closet at home, the fittest place for past misfortunes.

A truly hard voyage for us all was that to Montevideo! The survivors reached home after a while.
Their features were terribly marked and disfigured; so much so that I did not know them till
they accosted me when we met.

I look back with pleasure to the good character of my Brazilian sailors, regretting the more
their hard luck and sad fate! We may meet again! Quien sabe!

Getting over all this sad business as best we could, we entered on the next venture, which
was to purchase and load a cargo of the famous Brazilian wood. The Aquidneck was shifted to
an arm of the bay, where she was moored under the lee of a virgin forest, twenty minutes' canoe
ride from the village of Guarakasava, where she soon began to load.

The timber of this country, generally very heavy, is nevertheless hauled by hand to the water,
where, lashed to canoes, it is floated to the ship.

These canoes, formed sometimes from mammoth trees, skilfully shaped and dug out with care,
are at once the carriage and cariole of the family to the citio, or the rice to mill. Roads
are hardly known where the canoe is available; men, women, and children are consequently alike,
skilled in the art of canoeing to perfection, almost. There are no carriages to speak of in
such places, even a saddle horse about the waterfront is a rara avis. There was, indeed, one
horse at Guarakasava--the owner of it was very conspicuous.

The family canoe just spoken of, has the capacity, often, of several tons, is handsomely decorated
with carvings along the topsides, and is painted, as the "Geordie" would say, "in none o' your
gaudy colours, but in good plain red or blue"--sometimes, however, they are painted green.

The cost of these handsome canoes are, say, from $250 down in price and size, from the grand
turnout to the one-man craft which may be purchased for five milreis ($2.50).

From the greatest to the smallest they are cared for with almost an affectionate care, and
are made to last many years.

One thing else which even the poorest Brazilian thinks much of is his affectionate wife who
literally and figuratively is often in the same boat with her husband, pulling against the
stream. Family ties are strong in Brazil and the sweet flower of friendship thrives in its
sunny clime. The system of land and sea breezes prevail on the coast from Cape Frio to Saint
Catherine with great regularity most of the year; the sail is therefore used to good advantage
by the almost amphibious inhabitants along the coast who love the water and take to it like
ducks and natural born sailors.

The wind falling light they propel their canoes by paddle or long pole with equal facility.
The occupants standing, in the smaller ones, force them along at a great speed. The larger
ones, when the wind does not serve, are pulled by banks of oars which are fastened to stout
pegs in the gunwail with grummits, that fit loosely over the oars so as to allow them free
play in the hand of the waterman.

Curling the water with fine, shapely prows as they dart over the smooth waters of the bays
and rivers, these canoes present a picture of unrivalled skill and grace.

I find the following entry in my diary made near the close of transactions at Guarakasava which
in the truthful word of an historian I am bound to record, if only to show my prevailing high
opinion of the natives while I was among them:--

                                             GUARAKASAVA, Dec. 20th.

     Heretofore I have doted on native Brazilian honesty as well as
     national seamanship and skill in canoes but my dream of a perfect
     paradise is now unsettled forever. I find, alas! that even here the
     fall of Adam is felt: Taking in some long poles to-day the negro
     tallyman persisted in counting twice the same pole. When the first
     end entered the port it was "umo" (one); when the last end
     disappeared into the ship he would sing out "does" (two).

I had no serious difficulty over the matter, but left Guarakasava with that hurt feeling which
comes of being over persuaded that one and one make four.

We spent Christmas of 1887 at Guarakasava. The bark was loaded soon after, and when proceeding
across the bay, where currents and wind caught her foul near a dangerous sand bar, she misstayed
and went on the strand. The anchor was let go to club her. It wouldn't hold in the treacherous
sands; so she dragged and stranded broadside on, where, open to the sea, a strong swell came
in that raked her fore and aft for three days, the waves dashing over her groaning hull the
while till at last her back was broke and--why not add heart as well! for she lay now undone.
After twenty-five years of good service the Aquidneck here ended her days!

I had myself carried load on load, but alas! I could not carry a mountain; and was now at the
end where my best skill and energy could not avail. What was to be done? What could be done?
We had indeed the appearance of shipwrecked people, away, too, from home.

This was no time to weep, for the lives of all the crew were saved; neither was it a time to
laugh, for our loss was great.

But the sea calmed down, and I sold the wreck, which floated off at the end of the storm. And
after paying the crew their wages out of the proceeds had a moiety left for myself and family--a
small sum.

Then I began to look about for the future, and for means of escape from exile. The crew (foreign)
found shipping for Montevideo, where they had joined the Aquidneck, in lieu of the stricken
Brazilian sailors. But for myself and family this outlet was hardly available, even if we had
cared to go farther from home,--which was the least of our thoughts; and there were no vessels
coming our way.

CHAPTER IX

     The building of the Liberdade.

     Away, away, no cloud is lowering o'er us
     Freely now we stem the wave;
     Hoist, hoist all sail, before us
     Hope's beacon shines to cheer the brave.
                                          --Masaniello.

When all had been saved from the wreck that was worth saving, or that could be saved, we found
ourselves still in the possession of some goods soon to become of great value to us, especially
my compass and charts which, though much damaged, were yet serviceable and suggested practical
usefulness; and the chronometer being found intact, my course was no longer undecided, my wife
and sons agreeing with what I thought best.

The plan, in a word, was this: We could not beg our way, neither would we sit idle among the
natives. We found that it would require more courage to remain in the far-off country than
to return home in a boat, which then we concluded to build and for that purpose.[4]

My son Victor, with much pride and sympathy, entered heartily into the plan, which promised
a speedy return home. He bent his energies in a practical direction, working on the boat like
an old builder.

Before entering on the project, however, all responsibilities were considered. Swift ocean
currents around capes and coral reefs were taken into account; and above all else to be called
dangerous we knew would be the fierce tropical storms which surely we would encounter.

But a boat should be built stout and strong, we all said, one in which we should not be afraid
to trust our lives even in the storm.

And with the advantage of experience in ships and boats of various sizes and in many seas,
I turned to the work of constructing, according to my judgment and means, a craft which would
be best adapted to all weathers and all circumstances. My family with sympathetic strength
pulling hard in the same direction.

Seaworthiness was to be the first and most prominent feature in our microscopic ship; next
to this good quality she should sail well; at least before free winds. We counted on favourable
winds; and so they were experienced the greater part of the voyage that soon followed.

Long exposures and many and severe disappointments by this time, I found, had told on health
and nerve, through long quarantines, expensive fumigations, and ruinous doctors' visits, which
had swept my dollars into hands other than mine. However, with still a "shot in the locker,"
and with some feelings of our own in the matter of how we should get home, I say, we set to
work with tools saved from the wreck--a meagre kit--and soon found ourselves in command of
another ship, which I will describe the building of, also the dimensions and the model and
rig, first naming the tools with which it was made.

To begin with, we had an axe, an adze, and two saws, one ½inch auger, one 6/8 and one 3/8 auger-bit;
two large sail-needles, which we converted into nailing bits; one roper, that answered for
a punch; and, most precious of all, a file that we found in an old sail-bag washed up on the
beach. A square we readily made. Two splints of bamboo wood served as compasses. Charcoal,
pounded as fine as flour and mixed in water, took the place of chalk for the line; the latter
we had on hand. In cases where holes larger than the 6/8 bit were required, a piece of small
jack-stay iron was heated, and with this we could burn a hole to any size required. So we had,
after all, quite a kit to go on with. Clamps, such as are used by boat builders, we had not,
but made substitutes from the crooked guava tree and from massaranduba wood.

Trees from the neighbouring forest were felled when the timber from the wrecked cargo would
not answer. Some of these woods that we sought for special purposes had queer sounding names,
such as arregebah, guanandee, batetenandinglastampai, etc. This latter we did not use the saw
upon at all, it being very hard, but hewed it with the axe, bearing in mind that we had but
one file, whereas for the edged tools we had but to go down to a brook hard by to find stones
in abundance suitable to sharpen them on.

The many hindrances encountered in the building of the boat will not be recounted here. Among
the least was a jungle fever, from which we suffered considerably. But all that and all other
obstacles vanished at last, or became less, before a new energy which grew apace with the boat,
and the building of the craft went rapidly forward. There was no short day system, but we rested
on the Sabbath, or surveyed what we had done through the week, and made calculations of what
and how to strike on the coming week.

The unskilled part of the labour, such as sawing the cedar planks, of which she was mostly
made, was done by the natives, who saw in a rough fashion, always leaving much planing and
straightening to be done, in order to adjust the timber to a suitable shape. The planks for
the bottom were of ironwood, 1¼ X 10 inches. For the sides and top red cedar was used, each
plank, with the exception of two, reaching the whole length of the boat. This arrangement of
exceedingly heavy wood in the bottom, and the light on top, contributed much to the stability
of the craft.

The ironwood was heavy as stone, while the cedar, being light and elastic, lent buoyancy and
suppleness, all that we could wish for.

The fastenings we gathered up in various places, some from the bulwarks of the wreck, some
from the hinges of doors and skylights, and some were made from the ship's metal sheathing,
which the natives melted and cast into nails. Pure copper nails, also, were procured from the
natives, some ten kilos, for which I paid in copper coins, at the rate of two kilos of coin
for one kilo of nails. The same kind of coins, called dumps, cut into diamond-shaped pieces,
with holes punched through them, entered into the fastenings as burrs for the nails. A number
of small eyebolts from the spanker-boom of the wreck were turned to account for lashing bolts
in the deck of the new vessel. The nails, when too long, were cut to the required length, taking
care that the ends which were cut off should not be wasted, but remelted, along with the metal
sheathing, into other nails.

Some carriage bolts, with nuts, which I found in the country, came in very handy; these I adjusted
to the required length, when too long, by slipping on blocks of wood of the required thickness
to take up the surplus length, putting the block, of course, on the inside, and counter-sinking
the nut flush with the planks on the outside; then screwing from the inside outward, they were
drawn together, and there held as in a vice, the planks being put together "lap-streak" fashion,
which without doubt is the strongest way to build a boat.

These screw-bolts, seventy in number, as well as the copper nails, cost us dearly, but wooden
pegs, with which also she was fastened, cost only the labour of being made. The lashings, too,
that we used here and there about the frame of the cabin, cost next to nothing, being made
from the fibrous bark of trees, which could be had in abundance by the stripping of it off.
So, taking it by and large, our materials were not expensive, the principal item being the
timber, which cost about three cents per superficial foot, sawed or hewed. Rosewood, ironwood,
cedar or mahogany, were all about the same price and very little in advance of common wood;
so of course we selected always the best, the labour of shaping being least, sometimes, where
the best materials were used.

These various timbers and fastenings, put together as best we could shape and join them, made
a craft sufficiently strong and seaworthy to withstand all the bufferings on the main upon
which, in due course, she was launched.

The hull being completed, by various other contrivances and makeshifts in which, sometimes,
the "wooden blacksmith" was called in to assist, and the mother of invention also lending a
hand, fixtures were made which served as well on the voyage as though made in a dockyard and
at great cost.

My builders baulked at nothing, and on the 13th day of May, the day on which the slaves of
Brazil were set free, our craft was launched, and was named Liberdade (Liberty).

Her dimensions being--35 feet in length over all, 7½ feet breadth of beam, and 3 feet depth
of hold. Who shall say that she was not large enough?

Her model I got from my recollections of Cape Ann dories and from a photo of a very elegant
Japanese sampan which I had before me on the spot, so, as it might be expected, when finished
she resembled both types of vessel in some degree.

Her rig was the Chinese sampan style, which is, I consider, the most convenient boat rig in
the whole world.

This was the boat, or canoe I prefer to call it, in which we purposed to sail for North America
and home. Each one had been busy during the construction and past misfortunes had all been
forgotten. Madam had made the sails--and very good sails they were, too!

Victor, the carpenter, ropemaker, and general roustabout had performed his part. Our little
man, Garfield, too, had found employment in holding the hammer to clinch the nails and giving
much advice on the coming voyage. All were busy, I say, and no one had given a thought of what
we were about to encounter from the port officials farther up the coast; it was pretended by
them that a passport could not be granted to so small a craft to go on so long a voyage as
the contemplated one to North America.

Then fever returned to the writer and the constructor of the little craft, and I was forced
to go to bed, remaining there three days. Finally, it came to my mind that in part of a medicine
chest, which had been saved from the wreck, was stored some arsenicum, I think it is called.
Of this I took several doses (small ones at first, you may be sure), and the good effect of
the deadly poison on the malaria in my system was soon felt trickling through my veins. Increasing
the doses somewhat, I could perceive the beneficial effect hour by hour, and in a few days
I had quite recovered from the malady. Absurd as it was to have the judgment of sailors set
on by pollywog navigators, we had still to submit, the pollywogs being numerous.

About this time--as the astrologers say--a messenger came down from the Alfandega (Custom House),
asking me to repair thither at midday on the morrow. This filled me with alarm. True, the messenger
has delivered his message in the politest possible manner, but that signified nothing, since
Brazilians are always polite. This thing, small as it seems now, came near sending me back
to the fever.

What had I done?

I went up next day, after having nightmare badly all night, prepared to say that I wouldn't
do it again! The kind administrator I found, upon presenting myself at his office, had no fault
to charge me with; but had a good word, instead. "The little Liberdade," he observed, had attracted
the notice of his people and his own curiosity, as being "a handsome and well-built craft."
This and many other flattering expressions were vented, at which I affected surprise, but secretly
said, "I think you are right, sir, and you have good taste, too, if you are a customs officer."

The drift of this flattery, to make a long story short, was to have me build a boat for the
Alfandega, or, his government not allowing money to build new--pointing to one which certainly
would require new keel, planks, ribs, stem, and stern-post--"could I not repair one?"

To this proposition I begged time to consider. Flattering as the officer's words were, and
backed by the offer of liberal pay, so long as the boat could be "repaired," I still had no
mind to remain in the hot country, and risk getting the fever again. But there was the old
hitch to be gotten over; namely, the passport, on which, we thought, depended our sailing.

However, to expedite matters, a fishing licence was hit upon, and I wondered why I had not
thought of that before, having been, once upon a time, a fisherman myself. Heading thence on
a new diplomatic course, I commenced to fit ostensibly for a fishing voyage. To this end, a
fishing net was made, which would be a good thing to have, anyway. Then hooks and lines were
rigged and a cable made. This cable, or rope, was formed from vines that grow very long on
the sand-banks just above tide water, several of which twisted together make a very serviceable
rope, then being light and elastic, it is especially adapted for a boat anchor rope, or for
the storm drag. Ninety fathoms of this rope was made for us by the natives, for the sum of
ten milreis ($5.00).

The anchor came of itself almost. I had made a wooden one from heavy sinking timber, but a
stalwart ranchman coming along, one day, brought a boat anchor with him which, he said, had
been used by his slaves as a pot-hook. "But now that they are free and away," said he, "I have
no further use for the crooked thing." A sewing-machine, which had served to stitch the sails
together, was coveted by him, and was of no further use to us; in exchange for this the prized
anchor was readily secured, the owner of it leaving us some boot into the bargain. Things working
thus in our favour, the wooden anchor was stowed away to be kept as a spare bower.

These arrangements completed, our craft took on the appearance of a fishing smack, and I began
to feel somewhat in my old element, with no fear of the lack of ways and means when we should
arrive on our own coast, where I knew of fishing banks. And a document which translated read:
"A licence to catch fish inside and outside of the bar" was readily granted by the port authorities.

"How far outside the bar may this carry us?" I asked.

"Quien sabe!" said the officer. (Literally translated, "Who knows?" but in Spanish or Portuguese
used for, "Nobody knows, or, I don't care.")

"Adieu, señor," said the polite official; "we will meet in heaven!"

This meant you can go since you insist upon it, but I must not officially know of it; and you
will probably go to the bottom. In this he and many others were mistaken.

Having the necessary document now in our possession, we commenced to take in stores for the
voyage, as follows: Sea-biscuits, 120 lbs.; flour, 25 lbs.; sugar, 30 lbs.; coffee, 9 lbs.,
which, roasted black and pounded fine as wheaten flour, was equal to double the amount as prepared
in North America, and afforded us a much more delicious cup.

Of tea we had 3 lbs.; pork, 20 lbs.; dried beef, 100 lbs.; baccalao secca (dried codfish),
20 lbs.; 2 bottles of honey, 200 oranges, 6 bunches of bananas, 120 gallons of water; also
a small basket of yams, and a dozen sticks of sugar-cane, by way of vegetables.

