Pirates and Piracy

                                  BY

                            OSCAR HERRMANN

                        With Illustrations by
                           FREDERICK EHRLICH

                       And an Introduction by
                            HERMAN A. HEYDT

                               NEW YORK
                 PRESS OF STETTINER BROTHERS, PRINTERS
                          52-58 DUANE STREET
                                 1902

INTRODUCTION.

There is hardly a person who, as a school-boy, had not received the fire
of imagination and the stimulus for adventure and a roaming life through
the stirring narratives concerning Captain Kidd and other well-known sea
rovers. A certain ineffable glamor metamorphosed these robbers into
heroes, and lent an inalienable license to their “calling,” so that the
songster and romancist found in them and their deeds prolific and genial
themes, while the obscure suggestions of hidden treasures and mysterious
caves have inspired many expeditions in quest of buried fortunes which,
like the Argo of old, have carried their Jasons to the mythical Colchis.
    Ours the wild life in tumult still to range
    From toil to rest, and joy in every change.

Piracy was the growth of maritime adventure, and developed with the advancement of commerce.
The Phœnicians and Greeks were especially apt in the interstate wars which frequently degenerated
into rapine and plunder, and with them piracy became a recognized enterprise. In Homeric times
it was dignified with a respect worthy of a nobler cause—a sentiment in which the freebooters
of later centuries took arrogant pride. The pirate—cruel, vicious, debased to the lowest degree
of turpitude—established a moral code governing his actions and circumscribing his wanton license,
and it was in the rigorous observance of these “trade laws” and customs of their realm that
this abortive sense of honor manifested itself.

The successes of the Phœnicians and Greeks soon made the Mediterranean the theatre of maritime
robbery, in later years conducted under the authority, sanction, and immunity of the Barbary
powers. In fact, so reckless had the enterprise become that the temerity of the free lances
knew no bounds, and headquarters, so to speak, were established, and for a long time maintained,
at Cilicia.

The vigorous campaign of Pompey in 67 B.C. against the pirates was but the precursor of that
systematic defence which the nations of the world eventually adopted. The Hanseatic League
of the cities of Northern Germany and neighboring states, no doubt, had its origin in the necessitous
combination of merchants to resist the attacks of the Norsemen. England sent out many expeditions
to destroy the pestiferous freebooters who swarmed from the African coast, and finally, in
1815, the United States sent Decatur to Algiers to annihilate the nefarious corsairs, who had
thrived and become brazen in their recklessness during the three centuries of their ascendant
power. The incursions of the Algerine pirates were made as far north as England, Ireland, and
Iceland, and through them an iniquitous slave trade was developed. The law of nations did not
place its ban upon this slave traffic until by statute England and the United States attempted
to obliterate this ineradicable blot upon our civilization, and only a half century ago Austria,
Prussia, and Russia declared it to be piracy.

Piracy, by the law of nations, is punishable with death within the jurisdiction of any nation
under whose flag the capture may have been made, for the pirate is the common enemy of mankind.
Although it has passed the zenith of its perverse glory, and modern naval development has made
it impracticable and impossible, vestiges of piracy remain in the Malay Archipelago and the
China Sea. As recently as 1864 five men were hanged in London on such a charge.

Privateering, the resourceful auxiliary to a weak navy, is also piracy, though not recognized
so by the law of nations. The private ship which, under the authority of letters of marque
and reprisal issued by the government, made war upon a hostile power, was always an indispensable
adjunct to naval warfare. England considered our privateer Paul Jones a pirate. During the
Civil War the Confederate cruisers were termed pirates, and the Alabama claims made upon England
for damage done by the Alabama, the Florida, and the Shenandoah arose from permitting privateers
to depart from her ports.

The rise and sway of the corsairs of Algiers, Tunis, and Tripoli, developing from disorganized
piracy, was evidently the result of the persecution of the Moors of Spain in the sixteenth
century, who, exiled and retributive, sought revenge and lucre in the attacks upon the argosies
from India to Spain. Their successes attracted adventurers from Asia Minor, and thus augmented
they acquired formidable power, established citadels and states, governed by daring and sagacious
leaders, and levied blackmail upon Christian countries for the protection of commerce. It was
not until the vigorous campaign of Decatur that the backbone of this sanctioned lawlessness
of the Barbary States was broken and safety upon the high seas of the East assured.

The bold character of these marauders can be best imagined when we reflect that in the seventeenth
century the Algerine pirates cruised in the English Channel, blockaded the Lord Deputy of Ireland
in 1635 for weeks in an English port, where he remained helpless till succored by an English
man-of-war, and actually entered the harbor of Cork and carried away eight fishermen, who subsequently
were sold as slaves in Algiers. But, as we have seen, piracy, which at one time was the formidable
enemy of mankind and a menace to progress and development, is now merely a matter of history.

The limits of this article will not permit any extended review of lawless maritime depredations
in its various phases, but it may be within our province to refer for a moment to the buccaneers
and filibusters of our own continent. The late war in Cuba brought the filibusters once more
into prominence. The term applies to one who, warring upon another country, does so, not for
private gain, but for public benefit, and refers generally to those who had attempted to conquer
certain Spanish-American possessions upon the plea that the objective country was suffering
from anarchy and oppression. The theory was that salvation could only be found in annexation
to the United States; and if this be so, there are many spiritual filibusters within our borders
to-day. The term has now become generally applicable to adventurers from the United States,
but was unknown under that name until the expedition of Lopez to Cuba in 1850. Aaron Burr was
a filibuster, although we may justly doubt the virtue of his motives. William Walker, perhaps
the foremost of them all, invaded Lower California in 1854, attempted to found a republic,
was defeated, and later conquered Nicaragua and became its president, only to shift about in
his meteoric career of destiny and sail against Honduras, where he was captured, court-martialled,
and shot in 1860.

It is to the buccaneers, however, that the history of piracy is indebted for the “glory” which
may fill its pages; it is to the men of the stamp of Morgan, Dampier, Peter of Dieppe, and
Van Horn, who by their courage, dash, and spasmodic chivalry lent sufficient romance to their
misdeeds as to obscure the crime, that we owe the stirring tales of the conquests in the West
Indies and South America. And no less a pirate was Francis Drake, who, despite his knighthood
and the official countenance the Elizabethan government lent to his attacks upon Spanish galleons
and cities, stands forth as one of the greatest free lances of the world. His history is unique,
brilliant, and commanding; his service for his country and the attack upon the Spanish Armada
atoning, as it were, for his piratical crimes. What irony of fate, that this wonderful man,
a knight of England, a member of Parliament, a warrior and sailor, a robber and conqueror,
should now lie in a lead coffin at the bottom of the sea off Porto Rico, conquered by death
while on his way to the islands so often the object of his pillage!

The constant warring of Spain against the powers of the world, not at home but in her western
possessions, finally led to that outlawry which under the name of buccaneers terrorized the
Caribbean Sea during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. In 1625 the island of St. Christopher
was settled by the buccaneers to establish a base; and later the island of Tortuga was captured,
which became the scene of constant warfare until the capture of Jamaica in 1655.[1] Pre-eminent
amongst the buccaneers of this period who made the Spanish Main a synonym for robbery and bloodshed
was Captain Henry Morgan, who, as a pirate, captured Jamaica, was knighted by Charles II.,
and later made Deputy Governor of the island. He it was who led the buccaneers to the South
Sea, opening for them a rich field for booty, by marching across the Isthmus of Panama, fighting
a battle and capturing and plundering the city, and, seizing the Spanish vessels in the harbor,
set sail for the South Sea, returning by way of Cape Horn with fabulous prizes. After the capture
of Cartagena in 1697, the organization of these intrepid, daring, and able freebooters disrupted,
and the glory waned and vanished; the degeneracy was rapid and complete, till cut-throats and
villainous outlaws took the place of their great predecessors.

    [Footnote 1: Driven from St. Christopher, the expatriated French
    and English outlaws settled in San Domingo, an island over whose
    plains thousands of wild cattle roamed, and found excellent
    revenue in the capture of these beasts and the sale of the flesh
    and hides. The peculiar manner of smoking the beef and
    preserving the hides, known as “bucchanning,” gave them their
    name.]

History shows that in our own country pirates appeared along the Carolina coast as far back
as 1565, and before the settlement of the country by the English, under charter of Charles
II., the pirates of the Spanish Main occupied the coast, the many harbors lending refuge and
safe retreat, while permitting the burying of treasures.

The Carolinas remained friendly to pirates with a persistency of popular favor which was well-nigh
ineradicable. And this is quite readily understood when we reflect that the depredations were
committed upon ships of His Catholic Majesty, the foe of England, and that the pirates brought
their gold and silver plate to the colonies for sale and barter, thus bringing wealth and resource
to the struggling communities; and, lastly, the example and sanction set by the king in knighting
Henry Morgan, the leading pirate of the day. It was impossible to obtain a jury to convict
any one upon the charge of piracy, and so the authorities found themselves helpless.

The best known of all the pirates in America is beyond doubt Captain Kidd, of whom we all have
sung:

    Oh, my name is Captain Kidd,
            As I sailed,
            As I sailed.
    Oh, my name is Captain Kidd,
    And God’s laws I did forbid,
    And right wickedly I did,
            As I sailed.

The English government, alarmed at the bold and heinous offences committed by the Indian pirates
in the Colonies, issued to him letters of marque against the French and the ubiquitous rover
of the coast, whose “Jolly Roger” floating from the mizzen, with its sinister portend, struck
terror to the helpless merchantman.

His work was efficient and sweeping, and in 1691 the Council of the City of New York presented
him £100, in appreciation of his energetic campaign. In 1697 he reached Madagascar to annihilate
the pirates in the Eastern waters, but soon strange reports reached England concerning his
actions, and it developed that he had fallen a victim to the seductive aphorism, “the pirate
is the free child of the sea,” and in the degree as he was their destroyer, so he rose as their
energetic leader. Subsequently he sailed to the West Indies, Delaware, Oyster Bay, and, burying
his treasures on Gardiner’s Island, set sail for Boston, where he was captured, sent to England,
and hanged on Execution Dock, London. The treasures found on Gardiner’s Island amounted to
$170,000, and to this day hopes are entertained of other buried booty.

The scope of Mr. Herrmann’s lecture is not to embrace the history of piracy, but to narrate
the incidents and vicissitudes of a pirate’s life and to illustrate their modus operandi. His
story depicts to us the terrible misdeeds as practised by those ferocious and heartless demons,
amongst whom Captain Fly, Captain Teach, the Blackbeard, and Captain North were the most notorious.

                                                            H. A. H.
NEW YORK, February, 1902.

PIRATES AND PIRACY.

A LECTURE.

The limitations of a lecture will not permit the discussion of the subject upon an extended
scope, nor will it allow a more than cursory review of the general doings, adventures, and
methods of pirates in general, leaving the historical treatment for another occasion.

The Latin word piratia defines the crime, answering to robbery on land, with the distinction
that it is committed upon the high seas or navigable waters generally. The law of nations has
defined it as the taking of property from others by open violence, with intent to steal, and
without lawful authority, on the sea. And with the stringency arising from the ever-growing
depredations, and the community of interests of the civilized world, the crime was made punishable
by death, and jurisdiction was recognized in that country into whose ports the pirate may be
carried.

Piracy flourished in its reckless dare-deviltry and wanton lawlessness about one hundred and
fifty years ago, its most productive operations being confined to the Spanish Main, over whose
vast paths the newly discovered wealth and hidden treasures of the New World were carried.
The unprotected state of commerce permitted these piratical invasions with immunity and thus
allowed this nefarious trade to flourish and develop unchecked and uncontrolled. By reason
of this the lawless element of the community was encouraged and allured by the visions of fabulous
riches with the attendant excitement incident to its capture. Pirates, as a class, were principally
outlaws, social outcasts, or ’longshoremen of a desperate and brutal character, who deemed
it the more enjoyable the more hazardous their undertaking, and who considered it safer to
maraud on the high seas than upon the land, in constant fear of the minions of the law. But
not all pirates were of this character. Some, not inherently vicious nor absolutely depraved,
had adopted this lawless calling by reason of some stigma which deprived them of their social
position; others, by reason of their indolence; and others from sheer necessity, who found
in their dire distress the justification for the dangerous step.

Whenever a band of these men had determined upon their new enterprise, they immediately seized
some available ship in the shore waters, which was frequently accomplished by two or three
approaching in a rowboat, in the guise of purchasers of merchandise. As a rule, a vessel, when
in shore waters, is inadequately protected by guards, and thus the pirates, finding the deck
in their control, would overcome the watch and, with drawn pistols and threats of death, proceed
to make them helpless prisoners. With practical control of the vessel thus assured, some of
the number would stand sentry at the hatchways while a signal to the shore brought the reinforcement
of their comrades in crime. Should the captured crew show remonstrance or any intimation of
resistance, the swords, cutlasses, and heavy chains were most effective as a quietus; and thus
with sails all set, and flying the flag of the home port as a mantle to their knavery, they
sailed forth to some small town in search of provisions, to dispose of their merchandise, release
their prisoners (or, as frequently happened, maroon them upon some desolate island), and thus
equipped and provisioned, with magazines ammunitioned, they set forth in search of prey.

Not infrequently the vessel captured would prove too small and insufficient for marauding expeditions
upon the high seas, and unable to give battle or a spirited chase to a sturdy merchantman.
In such event, their operations were confined to the coast-line and in the harbors which had
been located by spies as having richly laden vessels ready for the outward journey; and, having
ascertained the date of departure, the ship’s complement, its possible fighting strength, and
its destination, a close watch was set, avoiding, however, all cause for suspicion, and, with
lights extinguished, the careful, silent watch was kept till the midnight hour. As eight bells
rang out upon the darkness, and the unsuspecting sailor keeping the midnight watch looked blankly
into the night, several rowboats, with occupants armed to the teeth, would be lowered, and
without a splash ride the waters, over which they glided, carrying the sea-robbers to the grim
sides of their intended prey.

In many cases the decks, by reason of the fancied security afforded by the harbor, would be
deserted, and, taking advantage of this opportunity, the attacking party quickly leap over
the sides and, under the noiselessly given commands of their captain, creep stealthily to the
hatchways, cautiously taking their positions so that no miscalculations might frustrate their
designs. And so, invading below decks, with weapons poised and every fibre on the alert, the
concerted attack upon the sleeping victims would be given. With one fell swoop, and with the
savagery born of their nefarious undertaking, the crew would be ruthlessly butchered, some
few, perhaps, escaping in the general skirmish and fleeing up the gangway, only to be struck
down by the villain on guard. For the present we will close our eyes to the awful picture of
torture and murder here enacted, to revert to it upon a subsequent occasion.

With the crew slain, gagged or in chains, with all possible resistance overcome, the coming
of the day was awaited. And as the first faint streaks of gray broke in upon the darkness of
the night and the harbingers of the dawn sent their shafts athwart the horizon, the ship rode
proudly at her anchor, silently and stately, giving no indication of the carnage of the night.
The creaking of the chain around the capstan was but the mariners’ music to sing the glory
of the voyage to be begun, and so, without creating the least suspicion in the vessels lying
round about, the captors brought their prize abreast their old vessel, transferred their stock
of provisions and merchandise, if any, to the newly captured vessel, and, thus prepared, sailed
grandly out of the harbor. When once again the breath of the ocean bellied their sails and
sped them on to the unknown argosy, the dead, vanquished crew was rudely cast into the sea,
without the semblance of respect for the dead, the decks thoroughly scrubbed, the scuppers
flushed, the inventory prepared, and so, once again, the course was set for a port in which
to dispose of their cargo. The argus-eyed lookout stationed far up in the foremast scanned
every point of the far-reaching horizon, signalling to his mates the appearance of a spar against
the heavens. Then, with course changed and wheel set, and sped on by conspiring winds, they
bore down upon the unfortunate vessel, displaying at the proper moment the ominous and fateful
black flag and its ghastly emblem of skull and cross-bones.

Thus, for months perhaps, the fitful winds and steady currents carried them hither and thither,
ever alert, ever ready for combat and plunder. With guns primed and powder-horn stocked, these
plunderers roamed the trackless sea, at times with impatience and drooping hopes, until the
sight of a large, heavily riding merchantman sent their blood a-leaping and transformed the
deck into a scene of feverish activity. If we recall the peaceful errand of the merchantmen
and reflect that their armature was little calculated to cope with the war-waging outlaws,
it is quite apparent how gross the inequality of the struggle must necessarily be. While most
of the merchantmen carried defensive armament, the unpractised, unskilled crew made the guns
in their hands little more than ineffective. As the pirate ship approached, she displayed the
same flag flying from the stern of the merchantman; and with the crew hidden below decks, in
order not to betray their purpose, the vessels approached sufficiently close to enable the
pirates to fire a broadside into the unsuspecting vessel and demand immediate surrender. At
times a vessel, by reason of its superiority, would succeed in outsailing the pirates, but
frequently the result was most disastrous. Often a stout-hearted merchantman, seeing that capture
was inevitable, would offer battle in desperation, firing volley after volley of stone shot,
the pirates, stubborn, furious, tenacious, fighting with all the ferocity their natures were
capable of, resulting, after a decisive contest, in the lowering of the merchantman flag in
disgrace and humiliation. With the lowering of the sails as an indication of surrender, the
pirates sent out several boats with armed men, under the command of a chosen leader, who at
once placed the captain under arrest and demanded the ship’s papers under pain of death. This
request was usually, though unwillingly, acceded to. The old vessel was thereupon dismantled,
the captured boat refitted, and, burning the hull of the forsaken vessel, the pirates once
more set sail, with the imprisoned captain and crew in chains cast into the dark, foul hold
of the ship. Immunity was sometimes granted the captives upon their taking the oath of allegiance
to the piratical horde. Can we not imagine how the intense anguish and unendurable torture
finally forced from the unwilling lips the fearful avowal of allegiance?

We can plainly observe the purpose of the pirates in endeavoring to capture a large, powerful,
and speedy vessel, for that was the only safeguard of their barbarous trade. They readily recognized
that success and security depended solely upon speed to overtake a fleeing ship or to escape
a powerful adversary. Their motto, “He who fights and runs away may live to fight another day,”
was in reality the only literature the bold and adventurous pirate would comprehend or accept.
Therefore, well equipped in a stanch, trim vessel, with the lockers filled, the magazines stocked,
the guns aimed and ready for action, they were brave enough to combat even a man-of-war. The
books are replete with the thrilling accounts of engagements and set battles waged between
pirates and resisting armed merchantmen, resulting completely in victory for the black flag
which so defiantly floated from the mizzenmast. The gradual progress and growth of the energetic
sea-robbers, from the looting of vessels riding peacefully at anchor in the harbors to the
management of large and seaworthy craft, permitted them to undertake long and seemingly endless
cruises, the most daring of which being undertaken, no doubt, by that notorious chieftain,
Captain Nathaniel North, who cruised from Newfoundland to the West Indies, then across the
Southern Atlantic to the Cape of Good Hope, thence via Mozambique to the Indian Ocean, and
northward to the Red Sea, traversing the same track to the Arabian Sea and East Indies—a voyage
of 28,670 miles, the toy of the monsoon, the victim of the typhoon, and the sport of the trade-winds
in the many latitudes. History has reserved a rather infamous niche for such freebooters as
Thomas Howard, Captain Misson, Captain Fly, and Captain Kidd, whose voyages and exploits have
given themes to the historian, the narrator, and the novelist. It was during these long cruises
that the coast towns suffered through the depredations, plundering, and pillage, and the inhabitants
put in constant fear of these sudden and vicious onslaughts.

Not infrequently the pirates selected some desolate locality in which to bury their treasures
and store their stolen goods, generally building a “village” inland, well hidden in the foliage
of the forests or tropical shrubbery, and perhaps inaccessible save through the devious paths
cunningly planned to secure immunity from attack. These natural defences were supplemented
with a series of forts as a further protection from the incursions of the natives. The internecine
wars so fiercely waged by the inhabitants of the African East Coast frequently brought the
vanquished to these “villages” to secure protection—a safety usually given in exchange for
practical slavery in tilling the ground and cultivating crops.

From time almost immemorial the word pirate has been synonymous with all that is villainous,
bloodthirsty, and cruel, and capture by a gang of these assassins meant indescribable torture
and suffering, and we will devote a few moments to a consideration of these awful scenes; the
sudden attacks, the vain attempts at flight, the desperate hand-to-hand struggles for life,
mingled with the brutal yells, interspersed with the piteous cries for mercy, followed by the
horrible silence which finally settles over the slippery decks, and the gruesome spectacle
of the dreadful vandalism as the murderers proceed to strip their victims.

Generally, after a successful attack, the captain of the unfortunate vessel would be placed
in chains and questioned as to the cargo and treasures of his ship. A cutlass held menacingly
over him indicated the danger of untruth, and frequently a savage gash brought a stubborn and
silent captain to submission. Inquisitorial tortures, unrelieved by any mock civility, were
continued to extract further confessions from the pain-racked prisoners. Devices born only
of a devilish instinct and fiendish delight suggested all forms of suffering, and so the captain
was frequently tied to the ship’s pump and surrounded with burning combustibles; or, fastened
to the deck, surrounded with gunpowder, which they ignited; or his limbs were severed from
his body and his flesh prodded with the points of the cutlass, the fiendish pirates forming
a circle around him for this inhuman “sport.”

Despite these awful tortures, confessions were often suppressed, in the hope that the pirates
would allow the vessel to proceed on its way (as was sometimes the case), and thus a part of
the treasures be saved. But all hope of succor or consideration at the hands of these murderers
was idle. Unsatisfied with the mere acquisition of booty, these human devils, devoid of the
last spark of compassion, would mete out to each member of the crew and the passengers the
most unheard-of tortures which human depravity could invent, for the amusement of the captors.
Some were tied to a windlass and pelted into insensibility, or perhaps more charitable death.
Others were lashed with ropes and cast, almost dead, into the sea; or, spiked hand and foot
to the deck, were exposed mercilessly to the hot rays of the sun until the features were distorted
into unrecognizability; some were placed before a gun and thus decapitated, while others were
tied back to back and thrown into the waters. In fact, so low were these villainous wretches
in their degradation that only the most cruel and cunningly devised torture could satiate their
bloodthirsty cravings—human hyenas, who found rest only in the pains and shrieks of other mortals.
By far the most favorite pastime was to make the victim “walk the plank” or hang him to the
yardarm—a suggestion of the retribution suffered by the pirates when captured. No word picture
can present the awful orgies indulged in by these social outcasts, who continued their carnage,
assault, and abuse until the last victim had succumbed. Then, directing their attention to
the ship, it was quietly dismantled, set adrift, or frequently burned to the water’s edge,
allowing the hull to float about, a rudderless derelict.

One must not form the impression, however, that this reckless lawlessness was attended with
insubordination or lack of discipline. On the contrary, they were rigorously governed by an
iron hand and by the unwritten “code of honor.” A pirate entered upon “the account” (a term
meaning piracy) by taking the oath of fealty to the cause, abjuring all social ties, pledging
himself never to desert his ship or defraud his comrades or steal anything belonging to his
fellows. Having thus bound him by an oath firm and dreadful in its malediction upon any violation
of its terms, the organization is completed by the selection of a captain, who, usually, is
the strongest, bravest, and most desperate of them all, well calculated to keep the crew in
subjection. Mutiny and the spirit of insubordination frequently raised its ominous growl, to
be quelled only by the fearlessness of the captain and his ability to keep his men in abject
fear of his commands. It held the men in the thralls of hypnotism, and in its efficaciousness
depended the safety of the captain and his “loyal” adherents. With some crews the title Captain
did not convey autocratic power nor dictatorial prerogatives, his power to command absolutely
being confined only to times of combat. A usurpation of power frequently brought death as a
deterrent to any aspiring successor. In those cases where the captain was not recognized as
the sole ruler, each man had a vote in affairs of moment, and had an undivided interest and
title in all booty.

It can readily be understood how valueless the cast-iron oath of the pirate must be when occasion
makes its rejection convenient, and thus apparent dissatisfaction with the captain or with
his commands have frequently caused those secret plottings below decks, resulting in open revolt
or mutiny:—pirate against pirate, brute force matched against brute force for power and supremacy.
The severest punishment to a member of the crew for thieving from a fellow-pirate was marooning—slitting
the ears and nose and depositing the offender upon some desolate island or lonely shore with
but few provisions and limited ammunition. Life was little prized, for death had no terrors,
and life beyond this world entered not into their calculations. Their fearlessness and courage
was splendidly exampled when Captain Teach, alias Black Beard, appeared off Charleston in the
year 1717 and sent word to the Governor of the colony to send out to him at once a certain
number of medicine chests, in failure of which the port would be blockaded by his single vessel,
and all persons on board in-going and out-going ships killed and their heads sent to the Governor
as proof of the execution of the threat. He also threatened to set all ships on fire. It illustrates
clearly in what dread these sea marauders were held in those times, when we learn that the
Governor immediately complied with the demands and the embargo was raised. It is recorded that
in moments of defeat pirates voluntarily have set fire to their powder magazines and thus were
blown to destruction rather than plead for mercy. During long cruises, when no ships upon the
horizon line varied the monotony of the daily routine, pastimes were invented, each one out-rivalling
the other in sheer wickedness. Captain Teach considered it rare sport to lock his men in the
ship’s hold and then set sulphur afire to ascertain how long they could withstand asphyxiation.
Yet his greatest “bravery” was displayed (and herein he developed commendable Spartan fortitude)
when he married fourteen times with a fearlessness highly worthy of a better purpose! His wickedness
was as great as his fearlessness was unbounded, but wickedness was voted manly in a pirate
and assured the esteem and admiration of his comrades.

With the progression of events and the growth of commerce, piracy waned, and gradually the
black flag which had so long swept the Spanish Main was furled and drooped into the sea over
which it had so long defiantly floated. The European governments made many futile attempts
to check the rapid development of the unlawful enterprise, and many expeditions were successful,
resulting in the trial, condemnation, and execution of the outlaws on land.

In England a proclamation of amnesty was issued, insuring freedom and rights of citizenship
to all who renounced their calling—a privilege which many accepted, only to find their blood
fire and yearn for the wild, aimless, and adventurous roaming on the seas, which gradually
drew them back to their calling and away from the restraints of civilization. The capture of
a pirate meant death, and, as no practicable defence was available, the prisoners usually entrenched
themselves behind the plea that they were kidnapped or shanghaied and were compelled to enter
into piracy for the preservation of their lives. But piracy, with its harrowing gruesomeness,
its boldness and daring, its romance and adventure, its plunder and murder, its conflicts and
reprisals, is a spectre of the past, and now is chiefly confined to the rivers and harbors
of the Far East and Northern Africa. It has lost the glamor and enchanting, romantic atmosphere
which pervaded the career of Captain Kidd and made him the worshipped hero of every school-boy,
or which inspired the pen of a Scott, of an Edgar Allan Poe or Frank R. Stockton, or put the
charm to the tales of W. Clark Russell, for pirates and piracy are now dead, and live ingloriously
only in the pages of chronicling history.

