RICHARD OF JAMESTOWN

by James Otis

FOREWORD

The purpose of this series of stories is to show the children, and even those who have already
taken up the study of history, the home life of the colonists with whom they meet in their
books. To this end every effort has been made to avoid anything savoring of romance, and to
deal only with facts, so far as that is possible, while describing the daily life of those
people who conquered the wilderness whether for conscience sake or for gain.

That the stories may appeal more directly to the children, they are told from the viewpoint
of a child, and purport to have been related by a child. Should any criticism be made regarding
the seeming neglect to mention important historical facts, the answer would be that these books
are not sent out as histories--although it is believed that they will awaken a desire to learn
more of the building of the nation--and only such incidents as would be particularly noted
by a child are used.

Surely it is entertaining as well as instructive for young people to read of the toil and privations
in the homes of those who came into a new world to build up a country for themselves, and such
homely facts are not to be found in the real histories of our land.

JAMES OTIS.

WHO I AM

Yes, my name is Richard Mutton. Sounds rather queer, doesn't it? The lads in London town used
to vex me sorely by calling, "Baa, baa, black sheep," whenever I passed them, and yet he who
will may find the name Richard Mutton written in the list of those who were sent to Virginia,
in the new world, by the London Company, on the nineteenth day of December, in the year of
Our Lord, 1606.

Whosoever may chance to read what I am here setting down, will, perhaps, ask how it happened
that a lad only ten years of age was allowed to sail for that new world in company with such
a band of adventurous men as headed the enterprise.

Therefore it is that I must tell a certain portion of the story of my life, for the better
understanding of how I came to be in this fair, wild, savage beset land of Virginia.

Yet I was not the only boy who sailed in the Susan Constant, as you may see by turning to the
list of names, which is under the care, even to this day, of the London Company, for there
you will find written in clerkly hand the names Samuel Collier, Nathaniel Peacock, James Brumfield,
and Richard Mutton. Nathaniel Peacock has declared more than once that my name comes last in
the company at the very end of all, because I was not a full grown mutton; but only large enough
to be called a sheep's tail, and therefore should be hung on behind, as is shown by the list.

The reason of my being in this country of Virginia at so young an age, is directly concerned
with that brave soldier and wondrous adventurer, Captain John Smith, of whom I make no doubt
the people in this new world, when the land has been covered with towns and villages, will
come to know right well, for of a truth he is a wonderful man. In the sixth month of Grace,
1606, I Was living as best I might in that great city of London, which is as much a wilderness
of houses, as this country is a wilderness of trees. My father was a soldier of fortune, which
means that he stood ready to do battle in behalf of whatsoever nation he believed was in the
right, or, perhaps, on the side of those people who would pay him the most money for risking
his life.

He had fought with the Dutch soldiers under command of one Captain Miles Standish, an Englishman
of renown among men of arms, and had been killed. My mother died less than a week before the
news was brought that my father had been shot to death. Not then fully understanding how great
a disaster it is to a young lad when he loses father or mother, and how yet more sad is his
lot when he has lost both parents, I made shift to live as best I might with a sore heart;
but yet not so sore as if I had known the full extent of the misfortune which had overtaken me.

At first it was an easy matter for me to get food at the home of this lad, or of that, among
my acquaintances, sleeping wherever night overtook me; but, finally, when mayhap three months
had gone by, my welcome was worn threadbare, and I was told by more than one, that a hulking
lad of ten years should have more pride than to beg his way from door to door.

It is with shame I here set down the fact, that many weeks passed before I came to understand,
in ever so slight a degree, what a milksop I must be, thus eating the bread of idleness when
I should have won the right, by labor, to a livelihood in this world.

This last thought had just begun to take root in my heart when Nathaniel Peacock, whose mother
had been a good friend of mine during a certain time after I was made an orphan, and I, heard
that a remarkably brave soldier was in the city of London, making ready to go into the new
world, with the intent to build there a town for the king.

CAPTAIN JOHN SMITH COMES TO LONDON

This man was no other than Captain John Smith, who, although at this time not above six and
twenty years of age, had already served in the French, in the Dutch, and in the Transylvanian
armies, where he had met and overcome many dangers.

He had been robbed and beaten and thrown into the sea because of not believing in the religion
of the men who attacked him; he had been a slave among the Turks; he had fought, one after
another, three of the bravest in the Turkish army, and had cut off the head of each in turn.

Can it be wondered at that Nathaniel Peacock and I were filled to overflowing with admiration
for this wonderful soldier, or that we desired above all things to see him?

We loitered about the streets of London town from daylight until night had come again, hoping
to feast our eyes upon this same John Smith, who was to us one of the wonders of the world,
because in so short a time he had made his name as a soldier famous in all countries, and yet
we saw him not.

We had searched London town over and over for mayhap a full month, doing nothing else save
hunt for the man whose life had been so filled with adventure, and each time we returned home,
Mistress Peacock reproached me with being an idle good for nothing, and Nathaniel but little
better.

I believe it was her harsh words which caused to spring up in my heart a desire to venture
into the new world, where it was said gold could be found in abundance, and even the smallest
lad might pick up whatsoever of wealth he desired, if so be his heart was strong enough to
brave the journey across the great ocean.

The more I thought of what could be found in that land, which was called Virginia, the stronger
grew my desire, until the time came when it was a fixed purpose in my mind, and not until then
did I breathe to Nathaniel a word of that which had been growing within me.

He took fire straightway I spoke of what it might be possible for us lads to do, and declared
that whether his mother were willing or no, he would brave all the dangers of that terrible
journey overseas, if so be we found an opportunity. To him it seemed a simple matter that,
having once found a ship which was to sail for the far off land, we might hide ourselves within
her, having gathered sufficient of food to keep us alive during the journey. But how this last
might be done, his plans had not been made.

Lest I should set down too many words, and therefore bring upon myself the charge of being
one who can work with his tongue better than with his hands, I will pass over all that which
Nathaniel and I did during the long time we roamed the streets, in the hope of coming face
to face with Captain Smith.

It is enough if I set it down at once that we finally succeeded in our purpose, having come
upon him one certain morning on Cheapside, when there was a fight on among some apprentices,
and the way so blocked that neither he nor any other could pass through the street, until the
quarrelsome fellows were done playing upon each other's heads with sticks and stones.

It seemed much as if fortune had at last consented to smile upon us, for we were standing directly
in front of the great man.

I know not how it chanced that I, a lad whose apparel was far from being either cleanly or
whole, should have dared to raise my voice in speech with one who was said to have talked even
with a king. Yet so I did, coming without many words to that matter which had been growing
these many days in my mind, and mayhap it was the very suddenness of the words that caught
his fancy.

"Nathaniel Peacock and I are minded to go with you into that new world, Captain John Smith,
if so be you permit us," I said, "and there we will serve you with honesty and industry."

There was a smile come upon his face as I spoke, and he looked down upon Nathaniel and me,
who were wedged among that throng which watched the apprentices quarrel, until we were like
to be squeezed flat, and said in what I took to be a friendly tone:

"So, my master, you would journey into Virginia with the hope of making yourself rich, and
you not out from under your mother's apron as yet?"

"I have no mother to wear an apron, Captain Smith, nor father to say I may go there or shall
come here; but yet would serve you as keenly as might any man, save mayhap my strength, which
will increase, be not so great as would be found in those older."

Whether this valiant soldier was pleased with my words, or if in good truth boys were needed
in the enterprise, I cannot say; but certain it is he spoke me fairly, writing down upon a
piece of paper, which he tore from his tablets, the name of the street in which he had lodgings,
and asking, as he handed it to me, if I could read.

Now it was that I gave silent thanks, because of what had seemed to me a hardship when my mother
forced me to spend so many hours each day in learning to use a quill, until I was able to write
a clerkly hand.

It seemed to please this great soldier that I could do what few of the lads in that day had
been taught to master, and, without further ado, he said to me boldly:

"You shall journey into Virginia with me, an' it please you, lad. What is more, I will take
upon myself the charge of outfitting you, and time shall tell whether you have enough of manliness
in you to repay me the cost."

Then it was that Nathaniel raised his voice; but the captain gave him no satisfaction, declaring
it was the duty of a true lad to stand by his mother, and that he would lend his aid to none
who had a home, and in it those who cared for him.

I could have talked with this brave soldier until the night had come, and would never have
wearied of asking concerning what might be found in that new world of Virginia; but it so chanced
that when the business was thus far advanced, the apprentices were done with striving to break
each other's heads, and Captain Smith, bidding me come to his house next morning, went his way.

THE PLANS OF THE LONDON COMPANY

Then it was that Nathaniel declared he also would go on the voyage to Virginia, whether it
pleased Captain Smith or no, and I, who should have set my face against his running away from
home, spoke no word to oppose him, because it would please me to have him as comrade.

After this I went more than once to the house where Captain Smith lodged, and learned very
much concerning what it was proposed to do toward building a town in the new world.

Both Nathaniel and I had believed it was the king who counted to send all these people overseas;
but I learned from my new master that a company of London merchants was in charge of the enterprise,
these merchants believing much profit might come to them in the way of getting gold.

The whole business was to be under the control of Captain Bartholomew Gosnold, who, it was
said, had already made one voyage to the new world, and had brought back word that it was a
goodly place in which to settle and to build up towns. The one chosen to act as admiral of
the fleet, for there were to be three ships instead of one, as I had fancied, was Captain Christopher
Newport, a man who had no little fame as a seaman.

In due time, as the preparations for the voyage were being forwarded, I was sent by my master
into lodgings at Blackwall, just below London town, for the fleet lay nearby, and because it
was understood by those in charge of the adventure that I was in Captain Smith's service, no
hindrance was made to my going on board the vessels.

THE VESSELS OF THE FLEET

These were three in number, as I have already said: the Constant, a ship of near to one hundred
tons in size; the Goodspeed, of forty tons, and the Discovery, which was a pinnace of only
twenty tons.

And now, lest some who read what I have set down may not be acquainted with the words used
by seamen, let me explain that the measurement of a vessel by tons, means that she will fill
so much space in the water. Now, in measuring a vessel, a ton is reckoned as forty cubic feet
of space, therefore when I say the Susan Constant was one hundred tons in size, it is the same
as if I had set down that she would carry four thousand cubic feet of cargo.

That he who reads may know what I mean by a pinnace, as differing from a ship, I can best make
it plain by saying that such a craft is an open boat, wherein may be used sails or oars, and,
as in the case of the Discovery, may have a deck over a certain portion of her length. That
our pinnace was a vessel able to withstand such waves as would be met with in the ocean, can
be believed when you remember that she was one half the size of the Goodspeed, which we counted
a ship.

HOW I EARNED MY PASSAGE

Captain Smith, my master, found plenty of work for me during the weeks before the fleet sailed.
He had many matters to be set down in writing, and because of my mother's care in teaching
me to use the quill, I was able, or so it seemed to me, to be of no little aid to him in those
busy days, when it was as if he must do two or three things at the same time in order to bring
his business to an end. I learned during that time to care very dearly for this valiant soldier,
who could, when the fit was on him, be as tender and kind as a girl, and again, when he was
crossed, as stern a man as one might find in all London town.

Because of my labors, and it pleased me greatly that I could do somewhat toward forwarding
the adventure, I had no time in which to search for my friend, Nathaniel Peacock, although
I did not cease to hope that he would try to find me.

I had parted with him in the city, and he knew right well where I was going; yet, so far as
I could learn, he had never come to Blackwall.

I had no doubt but that I could find him in the city, and it was in my mind, at the first opportunity,
to seek him out, if for no other reason than that we might part as comrades should, for he
had been a true friend to me when my heart was sore; but from the moment the sailors began
to put the cargo on board the Susan Constant and the Goodspeed, I had no chance to wander around
Blackwall, let alone journeying to London.

Then came the twentieth of December, when we were to set sail, and great was the rejoicing
among the people, who believed that we would soon build up a city in the new world, which would
be of great wealth and advantage to those in England.

I heard it said, although I myself was not on shore to see what was done, that in all the churches
prayers were made for our safe journeying, and there was much marching to and fro of soldiers,
as if some great merrymaking were afoot.

The shore was lined with people; booths were set up where showmen displayed for pay many curious
things, and food and sweetmeats were on sale here and there, for so large a throng stood in
need of refreshment as well as amusement.

It was a wondrous spectacle to see all these people nearby on the shore, knowing they had come
for no other purpose than to look at us, and I took no little pride to myself because of being
numbered among the adventurers, even vainly fancying that many wondered what part a boy could
have in such an undertaking.

Then we set sail, I watching in vain for a glimpse of Nathaniel Peacock as the ships got under
way. Finally, sadly disappointed, and with the sickness of home already in my heart, I went
into the forward part of the ship, where was my sleeping place, thinking that very shortly
we should be tossing and tumbling on the mighty waves of the ocean.

In this I was mistaken, for the wind was contrary to our purpose, and we lay in the Downs near
six weeks, while Master Hunt, the preacher, who had joined the company that he might labor
for the good of our souls; lay so nigh unto death in the cabin of the Susan Constant, that
I listened during all the waking hours of the night, fearing to hear the tolling of the ship's
bell, which would tell that he had gone from among the living.

It was on the second night, after we were come to anchor in the Downs awaiting a favorable
wind, that I, having fallen asleep while wishing Nathaniel Peacock might have been with us,
was awakened by the pressure of a cold hand upon my cheek. I was near to crying aloud with
fear, for the first thought that came was that Master Hunt had gone from this world, and was
summoning me; but before the cry could escape my lips, I heard the whispered words: "It is
me, Nate Peacock!"

It can well be guessed that I was sitting bolt upright in the narrow bed, which sailors call
a bunk, by the time this had been said, and in the gloom of the seamen's living place I saw
a head close to mine.

Not until I had passed my hands over the face could I believe it was indeed my comrade, and
it goes without saying that straightway I insisted on knowing how he came there, when he should
have been in London town.

I cannot set the story down as Nathaniel Peacock told it to me on that night, because his words
were many; but the tale ran much like this:

NATHANIEL'S STORY

When Captain John Smith had promised on Cheapside that I should be one of the company of adventurers,
because of such labor as it might be possible for me to perform, and had refused to listen
to my comrade, Nathaniel, without acquainting me with the fact, had made up his mind that he
also would go into the new world of Virginia.

Fearing lest I would believe it my duty to tell Captain Smith of his purpose, he kept far from
me, doing whatsoever he might in London town to earn as much as would provide him with food
during a certain time.

In this he succeeded so far as then seemed necessary, and when it was known that the fleet
was nearly ready to make sail, he came to Blackwall with all his belongings tied in his doublet.

To get on board the Susan Constant without attracting much attention while she was being visited
by so many curious people, was not a hard task for Nathaniel Peacock, and three days before
the fleet was got under way, my comrade had hidden himself in the very foremost part of the
ship, where were stored the ropes and chains.

There he had remained until thirst, or hunger, drove him out, on this night of which I am telling
you, and he begged that I go on deck, where were the scuttle butts, to get him a pannikin of water.

For those of you who may not know what a scuttle butt is, I will explain that it is a large
cask in which fresh water is kept on shipboard. When Nathaniel's burning thirst had been soothed,
he began to fear that I might give information to Captain John Smith concerning him; but after
all that had been done in the way of hiding himself, and remembering his suffering, I had not
the heart so to do.

During four days more he spent all the hours of sunshine, and the greater portion of the night,
in my bed, closely covered so that the sailors might not see him, and then came the discovery,
when he was dragged out with many a blow and harsh word to give an account of himself. I fear
it would have gone harder still with Nathaniel, if I had not happened to be there at that very
moment.

As it was, I went directly to Captain John Smith, my master, telling him all Nathaniel's story,
and asking if the lad had not shown himself made of the proper stuff to be counted on as one
of the adventurers.

Although hoping to succeed in my pleading, I was surprised when the captain gave a quick consent
to number the lad among those who were to go into the new land of Virginia, and was even astonished
when his name was written down among others as if he had been pledged to the voyage in due form.

But for the sickness of Master Hunt, and the fear we had lest he should die, Nathaniel and
I might have made exceeding merry while we lay at anchor in the Downs, for food was plentiful;
there was little of work to be done, and we lads could have passed the time skylarking with
such of the sailors as were disposed to sport, except orders had been given that no undue noise
be made on deck.

WE MAKE SAIL AGAIN

It seemed to me almost as if we spent an entire lifetime within sight of the country we were
minded to leave behind us, and indeed six weeks, with no change of scene, and while one is
held to the narrow limits of a ship, is an exceeding long time.

However, as I have heard Captain Smith say again and again, everything comes to him who waits,
and so also came that day when the winds were favoring; when Captain Newport, the admiral of
our fleet, gave the word to make sail, and we sped softly away from England's shores, little
dreaming of that time of suffering, of sickness, and of sadness which was before us.

To Nathaniel and me, who had never strayed far from London town, and knew no more of the sea
than might have been gained in a boatman's wherry, the ocean was exceeding unkind, and for
eight and forty hours did we lie in that narrow bed, believing death was very near at hand.

There is no reason why I should make any attempt at describing the sickness which was upon
us, for I have since heard that it comes to all who go out on the sea for the first time. When
we recovered, it was suddenly, like as a flower lifts up its head after a refreshing shower
that has pelted it to the ground.

I would I might set down here all which came to us during the voyage, for it was filled with
wondrous happenings; but because I would tell of what we did in the land of Virginia, I must
be sparing of words now.

THE FIRST ISLAND

It is to be remembered that our fleet left London on the twentieth day of December, and, as
I have since heard Captain Smith read from the pages which he wrote concerning the voyage,
it was on the twenty-third of March that we were come to the island of Martinique, where for
the first time Nathaniel Peacock and I saw living savages.

When we were come to anchor, they paddled out to our ships in frail boats called canoes, bringing
many kinds of most delicious fruits, which we bought for such trumpery things as glass beads
and ornaments of copper.

It was while we lay off this island that we saw a whale attacked and killed by a thresher and
a swordfish, which was a wondrous sight.

And now was a most wicked deed done by those who claimed to be in command of our company, for
they declared that my master had laid a plot with some of the men in each vessel of the fleet,
whereby the principal members of the company were to be murdered, to the end that Captain Smith
might set himself up as king after we were come to the new world.

All this was untrue, as I knew full well, having aided him in such work as a real clerk would
have done, and had there been a plot, I must have found some inkling of it in one of the many
papers I read aloud to him, or copied down on other sheets that the work of the quill might
be more pleasing to the eye.

Besides that, I had been with the captain a goodly portion of the time while the ships were
being made ready for the voyage, and if he had harbored so much of wickedness, surely must
some word of it have come to me, who sat or stood near at hand, listening attentively whenever
he had speech with others of the company of adventurers.

CAPTAIN SMITH A PRISONER

When the voyage was begun, and the captain no longer had need of me, I was sent into the forward
part of the ship to live, as has already been set down, and therefore it was I knew nothing
of what was being done in the great cabin, where the leaders of the company were quartered,
until after my master was made a prisoner. Then it was told me by the seaman who had been called
by Captain Kendall, as if it was feared my master, being such a great soldier, might strive
to harm those who miscalled him a traitor to that which he had sworn.

It seems, so the seaman said, that Captain John Martin was the one who made the charges against
my master, on the night after we set sail from Martinique, when all the chief men of the company
were met in the great cabin, and he declared that, when it was possible to do so, meaning after
we had come to the land of Virginia, witnesses should be brought from the other ships to prove
the wicked intent. Then it was that Captain George Kendall declared my master must be kept
a close prisoner until the matter could be disposed of, and all the others, save Captain Bartholomew
Gosnold, agreeing, heavy irons were put upon him. He was shut up in his sleeping place, having
made no outcry nor attempt to do any harm, save that he declared himself innocent of wrong doing.

But for Captain Gosnold and Master Hunt, the preacher, I should not have been permitted to
go in and learn if I might do anything for his comfort. The other leaders declared that my
master was a dangerous man, who should not be allowed to have speech with any person save themselves,
lest he send some message to those who were said to be concerned with him in the plot.

I ATTEND MY MASTER

Master Hunt spoke up right manfully in behalf of Captain Smith, with the result that I was
given free entrance to that small room which had been made his prison, save that I must at
all times leave the door open, so those who were in the great cabin could hear if I was charged
with any message to the seamen.

My eyes were filled with tears when my master told me that he had no thought save that of benefiting
those who were with him in the adventure, and that he would not lend his countenance to any
wicked plot.

I begged him to understand that I knew right well he would do no manner of wrong to any man,
and asked the privilege of being with him all the time, to serve him when he could not serve
himself because of the irons that fettered his legs.

And so it was that I had opportunity to do that which made my master as true a friend as ever
lad had, for in the later days when we were come to Virginia and beset by savages more cruel
than wild beasts, he ventured his own life again and again to save mine, which was so worthless
as compared with his.

Only that I might tell how the voyage progressed, did I go on deck, or have speech with Nathaniel
Peacock, and only through me did my master know when we were come to this island or that, together
with what was to be seen in such places.

SEVERAL ISLANDS VISITED

Therefore it was that when, on the next day after he was made a prisoner, we were come to anchor
off that island which the savages called Gaudaloupe, and Nathaniel had been permitted to go
on shore in one of the boats, I could tell my master of the wondrous waters which were found there.

Nathaniel told me that water spouted up out of the earth so hot, that when Captain Newport
threw into it a piece of pork tied to a rope, the meat was cooked in half an hour, even as
if it had been over a roaring hot fire.

After that we passed many islands, the names of which I could not discover, until we came to
anchor within half a musket shot from the shore of that land which is known as Nevis. Here
we lay six days, and the chief men of the company went on shore for sport and to hunt, save
always either Captain Martin or Captain Kendall, who remained on board to watch the poor prisoner,
while he, my master, lay in his narrow bed sweltering under the great heat.

During all this while, the seamen and our gentlemen got much profit and sport from hunting
and fishing, adding in no small degree to our store of food. Had Captain Smith not been kept
from going on shore by the wickedness of those who were jealous because of his great fame as
a soldier, I dare venture to say our stay at this island of Nevis would have been far more
to our advantage.

From this place we went to what Master Hunt told me were the Virgin islands, and here the men
went ashore again to hunt; but my master, speaking no harsh words against those who were wronging
him, lay in the small, stinging hot room, unable to get for himself even a cup of water, though
I took good care he should not suffer from lack of kindly care.

Then on a certain day we sailed past that land which Captain Gosnold told me was Porto Rico,
and next morning came to anchor off the island of Mona, where the seamen were sent ashore to
get fresh water, for our supply was running low.

Captain Newport, and many of the other gentlemen, went on shore to hunt, and so great was the
heat that Master Edward Brookes fell down dead, one of the sailors telling Nathaniel that the
poor man's fat was melted until he could no longer live; but Captain Smith, who knows more
concerning such matters than all this company rolled into one, save I might except Master Hunt,
declared that the fat of a live person does not melt, however great the heat. It is the sun
shining too fiercely on one's head that brings about death, and thus it was that Master Brookes
died.

A VARIETY OF WILD GAME

Our gentlemen who had the heart to make prisoner of so honest, upright a man as my master,
did not cease their sport because of what had befallen Master Brookes, but continued at the
hunting until they had brought down two wild boars and also an animal fashioned like unto nothing
I had ever seen before. It was something after the manner of a serpent, but speckled on the
stomach as is a toad, and Captain Smith believed the true name of it to be Iguana, the like
of which he says that he has often seen in other countries and that its flesh makes very good
eating.

If any one save Captain Smith had said this, I should have found it hard to believe him, and
as it was I was glad my belief was not put to the test. Two days afterward we were come to
an island which Master Hunt says is known to seamen as Monica, and there it was that Nathaniel
went on shore in one of the boats, coming back at night to tell me a most wondrous story.

He declared that the birds and their eggs were so plentiful that the whole island was covered
with them; that one could not set down his foot, save upon eggs, or birds sitting on their
nests, some of which could hardly be driven away even with blows, and when they rose in the
air, the noise made by their wings was so great as to deafen a person.

Our seamen loaded two boats full of the eggs in three hours, and all in the fleet feasted for
several days on such as had not yet been spoiled by the warmth of the birds' bodies.

It was on the next day that we left behind us those islands which Captain Smith told me were
the West Indies, and the seaman who stood at the helm when I came on deck to get water for
my master, said we were steering a northerly course, which would soon bring us to the land
of Virginia.

THE TEMPEST

On that very night, however, such a tempest of wind and of rain came upon us that I was not
the only one who believed the Susan Constant must be crushed like an eggshell under the great
mountains of water which at times rolled completely over her, so flooding the decks that but
few could venture out to do whatsoever of work was needed to keep the ship afloat. After this
fierce tempest, when the Lord permitted that even our pinnace should ride in safety, it was
believed that we were come near to the new world, and by day and by night the seamen stood
at the rail, throwing the lead every few minutes in order to discover if we were venturing
into shoal water.

Nathaniel and I used to stand by watching them, and wishing that we might be allowed to throw
the line, but never quite getting up our courage to say so, knowing full well we should probably
make a tangle of it.

THE NEW COUNTRY SIGHTED

As Master George Percy has set down in the writings which I have copied for him since we came
to Virginia, it was on the twenty-sixth day of April, in the year of our Lord 1607, at about
four o'clock in the morning, when we were come within sight of that land where were to be built
homes, not only for our company of one hundred and five, counting the boys, but for all who
should come after us.

It was while the ship lay off the land, her decks crowded with our company who fain would get
the first clear view of that country in which they were to live, if the savages permitted,
that I asked my master who among the gentlemen of the cabin was the leader in this adventure.

To my surprise, he told me that it was not yet known. The London Company had made an election
of those among the gentlemen who should form the new government, and had written down the names,
together with instructions as to what should be done; but this writing was enclosed in a box
which was not to be opened until we had come to the end of our voyage.

THE LEADER NOT KNOWN

There could be no doubt but that Captain Kendall and Captain Martin both believed that when
the will of the London Company was made known, it would be found they stood in high command;
but there was in my heart a great hope that my master might have been named. Yet when I put
the matter to him in so many words, he treated the matter lightly, saying it could hardly be,
else they had not dared to treat him thus shamefully.

However, it was soon to be known, if the commands of the London Company were obeyed, for now
we had come to this new land of Virginia, and the time was near at hand when would be opened
the box containing the names of those who were to be officers in the town we hoped soon to build.

As for myself, I was so excited it seemed impossible to remain quiet many seconds in one place,
and I fear that my duties, which consisted only in waiting upon the prisoner, my master, were
sadly neglected because of the anxiety in my mind to know who the merchants in London had named
as rulers of the settlement about to be made in the new world.

One would have believed from Captain Smith's manner that he had no concern whatsoever as to
the result of all this wickedness and scheming, for it was neither more nor less than such,
as I looked at the matter, on the part of Captain Kendall and Captain Martin.

Here we were in sight of the new world, at a place where we were to live all the remainder
of our lives, and he a prisoner in chains; but yet never a word of complaint came from his lips.

ARRIVAL AT CHESAPEAKE BAY

When the day had fully dawned, and the fleet stood in toward the noble bay, between two capes,
which were afterward named Cape Henry and Cape Comfort, Captain Smith directed me to go on
deck, in order to keep him informed of what might be happening.

He told me there was no question in his mind but that we were come to the mouth of Chesapeake
Bay, where it had been agreed with the London merchants we were to go on shore.

Standing at the head of the companionway, but not venturing out on deck lest I should be sent
to some other part of the ship, and thus be unable to give my master the information which
he desired, I looked out upon what seemed to me the most goodly land that could be found in
all the wide world.

Trees there were of size fit for masts to the king's ships; flowers bordered the shore until
there were seemingly great waves of this color, or of that, as far as eye could reach, and
set within this dazzling array of green and gold, and of red and yellow, was a great sea, which
Captain Smith said was called the Chesapeake Bay.

We entered for some distance, mayhap three or four miles, before coming to anchor, and then
Master Wingfield, Captain Gosnold, and Captain Newport went on shore with a party of thirty,
made up of seamen and gentlemen, and my master, who had not so much as stretched his legs since
we sailed from Martinique, was left in his narrow cabin with none but me to care for him!

I had thought they would open the box containing the instructions from London, before doing
anything else; but Captain Smith was of the mind that such business could wait until they had
explored sufficiently to find a place where the new town might be built.

It was a long, weary, anxious day for me. The party had left the ship in the morning, remaining
absent until nightfall, and at least four or five times every hour did I run up from the cabin
to gaze shoreward in the hope of seeing them return, for I was most eager to have the business
pushed forward, and to know whether my master's enemies were given, by the London Company,
permission to do whatsoever they pleased.

AN ATTACK BY THE SAVAGES

Just after sunset, and before the darkness of night closed in, those who had been on shore
came back very hurriedly and in disorder, bringing with them in the foremost boat, two wounded men.

"They have had a battle with some one, Master," I reported, before yet the boats were come
alongside, and for the first time that day did Captain Smith appear to be deeply concerned.
I heard him say as if to himself, not intending that the words should reach me:

"Lack of caution in dealing with the savages is like to cost us dearly."

Half an hour later I heard all the story from Nathaniel Peacock, who had believed himself fortunate
when he was allowed to accompany the party on shore.

According to his account, the company from the fleet roamed over much of the land during the
day, finding fair meadows and goodly trees, with streams of fresh water here and there bespeaking
fish in abundance.

Nothing was seen or heard to disturb our people until the signal had been given for all to
go on board the boats, that they might return to the ships, and then it was that a number of
naked, brown men, creeping upon their hands and knees like animals, with bows and arrows held
between their teeth, came out suddenly from amid the foliage to the number, as Nathaniel declared,
of not less than an hundred.

While the white men stood dismayed, awaiting some order from those who chose to call themselves
leaders, the savages shot a multitude of arrows into the midst of the company, wounding Captain
Gabriel Archer in both his hands, and dangerously hurting one of the seamen.

Captain Gosnold gave command for the firearms to be discharged, whereupon the savages disappeared
suddenly, and without delay our people returned to the fleet.

READING THE LONDON COMPANY'S ORDERS

An hour later, when those who had just come from the shore had been refreshed with food, I
noted with much of anxiety that all the gentlemen of the company, not only such as belonged
on board the Susan Constant, but those from the Speedwell, gathered in the great cabin of our
ship, and, looking out ever so cautiously, while the door of Captain Smith's room was ajar,
I saw them gather around the big table on which, as if it were something of greatest value,
was placed a box made of some dark colored wood.

It was Master Hunt who opened this, and, taking out a paper, he read in a voice so loud that
even my master, as he lay in his narrow bed, could hear the names of those who were chosen
by the London Company to form the Council for the government of the new land of Virginia.

My heart seemingly leaped into my throat with triumph when I thus heard the name of my master
among those who were to stand as leaders of the company, and so excited had I become that that
which Master Hunt read from the remainder of the paper failed to attract my attention.

I learned afterward, however, that among the rules governing the actions of this Council, was
one that a President should be chosen each year, and that matters of moment were to be determined
by vote of the Council, in which the President might cast two ballots.

It was when Master Hunt ceased reading that I believed my master would be set free without
delay, for of a verity he had the same right to take part in the deliberations as any other,
since it was the will of the London Company that he should be one of the leaders; but much
to my surprise nothing of the kind was done. Captain Kendall, seeing the door of my master's
room slightly open, arose from the table and closed it, as if he were about to say something
which should not be heard by Captain Smith.

I would have opened the door again, but that my master bade me leave it closed, and when an
hour or more had passed, Master Hunt came in to us, stating that it had not yet been decided
by the other members of the Council whether Captain Smith should be allowed to take part in
the affairs, as the London Company had decided, or whether he should be sent home for judgment
when the fleet returned. But meanwhile he was to have his liberty.

Then it was that Master Hunt, talking like the true man he ever showed himself to be, advised
Captain Smith to do in all things, so far as the other members of the Council permitted, as
if nothing had gone awry, claiming that before we had been many days in this land, those who
had brought charges against him would fail of making them good.

Had I been the one thus so grievously injured, the whole company might have shipwrecked themselves
before I would have raised a hand, all of which goes to show that I had not learned to rule
my temper.

Captain Smith, however, agreed with all Master Hunt said, and then it was that I was sent forward
once more. My master went on deck for the first time since we had left Martinique, walking
to and fro swiftly, as if it pleased him to have command of his legs once more.

If Master Hunt and Master Wingfield had been able to bring the others around to their way of
thinking, Captain Smith would have taken his rightful place in the Council without delay. Instead
of which, however, he remained on board the ship idle, when there was much that he could have
done better than any other, from the day on which we came in sight of Virginia, which was the
fifteenth day of April, until the twenty-sixth day of June.

During all this time, those of the Council who were his enemies claimed that they could prove
he had laid plans to murder all the chief men, and take his place as king; but yet they did
not do so, and my master refused to hold any parley with them, except that he claimed he was
innocent of all wrong in thought or in act.

When the others of the fleet set off to spy out the land, my master remained aboard the ship,
still being a prisoner, except so far that he wore no fetters, and I would not have left him
save he had commanded me sharply, for at that time, so sore was his heart, that even a lad
like me could now and then say some word which might have in it somewhat of cheer.

During this time that Captain Smith was with the company and yet not numbered as one of them,
the other gentlemen explored the country, and more than once was Nathaniel Peacock allowed
to accompany them, therefore did I hear much which otherwise would not have been told me.

And what happened during these two months when the gentlemen were much the same as quarreling
among themselves, I shall set down in as few words as possible, to the end that I may the sooner
come to that story of our life in the new village, which some called James Fort, and others
James Town, after King James of England.

EXPLORING THE COUNTRY

When the shallop had been taken out of the hold of the Susan Constant, and put together by
the Carpenters, our people explored the shores of the bay and the broad streams running into
it, meeting with savages here and there, and holding some little converse with them. A few
were found to be friendly, while others appeared to think we were stealing their land by thus
coming among them.

One of the most friendly of the savages, so Nathaniel said, having shown by making marks on
the ground with his foot that he wished to tell our people about the country, and having been
given a pen and paper, drew a map of the river with great care, putting in the islands and
waterfalls and mountains that our men would come to, and afterward he even brought food to
our people such as wheat and little sweet nuts and berries.

I myself would have been pleased to go on shore and see these strange people, but not being
able to do so save at the cost of leaving my master, I can only repeat some of the curious
things which Nathaniel Peacock told me. It must be known that there was more than one nation,
or tribe, of savages in this new land of Virginia, and each had its king or chief, who was
called the werowance. I might set down the names of these tribes, and yet it would be so much
labor lost, because they are more like fanciful than real words. As, for example, there were
the Paspaheghes, whose werowance was seemingly more friendly to our people than were the others.

Again, there were the Rapahannas, who wore the legs of birds through holes in their ears, and
had all the hair on the right side of their heads shaven closely.

It gives them much pleasure to dance, so Nathaniel said, he having seen them jumping around
more like so many wolves, rather than human beings, for the space of half an hour, shouting
and singing all the while.

All the Indians smoked an herb called tobacco, which grows abundantly in this land, and I have
Nathaniel's word for it that one savage had a tobacco pipe nearly a yard long, with the device
of a deer carved at the great end of it big enough to dash out one's brains with.

There is very much more which might be said about these savages that would be of interest;
but I am minded now to leave such stories for others to tell, and come to the day when Captain
Newport was ready to sail with the Susan Constant and the Goodspeed back to England, for his
share in the adventure was only to bring us over from England, after which he had agreed to return.

The pinnace was to be left behind for the use of us who remained in the strange land. Before
this time, meaning the thirteenth day of May, the members of the Council had decided upon the
place where we were to build our village. It was to be in the country of the Paspahegh Indians,
at a certain spot near the shore where the water runs so deep that our ships can lie moored
to the trees in six fathoms.

THE PEOPLE LAND FROM THE SHIPS

Then it was that all the people went on shore, some to set up the tents of cloth which we had
brought with us to serve as shelters before houses could be built; others to lay out a fort,
which it was needed should be made as early as possible because of the savages, and yet a certain
other number being told off to stand guard against the brown men, who had already shown that
they could be most dangerous enemies.

My master went ashore, as a matter of course, with the others, I sticking close to his side;
but neither of us taking any part in the work which had been begun, because the charges of
wickedness were still hanging over his head.

Had Captain Smith been allowed a voice in the Council, certain it is he never would have chosen
this place in which to make the town, for he pointed out to me that the land lay so low that
when the river was at its height the dampness must be great, and, therefore, exceeding unhealthful,
while there was back of it such an extent of forest, as made it most difficult to defend, in
case the savages came against us.

Captain Smith aided me in building for ourselves a hut in front of an overhanging rock, with
the branches of trees. It was a poor shelter at the best; but he declared it would serve us
until such time as he was given his rightful place among the people, or had been sent back
a prisoner to England.

CAPTAIN SMITH PROVEN INNOCENT

This served us as a living place for many days, or until my master was come into his own, as
he did before the fort was finished, when, on one certain morning, he demanded of the other
members of the Council that they put him on trial to learn whether the charges could be proven
or not, and this was done on the day before Captain Newport was to take the ships back to England.

There is little need for me to say that Captain Kendall's stories of the plot, in which he
said my master was concerned, came to naught. There were none to prove that he had ever spoken
of such a matter, and the result of the trial was that they gave him his rightful place at
the head of the company. Before many months were passed, all came to know that but for him
the white people in Jamestown would have come to their deaths.

WE WHO WERE LEFT BEHIND

It was on the fifteenth day of June when the ships sailed out of the Chesapeake Bay, leaving
on the banks of the river we called the James, a hundred men and boys, all told, to hold their
lives and their liberty against thousands upon thousands of naked savages, who had already
shown that they desired to be enemies rather than friends. Even in the eyes of a boy, it was
an odd company to battle with the savages and the wilderness, for the greater number were those
who called themselves gentlemen, and who believed it beneath their station to do any labor
whatsoever, therefore did it seem to me that this new town would be burdened sorely with so
many drones.

Master Hunt, the preacher, could in good truth call himself a gentleman, and yet I myself saw
him, within two hours after we were landed, nailing a piece of timber between two trees that
he might stretch a square of sailcloth over it, thus making what served as the first church
in the country of Virginia. Yet Captain Smith has said again and again, that the discourses
of Master Hunt under that poor shelter of cloth, were, to his mind, more like the real praising
of God, than any he had ever heard in the costly buildings of the old world.

For the better understanding of certain things which happened to us after we had begun to build
the village of Jamestown, it should be remembered that of all the savages in the country roundabout,
the most friendly were those who lived in the same settlement with Powhatan, who was, so Captain
Smith said, the true head and king of all the Indians in Virginia.

BAKING BREAD WITHOUT OVENS

It was in this town of Powhatan's that I discovered how to bake bread without an oven or other
fire than what might be built on the open ground, and it was well I had my eyes open at that
time, otherwise Captain Smith and I had gone supperless to bed again and again, for there were
many days when our stomachs cried painfully because of emptiness.

While my master was talking with the king, Powhatan, on matters concerning affairs at Jamestown,
I saw an Indian girl, whose name I afterward came to know was Pocahontas, making bread, and
observed her carefully. She had white meal, but whether of barley, or the wheat called Indian
corn, or Guinny wheat I could not say, and this she mixed into a paste with hot water; making
it of such thickness that it could easily be rolled into little balls or cakes.

After the mixture had been thus shaped, she dropped the balls into a pot of boiling water,
letting them stay there until well soaked, when she laid them on a smooth stone in front of
the fire until they had hardened and browned like unto bread that has been cooked in the oven.

But I have set myself to the task of telling how we of Jamestown lived during that time when
my master was much the same as the head of the government, and it is not well to begin the
story with bread making.

AN UNEQUAL DIVISION OF LABOR

First I must explain upon what terms these people, the greater number of whom called themselves
gentlemen, and therefore claimed to be ashamed to labor with their hands, had come together
under control of those merchants in London, who were known as the London Company.

No person in the town of James was allowed to own any land except as he had his share of the
whole. Every one was expected to work for the good of the village, and whatsoever of crops
was raised, belonged to all the people. It was not permitted that the more industrious should
plant the land and claim that which grew under their toil.

Ours was supposed to be one big family, with each laboring to help the others at the same time
he helped himself, and the result was that those who worked only a single hour each day, had
as much of the general stores as he who remained in the field from morning until night.

Although my master had agreed to this plan before the fleet sailed from England, he soon came
to understand that it was not the best for a new land, where it was needed that each person
should labor to the utmost of his powers.

The London Company had provided a certain number of tents made of cloth, which were supposed
to be enough to give shelter to all the people, and yet, because those who had charge of the
matter had made a mistake, through ignorance or for the sake of gain, there were no more than
would provide for the members of the Council, who appeared to think they should be lodged in
better fashion than those who were not in authority.

My master could well have laid claim to one of these cloth houses; but because of the charges
which had been made against him by Captain Kendall and Captain Martin, the sting of which yet
remained, he chose to live by himself. Thus it was that he and I threw up the roof of branches
concerning which I have spoken; but it was only to shelter us until better could be built.

BUILDING A HOUSE OF LOGS

While the others were hunting here and there for the gold which it had been said could be picked
up in Virginia as one gathers acorns in the old world, Captain Smith set about making a house
of logs such as would protect him from the storms of winter as well as from the summer sun.

This he did by laying four logs on the ground in the form of a square, and so cutting notches
in the ends of each that when it was placed on the top of another, and at right angles with
it, the hewn portions would interlock, one with the other, holding all firmly in place. On
top of these, other huge tree trunks were laid with the same notching of the ends. It was a
vast amount of labor, thus to roll up the heavy logs in the form of a square until a pen or
box had been made as high as a man's head, and then over that was built a roof of logs fastened
together with wooden pins, or pegs, for iron nails were all too scarce and costly to be used
for such purpose.

When the house had been built thus far, the roof was formed of no more than four or five logs
on which a thatching of grass was to be laid later, and the ends, in what might be called the
"peak of the roof," were open to the weather. Then it was that roughly hewn planks, or logs
split into three or four strips, called puncheons, were pegged with wooden nails on the sides,
or ends, where doors or windows were to be made.

Then the space inside this framework was sawed out, and behold you had a doorway, or the opening
for a window, to be filled in afterward as time and material with which to work might permit.

After this had been done, the ends under the roof were covered with yet more logs, sawn to
the proper length and pegged together, until, save for the crevices between the timbers, the
whole gave protection against the weather.

Then came the work of thatching the roof, which was done by the branches of trees, dried grass,
or bark. My master put on first a layer of branches from which the leaves had been stripped,
and over that we laid coarse grass to the depth of six or eight inches, binding the same down
with small saplings running from one side to the other, to the number of ten on each slope
of the roof. To me was given the task of closing up the crevices between the logs with mud
and grass mixed, and this I did the better because Nathaniel Peacock worked with me, doing
his full share of the labor.

KEEPING HOUSE

When we came ashore from the ships, no one claimed Nathaniel as servant, and he, burning to
be in my company, asked Captain Smith's permission to enter his employ. My master replied that
it had not been in his mind there should be servants and lords in this new world of Virginia,
where one was supposed to be on the same footing as another; but if Nathaniel were minded to
live under the same roof with us, and would cheerfully perform his full share of the labor,
it might be as he desired.

Because our house was the first to be put up in the new village, and, being made of logs, was
by far the best shelter, even in comparison with the tents of cloth, Nathaniel and I decided
that it should be the most homelike, if indeed that could be compassed where were no women
to keep things cleanly. I am in doubt as to whether Captain Smith, great traveler and brave
adventurer though he was, had even realized that with only men to perform the household duties,
there would be much lack of comfort.

The floor of the house was only the bare earth beaten down hard. We lads made brooms, by tying
the twigs of trees to a stick, which was not what might be called a good makeshift, and yet
with such we kept the inside of our home far more cleanly than were some of the tents. 

"How come Lawyer Morgan doesn't take his wife anywhere?"

"He isn't married. miss Rood is the closest thing to a wife. Oh, don't be shocked. She's a
most proper spinster, and he's quite a proper old gentleman, actually."

"Are
they related?"

From the very first day we came ashore, good Master Hunt went about urging that great effort
be made to keep the houses, and the paths around them, cleanly, saying that unless we did so,
there was like to be a sickness come among us. With some his preaching did good, but by far
the greater number, and these chiefly to be found among the self called gentlemen, gave no heed.

It was as if these lazy ones delighted in filth. Again and again have I seen one or another
throw the scrapings of the trencher bowls just outside the door of the tent or hut, where those
who came or went must of a necessity tread upon them, and one need not struggle hard to realize
what soon was the condition of the village.

After a heavy shower many of the paths were covered ankle deep with filth of all kinds, and
when the sun shone warm and bright, the stench was too horrible to be described by ordinary words.

CAVE HOMES

There were other kinds of homes, and quite a number of them, that were made neither of cloth
nor of logs. These were holes dug in the side of small hillocks until a sleeping room had been
made, when the front part was covered with brush or logs, built outward from the hill to form
a kitchen.

During a storm these cave homes were damp, often times actually muddy, and those who slept
therein were but inviting the mortal sickness that came all too soon among us, until it was
as if the Angel of Death had taken possession of Jamestown.

Captain Smith said everything he could to persuade these people, who were content to live in
a hole in the ground, that they were little better than beasts of the field.

But so long as the foolish ones continued to believe this new world was much the same as filled
with gold and silver, so long they wasted their time searching.

THE GOLDEN FEVER

But for this golden fever, which attacked the gentlemen more fiercely than it did the common
people, the story of Jamestown would not have been one of disaster brought about by willful
heedlessness and stupidity.

Again and again did Captain Smith urge that crops be planted, while it was yet time, in order
that there might be food at hand when the winter came; but he had not yet been allowed to take
his place in the Council, and those who had the thirst for gold strong upon them, taunted him
with the fact that he had no right to raise his voice above the meanest of the company. They
refused to listen when he would have spoken with them as a friend, and laughed him to scorn
when he begged that they take heed to their own lives.

I cannot understand why our people were so crazy. Even though Nathaniel and I were but lads,
with no experience of adventure such as was before us, we could realize that unless a man plants
he may not reap, and because we had been hungry many a time in London town, we knew full well
that when the season had passed there was like to be a famine among us.

I can well understand, now that I am a man grown, why our people were so careless regarding
the future, for everywhere around us was food in plenty. Huge flocks of wild swans circled
above our heads, trumpeting the warning that winter would come before gold could be found.
Wild geese, cleaving the air in wedge shaped line, honked harshly that the season for gathering
stores of food was passing, while at times, on a dull morning, it was as if the waters of the
bay were covered completely with ducks of many kinds.

DUCKS AND OYSTERS

I have heard Captain Smith say more than once, that he had seen flocks of ducks a full mile
wide and five or six miles long, wherein canvasbacks, mallard, widgeon, redheads, dottrel,
sheldrake, and teal swam wing to wing, actually crowding each other. When such flocks rose
in the air, the noise made by their wings was like unto the roaring of a tempest at sea.

Then there was bed after bed of oysters, many of which were uncovered at ebb tide, when a hungry
man might stand and eat his fill of shellfish, never one of them less than six inches long,
and many twice that size. It is little wonder that the gold crazed men refused to listen while
my master warned them that the day might come when they would be hungry to the verge of starvation.

Now perhaps you will like to hear how we two lads, bred in London town, with never a care as
to how our food had been cooked, so that we had enough with which to fill our stomachs, made
shift to prepare meals that could be eaten by Captain Smith, for so we did after taking counsel
with the girl Pocahontas from Powhatan's village.

ROASTING OYSTERS

In the first place, the shell fish called oysters are readily cooked, or may be eaten raw with
great satisfaction. I know not what our people of Virginia would have done without them, and
yet it was only by chance or accident that we came to learn how nourishing they are.

A company of our gentlemen had set off to explore the country very shortly after we came ashore
from the fleet, and while going through that portion of the forest which borders upon the bay,
happened upon four savages who were cooking something over the fire.

The Indians ran away in alarm, and, on coming up to discover what the brown men had which was
good to eat, the explorers found a large number of oysters roasting on the coals. Through curiosity,
one of our gentlemen tasted of the fish, and, much to his surprise, found it very agreeable
to the stomach.

Before telling his companions the result of his experiment, he ate all the oysters that had
been cooked, which were more than two dozen large ones, and then, instead of exploring the
land any further on that day, our gentlemen spent their time gathering and roasting the very
agreeable fish.

As a matter of course, the news of this discovery spread throughout the settlement, and straightway
every person was eating oysters; but they soon tired of them, hankering after wheat of some kind.

Among those who served some of the gentlemen even as Nathaniel and I aimed to serve Captain
Smith, was James Brumfield, a lazy, shiftless lad near to seventeen years old. Being hungry,
and not inclined to build a fire, because it would be necessary to gather fuel, he ventured
to taste of a raw oyster. Finding it pleasant to the mouth, he actually gorged himself until
sickness put an end to the gluttonous meal.

It can thus be seen that even though Nathaniel and I had never been apprenticed to a cook,
it was not difficult for us to serve our master with oysters roasted or raw, laid on that which
answered in the stead of a table, in their own shells.

LEARNING TO COOK OTHER THINGS

Then again the Indian girl had shown us how to boil beans, peas, Indian corn, and pumpkins
together, making a kind of porridge which is most pleasant, and affords a welcome change from
oysters; but the great drawback is that we are not able to come at the various things needed
for the making of it, except when our gentlemen have been fortunate in trading with the brown
men, which is not often.

This Indian corn, pounded and boiled until soft, is a dish Captain Smith eats of with an appetite,
provided it is well salted, and one does not need to be a king's cook in order to make it ready
for the table. The pounding is the hardest and most difficult portion of the task, for the
kernels are exceeding flinty, and fly off at a great distance when struck a glancing blow.

Nathaniel and I have brought inside our house a large, flat rock, on which we pound the corn,
and one of us is kept busy picking up the grains that fly here and there as if possessed of
an evil spirit. Newsamp is the name which the savages give to this cooking of wheat.

I have an idea that when we get a mill for grinding, it will be possible to break the kernels
easily and quickly between the millstones, without crushing a goodly portion of them to meal.

When the Indian corn is young, that is to say, before it has grown hard, the ears as plucked
from the stalks may be roasted before the coals with great profit, and when we would give our
master something unusually pleasing, Nathaniel and I go abroad in search of the gardens made
by the savages, where we may get, by bargaining, a supply of roasting ears.

With a trencher of porridge, and a dozen roasting ears, together with a half score of the bread
balls such as I have already written about, Captain Smith can satisfy his hunger with great
pleasure, and then it is that he declares he has the most comfortable home in all Virginia,
thanks to his "houseboys," as he is pleased to call us.

THE SWEET POTATO ROOT

The Indians have roots, which some of our gentlemen call sweet potatoes, which are by no means
unpleasant to the taste, the only difficulty being that we cannot get any great quantity of
them. Our master declares that when we make a garden, this root shall be the first thing planted,
and after it has ripened, we will have some cooked every day.

Nathaniel and I have no trouble in preparing the root, for it may be roasted in the ashes,
boiled into a pudding which should be well salted, or mixed with the meal of Indian corn and
made into a kind of sweet cake.

However, we lads have not had good success in baking this last dish, because of the ashes which
fly out of the fire when the wind blows ever so slightly. Captain Smith declares that he would
rather have the ashes without the meal and sweet potato, if indeed he must eat any, but of
course when he speaks thus, it is only in the way of making sport.

Captain Kendall, who, because he has made two voyages to the Indies, believes himself a wondrously
wise man, says that he who eats sweet potatoes at least once each day will not live above seven
years, and he who eats them twice every day will become blind, after which all his teeth will
drop out.

Because of this prediction, many of our gentlemen are not willing even so much as to taste
of the root, but Captain Smith says that wise men may grow fat where fools starve, therefore
he gathers up all the sweet potatoes which the others have thrown away, for they please him
exceeding well.

A TOUCH OF HOMESICKNESS

There is no need for me to say that it makes both Nathaniel and me glad to be praised by our
master, because we keep the house cleanly and strive to serve the food in such a manner as
not to offend the eye; but we would willingly dispense with such welcome words if thereby it
would be possible to see a woman messing around the place.

Strive as boys may, they cannot attend to household matters as do girls or women, who have
been brought into the world knowing how to perform such tasks, and it is more homelike to see
them around.

Nathaniel and I often picture to each other what this village of Jamestown would be if in each
camp, cave, or log hut a woman was in command, and ever when we talk thus comes into my heart
a sickness for the old homes of England, even though after my mother died there was none for
me; but yet it would do me a world of good even to look upon a housewife. A most friendly gentleman
is Master Hunt, and even though he is so far above me in station, I never fail of getting a
kindly greeting when I am so fortunate as to meet him. He comes often to see Captain Smith,
for the two talk long and earnestly over the matter of the Council, and at such times it is
as if he went out of his way to give me a good word.

MASTER HUNT'S PREACHING

Therefore it is that I go to hear him preach whenever the people are summoned to a meeting
beneath the square of canvas in the wood, and more than once I have heard from him that which
has taken the sickness for home out of my heart. "Kit, are you going somewhere?", She asked him
in a small voice.
He overly bowed, and responded, "To the Golden Hind, O tender, enduring,
and wrongfully accused virgin martyr, so that now this is which you
choose to posture."

More than once have I heard Master Hunt say, while talking privately with my master, that there
would be greater hope for this village of ours if we had more laborers and less gentlemen,
for in a new land it is only work that can win in the battle against the savages and the wilderness.

Four carpenters, one blacksmith, two bricklayers, a mason, a sailor, a barber, a tailor, and
a drummer make up the list of skilled workmen, if, indeed, one who can do nothing save drum
may be called a laborer. To these may be added twelve serving men and four boys. All the others
are gentlemen, or, as Master Hunt puts it, drones expecting to live through the mercy of God
whom they turn their backs upon.

NEGLECTING TO PROVIDE FOR THE FUTURE

The one thing which seemed most surprising to us lads, after Captain Smith had called it to
our notice, was that these people, who knew there could be no question but that the winter
would find them in Jamestown, when there could be neither roasting ears, peas, beans, nor fowls
of the air to be come at, made no provision for a harvest.

Captain Smith, not being allowed to raise his voice in the Council, could only speak as one
whose words have little weight, since he was not in authority; but he lost no opportunity of
telling these gold seekers that only those who sowed might reap, and unless seed was put into
the ground, there would be no crops to serve as food during the winter.

Even Master Wingfield, the President of the Council, refused to listen when my master would
have spoken to him as a friend. He gave more heed to exploring the land, than to what might
be our fate in the future. He would not even allow the gentlemen to make such a fort as might
withstand an assault by the savages, seeming to think it of more importance to know what was
to be found on the banks of this river or of that, than to guard against those brown people
who daily gave token of being unfriendly.

The serving men and laborers were employed in making clapboards that we might have a cargo
with which to fill one of Captain Newport's ships when he returned from England, according
to the plans of the London Company. The gentlemen roamed here or there, seeking the yellow
metal which had much the same as caused a madness among them; and, save in the case of Master
Hunt and Captain Smith, none planted even the smallest garden.

SURPRISED BY SAVAGES

The fort, as it was called, had been built only of the branches of trees, and might easily
have been overrun by savages bent on doing us harm.

It was while Master Wingfield, with thirty of the gentlemen, was gone to visit Powhatan's village,
and the others were hunting for gold, leaving only my master and the preacher to look after
the serving men and the laborers, that upward of an hundred naked savages suddenly came down
upon us, counting to make an end of all who were in the town.

It was a most fearsome sight to see the brown men, their bodies painted with many colors, carrying
bows and arrows, dash out from among the trees bent on taking our lives, and for what seemed
a very long while our people ran here and there like ants whose nest has been broken in upon.

Captain Smith gave no heed to his own safety; but shouted for all to take refuge in our house
of logs, while Master Hunt did what he might to aid in the defence; yet, because there had
been no exercise at arms, nor training, that each should know what was his part at such a time,
seventeen of the people were wounded, some grievously, and one boy, James Brumfield of whom
I have already spoken, was killed by an arrow piercing his eye.

STRENGTHENING THE FORT

Next day, when Master Wingfield and his following came in, none the better for having gone
to Powhatan's village, all understood that it would have been wiser had they listened to my
master when he counseled them to take exercise at arms, and straightway all the men were set
about making a fort with a palisade, which last is the name for a fence built of logs set on
end, side by side, in the ground, and rising so high that the enemy may not climb over it.
This work took all the time of the laborers until the summer was gone, and in the meanwhile
the gentlemen made use of the stores left us by the fleet, until there remained no more than
one half pint of wheat to each man for a day's food.

The savages strove by day and by night to murder us, till it was no longer safe to go in search
of oysters or wildfowl, and from wheat which had lain so long in the holds of the ships that
nearly every grain in it had a worm, did we get our only nourishment.

The labor of building the palisade was most grievous, and it was not within the power of man
to continue it while eating such food; therefore the sickness came upon us, when it was as
if all had been condemned to die.

A TIME OF SICKNESS AND DEATH

The first who went out from among us, was John Asbie, on the sixth of August. Three days later
George Flowers followed him. On the tenth of the same month William Bruster, one of the gentlemen,
died of a wound given by the savages while he was searching for gold, and two others laid down
their lives within the next eight and forty hours.

Then the deaths came rapidly, gentlemen as well as serving men or laborers, until near eighty
of our company were either in the grave, or unable to move out of such shelters as served as
houses.

A great fear came upon all, save that my master held his head as high as ever, and went here
and there with Master Hunt to do what he might toward soothing the sick and comforting the dying.

It was on the twentieth day of August when Captain Bartholomew Gosnold, one of the Council,
died, and then Master Wingfield forgot all else save his own safety. More than one in our village
declared that he was making ready the pinnace that he might run away from us, as if the Angel
of Death could be escaped from by flight.

It was starvation brought about by sheer neglect, together with lying upon the bare ground
and drinking of the river water, which by this time was very muddy, that had brought us to
such a pass.

Save for the king, Powhatan, and some few of the other savages in authority, we must all have
died; but when there were only five in all our company able to stand without aid, God touched
the hearts of these Indians. They, who had lately been trying to kill us, suddenly came to
do what they might toward saving our lives after a full half of the company were in the grave.

They brought food such as was needed to nourish us, and within a short time the greater number
of us who were left alive, could go about, but only with difficulty. It was a time of terror,
of suffering, and of close acquaintance with death such as I cannot set down in words, for
even at this late day the thought of what we then endured chills my heart.

When we had been restored to health and strength, and were no longer hungry, thanks to those
who had been our bitter enemies, the chief men of the village began to realize that my master
had not only given good advice on all occasions, but stood among them bravely when the President
of the Council was making preparations to run away.

CAPTAIN SMITH GAINS AUTHORITY

There was but little idle talk made by the members of the Council in deciding that Master Wingfield
should be deprived of his office, and Master Ratcliffe set in his place. Captain Smith was
called upon to take his proper position in the government, and, what was more, to him they
gave the direction of all matters outside the town, which was much the same as putting him
in authority over even the President himself.

It was greatly to my pleasure that Captain Smith lost no time in exercising the power which
had been given him. Nor was he at all gentle in dealing with those men who disdained to soil
their hands by working, yet were willing to spend one day, and every day, searching for gold,
without raising a finger toward adding to the general store, but at the same time claiming
the right to have so much of food as would not only satisfy their hunger, but minister to their
gluttony.

Nathaniel and I heard our master talking over the matter with the preacher, on the night the
Council had given him full charge of everything save the dealings which might be had later
with the London Company, therefore it was that we knew there would be different doings on the
morrow.

Greatly did we rejoice thereat, for Jamestown had become as slovenly and ill kempt a village
as ever the sun shone upon.

Now it must be set down that these gentlemen of ours, when not searching for gold, were wont
to play at bowls in the lanes and paths, that they might have amusement while the others were
working, and woe betide the serving man or laborer, who by accident interfered with their sports.

On this day, after the conversation with Master Hunt, all was changed. Captain Smith began
his duties as guardian and director of the village by causing it to be proclaimed through the
mouth of Nicholas Skot, our drummer, that there would be no more playing at bowls in the streets
of Jamestown while it was necessary that very much work should be performed, and this spoken
notice also stated, that whosoever dared to disobey the command should straightway be clapped
into the stocks.

DISAGREEABLE MEASURES OF DISCIPLINE

Lest there should be any question as to whether my master intended to carry out this threat
or no, William Laxon, one of the carpenters, was forthwith set to work building stocks in front
of the tent where lived Master Ratcliffe, the new President of the Council. Nor was this the
only change disagreeable to our gentlemen, which Captain Smith brought about. No sooner had
Nicholas Skot proclaimed the order that whosoever played at bowls should be set in the stocks,
than he was commanded to turn about and announce with all the strength of his lungs, so that
every one in the village might hear and understand, that those who would not work should not
have whatsoever to eat.

Verily this was a hard blow to the gentlemen of our company, who prided themselves upon never
having done with their hands that which was useful. One would have thought my master had made
this rule for his own particular pleasure, for straightway those of the gentlemen who could
least hold their tempers in check, gathered in the tent which Master Wingfield had taken for
his own, and there agreed among themselves that if Captain Smith persisted in such brutal rule,
they would overturn all the authority in the town, and end by setting the Captain himself in
the stocks which William Laxon was then making. It so chanced that Master Hunt overheard these
threats at the time they were made, and, like a true friend and good citizen, reported the
same to Captain Smith.

Whereupon my master chose a certain number from among those of the gentlemen who had become
convinced that sharp measures were necessary if we of Jamestown would live throughout the winter,
commanding that they make careful search of every tent, cave, hut or house in the village,
taking therefrom all that was eatable, and storing it in the log house which had been put up
for the common use.

Then he appointed Kellam Throgmorton, a gentleman who was well able to hold his own against
any who might attempt to oppose him, to the office of guardian of the food, giving strict orders
that nothing whatsoever which could be eaten, should be given to those who did not present
good proof of having done a full day's labor.

Of course the people who lay sick were excused from such order, and Master Hunt was chosen
to make up a list of those who must be fed, yet who were not able to work by reason of illness.

SIGNS OF REBELLION

Now it can well be understood that such measures as these caused no little in the way of rebellion,
and during the two hours Nicholas Skot cried the proclamation through the streets and lanes
of the village, the gentlemen who had determined to resist Captain Smith were in a fine state
of ferment.

It was as if a company of crazy men had been suddenly let loose among us. Not content with
plotting secretly against my master, they must needs swagger about, advising others to join
them in their rebellion, and everywhere could be heard oaths and threats, in such language
as was like to cause honest men's hair to stand on end.

For a short time Nathaniel Peacock and I actually trembled with fear, believing the house of
logs would be pulled down over our heads, for no less than a dozen of the so called gentlemen
were raging and storming outside; but disturbing Captain Smith not one whit. He sat there,
furbishing his matchlock as if having nothing better with which to occupy the time; but, as
can well be fancied, drinking in every word of mutiny which was uttered.

Then, as if he would saunter out for a stroll, the captain left the house, which was much the
same as inviting these disorderly ones to attack him; but they lacked the courage, for he went
to the fort without being molested.

THE SECOND PROCLAMATION

It seemed to me as if no more than half an hour had passed before Nicholas Skot was making
another proclamation, and this time to the effect that whosoever, after that moment, was heard
uttering profane words, should have a can full of cold water poured down his sleeve.

On hearing this, the unruly ones laughed in derision and straightway began to shout forth such
a volley of oaths as I had never heard during a drunken brawl in the streets of London.

It was not long, however, that they were thus allowed to shame decent people. Down from the
fort came Captain Smith, with six stout men behind him, and in a twinkling there was as hot
a fight within twenty paces of Master Ratcliffe's tent, as could be well imagined.

And the result of it all was, much to the satisfaction of Nathaniel and myself, that every
one of these men who had amused themselves by uttering the vilest of oaths, had a full can
of the coldest water that could be procured, poured down the sleeve of his doublet.

The method of doing it was comical, if one could forget how serious was the situation. Two
of my master's followers would pounce upon the fellow who was making the air blue with oaths,
and, throwing him to the ground, hold him there firmly while the third raised his arm and carefully
poured the water down the sleeve.

Now you may fancy that this was not very harsh treatment; but I afterward heard those who had
been thus punished, say that they would choose five or six stout lashes on their backs, rather
than take again such a dose as was dealt out on that day after John Smith was made captain
and commander, or whatsoever you choose to call his office, in the village of Jamestown.

BUILDING A FORTIFIED VILLAGE

There is little need for me to say that these were not the only reforms which my master brought
about, after having waited long enough for our lazy gentlemen to understand that unless they
set their hands to labor they could not eat from the general store.

He straightway set these idle ones to work building houses, declaring that if the sickness
which had come among us was to be checked, our people must no longer sleep upon the ground,
or in caves where the moisture gathered all around them.

He marked out places whereon log dwellings should be placed, in such manner that when the houses
had been set up, they would form a square, and, as I heard him tell Master Hunt, it was his
intention to have all the buildings surrounded by a palisade in which should be many gates.

Thus, when all was finished, he would have a fort-like village, wherein the people could rest
without fear of what the savages might be able to do.

By the time such work was well under way, and our gentlemen laboring as honest men should,
after learning that it was necessary so to do unless they were willing to go hungry, Captain
Smith set about adding to our store of food, for it was not to be supposed that we could depend
for any length of time upon what the Indians might give us, and the winter would be long.

TRAPPING TURKEYS

The wild turkeys had appeared in the forest in great numbers, but few had been killed by our
people because of the savages, many of whom were not to be trusted, even though the chiefs
of three tribes professed to be friendly. It was this fact which had prevented us from doing
much in the way of hunting.

Now that we were in such stress for food, and since all had turned laborers, whether willingly
or no, much in the way of provisions was needed. Captain Smith set about taking the turkeys
as he did about most other matters, which is to say, that it was done in a thorough manner.

Instead of being forced to spend at least one charge of powder for each fowl killed, he proposed
that we trap them, and showed how it might be done, according to his belief.

Four men were told off to do the work, and they were kept busy cutting saplings and trimming
them down until there was nothing left save poles from fifteen to twenty feet long. Then, with
these poles laid one above the other, a square pen was made, and at the top was a thatching
of branches, so that no fowl larger than a pigeon might go through.

From one side of this trap, or turkey pen, was dug a ditch perhaps two feet deep, and the same
in width, running straightway into the thicket where the turkeys were in the custom of roosting,
for a distance of twenty feet or more. This ditch was carried underneath the side of the pen,
where was an opening hardly more than large enough for one turkey to pass through. Corn was
scattered along the whole length of the ditch, and thus was the trap set.

The turkeys, on finding the trail of corn, would follow hurriedly along, like the gluttons
they are, with the idea of coming upon a larger hoard, and thus pass through into the pen.
Once inside they were trapped securely, for the wild turkey holds his head so high that he
can never see the way out through a hole which is at a level with his feet.

It was a most ingenious contrivance, and on the first morning after it had been set at night,
we had fifty plump fellows securely caged, when it was only necessary to enter the trap by
crawling through the top, and kill them at our leisure.

It may be asked how we made shift to cook such a thing as a turkey, other than by boiling it
in a kettle, and this can be told in very few words, for it was a simple matter after once
you had become accustomed to it.

A CRUDE KIND OF CHIMNEY

First you must know, however, that when our houses of logs had been built, we had nothing with
which to make a chimney such as one finds in London. We had no bricks, and although, mayhap,
flat rocks might have been found enough for two or three, there was no mortar in the whole
land of Virginia with which to fasten them together.

Therefore it was we were forced to build a chimney of logs, laying it up on the outside much
as we had the house, but plentifully besmearing it with mud on the inside, and chinking the
crevices with moss and clay.

When this had been done, a hole was cut for the smoke, directly through the side of the house.
The danger of setting the building on fire was great; but we strove to guard against it so
much as possible by plastering a layer of mud over the wood, and by keeping careful watch when
we had a roaring fire. Oftentimes were we forced to stop in the task of cooking, take all the
vessels from the coals, and throw water upon the blazing logs.

The chimney was a rude affair, of course, and perhaps if we had had women among us, they would
have claimed that no cooking could be done, when all the utensils were placed directly on the
burning wood, or hung above it with chains fastened to the top of the fireplace; but when lads
like Nathaniel and me, who had never had any experience in cooking with proper tools, set about
the task, it did not seem difficult, for we were accustomed to nothing else.

COOKING A TURKEY

And this is how we could roast a turkey: after drawing the entrails from the bird, we filled
him full of chinquapin nuts, which grow profusely in this land, and are, perhaps, of some relation
to the chestnut. An oaken stick, sufficiently long to reach from one side of the fireplace
to the other, and trimmed with knives until it was no larger around than the ramrod of a matchlock,
forms our spit, and this we thrust through the body of the bird from end to end. A pile of
rocks on either side of the fireplace, at a proper distance from the burning wood, serves as
rests for the ends of the wooden spit, and when thus placed the bird will be cooked in front
of the fire, if whosoever is attending to the labor turns the carcass from time to time, so
that each portion may receive an equal amount of heat.

I am not pretending to say that this is a skillful method of cooking; but if you had been with
us in Jamestown, and were as hungry as we often were, a wild turkey filled with chinquapin
nuts, and roasted in such fashion, would make a very agreeable dinner.

We were put to it for a table; but yet a sort of shelf made from a plank roughly split out
of the trunk of a tree, and furnished with two legs on either end, was not as awkward as one
may fancy, for we had no chairs on which to sit while eating; but squatted on the ground, and
this low bench served our purpose as well as a better piece of furniture would have done.

When the captain was at home, he carved the bird with his hunting knife, and one such fowl
would fill the largest trencher bowl we had among us.

Nor could we be overly nice while eating, and since we had no napkins on which to wipe our
fingers, a plentiful supply of water was necessary to cleanse one's hands, for these wild turkeys
are overly fat in the months of September and October, and he who holds as much of the cooked
flesh in his hand as is needed for a hearty dinner, squeezes therefrom a considerable amount
in the way of grease.

We were better off for vessels in which to put our food, than in many other respects, for we
had of trencher bowls an abundance, and the London Company had outfitted us with ware of iron,
or of brass, or of copper, until our poor table seemed laden with an exceeding rich store.

CANDLES OR RUSHLIGHTS

To provide lights for ourselves, now that the evenings were grown longer, was a much more difficult
task than to cook without proper conveniences, for it cost considerable labor. In such manner
did we get makeshifts for candles, neither pleasing to the eye nor affording very much in the
way of light; yet they served in a certain degree to dispel the darkness when by reason of
storm we were shut in the dwellings, and made the inside of the house very nearly cheerful
in appearance.

To get the tallow or grease with which to make these rushlights, we saved the fat of the deer,
or the bear, or even a portion of the grease from turkeys, and, having gathered sufficient
for the candle making, mixed them all in one pot for melting.

The task of gathering the candle wood was more pleasing, and yet oftentimes had in it more
of work, for it was the knots of the trees which gave the better light, and we might readily
fasten them upon an iron skewer, or rod, which was driven into the side of the house for such
purpose.

Some of our people, who were too lazy to search for knots, split the wood into small sticks,
each about the size of a goose quill, and, standing three or four in a vessel filled with sand,
gained as much in the way of light as might be had from one pine knot.

Of course, those who were overly particular, would find fault with the smoke from this candle
wood, and complain of the tar which oozed from it; but one who lives in the wilderness must
not expect to have all the luxuries that can be procured in London.

THE VISIT OF POCAHONTAS

We had a visitor from the village of Powhatan very soon after Captain Smith took command of
Jamestown to such an extent that the gentlemen were forced to work and to speak without oaths,
through fear of getting too much cold water inside the sleeves of their doublets.

This visitor was the same Indian girl I had seen making bread, and quite by chance our house
was the first she looked into, which caused me much pride, for I believed she was attracted
to it because it was more cleanly than many of the others.

We were all at home when she came, being about to partake of the noonday meal, which was neither
more nor less than a big turkey weighing more than two score pounds, and roasted to a brownness
which would cause a hungry person's mouth to water.

Although she who had halted to look in at our door was only a girl, Captain Smith treated her
as if she were the greatest lady in the world, himself leading her inside to his own place
at the trencher board, while she, in noways shy, began to help herself to the fattest pieces
of meat, thereby besmearing herself with grease until there was enough running down her chin
to have made no less than two rushlights, so Nathaniel Peacock declared.

Of course, being a savage, she could not speak in our language, but the master, who had studied
diligently since coming to this world of Virginia to learn the speech of the Indians, made
shift to get from her some little information, she being the daughter of Powhatan, the king
concerning whom I have already set down many things.

At first Captain Smith was of the belief that she had come on some errand; but after much questioning,
more by signs than words, it came out, as we understood the matter, that the girl was in Jamestown
for no other purpose than to see what we white people were like.

Captain Smith was minded that she should be satisfied, so far as her curiosity was concerned,
for when the dinner had come to an end, and I had given this king's daughter some dry, sweet
grass on which to wipe her hands and mouth, he conducted her around the village, allowing that
she look in upon the tents and houses at her pleasure.

She stayed with us until the sun was within an hour of setting, and then darted off into the
forest as does a startled pheasant, stopping for a single minute when she had got among the
trees, to wave her hand, as if bidding us goodbye, or in plain mischief.

CAPTAIN KENDALL'S PLOT

It is not possible my memory will serve me to tell of all that was done by us in Jamestown
after we were come to our senses through the efforts of my master; but the killing of Captain
Kendall is one of the many terrible happenings in Virginia, which will never be forgotten so
long as I shall live.

After our people were relieved from the famine through the gifts from the Indians and the coming
of wild fowl, Captain Smith set about making some plans to provide us with food during the
winter, and to that end he set off in the shallop to trade with the savages, taking with him
six men. He had a goodly store of beads and trinkets with which to make payment for what he
might be able to buy, for these brown men are overly fond of what among English people would
be little more than toys.

While he was gone, Master Wingfield and Captain Kendall were much together, for both were in
a certain way under disgrace since the plot with which they charged my master had been shown
to have been of their own evil imaginings. They at once set about making friends with some
of the serving men, and this in itself was so strange that Nathaniel and I kept our eyes and
ears open wide to discover the cause.

It was not many days before we came to know that there was a plan on foot, laid by these two
men who should have been working for the good of the colony instead of to further their own
base ends, to seize upon our pinnace, which lay moored to the shore, and to sail in her to England.

How that would have advantaged them I cannot even so much as guess; but certain it was that
they carried on board the pinnace a great store of wild fowl, which had been cooked with much
labor, and had filled two casks with water, as if believing such amount would serve to save
them from thirst during the long voyage.

These wicked ones had hardly gone on board the vessel when Captain Smith came home in the shallop,
which was loaded deep with Indian corn he had bought from the savages, and, seeing the pinnace
being got under way, had little trouble in guessing what was afoot.

THE DEATH OF CAPTAIN KENDALL

If ever a man moved swiftly, and with purpose, it was our master when he thus came to understand
what Master Wingfield and Captain Kendall would do. He was on shore before those in the pinnace
could hoist the sails, and, calling upon all who remained true to the London Company to give
him aid, had three of our small cannon, which were already loaded with shot, aimed at the crew
of mutineers.

Five men, each with a matchlock in his hand, stood ready to fire upon those who would at the
same time desert and steal from us, and Captain Smith gave the order for Captain Kendall and
Master Wingfield to come on shore without delay.

For reply Captain Kendall discharged his firearm, hoping to kill my master, and then those
on the bank emptied their matchlocks with such effect that Captain Kendall was killed by the
first volley, causing Master Wingfield to scuttle on shore in a twinkling lest he suffer a
like fate.

The whole bloody business was at an end in less than a quarter hour; but the effect of it was
not so soon wiped away, for from that time each man had suspicion of his neighbor, fearing
lest another attempt be made to take from us the pinnace, which we looked upon as an ark of
refuge, in case the savages should come against us in such numbers that they could not be resisted.

CAPTAIN SMITH'S EXPEDITION AND RETURN

Until winter was come we had food in plenty, for one could hardly send a charge of shot toward
the river without bringing down swans, ducks, or cranes, while from the savages we got sufficient
for our daily wants, meal made from the corn, pumpkins, peas, and beans.

But this did not cause Captain Smith to give over trying to buy from the Indians a store of
corn for the winter, and shortly after Captain Kendall's death, he set off with nine white
men and two Indian guides in a barge, counting to go as far as the head of the Chickahominy River.

This time twenty-two long, dreary days went by without his return, and we mourned him as dead,
believing the savages had murdered him.

The discontented ones were in high glee because of thinking the man who had forced them to
do that which they should, had gone out from their world forever, and we two lads were plunged
in deepest grief, for in all the great land of Virginia, Captain Smith was our only true friend.

Then arrived that day when he suddenly appeared before us, having come to no harm, and as Master
Hunt lifted up his hands in a prayer of thanksgiving because the man who was so sadly needed
in Jamestown had returned, I fell on my knees, understanding for the first time in my life
how good God could be to us in that wilderness.

I would that I might describe the scene in our house that night, when Master Hunt was come
to hear what all knew would be a story of wildest adventure, for it went without saying that
my master never would have remained so long absent from Jamestown had it been within his power
to return sooner.

AN EXCITING ADVENTURE

We waited to hear the tale until he had refreshed himself after the long journey, and then
what Captain Smith told us was like unto this, as I remember it:

After leaving the village, he had sailed up the river until there was no longer water enough
to float the barge, when, with two white men and the two Indians, he embarked in a canoe, continuing
the voyage for a distance of twelve miles or more. There, in the wilderness, they made ready
to spend the night, and with one of the savage guides my master went on shore on an island
to shoot some wild fowls for supper. He had traveled a short distance from the boat, when he
heard cries of the savages in the distance, and, looking back, saw that one of the men had
been taken prisoner, while the other was fighting for his life.

At almost the very minute when he saw this terrible thing, he was suddenly beset by more than
two hundred yelling, dancing savages, who were sweeping down upon him as if believing he was
in their power beyond any chance. The Indian guide, who appeared to be terribly frightened,
although it might have been that he was in the plot to murder my master, would have run away;
but that Captain Smith held him fast while he fired one of his pistols to keep the enemy in check.

Understanding that he must do battle for his life, my master first took the precaution to bind
the Indian guide to his left arm, by means of his belt, in such fashion that the fellow would
serve as a shield against the shower of arrows the savages were sending through the air.

Protected in this manner, Captain Smith fought bravely, as he always does, and had succeeded
in killing two of the Indians with his matchlock, when suddenly he sank knee deep into a mire.
It seems that he had been retreating toward the canoe, hoping to get on board her where would
be some chance for shelter, and was so engaged with the savages in front of him as to give
little heed to his steps.

Once he was held prisoner by the mud, the enemy quickly surrounded him, and he could do no
better than surrender. Instead of treating him cruelly, as might have been expected, these
brown men carried him from village to village, as if exhibiting some strange animal.

TAKEN BEFORE POWHATAN

When he was first made captive, the Indians found his compass, and were stricken with wonder,
because, however the instrument might be turned, the needle always pointed in the same direction.
The glass which protected the needle caused even more amazement, and, believing him to be a
magician, they took him to Powhatan.

After many days of traveling, the savages were come with their prisoner to Powhatan's village,
where Captain Smith was held close prisoner in one of the huts, being fairly well treated and
fed in abundance, until the king, who had been out with a hunting party, came home.

Twice while he was thus captive did Captain Smith see the girl Pocahontas, who had visited
him in Jamestown; but she gave no especial heed to him, save as a child who was minded to be
amused, until on the day when some of the savages gave him to understand that he was to be
killed for having come into this land of theirs, and also for having shot to death some of
their tribe.

When he was led out of Powhatan's tent of skins, with his feet and hands bound, he had no hope
of being able to save his own life, for there was no longer any chance for him to struggle
against those who had him in their power.

POCAHONTAS BEGS FOR SMITH'S LIFE

He was forced down on the earth, with his head upon a great rock, while two half naked savages
came forward with heavy stones bound to wooden handles, with which to beat out his brains,
and these weapons were already raised to strike, when the girl Pocahontas ran forward, throwing
herself upon my master, as she asked that Powhatan give him to her.

Now, as we afterward came to know, it is the custom among savages, that when one of their women
begs for the life of a prisoner, to grant the prayer, and so it was done in this case, else
we had never seen my master again.

It is also the custom, when a prisoner has thus been given to one who begged for his life,
that the captive shall always be held as slave by her; but Pocahontas desired only to let him
go back to Jamestown. Then it was she told her father how she had been treated when visiting
us, and Powhatan, after keeping Captain Smith prisoner until he could tell of what he had seen
in other countries of the world, set him free.

THE EFFECT OF CAPTAIN SMITH'S RETURN

It was well for us of Jamestown that my master returned just when he did, for already had our
gentlemen, believing him dead, refused longer to work, and even neglected the hunting, when
game of all kinds was so plentiful. They had spent the time roaming around searching for gold,
until we were once more in need of food.

The sickness had come among us again, and of all our company, which numbered an hundred when
Captain Newport sailed for England, only thirty-eight remained alive.

Within four and twenty hours after Captain Smith came back, matters had so far mended that
every man who could move about at will, was working for the common good, although from that
time, until Captain Newport came again, we had much of suffering.

With the coming of winter Nathaniel and I were put to it to do our work in anything like a
seemly manner. What with the making of candles, or of rushlights; tanning deer hides in such
fashion as Captain Smith had taught us; mending his doublets of leather, as well as our own;
keeping the house and ground around it fairly clean, in addition to cooking meals which might
tempt the appetite of our master, we were busy from sunrise to sunset.

Nor were we without our reward. On rare occasions Captain Smith would commend us for attending
to our duties in better fashion than he had fancied lads would ever be able to do, and very
often did Master Hunt whisper words of praise in our ears, saying again and again that he would
there were in his house two boys like us.

This you may be sure was more of payment than we had a reasonable right to expect, for certain
it is that even at our best the work was but fairly done, as it ever must be when there are
houseboys instead of housewives at home.

Master Hunt had a serving man, William Rods, and he was not one well fitted to do a woman's
work, for in addition to being clumsy, even at the expense of breaking now and then a wooden
trencher bowl, he had no thought that cleanliness was, as the preacher often told us, next
to godliness.

It was he, and such as he, that caused Captain Smith and those others of the Council who were
minded to work for the common good, very much of trouble.

The rule, as laid down by my master, was that those living in a dwelling should keep cleanly
the land roundabout the outside for a space of five yards, and yet again and again have I seen
William Rods throw the refuse from the table just outside the door, meaning to take it away
at a future time, and always forgetting so to do until reminded by some one in authority. 

In order to prove my point, I will cite only witnesses that the Atheist himself deems reliable,
so that there will be no reason to suspect the credibility of said witnesses. Obviously, the
Atheist, who claims to be a reasonable person, will not reject his own thoughts and claims. In
fact, even further, the Atheist would not even try to hide the witness's testimony from being
put forth, were he on a witness stand.

After Captain Smith had brought matters to rights in the village, setting this company of men
to building more houses, and that company to hewing down trees for firewood, which would be
needed when the winter had come, Master Hunt made mention of a matter which I knew must have
been very near his heart many a day.

A NEW CHURCH

During all the time we had been on shore, the only church in Jamestown was the shelter beneath
that square of canvas which he himself had put up. When it stormed, he had called such of the
people as were inclined to worship into one or another of the houses; but now he asked that
a log building be put together, while it was yet so warm that the men could work out of doors
without suffering, and to this, much to my pleasure, for I had an exceedingly friendly feeling
toward Master Hunt, Captain Smith agreed.

Therefore it was that when the storms of October came, Master Hunt had a place in which to
receive those whom he would lead to a better life, and I believe that all our people, the men
who were careless regarding the future life, and those who followed the preacher's teachings,
felt the better in mind because there was at last in our village a place which would be used
for no other purpose than that of leading us into, and helping us to remain in, the straight path.

CAPTAIN NEWPORT'S RETURN

It was at the beginning of the new year, two days after my master was set free by the savages,
that Captain Newport came back to us, this time in the ship John and Francis, and with him
were fifty men who had been sent to join our colony.

Fortunately for us there were but few gentlemen among them, therefore did the work of building
the village go on much more rapidly, because there were laborers in plenty.

A larger building, which was called the fort, and would indeed have been a safe place for refuge
had the savages made an attack, was but just completed at the beginning of the third month,
meaning March.

There Captain Smith had stored the supply of provisions and seed brought in the John and Francis,
and we were already saying to ourselves that by the close of the summer we should reap a bountiful
harvest.

All these plans and hopes went for naught, however, for on a certain night--and no man can
say how it happened, save him who was the careless one--fire fastened upon the inside of the
fort, having so much headway when it was discovered, that our people could do little toward
checking it.

The flames burst out through the roof, which was thatched with dried grass, as were all the
houses in the town, and leaped from one building to another until it seemed as if the entire
village would be destroyed.

It is true that even the palisade, which was near to forty feet distant from the fort, was
seized upon by the flames, and a goodly portion of that which had cost us so much labor was
entirely destroyed.

Out of all our houses only four remained standing when the flames had died away. The seed which
we had counted on for reaping a harvest, the store of provisions, and a large amount of clothing
and other necessaries, were thus consumed.

Good Master Hunt lost all his books, in fact, everything he owned save the clothes upon his
back, and yet never once did I, who was with him very much, for he came to live at our house
while the village was being rebuilt, hear him utter one word of complaint, or of sorrow.

GOLD SEEKERS

It was while all the people, gentlemen as well as laborers, were doing their best to repair
the loss, and to put Jamestown into such shape that we might be able to withstand an attack
from the savages, if so be they made one, that even a worse misfortune than the fire came upon us.

Some of those whom Captain Newport had lately brought to Virginia, while roaming along the
shores of the river in order to learn what this new land was like, came upon a spot where the
waters had washed the earth away for a distance of five or six feet, leaving exposed to view
a vast amount of sand, so yellow and so heavy that straightway the foolish ones believed they
were come upon that gold which our people had been seeking almost from the very day we first
landed.

From this moment there was no talk of anything save the wealth which would come to us and the
London Company.

Even Captain Newport was persuaded that this sand was gold, and straightway nearly every person
in the village was hard at work digging and carrying it in baskets on board the John and Francis
as carefully as if each grain counted for a guinea.

Of all the people of Jamestown, Captain Smith and Master Hunt were the only ones who refused
to believe the golden dream. They held themselves aloof from this mad race to gather up the
yellow sand, and strove earnestly to persuade the others that it would be a simple matter to
prove by fire whether this supposed treasure were metal.

In the center of the village, where all might see him, Master Hunt set a pannikin, in which
was a pint or more of the sand, over a roaring fire which he kept burning not less than two hours.

When he was done, the sand remained the same as before, which, so he and my master claimed,
was good proof that our people of Jamestown were, in truth, making fools of themselves, as
they had many a time before since we came into this land of Virginia.

A WORTHLESS CARGO

When we should have been striving to build up the town once more, we spent all our time loading
the ship with this worthless cargo, and indeed I felt the better in my mind when finally Captain
Newport set sail, the John and Francis loaded deeply with sand, because of believing that we
were come to an end of hearing about treasure which lay at hand ready for whosoever would carry
it away.

In this, however, I was disappointed. Although there was no longer any reason for our people
to labor at what was called the gold mine, since there was no ship at hand in which to put
the sand, they still talked, hour by hour, of the day when all the men in Virginia would go
back to England richer than kings.

Because of such thoughts was it well nigh impossible to force them to labor once more. Yet
Captain Smith and Master Hunt did all they could, even going so far as to threaten bodily harm
if the people did not rebuild the storehouse, plant such seed as had been saved from the flames,
and replace those portions of the palisade which had been burned.

It was while our people were thus working half heartedly, that Captain Nelson arrived in the
ship Phoenix, having been so long delayed on the voyage, because of tempests and contrary winds,
that his passengers and crew had eaten nearly all the stores which the London Company sent
over for our benefit, and bringing seventy more mouths to be fed.

Save that she brought to us skilled workmen, the coming of the Phoenix did not advantage us
greatly, while there were added to our number, seventy men, and of oatmeal, pickled beef and
pork, as much as would serve for, perhaps, three or four weeks.

Through her, however, as Master Hunt said in my hearing, came some little good, for on seeing
the yellow sand, Captain Nelson declared without a question that it was worthless, and, being
accustomed to working in metal, speedily proved to our people who were yet suffering with the
gold fever, that there was nothing whatsoever of value in it.

THE CONDITION OF THE COLONY

That he might have something to carry back to England, and not being minded to take on board
a load of sand, Captain Nelson asked that the Phoenix be laden with cedar logs and such clapboards
as our people had made. Therefore was it that we sent to England the first cargo of value since
having come to Virginia.

Among those who had come over in the Phoenix were workmen who understood the making of turpentine,
tar and soap ashes. There was also a pipe maker, a gunsmith, and a number of other skilled
workmen, so that had the Council advanced the interest of the colony one half as much as my
master was doing, all would have gone well with us in Jamestown.

As it was, however, the President of the Council, so Master Hunt has declared many times, and
of a verity he would not bear false witness, often countenanced the men in rebellion against
my master's orders, until, but for the preacher's example, we might never have put into the
earth our first seed.

Because of lack of food, and it seems strange to say so when there were of oysters near at
hand more than a thousand men could have eaten, and fish in the rivers without number, Captain
Smith set off once more in the pinnace to trade with the Indians, as well as to explore further
the bay and the river.

Master Hunt lived in our house, while he was gone, therefore Nathaniel and I were not idle,
and though we had each had a dozen pair of hands, we could have kept them properly employed,
what with making a garden for our own use, tending the plants, and keeping house.

TOBACCO

Just here I am minded to set down that which the girl Pocahontas told us concerning the raising
of tobacco, and it is well she spent the time needed to instruct us, for since then I have
seen the people in this new world of Virginia getting more money from the tobacco plant, than
they could have gained even though Captain Newport's yellow sand had been veritable gold.

You must know that the seed of tobacco is even smaller than grains of powder, and the Indians
usually plant it in April. Within a month it springs up, each tiny plant having two or four
leaves, and one month later it is transplanted in little hillocks, set about the same distance
apart as are our hills of Indian corn.

Two or three times during the season the plants have to be hoed and weeded, while the sickly
leaves, which peep out from the body of the stock, must be plucked off.

If the plant grows too fast, which is to say, if it is like to get its full size before harvest
time, the tops are cut to make it more backward.

About the middle of September it is reaped, stripped of its leaves, and tied in small bunches;
these are hung under a shelter so that the dew may not come to them, until they are cured the
same as hay.

Having thus been dried, and there must be no suspicion of moisture about, else they will mold,
the whole is packed into hogsheads.

I have lived to see the days go by since the girl Pocahontas showed Nathaniel and me how to
cultivate the weed, until the greatest wealth which Virginia can produce comes from this same
tobacco, which, Master Hunt says, not only induces filthiness in those who use it, but works
grievous injury to the body.

CAPTAIN NEWPORT'S RETURN

When Captain Newport came back to Virginia, at about the time we were gathering our scanty
harvest, his dreams of sudden wealth, through the digging of gold in Virginia, had burst as
does a bubble when one pricks it.

He had not been more than four and twenty hours in England before learning that his ship was
laden only with valueless sand, and, mayhap, if the London Company had not demanded that he
return to Virginia at once, with certain orders concerning us at Jamestown, he might have been
too much ashamed to show his face among us again.

My master had come in long since from trading with the Indians, having had fairly good success
at times, and again failing utterly to gather food. The king Powhatan was grown so lofty in
his bearing, because of the honor some of our foolish people had shown him, that it was well
nigh impossible to pay the price he asked, even in trinkets, for so small an amount as a single
peck of corn.

However, that which Powhatan did or did not do, concerned me very little when Captain Newport
had arrived, for he brought with him such tidings as made my heart rejoice, and caused Master
Hunt to say that now indeed would our village of Jamestown grow as it should have grown had
our leaders shown themselves of half as much spirit as had my master.

But for the greater things which followed Captain Newport's arrival in September of the year
1608, I would have set it down as of the utmost importance to us in Jamestown, that he brought
with him the first two women, other than the girl Pocahontas, who had ever come into our town.

These were Mistress Forest, and her maid, Anne Burras, and if the king himself had so far done
us the honor as to come, his arrival would have caused no greater excitement.

Every man and boy in the settlement pressed forward eager even to touch the garments of these
two women as they came ashore in the ship's small boat, and I dare venture to say that we stared
at them, Nathaniel and I among the number, even as the savages stared at us when first we landed.

It would have been more to my satisfaction had there been two maids, instead of only one and
her mistress, for it was more than likely servants could tell Nathaniel and me many things
about our care of the house, which a great lady would not well know. Therefore, as I viewed
the matter, we could well spare fine women, so that we had maids who would understand of what
we as houseboys stood mostly in need.

However, it was not with these women, who were only two among seventy, that had come with Captain
Newport on this his third voyage, that I was most deeply concerned, and how I learned that
which pleased me so greatly shall be set down exactly as it happened.

MASTER HUNT BRINGS GREAT NEWS

I had been down at the landing place, feasting my eyes upon the ship which had so lately come
from the country I might never see again, and was trying to cheer myself by working around
the house in the hope of pleasing Captain Smith, when Master Hunt came in with a look upon
his face such as I had not seen since the sickness first came among us, and, without thinking
to be rude, I asked him if it was the arrival of the women which pleased him so greatly.

"It is nothing of such fanciful nature, Richard Mutton," the good man replied with a smile,
"though I must confess that it is pleasing to see women with white faces, when our eyes have
beheld none save bearded men for so long a time. What think you has been done in the Council
this day, since Captain Newport had speech with President Ratcliffe?"

Verily I could not so much as guess what might have happened, for those worshipful gentlemen
were prone at times to behave more like foolish children, than men upon whom the fate of a
new country depended, and I said to Master Hunt much of the same purport.

"They have elected your master, Captain John Smith, President of the Council, Richard Mutton,
and now for the first time will matters in Jamestown progress as they should."

"My master President of the Council at last!" I cried, and the good preacher added:

"So it is, lad, as I know full well, having just come from there."

"But how did they chance suddenly to gather their wits?" I cried with a laugh, in which Master
Hunt joined.

"It was done after Captain Newport had speech with Master Ratcliffe, and while I know nothing
for a certainty, there is in my mind a strong belief that he brought word from the London Company
for such an election to be made. At all events, it is done, and now we shall see Jamestown
increase in size, even as she would have done from the first month we landed here had Captain
John Smith been at the head of affairs."

The good preacher was so delighted with this change in the government that he unfolded all
his budget of news, forgetting for the time being, most like, that he was not speaking to his
equal, and thus it was I learned what were Captain Newport's instructions from the London Company.

CAPTAIN NEWPORT'S INSTRUCTIONS

He was ordered, if you please, not to return to England without bringing back a lump of gold,
exploring the passageway to the South Sea, or finding some of Sir Walter Raleigh's lost colony,
of which I will tell you later.

But whether he did the one or the other, he had been commanded to crown as a king, Powhatan,
and had brought with him mock jewels and red robes for such a purpose.

To find a lump of gold, after he had brought to England a shipload of yellow sand!

To crown Powhatan king, when, to our sorrow, he was already showing himself far more of a king
than was pleasing or well for our town of James!

Forgetting I was but a lad, and had no right to put blame on the shoulders of my leaders and
betters, or even to address Master Hunt as if I were a man grown, I cried out against the foolishness
of those people in London for whom we were striving to build up a city, saying very much that
had better been left unsaid, until the good preacher cried with a laugh:

"We can forgive them almost anything, Dicky Mutton, since they have made our Captain Smith
the head of the government in this land of Virginia."

And now I will tell you, as Master Hunt told me, the story of this lost colony of Roanoke,
which the London Company had commanded Captain Newport to find.

You must know that English people had lived in this land of Virginia before we came here in
1606, and while it does not concern us of Jamestown, except as we are interested in knowing
the fate of our countrymen, it should be set down, lest we so far forget as to say that those
of us who have built this village are the first settlers in the land. 

"If Vidocq should see them he would suspicion a number of plot, and
otherwise farewell towards the bird."--"But whereas shall I site them?"--"Oh,
why within this closet--mind, none noise, that would ruin all; and
I possess many yearn than yourself that he should not doubt anything."

My commissary was already lock within four walls with his agents. The door, which was very
powerful, finished with a twice lock. Then, certain of moment for evade, I cried towards my
prisoners, "You are glancing for Vidocq--well, it is he whom has caged you; farewell."


Two years after that, which is to say nineteen years before we of Jamestown came here, Sir
Walter Raleigh sent over one hundred and sixteen people, among whom were men, women and children,
and they also began to build a town on Roanoke Island.

John White was their governor, and very shortly after they came to Roanoke, his daughter, Mistress
Ananias Dare, had a little baby girl, the first white child to be born in the new world, so
they named her Virginia.

Now these people, like ourselves, were soon sorely in need of food, and they coaxed Governor
John White to go back to England, to get what would be needed until they could gather a harvest.

At the time he arrived at London, England was at war with the Spanish people, and it was two
years before he found a chance to get back. When he finally arrived at Roanoke Island, there
were no signs of any of his people to be found, except that on the tree was cut the word "Croatan,"
which is the name of an Indian village on the island nearby.

That was the last ever heard of all those hundred and sixteen people. Five different times
Sir Walter Raleigh sent out men for the missing ones; but no traces could be found, not even
at Croatan, and no one knows whether they were killed by the Indians, or wandered off into
the wilderness where they were lost forever. 

The only shelf left for inspection is the upper-most one. There are three sepulchral tablets,
as well as the fronts of two sarcophagi.

Inside a wreath is the tablet from Crete, which contains an inscription describing an honour of a
golden crown conferred by the inhabitants of Crete upon a man named
Alexander.

Once the visitor sees the front of the first sarcophagus, which depicts gay Cupids enacting
Bacchanalians, they should pass on to the
SECOND DIVISION.
In this division, the visitor can see a strange square altar with
Silvanus, in front of the pilaster.

The altar is dedicated to Silvanus by the farm servant of Caius Coelius Heliodorus, Callistus.
The visitor will also see a trophy which was discovered on the plains of Marathon.
There are some fine works grouped in this division, the first of which are two white marble
Victories discovered in the ruins of the villa ofAntonius Pius, at
Monte Cagnuolo.

The first Victory is kneeling upon a bull, preparing to stab it,
and is followed by a fine bust of a laughing satyr.

The laughing satyr, in particular, will catch the attention of the visitor, who will then see a
colossal foot in a sandal, under the front of a sarcophagus; then, the votive torso, apparently that
of an athlete.

Following the athletic torso is a red marble swan found in a vineyard near the Villa Pinciana,
a terminal statue of a satyr, a bust of Diogenes, and then a bust which could be part of the figure
of a dying Amazon. Finishing the round is a bust of Atys. The visitor will notice that, on the
upper shelf of this division, the front and ends of a sarcophagus are to be found, uponn which
Baccus and Ariadne are represented in a chariot, heralded by Bacchanals
and drawn by Centaurs; in other parts of the Sarcophagus, Pan is being
castigated by a satyr and carried off by two Cupids, once more aided
by another stayr.

On the lower shelf, one will see several antique busts; one may be that of Achilles, one is
an old Hercules, one is a Bacchante, one is a bust of Aratus, one is a female head, and oone
is a tragic mask from the lid of a sarcophagus.

This ends the visual tour of the second division, and the visitor can move on to the
THIRD DIVISION.
The most notable work in this division is that of a celebrated copy of the statue of Praxiteles,
of Cupid bending his bow, found in front of the third pilaster.

The copy is four feet, three and a half inches tall, and arrived in this country originally
as a present from Barry, the painter, to one Edmund Burke, from Rome.

This copy, however, is not the best of the numerous that have existed.

In addition to the noted copy, this division includes several sepulchral urns with figures
in relief.

Amidst them are an altar inscribed by Annia Augustalis to the manes of M. Clodius, his brother
Felix, and to Tyrannus; and a bas-reief discovered near the mausoleum of Agustus. This bas-relief
represents a Muse standing before a dramatic poet.

There is also an altar in the general vicinity, ornamented with other bas-reliefs, dedicated
by Aurelius Timotheus to Diana. On the altar is also a small figure of Neptune from Athens,
a veiled Ceres bearing a torch (also from Athens), a draped Muse
in terra cotta holding a lyre, and a cippus with a representation
of Silenus riding a panther.

On the lower shelf are three Etruscan sarcophagi, two of alabaster and one in peperino, all three
representations of recumbent female figures. On the first sarcophagus is the hunt of the Calydonian
boar. On the second is Scylla. And on the third is a bas-relief representing Achilles dragging
Penthesilea from her chariot. Also to be found on this lower sheelf are a bas-relief showing
Luna encompassed by the signs of the Zodiac and a sun-dial supported
by the claws and heads of lions.

The visitor should then turn to the upper shelf, where he will find the bas-reliefs deposited
there.
It was the duty of some few to keep the streets and lanes of the village clear of filth, lest
we invite the sickness again, and the remainder of the company were employed in planting Indian
corn, forty acres of which were seeded down. 

Cradock's lineage can be found along with the same coat of arms on
page 807 of Leicestershire, Vol.

IV, Part 2. There it is said that the French killed Gronow in 1096 and that he was laid to
rest at Llandilo Vawr and also that the Judge had been known as
Newton in the town where he was born.

Although it shames one to write such things concerning those who called themselves Englishmen,
yet it must be said that the savages were no longer in any degree friendly, and all because
of what our own people had done.

From the time when Captain Smith had declared that he who would not work should not eat, some
of our fine gentlemen who were willing to believe that labor was the greatest crime which could
be committed, began stealing from the common store iron and copper goods of every kind which
might be come at, in order to trade with the savages for food they themselves were too lazy
to get otherwise. 

After returning, Lisette could not prevent herself from babbling on about Madame's condescending
so-called kindness, often elaborating as she saw fit.
"Monsieur le Baron will escort me from our cottage, as he will not leave for Paris until June
ninth, such that he can attend the fete of the Rose at his chateau"
she stated.

"Madame suggested that Victorine should be among my companions for this fete."
"But Victorine never goes to mass!" Mimi pointed out, "and the Rosiere always attends vespers."

"That is not important," replied Lisette haughtily, "as long as Victorine
agrees to come every once in a while."

"Oh, if only it was something else, Lisette, but my parents desire that I stay away from mass,"
Victorine replied. "I cannot come with you."
"But it is Madame's expressed order!" exclaimed Lisette.
"Madame does not have the power to make me reject my morals," Victorine stated, "and this is one
of those instances. If my mother permits, I will go up to the chateau,
and avoid Madame's wishes altogether."

"Oh, Victorine, how can you be so unkind?" Lisette asked rhetorically, tears trickling down her
cheeks. "I have already told Madame that you would certainly come with me, and she said that
it would improve the procession if my two sisters were behind me and the Baron."

Victorine was exasperated at this point. She took Lisette's hand and asked, "Do you really
want me to do something that goes against my morals so that you can be amused for a short hour?
I can't ignore my conscience, my dearest sister.

I cannot come with you to the chapel."
Lisette snatched her hand back as she replied, "Do whatever you desire, Victorine, but it is
difficult that the reason that makes me elected Rosiere causes jealousy in both of my elder
sisters. I certainly hoped that Caliste and Victorine would celebrate for the honor bestowed
upon me."

Lisette's answer made Victorine increasingly sad, but the elder sister did not make another response.
After obtaining her mother's consent, Victorine left for the chateau
to excuse herself to Madame la Baronne.

The Madame was courteous and even went so far as to approve of Victorine's conduct, even as
she did not agree with the girl's opinions. Madame very much desired Victorine to renounce
her heresy and end her alienation from the Romish church.

This renouncement would allow Victorine to be elected Rosiere of the following year. This offer,
however, did not tempt Victorine, who could not look upon the sadness of her sisters without
desiring to be their opposite.

Madame then expressed her hope that Victorine would go with her sister to the fete at the chateau
and - after a complimentary messaage to her mother - sent the girl on her way.
Then came the ordeal of preparing all of the girl's fete dresses. The Rosiere and her twelve female
followers were all wearing white and all - with the exception of
the Rosiere - wore blue ribbon scarves over one shoulder and tied
under the other. None of the followers wore head coverings, as the
fete was in the summer month of June, but the Rosiere did wear a crown
of roses, made by the twelve followers. 
now D'Elsac was a frequent
witness to Victorine's patience. Victorine made her sister's dresses
- as Lisette was extremely busy talking about the fete and Caliste
was too bitter to help.

As Master Hunt said again and again when talking over the situation with Captain Smith, it
seemed strange even to us who were there, that we could be looking forward to a famine, when
in the sea and on the land was food in abundance to feed half the people in all this wide world. 

After they hung the guilty, much was made of Grifone. Amilcare took him through all of his campaigns,
and taught him well by giving him confidence. By the time he was at Nona, making Gran Tradimento
of Farnese, he could not go on with him. They wanted to kill the young man at once, but did
not and a forbearance was given a second time. The soul of Man hungers to feed on the meat of exploration,
to travel the emptiness of space and tread the paths traversed by galaxies and stars. It has
ever been so. The thoughts of Man have traversed the dark of the
universe and let his imagination feed on the mysteries of the stars.

Thus it was that day by day did we who were in the land of plenty, overrun with that which
would serve as food, fear that another time of famine was nigh. 

Death is not dreadful as it seems.

This is because we feel that in heaven the friendship continues and  ripens through never-ending
cycles .The deeds in earth will be recognized and greeted there. But the way to heaven is
not easy to follow.  Even the most wonderful gifts of world are unsatisfactory. Rich are
always after their wealth and busy in accumulating it.

When they die thay are forgoten as their money is valued not their inner self. Comparing to
the rich the poorer are happier than them. Consider life as only a pilgrimage. It is only
a journey to the eternal life. To avail the golden crown of we have to suffer certain difficulties.
Again the preacher says ofcourse, we are of earth, although we believe in the almighty and
his blessings we are not able to forbid the happiness of the world. To a large number of christians
eternity ,heaven and God are not a reality it is only a chimerical feeling in the atmosphere of faith
which they are not able to understand. Hence they cannot acquire the true faith in God.  The
real happiness lies in our heart.

If we are ready to help others and can do something for others without
expecting reward in the world we will be granted that gift by the
Lord Almighty himself.

 "That's
the day I received your letter, Monseigneur Chalandon, our worthy Bishop came to Ars, to call
my healing holy I said to him .. He said that he wrote for you.

Also, He says that should not begin without some means better health and Pray very hard. that
God may give both believe that the souls in purgatory should seize this opportunity to demonstrate
that they have influence with God .. their interests are at stake in removing these obstacles.
"Mdlle.

---- He asked to do this jointly with M. Vianney Novena, and immediately received the following
letter:
"It's the day, 1.09, we wanted more, for Novena is to start the souls
in purgatory are interested in restoring your health ..

I am, you know, but the echo of our good and holy cure. Your directory you give excellent advice
might indeed once have sufficient means of support for one year,
go to Paris for a while. and back again to deliver the work in the
same way I do now You say, "St. Vincent de Paul used to start its
work with anything..

So, he did But then., As my healing looks good, "St. Vincent de Paul
was a great saint!

"
In accordance with the opinion of M. Vianney's, on 19 January 1856, founder went to Paris, where
he met some people who, like her, decided to devote himself to the
service of souls in purgatory, but were rather than a loss how to
proceed, and had no means of support.

 E-ne-pee--a steam-cleansing is a rite of purification prefatrory to the sacred festivals.
The so-called "vapor bath" is administered in this manner: "Several poles the diameter of
hoop-holes or smaller are fetched, and with their stouter ends being
inserted into the ground in a circle, the pliable tops are bowed inward
and joined with twine at their central meeting place.

This skeleton is then overlaid with cloaks and blankets, with the exception of a small opening
on one side passing for a doorway. In front of this hole, a middling-sized fire is started, and
round rocks roughly the size of an adult human's head are placed
into the flames.

The supplicant, stripped naked, takes a seat in the steam-infused
tent, perspiring copiously from every pore, until he is nigh smothered.

At times, it has been observed that more than one man will participate at the same time, singing
and praying together.""Tahkoo Wakan," page 83. Monsignor Hennepin volunteered to undergo the vapor-bath
at Mille Lacs with the endorsement of Chief Aqui-pa-que-tin some
two hundred years ago.

After explicating the process, Hennepin avers: "When the Chief talked me into doing the bath
three times in the space of a week, I ended up feeling as strong as I ever have." Shea's Hennepin,
page 228. For a very thorough and authentic treatment of the Dakota Medicine Men and their rituals,
etc., see Chapter II, Neill's History Minnesota.

82 The holy O-zu-ha, or Medicine Bag, must be fabricated from the flesh of otter, raccoons,
weasel, squirrel, loon, a specific species of fish, or skin taken from snakes.
 

There is no deficit in celebration, however. On Christmas Eve, the churches are thronged and there
are banquets and dances going on everywhere. In the cities, the small boys entertain themselves
by setting off fireworks. During the Christmas week, dances are frequent and in the nation they
continue sometimes for days to the mournful accompaniment of a portable
keyboard wind instrument and large drums.

December 28th, Holy Innocents' Day, is All Fools' Day, instead of April 1st. It is being reasoned
that just as the innocents of Herod's Day is made to suffer, so the innocents of this age should
be persecuted. Many are the tricks committed and the small boy is in his magnificence.
On New Year's Eve, many families welcome their friends.

There is generally a very good time and the New Year is introduced
in with fireworks and other noises.

The great day of the year for the children is January 6th, the feast of epiphany or Three Kings' Day
as it is called in Santo Domingo. Just as the three wise men from the East brought gifts to
the infant Christ in ages past, so they now make the rounds and leave
gifts for deserving children, thus taking the place of our Santa Claus.

The containers they choose for the good things they deliver are either the children's slippers,
shoes or boxes made ready by the little ones. For weeks before the eagerly awaited day, letters
are written to the Kings, explaining what gifts would be acceptable
and are given to the parents who undertake to convey them.

 This was the 16th of December, 1901. The date
I in no way shall forget in my life's account, and in the olden times of the Anglo-Boer Battle.
The sun go up in luxury that daybreak, casting his rays upon me--a man in the major of life,
packed of power and aggressive aim. At eventide the picture was altered! Weary, injured and bleeding
on a forlorn plain, masked in gloom, I rest, no further the guy of
the day, or of previous days, but frail and powerless as an infant.

Even if I had taken part in several scorching activities, both as burgher and leader, and had
been in lots of firm corners, yet I do not recall a day in which
we were so brought to bay, when we were so tough pushed as that day.

Early in the daybreak it was clear that the opponent had but one
plan that day, and that was to compel me to give up.

My commando was about eighty muscular. On my flanks were frequently two British columns, even
as a third one was next up at my back. By such a small amount of men at my removal, and three
columns to resist, it was next to impractical to present unbeaten fight. We had barely taken
up a location when the flanking columns would come encircling, and
we had either to dispose of the location or permit ourselves to be
fasten in.

Thus we were obliged to move back from one to a different place, beneath the rays of a December
sun, which seemed to locate all on fire, through a realm so parched and dry that one barely found
a drop of water to satisfy one's dryness, and that from early morn
till sunset with no a piece of provisions!

That was sufficient to shatter down the strongest man.
A slight earlier than night the warning Cape Railway line stared us in the face. We were once
more specifically in the identical dilemma as on the 15th of August,
while we had to cut the rope close to Springfontein Intersection,
only with this difference--that the threat was much further imminent,
the opponent forming a half circle at my rear, and before me was a
line more powerfully fenced and superior protected than the earliest.

But gladly the armored train was not on the sight. As we were so winning in our first task, we
determined to go by the enemy's row once more in daytime. In well, we had to slash the line
or give up. The latter was further disgusting than the previous.
 Bukhara and Khiva, though
represented as vassal khanates in reality are mere dependencies of Russia. An approximately settled
frontier line does not start until farther east, where Russian and Chinese empires meet on the
borders of eastern Turkestan, Mongolia and Manchuria.

Russia has no oceanic possessions, and has abandoned those who had
in the past century, the islands are mere appendages of the mainland
to which they belong.

Such are the Aland archipelago, Hochland, Tütters, Dago and Osel in the Baltic Sea, Novaya Zemlya,
with Vaigatch Kolgueff and in the Barents Sea, Solovetsky Islands
in the White Sea, the New Siberian Islands and the small group Medvyezhii
of Islands off the coast of Siberia, the Commander Islands, Kamchatka,
islands and Shantar Saghalin in the Sea of Okhotsk.

The Aleutian archipelago was sold to the United States in 1867, along with Alaska, and in
1874 the Kuril Islands were ceded to Japan.
A variety of physical features is obviously expected in a territory like this, including on one
side, cotton and silk regions Turkestan and Trans-Caucasus, and on
the other moss and lichen tundra dresses Verkhoyansk Arctic and Siberian
pole of cold - the dry desert regions Transcaspian and watered by
the monsoons on the coast of the Sea of Japan.

However, if the border regions, that is, two narrow bands in the north and south, left out
of account, a striking uniformity of physical feature prevails. highlands, including the Pamir
(the "Roof of the World") or Armenia, and high mountain chains, like the snowy peaks of the
Caucasus, the Alay, the Thian-Shan, the Sayan, are met with only the periphery of empire.

Seen in general terms by the physical geographer, seems to occupy
the territory north-west of the great plateau-belt of the old continent
- the backbone of Asia - which extends to the decrease of the height
and width of the high table of the land of Tibet and the Pamir to
the lower plateaus of Mongolia, and then north east across the region
to the utmost Vitim Asia.



When those who had been chosen to do the planting went for the seed, it was found to have been
destroyed by rats, and not only the corn, but many other things which were in the storehouse,
had been eaten by the same animals. 

The first sign of welcome, I admit, is far from cordial, and there is always the risk of falling
into a trap cleverly stretched the game and foreigners, or be cleverly struck by a poisoned
arrow, but a Once a meeting has been achieved without any serious
consequences, it is not as difficult as it may be supposed to forward
it to a parley, fear (fearful and) individual is amazed at the extraordinary
event of the double is not killing yourself or not to have been killed
himself, according to the law of reciprocity which is inviolable.

Under the impression this is very strange, it will not prevent resistance to a peaceful understanding
and thereafter to ensure its friendship, he only needs a quick intuition
of the superstitions of the poor creature , beliefs and sensitivity
and a spirit of precaution against offend his vanity or childish in
any way cause jealousy or mistrust.

When he is satisfied that the presence of his unwelcome guest brings him no harm, he will give his
full confidence and self-protective accept you as a benevolent and powerful.
The dangers, I agree, are numerous and important, but more are those who watch a passenger armed.
The wilderness can be terrified and overwhelmed by the massacres of civilization asserts its
superiority tyrannical, but the poison of hatred came into his soul and he meditates and prepares
an ambush that sooner or later, without fail, give him his revenge.
The use of brute force (which for me is a political mistake) is a
considerable damage to the study of customs, beliefs, and psychological
characteristics of people with whom we have contact, because they
will be back on each inquiry or investigation, will be unwilling to
answer or lying to you, which explains the conflicting reports as
to the different passengers on the same tribe or race.

This dear reader, my belief is modest, their approach, it is also English, who are experts in
all aspects of colonization.

* * * * *
My bags are packed there was nothing left for me to find carriers that would be useful for me,
or as guides in the country of Sakais at least as an interpreter between me and the people.

Penang is populated predominantly by Malays, but many other breeds
are represented, especially China and India.

Without much difficulty I managed to retain the services of five carriers: a Malay, one Indian,
Chinese, Siamese and a Sam-Sam, a boy completely. Together they formed a small Babel I congratulated
myself would prove a great help in openings with Sakais.

All my disciples, with the exception of Sam-Sam, had faces that have graced the gallows and I
am sure that Lombroso [2] have classified without hesitation as born criminals. But their faces
did not prohibit the alarm because it is well known that the vilest villain becomes timid and servile
face an unexpected danger, and I know that the fear of tigers, snakes,
traps and poisoned arrows, the myriad mysteries of death, which contains
the beautiful forest in the middle of countless trees, amid the confusion
of his vines entwined in his thick soft foam and the rough would convert
these ugly face , individuals tortuous magnanimous docile lambs.

I knew that once they had entered a land, not knowing them, they will not abandon me, for the Oriental
faith in the European Union and will follow where the latter's son, himself assigning rare
qualities of courage and energy and a wonderful ability to overcome obstacles and difficult
situations.
* * * * *
We left Penang on a coaster and a rise of the Perak River about 60 miles we reached the small
town of Telok Anson, where we landed.
It was too early in the morning when we arrived for me to submit to British authority and local
officials have not any way to interfere with my free pass, or submit to any kind of inquisitorial
interrogations ( which in other colonies and protectorates in the
other I had been obliged to submit) I gave orders for immediate departure
that I wanted to start this March as soon as possible.

After dividing our load of provisions equally we crossed the Perak on a pier and a gialat "slamat"
(bon voyage) the man on board, we are standing on the shore where my adventures have begun. 
I
was there, then, with my face turned to a new land, and a shiver
of excitement filled me with joy.

 

However, when a dour writer, such as the one referred to above, overburdens himself, could
one expect anything more ludicrous? Or is it not reasonable to expect that the man was acting fraudulently,
and only made his index of doggerel subsequent to completing his
poem?

 Students frequently
abused the lenient rules, often dirtying and destroying the books. In fact, the small room often overflowed
with people - not only with academic persons, but also with curious visitors, most of whom served
to distract the readers. 

So you say everybody does it? No, that isn't the case.

There are quite a few who do this type of thing, but anyone in control
of their own thoughts would never do this.

If we only used our hands in a job where we were in complete control of them, then we would soon
become skilled in using our hands.
 

Nature of this language, advanced now is it may, But these assertions rest merely upon historical
evidence; for as to the CIA lover, all that it may have retained of the Tuscan or Roman, is
so much disfigured by an uncouth pronunciation and a vague orthography,
that all etymological inquiries are thereby rendered intricate and
unsatisfactory.

That the CIA a mixture of the Tuscan and of dialect of the Celtic spoken by the Limonitic but
these assertions rest merely upon historical by insepecting a few lines of the  tuscan or Roman
is so much disfigured by an  that is Roman much disfigured by an
uncouth vague orthogrpy by an uncouth pronuncition  etumological
inquries are thereby that all  for i found after many tedious experiments,
and as to the ladin although its derivation be more manifer when
we are equally ar a loss why period or branch of the latin tonge
to  trace its real origin that even the disnory  in which the blance
is sam very need evident  differs equally from the classical purity
of Tully, Caesar, and Sallust, as it does from the primitive Latin
of the twelve tables, of Ennius, and the columna rostralis of Duillius,as
the  case in all vernacular May we not from this circumstance infer,
that, as is the case in all vernacular tongues, the vulgar dialect
of the Romans is very usavel usualis, rustics, pedesstris there are
no monument extant differed very widely any time been used either
in writing or in the senate?

The grammatical the syntax, and the genius the must in this as well
as in several other morden eurapean tounges have been derived from
the  the application of two auxiliaries in the distinction of cases
by prepositions, this  roman lenguage the gallic pomance was solely
the distinction of cases by prepositions, the application of two
auxiliaries in the conjugations, do by no means agree with the Latin
turn of expression why has taken great pains to prove that the gallic
roman the most classical which even the most classical writers have
in this respect offended the purity of that refined language. the
patren was roman lenguage in information roman lenuage in this pragraph.

 

Hail Mary Most Holy! never seen such a spirit?

Holy Trinity! Is there such a struggle in all the killings? Now that we are still quite good
in the calendar of saints, he takes his Clock - The fight lasted long enough. Previous Champions
to rest, and another is available, Blackjack, and pictures of him
on the ears of other birds - brushing teeth his head, and bottom,
and back to get used to each method of attack.

 

A ten dollars reward will be granted to anyone who finds him and hands him over to the jailer, Mr.
Dudley, or to their supervisor. Be warned that you hide or abet said person at your own risk.

Thomas Curtis
August 8.
 

"He is making a kite." "He?" - asked Joe Myers - "He is a grown man, what does he know about
kites?"
"Anyway, he is comming now."

They went to the bars and looked, but yet no one has risen his kite.
"Wow, what a kite!"  "It is tall as he is!" "No, it isn't. It looks like because he is carrying
it on his shoulders." "It's an awful kite..."
Sim Vedder,was a thin man who works for Dr. Gay.

So thin was his face too, his hooked nose had a queer twist in it
half way to the point.

He was trying to get away from the enormous kite and and was comming towards us.
All the boys wanted to ask something, but they kept still because they didn't know what to ask.

"Are you kiting? First, just let me to take a look at your kites, and then you may look at mine.
One at a time. You made that kite by yourself Parley?"

"Yes, I made it."
"I guess there was plenty of wood around your house. Your kite is two feet high, mine is five,
but despite that your sticks are bigger than mine"
He turned the kite its face back and they saw the framework, which was made of plenty slender
slips and looked like ash or hickory wood.
"Mine is pine made", said Parley. "Yours will brake too."

"No, it won't. Maybe yours will fly. Set it, there is plenty of wind."
Parley setted the kite and because of the wind it began to go up.
"Joe! Hand me your kite." said Sim Vedder. 
"Mine is d'imond, I
don't know how to make other." 
"Do you think taht it will stand
steady, with those fore-bands so close together? No. See how it will
wiggle. Bob Jones, is that kite yours?"  
He handed the kite to
him. The boys were starring at Sim's big kite, and they believed in
his words. 
"It's not a bad kite, but the fore-bands are crossed
to low, probably it will just dive. 
"Sim, there is a big tail,
it cant dive!" 
"Tail, with a May weed at its end... How can that
big kite lift? I'll show you" replied Sim 
He crossed the fore-bands
over his little finger, and replaced them until the kite swung under
them. 

Except for being a wife or a mother, she was just a plaything for men, and she had hardly any
respect. On the other hand, the precieuses demanded respect and claimed as their right places
of honor next to men. “The 9.5?” he shouted in astonishment
and asked if he is going to London.

The adjutant deliberately lighted and cigar and remarked, it is only just for forty-eight hours.
The indignant Pilot exclaimed, “Forty-eight hours!” and raised his voice to surmount the
din. “What are you doing with forty-eight hours’ leave in London?” he asked. The Adjutant
explained that he is not going on leave but on duty.

The Stunt Pilot laughing mockingly added bitterly a question on what
duty he was going on.

The Adjutant unfurling his towel, answered calmly, if he really wanted to know, he is going to
there to buy a vacuum-cleaner for the Mess. The outraged Pilot calling him an annoying old
wangler, he made himself heard at last.
 

The government of Spain encourages and values this hatred, but there is no cause to be concerned
about them. Whites outnumber people of colour by six to one, and,
given their race's cowardice, this is enough to keep them in place. 

Just after the initial fifteen to twenty minutes during which the desired stocks went through a
roller coaster going up and down, hundreds of people's appetite calmed
down a bit and their view of business have relaxed. 

And this he did, earnestly hoping to dies in service to the saint, lest, so bright a light be
put out, the people of Ireland would once again walk in darkness. And the saint looked at
his soul borne into heaven by the angels, and taken a seat with the
martyrs. 

The town governor showed up after spending time in the market place, and led the group the aging
Moslem woman's home, in which they would stay the night. Major Harris observes that the three daughters
names were deserving of Fair Star and Prince Cherry. Their names were Sunbeam, Eve, and Sweet
Limes.

The women filled the home with a wonderful sense of humor, although it was scant, deplorably
dirty, and had no food or beds of any kind. The unlucky group had to then spend a night in the
wide open field, surely not equal to their miseries. They intensely suffered the cold,due to
being so close to the equator, and the turbulent rains came, draining
down inside the roof, and the doorway.

 

Nervous system degenerations give rise to progressive deterioration
of all intellectual and also ethical functions more specifically,
the decay which represents the phenomena of weak-mindedness, a lot
more complicated with sensational as well motor disturbances, then
gradually leads to completely stupidity.

Many of these mental disorders resulting from alcohol intoxication is very significant.
We do not make a mistake, if we claim that in between 20-25 per cent.
of all mental illnesses that are directly or indirectly related to
the evil consequences of self-indulgence in use alcoholic beverages.

This opinion is from several authorities of mental illness in all countries. The habitual self-indulgence
leads to severe (psychological?) Lesions (belonging to nervous system), which can show itself
in different types of insanity, but to express themselves, above
all, as mental weakness, is not only in the people whose nervous system
is impaired through inherited or acquired defects, but also among
those whose mental organization is unchanged.

In many cases, we see the lesser forms of madness or insanity in its complete form and psychological
disturbances are unclear, and neurosis, and epilepsy among this requires special attention.

Research among the insane patients department of Berlin Charite hospital,
the professor in charge Westfahl carried out by Dr. T. Gallen (Uber
die Beziehunger des Alcoholismus zur Epilepsie.

Inaug. Dissert. 1881, Berlin) shows that among 607 patients who had come into the ward as epileptic
insane or epileptics, are 150 that is 24.7 percent. had been addicted to alcholic drinks, out of
which 133 were before and 17 were after the disease had been proved,
further, out of 1572 patients with delirium tremens, alcoholism, alcoholic,
dementia, and ebrietas, 15.4 percent that is 243 were found epileptic,
and that intemperance was present in 221 before occurrenceof epilepsy
and, finally, amongst 2679 patients who entered the department during
six and a half years, 18 percent or 393 were epileptics and inebriates.

Of the 128 epileptics, those I was able to note during their visit
Institute Plotseurie, 21 per cent of them were drunkards, and 20 per
cent. were the offspring of intemperate parents.

If the list of injuries in which intemperance, as we have noticed,
does directly to the pshychologic or mental life of man is a very
important one, a devastating effect, which is result of intemperance
of parents inderectly, on the psychological foundation of their immediate
descendants would be great and catastrophic.

Children of dissolute parents often become drunkards like them, they get inherited degeneration
of the corrupted psychological foundation, and carry the influence of this degeneration through
their life.

Descendants of drunkards are not only grow weaker, get sick, and die very early, particularly
with brain diseases, but, as Howe, Dahl, Beach, Morel and others have indicated, they are
often born stupid, or shows signs of madness quiet early.

Under alcohol, the individual drinker Constitution would be reduced and depraved, and under
the law of inheritance, is heredicted to offspring.

Professor Bollinger, the last writer on inheritance of the disease (Stuttgart, 1882 - Cotta -
Uber Dererbung von Krankheiten), names of alcohol use transient abnormal
conditions, during which the design, its influence so that the children
of dissolute parents acquire pathological, and in particular neuro-pathological,
dispositions.

Intemperance, says the author, it is acute and its chronic form, often causes pathological changes
in the nervous system, and can thus pathological differences between children be partially
explained by the same parents.
