I loved him; I couldn't help it; but the family--why, they could hardly speak of him with patience.
To this day I regret his loss, and wish I had him back; but they--it is different with them.
He was a native, and came from Surat.  Twenty degrees of latitude lay between his birthplace
and Manuel's, and fifteen hundred between their ways and characters and dispositions.  I only
liked Manuel, but I loved Satan.  This latter's real name was intensely Indian.  I could not
quite get the hang of it, but it sounded like Bunder Rao Ram Chunder Clam Chowder.  It was
too long for handy use, anyway; so I reduced it.

When he had been with us two or three weeks, he began to make mistakes which I had difficulty
in patching up for him.  Approaching Benares one day, he got out of the train to see if he
could get up a misunderstanding with somebody, for it had been a weary, long journey and he
wanted to freshen up.  He found what he was after, but kept up his pow-wow a shade too long
and got left.  So there we were in a strange city and no chambermaid.  It was awkward for us,
and we told him he must not do so any more.  He saluted and said in his dear, pleasant way,
"Wair good." Then at Lucknow he got drunk.  I said it was a fever, and got the family's compassion,
and solicitude aroused; so they gave him a teaspoonful of liquid quinine and it set his vitals
on fire.  He made several grimaces which gave me a better idea of the Lisbon earthquake than
any I have ever got of it from paintings and descriptions.  His drunk was still portentously
solid next morning, but I could have pulled him through with the family if he would only have
taken another spoonful of that remedy; but no, although he was stupefied, his memory still
had flickerings of life; so he smiled a divinely dull smile and said, fumblingly saluting:

"Scoose me, mem Saheb, scoose me, Missy Saheb; Satan not prefer it, please."

Then some instinct revealed to them that he was drunk.  They gave him prompt notice that next
time this happened he must go.  He got out a maudlin and most gentle "Wair good," and saluted
indefinitely.

Only one short week later he fell again.  And oh, sorrow! not in a hotel this time, but in
an English gentleman's private house.  And in Agra, of all places.  So he had to go.  When
I told him, he said patiently, "Wair good," and made his parting salute, and went out from
us to return no more forever.  Dear me!  I would rather have lost a hundred angels than that
one poor lovely devil.  What style he used to put on, in a swell hotel or in a private house--snow-white
muslin from his chin to his bare feet, a crimson sash embroidered with gold thread around his
waist, and on his head a great sea-green turban like to the turban of the Grand Turk.

He was not a liar; but he will become one if he keeps on.  He told me once that he used to
crack cocoanuts with his teeth when he was a boy; and when I asked how he got them into his
mouth, he said he was upward of six feet high at that time, and had an unusual mouth.  And
when I followed him up and asked him what had become of that other foot, he said a house fell
on him and he was never able to get his stature back again. Swervings like these from the strict
line of fact often beguile a truthful man on and on until he eventually becomes a liar.

His successor was a Mohammedan, Sahadat Mohammed Khan; very dark, very tall, very grave.  He
went always in flowing masses of white, from the top of his big turban down to his bare feet.
His voice was low.  He glided about in a noiseless way, and looked like a ghost.  He was competent
and satisfactory.  But where he was, it seemed always Sunday. It was not so in Satan's time.

Jeypore is intensely Indian, but it has two or three features which indicate the presence of
European science and European interest in the weal of the common public, such as the liberal
water-supply furnished by great works built at the State's expense; good sanitation, resulting
in a degree of healthfulness unusually high for India; a noble pleasure garden, with privileged
days for women; schools for the instruction of native youth in advanced art, both ornamental
and utilitarian; and a new and beautiful palace stocked with a museum of extraordinary interest
and value.  Without the Maharaja's sympathy and purse these beneficences could not have been
created; but he is a man of wide views and large generosities, and all such matters find hospitality
with him.

We drove often to the city from the hotel Kaiser-i-Hind, a journey which was always full of
interest, both night and day, for that country road was never quiet, never empty, but was always
India in motion, always a streaming flood of brown people clothed in smouchings from the rainbow,
a tossing and moiling flood, happy, noisy, a charming and satisfying confusion of strange human
and strange animal life and equally strange and outlandish vehicles.

And the city itself is a curiosity.  Any Indian city is that, but this one is not like any
other that we saw.  It is shut up in a lofty turreted wall; the main body of it is divided
into six parts by perfectly straight streets that are more than a hundred feet wide; the blocks
of houses exhibit a long frontage of the most taking architectural quaintnesses, the straight
lines being broken everywhere by pretty little balconies, pillared and highly ornamented, and
other cunning and cozy and inviting perches and projections, and many of the fronts are curiously
pictured by the brush, and the whole of them have the soft rich tint of strawberry ice-cream.
One cannot look down the far stretch of the chief street and persuade himself that these are
real houses, and that it is all out of doors--the impression that it is an unreality, a picture,
a scene in a theater, is the only one that will take hold.

Then there came a great day when this illusion was more pronounced than ever.  A rich Hindoo
had been spending a fortune upon the manufacture of a crowd of idols and accompanying paraphernalia
whose purpose was to illustrate scenes in the life of his especial god or saint, and this fine
show was to be brought through the town in processional state at ten in the morning.  As we
passed through the great public pleasure garden on our way to the city we found it crowded
with natives.  That was one sight.  Then there was another.  In the midst of the spacious lawns
stands the palace which contains the museum--a beautiful construction of stone which shows
arched colonnades, one above another, and receding, terrace-fashion, toward the sky.  Every
one of these terraces, all the way to the top one, was packed and jammed with natives.  One
must try to imagine those solid masses of splendid color, one above another, up and up, against
the blue sky, and the Indian sun turning them all to beds of fire and flame.

Later, when we reached the city, and glanced down the chief avenue, smouldering in its crushed-strawberry
tint, those splendid effects were repeated; for every balcony, and every fanciful bird-cage
of a snuggery countersunk in the house-fronts, and all the long lines of roofs were crowded
with people, and each crowd was an explosion of brilliant color.

