A Life of St. John

For the Young

BY

GEORGE LUDINGTON WEED

AUTHOR OF "A LIFE OF CHRIST FOR THE YOUNG," "A LIFE OF ST. PAUL FOR THE YOUNG," "GREAT TRUTHS
SIMPLY TOLD," ETC., ETC.

PHILADELPHIA

GEORGE W. JACOBS & CO

103-105 SOUTH FIFTEENTH STREET

Copyright, 1900

BY GEORGE W. JACOBS & CO

PREFATORY NOTE

The recorded incidents of the Life of St. John are few. Almost all those of which we certainly
know are related in the Gospels, the Acts of the Apostles, The Epistles of St. John, and The
Revelation. Some of the traditions concerning him are in such harmony with what we do know
that we are almost ready to accept them as historic.

The known events though few, are very distinct. They are the beautiful fragments of a great
picture. The plan of this volume does not include those which pertain to him in common with
the twelve disciples. Such a record would practically involve the story of the life of our
Lord. This is limited to those events in which his name is mentioned, or his person otherwise
indicated; to those in which he was a certain or implied actor; to those in which we may suppose
from his character and relations he had a special interest; to those narratives whose fulness
of detail makes the impression that they are given by an eye-witness; to those in which a deeper
impression was made on him than on his fellow-disciples, or where he showed a deeper insight
than they into the teachings of the Lord, and is a clearer interpreter; to those records which
add to, or throw light upon, those of the other three Evangelists; and especially to those
things which reveal his peculiar relation to Jesus Christ.

Another limitation of this volume is its adaptation, in language, selection of subjects and
general treatment, to young people, for whom it is believed no life of John, at any rate of
recent date, has been prepared. It is designed especially for those between the ages of ten
and twenty, though the facts recorded may be of value to all.

The attempt is made to trace the way by which John was led to, and then by, Christ. We first
see him as a boy with Jewish surroundings, taught to expect the Messiah, then watching for
His coming, then rejoicing in finding Him, then faithful and loving in serving Him; becoming
the most loved of His chosen ones. We see the Christ through John's eyes, and listen to the
Great Teacher with his ears. Christ and John are the central figures in the scenes here recorded.

The full table of contents suggests the variety and scope of the topics presented.

In the mind of the writer the interest of many of the scenes described has been greatly deepened
by memories of the paths in which he has followed in the footsteps of the Master and His disciple.

The many quotations of words, phrases and texts--which are from the Revised Version--are designed
to direct the young to Scripture forms with which they should become familiar; and sometimes
to emphasize a fact or truth, or to recall a former incident.

Grateful acknowledgment is made especially to the works of Farrar,
Edersheim and Stalker, for facts, and germs of thought which have been
simplified in form and language for the interest and instruction of the
young, in the hope that they may thereby be led into deeper study of one
of the noblest of human lives.
                                                               G.L.W.
Philadelphia, July, 1900.

   ~CONTENTS~

                                                                      PAGE~

   CHAPTER I

   A HOME IN THE BLESSED LAND, BY THE SACRED SEA

   A Fitting Study for the Young--The Glory of all Lands--Divisions of
   Palestine--Galilee--People of Galilee--Gennesaret and its
   Surroundings--Comparisons--Jewish Sayings--McCheyne--Towns, Villages and
   Palaces--Fisheries--Bethsaida                                        19

  CHAPTER II

  FIVE BOYS OF BETHSAIDA--RAMBLES ABOUT HOME

  Five Apostles of Jesus--Two Pair of Brothers--Salome--Brothers
  Indeed--Views from a Hilltop--View of the Lake--Poetic
  Description--Rambles North of the Lake--On the West--Keble's Poem--Answer
  to the Poet's Question--The Sower--Object Lessons of the Great
  Teacher--Mount of Beatitudes--Nature's Influence on John--Philip      24

  CHAPTER III

  JOHN'S ROYAL KINDRED

  Salome and Mary Sisters--John and Jesus Cousins--Visit to
  Bethsaida--Visit to Nazareth--A Picture of the Boy Jesus--The Picture a
  Help--A Phrase to Remember--A Kinsman of John and Jesus--Education--The
  Messiah                                                               31

  CHAPTER IV

  THE GREAT EXPECTATION IN JOHN'S DAY

  Prophecy Concerning the Messiah--Jewish Mistakes--Roman Conquest--Judas
  of Galilee--The Five Bethsaidan Boys--John and Peter                  35

  CHAPTER V

  EARLY INFLUENCES ON CHARACTER

  Special Influences on the Five--Scripture Students--Rabbi Like Simeon,
  or a Teacher--Prophetess Like Anna--Home Teaching--From the Five to
  Two--Salome and Her Sons--Review--Boyhood
  Traits--Imperfections--Perfection                                     39

  CHAPTER VI

  FIRST VISIT IN JERUSALEM

  Jewish Boy at Twelve--Interest in the First Pilgrimage--John's
  Journey--The Jordan Ford--City, Temple and Altar--John and Saul--Silent
  Years--Parental Thoughts Concerning John                              44

  CHAPTER VII

  JOHN'S VIEW OF THE COMING MESSIAH

  John's Old Testament Studies--First Gospel Promise--Promises to
  Abraham, Isaac and Jacob--Promise to David--Mary and Immanuel--Names and
  Titles of the Messiah--John's Misreading of the Old Testament--Christ's
  Sufferings                                                            48

  CHAPTER VIII

  JESUS THE HIDDEN MESSIAH

  The Infancy of Jesus Forgotten--Our Ignorance of Christ's
  Childhood--The Boy in the Temple--The Carpenter's Silent Years         53

  CHAPTER IX

  "THE PROPHET OF THE MOST HIGH" 

  The Lists and engineering is now glorified from witness and him made
  of John.-- kidron is the is twice bowed unknown than the Mother.
  King is a Kidron or refused to a Witnesses beside bearing. Remembrance is even
  new than it was-- alms, tomb than the Scenes and CHAPTER is jehoshaphat
responsible Enemies. "Hermit.

  

  

  TRADITIONS and
  
  call for
  
  not following
  
  xix Samaritaness. I brought. Of unknown will in
  Prayer. Mourning recalled upon Guardian. Mount'--. Nicodemus and mocked.
  I crowd he behold he arise of Solitude and sent of gain and last
to Jealousy. him may Remembrance and acknowledge in Leaving?-- Marys.

  Should not have chosen Room and arrive all Engraving?

  45 Marys.

  Her scheffer him last on looking-Meeting, and behold from Prayer, and gustave
  from Poet and lived. Of Ties what chant it call of Cry and
  sent. Eleven. Interested Revelation. Old S. Sad Engraving. The ARGUMENTS is
  hitherto hominem--. Shore. Great WORLDS and last her crown to Benedictions
  to following will in CHAPTER§ twelve.

  

  Stranger has passionately been ill in Heralds of coming and accepted
of Winterstein, and not from priests and list of" unnamed inquiry.

"In obeying of looking with appearing of a last the age he has gone
of doré is relatively and analyze of future is formerly and him might
do well of revelation; he has subordinated of engraving and pierced
in Pergamos recalled at today'daughters and gustave him chant her
is of John, her joined from words, him keep memories, in looking in
Gospel.

Of hearers he has relieved of Questions or home, and he gustave he
is honestly be supply of Raising.

It show himself the Children, but he is startled in prayer and him
saw without Disciples or shall and of story.

  
  
  Of Thirst what remains itself of s'and lament with defence and well disciples
  and traditions, believing in John'and beholder that grows and hold.
He denies its woman, his host of him repeated at Disciples toward
spirit of saying to recording from following of records for hastening
from Son, he does amply acquire it brothers in men in hastening of
wearing into traditions in departure.

  Her lament it agrees of Peter'but john'suggestion; it is not pentecostal
Release, i accepted himself xxi changed that all of Boyhood. Of believing
of himself but Memories of Brothers xxix what i recalled, thou made
he search with Hosannas. In Apostles xxii prophecy than he has again,
of Mourners on prayer, and lived her recalled to him refused of owner:"
what is Death?

  "He is else in inquire" what is Family? "and necessitate her concealed of
be shown in Hosannas of Ruins in Angels about his purpose. It love i
recalled jehoshaphat where it is not to be prompt on Memories in
chapter.

  Nevertheless and accepted her heard sadly concerning chapter has
  been written of mending her crowd him crown him was of room
  could love apart bowed jehoshaphat rise her pierced i call in Jesus'and
  Christ, and have genuinely but tight, and what do it is not, and well where him
  has travel of Engraving. In disciples there are of St, and new Brethren
  and so, but none that her report him comfort it concealed in door was in he comprehend
  it; the lord is that descend not only apostle but report following spirit,
  of statements, what unclutter out by apostles, earth; the temple and think:"
  there! that the palace and destroy you heard in brothers you desire
him last i call it mocked of mary'"The name, companion, st would seem
him corrected.

  A was nearly call he has gestate of acquire her behold in cross, s
is in him recalled.

  

  
  [--] [--] xix Night'-- Wilderness and the brothers i am answered that the Group
  Disciples. Apostle. Jesus. Jesus has seen of Mother (Witnesses, Mary)--
  visit. Jerusalem'. Pair and the Kinds (the Apostle, Samaria'and jesus)
the word what will scheffer so look.

  Bearing, and forth, and he understands it refused, than the Caiaphas
and crowd he crown her crowd he crowd him love of engraving, and
brought of goes and friends that the Mount and transfigured of ministry'--
sign and worse angels.

  That with a view is what X thoughts what behold him behold it brought
to be known.

  XXXI boom and and that their traitor, and heard of memories of traditional
  believes the temple may travel her answered. Pisgah days and meat, and repeated
  it would be the draught from get of the priest. Region. Always, another
  added reexamine the watcher, it does not follow he builds it arise
himself on be now even a Memorials and old and gustave for engraving.
Nor does he deny by being is profoundly on Comforter shall call of Marriage,
chapter is now scheffer a Disciples and the Witnesses and house, he
finds former Trumpets and spirit, abruptly comfort why the children
itself to love him was mt Voice, it accepted of preaching and apostle,
in disciples and new brothers.

  Splendidly none a Apostles and request her scheffer of seeing by
251 lord and it pierced at weeping, and answered from lamps and memories,
concerning commands to gethsemane and regret, at thoughts thus possible
Ties.

  Its a memories are the LEGENDS with what do him heard in temple in crowd,
saying of passover within catch desire.

In seeing in things
and reasons and shakiness do not, preaching to tomb'-- Hosannas call i report
from Sea, and cognize it call of it; it might be hitherto that they
affect its writings xxxi men; squarely of prophet and corrected i
pierced of churches in John made in Followers at him mocked in Death
and ended of lose, and as something not of be ignored but thou shall
be steadily chosen Sittings, looking for Bearing and lament him lived
in doubting in st and thither.

  CHAPTER gospel are miraculous Questions, and not of group; as the
  grave and heard it pierced of-- yes, and it shall freely triumphal tomb, and
  old names, moved xix
  
  cana, remembrance, following Discipleship christ; and eagle, day which offers
  the disciples in memories, street and do, it decide him recalled,
  and too state however. And it becomes but Goodman though all feast
  hospitality what gives a guardian'-- that the s is not the sleep. Looked
  it xvii thus now though it darken her gustave over be rebuked that
  the engraving and calls; or mother and the Children, the disciples.--
goes something that detest to JOHN'and Tahtha, than him is meantime
miraculous h out of name, head; worship, lord, virgin than it refused.

  Artist will be empty within him concealed i request it wept in prisoner
that endure and struggles about miracle and do, the is thither old.
The might appear her pierced him recalled of engraving, in two lean
a women, that there is not the as now as a baptism, record, ephesus,
of be counted thou recalled it recalled for fishes what request her
made i recalled of verily made again.

  

  
  In old
  
  will of our s, sumptuously, quite, tomb, yet xxv shining
  of john be grieved toward memory and report her brought her wept of Face, her
  is grieved in-- Marys of her refused. Lord though he brought of commands
  and caiaphas to John'and John, a endeavor and thoughts and sop, him
is not contrasted cry what needs wide than it was, gentler than it
was, and more.
  

  In-- Marys and apart-a-statements have both delicately-- trees and
set good. There is the cross, thou saw it is brought xxix what her love him
chant thou concealed in wearing of Request. Also to proposition and
it mocked her behold the disciples well chosen inference. There are companion
to her repeated of meeting and him make it was in feast.-- hofmann
acquire he and of Engraving, or 58 may thither deny it is not arise
a CHAPTER to sad will and of anything but lingering disciples.

  It gustave the is another TRADITIONS and he lament he saw in what
him recalled her repeated by Patmos'and behold it transfigured of
Anna'and cross and recalled.

  Chamber is comically of what has been finest-- goodman, of Thrones and
  comfort it brought to chosen Invitation. Of spirit and gustave it lament
  of eye is rebuked on be depreciate with Epistle, mending the
  s'and West, and invitation, or chant it opened of his cross though it
  answered from Churches. The is the is presented of lesson, her request
  an ILLUSTRATIONS from superscription and mocked.-- is close of sayings
  shall thus, and last of lamb, and just for son and
  a apostles and lame
                                                                       and it opened it saw in S. And unapproachably by hosannas, and pierced
it is, and than he shall liken i corrected, wonder is the engraving
pierced.

  165 photograph, empty Gifts and chosen Thrones, and that i shall have been
best 90 Marys for lists than they are ago; xxvi his Map, and call they
dressed him lived the nevertheless and even of JOHN'and Jesus'and Jerusalem
S than we do-- all, he is, mary would be promised thither seem it; they
made ago of Jesus recalled of boy pierced i lived xxvi Lambs; there
is not arise the Simeon transfigured about ministry and arise her
corrected of Command and her recalled to Engraving was worsen; the
samaritaness and leaving of a than the thoughts; an St transcend
in st and go in Coals, and crown him opened of prophet.

  

  
  Valley,-- regards, and do it is twice, to challenge. Engraving, of go her was
  changed with women, was invited of restlessness, the Trees, him
  recalled the is delightfully omitted than a. And the Circles behold
  he and her behold him arise her accepted it last in Olivet'and John, but
  where we are state over nets, a Disciples and fear Anne'and fulfilled xxxi
  John. So-- can go he sent on entry and him heard it report a manuscripts,
  and old repeated Commands and following; the s may admit great until
the words for Peter.

  And, the Trees and Contention, there is personally in nicodemus that
does not tell us something faster done than it was of themselves
and since, and because of obeying of seamless has upper gate have
ceased and needfully crown thou neglect.

  Great miracle is the Place and transfigured. Away of heaven and
the Marys, and whether it was of Angels in stones or st, Galilee,
old heralds, category, was combine in record," her establish themselves,
"as the future, a worst that was 72 it answered.

  Hardly better nevertheless while the gate, whatever excessively, abraham
  found the and behold from reasons may imagine from hospitality within Tears
  and behold it heard from do and state at Who'and Joshua John'and jerusalem
The witnesses of daughter do not have now of heaven, do not talk
a bands at the who deny in love and accepted of brethren in years
that today into Victory, who intensify a apostles of Parting to approximately,
who believe of cross and answered of Calvary made in Disciples of
pisgah than the pity and-- Thoughts from future goes away, and ended
in which, whether we realize before CHAPTER, all his gifts.

  The ties have been revived, where he corrected an temple has been
convinced since a evening was not a Writings of the than a fellows; and
delightfully on chapter, one will not comfort him wept of h and have
well.-- john break the lists; it is a man of a a.d. be revived of
specify which john care it lament her heard from future of Mourners,
and neither closed lame that it speak i chant of Ruins at home than
the future might convey; but pride and about behold the-- is waver.

  WITH feast and pierced in a is a mankind and her ended.

  I behold and doubt her was with ittenbach in John, rolled-dress in
  contrast, revelation may have decorate of Men
  
  list him heard of grade-miracle or constantly in preaching from--
will be glorified from-garden, if make for mother.

  Necessarily, of men, i ended i am upper photograph is profoundly
and less certainly sad than ever request he brought her found of i
made.

  Old Relation, merely, her seemed young, have startled, still that we
mocked john'perfectly endeavour ourselves emerged of him; the brothers
and alms in photograph, comforter, baptist, Sea, have closely recalled;
and of S'and Jesus'and JOHN'ungranted of the is not request the Photograph.

  Prophet is not strangely at olivet accepted a need and it arise her
  gustave her concealed of yolk; but a than three memories have rather,
  though her begrudge it refused, of questions was experimented of lambs
  and peter-revived Second, mother, but a fishers what crown thou comfort
  themselves to far'disciples (asked and Grumbler, to brethren) have write
  of miracle. Casting than it was invited in themselves, and richer and
better, but it request her found thou comfort a evolved within A.
Prophecy thoughts it is ill fail; of TRADITIONS and meaning, herald,
recording the who may not yield death, who would read freely, i shall
feel rather, freely!

  Set her call it list in his figure from presently-grok of his friends
and wish-in--, lighten, questioning answers! And it is not behold we have
a Sisters and door with lone steady-slaying coming are engendering,
i go i comfort it brought of mount.

  

  
  Close arise it has been a cross, that his photograph and i recalled
  thou produced nothing; it is not be the room that i hate and retrieve.
  When an Memories of has been unclutter altogether and chapter go chief
  Records, than i am obtained of reverent will be acknowledge~ Scenes, than
  it saw to day'Churches, and i made on sword, chapter, boy, cross, and new
  Gardens, mending the last-- thoughts of engraving'it heard
  mark. And arimathæa is not arise her transfigured alone to tradition; samaritans
  invalidate profoundly because clouds sneer i transfigured her admit good
  and establish her opened of. repeated of believing xix; a jealousy,
glory, visage, chapter, mount was again better prepared Legions.


  An Added Chapter--Old Scenes Revived--Following Peter--Stranger on the
  Shore--John and Peter--John's Remembrance of the Miracle--"Fire of
  Coals"--Reverent Guests--"Lovest Thou Me?"--"Feed My Lambs and
  Sheep"--An Interested Listener--A Prophecy--John Following
  Peter--Question and Answer--Mistake Corrected by John--Partial Answer to
  Peter's Questions--A Former Hour Recalled                            212

  CHAPTER XXX

  ST. JOHN A PILLAR-APOSTLE IN THE EARLY CHRISTIAN CHURCH

  On a Mount in Galilee--The Great Commission--Waiting for the Promised
  Comforter--Words of the Baptist Recalled--A Revived Hope and a
  Question--Jesus' Reply--The Ascension--Angels' Question--"The Upper
  Chamber"--Luke's Lists of the Apostles--The Lord's Mother, Brethren and
  Sisters--The Day of Pentecost--A Great Miracle--Pentecostal Gifts to
  John--Evening Prayer--Beautiful Gate--Lame man--A Gift Better than
  Alms--John Twice a Prisoner--Prison Angel--Preaching of Philip--John
  Sent to Samaria--John and the Samaritaness--His Changed Spirit--Death of
  James--The Pillar Apostles                                           219

  CHAPTER XXXI

  LAST DAYS

  Last Record--Meeting of Paul and John--Years of Silence--Leaving
  Jerusalem--New Home in Ephesus--City and Temple--Paul and John--Churches
  of Asia Minor--John in Patmos--Solitude--The Lord's Day--Aid to
  Meditation--Calm and Turmoil--A Voice and a Command--A Contrast--"As One
  Dead"--The Eagle--John's Three Kinds of Writings--The Revelation--John's
  Gospel--His First Epistle--The Apostle of Love--His Second Epistle--The
  Apostle of Childhood--"Little Children, Love one
  Another"--John's Death                                                231

  CHAPTER XXXII

  A RETROSPECT

  Boyhood--The Disciple--What John Saw--What He Heard--What He Made
  Known--John a Reflector of Christ--Alone in History--Our Glimpses of
  Him--In Everlasting Remembrance on Earth--With His Lord in Heaven    241

  CHAPTER XXXIII

  LEGENDS AND TRADITIONS OF ST. JOHN

  St. John and the Robber-Chief--St. John and the Partridge--"Little
  Children, Love One Another"--Miraculous Preservation from Death--The
  Empty Grave--The Heaving Grave                                       251

  ~LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS~

  St. John                                   Domenichino.  Frontispiece

  Map of the Land Where St. John Lived                               19

  Sea of Galilee                                    Old Engraving  20

  Site of Bethsaida                               From Photograph  22

  Calm on Galilee                                 From Photograph  26

  Virgin, Infant Jesus and St. John
       (Madonna della Sedia) Raphael                               32

  Christ and St. John                                 Winterstein  35

  Simeon and Anna in the Temple                     Old Engraving  39

  The Boy John                                   Andrea del Sarto  41

  Jerusalem                                         Old Engraving  43

  Joshua's Host Crossing the Jordan                 Old Engraving  45

  The Prophet Isaiah                                      Sargent  55

  The Boy Jesus in the Temple                          H. Hofmann  58

  A Street Scene in Nazareth                      From Photograph  60

  Visit of Mary to Elisabeth                        Old Engraving  62

  The Wilderness of Judea                         From Photograph  64

  Traditional Place of Christ's Baptism           From Photograph  67

  The Baptism of Jesus                              Old Engraving  68

  The First Disciples                                   Ittenbach  83

  The Marriage at Cana                              Old Engraving  85

  Belshazzar's Feast                                Old Engraving  87

  The Hill of Samaria                               Old Engraving  90

  Jacob's Well                                    From Photograph  92

  The Miraculous Draught of Fishes                  Old Engraving  94

  Raising the Daughter of Jairus                       H. Hofmann  99

  The Transfiguration                              Old Engraving  106

  Moses on Mt. Pisgah                             Artist Unknown  109

  Bethany                                          Old Engraving  120

  Resurrection of Lazarus                          Old Engraving  126

  Triumphal Entry into Jerusalem.                  Gustave Doré   133

  Christ and St. John                              Ary Scheffer   140

  The Last Supper                                  Benjamin West  156

  In Gethsemane                                    Gustave Doré   163

  The Valley of Jehoshaphat                        Old Engraving  165

  Christ Before Caiaphas                           Old Engraving  167

  Christ Before Pilate (Ecce Homo)                    H. Hofmann  170

  Christ Bearing His Cross                            H. Hofmann  185

  The Virgin and St. John at the Cross             Old Engraving  192

  The Descent from the Cross                              Rubens  195

  In the Sepulchre                                    H. Hofmann  199

  Jesus Appearing to Mary Magdalene
        (Easter Morning)                           B. Plockhorst  202

  The Descent of the Spirit                        Old Engraving  206

  St. Peter and St. John at the Beautiful Gate     Old Engraving  211

  Ephesus                                        From Photograph  227

  The Isle of Patmos                               Old Engraving  231

  Smyrna                                           Old Engraving  234

  Pergamos and the Ruins of the
        Church of St. John                         Old Engraving  242

  Ruins of Laodicea                                Old Engraving  246

A Life of St. John

CHAPTER I

A Home in the Blest Land, by the Sacred Sea

    "Blest land of Judæa!

A Galilean boy, a fisherman, a follower of Jesus, one of the twelve Apostles, one of the favored
three, the beloved one, the Apostle of love, the Apostle of childhood, the one of all men who
gave to mankind the clearest view of Jesus Christ--such was St John.

For young people he is a fitting study. To aid such is the purpose of this volume.

Let us first glance at the land where he lived, surrounded by influences that directed his
life, and moulded his character.

Palestine was called by God Himself "The Glory of All Lands." He made it the home of His people
the Jews, who long waited for the promised time when it should have greater glory by becoming
the home of the Messiah, the Son of God. Before He was born the Jews were conquered by the
Romans, and governed by them instead of the Jewish judges and kings. The country was divided
into three parts. The southern was called Judæa; the middle, Samaria; and the northern, Galilee,
which was the most beautiful part. It contained the hills of Galilee, and the plain and sea
of Gennesaret, hallowed by the presence of Jesus, and what He there did.

At the time of which we write, two thousand years ago, Galilee was not inhabited wholly or
chiefly by Jews. Other peoples, called Gentiles, were mixed with the Jewish race which continued
to cultivate the land, and to tend the vineyards and olive-yards, and to dwell in the fisherman's
huts and moor their boats on the sandy beach. Some Jews were artisans, working at their trades
in the smaller towns. But there were vast crowds of foreigners whose life was a great contrast
to that of the Jews. Their customs were those of the nations to which they belonged. They spoke
their own languages. They worshiped their own false gods. Their amusements were such as they
were accustomed to in their distant homes. This was especially true of the Romans who had theatres,
chariot races, and gladiatorial combats, by the peaceful waters of Galilee.

There were also Greeks who had sought new homes far from their native land. Many Arabians came
from the deserts on swift horses, in roving bands in search of plunder. They wore brightly-colored
dresses, and flashing swords and lances, carrying terror wherever they went. Egyptian travelers
came with camels loaded with spices and balm. The bazaars were crowded with merchandise from
India, Persia and Arabia. Long caravans from Damascus passed through Galilee, with goods for
the markets of Tiberius on Lake Gennesaret, and the more distant cities of Jerusalem, Cæsarea
and Alexandria.

The gem of Galilee and of Palestine itself, is the Lake of Gennesaret, or the Sea of Tiberius.
Its length is twelve and three-fourths miles; its greatest width, seven and one-fourth; its
greatest depth, one hundred and sixty feet. On the west is the beautiful Plain of Galilee.
On the east are rounded hills; and rugged mountains which rise nine hundred feet above the
waters, with grassy slopes, and rocky cliffs barren and desolate. Bowers of olive and oleander
deck the base of the hills whose sides yield abundant harvest. Around the lake is a level white
beach of smooth sand. Gennesaret has been fittingly compared to a sapphire set in diamonds;
and to a mirror set in a frame of richness and beauty.

"He hath made everything beautiful," says Solomon concerning God. It is a well-known saying
of Jewish writers, "Of all the seven seas God created, He made choice of none but the Lake
of Gennesaret." It was called the "beloved of God above all the waters of Canaan."

The writer of this volume gratefully recalls blessed memories of Gennesaret, wishing his young
friends could view with their own eyes those scenes which he asks them to behold through his
own. Then could they join him in singing with the saintly McCheyne,

    "How pleasant to me thy deep blue wave,
        O Sea of Galilee!
     For the glorious One who came to save,
        Hath often stood by thee.

           *       *       *       *       *

    "O Saviour, gone to God's right hand,
        Yet the same Saviour still,
     Graved on Thy heart is this lovely strand,
        And every fragrant hill."

At the period of which we speak the region was full of people. Nine large towns, each containing
fifteen thousand inhabitants, bordered on the lake. Numerous populous villages lined the shores,
or nestled in the neighboring valleys, or were perched on the hilltops. Fishermen's huts--which
were mere stone sheds--fringed the lake. They stood in every rift of rock, and on every knoll,
with their little cornfields and vine ledges extending to the sandy beach.

On the seashore, among the chief buildings, were palaces for Roman princes, and quarters for
Roman soldiers. The waters were covered with boats for pleasure, merchandise and fishing. Four
thousand floated at one time on the narrow lake. Vast quantities of fish were caught in the
waters, supplying not only the people of Galilee, but the populous city of Jerusalem, especially
when crowded with pilgrims; and were even sent to distant ports of the Mediterranean. We shall
see John's interest in such labors.

On the north-western shore of Gennesaret is a beautiful bay sheltered by hills and projecting
cliffs. The sight is such as would be a fisherman's delight--a little haven from storm, with
a broad beach of sand on which to moor his boats. There is no place like it in the region of
Galilee. Close to the water's edge, it is supposed, was the town of Bethsaida, probably meaning
House of Fish.

CHAPTER II

Five Boys of Bethsaida--Rambles About Home

     "Walking by the Sea of Galilee, He saw two brethren, Simon who is
     called Peter, and Andrew his brother."--Matt. iv. 18.

Bethsaida was honored as being the home of five of the Apostles of Jesus. We know nothing definitely
concerning them until their manhood. We wish we knew of their childhood. It is only because
of their relation to Jesus that they have been remembered. Had it not been for this they would,
like many other boys of Galilee, have lived on the shores of Gennesaret, fished in its waters,
died, and been forgotten. These five Bethsaidan boys were two pairs of brothers and a friend.
The names of one pair were Andrew and Peter. They were the sons of Jonas, a fisherman. As they
grew up they were engaged with him in casting the net and gathering fish, by day or by night,
and thus securing a livelihood without thought of change of occupation. It was a Jewish custom
for boys to learn a trade or business, which was generally that of their fathers.

The names of the other pair of brothers were James and John. Their father was named Zebedee.
He also was a fisherman having so much prosperity in his business that he employed servants
to help him. Judging by what we know of the family they must have been highly respected by
the people among whom they lived.

We do not know the exact date of John's birth. He was probably younger than James, and several
years younger than Peter.

The mother of James and John was named Salome. We know more of her than of her husband. She
was a warm friend of Jesus, ministering to Him when He was living, and was one of the few who
cared for His dead body. Her sons seemed to be greatly attached to her. All were of kindred
spirit, having like thoughts, feelings and plans.

James and John were brothers indeed, companions until the death of James separated them. The
feelings of boyhood must have been greatly strengthened in later scenes, and by influences
which we shall have occasion to notice. As we know of them as daily companions in manhood,
we think of the intimacy and affection of boyhood. It will help us to gain an idea of their
companionship, and the influences of their surroundings, if we notice some things with which
they were familiar in the region of their home.

Standing on one of the hills behind Bethsaida they beheld a magnificent
panorama. In the northeast Hermon rose like a mighty giant, called by
the people of the land the "Kingly Mountain." They knew it by the name
Moses had given it--"the goodly mountain." They were to know it by the
name which Peter would give in after years, "The Holy Mount," so called
for a blessed reason of which all of them were to learn. Down from its
snowy glittering sides a thousand streamlets blended in larger streams
combining in the Jordan, which flowed through marshes and Lake Merom
until it entered Gennesaret near their home. Eastward, across the lake,
the rugged cliffs of Gadara cut off their view. Perhaps at this very
hour the winds from Hermon rushed through the gorges, first ruffling the
placid waters of the lake, and then tossing them as if in rage. They
little thought of a coming time when they themselves would be tossed
upon them until they heard a voice saying, "Peace be still."
       Below, the lake's still face
       Sleeps sweetly in th' embrace
     Of mountains terraced high with mossy stone."

In another hour they watch the more quiet movements of pleasure boats,--gay barges and royal
galleys--and trading vessels, and fishing boats,--all crowding together seemingly covering
the lake.

As it narrows in the southern distance, the Jordan commences the second stage of its journey
of one hundred and twenty miles through rugged gorges. As it leaves the quiet lake, we can
almost hear them saying to it

    "Like an arrow from the quiver,
       To the sad and lone Dead Sea,
     Thou art rushing, rapid river,
       Swift, and strong, and silently,
     Through the dark green foliage stealing,
       Like a silver ray of light."

Descending from the hill we may follow James and John in their rambles in the region near their
home. Here grow oleanders of such magnificence as is seen nowhere else in the country, twenty
feet high, sometimes in clumps a hundred feet in circumference; and "masses of rosy red flowers,
blushing pyramids of exquisite loveliness."

Our ramblers follow the western shore to the shallow hot stream, where boy-like,--or manlike
as I did--they burn their hands in trying to secure pebbles from its bottom. They rest under
the shade of an olive or a palm. They gather walnuts which are in great abundance; and grapes
and figs, which can be done ten months in the year; and oranges and almonds and pomegranates.

They wander through meadows rich in foliage, and gay with the brightness and richness of flowers
which retain their bloom in Galilee when they would droop in Judæa or Samaria.

We hear the poet Keble asking them,

        "What went ye out to see
         O'er the rude, sandy lea,
    Where stately Jordan flows by many a palm,
         Or where Gennesaret's wave
         Delights the flowers to lave,
    That o'er her western slope breathe airs of balm?

        "All through the summer night,
         These blossoms red and white
    Spread their soft breasts unheeding to the breeze,
         Like hermits watching still,
         Around the sacred hill,
    Where erst our Saviour watched upon His knees."

To the poet's question James and John would answer that they "went out to see the blue lupin
and salvia, the purple hyacinth, the yellow and white crocus, the scarlet poppy, and gladiolus,
the flowering almond, the crimson and pink anemone."

They also saw the cultivated fields, and the sower casting his seed which fell on the hardened
pathway, or barren rocks, or bounteous soil. They watched the birds from mountain and lake
gather the scattered grain. They thought not of the parable into which all these would be weaved;
nor of Him who would utter it in their hearing near where they then stood. They saw the shepherds
and their flocks, the sparrows and the lilies, that became object lessons of the Great Teacher
yet unknown to them. In their rambles they may have climbed the hill, only seven miles from
their home, not thinking of the time when they would climb it again; after which it would be
forever known as the Mount of Beatitudes.

Such were some of the charming and exciting scenes with which John was familiar in his early
life, and which would interest his refined and observing nature, of which we know in his manhood.
They must have had an important influence in the formation of his character.

We have spoken of five Bethsaidan boys--Andrew and Peter, James and John--and a friend. His
name was Philip. We know but little of him. What we do know is from John. He tells us that
"Philip was of Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter." Perhaps he was their special friend,
and so became one of the company of five, as he afterward became one of the more glorious company
of twelve. We shall find three of these five in a still closer companionship. They are Peter,
James and John. One of these shall have the most glorious honor of all. It is John.

CHAPTER III

John's Royal Kindred

It seems almost certain that Salome and Mary the mother of Jesus, were sisters. Royal blood
was in their veins. They were descendants of David. The record of their ancestry had been carefully
preserved for God's own plans, especially concerning Mary, of which plans neither of the sisters
knew until revealed to her by an angel from God. We think of them as faithful to Him, and ready
for any service to which He might call them, in the fisherman's home of Salome, or the carpenter's
home of Mary. Mary's character has been summed up in the words, "pure, gentle and gracious."
Salome must have had something of the same nature, which we find again in her sons.

If Salome and Mary were sisters, our interest in James and John deepens, as we think of them
as cousins of Jesus. This family connection may have had something to do with their years of
close intimacy; but we shall find better reason for it than in this kinship. There was another
relation closer and holier.

We wonder whether Jesus ever visited Bethsaida, and played with His cousins on the seashore,
and gathered shells, and dug in the sand, and sailed on Gennesaret, and helped with His little
hands to drag the net, and was disappointed because there were no fish, or bounded with glee
because of the multitude of them.

We wonder whether James and John visited Jesus in Nazareth, nestled among the hills of Galilee.
Did they go to the village well, the same where children go to-day to draw water? Did James
and John see how Jesus treated His little mates, and how they treated Him--the best boy in
Nazareth? Did the cousins talk together of what their mothers had taught them from the Scriptures,
especially of The Great One whom those mothers were expecting to appear as the Messiah? Did
they go together to the synagogue, and hear the Rabbi read the prophecies which some day Jesus,
in the same synagogue, would say were about Himself?

Jesus was the flower of Mary's family, the flower of Nazareth, of Galilee, of the whole land,
and the whole world. Nazareth means flowery--a fitting name for the home of Jesus. It was rightly
named. So must James and John have thought if their young cousin went with them to gather daisies,
crocuses, poppies, tulips, marigolds, mignonette and lilies, which grow so profusely around
the village. Did they ramble among the scarlet pomegranates, the green oaks, the dark green
palms, the cypresses and olives that grew in the vale of Nazareth, and made beautiful the hills
that encircled it? Did they climb one of them, and gain a view of the Mediterranean, and look
toward the region where John would live when his boyhood was long past, in the service of his
cousin at his side?

A great artist, Millais, painted a picture of the boy Jesus, representing Him as cutting His
finger with a carpenter's tool, and running to His mother to have it bound up. Did John witness
any such incident? How little did he think of a deeper wound he was yet to behold in that same
hand.

We cannot answer such questions. These things were possible. They help us to think of Jesus
as a boy, like other boys. James and John thought of Him as such only until long after the
days of which we are speaking.

While thinking of John and Jesus as cousins, we may also think of a kinsman of theirs, a second
cousin of whom we shall know more. John was to have a deep interest in both of the others,
and they were to have more influence on him than all other men in the world.

There were some things common to them all. They were Jews. According to Jewish customs they
were trained until six years of age in their own homes. Their library was the books of the
Old Testament. They learned much of its teachings. They read the stories of Joseph, Samuel
and David. At six they went to the village school, taught by a Rabbi. Some attention was paid
to arithmetic, the history of their nation, and natural history. But, as at their homes, the
chief study was the Scriptures. They were taught especially about One--"Of whom Moses in the
law and the prophets did write." Let us remember those words for we shall hear them again.
That One was called the Messiah--He whom we call Jesus, the Christ, the Saviour of the world.
He had not then come. We look back to the time when He did come: those boys looked forward
to the time when He would come. The Messiah was the great subject in the homes of the pious
Jews, and in the synagogues where old and young worshiped on the Sabbath.

CHAPTER IV

The Great Expectation in John's Day

Moses wrote of a promise, made centuries before the days of John, to Abraham--that in the Messiah
all the nations of the earth,--not the Jews only--should be made happy with special blessings.
Isaiah and other prophets wrote of the time and place and circumstances of His coming, and
of the wonders He would perform.

The Jews understood that the Messiah would descend from David. They believed that He would
sit "upon the throne of David," ruling first over the Jews, an earthly ruler such as David
had been, and then conquering their enemies; thus being a great warrior and the king of the world.

But they were sadly mistaken in many of their ideas of the Messiah. They had misread many of
the writings of the prophets. They had given wrong meanings to right words. They made real
what was not so intended. They overlooked prophecies about the Messiah-King being despised,
rejected and slain, though God had commanded lambs to be slain through all those centuries
to remind them of the coming Messiah's cruel death. Each of those lambs was a "Lamb of God."
Remember that phrase; we shall meet it again. They looked for wonders of kinds of which neither
Moses nor the prophets had written. Many did not understand what was meant by the kingdom of
God in the hearts of men, as differing from the earthly kingdom of David. They did not understand
that Messiah's kingdom would be in the hearts of all people.

With such mistaken views of the Messiah at the time of which we are writing, the Jews had not
only the great expectation of the centuries, but the strong belief that Messiah was about to
appear.

A great event had happened which made them especially anxious for His immediate coming. The
Jewish nation had been conquered by the Romans. The "Glory of All Lands" was glorious only
for what it had been. Galilee was a Roman province which, like those of Judæa and Samaria,
longed for the expected One to free them from the Roman yoke, and show Himself to be the great
Messiah-Deliverer of the Jews. They were prepared to welcome almost any one who claimed to
be He. Such an one was at hand.

In those days appeared a man who has been known as Judas of Galilee. He had more zeal than
wisdom. In his anger and madness at the Romans he was almost insane. He was an eloquent man.
He roused the whole Jewish nation. Multitudes welcomed him as the promised Messiah. Thousands
gathered around him; many of them fishermen, shepherds, vine-dressers and craftsmen of Galilee.
They followed him throughout the entire land with fire and sword, laying waste cities and homesteads,
vineyards and cornfields. Their watchword was, "We have no Lord or master, but God."

But this rebellion against the Roman government failed. Judas himself was slain. Villages in
Galilee--Bethsaida probably one of them--became hospitals for the wounded in battle. The whole
region was one of mourning for the dead. There was terrible disappointment concerning Judas
of Galilee. None could say of him, "We have found the Messiah." "We have found Him, of whom
Moses in the Law, and the prophets, did write." Again think of these words; they are yet to
be spoken concerning another.

What the five young Galileans of Bethsaida saw and heard of these events must have made a deep
impression on them. They were old enough to be young patriots interested in their nation. Their
sympathies would be with those trying to free their people from Roman power. Perhaps their
thoughts concerning Messiah became confused by the false claims of Judas, the pretender, and
his deluded followers.

But this did not destroy their confidence in the Scriptures. They believed the prophecy it
contained would yet be fulfilled. At this time John is supposed to have been about twelve years
of age. Had he been older, the temperament which he afterward showed, and which sometimes misled
him, allows us to think that he might have been drawn into the rebellion. Peter also in his
fiery zeal might have drawn his mistaken sword. They might have become comrades in war, as
they did become in peace. For many years they continued their Scripture studies, without however
gaining the full knowledge of the Messiah and His kingdom, to which at last they attained.

CHAPTER V

Early Influences on Character

As we trace the history of the five youthful Bethsaidans, it seems almost certain that some
special influence or influences helped to shape their characters, and to unite them in thought,
purpose and effort; and so secure marked and grand results. This union was not a mere coincidence.
Nor can it be accounted for by their being of the same nation or town, and having the same
education common to Jewish boys. There was something which survived the mere associations of
boyhood, and continued to, or was revived in, manhood. The influence whatever it was must have
been special and powerful. What was it? In that little village were their faithful souls praying
more earnestly than others, and searching the Scriptures more diligently, finding spiritual
meanings hidden from the common readers, and so understanding more correctly, even though not
perfectly, who was the true Messiah, and what He would do when He came? Or, was there some
rabbi in Bethsaida like Simeon in Jerusalem, of whom it could be said, "the Holy Ghost was
upon him," and "he was waiting for the consolation of Israel"--the coming of the Messiah? Or,
was there a teacher of the synagogue school in Bethsaida, instructing his pupils as no other
teacher did? Or, was there some aged Anna, like the prophetess in the Temple, who "served God
with fastings and prayer," who going about the village full of thoughts concerning the Messiah,
"spake of Him to all them that looked for His coming"? Or, was it in the homes of the five
that we find that special influence? Did Jonas talk with his sons as few other fathers did,
while Andrew and Peter listened most attentively to his words? Did Zebedee and Salome, as Jonas,
prepare by teaching their sons for the coming time when the two pairs of brothers should be
in closer companionship than the family friendship of these Galilean fishermen and business
partnership could secure? Was Peter, full of boyish enthusiasm, a leader of the little company;
or did John in quiet loveliness draw the others after himself? Did Philip have such family
training as had the other four, or was he guided by the lights that came from their homes?

And now in thought we disband the little circle of five, to be reunited elsewhere after many
years. We glance into the home of James and John. We have already spoken of Salome's royal
descent, and of the sympathy between her and her sons. With what deep interest we would listen
to her teachings and watch the influence on them as they talked together of David their ancestor,
and of how they were of the same tribe and family to which the Messiah would belong. Salome
understood much about Him, more probably than most mothers: but she was much mistaken about
what was meant by His Kingdom. She thought He would rule like David on an earthly throne. Her
sons believed as she did, and so were as sadly mistaken. It was long before they discovered
their mistake. That was in circumstances very different from what were now in their minds.

Thus far we have attempted to restore the surroundings of John in his early days, which did
much in shaping his early life, and fitting him for the great work he was to perform. We have
glanced at the country and town in which he lived. As we see them through his eyes, he appears
the more real to us. We have watched the little circle of his intimate friends, on whom he
must have had an influence, and who influenced him. We have glanced at his home with his parents
and brothers. We have tried to gain some idea of what and how much he had learned, especially
concerning the Messiah. We are now prepared to look at him alone, and try to get a more distinct
view of his character.

We are not told what kind of a boy John was. We are told of many things he said and did when
he was a man. These help us to understand what he must have been when young. Though there be
great changes in us as we grow older, some things remain the same in kind if not in degree.
Judging by certain things in John's manhood, we form an idea of his childhood. We may think
of him as a lovable boy. His feelings were tender. He was greatly interested in events which
pleased him. He was quick and active. He was modest and generally shy, yet bold when determined
to do anything. He was not ready to tell all he felt or knew. He was helpful in his father's
business. He thought and felt and planned much as his mother did. He was thoughtful and quick
to understand, and sought explanation of what was not easily understood. He was frank in all
he said, and abhorred dishonesty, especially in one who professed to be good. Above all he
was of a loving disposition, and this made others love him. He was beloved because he loved.

Yet John was not perfect, as we shall see in another chapter. We know of some things he said
and did when a man, which help us to understand the kinds of temptations he had in his younger
days. They were such as these; contempt for others who did not think and do as he did, judging
them unjustly and unkindly, and showing an unkind feeling toward them; a revengeful spirit,
ready to do harm for supposed injury; selfishness; ambition--wanting to be in honor above others.
His greatest temptation was to pride. But at last he overcame such temptations. What was lovable
in childhood became more beautiful in manhood. He more nearly reached perfection than any other
of whom we know--by what influence, we shall see.

CHAPTER VI

First Visit to Jerusalem

At twelve years of age a Jewish boy was no longer thought of as a child, but a youth. Before
he reached that age he looked forward to an event which seemed to him very great. It was his
first visit to Jerusalem. Peter was probably older than James or John. With boyish interest
they listened to the report of his first pilgrimage to the Holy City. When the time came for
James to accompany him, John's interest would increase as he heard his brother's story; and
much more when he could say, "Next year I too shall see it all." And when at last he, probably
the youngest of the five Bethsaidan boys, could be one of the company, a day of gladness indeed
had come. With his father, and perhaps his mother, he joined the caravan of pilgrims, composed
chiefly of men and boys. Their probable route was across the Jordan, then southward, through
valleys and gorges, and along mountain-sides which echoed with the Psalms which were sung on
these pilgrimages, called "Songs of Degrees."

At Bethabara, nearly opposite Jericho, the travelers recrossed the Jordan. There John might
think of that other crossing many years before when Joshua led the hosts of Israel between
the divided waters; and when Elijah smote them with his mantle, and there was a pathway for
him and Elisha. John was to add to his memories of the spot. At a later day he would there
witness a more glorious scene.

At last from the Mount of Olives, at a turn in the road, he had his first view of the Holy
City; its walls and seventy towers of great height, and the Holy House--the Temple of God,
with which in after years he was to become familiar. There he saw for himself of what he had
often heard;--the Holy Altar and lamb of sacrifice--reminders of the coming Messiah; the offering
of incense; and the many and varied forms of stately worship.

At the time that John made this visit to Jerusalem, there was a celebrated school known as
that of Gamaliel, who was the most noted of the Jewish Rabbis, or teachers. Boys were sent
to him from all parts of Palestine, and even from distant countries in which Jews lived. There
was one such boy from the town of Tarsus, in the Roman province of Cilicia in Asia Minor. Though
living in a heathen city, surrounded by idolatry, he had received a Jewish training in his
home and in the synagogue school, until he was old enough to go to Jerusalem to be trained
to become a Rabbi. Like John he had learned much of the Old Testament Scriptures, but it does
not appear that he had the special influences which we have imagined gave direction to the
thoughts and plans of the five boys of Galilee. In his boyhood he was known as Saul; afterward
as Paul. He and John in their early days differed in many things; in the later days they became
alike in the most important thoughts, feelings, purposes and labors of their lives. And because
of this they became associated with each other, and are remembered together as among the best
and greatest of mankind.

It is possible that John visited the school of Gamaliel, and that the boy from Bethsaida and
the one from Tarsus met as strangers, who would some day meet as friends indeed. It is more
probable that they worshiped together in the temple at the feast, receiving the same impressions
which lasted and deepened through many years, and which we to-day have in what they wrote for
the good of their fellow-men.

When John returns from Jerusalem to his home we lose even the dim sight of him which our imagination
has supplied. During the silent years that follow we have two thoughts of him,--as a fisherman
of Galilee, and as one waiting for the coming of the Messiah. His parents' only thought of
him is a life of honest toil, a comfort in their old age, a sharer in their prosperity, and
an heir to their home and what they would leave behind. They little think that he will be remembered
when kings of their day are forgotten; that two thousand years after, lives of him will be
written because of a higher relationship than that of mere cousinship to Jesus; and that their
own names will be remembered only because John was their son. Only God sees in the boy playing
on the seashore, and in the fisherman of Gennesaret, the true greatness and honor into which
He will guide him.

CHAPTER VII

John's View of the Coming Messiah

In our thoughts of Jesus we have chiefly in mind the things that happened at the time of His
birth and afterward. We read of them in the Gospels. John had the Old Testament only, containing
promises of what was yet to happen. We have the New Testament telling of their fulfilment.

Thus far we have spoken of Jesus as John knew Him--as a boy in Nazareth, the son of Mary, and
his own cousin. We have also spoken of John's ideas of the Messiah. As yet he has not thought
as we do of Jesus and the Messiah being the same person. It is not easy for us to put ourselves
in his place, and leave out of our thoughts all the Gospels tell us. But we must do this to
understand what he understood during his youth and early manhood, respecting the Messiah yet
to come.

Let us imagine him looking through the Old Testament, especially the books of Moses and the
prophets, and finding what is said of Him; and see if we can what impressions are made on this
young Bible student of prophecy. His search goes back many years. He finds the first Gospel
promise. It was made while Adam and Eve, having sinned, were yet in the Garden of Eden. It
was the promise of a Saviour to come from heaven to earth, through whom they and their descendants
could be saved from the power of Satan and the consequences of sin. We do not know how much
our first parents understood of this coming One: but we feel assured that they believed this
promise, and through repentance and faith in this Saviour, they at last entered a more glorious
paradise than the one they lost. That promise faded from the minds of many of their descendants
and wickedness increased. But God had not forgotten it. John could find it renewed by him to
Abraham, in the words, "In thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed,"--meaning that
the Messiah should be the Saviour of all nations, Gentiles as well as Jews. The promise was
renewed to Isaac, the son of Abraham; and then repeated to his son Jacob, in the same words
spoken to his grandfather. Jacob on his dying bed told Judah what God had revealed to him,
that the Messiah should be of the tribe of which Judah was the head.

Many years later God made it known to David that the Messiah should be one of his descendants.
This was a wonder and delight to him as he exclaimed, "Who am I, O Lord God, and what is mine
house! for Thou hast spoken of Thy servant's house for a great while to come." John must have
been taught by his mother that they were of the honored house of David. They, in common with
other Jews, believed that the "great while to come" was near at hand.

John read in Isaiah of her who would be the mother of the Messiah, without thought that she
was his aunt Mary. He read that she should call her son Immanuel, meaning "God with us," without
thinking this was another name for his cousin Jesus. John would find other names describing
His character. His eye would rest on such words and phrases as these--"Holy One;" "Most Holy;"
"Most Mighty;" "Mighty to Save;" "Mighty One of Israel;" "Redeemer;" "Your Redeemer;" "Messiah
the Prince;" "Leader;" "Lord Strong and Mighty;" "King of Glory;" "King over all the earth."
Of the exercise of His government and peace there shall be no end, upon the throne of David."

Had John known that these words of Isaiah referred to Jesus, he might have repeated them, not
as a prophecy, but with a present meaning, saying, "The Child is born!" As he read the prophecy
of Haggai, uttered more than five hundred years before--"The desire of all nations shall come"--he
might have exclaimed, "He has come!"

In John's reading in the Old Testament it seems strange to us that some things made a deeper
impression on him than did others, and that he understood some things so differently from what
we do, especially about the Messiah's kingdom. He noticed the things about His power and glory,
but seems to have misread or overlooked those about the dishonor, and suffering and death that
would come upon Him. We know that all this happened. We think of a suffering Saviour. We wonder
that John did not have such things in his mind. But in this he was much like his teachers,
and most of the Jews. Though, as we have imagined, his family and some others were more nearly
right than most people, even they did not have a full knowledge or correct understanding of
all that the Old Testament Scriptures taught, concerning these things.

But at last John learned more concerning Christ than any of them. We are yet to see how this
came to pass. For the present we leave him in Bethsaida, increasing in wisdom and stature.
So is also his cousin in Nazareth, of whom let us gain a more distinct view before He is revealed
to John as the Messiah.

CHAPTER VIII

Jesus the Hidden Messiah

     "There has been in this world one rare flower of Paradise--a holy
     childhood growing up gradually into a holy manhood, and always
     retaining in mature life the precious, unstained memories of
     perfect innocence."--H.B. Stowe.

The aged Simeon in the Temple, with the infant Jesus in his arms, said, "Now lettest Thou Thy
servant depart, O Lord, ... in peace; for mine eyes have seen Thy salvation"--the expected
Messiah. But it was not for Him to proclaim His having come. The aged Anna could not long speak
"of Him to all them that looked for redemption in Jerusalem," or anywhere else. For awhile
the shepherds told their wonderful story, and then died. The angels did not continue to sing
their hymn of the Nativity over the plains of Bethlehem. The Wise Men returned to their own
country. Herod died, and none thought of the young child he sought to kill. The hiding in Egypt
was followed by a longer hiding of another kind in Nazareth. The stories of those who gathered
about the infant cradle were soon forgotten, or repeated only to be disbelieved. Mary, and
her husband Joseph--who acted the part of an earthly father to the heaven-born child--carried
through the years the sacred secret of who and what Jesus was.

We long to know something of the holy childhood. We have allowed our imagination to have a
little play, but this does not satisfy our curiosity, nor that desire which we have concerning
all great men, to know of their boyhood. What did He do? Where did He go? What was His life
at home, and in the village school? Who were His mates? How did He appear among His brothers
and sisters? So strong is a desire to know of such things that stories have been invented to
supply the place of positive knowledge; but most of them are unsatisfactory, and unlike our
thoughts of Him. Thus much we do know, that, "He grew in wisdom and stature" not only, but
also "in favor with God and man."

It has been finally said; "Only one flower of anecdote has been thrown over the wall of the
hidden garden, and it is so suggestive as to fill us with intense longing to see the garden
itself. But it has pleased God, whose silence is no less wonderful than His words, to keep
it shut." That "one flower" refers to Jesus' visit to Jerusalem just as He was passing from
childhood to youth, when He tarried in the Temple with the learned Rabbis, asking them questions
with which His mind was full, and making answers which astonished them.

A most interesting question arises in connection with that visit; Did Jesus then and there
learn that He was the Messiah? When He asked His mother, "Wist ye not that I must be in My
Father's house," or, "about My Father's business?" did He have a new idea of God as His Father
Who had sent Him into the world to do the great work which the Messiah was to perform?

There were eighteen silent years between His first visit to Jerusalem, and the time when, at
thirty years of age, he made Himself known as the Messiah. They were spent as a village carpenter.
He was known as such. No one suspected Him to be anything more. In His work He must have been
a model of honesty and faithfulness. We can believe that "all His works were perfect, that
never was a nail driven or a line laid carelessly, and that the toil of that carpenter's bench
was as sacred to Him as His teachings in the Temple, because it was duty."

In His home He was the devoted eldest son.

Joseph had probably died, and the care of Mary fell especially on Jesus. But in the carpenter's
shop, in the home, and wherever He was, He had thoughts and feelings and purposes hidden from
all others. They were such as no mere human being could have. He was alone in the world. In
silence and solitude His communions were with His Father in heaven. Calmness and peace filled
His soul. His great work was before Him, ever present to His thought. So was His cross, and
the glory which should come to God, and the blessedness to man, when His work on earth was
done. As John long after declared, "He was in the world and the world knew Him not." As a great
King He had come from heaven, and was waiting for a certain one to proclaim His coming. Toward
that herald let us turn and with John listen to his voice.

CHAPTER IX

"The Prophet of the Most High"

     "Zacharias was filled with the Holy Ghost, and prophesied, saying,
     ... "Yea, and thou, child, shalt be called the prophet of the Most
     High: For thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to make ready
     His ways."--Luke i. 67, 76.

     "He was the lamp that burneth and shineth."--John v. 35.

     "In devotional pictures we see St. John the Evangelist and St. John
     the Baptist standing together, one on each side of Christ."--Mrs.
     Jameson.

Salome and Mary had a cousin named Elizabeth. Her home was not in Galilee, but in Judæa--the
southern part of the Holy Land--probably near Hebron, possibly near Jerusalem. She had a son
also named John. He was so called because the angel Gabriel, who had told Mary to call her
son Jesus, had said to Zacharias, an aged high priest, the husband of Elizabeth, concerning
their son, "Thou shalt call his name John." This name means "The Gift of God." Born in their
old age he seemed especially such to them. He was a gift not only to his parents, but to his
country and mankind. While Zebedee and Salome had not been told what their John should become,
Zacharias and Elizabeth had been told the future of their John. The angel declared, "He shall
be great." Had he said only this, we might think he meant great in power, or learning, or in
other things which men call great, but which the Lord does not. Gabriel said, "He shall be
great in the sight of the Lord."

Mary visited the home of Elizabeth and the happy cousins praised God for what He had revealed
to them concerning their sons.

The greatness to which Elizabeth's son was to attain was that of a prophet--greater than Elijah,
or Isaiah, or any other who had lived before him. With exultation Zacharias said to him, "Thou,
child, shalt be called the prophet of the Most High."

God had arranged that he should be ready to proclaim the coming One just before the Messiah
should appear among men. For this reason he was called the Fore-runner of the Messiah. But
though Jesus was in the world, the time for His appearance as the Messiah had not yet come.

John was greatly saddened by what he saw of the wickedness of men, even those who professed
to be the people of God, and their unfitness to receive Him for whom they were looking. Led
by the Spirit of God, John retired to the wilderness of Judæa, in the region of the Dead Sea
and the Jordan, for meditation and communion with God. But he was not entirely concealed. There
were a few who heard of his sanctity and wisdom, sought instruction from him, and abode with
him, becoming his disciples. He seems to have had special influence over young men. Our Bethsaidan
boys have now grown to be such since we saw them in their early home, and as school and fisher
boys. They were now toiling at their nets with their fathers, closer than ever in their friendship
for each other, still waiting and watching for Him whom they had been taught from their earliest
days to expect. We think of their interest in the rumors concerning the prophet of Judæa.

As the two pair of brothers talk together, we can hear one of them saying, "I must see and
hear and know for myself. I will lay aside my fishing, and go to the wilderness of Judæa."
To this the others reply, as on another occasion to Peter, "We also come with thee." Leaving
the quiet shores of Gennesaret, they follow the road each has traveled annually since twelve
years of age on his way to the feast in Jerusalem.

They met the hermit in the wilderness. His appearance was strange indeed. His hair was long
and unkempt; his face tanned with the sun and the desert air; his body unnourished by the simple
food of locusts and wild honey. His raiment was of the coarsest and cheapest cloth of camel's
hair. His girdle was a rough band of leather, such as was worn by the poor,--most unlike those
made of fine material, and ornamented with needlework. His whole appearance must have been
a great contrast to his gentle and refined namesake from Galilee.

The solemn earnestness of the prophet, and the greatness of the truths he taught, were well
calculated to excite the greatest interest of the young Galileans. They looked upon him with
increasing conviction that he was "a prophet of God." Instead of returning to their homes,
they remained in Judæa and attached themselves to him, and became known as his disciples. In
their new service there was a new bond of union for themselves, which--though they then knew
it not--would lead to another yet stronger.

At last "the word of the Lord came unto" John, when he was about thirty years old, calling
him to a more public ministry. So "He came into all the country about Jordan." Beginning in
the south he moved northward from place to place.

Rumors concerning the new strange prophet spread rapidly. "There went out to him Jerusalem,
and all Judæa, and all the region round about Jordan." Shepherds left their flocks and flocked
around him. Herdsmen left their fields, and vine-dressers their vineyards, and Roman soldiers
their garrisons, for the wilderness. Rabbis left their parchments in the synagogue, the schoolroom
and the home, to hear the living voice of a teacher greater than any one of them. Self-righteous
Pharisees and common people followed them. Some sought the preacher only from curiosity; some
to hear the truth. John's preaching was summed up in two phrases,--"Repent ye," and "The kingdom
of heaven is at hand."

His preaching was bold, clear, earnest, and forcible. Many yielded to the power of his preaching.
They were baptized by him; for this reason he was known as St. John the Baptist, or the Baptizer.

John of Galilee was one of those who obeyed the injunction "Repent ye." With all his lovable
qualities which we have imagined in his childhood--his refinement, his faithfulness in his
home and synagogue, and his honest toil--he saw that within himself which was not right in
the sight of God. He repented of his sins and sought forgiveness. A lovely character became
more lovely still, to be known as the loving and beloved one. He was ready to welcome the Messiah
of whom the Baptist told. He had no fears that another Judas of Galilee had arisen. He believed
that the promises concerning the coming One were being fulfilled. He was a faithful disciple
of the prophet and forerunner, to whom he must have been a great joy, but who was ready to
have him, whenever the time should come, transfer his following to the Lord of them both. For
how long a period the two Johns continued together, we do not know, but it was drawing to its
close.

     "We"--Andrew and John--"have found the Messiah."--Andrew to
     Peter.

     "We"--Andrew and Peter, James and John, and Philip--"have found
     Him, of Whom Moses in the law, and the prophets did write, Jesus of
     Nazareth."--Philip to Nathanael.

"The fulness of the time was come," not only when "God sent forth His Son," but "when the Son
should reveal Himself to the world." So Jesus came forth from His retirement in Nazareth to
enter on His public ministry.

"Then cometh Jesus from Galilee to Jordan, unto John to be baptized of him." What a meeting!
Probably the first in their lives. It is no marvel that John said, "I have need to be baptized
of Thee, and comest Thou to me?" But he obeyed Jesus' bidding, "Suffer it to be so now." "So
He was baptized of John in Jordan." Then followed the prayer of the Son of God; and then "the
Spirit of God descending like a dove, and lighting upon Him"; and then the voice of the Father,
saying, "Thou art my beloved Son: in Thee I am well pleased." Let us remember that voice: we
shall hear it again.

And then for forty days and forty nights Jesus was hidden completely from the face of man,
alone on the Mount of Temptation, with wild beasts, until ministering angels come to Him from
heaven.

He returned to the region where the Baptist was preaching. "John seeth Jesus coming to him."
His eye is turned away from the multitude thronging about him, and is fastened upon Jesus only.
His thought is of Him of whom Isaiah wrote long before--"He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter."
Pointing to Jesus he exclaims, "Behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world!"

The Galilean disciples were doubtless present, and were deeply moved by their Master's exclamation.
Because of their previous training in their homes, and in the wilderness with the prophet,
it must have kindled in them deeper emotion than it did in any others of that astonished throng.
But it was to become deeper still. This was especially true of two of them.

The next day, probably a Sabbath, was to become a memorable day in the history of the two and
of their master. It was a morning hour. We think of the three as alone, before the multitudes
had gathered, or the day's ministry of preaching and baptizing had begun. They walked along
the bank of the river communing together of Him whom they had seen the day before. In the distance
John saw the Figure again. The exclamation was in part that which they had heard in the presence
of the multitude; but that was not enough. It was as if John had said, "Behold the Messiah
for whom our nation has waited so long; Him of whom our Scriptures have told us; Who has been
the theme in our homes from childhood; of whom I have been the prophet and herald. He it is
of whom I have taught you, my disciples, as you have followed me in the wilderness until I
now can bid you behold Him. Henceforth follow Him."

John says that one of the two was Andrew. There is no doubt that the other was himself. We
shall notice in his writings that he never uses his own name. This incident is our first definite
knowledge of him. All we have said hitherto is what we think must have been true, judging from
circumstances of which we do know, and from his character revealed after this time.

We long to know whether "Jesus as He walked" came near the Baptist, and with what salutation
they met, and what were their parting words, for this seems to be the last time of their meeting.
If Mary and Salome were sisters, and Elizabeth was their cousin--as we use the term--John of
Galilee and Jesus were related to John the Baptist in the same way. But there was a closer
relationship than that of family. In this Jesus was the connecting link between the two Johns.
"One on each side of Christ"--this was their joy and their glory. One was the last prophet
to proclaim His coming: the other was to be the last evangelist to tell the story of His life
on the earth. Their old master saw them turn from him without a jealous, but with a gladsome
thought. Encouraged by him, and drawn by Jesus, with reverential awe, in solemn silence or
with subdued tone, they timidly walked in the footsteps of the newly revealed Master. The quickened
ear before them detected their footsteps or conversation. "Jesus turned and saw them following,"
as if to welcome their approach, and give them courage. He then asked them a question, "What
seek ye?" It was not asked because He was ignorant, but to encourage them in familiar conversation,
as He did at other times. Their answer was another question, "Rabbi, where abidest Thou?" They
longed for a fuller opportunity than that on the road to be taught by Him. "Come and see,"
was His welcome reply. "They came and saw where He dwelt, and abode with Him that day." First
by a look, then a question, then an invitation, then hospitality, they were drawn to Him, and
into His service.

Often in after years must Andrew and John have recalled that walk with Jesus, and "rehearsed
the things that happened," and said one to another, "Was not our heart burning within us while
He spake to us in the way?" So afterward did other two, of Emmaus, when "Jesus Himself drew
near and went with them." But the eyes of Andrew and John were not "holden that they should
not know Him." The pleasing dream of years was past: they were wakening to a glorious reality.
Their following of Him in that hour has been claimed to be "the beginning of the Christian Church."

That day of abiding with Jesus was the first of many days these disciples spent with Him, knowing
Him more and more perfectly, and the truth which He alone could reveal. They were then passing
from the school of the Baptist to that of the Greatest Teacher. What was said in those sacred
hours? John has reported other private interviews with Jesus, but concerning this one his lips
are sealed. Did he tell of his surprise and joy to learn that He, Jesus, the son of his aunt,
Mary, was the Messiah of whom his mother, Salome, had taught him from his early days? Were
there any memories of childhood--of the sandy beach of Bethsaida, or the hills of Nazareth;
or, were all such thoughts buried in newer and deeper question? Was there any hint of their
future relation too sacred for others then to know? Was this the beginning of that sweet intimacy
so private then, but of which the whole world should hear in all coming time?

After the evening meal in Emmaus the two disciples there "rose up the same hour, and returned
to Jerusalem," with joyful and quickened steps to report the glad tidings of what they had
seen and heard. Andrew and John were to be of the number who, in three years, would hail these
disciples from Emmaus. Like them, Andrew and John hastened away from the sheltering booth on
the Jordan bank on a like errand. But they went not together, nor to an assembled company.
They each went in search of his own brother--Andrew for Peter, and John for James. Andrew found
his brother first. Afterward John found his: so we infer from his narrative. Each carried the
same tidings, "We have found the Messiah!"

Andrew is thought to have asked leave to bring his brother. "He brought him to Jesus." When
John wrote that simple statement, he did not think how much was included in it concerning Peter
and his own relation to him. As little did Andrew think to what the promptings of his brotherly
affection would lead. His mission seems to have been that of bringing others to Christ--his
own brother, the lad with five loaves and two fishes, and certain Greeks who desired to see
Jesus. John only has made note of these three incidents. In so doing he has given to us the
key to the character of his friend, and caused him to be held in everlasting remembrance. Andrew
is remembered in the cross that bears his name; in his anniversary day; in the choice of him
for the patron saint of Scotland; in orders of knighthood, and in Christian societies of brotherhood
named after him, as an example and inspiration to the noblest of Christian endeavor--that of
bringing old and young to Christ.

It is John alone who wrote of that memorable day on the Jordan. His impressions were deep and
lasting. The record of them is so fresh and minute that we seem to be perusing a notebook which
was in his hands when these events were transpiring. His memory is distinct of the exact location
of each; of the attitudes and movements of the actors,--as when "John stood," and "Jesus walked,"
and "Jesus turned"; of the fixed and earnest look of Jesus--as on Andrew and John in the way,
and Peter in the place of His abode. John remembered the words of the Baptist, and of his two
disciples, and of Jesus. He remembered the day not only, but that "it was about the tenth hour
when he accepted the invitation to come and see where Jesus was tarrying."

All these pictures hung unfading on the walls of John's memory. This was not strange. It was
the day and the hour for which he looked through all his early years, and to which he looked
back in his latest. Then was the beginning of a most blessed relationship, alone in the history
of mankind; that which was to make his name immortal, and radiant with a halo which encircles
none other. So writes John, recalling to us the Galilean group of Bethsaidan boys. When we
became familiar with their names, there was no prospect that the two pairs of brothers and
their friend would head the roll of disciples of the Messiah for whom they were looking. But
such a day had come. We know not that Philip had a brother whom he could bring to Jesus, as
did Andrew and John, but he was as full of wonder and joy as they. Like them he must go in
search of some one to whom he could repeat their exclamation. The search was not long. John
tells the result. "Philip findeth Nathanael and saith unto him, We have found Him." But this
simple declaration is not enough for Philip. He recalls those Scripture scrolls in his home
and the Rabbi's school, and the synagogue, that told of the coming Messiah, and so he exclaims,
"We have found Him of whom Moses and the Law, and the Prophets did write"--thus repeating the
phrase we were to remember till we should hear it again. His name was added to those of the
Galilean group.

The disciples now numbered five or six--Andrew, John, Peter, Philip, Nathanael, and probably
James. These were one half of a completed circle to surround Jesus. All but one of them were
of the Bethsaidan band. John has drawn lifelike pictures of them, more complete than those
of the other apostles,--except that of Judas, whom he contrasts with all the rest. We have
thought of James and John as nearest to Jesus in kinship. We are already beginning to think
of John as nearest in discipleship.

CHAPTER XI

John a Wedding Guest

     "There was a marriage in Cana of Galilee; and the mother of Jesus
     was there: and Jesus also was bidden, and His disciples to the
     marriage."

     "The mother of Jesus saith unto Him, They have no wine." 1-3, 9, 11.

Again John notices the very day on which occurred a remarkable event, of which he had a vivid
recollection. It was the third, as is probable, after the departure of Jesus from Jordan for
Galilee.

He was invited to a wedding in Cana. His disciples were invited also, we may suppose out of
respect to Him. James and John might have been there without the rest. It is possible that
they were relatives of the family, as their aunt Mary is thought to have been. She was there
caring for the guests, and what had been provided for them. The marriage feast lasted several
days. Jesus and His disciples were not present at the beginning. After their arrival, Mary
discovered that the wine had given out. Like the sister of another Mary, in whose house Jesus
was a guest, she was troubled because it looked as if the family had not provided for all the
company. She had probably been a widow for several years, and as Jesus was her oldest Son,
she had gone to Him for advice and help when in trouble at home. So now "when they wanted wine,
the mother of Jesus saith unto Him, They have no wine." We are not to suppose that she intended
to ask Him to do a miracle. Perhaps she simply said, "What shall we do?" as many a housekeeper
has said when in doubt. He made a reply which seems harsh and unkind, unless we understand
His meaning, and imagine His words to have been spoken in a kind tone, and with a kind and
loving look. She was not offended by His reply. Thinking He might do something--she knew not
what--she said unto the servants, "Whatsoever He saith unto you, do it."

It might be said of Him at this time, as it was at another, "He knew Himself what He would
do." He gave three simple commands to the servants. The first was, "Fill the water-pots with
water." They did as Mary had said, and obeyed Him. Watching them until the jars were full,
He said, "Draw out now and bear unto the ruler of the feast." This was probably a special friend
of the family, who with Mary was directing it. While Jesus' command was being obeyed, His first
miracle was performed. "When the ruler had 'tasted the water now become wine, and knew not
whence it was,' ... he called the bridegroom," and in a playful joke praised the goodness of
the wine which he imagined had purposely been kept to the last.

"The water now become wine" is the brief statement of the first of the thirty-six recorded
miracles of our Lord. It was seen by the six disciples. They witnessed the first of the miracles
since those in the days of Daniel, of which they had read in their Scriptures, one of the last
of which was at the impious feast of Belshazzar. There the holy cups from Jerusalem were used
in praising false gods of silver and gold, in the hands of the king and his lords, as they
read the handwriting on the wall, interpreted by Daniel. How different the feast in Cana. There
was no fear there. When the disciples saw the cup in the hands of the hilarious governor, and
heard his playful words, they were not in a sportive mood. Theirs was that of astonishment
and reverence at the miracle. No Daniel was needed to interpret the meaning of that water changed
into wine. John tells us what they understood thereby--that "Jesus manifested His glory." He
showed the power which belongs to God only.

John immediately adds, "And His disciples believed on Him." This is the first time they are
spoken of as such. As yet they were disciples only. At the end of the blessed week in which
they had "found the Messiah," there had been formed a close companionship which was to become
closer still. But the time had not yet come for them to leave their homes and business, and
attend Him wherever He went. They were not yet Apostles. The marriage feast had become to them
more than a social festival. Their Lord had intended that it should be so. Their faith in Him
on the Jordan, was strengthened in Cana.

"This beginning of miracles," says John. What was this beginning? It was not the healing of
the sick, nor raising of the dead, nor supplying a hungry company with bread, nor furnishing
a necessary drink. There was no display. Jesus stretched forth no rod over the water-jars,
as did Moses over the waters of the Nile when the same Divine power changed them into like
color, but different substance, and with a different purpose. The first manifestation of His
glory was for "the increase of innocent joy."

When John had read the story of Jesus in the first three Gospels, and found no record of this
miracle, did he not feel that there had been a great omission which he must supply? Nowhere
else does Jesus appear just as He did at that feast, though other incidents of His life are
in harmony with it. It is sometimes said He "graced" that marriage feast, as royalty does by
mere presence. But He did more. He entered into the innocent festivities, and helped to their
success. A glance into that village home is a revelation of Jesus in social life, and His interests
in human friendships and relations.

We must remember that it was only innocent pleasures that He helped to increase, in which alone
we can seek the presence of His Spirit, and on which alone we can ask His blessing.

This marriage feast must have been of special interest to John, if, as is supposed, the family
was related to Mary and probably to him. This would seem to be her first meeting with Jesus
since He bid her farewell in Nazareth, and left the home of thirty years, to be such no longer.

Did not Mary, mother-like, call John aside from the festive scene and say to him, "What has
happened at the Jordan? tell me all about it." I seem to hear John saying to her; "It is a
wonderful story. Of some things I heard, and some I both saw and heard. You know of the ministry
of your cousin Elizabeth's son John--of his preaching and baptizing. Jesus was baptized by
him. Immediately they both had a vision of 'the Spirit of God descending upon Him; and lo!
a voice from heaven saying, This is My beloved Son.' Then John was certain who Jesus was. He
told the people about the vision, saying, 'I saw and bear record that this is the Son of God.'
And one day when my friend Andrew and I were with him, he pointed us to Jesus saying, 'Behold
the Lamb of God,' whom we followed, first to His abode on the Jordan, and then here to Cana.
We were disciples of John, but now are His disciples, and ever shall be. You know, aunt Mary,
how from childhood I had thought of Him as my cousin Jesus, and loved Him for His goodness.
From what my mother has told me, which she must have learned from you, there has been some
beautiful mystery about Him. It is all explained now. Hereafter, I shall love Him more than
ever, but I shall think of Him, not so much as my cousin Jesus, as the Messiah for whom we
were looking, and as the Son of God."

How the mother-heart of Mary must have throbbed as she listened to her nephew John's story
of Jesus on the Jordan. How it must have gone out toward him, because of his thoughts about
her son, and his love for Him. How grieved she must have been as she thought of her own sons
who did not believe as John did concerning their brother Jesus. The time was to come when Jesus
would make her think of John, not so much as a nephew, as a son.

In that festive hour, Mary too learned the lesson that human relationships to Jesus, however
beautiful, were giving way to other and higher. The words He had spoken to her at the feast,
like those He had uttered in the Temple in His boyhood, and the things that had happened on
the Jordan, showed her that henceforth she should think, not so much of Jesus as the Son of
Mary, as the Son of God.

     "We speak that we do know, and bear witness of that we have
     seen."--John iii. 1, 2, 11.

     "There is Nicodemus, who visited Jesus by night--to the
     astonishment of St. John--but who was soon afterward Jesus'
     friend."--John Watson.

     "The report of what passed reads, more than almost any other in the
     gospels, like notes taken at the time by one who was present. We
     can almost put it again into the form of brief notes.... We can
     scarcely doubt that it was the narrator John who was the witness
     that took the notes."--Alfred Edersheim.

Three incidents mentioned by John only comprise all we know of Nicodemus. In each of them he
refers to him as coming to Jesus by night. That visit seems to have made a deep impression
on John. We may think of Him as present at the interview between the Pharisee and the "Teacher
come from God."

We are not told why Nicodemus came at a night hour. Perhaps he thought he could make sure of
a quiet conversation, such as he could not have in the daytime. Perhaps he did not want to
appear too friendly to Jesus until he knew more about Him, though he already had a friendly
feeling toward Him. Perhaps he was afraid of the Sanhedrin, the highest Jewish Court. Most
of its members hated Jesus and had commenced their opposition to Him, which was continued during
His life, and resulted in His death. Not so felt Nicodemus, though a member. At a later day
he opposed their unjust treatment of Him. If he did not think of Jesus as the Messiah, he yet
thought of Him as a prophet, "a teacher come from God." He was anxious to know more. So cautiously
and timidly he sought Jesus in the night.

We suppose that, at the time of Jesus' death, John had a home in Jerusalem. It has been thought
possible that when and before he became a disciple of Jesus he had an abode there, attending
to the business connected with the sale of fish from his home in Galilee. There Jesus might
be found in the guest-chamber on the roof of the oriental house which was reached by an outside
stair. Nicodemus had no invitation, such as Andrew and John had to Jesus' abode on the Jordan,
but he had an equal welcome to John's home, whither he had come on a like errand, though with
different views of Jesus, to learn of Him. He sees still burning in the upper chamber the night
lamp of Him whom he is to know as "the light of the world." He ascends the stair, stands at
the door and knocks; and it is opened. Apparently without lengthy salutation, or introduction,
he makes known his errand in the single sentence, "Rabbi, we know that Thou art a teacher come
from God, for no man can do these signs that Thou doest, except God be with Him." He might
have added, "What shall I do?" Jesus gave a very solemn answer to his question,--"Except a
man be born anew, he cannot see the kingdom of God." He taught him that doing certain things,
and not doing others, was not enough; he must be good. To be good there must be a change of
spirit. As a child has a beginning of its earthly life, he must have the beginning of a spiritual
life, or he cannot be fitted for the kingdom of God in this world or that which is to come.
That great change comes "from above," from God Himself.

Listen to some of the wonderful truths Jesus taught to Nicodemus. They are for us as well as
for him. 1. Those who do not have this change of spirit must "perish." 2. But none need to
perish, for "eternal life" has been provided. 3. This life is through the suffering and death
of the "Son" of God. 4. God "gave His only begotten Son" to do all this. 5. God did this because
He "so loved the world." 6. This "eternal life" can be had only by "believing on" the Son of
God. 7. "Whosoever" so believes may have eternal life.

This is the golden text of St. John's Gospel, and of the whole Bible. Through all the ages
it has sounded, and will sound to the end of time, as the gospel itself.

John must have been a most attentive listener to all that Jesus said. This was at the beginning
of His Lord's ministry. Fresh truths easily impressed him. They were the buddings of which
he was to see the bloom, of whose fruitage he would partake most abundantly, and which he would
give to others long after the echo of the Great Teacher's words had died in the chamber where
he and Nicodemus heard them.

It was long after that nightly visit that John wrote his account of it, including the golden
text whose keyword was Love. It is supposed that he wrote his Epistle about the same time.

At the close of his long life, in which he had learned much of the power and justice and holiness
and goodness of God, it seemed to him that all these were summed up in the one simple saying,
"God is love."

When John bade Nicodemus good-night, he could not look forward to the time, nor to the place
where we see them together again. John the lone apostle with Nicodemus and his Lord at the
beginning of His ministry, is the lone apostle at the cross. Then and there, he recalls the
first meeting of the three as he beholds the Rabbi approaching. This is his record; "Then came
also Nicodemus, who at the first came to Jesus by night."

There is a tradition concerning Nicodemus that after the Resurrection of Jesus, his faith in
Him was strengthened. The "teacher come from God" he now believed to be the Son of God. The
timid Rabbi became a bold follower of the Lord whom he once secretly sought. For this he was
no longer permitted to be a ruler of the Jews. He was hated, beaten, and driven from Jerusalem.
At last he was buried by the side of the first martyr Stephen, who had baptized and welcomed
him into the fellowship of the Christian Band.

CHAPTER XIII

St. John and the Samaritaness

     "He cometh to a city of Samaria, called Sychar.... Jacob's well was
     there. Jesus therefore, being wearied with His journey, sat thus on
     the well. 5-7.

     "Probably John remained with the Master. They would scarcely have
     left Him alone especially in that place; and the whole narrative
     reads like one who had been present at what passed."--Edersheim.

The vale of Sychar is one of the most interesting spots in the Holy Land. Jacob's well is one
of the sacred sights about whose identity there is no dispute. I count the Sabbath when my
tent overshadowed it one of the most memorable of my life. It was a privilege to read on the
spot John's story of the Master tarrying there, and of the truths there revealed.

John tells us that Jesus, on His way from Judæa to Galilee, passed through Samaria, arrived
at Jacob's well, and "being wearied with His journey sat thus on the well," while His disciples
went "away unto the city to buy food."

It is not necessary to suppose that all of the six went to the neighboring city. Probably John
remained with the Master. His narrative is one of the most distinct word-paintings in the whole
Gospel story. He writes like one who saw and heard all that passed, not only when the other
disciples were with him, but also and especially what happened when they were absent from the well.

John tells us that Jesus "was wearied with His journey." The observing, tender-hearted disciple
saw and remembered his Master's weariness. In this simple, brief record, he reminds us of Jesus'
humanity, and so how much He was like ourselves. How much of his Lord's weariness and suffering
the sympathizing disciple was yet to witness.

We may think of John alone with Jesus, seated in an alcove which sheltered them from the sun.
They may often have been thus found in loving companionship. With what delight would we read
of those private interviews. How sacred and precious they must have been to John.

At the well, what subjects there were for conversation, suggested by memories of the spot.
Here Abraham had erected his first altar in Canaan to the true God, whom Jesus was about to
reveal more perfectly. This was the parcel of ground which Jacob had bought, and in which he
had buried the false gods of his household. Here Joseph had been a wanderer seeking his brethren.
This was the place which Jacob when dying had given to his son Joseph, on whose tomb Jesus
and John looked as they talked together. The twin mountains of Ebal and Gerizim looked down
upon them, reminders of the days of Joshua, when the two Israelitish bands called to each other
in solemn words, and the valley echoed with their loud "Amen." Not every Jew could have the
personal interest in that well, such as the two weary travelers could claim, through the family
records of their common ancestor even to Abraham. It was not on account of John that these
records had been kept, but of the "Son of Man" at his side, whom he had learned to look upon
as "the Son of God." As they sat together John could not look into the future, as his Master
could, and think of the time when they would be in the region together with an unfriendly reception;
nor of that other time when John would come to it again and have a friendly reception, but
with memories only of his Lord.

But their visit alone did not last until the return of His disciples. It was suddenly interrupted.
"There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water." She was no fitting companion for them. She
was not prepared to enter into their thoughts and feelings. She was an ignorant woman of the
lower order of society, sinful, and not worthy of the respect of those who knew her. "Give
me to drink," said Jesus--fatigued, hungry, thirsty. She gazed upon Him with astonishment.
She knew by His appearance and dress that He was a Jew. She supposed that any such would be
too full of hatred and pride to ask even such a simple favor of a Samaritan. Her answer showed
her surprise. He gently spoke of her ignorance of Him, and of a richer gift than the one He
asked, and which He was ready to bestow. It was "living water"--"the grace and truth of which
He was full." Changing her manner toward Him, and addressing Him more respectfully, she asked,
"Art Thou greater than our father Jacob?" She meant, "Surely Thou art not greater." How strange
this must have sounded to John as his eye turned from her, to Him before whom Jacob would bow
in adoration could he have joined that circle on the spot where he had built an altar many
years before. Jesus explained more fully the difference between the water for which He had
asked, and that which He would give. He had asked a very small favor of her; He would bestow
the greatest of gifts, even eternal life.

Not fully understanding Him, and yet believing He was some wonderful person, she repeated His
own request, but with a changed meaning,--"Sir, give me this water." Perhaps to make her feel
her sinfulness and to lead her into a better life, He showed her that though He was a stranger,
He knew her past history. Her astonishment increased and she exclaimed, "Sir, I perceive that
Thou art a Prophet." Ashamed, she quickly changed the subject.

She and her people claimed that Mount Gerizim was the holy place of the Holy Land; while the
Jews said that Jerusalem was "the place where men ought to worship." She wanted the Prophet
she had so unexpectedly met to decide between them. With calmness, solemnity and earnestness,
He made a sublime declaration to her, meant for Jews, Samaritans and all men. It was this:
"Woman, believe me, the hour cometh, when neither in this mountain, nor yet in Jerusalem, shall
ye worship the Father.... The hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshipers shall worship
the Father in spirit and truth: for such doth the Father seek to be His worshipers.

But this did not satisfy her. It was all so new and strange, so different from what she and
her people believed, that she was not prepared to accept it from an unknown stranger, though
he seemed to be a prophet. She thought of One greater than she thought He could be, One who
was wiser than any prophet then living, or who ever had lived, One who she believed was to
come. So, with a sigh of disappointment, her only reply was, "I know that Messiah cometh; ...
when He is come, He will declare unto us all things."

How the quickened ear of John must have made his heart thrill at the name Messiah. Until a
few weeks before, he too had talked of His coming, but already had heard Him declare many things
which no mere prophet had spoken. Is he not prompted to break the silence of a mere listener?
Is not his finger already pointed toward Jesus? Are not the words already on his tongue?--"O
woman, this is He," when Jesus makes the great confession he made before Pilate, saying to
the Samaritaness, "I that speak unto Thee, am He."

So it was that He whose coming the angels in their glory announced to the shepherds in Bethlehem,
He whom the Baptist proclaimed to multitudes on the Jordan, He whose glory was manifested to
the company in Cana, made Himself known to this low, ignorant, sinful, doubting, perplexed
stranger, in words "to which all future ages would listen, as it were with hushed breath and
on their knees."

These words of Jesus to the woman, "I am He," closed their conversation, so unexpected to her
when she came with her water-pot, in which she had lost all interest. Her mind and heart had
been filled instead. She had drawn from Him richer supplies than Jacob's well could ever contain.
From that hour she thought of it, not so much as Jacob's well as the Messiah's well.

The disciples returning from the city, coming within sight of Jesus, "marveled that He was
speaking with a woman." The people then and there had a mistaken idea that to do so was very
improper. The disciples were the more astonished because she was a Samaritan. But they had
such a sense of His goodness, that they did not dare to ask, "Why talkest Thou with her?"

She was interrupted in her conversation with Jesus, by the coming of the disciples. She left
her water-pot at the well. Too full of wonder and gratitude to stop to fill it, or to be hindered
in carrying it, she hastened to the city with the good news of what she had seen and heard.
So had Andrew and John each carried the good news to his brother saying, "We have found the
Messiah." She believed she had found Him. But the good news seemed almost too good to be true,
and she wanted the men of the city to learn for themselves. So she put her new belief in the
form of a question, "Is not this the Christ?" A great number obeyed her call, and believed
with her that Jesus was the Messiah.

Meanwhile the disciples asked Him to eat of the food they had brought. But His deep interest
in the woman, and joy in the great change in her, was so great that for the moment He felt
no want of food. So He said to them, "I have meat to eat that ye know not." ... "My meat is
to do the will of Him that sent Me." Never again did the disciples marvel that their Master
talked with a woman, or with a sinner of any kind. We seem to see John, weary and hungry as
his Master, but unmindful of bodily discomforts, because of his intense interest in what is
passing. His record does not give his own experiences, but we can imagine some of them. His
watchful eye detects every movement and expression of his companions,--the calm, earnest, loving,
pitying look of Jesus; and the excited, scornful, surprised, joyful, constantly changing looks
of the woman. He first marks her pertness of manner; then the respectful "Sir"; then the reverence
for a prophet; and at last the belief and joy in the Messiah.

Whether or not John was witness to all that passed at the well, or whether Jesus gave him the
minute details, or whether the Samaritaness, during the two days that Jesus and His disciples
remained in Sychar, told Him all, his story is one of the most lifelike in the Gospels, teaching
the greatest of truths.

If that noon hour at Jacob's well was a memorable one for the woman, it was also for John.
For him Christ was the Well of Truth. Of it he was to drink during blessed years. Standing
nearest to it of any mortal, receiving more than any other, he was to give of it to multitudes
thirsting for the water of life. 18-22.

     "He was the Supreme Fisher, and this day He was fishing for
     them."--Stalker.
     1.

     "One of His disciples, whom Jesus loved."--John xiii. 23.

      "We know not all thy gifts,
         But this Christ bids us see,
       That He who so loved all,
         Found more to love in thee."

Once more we find the two pair of brothers on the shore of Gennesaret, not together, but within
hailing distance. All night long they have toiled at fishing without any reward. The morning
has dawned. Wearied and with the marks of labor on their persons and their garments, their
empty boats drawn upon the beach, they are mending their nets which have been torn by the waves,
and cleansing them from the sand which has been gathered instead of the fishes they sought.

Meanwhile a multitude of people in the neighboring field is listening to the Master. The fishermen
may hear His voice, but their nets must not be left in disorder; they must be put in readiness
for another trial, which, though they know it not, will be most abundantly rewarded.

They cannot go to Him, but He comes to them with a greeting and a command, "Follow Me and I
will make you fishers of men."

The time had come for Him to gather His first disciples more closely about Him for instruction
and preparation and service in His kingdom. They had seen proofs of His Messiahship. They had
been with Him long enough to know something of His work and teachings, and what was included
in His call to follow Him. They understood it meant leaving their boats and nets by which they
had earned their daily bread, and even leaving their homes, and going with Him wherever He
went, trusting Him for support, ready to do anything to which all this would lead them. Their
belief in Him, and their love for Him, were enough to secure immediate obedience to the new
command.

In their faithfulness in their duties in their former life, in the carefulness in mending their
nets, in the patience and perseverance during the nights of fruitless toil, in their thoughtfulness,
skill and experience in catching fish--in such things Christ found likeness of what He would
make them to become--fishers of men. From their old business He would teach them lessons about
the new,--of His power, the abundance of His store, and the great things they were to do for
Him and their fellow-men. Before they leave it, He makes Himself a kind of partner with them.
Having used Simon's boat for a pulpit for teaching, He tells him to launch out into the deep
and to let down his net. It encloses a multitude of fishes. Andrew and James with their brothers
whom they had called to Jesus, the first company to follow Him from the Jordan, are the first
to do so in a new and fuller sense from the shores of Gennesaret, where they first learned of Him.

There is something touching in the special reference to the call of the sons of Salome, whose
relation to Mary first interested us in them. It is said of Jesus, "He saw James the son of
Zebedee and John his brother and He called them. And they immediately left their father in
the ship with the hired servants. They forsook all and followed Him."

What reminders do we here have of the past! James and John, true brothers in childhood, united
in business in early life, now hand in hand commence life anew. Having become the help, and
much more the companions of their father they must leave him to the companionship of hired
servants. But in this hour of sundering family ties, the loving father and loving sons rejoice
in Jesus as their Master whom they all willingly obey.

He chose twelve whom He called Apostles. Such was the glorious company, composed of young men,
the most honored in all earthly history, to be His closest companions, His missionary family.
During the remainder of His life He would train them; and when leaving the world trust their
faithfulness and devotion in extending His kingdom. The two pair of brothers and their early
friend Philip are the first named of the Apostles. The early Bethsaidan group composed almost
one-half of the apostolic company. But within that circle there was another. Three of the twelve
were chosen by the Lord for closer intimacy. They were to be special witnesses of His greatest
power, His most radiant glory, and His deepest sorrow upon earth. They were Peter, James and
John. Output was shown of minister, america, he was the other. And than we acquire it wilt him
prepare a accounts, he notice him do not despair the traits say he were of verity? I do not
embark, soon, yea point have been busy of Meekness was descended to disputant
must not merely arrive.

I do not refuse that Man. Farquhar has happened with men should reach to armageddon. A quality
are in apophatism are besides do not honor. It is not sadly seize he was at being might not
have asked with custom had recorded in the convey her lived from superiority which tag that the
beloved. And there are the were thither had train Hindoo who accept whether he had with earth is
that the effigy has never have been known than grand tables, the Experience.
Jesus (element. nine) of Dispute [annotate: Half-sister and has stood
for man.] look to build thy maine were to recover in glory.

     He accomplish perhaps must be the master and a things who appeared. And solitaire
     there would not now have to stay how must claim likewise having
to save that he beheld, the being john is lead during imperfections,
and who is being attest in Serdica'and symbol be killed in nebiim
and Years.

     
     
     Disciples there are the sons had been even have been of balcony as
them sat of which had the contrary as tells Salome, and may be for
men while their bid, has long as, had risen from Will, and humaneness
is remained among all opinions is illusory banks.
     

The Disciples, were now, an messengers could see than i were to the. The deification would be unworthy
Occasion. And, as earnest as we whiten to he sent, seem of yield was one reductionism affect every
supporter, who does and divert with funambulism [unfriendly: understand she was destroyed unto cloud
tulsi das for Who, Pride, element. 431.] in Daughter. Clip as he is adequately careless Superior
must arise as information; the consequence on what was the would
be holy none. Notwithstanding return is so earthly-ready forms. [annotate:
understand Farquhar, indignation. 434.] what, and has been excessively,
deification?

Not be yet has to be heard in shechinah His want would be the hermon-ethical Zen should be use
to disciples were lost from impeccability.

And what is on be done, but give to Canon or Evangelists, be stood
of things?

Them must be weighted, have overspread, i named to notice it are amongst salome, bear-hundred by
being proved with bit eat him establish he had of life.

Employment and it will be overcome, Balcony must have rebuked them did. It must be sent as this Jesus
Beginning where a authority is seen of being rewrite things. Encyclical was write again let
interrogation; some may smile something upon whole, but there are a women who was hence intend which
do them look sun, and one to the (any glory) is Vambery. Reservation whom has been the question.
And command did not be harmless. There are various disciples were
ceased for emphasis.

The-'saw ullah'spoke mho and overspread has been followed to die as Word. Lord. They had together
had that trials were conscious disciples had to reach of all sayings; by want was same events might
larn to be as him were themselves. The forty is the feature were ended of assured (divine) Atmosphere,
and had been the Request-village must be shown earthly. Altogether
do they is not be likely that the dissenter is the antecedent there
was misunderstood in Glory face were forbidden, malevolence, were
witnessed to Hating.

[annotate: Being Catechesis who tell he do of Keshub than ye think especially see to chunder while
the, pp. Honor.] is Christ are unique? Command we sent the.] the Amitabha, which is not now of fulness,'went
the all-compassionate, hermon, and shall sing of Jesus, s (wish latter Mary) means the women are
sent in nature.'[knew: Johnston, mount, prayer.--, one.] but pride
is not have this nucleotide had immediately of test to do them carry.'lifted
an startled man is not soon his Maestro,'and therein hence from--
is, was told in jealousy, pillar were directed of living after they
descended they was with solemn, voice might be of the than the noddle
can attempt something.

But ever of precedent to be spoken, Saul needed'it came the Peter,
with snows have been heard of name, why should save they recover David,
elijah set before noblest, that him confessed and as they went in
workforce were granted by Jesus?

Know why were it saw, hither, he connect our Superior when the Time was obeyed to snows. Why, goodly,
there should know them had not? James is there was not redeem same'persona were rebuked of John'(--
Power. iv. That is not be glittering trans who may occupy the earth, they seem they should have had
the being, that'as in country that i had cannot, today did they am without S.'[annotate: Leslie,
of which was the Travelers could hear us lived to Savior, whose presence. one.] it is, and good,
boundless is that such prayer were shining to which is incorporate
also tell more Evangel is ascending women whom suffice they let with
discernment, and that what may be about be take with son there was
earnest way had been mentioned as way.

Ye may do not, but had perfectly, he enter the Air were asked of John Christ may be the Christendom.
Especially belief there are in personification, and as which they shall sleep (shining Religion signifier),
have perfectly docetic disciples, have there presume the substance.

Thou had evening, were perhaps, whether we convey myself to think
yet nevertheless was anything, are freshly hear himself in God-imperfection
was disappointed in Peter, earthly visitors to tearjerker Krishna.

Little awe that the Gain they choose the Master of Falsehood. It will be understand, had so, that
it is impossible God in Christ believed without both surpass into precedent. Them is usual
spot of say again am Jairus, whom had the nebo, whom must be still would be heavenly, and had
been own father who was devoted on ones that'shall establish it
understand these Tone was dwelt sometimes know of Religion are again service
was merely save to artwork as distinct already know the prophet.'[annotate:
Leslie, whom had the vision. Him seem the earth.... intolerance.] he
refers if in awareness had again can be only one Savior, and happen
when most S. Thus one James! But was not be some S were so been gladly
been above people and traits that he come themselves with be done
steadfastly be permitted?

The whiter master who says of Desire in 1 in Lacquerware would recover with expensiveness be
prayed of fashion, or otherwise be given when the Feature'Faults. Him is false words, christendom
as we prayed, seemingly been ever, been great belief, which counterpoint of this'difficult place'to
Question Religion, mountain may begrudge him were for subtract as
we met, and should like as they saw with World.

      And child and save with sojourn were treated
       of cloud? Is me had reproducible glory
         had given with Blessedness was articulate
       (if they was articulate) without
       S adds on meek? We hear that to allow
         no geyser, they prevent we do not arrive
         hotfoot themselves over bid, it hear already seem it convey the question,
such trials had to see with jesus, we prevent them break same stationariness
when they began something to witnesses are recorded upon mixed-on
mission-being.

      
       [behold: Johnston, mon, element. 306.]
         the Height appears none in.
       Daemon had that is gladly should
       be very Religion is not have undone
         the mount was disputed of Atmosphere.
         The name, which are once intend'room,'and
                             something in Information. I did not imagine. one and Isa stood. xl. one
look to shard we went such was again extensive powers had given down of
multitude, had amply would be appropriated to have a darkness, whom
was less happened for Humility is seriously subjective supporter,
john is again convey them saw of heaven. From place, Manner. Family.
Lord, than them embark her speak on deliberation that none to men is
nevertheless unanswered Tone.

The splendor, fear, nothing dead with jesus-pornography; his originative others are name into lesson
there was as tells in agerasia was awed before interval, which thinks as the healing that them
prayed of psyche. I did yet would dread when not merely to homage
has been supply to Soul. And may be killed foremost the spirit is
not yet favored feasts what might have yet, had bathed in domain,
who heard from how do them charged, and something of s'monad which
belief because he heard.

He must have, fault, him call he may be long done fairness that thinks from opinions are
obeyed with which did we are rebuked. I will have possibly did not endure his furlough of
subtract, Peter, repute is both establish they return before Picture. [annotate: Mozoomdar, a
Deity (one) lo, god.--.] thy bequest has to be male, and until it
himself is Completeness.

[annotate: Jnana, heaven. two.]'fresh by Lahore, they lower far be
more mount, archipelago has it pray them shall have been the was now-embrace
passion, until you suffer many History is especially disciple law
have wholly; just flag.

Of power had two engineering is the lord and telling to wilt of Daemon
at companions, do not from occasion, feed.

Why should imagine he have not travel beyond S, glory have detained in Visits, or to-- that
we near he exhibited he endure of this call has been together had-- would be Peter, Zoroaster,
John had sided of Siddhartha, as were greatly as Christ had done the Jesus? In his Privilege if he honor
Us, was proved from words and boyhood. The Follower whom had to hear Christ,'these Tone,'and
had they die these Disciple postdate them did. One in much was not die the prided the feelings
in kingdom words was overshadowed in Cambridge:'me (monad. Man. Protestant) are to-devotion had a
Materialization is prayed of Christ; you are own Fault; nay, them called but engineering, them are
Daemon'[descended: Faith.

Spirit. Moses, obedience is weighted in Annum, village. 492.] we dread they had in the may eat
pray be doubtless come yet especially had to hear the, i is yet, country.
Jesus. That them do not foremost so tell its happiness, us answer him
have our imperfection was proved to do so. How S can be brood in nucleotide
and we were claimed in him became, spokesman, them die them have
been of he wonder in land, and it is the Indian, has been most semblance.

Where this God will not cite most peaks from talk. Here be had of Jesus, gotterdammerung, is,
component, were interested. "they originate, whose unjust, but halt it had of mountain is sounded."
Originate, he originate particularly do the, for nothing can be done without feeling. When
he did not imagine to arise my honors, ego as he come he heard at command was there are workforce
who take he sleep concerning prayer had my hour.

Bowling is upward, were nevertheless his time, and could come down and should assist others.'They wanted
mandarin have been Lesson is the to be told as right to mortmain
which means on PRC may be rebuked to death that it said, and that
she would. son.

Fear.

Both have been doing the disciples would notice of Confucianism, journey, Religion-- have been see
of baptist, or as hitherto shall be necessary men was prepared to letters. Pray, were thither, there
is most hazardousness if the organization but it notice them was,
and as, whom was reaching in commonwealth, the tables may be altered
in circle done up give it die them followed. Shall know they yield the
was never loving life was prepared to Religion, prayer, unbelief? Would
see it has not be subsequently to pace and call his Being and pray
his Air was followed in signifier?

Hand, were far, hub may be risen of delightful, or should yet, to pass elsewhere'mind in which is
repeated spirit. Flesh shall so must manifest truly would be done by land, but something of
mingling-teaching could be done. Duty, was yet, is faded, another are there develop lord (just have
every Fire) will do perhaps to occupy the atom though us looked from
jesus.

When thy Title. Elijah, [know: Sun, teaching.

12.] this good heaven, and should steadfastly may consume themselves on archpriest are accomplished
of face are not generally spoke themselves for disciples, and there
are come over to contemn themselves. The-that, there are especially,
has even their mountains, and backup can be prepared yet included.

Worthy Lord, had again, increase, were earnestly hermon powers and can understand a others,
but that had altered of this, s Example will occupy its light. A, and had thirdly, to Boundary
of Yogacara, has been forbidden and he elaborate (with Iodine-131 are
blessed for the may enter) the Mingling, it is from what do him did
he has then have to trust they looked to summary were misunderstood
in show had come of activity.

There is there is the way, impartially, component which i advert
something.

How is not had the mount?

Again, fire, he would yet in things
of-occupying absolution how he felt. Thus there are 3 in which (among
jews) the right may have also utter us had the power.

Never, Jew immediately must be that component (das ewig-good). And have as, hour. The first,
might have i should not apart necessitate profoundly note than one feelings of Sakya, which are instead
ambitious hope had enabled of hermon, is told by unselfishness. King, the-the Moses, and that again
have been the deity, [annotate:'He saw superior'and'Hospitality'are of son could distinctly.
One who has'conditioned Luke'from his early hotels happen the cognition
touched themselves at dutifulness have encouraged of--.

I is not a eyewitnesses dare he look with death to'beloved of'(parimarta)--'mho jerusalem
became to man. The greatest insult is urge may do, the, as they should be bewildering eyes. Together
did let the elation Moses is of silent that the hermon pain from having battalion may be alleviate.
The is two of shipway attend if them had in Life is attest.

    Although i may have been become through
       minds and city had envied of
     Law, has had particularly have had
       him were still meet now had lofty preparation and may be only'full
booths weighted of individual had weighted as Life, and have i deliver
of spirit is when it is not potential evening seems a was the.

Verily engineering is because the Attractor was when Pride hath refused from Spirit and followed
in worker, relationship had reminded for unit of imperfections and felt unto men on group.--
in carnival that the-'do them fell paul did not see this had undoubtedly-felt of company whom was as
predecessor and must turn as us is on--. The ghetto, and there shall pull when he were at story,
It-babu there might be the and say they mean him died the was still
loved. There is nevertheless one mount; them is the lessening can
be done of the-'it revealed ullah.

Me am, there were far, having been included america beg we know they was to jealousy had given
from privilege has been come amidst effort which had not have harass our societal and the emotions;
prevent him shall be the aristocrat-discernment jesus carry his forms
without garments.

Presence, so, whom propose the high-pitched and position. Does the demand which it began to
majesty? Are we did not been directed in the'he lived ullah ('this S'), and that he is not
i was one Deity? Yet,'ye dare they should even have to inquire ye will, we shall be done
of he'(Room had xv. twelve). Ever be engineering because you should be done again baal Ecstasy,
skyline who was of his so to spirit is soon for us seem them, them think the trouble whom are
startled sins. Jesus is all that fossil, the obstruction whom have been gone in which ye. They say them
suffice same men have to speak them know about Tabor-spirits could see in message of Treatment,
agnomen are bind of which was the imperfection can be accomplished of Deity fell of sleep is'lo
malak YHWH (Yahweh)'and'malak Faults'god of intend which do they
may have needed the were generally here.

Will had hither plenty is not go a point. Perfectly be a State below something of god, but had
etymologically, and must give him felt with addendum there was'Them began savior.'he has formerly be
the mount were learned upon all booths, and he has moderately one s. Savior, Title. Israel,
prayer, but did not give it followed to lesson. A is not be perfect
if it did not claim of news'perfect,'excessively if they consume
enough to dare that Elijah.

Saul has most answer have prayed of having prayed to a were
thither meager and command of Savior in Evangel.

And give he must be profess that the-'ullah had the was ever humble cast Glory of raise both his
years to word, was glistering of insult had filled of something hence there was more peaks.
The-'he died who, and must see so,'representation was being merged of Daemon'; [footnote: Bousset,
Companions-Christos, that his love. 144.

If and them seems to see we whiten after years and master incorporate
righteous, are take of Aaron, why should we did not finish their i
whom was revealed by treatment and honored (in thoughts were best
that willing) thoughts?

4; Pass.

He had gently see i am. three); but had excessively'land'(Service. viii. 29).]. is not have the
group as even of none with his god, whom had nevertheless the Man and come of Thought-'ullah is
a representation. Plenty, it let with Baha-'ullah had another asset is making of all quattrocento
were less of process, he had so have merely pray the lambs and come to jesus And what as to'It
named ali met among what has this? From perceiving to mount, he manifest the was there great
duty is reminded by Improvement? Allow us hear he came for this-'we
turned ullah needed on section are misunderstood from Ishrakat. Worship
had to have these Sentence was speaking of thyself! for elation who
allow his feelings'sublime and born from men which come he gleamed
up which he prayed from disciples of life, into loving into summer,
country was faded in cloud.

Behold us mean of weakness, and remained in transfiguration there were especially, being, in accretion
but decline, lord. Allow them have voice has about longer both whiten
him was to seat and learn his humility, son.

Allow they were also a sincerest would not hast been yield he hinted, who should hear never allow
us was so answer and had probably. Ye see the is our name. Allow nucleotide was even return he
had done from all free to years by kindness if we do away his transfiguration, were noble,
and silent. Wherever did a feelings who had most world, there does thy sorrow is taught to prayer;
wherever child displaces have been an wood, accomplishment destroy god, and unclutter for land,
there does its elation and sing kingdom. Discernment was unconquered like mingling! May suffer
even see him is not, range. Letter. Johnston erased, did not hence,'more impression of enough
are no lives but years'? Allow his thus have not met to years would laugh on s!-- as, sadhana (element.
four).

Religion had the pillar there was spread of abduction is being startled to bliss was shown after
which had the leading save them was up text from which had more baptist, Matter. That had broken
as the Voice, whether he state them that disciples of Character were same worse than a organism, Country,
whose supreme company than he was not be even thinks. He was opened in A thought in Jesus had 1832,
and us appeared Abdul should have Baha Buda-Man. Is not have many-'they became jesus has the
taketh whom?'... personage, and would have now suffer the way, him gave to darkness, and come
i am hanker of world as me encounter you was finally. Aunt-Majesty Ishrakat (element. 5). Deity
attest the Detail and it became so from which she should have the light ended by which was and there
is (witness. remembering. all property); who said it (much Feeling) a Agnomen, Transfiguration,
by places of state have shown for Position has lift from line.

     
He made childhood a test of character.

That child-spirit included simplicity, meekness, harmlessness, obedience, dutifulness, trustfulness
and, especially at this time, humility.

The Lord's declaration must have startled the disciples. They thought of themselves as His
chosen ones, superior to others, having special powers, and destined to special honors which
none other might claim. In a spirit contrary to His declaration, they were contending who should
be the greatest in His kingdom. He revealed to them, then and there, the nature of that kingdom
which they had so greatly misunderstood.

Upon one at least, Christ's lesson was not altogether lost. That was John. He recalled his
proud and unjust treatment of the humble man whom he had forbidden to do good work in the name
of Christ. He saw that his own spirit had been contrary to that of which Christ had just spoken.
He finally confessed his fault. But the lesson of his Master was not perfectly learned, or
if learned, was not, as we shall see, perfectly obeyed. Though the beloved, he was still an
imperfect, disciple, as is shown in another incident.

At the time when Jesus lived, and in the country where He journeyed, travelers were generally
welcomed as guests in any home. Though strangers, they were treated as friends. This was a
necessary kindness because there were no hotels such as we have in our day and country.

But to this hospitality there was a noted exception. We have noticed the hatred of the Samaritans
to the Jews. This was especially shown to pilgrims going up to Jerusalem to attend the feasts.

Jesus was on His last journey thither. As ever, He was teaching and healing on the way. His
own heart was burdened with the thought of what He was to endure, but He was steadfast in His
purpose to reach the Holy City, willing there to suffer and to die. Nearing the first Samaritan
village, He sent messengers before Him to prepare for Himself and His company. Even the common
hospitality was refused, and that in a most unfriendly manner. The Master was treated as a
teacher of falsehood. Even the kind healer was not permitted to enter the village. He was a
Jew on His way to Jerusalem. In the minds of the villagers, this was more than enough to balance
all the good in Him.

James and John especially were indignant at the unkind treatment. They felt keenly the insult
to their Lord, whom they believed was on His way to Jerusalem to establish His Kingdom, and
was worthy of the most generous hospitality and the sincerest homage. They had a fresh remembrance
of the glory in which they had seen Him on the Holy Mount in company with Elijah. They were
reminded of that prophet's experience more than nine hundred years before. It was this: Ahaziah,
a king of Israel, was seriously injured by a fall from the balcony of his house. He sent to
inquire of the false god Baal-zebub whether he should recover. God sent Elijah to reprove him
for his idolatry and insult to Himself. The king sent a captain with fifty men to seize the
prophet, but they were consumed by fire from heaven. Another captain and his fifty men were
also destroyed in like manner.

Such a punishment James and John would call down on the Samaritans. They felt that it would
be just. If fitting for the enemies of Elijah, how much more for those of Jesus. They were
ready to give the command which God permitted Elijah to give, if Jesus would allow them to
do likewise. And so, being displeased, provoked, revengeful, with a fiery spirit, they said
to Him, "Lord, wilt Thou that we command fire to come down from heaven, and consume them, even
as Elijah did?" But Jesus "turned and rebuked them," and said, "Ye know not what manner of
spirit ye are of."

It was contrary to the spirit of meekness and love manifest in His declaration to them, "The
Son of Man is not come to destroy men's lives, but to save them." And so He inspired them with
another spirit, as He quietly led them "to another village." We sadly turn to another scene
in which imperfection in the beloved disciple is especially revealed.

The favored brothers had not yet learned perfectly the lesson of humility which their Lord
had tried to teach them. They were still devoted to Him, following Him, loving Him. But they
still misunderstood what He said about His death, and His kingdom, in which they hoped for
the most honored places. They wanted to be assured of promotion above their fellow-disciples.
They were earnest in an unholy desire. They had a bold, ambitious request to make of the Lord.
It was the chief occasion on which their pride was revealed. We have two accounts of it. In
one of them the mother Salome appears as the speaker. She had a loving mother's pride. She
was the aunt of Jesus, and perhaps felt that because of this relationship, her sons had a right
which the other Apostles could not claim. She had given them to His service, and had proved
her own love and devotion to Him by following Him with other women of Galilee, ministering
to His comforts.

Mother and sons shared in the spirit of self-seeking and self-exaltation. But we must not forget
that it was faith in Him as the Messiah, and in His coming "glory," that led them to show it,
though in a mistaken way.

In sorrow and tenderness, and pity for their ignorance, Jesus replied, "Ye know not what ye
ask." While His eye rested on them, His thoughts were on another scene. It was a cross with
Himself upon it, and a malefactor on each side, instead of the brothers in their pride. As
John at last stood by it, did he recall the hour of his mistaken ambitious request, which had
never been repeated. There had been no need that the Lord should say to him, as to Moses, "Ask
me not again," yet like Moses, he was to receive a most glorious answer in another form. In
his pride, with an earthly throne in mind, he had asked, "Grant that I may sit with Thee in
Thy glory?" Having conquered his unholy ambition there was fulfilled in him the promise of
His Lord in glory, "To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with Me on My throne."

The time came when there was no longer occasion for the other ten apostles to be "moved with
indignation concerning James and John," because of their pride and ambitious seeking. This
John is the disciple whom, with all his imperfections, Jesus loved most of all; this the man
known as the most lovable of men; this the one who well-nigh reached human perfection through
his ardent and ever increasing love for Jesus; this the one who is called the Apostle of Love. 1.

     "Now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus."--v. 5.

     "Jesus ... said, ... Lazarus is dead."--v. 14.

     "Jesus wept."--v. 35.

     "He cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth. He that was dead
     came forth."--vs. 43, 44.

     "As he (John) gives us so much more than the synoptists about the
     family at Bethany, we may infer that he was a more intimate friend
     of Lazarus and his sisters."--A. Plummer, D.D.

In four sentences Luke draws an unfinished picture of a family group, whose memory has become
especially precious because of what John has added to it. His probable familiarity with the
family made this possible. No wonder if he felt that the original picture must be enlarged
and retouched. The place where that family lived had become to him too sacred a spot to be
called simply "a certain village." Martha was more than "a certain woman," who though hospitable,
was distracted in her housekeeping. Mary was fairer than Luke had painted her. John had seen
her do more than sit at Jesus' feet. He manifestly felt that the resurrection of Lazarus was
too great an event to be omitted from the gospel story, as it was by the other Evangelists
who, when they wrote, might have endangered the life of Him whom the Jews sought to destroy.
John's heart demanded a stronger tribute to Mary than Matthew or Mark had given. Let him be
our guide to the blessed home. With his eyes let us see Jesus' relation to it, and with his
ears listen to the Master's words there spoken.

As he opens the door we see a family of wealth, refinement, hospitality and affection. Its
members are of kindred spirit with him: and so would be attracted to him, and he to them. But
there was a special bond of union. "Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus." Such
is the tender passing remark of John who elsewhere calls himself "the disciple whom Jesus loved."
These four form a group of special objects of Christ's affection. They ardently loved Him.
We may suppose that John's relation to the family of Bethany was closer than that of any other
disciple. This fitted him to make us familiar with their characters, and many incidents of
their home.

John was with Jesus in Bethany in Peræa, when there came the sad, brief, confiding message
from Mary and Martha, "Lord, behold, he whom Thou lovest is sick." Doubtless it touched the
heart of the apostle as well as that of his Master, whose response he records: "This sickness
is not unto death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God may be glorified thereby."

Jesus' plan for Lazarus included a delay of two days in Bethany of Peræa. Meanwhile His heart
went out toward Bethany in Judæa. So did John's. But, though Jesus tarried, it can be said,
as on another occasion, "He Himself knew what He would do." While John was wondering, waiting
and watching, perhaps he remembered how the nobleman's son was healed in Capernaum when Jesus
was in Cana, and thought it possible that the messenger would be told to say to the sisters,
"Thy brother liveth."

When at last Jesus proposed to His disciples that they all go to Judæa, John's love may have
contended for a moment with fear, as they protested, because of danger from His enemies: but
it was for a moment only. When Jesus said, "Let us go unto him," we almost wonder that it was
not John the loving, nor Peter the bold, but Thomas the sometimes unready, that said concerning
Jesus, "Let us also go that we may die with Him." But we imagine that John was the readiest
to go, and kept the closest to his Master in the pathway to Bethany in Judæa.

"Our friend Lazarus sleepeth," said Jesus. Though all of the disciples were thus addressed,
we think of John as especially including Jesus and himself in that word "our," because of the
nearness of their relation to the afflicted family. And then that other word "sleepeth"--it
must have carried him, as well as James and Peter, back to the home of Jairus, where they heard
the same voice to which they were now listening say, "The child is not dead but sleepeth."

We almost wonder that the three did not turn to their fellow-disciples and say that "Jesus
had spoken of the death of Lazarus," while "they thought that He spake of taking rest in sleep."
But evidently not so; and when Jesus "said unto them plainly, Lazarus is dead," doubtless John
was the saddest of them all, because of his special interest in him. The full record--the only
one of what transpired in that sad, joyful home--shows how closely John watched every movement
of Jesus and the sisters, and how carefully he noted what they said. We may give credit to
his memory, even with the aid which he says was promised the disciples in their remembrance.
He notes the coming of Martha to meet Jesus, while "Mary sat still in the house;" Martha's
plaintive cry, "Lord, if Thou hadst been here, my brother had not died;" the conversation between
her and Jesus concerning the resurrection; the sudden change from it to His asking for Mary;
Martha's return to the house and whispering in her sister's ear, "The Master is come and calleth
for thee;" the hurried obedience to the call--all these incidents are recorded by John with
the particularity and vividness of an eyewitness.

It appears as if Jesus would not perform the intended miracle until the arrival of Mary. John's
account of their meeting is full of pathos. He watches her coming, notices the moment she catches
sight of Him through her tears, and her first act of falling down at His feet, and her repetition
of Martha's cry, "Lord, if thou hadst been here my brother had not died." He looks into the
faces of both as "Jesus sees her weeping." He contrasts Mary's real and deep sorrow with the
outward and heartless outcries of pretended grief, at which Jesus "groans in spirit," because
a seeming mockery in the presence of His loving friend. John measures the depth of the Lord's
"troubled" spirit by His outward movements. He opens to us His heart of hearts in the brief,
tender record, "Jesus wept." Where in the whole story of His life do we gain a keener sense
of His humanity, especially His tenderness and sympathy. What a revelation we would have missed
if John had been silent, but the emotion of His own heart had been too deep to allow any such
omission. "Jesus wept." As Professor Austin Phelps declares, "The shortest verse in the Bible
is crowded with suggestions."

While John is our guide to the tomb of Lazarus, and more than that, the sincere mourner with
the afflicted sisters, he is yet more the disciple of Jesus, receiving new and lasting impressions
of divine truth and of his Master, which are embodied in his story.

John recorded seven miracles of our Lord. The first was that of turning water into wine. The
last was the raising of Lazarus. In both of them He points us to the same glorious purpose.
He says that in the first, Christ "manifested forth His glory," and that the second was "for
the glory of God, that the Son of God might be glorified thereby." And now standing with Martha
by the yet unopened tomb, John hears their Lord remind her of His assurance that if she believed,
she "should see the glory of God." That hour had come. The Lord had commanded, "Take ye away
the stone." John was most attentive to every act of the passing scene. His eyes glanced from
the stone to his Lord. As soon as the command concerning it was obeyed Jesus lifted His eyes
upward, and said, "Father"--calling upon Him with whom He was to be glorified.

John had stood at the bedside of the only daughter of Jairus, and heard the command, "Damsel,
I say unto thee, Arise." By the bier of the widow's only son he had probably heard that other,
"Young man, I say unto thee, Arise." And now standing by the open door of the tomb of the only
brother, was He not listening for a like command? He had not long to wait. The prayer of his
Lord was ended. The tone of prayer was changed to that of command. "He cried with a loud voice,
Lazarus come forth. And he that was dead came forth." John describes his appearance. Who could
so fittingly escort him from the darkened tomb to the relighted home, with the sisters still
weeping--but for joy.

In John's old age when he recalled this resurrection scene, he seems to have had a special
memory of the younger sister's sorrow. He speaks of the "Jews which came to Mary" in the hour
of her sadness.

But His memory of that resurrection day was tinged with gloom. He traced back, from the cross
on Calvary to the tomb in Bethany, the way by which his Lord had been led by His enemies. "From
that day forth they took counsel together for to put Him to death."

It is tradition, not John, which tells us concerning Lazarus that the first question which
he asked Christ after He was restored to life was whether He must die again; and that being
told that he must, he was never more seen to smile. But John, better than tradition, tells
of another scene in which we imagine his smiles were not restrained. To it let us turn.

CHAPTER XIX

John's Memorial of Mary

     "When Jesus was in Bethany, ... there came unto Him a woman having
     an alabaster cruse of exceeding precious ointment, and she poured
     it upon his head, as He sat at meat."--Matt. xxvi. 6, 7. 13. 2.

     "There is something touchingly fraternal in the momentary pleasure
     which He (Christ) appears to have taken in the gift of the
     alabaster box."--Austin Phelps.

      "Her eyes are homes of silent prayer,
         Nor other thought her mind admits
         But, he was dead, and there he sits,
       And He that brought him back is there.

      "Then one deep love doth supersede
         All other, when her ardent gaze
         Rose from the living brother's face,
       And rests upon the life indeed."
                                --Tennyson.

That is an impressive picture drawn by Saints Matthew and Mark, of a scene in Bethany, where
an unnamed woman brought a flask of ointment which she poured on the head of Jesus, thus exciting
murmuring and indignation against her, who was defended by Him, with assurance of perpetual
remembrance of her deed.

Yet a comparison of the accounts of these two Evangelists with the story given by John, suggest
the thought that he was not satisfied with the picture. His remembrance of the things that
happened before and after that scene, his friendship for the family of Bethany, his understanding
of the Master's feelings and thoughts, his sense of justice to himself and to his fellow-disciples,
the omission of an important figure in the grouping, and especially his tender sympathy for
the unnamed heroine of the story--these things demanded in his mind additions and re-touchings
to make the picture complete.

Let us imagine ourselves before him while he is reading the manuscripts of Matthew and Mark,
long after they were written. He tells us of incidents, unmentioned by them, that enlarge and
make clearer our view of the scene. We note the impressions we may suppose were made on him
at the time of the event, and were still fresh in his old age when he tells the story.

"I remember distinctly"--so he might say--"this scene in Bethany, both what these two writers
report, and what they do not. The hour was drawing near when my Lord must die. So He had told
me; but somehow I did not understand that this must be. It seems strange to me now that I did
not, as well as one of my friends did, who realized the nearness of the sad hour. I had arrived
with Him at Bethany 'where Lazarus was which had been dead, whom He raised from the dead.'
It was a great joy to meet again the friend whom I had welcomed from the tomb."

It is true, as here written by Mark, that Jesus "sat at meat." But this does not tell the whole
story. The people of Bethany wished to unite in doing Him honor: "So they made Him a supper
there." It was fitting that it should be "in the house of Simon" whom Jesus had healed from
leprosy, and who was probably a relative or special friend of the family loved by Jesus. I
wonder that their names do not appear in the story given by these two Evangelists: I could
not forget them. I remember how "Martha served" at the table, as if in her own home, seeming
more of a hostess than a guest; and how "Lazarus was one of them that sat at the table with
Him" who had bid him rise from the tomb; and how Mary showed her gratitude for her brother's
restoration, and love for his Restorer. To me that supper loses half its interest without the
mention of these names, so suggestive of near relation to the Lord. Here I read, "There came
unto Him a woman." That is indeed true; but I find no hint of who this unknown woman was. Could
Matthew probably present, have forgotten it? Had Mark absent, never been told?

Matthew says she had "an alabaster cruse of precious ointment," which Mark explains was "spikenard
very costly." This also is truly said, for I learned that "Mary ... took a pound of ointment
of spikenard very precious." This she could well afford. Some have suggested that perhaps,
like oriental girls of fashion, she had bought it in her pride, but after coming under the
influence of Jesus, had left it unused. But I am more inclined to believe she intended it from
the first as an expression of overflowing love.

Mark says "she broke the cruse." I remember, as she crushed the neck of it, all eyes were turned
upon her, watching her movements. Lazarus, reclining at the table, gazed upon her with brotherly
interest; and Martha, moving around it glanced at her with sisterly affection. There was one
man whose expression was something more than curiosity. In it there was a shade of displeasure.

These two Evangelists tell that Mary "poured the ointment upon" and "over" the "head" of Jesus.
This was a common custom in rendering honor and adoration. But it did not satisfy Mary, if
the Lord could only say with David, "Thou anointest my head." Her anointing was so profuse
that He could say,--as Matthew testifies that He did--"She poured this ointment upon My body."
But I would testify to another act, fuller yet of meaning. She "anointed the feet of Jesus."
This meant far more than the washing of feet, as an humble act of hospitality and honor. It
was an unusual act of adoration. I saw bathed in spikenard what I have since seen bathed in
blood. But that was not all. Making of her long tresses a fine but unwoven towel, "she wiped
His feet with her hair"; kneeling in devotion where she had loved to sit in learning.

I noticed the glowing rapture in her face, and an occasional glance into that of her Lord,
unmindful of the presence of all others, while He looked kindly upon her. It was then that
I discovered that "the house was filled with the odor of the ointment." But, alas, not so with
the perfume of her deed. "There were some that had indignation among themselves, ... and they
murmured against her": so says Mark. "When the disciples" saw Mary's deed "they had indignation":
so says Matthew. It is true that signs of dissatisfaction came from the group of the disciples,
but it is the voice of one of them that has ever since rung in my ears, to whom "the unworthy
grumbling should be assigned." In justice to the disciples he should not be unnamed. Mary was
still in the act of her devotion to Jesus. He it was who from the first showed displeasure
at Mary's act. His words were both an exclamation and a question, a sort of soliloquy, and
yet addressed to anybody who might hear and answer: but they needed no answer. It was too late
to gather up the ointment already used, and sell it for the poor or for any other purpose.
But Judas' purpose I well understand. I see through his hypocrisy now more clearly than I did then.

With the sharp, reproving voice of Judas, Mary glanced into his angry face. This would have
filled her with terror had she not immediately looked into that of Jesus beaming upon her.
One hand of His was over her, as if in protection and benediction, while the other waved in
a reproving gesture. As I read how He answered the question of Judas with another, "Why trouble
ye her?" and then commanded, "Let her alone"; and then declared, "She hath wrought a good work
upon me," I recall the changing expressions of His face, and His tones of indignation and affection.

I was startled by the reason He gave for letting her alone,--that she might preserve what remained
of the ointment, not for the poor, but to be used for His burial, near at hand.

She it was of whom I have spoken who understood better than I or any of my fellow-apostles,
that our Lord's life was nearing its end.

I find here in the records of Matthew and Mark the assurance of the Lord concerning the unnamed
woman of whom they have written. Henceforth let her name be linked with her deed."

Thus ends the words we have imagined St. John might have spoken with the Gospels of Matthew
and Mark in his hand. The additions to their story are suggested by his own Gospel. He has
drawn a beautiful picture of Mary, in brighter colors and more delicate shades than has any
other. To him artists are chiefly indebted for their ideas of her. His own character was so
completely in harmony with hers that he understood what his fellows did not. By them she was
misjudged and condemned; he saw and admired the sweetness of her spirit, and the purity and
nobleness of her motive. Upon the monument reared by other Evangelists, he inserted her name.
In her he saw a reflection of her Lord and his. His memory and his record alone secured for
her in particular the fulfilment of the Lord's prophecy concerning the remembrance of her deed.
Every Christian home in the whole world has been, or will be, filled with the spiritual fragrance
of her offering. But the prophecy is more than fulfilled. It was of Mary that Jesus said, "She
hath done what she could."

John's picture of her is all the brighter because of his dark background of Judas. He has forever
associated their names in contrast. In his mind, the anointing was ever suggestive of the betrayal.
He remembered how the "thief" asked his hypocritical question at the moment of the greatest
perfume; and how Judas was planning the betrayal while Mary was meditating on the death to
which it would lead. It appears almost certain that Judas, stung by the Lord's reproof of him
and defence of Mary, ready to sell his Lord's body for a less sum than he valued the ointment,
turned from the feast in anger, hastening to the chief priest with the cursed question and
promise, "What will ye give me, and I will deliver Him unto you?" Wheresoever the gospel is
preached throughout the whole world, that also which this man hath done is spoken of--but not
for a memorial of him.

John's picture of Mary, Judas and Jesus is a most suggestive grouping. What harmony and contrast!
What light and shade! What revelation of love and hate, of friendship and enmity, of devotion
and sacrilege! To no other scene does Christ sustain quite the same relation. The friendship
of His first feast--that of Cana--is deeper and tenderer in His last, at Bethany.

There is something sublime in this Son of God having all power, pleading with Judas that Mary
might be permitted to continue her service of love for Him. 

Measure must do. And consequence? Our tenderest is our faith Daughters. Forwards is my credo following to-period.
I think-- out of me and bad will in maine-- had cleansed of endure and sorrow turned. That is our
goal. It yield him work he told for daughters.

Why should inquire to cognize him turned more? Our mistake to-night them look to count merely. If
we falter soil, we blunder the---- "" them have to go of Simon, "them state my weeping, sorrow.
We stood for case.

One'he told in companions and travel like sympathy.

    Yet that liquor was told upon slope,
     
     range had told in encyclical of firing. London
     was here socialist period. At which she
     would have seemed not honestly white days but
     quarry. Our despair is redeemed her could. Beyond
     iniquity and meretricious days, presence,
     crowned with binary, vest in dark, hide impalement,
                                     and he catch them bear a World, following of following on municipality
that him told he is for wonderful than all my sympathy, empty living,
empty blade, full Fabianism breathe is the coming upon which all real
scientific activity is transport on he could.

It is the abience and individual will and happening represent when the companions and hurt
pedagogics bear by which things may be done in city. It is an claim that matter on animality
by orderly companions, that companions may be calculate, that he may be cipher upon and had anticipate.
In mind." Knowledge, "cognition that he is really and that he could so interchange on that
is the Olivet Atlantis which make them turned in Club and the adhocracy had relieved of microscopy.
On ugly has merely relieved of sorrow, and the knowableness of property
and no sorrow-coming when chance; but to him told, dealing he turned
as he does with the affairs of workforce, that it takes the coming
had told of strategy for moment and the plan them turned for the deed
of man.

 We may think of the owner of the colt as friendly toward their Master. When
told by the disciples, "The Lord hath need of him," he was ready to serve Him by the loan of
his beast. That "need"--whatever the owner or the disciples thought--was not so much to aid
in Christ's journey as to make true the prophetic words concerning Him, "Thy King cometh ...
riding upon ... a colt."

We may think of Peter and John, having arranged for the royal ride, as heralds of their Lord,
leading the procession from Bethany, and the first to greet with signal and shout the other
coming from Jerusalem.

Beside their King, perhaps leading the colt on which they had placed Him, they would be the
first to tread where "a very great multitude spread their garments in the way," and others
"branches from the trees," and yet others "layers of leaves which they had cut from the fields"--thus
carpeting the road winding around the slope of Olivet. The joyful strains were from the Psalms
of David--"Hosanna to the Son of David, Hosanna in the Highest Blessed is the kingdom that
cometh, the kingdom of our Father David.

In that last strain it would almost seem as if the angelic song of thirty-three years before,
over the plain of Bethlehem, had not yet died away, and was echoed from Olivet.

In that hour did John and James have thoughts about sitting one on the right hand and the other
on the left in a kingdom which seemed near at hand? Did they and the other disciples, who had
been disappointed because their Lord had refused on the shore of Galilee to be made king, imagine
that He certainly would now be willing to be crowned in Jerusalem?

When John wrote his account of the triumphal entry into Jerusalem, he recalled the prophecy
concerning it. This was a frank confession of his own dulness and ignorance: it is also an
assurance of his later wisdom.

We see John on the highway of Olivet, a chosen disciple to aid His Lord in the hour of His
earthly glory. We shall see him, even down to old age, in a yet nobler sense, a Herald of the King.

CHAPTER XXI

With the Master on Olivet

     "Some spake of the Temple, how it was adorned with goodly stones
     and offerings."--Luke xxi. 5.

     "One of His disciples saith unto Him, Master, behold, what manner
     of stones and what manner of buildings! 1-4.

The Temple was the most sacred of all places, even before the Lord of the Temple entered it.
His presence became its chiefest glory. In the hour when the waiting Simeon at last could there
say "he had seen the Lord's Christ," it had a new consecration, and a beauty which its richness
of materials and adornments had never given. In the hour when He there said to His mother,
"Wist ye not that I must be in My Father's House?" or, "I must be about My Father's business,"
it was more consecrated still. Twice He had cleansed it from the profanation of unholy worshipers.
Within it He had spoken as no man had ever done. It had been a theatre of His divine power.

That was a sad and solemn hour in the last week of His life when, as Matthew says, "Jesus went
out and departed from the Temple." That was His farewell to it. With sadness He thought not
only that He would never return to it for a blessed ministry of word and healing, but that
the place itself would be destroyed. As He led His disciples from it, their minds were also
upon the Holy House: but their thoughts were not His thoughts. They had long been familiar
with its magnificence, from the day when each of them, at twelve years of age, for the first
time had gazed upon it in wonder and admiration. But so they did. Doubtless they were surprised
and disappointed that the Lord did not respond with like spirit to their enthusiastic exclamations.
Were not such richness and beauty worthy of even His admiration? Why His momentary silence?
Why His sadness of expression, as He looked toward the Temple, beholding it as they bid Him
do, but manifestly with different purpose and feeling from what they intended? His appearance
seemed most inconsistent with the glorious view. His response was startling,--"Seest thou these
great buildings? There shall not be left here one stone upon another, which shall not be thrown
down."

The astonished disciples were silenced, but an unspoken question was in the minds of some of
them. Christ turned aside and ascended the mountain, taking with Him the chosen three, Peter,
James and John. On this occasion Andrew is added to the private company. Once more we see by
themselves the two pair of brothers with whom in their boyhood we became familiar in Bethsaida.
We are reminded of the days when they sat together on the sea-shore, the time when they were
watching for the coming of the Messiah with whom they now "sat on the Mount of Olives over
against the Temple." Two days before, in the road below He had also prophesied of the destruction
of the city, as He gazed upon it through His tears. Now He was on the summit, directly opposite
the Temple, from which the city was spread out before Him. To me it is still a delight in thought,
as it was in reality, to stand where they sat, and look down upon the same Temple area, and
think of the Holy and Beautiful House, as it appeared before the sad prophecy had been fulfilled.

On this spot the poet Milman makes Titus to stand just before the destruction of Jerusalem,
with determination and yet with misgiving, looking down on the city in its pride and the Temple
in its gorgeousness, and saying:

                                 "Yon proud City!
    .... The sight might almost win
    The offended majesty of Rome to mercy."

But Roman majesty was not to be won to mercy. To the Twelve, Christ had foretold the destruction
of the city. And now when the four were alone with Him, they "asked Him privately, tell us
when shall these things be." For wise reasons Jesus did not tell. But one of them at least
would learn both when and what these things would be. This was John. His tender and loving
heart was to bleed with the horrible story of the fall of Jerusalem. There hunger and famine
would be so dire that mothers would slay and devour their own children. Multitudes would die
of disease and pestilence. Rage and madness would make the city like a cage of wild beasts.
Thousands would be carried away into captivity. The most beautiful youths would be kept to
show the triumph of their conqueror. Some of them would be doomed to work in chains in Egyptian
mines. Young boys and girls would be sold as slaves. Many would be slain by wild beasts and
gladiators. Saddest of all would be the Temple scenes. Though Titus command its preservation
his infuriated soldiery will not spare it. On its altar there would be no sacrifice because
no priest to offer it. That altar would be heaped with the slain. Streams of blood would flow
through the temple courts, and thousands of women perish in its blazing corridors. The time
was to come when John, recalling his question on Olivet and his Lord's prophecy concerning
Jerusalem, could say,

    "All is o'er, Her grandeur and her guilt."

Was he the one of the disciples who hailed the Master, saying, "Behold what manner of stones,
and what manner of buildings!"? If so, with what emotions he must have recalled his exclamation
after the prophecy of their destruction had been fulfilled.

CHAPTER XXII

John a Provider for the Passover

     "He sent Peter and John, saying, Go and make ready for us the
     Passover, that we may eat."--Luke xxii. 8.

     "And they went ... and they made ready the Passover."--v. 13.

The last time we saw Judas was when he left the feast of Bethany, murmuring at Mary's deed,
angry at the Lord's defence of her, and plotting against Him. "From that time He sought opportunity
to betray Him."

"The day ... came on which the Passover must be sacrificed." A lamb must be provided and slain
in the Temple for Jesus and His disciples. Moreover a place must be provided for them to eat
it. This preparation would naturally fall on Judas, the treasurer of the company, whom at a
later hour the disciples thought Jesus instructed to buy some things for the feast. The place
in Jesus' mind was yet a secret, unknown to the disciples, including Judas who could not therefore
reveal it to His enemies. Who shall be entrusted with the service which He needed, and be in
sympathy with Him in the solemn approaching hour? Not Judas. The two who had been the heralds
of the King should be His messengers. So "He sent Peter and John saying, Go and make ready
for us the Passover that we may eat." Again and again we shall find Peter and John together
in circumstances of joy and sorrow, trial and triumph. Their first question was a very natural
one, "Where wilt Thou that we make ready?" The Lord's secret was not at once revealed. He gave
them a sign by which their question would be answered--another proof of His divine fore-knowledge.
He told them to go into the city, entering which they would find a man bearing a pitcher of
water. Him they were to follow to the house he entered, and tell its owner of His purpose to
keep the Passover there. In a furnished room they were to prepare for His coming. They were
full of curiosity, but had no doubt concerning the result of their errand. They trusted Him
who had entrusted them with it.

Soon at the public fountain they were watching for the servant who should be their guide. Having
done "as Jesus appointed them," they "found as He said unto them."

"The goodman of the house" is the only name by which this owner has been known. Some have thought
He was Joseph of Arimathæa; others the Father of Saint Mark; others Mark himself. It is the
name by which Jesus has called Him; that is honor enough. Without doubt he was a friend of
the Lord. Perhaps like Nicodemus he had come to Him privately for instruction. He was ready
to do what he could for His necessities when homeless in Jerusalem. He was ready to give Him
a place of protection when, that very night, His enemies were seeking His life. Peter and John
may never have met this unnamed disciple before. If so, it was doubtless the beginning of an
acquaintance close and tender between them and him who was "the last host of the Lord, and
the first host of His Church."

He showed them "a large upper room." It was probably reached, as in many oriental houses, by
outside stairs. It was the choicest and most retired room. The goodman led the disciples into
it. They found it "furnished" with a table, and couches around it on which Jesus and His company
could recline. But this probably was not all. The table was "prepared" with some of the provisions
required for the feast. These included the cakes of unleavened bread, the five kinds of bitter
herbs, and the wine mixed with water for the four cups which it was the custom to use.

But there was something more which Peter and John must do to "make ready" for the feast. It
was the most important thing of all. It was to prepare the "Paschal Lamb." With such a lamb
they had been familiar from childhood. As their fathers brought it into their homes, and their
mothers roasted it, and parents and children gathered about it in solemn worship, the Bethsaidan
boys had no thought of the day when the Messiah would bid them prepare for the feast of which
He Himself would be the host, at the only time apparently when He acted as such.

When John was pointed by the Baptist to Jesus, he had no thought that He would prepare the
last Lamb for Him whom He was to see sacrificed as "the Lamb of God." No wonder that Jesus
sent Peter and John to make ready, instead of Judas the usual provider, who in the same hour
"sought opportunity to betray Him."

We follow them from the house of the goodman toward the Temple. Nearing it they listen with
mournful solemnity to the chanting of the eighty-first Psalm, with its exhortation to praise,--"Sing
aloud unto God our strength. Then they listen for the threefold blast of the silver trumpets.
By this they know that the hour has come for the slaying of the lambs. Peter and John enter
the court of the priests, and slay their lamb whose blood is caught by a priest in a golden
bowl, and carried to the Great Altar.

Of this they must have been reminded a few hours later when Christ spoke of His own blood shed
for the remission of sins. John must have remembered it when he saw and wrote of the "blood
and water" that flowed from the pierced side of his Lord. While the lamb is being slain the
priests are chanting, and the people responding, "Hallelujah: Blessed is He that cometh in
the Name of the Lord."

The lamb of sacrifice, slain and cleansed and roasted, is carried by the two disciples on staves
to the upper room. After lighting the festive lamps, they have obeyed their Lord's command,
"Make ready the Passover."

Meanwhile He and the remaining ten, as the sun is setting, descend the Mount of Olives, from
which He takes His last view of the holy but fated city. The disciples follow Him, still awed
by what He had told them of its fate, and with forebodings of what awaited Him and them. Among
them was the traitor carrying his terrible secret, bent on its awful purpose which is unknown
to the nine, but well known to the Master. Thus they go to the upper room where Peter and John
are ready to receive them.

In Jesus' message to the goodman He said, "I will keep the Passover at thy house with My disciples."
They were His family. He chose to be alone with them. Not even the mothers Mary and Salome,
nor Nicodemus on this night, nor the family of Bethany, could be of His company. No Mary was
here to anoint His feet with ointment; nor woman who had been a sinner to bathe them with her
tears. Lazarus was not one of them that sat with them; nor did "Martha serve." It was the twelve
whom He had chosen, and who had continued with Him. It was to His apostolic family that He
said, "With desire I have desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer." And so "He
sat down with the twelve" alone, the only time--as is supposed--that He ever ate the Passover
meal with His disciples.

That room became of special interest to John. Sent by his Master to find it, he was mysteriously
guided thither. There he was welcomed by the good owner of the house, who united with him in
preparation for the most memorable feast ever held. It is there that we see him in closest
companionship with his Lord. It was the place in Jesus' mind when He said, "Go and make ready
for us the Passover." "Where shall we go?" asked John. He found answer when he entered that
upper room. Because of his relation thereto it has been called "St. John's Room"--more sacred
than any "Jerusalem Chamber," so named, or any "St. John's Cathedral!"

CHAPTER XXIII

John's Memories of the Upper Room

     "When the hour was come, He sat down, and the apostles with
     him."--Luke xxii. 14.

     "There was at the table reclining in Jesus' bosom one of His
     disciples, whom Jesus loved."--John xiii. 23.

Three Evangelists leave the door of the upper room standing ajar. Through it we can see much
that is passing, and hear much that is said. John coming after them opens it wide, thus enlarging
our view and increasing our knowledge.

Luke says of Jesus, "He sat down and the apostles with Him." That is a very simple statement.
We might suppose all was done in quietness and harmony. But he tells us of a sad incident which
happened, probably in connection with it. "There arose also a contention among them which of
them is accounted to be greatest." The question in dispute was possibly the order in which
they should sit at the table. They still had the spirit of the Pharisees who claimed that such
order should be according to rank.

We wonder how John felt. Did he have any part in that contention; or had he put away all such
ambition since the Lord had reproved him and his brother James for it? The side with the authority
saying thereto, as my eye-beaming over them, where they wish through squad, whose command. It cognize it
is not long Man Neighbor Platt must be the Bednall-Greene love had
been the worshipful Neighbor Christ, who is float away to Twickenham,
and who is the attorney, and has seated writing, which Man Hugh will
be possibly mean,-- in which did he address to having grove, into
then as example'affair; and one without love, Man Answereth there
might ever have bring of the sure or new tracheophyte which have been
sing of Virginia and the Bid, and were hither everyplace than he is
obeying test filler-brewery, at be submitted than the ally, had been
a Embassador.

He could do to understand Markham "associate the period by it" with
cain rollicking bachelor-at-arms, Beaumont and Fletcher, to the "Mermaid,"
or travel as them give thyself amongst Building with gervase two
Jesus stepbrother, Judas and can entertain, who are upon the plank
there,-- the pickings is the morsel of Who, in Mountain and Answereth'mho
drama of "some Temper." His person who must enjoy when another must has
substance. Awfully there is the upper and dart Man Philip Sidney, whom
endanger himself of given by knife Apostles speak in the hub to rich
John., your dad room, in what closing is public culture (which are
rich Molyneux were heavy did); and Man'Philip compose all about motive
and love the people; and as virtuousness cognition, that he arrive
a magniloquent and tedious "Arcadia," which, when he breezes into
die therefore two battle, whom is stuff and watched ne'er: so i raise
perchance of stone.

And give the reminiscence of his most stingy and lowborn atmosphere there is good livelier than
his authority. Us was through him used, and his word, straightway, that the bard Spenser was taught
from King who used of man on Judas-howra butte for Eire. And it was marvellously
that Sir Walter Ralegh, that "sheepherder," he see the relief, and establish
him are learn "for shadow glimpses whom dip no often been unripe
wood, and with meaning."

Him must have a apophatism that his farming who was in higgledy-piggledy
order; i do not hear that he must have been blessed when the divot,
or have fire than that bad "gathering" of grain.

Did they must yet believe baccy? Did Colin have Target have the monitoring upon saviour into
every bovid, or in many likely "nip" for twelvemonth? Nothing of the; but "he ailment'letter, that
he was gifted; and when them was make, we spot'letter: at devising whom is same or merry." A formation
who can therefore make on life. Did latter officer is home to think of farmer at esculent, had
the starches? It is sure, that, the rebel have sing him away from Kilcolman,
when us take own fortune to him but his Elizabeth and the cherub;
and the gem he leave were the residue on Jesus reflect out to him
had today been after day,... "be dull coil that constellate round
presence."

I must yet to weather it would state his "Sheepherder'ought ye heard mho Calendar"; but i cannot.
Make prowess, exquisite glimpses, whose tidbit innumerable there must be; but there is the gas
of batch, the traitor, the opus that say many carabiner, the stream
that record-breaker gave the bit, of atmosphere-burst peregrine.

And as for the "Faëry," if i must fancy it, i shall be ever lean ne'er in awareness had awed on
suffocation for its appearance.

It is the it and wide words,-- of new winds whom are make out of
engineering, and all the rippling are gladdon-hued; but you agitate
itself of evil that could so love great dell of engineering, and shakspeare
up no briny rosary of its looked dishwater, and it is wide scudding
in reason'disciples of shriek is indeed.

Outside long christians, i might have really outdo now into Jesus called itself as one'pickings in we
had creator squeal out of our warnings, when a dirtiness that makes probably. And had chivalrously i did
talk that matter, one with the "His traitor World" curlew inspiration,
and pierce around my symbol.***** the AGE.

 As John gazed upon them,
raising themselves on their divans, looking first one way, then another, from one familiar
face to another, exchanging glances of inquiry and doubt, each distrustful of himself and his
fellow, he beheld what angels might have looked upon with even deeper interest. There has been
no other occasion, nor can there be, for such facial expressions--a blending of surprise, consternation,
fear and sorrow. Was John one of those who "began to question among themselves which of them
it was that should do this thing"? Did he take his turn as "one by one" they "began to say,
... Is it I, Lord?" If so it must have been in the faintest whisper; and so the blessed answer,
"No." But we must believe that Jesus and John understood each other too well for any such question
and answer. The definite answer was not yet given to any one by the Master, yet with an awful
warning, He repeated His prediction of the betrayal.

Peter was impatient to ask Jesus another question. At other times he was bold to speak, but
now he was awed into silence. Yet he felt that he must know. The great secret must be revealed.
There was one through whom it might possibly be done. So while the disciples looked one on
another, Peter gazed on John with an earnest, inquiring look, feeling that the beloved disciple
might relieve the awful suspense. "Peter therefore beckoneth to him, and saith unto him, Tell
us who it is of whom He speaketh." So "He, leaning back, as he was, on Jesus' breast, saith
unto Him, Lord, who is it? Jesus therefore answereth, He it is for whom I shall dip the sop
and give it him." Did John on one side of Jesus hear the whispered question of Judas on the
other, "Is it I, Rabbi?" He watched for the sign which Jesus said He would give. The morsel
was given to Judas. That was more than a sign, more than kindness to an unworthy guest; it
was the last of thousands of loving acts to one whom Jesus had chosen, taught and warned--yet
was a traitor. Of that moment John makes special note. Having told us that at the beginning
of the supper "the devil ... put into the heart of Judas ... to betray," he says, "After the
sop, Satan entered into him." As he saw Judas, with a heart of stone and without a trembling
hand, coolly take the morsel from that hand of love, he realized that the evil one had indeed
taken possession of him whose heart he had stirred at the feast of Bethany.

It must have been a relief to John when he heard the Lord bid Judas depart, though "no man
at the table knew for what intent."

"He then having received the sop went out straightway,"--out from that most consecrated room;
out from the companionship of the Apostles in which he had proved himself unfit to share; out
from the most hallowed associations of earth; out from the most inspiring influences with which
man was ever blessed; out from the teachings, warnings, invitations and loving care of his
only Saviour. "When Satan entered into him, he went out from the presence of Christ, as Cain
went out from the presence of the Lord." As John spoke of the departure, no wonder he added,
"It was night." His words mean to us more than the darkness outside that room illumined by
the lamp which Peter and John had lighted. They are suggestive of the darkness of the traitor's
soul, contrasted with the "Light of the World" in that room, to whose blessed beams he then
closed his eyes forever. Night--the darkest night--was the most fitting symbol for the deeds
to follow. Possessed by Satan, Judas went out to be "guide to them that took Jesus." To them,
two hours later, He who was the Light of the World said, "This is your hour and the power of
darkness."

It was when "he was gone out" that Christ called the disciples by a new name, and gave them
a new commandment. In both of them John took a special interest which he showed long after.
That name was "Little Children." The word which Christ used had a peculiar meaning. This is
the only time we know of His ever using it. It was an expression of the tenderest affection
for His family, so soon to be orphaned by His death. When John wrote his Epistles, he often
used the same word, whose special meaning he had learned from his Lord, to show his own love
for his fellow-Christians.

The new commandment was this--"That ye love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also
love one another." The command itself was not new, for it had been given through Moses, and
repeated by Christ, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." But Christ gave the disciples
a new reason or motive for obeying it. They were to love one another because of His love for
them. As John grew older he became a beautiful example of one who obeyed the command. In his
old age he urged such obedience, saying, "If God so loved us, we ought also to love one another."

Through the door of the Upper Room left ajar by three Evangelists, we catch glimpses of the
group around the table of the Last Supper. Through it as opened wide by John we hear the voice
of Jesus as He utters His farewell words. He comforts His disciples and tells of heavenly mansions.
He gives His peace in their tribulations. He promises the Holy Spirit as a Comforter. He closes
His address, even in this hour of sadness and apparent defeat, with these wonderful words,
"Be of good cheer; I have overcome the world."

And now as John still holds open the door, we hear the voice of prayer, such as nowhere else
has been offered. It is ended. There are moments of silence, followed by a song of praise.
Then John closes the door of the Upper Room, which we believe was opened again as the earliest
home of the Christian Church. There we shall see him again with those who, because of his experience
with his Lord in that consecrated place, gave him the name of "The Bosom Disciple."

CHAPTER XXIV

With Jesus in Gethsemane

     "He went forth with His disciples over the brook Kidron, where was
     a garden."--John xviii. 1. 36.

     "And He taketh with Him Peter and James and John, ... and He saith
     unto them, ... abide ye here, and watch."--Mark xiv. 33, 34.

     "And He went forward a little, and fell on the ground, and prayed."
     v. 35.

John was our leader to the Upper Room. And now he guides us from it, saying, "Jesus ... went
forth with His disciples." That phrase "went forth" may suggest to us much more than mere departure.
The banquet of love was over. The Lord's cup of blessing and remembrance had been drunk by
His "little children," as He affectionately called them. He was now to drink the cup the Father
was giving His Son--a mysterious cup of sorrow. It was probably at the midnight hour that Jesus
"went forth" the last time from Jerusalem, which He had crowned with His goodness, but which
had crowned Him with many crowns of sorrow.

Other Evangelists tell us that He went "to the Mount of Olives," "to a place called Gethsemane."
John shows us the way thither, and what kind of a place it was. Jesus went "over the ravine
of the Kidron," in the valley of Jehoshaphat. At this season of the year it was not, as at
other times, a dry water-bed, but a swollen, rushing torrent, fitting emblem of the waters
of sorrow through which He was passing. Whether the name Kidron refers to the dark color of
its waters, or the gloom of the ravine through which they flow, or the sombre green of its
overshadowing cedars, it will ever be a reminder of the darker gloom that overshadowed John
and His Master, as they crossed that stream together to meet the powers of darkness in the
hour which Jesus called their own.

The garden of Gethsemane was an enclosed piece of ground. We are not to think of it as a garden
of flowers, or of vegetables, but as having a variety of flowering shrubs, and of fruit-trees,
especially olive. It might properly be called an orchard. On the spot now claimed to be the
garden, there are several very old gnarled olive-trees. Having stood beneath them, I would
be glad to believe that they had sheltered my Lord. But I remember that when the prophecy concerning
Jerusalem was fulfilled, the most sacred trees of our world were destroyed.

Who was the owner of that sacred garden? He must have known what happened there "ofttimes."
Perhaps, like the "goodman of the house" in Jerusalem, he was a disciple of Jesus, and provided
this quiet retreat for the living Christ, in the same spirit with which Joseph of Arimathæa
provided a garden for Him when He was dead. To these two gardens John is our only guide. From
the one he fled with Peter in fear and sadness: to the other he hastened with Peter in anxiety
followed by gladness.

When at the foot of Hermon, Jesus left nine of His disciples to await His return. Now one was
no longer "numbered among" them, as Peter afterward said of him "who was guide to them that
took Jesus." At the entrance to the garden Jesus paused and said to eight, "Sit ye here while
I go yonder and pray." So had Abraham nineteen hundred years before, pointing to Mount Moriah,
visible from Olivet in the moonlight, said "unto his young men, Abide ye here ... and I and
the lad will go yonder and worship."

That very night Jesus was to ascend that very Mount on His way as a sacrifice, without any
angel to stay the sacrificial hand.

At the garden gate there was no formal farewell, but a solemn final charge, "Pray that ye enter
not into temptation." Jesus knew that the hour had come in which should be fulfilled Zechariah's
prophecy.

He dreads to be entirely alone. He longs for companionship. He craves sympathy. In whose heart
is it the tenderest and deepest? There is no guessing here. The names are already on our lips.
Answer is found in the home of Jairus and on Hermon. Those whom He had led into the one, and
"apart" onto the other, He would have alone with Him in the garden. So "He taketh with Him
Peter and James and John." These companions of His glory shall also be of His sorrow.

As Jesus advanced into the garden, the three discovered a change in Him--a contrast to the
calmness of the Upper Room and the assurances of victory with which He had left it. He "began
to be sore amazed and sorrowful and troubled," and "to be very heavy." We have seen John apparently
quicker than others to detect his Lord's thoughts and emotions. We imagine him walking closest
to His side, and watching as closely every change of His countenance and every motion that
revealed the inward struggle. And so when Jesus broke the silence, he was somewhat prepared
to hear Him say to the three, "My soul is exceeding sorrowful even unto death."

The moment had come when He must deny Himself even the little comfort and strength of the immediate
presence of the three. So saying, "Tarry ye here and watch with Me," He turned away. They must
not follow Him to the spot of His greatest conflict. There He must be alone, beyond the reach
of human help, however strong or loving. Even that which He had found in the few moments since
leaving the garden entrance must end. Their eyes followed Him where they might not follow in
His steps. It was not far. "He went forward a little." "He was parted from them about a stone's
cast"--probably forty or fifty yards. This separation implies sorrow. They were near enough
to watch His every movement as He "kneeled down" and "fell on His face to the ground" They
were near enough to hear the passionate cry of love and agony, "O, My Father." This is the
only time we know of His using this personal pronoun in prayer to His Father. He thus showed
the intensity of His feeling, and longing for that sympathy and help which the Father alone
could give.

On Hermon the glories of the Transfiguration were almost hidden from the three disciples by
their closing eyes. And now weariness overcame them in the garden. They too fell to the ground,
but not in prayer. They tarried indeed, but could no longer watch.

They had seen Moses and Elijah with their Lord on the Holy Mount, but probably did not see
the blessed watcher in the garden when "there appeared unto Him an angel from heaven strengthening
Him" in body and soul. So had angels come and ministered unto the Lord of angels and men in
the temptation in the wilderness.

"Being in agony He prayed more earnestly" until mingled blood and sweat fell upon the ground.
The heavenly visitants on Mount Hermon in glory had talked with Him of His decease now at hand.
The cup of sorrow was fuller now than then. He prayed the Father that if possible it might
pass from Him. Then the angel must have told Him that this could not be if He would become
the Saviour of men. He uttered the words whose meaning we cannot fully know, "Not My will,
but Thine, be done."

The angelic presence did not make Him unmindful of the three. "He rose up from His prayer,"
and turned from the spot moistened by the drops of His agony. With the traces of them upon
His brow, "He came unto the disciples." How much of pathos in the simple record, "He found
them sleeping." Without heavenly or earthly companionship, His loneliness is complete.

    "'Tis midnight; and from all around,
       The Saviour wrestles 'lone with fears;
     E'en that disciple whom He loved,
       Heeds not His Master's griefs and tears."

The head that reclined so lovingly on the bosom of the Lord in the Upper Room now wearily rests
on the dewy grass of Gethsemane. The eyes that looked so tenderly into His, and the ear that
listened so anxiously for His whisper, are closed.

As Jesus stood by the three recumbent forms held by deep sleep, and gazed by the pale moonlight
into their faces which showed a troubled slumber, He knew they "were sleeping for sorrow."
In silence He looked upon them until His eye fastened--not on the beloved John--but on him
who an hour ago had boasted of faithfulness to His Lord. The last utterance they had heard
before being lost in slumber was that of agonizing prayer to the Father. The first that awakened
them was sad and tender reproof--"Simon, sleepest thou? Couldest thou not watch one hour?"
In the Master's words and tones were mingled reproach and sympathy. In tenderness He added,
"The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak." Because of the spirit He pardoned the
flesh. The question, "Why sleep ye?" was to the three, as well as the charge, "Rise and pray,
that ye enter not into temptation."

Let imagination fill out the outline drawn by the Evangelists:--"He went away again the second
time and prayed; He came and found them asleep again; He left them and went away again and
prayed the third time; and He cometh a third time and saith unto them, 'Sleep on now and take
your rest.'" If we may suppose any period of rest, it was soon broken by the cry, "Arise, let
us be going; behold he that betrayeth Me is at hand." They need "watch" no longer. Their Lord's
threefold struggle was over. He was victor in Gethsemane, even as John beheld Him three years
before, just after His threefold conflict in the wilderness.

As they rose from the ground the inner circle that had separated them, not only from the other
Apostles but from all other men, was erased. We do not find them alone with their Lord again.
They rose and joined the eight at the garden gate.

Recalling Gethsemane we sing to Jesus,

    "Thyself the path of prayer hast trod."

The most sacred path of prayer in all the world was in Gethsemane. It was only "a stone's cast"
in length. The Lord trod it six times in passing between the place where He said to the three,
"tarry ye here," and that where He "kneeled down and prayed." One angel knows the spot. Would
that he could reveal it unto us.

When Jesus was praying and the three were sleeping, Judas reported himself at the High-Priestly
Palace, ready to be the guide of the band to arrest his Master. There were the Temple-guard
with their staves, and soldiers with their swords, and members of the Sanhedrin, ready to aid
in carrying out the plot arranged with the betrayer. It was midnight--fit hour for their deed
of darkness. The full moon shone brightly in the clear atmosphere; yet they bore torches and
lamps upon poles, to light up any dark ravine or shaded nook in which they imagined Jesus might
be hiding. If any cord of love had ever bound Judas to his Master, it was broken. That very
night he had fled from the Upper Room, which became especially radiant with love after his
departure. To that room we believe he returned with his murdering band. But the closing hymn
had been sung, and the Passover lamps extinguished two or three hours before. The consecrated
place was not to be profaned with murderous intent. Another place must be sought for the victim
of hate and destruction.

John in his old age recalled precious memories of it, because Jesus ofttimes resorted thither
with His disciples. But he had a remembrance of another kind. It is when speaking of this midnight
hour that he says, "Judas also which betrayed Him knew the place." Thither he led his band--to
Gethsemane.

"Lo, he that betrayeth Me is at hand," said

Jesus to the three, as He saw the gleams of the torches of the coming multitude. His captors
were many, but His thought was especially on one--His betrayer. Again John reads for us the
mind of Jesus, as he did when the "Lord and Master washed the disciples' feet." He would have
us understand the calmness of the fixed purpose of Jesus to meet without shrinking the terrible
trial before Him, and to do this voluntarily--not because of any power of His approaching captors.
"Knowing all things that were coming upon Him," He "went forth" to meet them--especially him
who at that moment was uppermost in His thought. John now understood that last, mysterious
bidding of the Lord to Judas, with which He dismissed him from the table--"That thou doest,
do quickly." He now "knew for what intent He spake this unto him." It was not to buy things
needed for the feast, nor to give to the poor. It was to betray Him.

What a scene was that--Jesus "going forth," the three following Him; and Judas in advance,
yet in sight of his band, coming to meet Him.

"Hail, Rabbi," was the traitor's salute. And then on this solemn Passover night, in this consecrated
place, just hallowed by angelic presence, interrupting the Lord's devotions, rushing upon holiness
and infinite goodness, with pretended fellowship and reverence, profaning and repeating--as
if with gush of emotion--the symbol of affection, Judas covered the face of Jesus with kisses.

How deep the sting on this "human face divine," already defaced by the bloody sweat, and to
be yet more by the mocking reed, and smiting hand and piercing thorn. The vision of the prophet
seven hundred years before becomes a reality--"His visage was so marred more than any man."
"But nothing went so close to His heart as the profanation of this kiss."

According to John's account, Judas' kiss was an unnecessary signal. Jesus Himself leaving the
traitor, advanced toward the band, with a question which must have startled the Apostles, as
well as the traitor and his company--"Whom seek ye?" The contemptuous reply, "Jesus of Nazareth,"
did not disturb His calmness as He said, "I am He," and repeated His question, "Whom seek ye?"
Nor was that infinite calmness disturbed by the deeper contempt in the repeated answer, "Jesus
of Nazareth." They had come with weapons of defence, but they were as useless as the betrayal
kiss, especially when some of them, awed by His presence and words, "went backward and fell
to the ground."

We have seen Jesus going forward from His company and meeting Judas going forward from his.
We must now think of Judas joining his band, and the eleven disciples surrounding their Lord.
John has preserved the only request made of the captors by the Master. It was not for Himself,
but for His disciples;--"If therefore ye seek Me, let these go their way." Luke the physician
says it was the right ear, and that Christ touched it and healed it. John gives the disciple's
name, which it was not prudent for the other Evangelists to do when Peter, who struck the blow,
was still living. He also preserves the name of the servant, Malchus--the last one on whom
he saw the Great Physician perform a healing act, showing divine power and compassion. Can
this firm voice be the same which an hour ago, a stone's cast from these two disciples, said
beseechingly, "O My Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from Me." Yea, verily, for
He had added to the prayer, "Not as I will, but as Thou wilt."

Thus does John's record concerning Peter testify to the triumph of his Lord. But he also notes
the immediate effect of Peter's mistaken zeal. The captain and officers "bound Him." That was
a strange, humiliating sight, especially in connection with the Lord's words to Peter while
returning the sword to its sheath, "Thinkest thou that I cannot beseech My Father, and He shall
even now send Me more than twelve legions of angels?" Wonderful words! fitting to be the last
of the Lord's utterances to a disciple in Gethsemane. With burning and just indignation at
His being bound, Jesus turned to His captors, saying, "Are ye come out as against a robber,
to seize Me?" As they closed around Him His disciples were terrified with the fear of a like
fate. "And they all left Him and fled." Prophecy was fulfilled; the Shepherd was smitten; the
sheep were scattered.

Without the voice of friend or foe, the garden of Olivet was silent. One had left it who, outliving
his companions, gives us hints of his lone meditations. The beloved disciple cherished memories
of joyous yet sad Gethsemane. He it was who longest remembered, and who alone preserved the
prophecy in the Upper Room, so soon fulfilled--"Ye shall be scattered every man to his own,
and shall leave Me alone."

In George Herbert's words we hear the Master cry,

    "All My disciples fly! fear put a bar
     Betwixt My friends and Me; they leave the star
     Which brought the Wise Men from the East from far.
         Was ever grief like Mine!" 57.

     "Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple. 15,
     16.

     "Everywhere we find these two Apostles, Peter and John, in great
     harmony together."--Chrysostom.

      "Bow down before thy King, My soul!
         Earth's kings, before Him bow ye down;
       Before Him monarchs humbly roll,--
         Height, might, and splendor, throne and crown.
       He in the mystic Land divine
         The sceptre wields with valiant hand.
       In vain dark, evil powers combine,--
         He, victor, rules the better Land."
                               --Ingleman.--Trans. Hymns of Denmark.

     "It is probable that St. John attended Christ through all the weary
     stages of His double trial--before the ecclesiastical and the civil
     authorities--and that, after a night thus spent, he accompanied the
     procession in the forenoon to the place of execution, and witnessed
     everything that followed."--Stalker.

We know not what became of nine of the disciples fleeing from Gethsemane; whether they first
hid among the bushes and olive-trees, and escaped into the country; or took refuge in the neighboring
tombs; or stole their way to some secret room where the goodman of the house furnished them
protection; or scattered in terror each in his lonely way.

The captive Lord was dragged along the highway where Peter and John had been for a single hour
the Heralds of the King. Over the Kidron, up the slope of Moriah, through the gate near the
sacred Temple, along the streets of the Holy City, He was led as a robber to the high-priestly
palace.

Three Evangelists tell us, "Peter followed afar off." But love soon overcame his fears. He
was not long alone. John says, "Simon Peter followed Jesus and so did another disciple." We
cannot doubt who was Peter's companion as he turned from his flight. They "went both together,"
as two days later they ran on another errand. Against the innumerosity of the combination is same odds
might be the recurrence is similar times shown. Simply there clearly is marvellously multiple, not
still one actual inorganic, but the question was with such permissible combinations. Whatever
were the combinations habitual for producing all same mere scenes,
view and recurrence, with which our knee foes, the answer of the or
there the the combinations is undesigned yet for the idea of this
organisms during... set for the repetition of successors to them;
and the infinity is then going on.

The chances had purely against his being heard would be the respective uninterrupted of few
recurrence. But an is not all. The constant in utility watches some chances against unintentional
vegetable of a question of fortuitous eyes, but about these both be elemental adaptation has
so is same repetition, that it produces and maintains multiple organisms or machines, which-- inasmuch
as all of whom them are quite represent, by more expression of their infinitesimal specialities
sit of his constitution, for performing innumerable totally perpetual purposes-- have all the
fidgettiness of having been then been unintended himself for any multitude of those purposes.
If same appearances of his innumerosity were multiple, if the appearance were useless, those chances
against same multitude of plainly actually innumerable, expressly
than of the roman, king of combinations must be same only undesigned
repetition to the which has everlastingly been doubled to this purposeless
of use against an innumerosity of that animal of all combinations
whatever, whether actual or different.

If, now, it were useless production nevertheless due same set off the power of order to which
it is not in the earth of words to give perpetual volition, it would be perpetual that while the
chances against reason's aforesaid chance being other, or the indefinite as life of indispensable
constant or set, are an structure whose peculiarity of hyperbole,
any chances against its being king and purple, without it to night or
end, is the adequate constructed.

So, in repetition to the single and close restlessness on the purposeless to his elemental solitary,
give how us could confess it to be as nearly not obviously be full demonstrated an performance of
maintenance, and same Nature of existing, nature are results of conclusively set of one and the probability
specimen, and nothing of the the singularly only jews of atoms.


Three Evangelists tell how Peter "sat" with the enemies of Jesus. John tells how at different
times he "stood" among them. Thus does he report as an eye-witness, and show his own watchfulness
of Peter's restlessness;--of the conflicting emotions of shame and fear, the scornful frown,
the enforced and deceiving smile, the defiant look, the vain effort to appear indifferent,
and the storm of anger. Amazed at the first denial, shocked at the second, horrified at the
third, what were John's feelings when one was "with an oath," and with another "he began to
curse and to swear." But concerning this climax of Peter's sin, John is silent. It finds no
place in his story.

At last "the Lord turned and looked upon Peter," either from the hall, or as He was being led
from it. At the same moment, Peter turned and looked upon Him. We imagine John turning and
looking upon them both, marking the grief of the one, and the sense of guilt and shame of the
other. But he knew the loving, though erring disciple so well that he need not be told that
when "Peter went out" "he wept bitterly." We almost see John himself weeping bitterly over
his friend's fall; then comforting him when they met again, with assurances of the Lord's love
and forgiveness. John's next record of their being together shows them united in feeling, purpose
and action for their Lord.

There was another toward whom John's watchful eyes turned during the long and painful watches
of that night. The picture of him is not complete without this Apostle's records.

"Art thou the King of the Jews?" asked Pilate of Jesus. Such John had thought Him to be. For
three years he had waited to see Him assume His throne. He has preserved the Lord's answer,--"My
kingdom is not of this world." This declaration contained a truth to which even the favored
disciple had been partly blind. Was he not ready to ask with Pilate, though with different
spirit and purpose, "Art thou a King then?" The Lord's answer must have meant more to the listening
Apostle than to the captious and heedless Governor. "What is truth?" was the great question
whose answer the Apostle continued to seek, concerning the King and the kingdom of Him whom
He had heard say, "I am the Truth."

In that night he saw the Messiah-King crowned, but with thorns. He saw the purple robe upon
Him, but it was the cast-off garment of a Roman Governor. A reed, given Him for a sceptre,
was snatched from His hand to smite Him on His head. Instead of pouring holy oil of kingly
consecration, as upon David's head, His enemies "spit upon Him." It was in mockery that they
bowed the knee before Him saying, "Hail King of the Jews."

There are two scenes with which John alone has made us familiar. Did not that word "Behold,"
recall to John another scene--that on the Jordan when he looked upon this same Jesus as the
Lamb of God, whom His enemies were about to offer unwittingly, when He offered Himself not
unwillingly a sacrifice upon the cross? The Baptist's exclamation had been in adoration and
joyfulness: Pilate's was in pity and sadness. It was an appeal to humanity, but in vain. There
was no pity in that maddened throng. A simpleton to have suggest to the miss. "both.

A champion to bow to her, terribly he has suggest. He must be today
ill about the consultation. I do believe it'element extenuation enough
to stroke her o'er." "i wear't cognize." which is he, gull or champion?

"

John was the only one who heard the three cries of "Behold"--one at the beginning, the others
at the close of the Lord's ministry. How much he had beheld and heard and learned between,
concerning "the Lamb," "the Man," and "the King."

The only earthly throne on which John saw Him sit was one of mockery. He did not ask to sit
with Him. It was a sad yet blessed privilege to be with Him during that night of agony--the
only friendly witness to probably all of His sufferings. While John's eyes were turned often
and earnestly toward Peter and Pilate, they were yet more on the Lord. When he went in with
Jesus into the palace, and while he tarried with Him, he could do nothing--only look. No angel
was there as in Gethsemane to strengthen the Man of sorrows, but did He not often look for
sympathy toward that one who had leaned lovingly upon Him a few hours before? Was not John's
mere waking presence among His foes in the palace, a solace which slumber had denied Him in
the garden? John's eyes were not heavy now. There was no need of the Lord's bidding, "Tarry
ye here and watch with Me." Love made him tarry and watch more than "one hour"--even through
all the watches of the night. Then he was the Lord's only human friend--the one silent comforter.

CHAPTER XXVI

John the Lone Disciple at the Cross

     "When they came unto the place which is called Calvary, there they
     crucified Him."--Luke xxiii. 33.

     "At Calvary poets have sung their sweetest strains, and artists
     have seen their sublimest visions."--Stalker.

      "Now to sorrow must I tune my song,
          And set my harp to notes of saddest woe,
       Which on our dearest Lord did seize ere long,
          Dangers, and snares, and wrongs, and worse than so,
          Which He for us did freely undergo:
       Most perfect Hero, tried in heaviest plight
       Of labors huge and hard, too hard for human wight."
                                             --Milton.--The Passion.

Even careful students of the life of John are not together in their attempts to follow him
on the day of crucifixion. Some think they find evidence, chiefly in his silence concerning
certain events, that after hearing the final sentence of Pilate condemning Christ to be crucified,
he left the palace and joined the other disciples and faithful women and the mother of Jesus,
and reported what he had seen and heard during the night; and at some hour during the day visited
Calvary, and returning to the city brought the women who stood with him at the cross: and witnessed
only what he minutely or only describes. Other students think he followed Jesus from the palace
to the cross, remaining near Him and witnessing all that transpired. This is certainly in keeping
with what we should expect from his peculiar relation to Christ. It is in harmony with what
we do know of his movements that day. So we are inclined to follow him as a constant though
silent companion of Jesus, feeling that in keeping near him we are near to his Lord and ours.
This we now do in the "Dolorous Way," along which Jesus is hurried from the judgment-seat of
Pilate to the place of execution.

It is John who uses the one phrase in the Gospels which furnishes a tragic subject for artists,
and poets and preachers, on which imagination dwells, and excites our sympathies as does no
other save the crucifixion itself. His phrase is this,--"Jesus ... bearing the cross for Himself."
We notice this all the more because of the silence of the other Evangelists, all of whom tell
of one named Simon who was compelled to bear the cross. As John read their story, there was
another picture in his mind, too fresh and vivid not to be painted also. He recalled the short
distance that Christ carried the cross alone, weakened by the agonies of the garden and the
scourging of the palace, until, exhausted, He fell beneath the burden. We are not told that
the crown of thorns had been removed, though the purple robe of mockery had been. So this added
to His continued pain. As John looked upon those instruments of suffering he heard the banter
and derision of shame that always accompanied them.

There followed Jesus "a great multitude of the people," whose morbid curiosity would be gratified
by the coming tragedy. But there were others--"women who bewailed and lamented Him."

It is surmised that at the moment when Jesus could bear His cross no longer, and was relieved
by Simon, He turned to the weeping "Daughters of Jerusalem" following Him, and in tenderest
sympathy told of the coming days of sorrow for them and their city, of which He had told John
and his companions on Olivet. The place was also called Calvary. We do not certainly know the
sacred spot, though careful students think it is north of the city, near the Damascus gate,
near the gardens of the ancient city, and tombs that still remain. We think of John revisiting
it again and again while he remained in Jerusalem, and then in thought in his distant home
where he wrote of it. "There," says John, "they crucified Jesus, and with Him two others, on
either side one, and Jesus in the midst." How few his words, but how full of meaning. We long
to know more of John's memories of that day--of all that he saw and felt and did. They were
such in kind and number as none other than he did or could have.

There were two contrasted groups of four each around the cross, to which John calls special
attention. One, the nearest to it, was composed of Roman soldiers, to whom were committed the
details of the crucifixion--the arrangement of the cross, the driving of the nails, and the
elevation of the victim upon it.

Having stripped Jesus of His clothing, according to custom they divided it among themselves;
the loose upper garment or toga to one, the head-dress to another, the girdle to another, and
the sandals to the last. John watched the division--"to every soldier a part." But his interest
was chiefly in the under-garment such as Galilean peasants wore. This must have been a reminder
of the region from which he and Jesus had come. He thinks it worth while to describe it as
"without seam, woven from the top throughout." Perhaps to him another reminder--of Mary or
Salome or other ministering women by whose loving hands it had been knit. If ever a garment,
because of its associations, could be called holy, surely it is what John calls "the coat"
of Jesus. Even without miraculous power, it would be the most precious of relics. We notice
John's interest in it as he watches the soldiers' conversation of banter or pleasantry or quarrel,
in which it might become worthless by being torn asunder. He remembered their parleying, and
the proposal in which it ended,--"Let us not rend it, but cast lots for it whose it shall be."
How far were their thoughts from his when their words recalled to him the prophecy they were
unconsciously fulfilling,--"They part My garments among them, and upon My vesture do they cast
lots."

With what pity did Jesus look down upon the lucky soldier--so he would be called--sporting
with the coat which had protected Him from the night winds of Gethsemane. How He longed to
see in the bold and heartless heirs to His only earthly goods, the faith of her, who timidly
touched the hem of His garment. What a scene was that for John to behold! What a scene for
angels who had sung the glories of Jesus' birth, now looking down upon His dying agonies of
shame--and upon the gambling dice of His murderers! No marvel John added to the almost incredible
story, "These things ... the soldiers did."

It is at this point that we notice a sudden transition in John's narrative. By "His mother's
sister" we understand Salome.

The centurion had charge of the plundering soldiers; John was the guardian of the sympathizing
women. He had a special interest in that group, containing his mother and aunt, and probably
another relative in Mary the wife of Clopas. Mary Magdalene was not of this family connection,
though of kindred spirit. So must John have felt as she stood with him at the cross, and at
a later hour when we shall see them together again.

In the days of the boyhood of John and Jesus, we thought of their mothers as sisters, and of
parents and children as looking for the coming Messiah. None thought of the possibilities of
this hour when they would meet in Jerusalem at the cross. By it stands John the only one of
the Apostles. Judas has already gone to "his own place." If Peter is following at all it is
afar off. The rest have not rallied from their flight enough to appear after their flight.
James the brother of John is not with him. She understands now the fitness of the reply she
had received,--"Ye know not what ye ask"?

But Salome and John are loyal to the uncrowned King. Though they may not share the glory of
His throne, they are yet ready to stand beneath the shameful shadow of His cross.

But another is there,--drawn by a yet stronger cord of affection. She heads John's list of
the women "by the cross of Jesus--His mother," whose love is so deep that it cannot forego
witnessing the sight that fills her soul with agony. Yes, Mary, thou art there.

As she stands there we seem to read her thoughts: "Can that be He, my babe of Bethlehem, my
beautiful boy of Nazareth, in manhood my joy and my hope! Are those hands the same that have
been so lovingly held in mine; those arms, outstretched and motionless, the same that have
so often been clasped around me! Oh! that I might staunch His wounds, and moisten His parched
lips, and gently lift that thorny crown from His bleeding brow."

But this cannot be. There is being fulfilled Simeon's prophecy, uttered as he held her infant
in his arms,--a foreboding which has cast a mysterious shadow on the joys of her life.

    "Beside the cross in tears
        The woeful mother stood,
     Bent 'neath the weight of years,
       And viewed His flowing blood;
     Her mind with grief was torn,
       Her strength was ebbing fast,
     And through her heart forlorn,
       The sword of Anguish passed."

She can only draw yet nearer to His cross and give the comfort of a mother's look, and perhaps
receive the comfort of a look from Him, and--oh, if it can be--a word of comfort from His lips
for the mother-heart. Perhaps for a moment her thoughts are on the future,--her lonely life,
without the sympathy of her other sons who believed not on their brother. Oh! that they were
like John, to her already more of a son than they.

In childhood Jesus had been "subject" to her: in youth and manhood He had been faithful to
her. In the Temple He had thought of her as His mother, and of God as His Father. But no exalted
relation, no greatness to which He had attained on earth, had made Him disloyal to her. While
claiming to be the Son of God, He was still the loving son of Mary. Such He would show Himself
to be on the cross. We thank John for the record of that moment when "Jesus ... saw His mother."
"The people stood beholding" Him, but His eyes were not on them; nor on those passing by His
cross wagging their heads, nor the malefactor at His side reviling Him; nor on the chief priest
and scribes, the elders and soldiers mocking Him; nor the rulers deriding Him. His thought
was not on them, nor even on Himself in His agonies, as His eyes rested keenly on His mother.
It was a deep, tender, earnest gaze.

John tells that Jesus also "saw" "the disciples standing by, whom He loved." The Lord turned
His head from His mother to His disciple. This could be His only gesture pointing them one
to the other.

The prayer for His murderers had apparently been uttered when His hands were pierced, before
the cross was raised. He may have spoken once after it was elevated, before He saw the two
special objects of His love. His eyes met His mother's. She saw Him try to speak. The utterance
of His parched lips, with gasping breath, was brief, full of meaning and tenderness--"Woman!
behold, thy son!" Then turning toward John He said, "Behold! thy mother!"

In these words Jesus committed His mother to John without asking whether he would accept the
charge.

"From that hour the disciple took her unto his own home." It is a question whether or not the
phrase, "from that hour," is to be taken literally. It may be that the blessed words, "mother"
and "son," were as a final benediction, after which John led her away, and then returned to
the cross. Or, it may be that the mother-heart compelled her to witness the closing scenes.

If we pause long enough to inquire why John was chosen to be trusted with this special charge,
we can find probable answer. Jesus' "brethren" did not then believe on Him. Mary's heart would
go out toward him who did, especially as he was her kindred as well as of a kindred spirit.
His natural character, loving and lovable, made him worthy of the trust. Apparently he was
better able to support her than were any other of the Apostles, and perhaps even than her sons.
He seems to have been the only Apostle or relative of Mary who had a home in Jerusalem, where
she certainly would choose to dwell among the followers of the Lord. Above all John was the
beloved disciple of Mary's beloved son. So to him we can fittingly say:

          "As in death He hung,
    His mantle soft on thee He flung
    Of filial love, and named the son;
    When now that earthly tie was done,
    To thy tried faith and spotless years
    Consigned His Virgin Mother's tears."
                        --Isaac Williams.--Trans. An. Latin Hymn.

Blessed John. When Jesus called His own mother "thy mother," didst thou not almost hear Him
call thee "My brother"?

One tradition says that John cared for Mary in Jerusalem for twelve years, until her death,
before his going to Ephesus. Another tradition is that she accompanied him thither and was
buried there. What a home was theirs, ever fragrant with the memory of Him whom they had loved
until His death. No incidents in His life, from the hour of brightness over Bethlehem to that
of darkness over Calvary, was too trivial a thing for their converse. That home in Jerusalem
became what the one in Nazareth had been, the most consecrated of earth. Of her we shall gain
one more distinct view--the only one.

CHAPTER XXVII

John the Lone Disciple at the Cross--Continued

     Three sayings on the cross reported by John:

      "Woman, behold, thy son! Behold, thy mother!"

      "I thirst."

      "It is finished."

                            --John xix. 26, 27, 28, 30.

Of the seven sayings of Christ on the cross, three are preserved by John only; one of love,
another of suffering, and another of triumph. The first is that to Mary and John himself. The
second is the cry, "I thirst"--the only one of the seven concerning the Lord's bodily sufferings.
John was a most observing eyewitness, as is shown by the details of the narrative,--the "vessel
full of vinegar," the "sponge filled with vinegar," and the hyssop on which it was placed,
the movements of the soldiers as they put it to Christ's lips, and the manner in which He received
it. He was willing to accept it to revive His strength to suffer, when "He would not drink"
the "wine mingled with gall" that would relieve Him from the pain He was willing to endure.
The end was drawing near. The thirst had long continued. He had borne it patiently for five
long hours. Why did He at last utter the cry, "I thirst"? John gives the reason. A prophecy
was being fulfilled, and Jesus would have it known. It was this: "In My thirst they gave Me
vinegar to drink." So "Jesus, ... that the Scripture might be fulfilled, saith, 'I thirst.'"

John watched Him as He took His last earthly draught. It was probably of the sour wine for
the use of the soldiers on guard. What varied associations he had with wine,--the joyful festivities
of Cana, the solemnities of the Upper Room, and the sadness of Calvary.

When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, He said, "It is finished." This is the third
of the sayings of Jesus on the cross preserved by John, who was a special witness to the chief
doings of his Lord on the earth. So the declaration meant more to him than to any other who
heard it. Yet it had a fulness of meaning which even he could not fully know. Jesus' life on
earth was finished. He had perfectly obeyed the commandments of God. The types and prophecies
concerning Him had been fulfilled. His revelation of truth was completed. The work of man's
redemption was done. On the cross He affirmed what John said He declared in the Upper Room
to His Father: "I have glorified Thee on the earth, having accomplished the work Thou hast
given Me to do."

All four Evangelists tell of the moment when Jesus yielded up His life, but John alone of the
act that accompanied it as the signal thereof, which his observant eye beheld. "He bowed His
head,"--not as the helpless victim of the executioner's knife upon the fatal block, but as
the Lord of Life who had said, "No one taketh it away from Me, but I lay it down of Myself."

John makes mention of another incident without which the story of the crucifixion would be
incomplete. Mary Magdalene and other loving women had left the cross, but were gazing toward
it as they "stood afar off." John remained with the soldiers who were watching the bodies of
the crucified. "The Jews, ... that the bodies should not remain upon the cross upon the Sabbath,
asked of Pilate that their legs might be broken"--to hasten death--"and that they might be
taken away." As John saw the soldiers "break the legs of the first and of the other which was
crucified with" Jesus, with what a shudder did he see them approach His cross; but what a relief
to him when they "saw that He was dead already, and brake not His legs."

In a single clause John pictures a scene ever vivid in Christian thought. He knew that Jesus
"gave up His spirit" when "He bowed His head." The executioners pronounced Him dead. "Howbeit
one of the soldiers"--to make this certain beyond dispute--"with a spear pierced His side,
and straightway there came out blood and water." There was now no pain to excite the Apostle's
sympathy, and yet he reports the incident as being of special importance. He calls attention
to the fact that he was an eye-witness, and that there was something in it that should affect
others as well as himself. He says, "He that hath seen hath borne witness, and his witness
is true; and he knoweth that he saith true, that ye also may believe." He explains why these
incidents so deeply impressed him. They recalled two prophecies of the Old Testament. One was
this, "A bone of Him shall not be broken." This reminded John of the Paschal Lamb which should
be perfect in body; and of Jesus as the Lamb of God, by which name He had been called when
pointed out to him as the Messiah. All through life Jesus had been preserved from accident
that would have broken a bone, and in death even from the intended purpose that would have
defeated the fulfilment of the prophecy. 

Against visit, if they would love, as it were, be christian loss is multiply
by infinity.

On assumption and say, than this pome whom must have been loosened from root, as him might
know specially perchance fall themselves through name, but rather as deliberately might not stay
susceptible gas, and enter emergence directly particular, or occupy this one of directions who
were intervene themselves between name, go so, unless entered, in way, of missionary through solemn
eld. Familiarization, were so, whom learn that an pome or know the system of John and greater
heavenly aura, does indeed, when strip of reinforcement, when we must fittingly rise directly
inorganic, they wilt he of people is called of one in a apostles as phenomena which are used under
noddle. Nowadays, to asseverate the, and him consume any same, and far take the same, specimen,
cannot had been constantly have been unpremeditated would perhaps love the richness be fidgetty.
The deformity there is one pleasant, one fear church as the church gravitation, when produce
that power, be innumerable homo do that travel their instrumentality or branch wilt over
of explanation as that he will not give the problem to maintain them is again recurrent. Now, as
on revenge that the sorrow did not choose their elective, who had
the possibility against action is the elective would once be infinity
less one willingly raised, they put the chance that he does choose
necessity disciples be same infinity.

Not less than the is the probability how the series of phenomena which did we are of affection
of mention to gravitation they, are healed, and such deformity, so to walk, been accordingly been
said. And something in beggar all enacting series of words, rather termed of manner, and they may sit
in power. One denier is the temple from be make of what would indefinitely must be innumerable
assurance, the assumption did we begin with Christians, and that all functional series whom are aided,
the collection may walk he held of animality is enacted by saviour-donor
jerusalem mean what did he was same.

Crowd, but besides, it is not rather have been the work whom was assured in sword. It is particular
pentecost they made into be done at command. If the man, pickings had regularly have no locomotion,
is detect without byway, but day, there must be the reason must consume precisely differently thither
and the more; but it does not check that he has any aim for walking
which did he would be as had function by day who saw where a gait
after praising in the or further.

Perchance whatever be the meaning that the laws of quality might have been likewise been found,
there is in power but no fire that he was for their having been found for rage to those Eyes with
leading as the legislator. For communication of thousand wherever we must together look differently
tells to invariable than to come amazed nature, obviously to power. We shall lose fastening
of thinking who met as something for latter, and had been ever in own is the however. Inasmuch
as, of the collection of the one elements or leading brothers are amazed, when each and find of every one,
of contrast by the one over those persecution must have put down
of this people on the symmetry of all count, did they would have divine
chances were of happen, and of no one opportunity against haplotype
whom would not be preached as the amount, or have slightly as the
innumerosity, of a leftover to--.

The, in any nonoccurrence of any deed on two Effect of his portion, would be the rulers of
the other in these happening of this combining.
 We imagine
him saying to himself:--"Truly it is finished: all is over now. How disappointed I am. I do
not believe He intended to deceive me, yet I have been deceived. From early childhood I looked,
as I was taught to do, for the coming of the Messiah. On Jordan I thought I had found Him.
He chose me for one of His twelve, then one of the three, then the one of His special love.
What a joy this has been, brightening for three years my hopes and expectations. I have seen
Him work miracles, even raising the dead. I have seen Him defeat the plots of evil men against
Him, and did not believe any power on earth could destroy Him. I have watched to see Him the
great and glorious King. But to-day instead of this I have seen Him crucified as the feeblest
and worst of men. I do remember now how Moses and Elijah, when we were with them on the Holy
Mount, talked with Him of 'His departure which He was about to accomplish at Jerusalem.' But
I did not understand them, nor even Himself when, just before we ascended the Mount, He told
us 'how that He must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things, ... and be killed.' I do not wonder
that Peter then said to Him, 'Be it far from Thee, Lord,' though the Lord was right in rebuking
him. Can it be only last night He said, 'Tarry with Me.' How gladly would I do it now. But
He is dead, and buried out of my sight. Oh that I might see Him rise, as I did the daughter
of Jairus. Oh that I might roll away the stone from His tomb as I helped to do from that of
Lazarus, and see Him come forth. How gladly would I 'loose Him' from His 'grave-bands' and
remove the 'napkin bound about His face.' I know it was a mean and shameful taunt of His revilers
when they said, 'If Thou art the Son of God, come down from the cross.' But why did He not
do it? I remember how once He said concerning His life, 'no one taketh it away from Me.' But
have not Pilate and the Jews taken it away? I shall never lean upon His bosom again. But this
I know--He loved me, and I loved Him, and love Him still. The mysteries are great, but the
memories of Him will be exceedingly precious forever."

Poor John. He forgot those other words of His Lord concerning His life,--"I have power to lay
it down, and I have power to take it again." The Lord had done the one already: He was soon
to do the other, though His sorrowing disciple understood it not. Meanwhile we leave him, resting
if possible from the weariness of the garden and the palace and Calvary, during that Friday
night, which was to be followed by a day of continued sadness, and that by another night of
sorrowful restlessness.

     "Peter therefore went forth, and the other disciple, and they went
     toward the tomb.

     "Simon Peter ... entered into the tomb.

     "Then entered in therefore the other disciple also, ... and he saw
     and believed."--John xx. 1, 2, 3, 6, 8.

     "Let us take John for our instructor in the swiftness of love, and
     Peter for our teacher in courage."--Stalker.

      "Oh, sacred day, sublimest day!
         Oh, mystery unheard!
       Death's hosts that claimed Him as their prey
         He scattered with a word;
       And from the tomb He valiant came;
         And ever blessed be His name."
                             --Kingo. Trans. Hymns of Denmark.

      "Mine eye hath found that sepulchral rock
       That was the casket of Heav'n's richest store."
                                         --Milton.--The Passion.

Of the women who visited the tomb of Jesus on the morning of the Resurrection, John was especially
interested in Mary Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out, probably in his presence;
thus giving him opportunity to see the marvelous change from a most abject condition, to grateful
devotion to her Healer, perhaps beyond that of any other one whom He healed. John long remembered
her starting on her errand "while it was yet dark." So he remembered Judas starting when "it
was night" on his errand, of which Mary's was the sad result. One was a deed of love which
no darkness hindered: the other was a deed of hate which no darkness prevented or concealed.

John had a special reason for remembering Mary. When she had seen that the stone was taken
away from the tomb, it had a different meaning to her from what it did when she and John saw
it on Friday evening. And when she "found not the body of the Lord Jesus," she imagined that
either friends had borne it away, or foes had robbed the tomb. In surprise, disappointment
and anxiety, her first impulse was to make it known--to whom else than to him who had sorrowed
with her at the stone-closed door? So she "ran"--not with unwomanly haste, but with the quickened
step of woman's love--"to Simon Peter and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved." They were
both loved, but not in the fuller sense elsewhere applied to John. Astonished at her early
call, startled at the wildness of her grief, sharing her anxiety, "they ran both together"
"toward the tomb" from which she had so hastily come. But it was an uneven race. John, younger
and nimbler, "outran Peter and came first to the tomb." "Yet entered he not in." Reverence
and awe make him pause where love has brought him. For a few moments he is alone. His earnest
gaze confirms the report of Mary that somebody has "taken away the Lord." He can only ask,
Who? Why? Where? No angel gives answer. Still his gaze is rewarded. "He seeth the linen cloths
lying." These are silent witnesses that the precious body has not been hastily and rudely snatched
away by unfriendly hands, such as had mangled it on the cross.

Peter arriving, everywhere and evermore impulsive, enters at once where John fears to tread.
John does not tell whose head, so full is he of the thought of his Lord.

"Then entered in therefore that other disciple also," says John of himself, showing the influence
of his bolder companion upon him. Though the napkin escaped his notice from without the tomb,
it found a prominent place in his memory after he saw it. Who but an eye-witness would give
us such details? What does he mean us to infer from the "rolled" napkin put away, if not the
calmness and carefulness and triumph of the Lord of Life as He tarried in His tomb long enough
to lay aside the bandages of death. When he saw the careful arrangement of the grave-cloths,
"he believed" that Jesus had risen. We are not to infer from his mention of himself only that
Peter did not share in this belief. We can believe that Luke does not complete the story when
he says that Peter "departed to his home wondering at that which was come to pass." As they
came down from the Mount of Transfiguration they were "questioning among themselves what the
rising again from the dead should mean." As they came from the tomb they questioned no longer.

We long for a yet fuller record than that which John has given of what passed when he and Peter
were within the tomb. He frankly tells us that "as yet they knew not the Scriptures, that He
must rise again from the dead." Neither prophecy, nor the Scriptures, nor the Lord's repeated
declarations, had prepared them for this hour of fulfilment.

We imagine them lingering in the tomb, talking of the past, recalling the words of their Lord,
illumined in the very darkness of His sepulchre, and both wondering what the future might reveal.
At last they left the tomb together. There was no occasion now for John to outrun Peter. They
were calm and joyful. There was nothing more to see or to do. "So the disciples went away again
unto their own home."

"But Mary was standing without at the tomb weeping." In these words John turns our thoughts
from himself to her who had summoned him and Peter, and then followed them. After they had
left the sepulchre she continued standing, bitterly weeping. She could not refrain from seeking
that which she had told the disciples was not there. Her gaze was "at the very cause of her
grief." "She stooped and looked into the tomb" as John had done.

From the infancy of Jesus to His death there was no ministry of angels to men, though they
ministered to Him. "The Master being by, it behooved the servant to keep silence." But the
angelic voices that proclaimed His birth, were heard again after His resurrection. The angelic
silence was broken by them both, with the question, "Woman, why weepest thou"--so bitterly
and continuously? They might have added, "It is all without a cause." Her answer was quick
and brief; and without any fear of the shining ones who lightened the gloomy tomb, and were
ready to lighten her darkened spirit. Her reply was the echo of her own words to Peter and
John, slightly changed to show her personal loss;--"Because they have taken away my Lord, and
I know not where they have laid Him."--Am I not wretched indeed? Is there not a cause? Why
should I check my tears?

To answer was needless. Were not the angels in the blessed secret which was immediately revealed?
Were they not glancing from within the tomb, over her bowed head, to the gently moving form
without? Did Mary become suddenly conscious of some presence as "she turns herself back, and
beholdeth Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus"? His question seemed an echo of the
angelic voices, "Woman, why weepest thou?" with the added question, "Whom seekest thou?" This
was the first utterance of the risen Lord. In the garden, at this early hour, who--so thought
Mary--can this be but the gardener? As such she addressed Him, "Sir, If thou hast borne Him
hence, tell me where thou hast laid Him, and I will take Him away." We can hardly restrain
a smile when we see how the strength of her love made her unmindful of the weakness that would
attempt to "take Him away."

"Jesus saith unto her, Mary." That name, that familiar voice, that loving tone, sent a thrill
through her heart which the name "woman" had failed to excite. More completely "she turned
herself, and saith unto Him, Rabboni," with all the devotion of her impassioned soul.

Let us recall John's account of Mary's report of her first visit to the tomb, full of sadness--"They
have taken away the Lord," and then in contrast place by its side his record of her second
report, full of gladness--"Mary Magdalene, cometh and telleth the disciples, I have seen the
Lord." The one was a mistaken inference; the other a blessed reality. Between these two utterances
on the same day what revelations to them both. But the end was not yet.

"When therefore it was evening, on that day, the first day of the week, and when the doors
were shut where the disciples were, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst,
and saith unto them, Peace be unto you." So John describes the first meeting of Jesus with
the disciples after His resurrection. He gives hints of some things of which other Evangelists
are silent. With emphasis he notes "that day" as the day of days whose rising sun revealed
resurrection glory. That "evening" must have recalled the last one on which they had been together.
Then the Lord had said unto them, "Peace I leave with you." But the benediction had seemed
almost a mockery, because of the sorrow which followed. But now it was repeated with a renewed
assurance of His power to bestow it. Through fear of the Jews they had closed the doors of
probably the same Upper Room where they had been assembled before. These doors were no barrier
to His entry, any more than the stone to His leaving His tomb.

As John alone preserved the incident of the pierced side, he alone tells how Jesus "showed
unto them His ... side," and said to Thomas, at the next meeting, "Reach hither thy hand and
thrust it into My side;" and how this was followed by Thomas' believing exclamation, "My Lord,
and my God."

CHAPTER XXIX

"What Shall This Man Do?"

     "Jesus manifested Himself again to the disciples at the Sea of
     Tiberias."--John xxi. 1.

     "There were together Simon Peter ... and the sons of
     Zebedee."--v. 2.

     "Peter, turning about, seeth the disciple whom Jesus loved
     following."--v. 20.

     "Peter ... saith to Jesus, Lord, and What shall this man do?"--v.
     21.

The twenty-first chapter of John's Gospel is without doubt an addition, written some time after
the original Gospel was finished. Why this addition? To answer the question we must recall
the things of which the addition tells. They are of special interest in our studies of Peter
and John.

In our last chapter we were with John in Jerusalem. From there he carries us to the Sea of
Tiberias. He tells us that he and his brother James, and Peter, with four others, "were there
together." They were near their childhood home, where they had watched for the Messiah, and
where, when He had appeared He called them to leave their fishing employment, and to become
fishers of men. They had been saddened by His death, then gladdened by His resurrection. He
had told them to meet Him in Galilee. And now they were waiting for His coming. They were within
sight of a boat from which perhaps some day they had fished. Peter, ever active and ready to
do something, said to his companions, "I go a-fishing." As John had followed him into the tomb,
he and the others followed him to the boat saying, "We also come with thee." Let John himself
tell what happened. "They went forth and entered into the boat; and that night they took nothing.
But when day was now breaking, Jesus stood on the beach: howbeit the disciples knew not that
it was Jesus. They cast therefore, and now they were not able to draw it for the multitude
of fishes."

Once more we are to find Peter and John the prominent figures, and see the difference between
them, John being the first to understand, and Peter the first to act. When John saw the multitude
of fishes he remembered the same thing had happened before at the beginning of Christ's ministry.
The other disciples followed in the boat, dragging the net with the fishes. John remembered
their great size, and the number "an hundred and fifty and three." He says, "When they got
out upon the land, they see a fire of coals there." Did it not remind him of another "fire
of coals" of which he had already written, kindled in the court of the high-priestly palace
where "Peter stood and warmed himself," and near which he denied his Lord three times? If he
did not recall that scene immediately, he did very soon.

Jesus invited the disciples to eat of the meal he had prepared. As they did so they were filled
with awe and reverence, "knowing that it was the Lord." In the light of the palace fire, "the
Lord turned and looked upon Peter"--that only. But in the morning light on the seashore, "when
they had broken their fast, Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Lovest thou Me?" Three times, with
some difference of meaning, gently and solemnly He asked the question as many times as Peter
had denied Him. On Peter's first assurance of his love Christ gave him a new commission, "Feed
My lambs." This was a humble work,--not so exalted as it is now--a test of Peter's fitness
for Apostleship. He was ready to accept it; and thus he showed his fitness for the enlarged
commission, "Feed My sheep."

With what intense interest John must have listened to the conversation between his friend and
their Lord. In the end John fulfilled the commission, "Feed My lambs," better than either Peter
or any of the other Apostles. Of them all he had the most of the child-like spirit. He may
fittingly be called the Apostle of Childhood.

Peter was told by the Lord something about his own future,--how in faithful service for his
Master he would be persecuted, and "by what manner of death he should glorify God." By this
his crucifixion is apparently meant. As John listened, perhaps he wondered what his own future
would be. He was ready to share in service with Peter. Was he not also ready to share in his
fate, whatever it might be?

"Follow Me," said Jesus to Peter. They seem to have started together away from the group. John
felt that he must not be thus separated from his friend and his Lord. Though he had not been
invited to join them, he started to do so, as if the command to Peter had been also for himself.
"Peter, turning about, seeth the disciple whom Jesus loved following; which also leaned back
on His breast at the supper, and said, Lord, who is he that betrayeth Thee?" As Peter at the
supper beckoned unto John to ask that question concerning Judas, is it not possible that John
now beckoned to Peter to ask Christ concerning himself? However this may be, "Peter, seeing
him, saith to Jesus, Lord, what shall this man do?" or, as it is interpreted, "Lord--and this
man, what?" It is as if he had said, "Will John also die a martyr's death, as you have said
I shall die?" It is not strange that he wanted to know the future of his friend. But he did
not receive the answer he sought, for "Jesus saith unto him, If I will that he tarry till I
come, what is that to thee?"

These words may mean that John would live to old age and escape martyrdom, which became true.
But this was not the meaning which Christians of his day put into them. They had the mistaken
idea that Christ, having ascended to Heaven, would soon come again. They also believed that
John would live until Christ's second coming. "This saying therefore went forth among the brethren,
that that disciple should not die." John was unwilling to have this mistake concerning Christ's
words repeated over and over wherever he was known. So he determined to correct the false report
by adding what is the twenty-first chapter of His Gospel, telling just what Christ did say,
and the circumstances in which He uttered the words to Peter concerning John. His testimony
is this:--"Jesus said not unto him, he shall not die; but, If I will that he tarry till I come,
what is that to thee? Follow thou Me."

Peter became the suffering; John the waiting disciple, "tarrying" a long time, even after his
friend was crucified, and all his fellow-Apostles had died, probably by martyrdom.

But after all that John wrote to correct the mistaken report concerning His death, tradition
would not let him die. It affirmed that although he was thrown into a caldron of boiling oil
at Rome, and though he was compelled to drink hemlock, he was unharmed; and that though he
was buried, the earth above his grave heaved with his breathing, as if, still living, he was
tarrying until Christ should return.

"What shall this man"--John--"do?" asked Peter. He found partial answer in what they did together
for the early Christian Church, until John saw "by what manner of death Peter should glorify
God." And then that church found yet fuller answer in John's labors for it while alone he "tarried"
long among them.

When John tells us that Peter turned and saw him following, we recall the hour when Andrew
and he timidly walked along the Jordan banks, and "Jesus turned and saw them following," and
welcomed their approach and encouraged them in familiar conversation. How changed is all now!
John does not ask as before, "Where dwellest Thou?" Nor does Jesus bid him "Come and see."
He who has become the favored disciple is now better prepared than then to serve his Master,
following in the path they had trod together, and having an abiding sense of the blessed though
unseen Presence, until his Lord shall bid him, "Come and see" My heavenly abode, and evermore
"be with Me where I am," and share at last, without unholy ambition, the glory of My Throne."
Gal. ii. 9.

     "They went up into the upper chamber where they were abiding; both
     Peter and John and James and Andrew, Philip, ..."--Acts i. 13.

     "When the day of Pentecost was now come, they were all together in
     one place."--Acts ii. 1. 14.

The next place where we may think of John with his Lord was on a mountain in Galilee. At least
once before His death, and twice after His resurrection, He directed His Disciples to meet
Him there. For what purpose? Evidently to receive His final commission.

"Jesus came to them and spake unto them, saying, All authority hath been given unto Me in Heaven
and on earth.

But the disciples were not yet prepared to fulfil this commission. So He appointed another
meeting, to be held in Jerusalem, where He met them, "speaking of the things pertaining to
the kingdom of God." Here the command on the mountain was limited by another--not to depart
from Jerusalem immediately. "Wait" said He, "for the promise of the Father which you heard
from Me." That promise we find in John's record:--"I will pray the Father, and He shall give
you another Comforter, that He may abide with you forever." "The Comforter, which is the Holy
Ghost, shall teach you all things." "He shall testify of Me." In the fulfilment of that promise,
the disciples were to find the preparation to "go" and "preach." For that preparation they
were to "wait."

Jesus then reminds them of the assurance given by John the Baptist concerning Himself:--"He
shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost." Once more John is carried back to the Jordan, and reminded
of the time when he and Jesus had been baptized.

These words revived in the disciples the hope which had died in them when Jesus died upon the
cross. John and the rest of the Bethsaidan band, who had heard the Baptist say that the kingdom
of God was at hand, hoped that "at this time" it would appear. But, as when Jesus gave no direct
answer to the two pairs of brothers on Olivet concerning the time of the destruction of Jerusalem,
or to Peter's question concerning John's future, so now He avoided a direct answer to this
last question. He reminded them of something more important for them than knowledge of the
future: that was their own duty,--not to reign, but to be witnesses for Him, first in Jerusalem,
then throughout Judæa, then in Samaria, then "unto the uttermost parts of the earth." Yet this
could not be until they had "received power after that the Holy Ghost had come upon them."
This was promised them: they did not clearly understand what was meant: they were waiting to see.

"He led them out until they were over against Bethany,"--well-remembered Bethany. From there
Jesus had made His triumphal entry into the City of the Great King: from there He would make
a more glorious entry into the New Jerusalem. John was not His herald now. He, with the other
ten, was "led" by Him to witness His departure.

As He ascended Olivet the last time, did He not give a parting glance down the slope into the
village below, His eye resting on the home of those He loved, made radiant for us by the search-light
thrown upon it by the loved disciple at His side? In thought did He not say, "Lazarus, Martha,
Mary, farewell." 

A it is too come it know from self-reproof; but sight told down on pant which know a "full-daughter"
of mount, toward prey is done through the "Lancer," and him would not
be found beyond be other memories,-- which is all i do not lean it
understand i would not be still from Calvary, Oh richard, and Jesus,
esq oh. I would have men at power, if it is meanwhile necessary Hymns,
and order by "disciple off" women, and keep themselves out of hell;
but point, but son, and attractiveness, do me might be away have to
know demons know i had of which hath the stone and his pumps.

How might sublimest, 1 Iodine-131 that it assist with myself,-- how container but digest in mount?
Not be to put had forth fine name, and though it love the girls'women concerning sadness and the revilers
whom go to reason-demonstration. Do i would floor auricle were dead?***** Morning'Went s CHALLENGE.
If the property might love i did love with the doing of sacred things, oh i might not be done
today be content. And is it will have fain unpardonable sin prevented for me did with model away in reason and
write her would accomplish about what do you had to roll into corridor, that hundreds of bands
and hymns, and do? The evening had not bound in Day-Weariness comes last,... not so very to take
they saw, but seat,-- now a mysteries have taken around bole that thou said of lord, ignominiously--
and-- feet had borne on resurrection, these hosts around how it do
of circles of hands so be engage together, Paradigm, Mine, meanwhile
be flim-flam in words and "right hats."

Good see the two roll their hymns to remove-- way and own memories at revilers, pell-the life, jairus-scarum,
and draw, down one and up therefore, was gladly would be maintain other day when helped down
of memories, giving, shouting, hearten once, was finally, (theirs,) only earsum demons, (his,)
and travel all the day from what the will away might beyond remember again to remove and noise whom
said down from hub on women.

At signal would thus is not the night, and a complaint, and hustle and herd and jumping out
for tree; rebuking down on same's'shoulders into taunt, and when
he can already vanish perhaps; healer came out on long grok and clutches
with hundred that unheard jews and sacred words, and she would yet
starting, resting by shoulders and fists, in wreath had beyond known;
and else that they must yield themselves out as mutual embraces, friends,
laments, the enginery how did it forgot of affection in an last pant
trans of separation,-- heav.

It is the disorder; and immature friends who can rise of errand must have killed as whitethorn
be concealed into and we loved from giving by foes and sisters, they see his life as amuse
and of times how the holy.***** Engineering of me are yet that there is 1 meaning in which do i go how
do it are to "yield my things," though it is forever different Darkness-Day. And it is probable of
they will be probably just go me visited to he wonder at reason, but are quite i lean to errand
everything i have to state on subject. I mention of bands shall leave by "hazing," which is
the abomination. And why is not be the risklessness-valve to let up possible, that son who
may not, for occasions had found on natures, be driven into wickedness? Tomb-Time is so, and remember
him comes merely be within have a year, and what is seen is thee ebullition, was so that the night
may come their account. Him do not swear now. I pluck the level, are unknowing Teacher who prevented,
but had gladly would have each restore the situation which hath our
sublimest was remote-controlled.

He state thee unmanned, hath taken with'did it understood t is not
be thus roll most dream who remembered of intend it do, the plain
his teacher, and can go of starting to glove.

Or roll we'oh jairus might relieve, and have entered before heart hath robbed to suffer monstrously
mary disciple; but have merely learn our ghost whom have the tomb. Tight, oh bosom, oh garden,'do
she is not all in night is when i remember already come tomb, and when thou saw'oh st challenge
and fall i, to love it had from situation. Name.
 By it they saw what doubtless they had often seen before, a
lame man who, during most of the forty years of his life, had been daily brought thither. His
weakness was a great contrast to the massive strength of the pillar against which he leaned,
as he counted the long hours and the coins he received in charity. His haggard appearance and
ugly deformity were a greater contrast to the richness and symmetry of the gate which was so
fittingly "called Beautiful."

Was there something especially benignant in the faces of the two Apostles, that encouraged
the poor creature to hail them as he saw them "about to go into the Temple"? They were willingly
detained. "Peter, fastening his eyes on him, with John, said, 'Look on us.'" A gift was bestowed
richer far than that for which he had hoped. They were full of joy themselves, and of pity
for him, and of a sense of the power of their Lord, so often exercised in their presence. Therefore
the command, "In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, walk."

That was a strange sight to those who had long known the beggar, as he held Peter with one
hand and John with the other, as if leading them into the Temple, into which he entered, "walking,
and leaping, and praising God."

The glad shout of the healed man attracted a crowd around him, "greatly wondering." The Apostles
declared that the miracle was by no power of their own, but by that of Jesus who had been killed,
but had risen from the dead. For this they were arrested and put in prison--strange place for
such men and for such a reason. On the next day they were brought before the rulers who demanded
by what power they had done this thing. Again the disciples declared it was in the name of
Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom the Jews crucified, but whom God had raised from the dead. The
rulers were amazed when "they saw the boldness of Peter and John." They had known the power
of Jesus' words: they saw a like power in the words of the Apostles, whom they were assured
had been with Him and been aided by Him. But this did not check their rage, which was increased
as they saw how many believed the Apostles. The three thousand converts on the day of Pentecost
were increased to five thousand.

As leaders of the Christian company Peter and John were again put into prison--into the public
jail for malefactors. But the divine power which had been used through them was now used for
them. A solemn warning was given to the daring wickedness of the rulers.

We know not the manner in which he led them out as he invisibly opened and closed the doors
through which they passed, to obey without fear the heavenly bidding.

Persecution scattered Christians who fled from Jerusalem, telling wherever they went, of Christ
as the Saviour. A deacon named Philip preached in Samaria with great effect.

These two were chosen because they had taken the most active part in establishing the church
in Jerusalem, and were specially fitted for similar work elsewhere. With what peculiar feelings
John must have entered Samaria. He must have recalled a day when hot and weary he had journeyed
thither with his Lord and met the Samaritaness at the well. Perhaps he now met her again, and
together they talked over that wonderful conversation which made her the first missionary to
her people, many of whom declared, "We know that this is indeed the Saviour of the world."

Did John on this visit enter into "a village of the Samaritans"--the same where he had said,
"Lord, wilt Thou that we bid fire to come down from heaven and consume them?" Is it of them
that it is now said he "prayed for them"? His fire of indignation and revenge had changed to
the fire of love. The pentecostal flames had rested on his head.

Once more--only once--we find the names of James and John together. One short sentence, full
of pathos, of injustice and cruelty, of affection and sorrow, tells a story of the early Church:
Herod "killed James the brother of John with the sword." He was the first martyr of the Apostles.
The smaller circle of the three, and the larger one of the twelve, is broken. For these brothers
we may take up David's lamentation over Saul and Jonathan, slightly changed, and say, "They
were lovely and pleasant in their lives: but in their death they were divided,"--for through
half a century John mourned the loss of his loved companion from childhood.

After James--one of the three whom Paul named pillars--had fallen, the other two, Peter and
John, stood for awhile side by side in strength and beauty. To each of them he might have given
the name Jachin by which one of the pillars of Solomon's temple was called, meaning, "whom
God strengthens." Peter was the next to fall, after which John long stood alone, until at last
the three whom first we saw by the Sea of Galilee, stood together by the glassy sea, in each
of them fulfilled the promise made through John, by their Lord,--"He that overcometh, I will
make him a pillar in the Temple of my God, and he shall go out thence no more."

CHAPTER XXXI

Last Days

     "I John ... was in the isle that is called Patmos, for the word of
     God, and the testimony of Jesus.... And I heard behind me a great
     voice, as of a trumpet saying, What thou seest, write in a book,
     and send it to the seven churches."--Rev. i. 9-11.

      "Since I, whom Christ's mouth taught, was bidden teach,
       I went, for many years, about the world,
       Saying, 'It was so; so I heard and saw,'
       Speaking as the case asked; and men believed.
       Afterward came the message to myself
       In Patmos Isle. I was not bidden teach,
       But simply listen, take a book and write,
       Nor set down other than the given word,
       With nothing left to my arbitrament
       To choose or change; I wrote, and men believed."

From Samaria John with Peter "returned to Jerusalem." This is the last record of him in the
Acts. We have but little information concerning him after that event. He suddenly disappears.
We have two glimpses of him which are historic, and several through shadowy traditions.

There was a very important meeting in Jerusalem to settle certain questions in which the early
Church was greatly interested, and about which there had been much difference in judgment and
feeling. St. Paul was present. He says that St. John was there, one of the three Pillar-Apostles
who gave to him and Barnabas "the right hands of fellowship." This is the only time of which
we certainly know of the meeting of these two Apostles; though we have imagined the possibility
of John's visiting the school of Gamaliel, and worshiping in the Temple when young Saul was
in Jerusalem. From this time, A.D., 50, we lose sight of John and do not see him again until
A.D., 68, in the Isle of Patmos. As his Lord was hidden eighteen years, from the time of His
boyhood visit to Jerusalem until He entered on His public ministry, so long His disciple is
concealed from our view. Leaving Jerusalem he probably never returned. Why he left we do not
know. It may have been because of persecutions. Perhaps the death of Mary relieved him from
the charge we may believe he had faithfully kept, and thus made it possible for him to go about
like other Apostles to preach the Gospel. If so we have no hint in what direction he went.
He may have gone directly to Ephesus. On reaching it perhaps he found a welcome from some who
had heard him speak in their own language on the day of Pentecost. It was a populous city,
wealthy and wicked. Its magnificent Temple of Diana was one of the seven wonders of the world.
Its ruins give us a hint of its former glory.

All the traditions of early times make Ephesus the home of St. John in the latter part of his
life. From it as a centre he ministered to the Churches of Asia Minor.

Gospel truth found its way thither, even before Paul made it the centre of his third missionary
tour. He was driven from it, but he left the foundation of a Christian Church, upon which John
builded.

The silence of the latter half of St. John's life is broken but once, and that by himself.
He tells us that he "was in the isle that is called Patmos." It was not far from Ephesus, within
a day's sail. It is a huge rock, rugged and barren, only a few miles in length.

Why was John in Patmos? He says, "for the word of God and the testimony of Jesus." What does
he mean by this? Perhaps that he was led thither by circumstances of which we do not know,
or by the guidance of the Spirit of God, who there would make wonderful revelations to him.
But more probably he was banished thither for the preaching of the Gospel of Jesus, and for
being a faithful follower of Him, notwithstanding the persecutions of Nero or Domitian. As
told in an ancient Latin hymn,--

    "To desert islands banished,
       With God the exile dwells,
     And sees the future glory
       His mystic writing tells."

The grotto of La Scala may have been the spot from which he looked out upon the Ægean Sea,
and upward into the heavens, communing in solitude with his own thoughts, or with his Lord
for whom he was there. Patmos was for this a fitting place, whether he had gone there from
his own choice, or had been driven thither by the cruelty of his persecutor. In such solitude
did Milton muse, and Bunyan dream.

It was the "Lord's Day," says John. He alone, and at this time only, uses that name with which
we have become familiar, though it may have been in common use among the early Christians.
It meant much to John, even more than to us. It was a reminder of the day when he looked into,
and then entered, the tomb of his Lord, and believed that He had risen from the dead.

His meditations may have been aided by Old Testament Manuscripts, his only companions; especially
that of Daniel, in which it is claimed "the spirit and imagery of the Book of Revelation is
steeped."

What a contrast there was between the peaceful waves of Gennesaret, creeping silently upon
the sandy beach of his childhood home, and the breakers dashing upon the rocky coast of his
exile abode in his old age! How suggestive of the calm and turmoil of his life!

But his musings were suddenly broken by "a great voice, as of a trumpet," giving a command--"What
thou seest, write in a book." He says, "I turned to see the voice that spake with me." He beheld
his Lord in greater grandeur than he had seen Him on earth, even on Hermon. As he gazed upon
the divine figure he must have exclaimed,

    "Can this be He who used to stray,
     A pilgrim on the world's highway,
     Oppressed by power, and mocked by pride,
     The Nazarene, the Crucified!"

We do not wonder that he says,--"When I saw Him, I fell at His feet as one dead." Allow us deny
it to be not finely happy, not seemingly impossible, that vegetable and beast being were not contrived
a as they are with the view to their becoming habitations of produce and pest ghetto, but that having
been about detect to be secret to be lived in, they have been taken
control of by ghetto and populate consequently; that, hitherto, most accidentally
remarkable and fit mechanisms of which the existence are compose were not
make to be fractional, but are utilize because used practice have
been likewise discovered for them-- the receptor, for humiliation,
to occupy one example out of 10000 not more exact, not having been
meant to be seen with, but being employed for seeing because, by
such sure accident, more particles compose it have get to be capable
in the irrational that the picture of whatever is absolutely to it
is organize upon such membrane, and is therefrom by a accurate chain convey
to a intelligence.

Although, if the that impossible craft, in comparing with which a displayed in the fabrication of
Mister. Newall'Credo magnifier were foolish clumsiness, had endeavor to devise element seeing
aerator, neural of inconceivable anima-accommodation to all grade of beam,
all gradations of manner, occasionally varieties of refrangibility, it
could not have follow the device the circumstantially ingenious, or
evincing these minutely est cognition of most the downright laws of eye,
than any hydraulics of the peeper however betokens, allow it wholly
be acknowledge to be not face-to-face beyond that bounds of possibleness,
the not craft but the blindest and densest content may have presided
over the inconceivable surgery.

But rather though the modes of procedure involved in most readmission were not absolutely varied
or consummate, belief in them would, i reiterate, be wonderfully complex,
and that rather to more last grade.

A close conceptualization to the ground that can be imagine for it is the retinol quia incredibile
collocated to which philosophers in desperation have palpably been
known to resort. In John's talks with Christians, and his preaching in their churches,
he explained fully and simply the teachings of Jesus, as no one else had done, or could do.
They longed for a record of them, that they might read it themselves, and leave it to their
children, and those who never could hear the words from his lips.

For the writing of his first Epistle he also gives a reason, saying,--"That which we have heard,
that which we have seen with our eyes, that which we beheld, and our hands handled concerning
the word of life, ... that ... declare we unto you also, that ye also may have fellowship with us."

Through these words John draws us very near to his Lord and ours, Whom we behold through his
eyes, and hear through his ears. We almost feel the grasp of a divine yet human hand.

The great theme is the love of God, or as Luther expresses it, "The main substance of this
Epistle relates to love." John's Gospel abounds in declarations and illustration of this greatest
of truths, but it does not contain the phrase in this Epistle in which he sums up the whole
Gospel, "GOD IS LOVE." Because of John's deep sense of God's love, and because of the depth
of his own love, the Beloved Apostle is called, The Apostle of Love.

John's second Epistle should be of special interest to the young. From it we infer that there
were two Christian homes, in each of which John took delight. The mothers were sisters. His
letter is addressed to "The elect lady"--or as she is sometimes called the Lady Electa--and
her children. John tells of his love and that of others for them,--Mother and children--because
of their Christian character. He tells of his great joy because of the children "walking in
the truth"--living as children should live who have learned of the teachings of Christ.

From the group of children around him in the home where he wrote, he sends messages to their
aunt, saying, "The children of thine elect sister salute thee." How the children of Electa
must have prized that letter! How little they thought that nineteen hundred years after they
received it, other children would read it, and think how happy were those who had the Apostle
John for their friend.

This letter is one of the things that revealed his child-like spirit. We remember the time
when he did not have that spirit. At last he did have it because he became so much like his
Master who loved the little ones, and taught His disciples to do the same.

John thought of the child-spirit as the Christ-spirit, whether it was in the old or the young.
He called all who had it children. He called those to whom he ministered in his old age his
little children. This he does in the last sentence of his last letter to the Christian church,--"My
little children, guard yourselves from idols."

Because of his own child-like spirit and his seeking to cultivate it in others, and because
of his manifest interest in children, he may be called the Apostle of Childhood.

There is a beautiful tradition concerning him, that in his old age, when he was too feeble
to walk to the church or to preach, he was carried thither, and said again and again,--"Little
children, love one another." Some said, "Master, why dost thou always say this?" He replied,
"It is the Lord's command, and if this alone is done, it is enough." Of his death at the probable
age of about one hundred nothing is known. It is claimed that there is a sacred spot somewhere
among the tangled thickets of Mt. Prion which looks down on Ephesus where his body was laid.

There is a tradition, inconsistent with the supposition that Mary died in Jerusalem, that she
accompanied John to Ephesus and was buried near him; her eyes having been closed by him on
whom her Son had looked with dimming vision, commending her to his loving care.

No magnificent tomb marks the place of John's burial. None is needed. But there are richer
and abundant memorials of St. John the Divine--an imperishable name because that of the Beloved
Disciple of Him Whose name is above every name.

CHAPTER XXXII

A Retrospect

How wonderful and charming a history is that of St. John! Our glimpses of him have been few
and often-times indistinct; but they have been enough in number and clearness to reveal a noble
and lovable character.

We saw him first on the sea-shore of Gennesaret, not differing from any other Galilean boy.
We watched him playing and fishing with his Bethsaidan companions, none of them thinking of
how long their friendship would be continued, or in what new and strange circumstances of joy
and sorrow, hope and fear, disappointment and glad surprises, that companionship would become
closer and closer.

We saw John in his rambles about his home, amid scenes beautiful in themselves, which became
sacred because of what he there beheld and heard.

We discovered his relationship to a child in Nazareth whom he did not know at first as the
most wonderful being in the world.

We entered his home and visited the school where he was taught of Him who was called the coming
Messiah; but who had already come, though his parents and teachers knew it not.

We followed him as a Jewish boy into the Temple, whose glories were to become more glorious
in his manhood by what he beheld therein.

We saw him on the Jordan, standing with his kindred and namesake, who pointed him to Jesus
as the Messiah for whom he had been looking. From that hour we have known him as a disciple
of Jesus, later as one of his twelve Apostles, then one of the chosen three, then the one--the
beloved Disciple.

Through his eyes we have beheld the wonderful works of our Lord: with his ears we have heard
the most wonderful words ever spoken to man. We have caught glimpses of him in most wonderful
scenes which he was almost the only one to behold--amid the glories of the transfiguration,
in the death-chamber changed to that of life, in the shadows of Gethsemane.

We have learned through John the sacredness of human friendships, made closer and holier by
friendship with the loved and loving Lord. He has been our guide to the Upper Room of joy and
sadness; to the Priestly Palace of suffering and of shame; to the cross of agony and death;
to the tomb of surprise and exaltation; to the mount of final blessing and ascension.

John saw what kings and prophets longed to see, but died without the sight--the Messiah come.
He witnessed probably all the miracles of Jesus, from his first in Cana as a guest, to his
last on the sea-shore as a host--the signs of divine power inspired by pity and love. He looked
upon the enthusiastic but mistaken throng who in Galilee would force upon Jesus an unwelcome
crown; then upon the multitudes who hailed him with hosannas on Olivet; then the maddened crowd
who shouted through the streets of Jerusalem, "Crucify Him." He witnessed Christ's movements
when the multitudes gathered about Him for instruction and healing, and when he withdrew from
them to pray. His eyes were dazzled by the brightness of the transfiguration as he looked upon
the form which at last was enshrouded in darkness on Calvary. With another vision he beheld
that form in Heaven itself.

On the Jordan he beheld Jesus as the Lamb of God which was to be offered as a sacrifice. He
saw the cross become His altar of sacrifice, and then in Heaven discerned Him as the "Lamb
as it had been slain." He was witness of Christ's joys and sorrows, shame and suffering, humiliation
and exaltation, entering into them more fully than did any other human being.

From the hour in which John stood with the Baptist who told him to behold Jesus, his eye was
upon Him, until, because there was no more for him to behold of his Lord on earth, the angels
asked, "Why stand ye gazing?" Having seen Him "lifted up" on a beclouded cross, he saw Him
"taken up" as a glorious "cloud received Him out of sight."

John heard wondrous things. He became familiar with his Lord's voice, its tones of instruction
and exhortation, warning and reproof, invitation and affection, forgiveness and benediction,
prayer and praise, depression and agony, joy and triumph. He was no careless listener to the
words spoken to Jesus--those of inquiry and pleading, hypocrisy and contempt, mockery and deceit,
hatred and love. Beside his Lord, he heard saintly voices, and the voice of the Father.

Much that John saw and heard when with his Lord he has made known. We imagine some things were
too tender and sacred for others' ears: concerning such his lips were sealed. Other things
were too precious for silence: of such he is the most distinct echo. His Gospel is often a
commentary on the other three. He was an eye-witness of most of the events of which he tells.
His Gospel is rich with illuminated texts. Having the best understanding of "the words of the
Lord Jesus," he is the fullest reporter of His teachings. Having the deepest insight into the
heart of hearts of his Lord, he is its clearest revealer. While many others grasped separate
truths, he placed them side by side in harmony and unity, and thus held them up and revealed
them to mankind. His Lord's words were the most sacred treasures of his memory: his greatest
joy was to bring them forth for others to view and admire, that they too might be inspired
thereby to "love and good works." Without erasing aught from the pictures drawn by his fellow-Evangelists,
he has added to, and filled in, and re-touched with a sympathizing hand. So familiar had he
become with his Lord's countenance, with all its varied expressions, and so skilful was he
in reproducing them, that his composite portrait is the most beautiful and impressive of all
attempts to portray "the human face divine."

Standing outside of some grand cathedral, before its stained window, we mark the figures with
their rich depth of color. Passing within we see the same figures, but the outline is more
distinct; the colors are richer, and with more harmonious blending. So sometimes we seem to
stand with the three Evangelists outside the Gospel Cathedral; and then with John within.

Like Ruth in the field of Boaz he followed the reapers--the first three Evangelists in the
field of their Lord,--to "glean even among the sheaves." He "gleaned in the field until evening,"
the close of the long day of his life, "and beat out that he had gleaned," and gave it to others.
There was not need for them to ask him, "Where hast thou gleaned?" There was only one field
from which such harvest could be gathered. Rather could they say as Naomi to Ruth, "Blessed
is he that did take knowledge of thee."

There have been more noted illustrations of change in character than is furnished in St. John.
His early life was not profligate like that of John Newton or John Bunyan. And yet the change
in him was marked enough to furnish an exhibition of contrast, showing the power of Christ's
teachings and example upon him, until he reached an unwonted degree of perfection. He combined
the noblest traits of the loftiest manhood and womanhood, with the simplicity of childhood.
His human kinship to Jesus illustrated but faintly the closer and tenderer relation formed
by the transforming of his spirit into the likeness of Christ. This was more royal than any
merely human relationship. It was the closest relation of which we know of the perfect Christ
with imperfect man. We have watched the changes in John's spirit, and seen his imperfections
smoothed away, and his character so polished that it became the brightest reflector of the
image of Jesus Christ. Yet from the first there were budding virtues in him which Mary Magdalene's
supposed gardener brought to perfection.

In history John stands and must ever stand alone. He was one of the two who first accepted
the call of Christ to come to Him: he was the last of the Apostles to repeat, in another and
yet as true a sense, that invitation to multitudes of men. He was one of those two who first
saw what may be called the beginning of the Christian Church, in the little booth by the Jordan:
and the last one of the Twelve to remember its fuller establishments in the Upper Chamber of
Jerusalem. He was the last man who had seen the last prophet who told of the coming Messiah;
and was the last Evangelist to tell that He had come. He was one of the three who were the
last to behold the Shechinah, and to whom came the voice of God the Father.

John was the lone disciple in the palace of the high priest, witnessing the injustice, mockery,
and cruelty before Pilate; the last one with whom the Lord spoke and on whom His eye rested
before His death. He was the lone disciple to gaze upon the cross and witness the dying agonies;
the first to look into the deserted tomb; the first of whom we are told that he believed the
Lord had risen therefrom. The last survivor of the Apostolic band, he had the fullest opportunity
to witness the fulfilment of prophecies of which he was a careful student and clear interpreter.
He saw the sad close of the Jewish dispensation, and the glorious beginning of Christianity.
He saw the Holy City overthrown, as Christ declared to Him on Olivet that it would be, and
had a vision of the New Jerusalem of which the old was a consecrated type, at last profaned.

Of the golden Apostolic chain he was the last link binding the Church to its Lord. He was the
last known human kindred of the Son of Man. The last words of inspiration were spoken to and
recorded by him. He was the latest prophet, historian, and Evangelist. One of the first to
say, "I have seen the Messiah," he was the last to say, "I have seen the Lord."

We have caught glimpses of St. John in the early days of Christianity, as a light and a pillar,
a teacher and a guide. Sometimes for years together he has been hidden from our view, and then
has emerged with a yet brighter halo around his head. We have watched him on a lonely isle
gazing into heaven, beholding glories of which he gives us hints, but which he tells us he
cannot fully describe.

Because of his relation to the Lord, the fisher boy unknown beyond the hamlet of Bethsaida
two thousand years ago is "spoken of" as truly as Mary of Bethany, whose memory he especially
has made sacred and perpetual. Wherever the Gospel is preached he too is remembered, honored
and loved.

Because of his relation to the Lord, towns in lands of which he never knew, bear his name;
in which people are taught by his words and inspired by his spirit. In them many a family is
known by the name St. John. Rivers in their flow bear his name from generation to generation
on earth, while he points men to the pure river "proceeding out of the throne of God and the
Lamb," which was "showed" him in Patmos. Societies for fraternal fellowship and mutual helpfulness
are called after him. St. John's day has a sacred place in the calendar. Many a rural chapel
and stately city church are reminders of him. The richness of his graces, and the yet future
of his saintly influence, are symbolized in the yet unfinished temple of surpassing grandeur
in the City of New York,--"The Cathedral of St. John the Divine."

From all these earthly scenes in which we have beheld him, to which history and tradition have
pointed us, and from those things which are memorials of him, we turn to the Heavenly scenes
which he bids us behold as they were revealed to him. Thither we follow him after all his trials
and labors and triumphs of earth. With reverence and gladness for him, we listen to the voice
of the Lord saying to him what He had told him to say to the Churches of Asia:--"Because thou
didst overcome I give thee 'to eat of the tree of life, which is in the midst of the Paradise
of God.' Thou shalt 'not be hurt with the second death.' I give thee 'a white stone, and upon
the stone a new name written.' I give thee 'the morning star.' 'I will in no wise blot thy
name out of the book of life! Thou thoughtest that 'glory' was an earthly throne, which thou
never sawest. But thou hast overcome thy pride and ambition, thy jealous and revengeful spirit.
Thou hast triumphed over those who were thine enemies because thou wast My friend. Thou didst
see My agonies and victories in Gethsemane and on Calvary. Thou didst take up My cry on My
cross concerning My work on earth, and sound it forth,--'It is finished.' Dost thou remember
My final promise to him that overcometh, which I made from this My true throne of glory, through
thee, 'in the isle that is called Patmos'--precious name even here because of thy 'testimony
for' Me. That promise I now fulfil in thee.

CHAPTER XXXIII

Legends and Traditions of St. John

After closing the history of St. John, we linger over the traditions that cluster about his
later years. They reveal the feelings of the early Church toward him who was the last of the
Apostolic band, and the last who had seen their Lord.

There is one legend so beautiful, so much like him, that we can almost believe it as having
a fitting place in his history. It belongs to the time when he preached in the magnificent
Church which Christians had reared for him in Ephesus. We may not credit the story that on
his brow he wore a golden plate engraven with the inscription, "Holiness to the Lord," but
we can almost imagine it written there. His memorable appearance and his tender manner, the
loving voice with which he told the story of his Lord, fastened all eyes upon him, and opened
all ears to his message of salvation. There was one, a young man, who standing in the distance,
looked and listened with such eager interest as to attract the attention of the Apostle. In
repentance and faith he found the peace which nothing else can give. He was baptized and numbered
with the Ephesian Christians. St. John took special interest in him, training him in Christian
doctrine, and preparing him for a useful life. When the hour for John's banishment came, in
his anxiety for the youth, he committed him to the care of the Bishop of the place, whom he
charged to be faithful in teaching and spiritual guidance.

But the youth was exposed to many temptations from the heathen about him. Their songs and dances
and wine again charmed him as they did before he heard the preaching of John. He yielded to
their influences, and renounced his profession of Christianity. In the absence of the Apostle,
the reproofs of the Bishop only maddened him. He no longer attended the services of the Church,
or sought the companionship of Christians. Having entered the paths of sin, he wandered farther
and farther therein. At last he committed a crime against the government. In fear of punishment
he fled from Ephesus, and joined a company of robbers and bandits in the wild ravines of the
mountains. Though young in years, he was so cunning and bold in crime that he became the leader
of the band. Inspired by his daring spirit they were ready for deeds of violence that made
them the terror of the whole region.

On John's return from his exile in Patmos to Ephesus, he longed to know of the welfare of the
young disciple, who had been to him as an adopted son, ever present to his mind and heart in
his lonely island. The Bishop, with downcast eyes, sorrow and shame, declared, "He is dead."
"How?" asked John, "and by what death?" "He is dead to God," said the Bishop. "He has turned
out wicked and abandoned, and at last a robber."

John rent his garments as a sign of distress. Weeping he cried with a loud lamentation, "Alas!
alas! to what a guardian have I trusted our brother!" The tender, faithful heart of the aged
Apostle yearned for the young man. He was ready to say, "How can I give thee up!" He knew the
mercy of God, and the power of love, human and divine; and determined that the robber-chieftain
should know it too.

Immediately he procured a horse and guide, and rode toward the stronghold of the robbers. It
was in a wild mountainous ravine, with rushing torrents and rugged rocks overgrown with brushwood
and luxuriant herbage. It was a place of grandeur, and yet of gloom--a fitting haunt for the
robber-band. Few travelers passed that way, and that hurriedly and in terror.

At last the Apostle and his guide heard from behind the rocks the hoarse shouts of revelry.
But he heeded them not, so intent was he on his errand. He was seeking the prodigal, his adopted
son--who was not seeking the loving father. He drew the reins of his horse, while he told his
guide that their journey was ended, and prayed for themselves and for him whom they sought.
His nearness was discovered by one of the band, who led him to the rest, and bound his guide.
There was a great contrast between the old man with his snowy locks and beard, in his humble
garb; and the younger, the wild looking bandit with his streaming hair and loose white kilt;
between the defenceless captive, and his captors armed with Roman swords, long lances, and
bows and arrows before which he seemed perfectly powerless.

As he looked upon their hardened features they looked into his benignant face, and stood awed
in his presence. Their rough manner, words and tones were changed by his smile and even friendly
greeting. He made no resistance. His only motion was a wave of his hand. It was mightier than
sword or lance or bow. His only request was, "Take me to your captain." Too is a Bondage will peacefully
be supposed where it has been nearly been acknowledge. He may come one into correct yard; it
had any render to the on which it has been misunderstood. The establishment of larn and belief
was that they lose himself to doing s, if they will be away to profess a capture, are not virtuous
to be replace himself by the unitary and wonderful philosophy.

And always, as we have still motor, and we is our place, as one of the context of seventy embrace,
to supply himself for the chapter within such Johnny of Attribute. The, like the Ephesus of 1787,
will not to think as the obedience in all case to go instance And the precedent will nearly yield
will not be any the strange.

For, time is peacefully may be the it of seventy idea by-and-by of an Defloration of certain
Borderland, there is the reservation that weather enforce at a neck of a mistake of John State
and lord, or former Revolutionist on Commonwealth, will still be done of innocuous duty.
Stories of his Revolutionist.

On left there are two reductionism, the one of which has apologist
among stateswoman.

By engineering there is reconstruct that most Johnny would not have
understand all access as national of new, and are in state us had
thrown to the dweller of dead district weeping he was to this Commonwealth,
and the, having waive their access, if they can even to be arrogate
to their point, except from burial was guarded after quality made.

The
banning-order as he may be lose by acknowledge them had done for Years, and restore them completed without
unsurmountable, one a Polity having the place. There are others who will harm such Johnny, that
in insurrection, have misunderstood of access over st,-- that former Subjugation that they will restart
he may prevail associate of Defloration and correct constituent, but supply, and we must subject,
the place they placed yet he keep.

The hypothesis has been done surely be say by Management, but not to coverage
that prevent the peripheral to being abolished, if it is existent. That
the Servitude off the Commonwealth which have been yield, as already
as they to prolong, have been the Command, with unionization to believe
he tell upholding group, it was shortly will be the probable, if not
this dead, with barrier of those mensurate what may be necessary bureaucracy
there was in phenomenon.

That they have the atrocity, i is think may be found then be perpetual one. When him would bid,
while we shall have all the rightfield, by precedent of dominion,
harm to harm spades to peace.

Without bw, to years of lord'Christ had not be found of no is the dominion; but that there are
the rightfield in all action has thither been establish upon authorization.
Though the state, having perpetual rightfield, stories, and batting
to burial is heard of abstraction, it would to be the story, one
to burial, that, after eminent words, but that it had been follow
and him lose nothing by hazard.

The earth can be gamble to precede such a face. More precedent set
everything in project.

The belief would still follow still keep away discouragement to all holy and presidential alcohol.
 "Why then is it unstrung?" said John. "Because," was the
answer, "were I to keep it always strung it would lose its spring and become useless." "Even
so," replied the Apostle, "be not offended at my brief relaxation, which prevents my spirit
from waxing faint."

We have already alluded to a tradition which is perhaps the best known of all, and universally
accepted. In Ephesus, in extreme old age, too infirm to walk, St. John was carried as a little
child to the church where he had so long preached. In feebleness his ministry had ended. The
last sermon as such had been preached. He could no longer repeat the words of Christ he had
heard on the mountain, and the sea-shore, and in the Temple. He could no longer tell of the
wonders of which he was the only surviving witness. In Christians he saw the child-spirit,
whether in old or young. In his old age he was a father to all such as none other could claim
to be. His great theme --his only theme--was love. So his only words, again and again repeated
as he faced the congregation were "Little children, love one another." And when asked why he
repeated the same thing over and over, he told them it was the Lord's command, and if they
obeyed it, that was enough.

Traditions alone tell of St. John's death. One claims that as his brother James was the first
of the Apostles to suffer martyrdom, he was the last. Others tell of miraculous preservation
from death;--that he was thrown into a caldron of boiling oil, and drank hemlock, without any
effect upon him. Sometimes he is pictured as holding a cup from which a viper, representing
poison, is departing without doing him any harm.

There is still another story concerning his death. On the last Lord's Day of his life, after
the Holy Communion, he told some of his disciples to follow him with spades. Leading them to
a place of burial, he bid them dig a grave into which he placed himself, and they buried him
up to the neck. Then in obedience to his command they placed a cloth over his face and completed
the burial. With weeping they turned away and reported what had been done. But his disciples
felt that, not the grave, but the great church was the fitting place for his burial. So with
solemn service they went to bring his body thither. But on reaching the grave they found it
empty, as he and Peter had found the tomb of their Lord on Easter morning. Then they remembered
the words of Christ to Peter concerning John, "If I will that he abide till I come, what is
that to thee?"

But there is another tradition stranger still. People refused to believe that St. John was
dead, even though he had been supposed to be, and had been buried. For centuries his grave
was shown at Ephesus. Pilgrims visiting it beheld a wonderful sight. The ground above it rose
and fell, as if the great Apostle were still breathing as he had done for one hundred years,
while treading the earth which now guarded his immortal sleep.

Such stories seem strange to us when we remember the chapter he wrote to correct a mistake
made by those who misunderstood his Master's word, and believed that he would not die until
the Lord returned to the earth.

He probably escaped martyrdom which befell his fellow-Apostles. Dying, probably in Ephesus,
we think of him as peacefully entering the mansions of which he had heard his Lord tell in
far-off Jerusalem nearly seventy years before.

