She never saw a boat, or water, or the world, till now--I could swear it. She came into the
boat with me, and sat astern, clinging for dear life to the gunwale by her finger-nails, and
I paddled the eight hundred yards to the Speranza, and she came up to the deck after me. When
she saw the open water, the boat, the yalis on the coast, and then the ship, astonishment was
imprinted on her face. But she appears to know little fear. She smiled like a child, and on
the ship touched this and that, as if each were a living thing.

It was only here and there that one could see the ivory-brown colour of her skin: the rest
was covered with dirt, like old bottles long lying in cellars.

By the time we reached the Speranza, the rain suddenly stopped: I went down to my cabin to
change my clothes, and had to shut the door in her face to keep her out. When I opened it,
she was there, and she followed me to the windlass, when I went to set the anchor-engine going.
I intended, I suppose, to take her to Imbros, where she might live in one of the broken-down
houses of the village. But when the anchor was not yet half up, I stopped the engine, and let
the chain run again. For I said, 'No, I will be alone, I am not a child.'

I knew that she was hungry by the look in her eyes: but I cared nothing for that. I was hungry,
too: and that was all I cared about.

I would not let her be there with me another instant. I got down into the boat, and when she
followed, I rowed her back all the way past Foundoucli and the Tophana quay to where one turns
into the Golden Horn by St. Sophia, around the mouth of the Horn being a vast semicircle of
charred wreckage, carried out by the river-currents. I went up the steps on the Galata side
before one comes to where the barge-bridge was. When she had followed me on to the embankment,
I walked up one of those rising streets, very encumbered now with stone-débris and ashes, but
still marked by some standing black wall-fragments, it being now not far from night, but the
air as clear and washed as the translucency of a great purple diamond with the rain and the
afterglow of the sun, and all the west aflame.

When I was about a hundred yards up in this old mixed quarter of Greeks, Turks, Jews, Italians,
Albanians, and noise and cafedjis and wine-bibbing, having turned two corners, I suddenly gathered
my skirts, spun round, and, as fast as I could, was off at a heavy trot back to the quay. She
was after me, but being taken by surprise, I suppose, was distanced a little at first. However,
by the time I could scurry myself down into the boat, she was so near, that she only saved
herself from the water by a balancing stoppage at the brink, as I pushed off. I then set out
to get back to the ship, muttering: 'You can have Turkey, if you like, and I will keep the
rest of the world.'

I rowed sea-ward, my face toward her, but steadily averted, for I would not look her way to
see what she was doing. However, as I turned the point of the quay, where the open sea washes
quite rough and loud, to go northward and disappear from her, I heard a babbling cry--the first
sound which she had uttered. I did look then: and she was still quite near me, for the silly
maniac had been running along the embankment, following me.

'Little fool!' I cried out across the water, 'what are you after now?' And, oh my good God,
shall I ever forget that strangeness, that wild strangeness, of my own voice, addressing on
this earth another human soul?

There she stood, whimpering like an abandoned dog after me. I turned the boat, rowed, came
to the first steps, landed, and struck her two stinging slaps, one on each cheek. While she
cowered, surprised no doubt, I took her by the hand, led her back to the boat, landed on the
Stamboul side, and set off, still leading her, my object being to find some sort of possible
edifice near by, not hopelessly burned, in which to leave her: for in all Galata there was
plainly none, and Pera, I thought, was too far to walk to. But it would have been better if
I had gone to Pera, for we had to walk quite three miles from Seraglio Point all along the
city battlements to the Seven-towers, she picking her bare-footed way after me through the
great Sahara of charred stuff, and night now well arrived, and the moon a-drift in the heaven,
making the desolate lonesomeness of the ruins tenfold desolate, so that my heart smote me then
with bitterness and remorse, and I had a vision of myself that night which I will not put down
on paper. At last, however, pretty late in the evening, I spied a large mansion with green
lattice-work façade, and shaknisier, and terrace-roof, which had been hidden from me by the
arcades of a bazaar, a vast open space at about the centre of Stamboul, one of the largest
of the bazaars, I should think, in the middle of which stood the mansion, probably the home
of pasha or vizier: for it had a very distinguished look in that place. It seemed very little
hurt, though the vegetation that had apparently choked the great open space was singed to a
black fluff, among which lay thousands of calcined bones of man, horse, ass, and camel, for
all was distinct in the bright, yet so pensive and forlorn, moonlight, which was that Eastern
moonlight of pure astral mystery which illumines Persepolis, and Babylon, and ruined cities
of the old Anakim.

The house, I knew, would contain divans, yatags, cushions, foods, wines, sherbets, henna, saffron,
mastic, raki, haschish, costumes, and a hundred luxuries still good. There was an outer wall,
but the foliage over it had been singed away, and the gate all charred. It gave way at a push
from my palm. The girl was close behind me. I next threw open a little green lattice-door in
the façade under the shaknisier, and entered. Here it was dark, and the moment that she, too,
was within, I slipped out quickly, slammed the door in her face, and hooked it upon her by
a little hook over the latch.

I now walked some yards beyond the court, then stopped, listening for her expected cry: but
all was still: five minutes--ten--I waited: but no sound. I then continued my morose and melancholy
way, hollow with hunger, intending to start that night for Imbros.

But this time I had hardly advanced twenty steps, when I heard a frail and strangled cry, apparently
in mid-air behind me, and glancing, saw the creature lying at the gateway, a white thing in
black stubble-ashes. She had evidently jumped, well outward, from a small casement of lattice
on a level with the little shaknisier grating, through which once peeped bright eyes, thirty
feet aloft.

I hardly believe that she was conscious of any danger in jumping, for all the laws of life
are new to her, and, having sought and found the opening, she may have merely come with blind
instinctiveness after me, taking the first way open to her. I walked back, pulled at her arm,
and found that she could not stand. Her face was screwed with silent pain--she did not moan.
Her left foot, I could see, was bleeding: and by the wounded ankle I took her, and dragged
her so through the ashes across the narrow court, and tossed her like a little dog with all
my force within the door, cursing her.

Now I would not go back the long way to the ship, but struck a match, and went lighting up
girandoles, cressets, candelabra, into a confusion of lights among great numbers of pale-tinted
pillars, rose and azure, with verd-antique, olive, and Portoro marble, and serpentine. The
mansion was large, I having to traverse quite a desert of embroidered brocade-hangings, slender
columns, and Broussa silks, till I saw a stair-case doorway behind a Smyrna portière, went
up, and wandered some time in a house of gilt-barred windows, with very little furniture, but
palatial spaces, solitary huge pieces of faïence of inestimable age, and arms, my footfalls
quite stifled in the Persian carpeting. I passed through a covered-in hanging-gallery, with
one window-grating overlooking an inner court, and by this entered the harem, which declared
itself by a greater luxury, bric-à-bracerie, and profusion of manner. Here, descending a short
curved stair behind a portière, I came into a marble-paved sort of larder, in which was an
old negress in blue dress, her hair still adhering, and an infinite supply of sweetmeats, French
preserved foods, sherbets, wines, and so on. I put a number of things into a pannier, went
up again, found some of those exquisite pale cigarettes which drunken in the hollow of an emerald,
also a jewelled two-yard-long chibouque, and tembaki: and with all descended by another stair,
and laid them on the steps of a little raised kiosk of green marble in a corner of the court;
went up again, and brought down a still-snowy yatag to sleep on; and there, by the kiosk-step,
ate and passed the night, smoking for several hours in a state of languor. In the centre of
the court is a square marble well, looking white through a rankness of wild vine, acacias in
flower, weeds, jasmines, and roses, which overgrew it, as well as the kiosk and the whole court,
climbing even the four-square arcade of Moorish arches round the open space, under one of which
I had deposited a long lantern of crimson silk: for here no breath of the fire had come. About
two in morning I fell to sleep, a deeper peace of shadow now reigning where so long the melancholy
silver of the moon had lingered.

       *       *       *       *       *

About eight in the morning I rose and made my way to the front, intending that that should
be my last night in this ruined place: for all the night, sleeping and waking, the thing which
had happened filled my brain, growing from one depth of incredibility to a deeper, so that
at last I arrived at a sort of certainty that it could be nothing but a drunken dream: but
as I opened my eyes afresh, the deep-cutting realisation of that impossibility smote like a
pang of lightning-stroke through my being: and I said: 'I will go again to the far Orient,
and forget': and I started out from the court, not knowing what had become of her during the
night, till, having reached the outer chamber, with a wild start I saw her lying there at the
door in the very spot where I had flung her, asleep sideways, head on arm ... Softly, softly,
I stept over her, got out, and went running at a cautious clandestine trot. The morning was
in high fête, most fresh and pure, and to breathe was to be young, and to see such a sunlight
lighten even upon ruin so vast was to be blithe. After running two hundred yards to one of
the great broken bazaar-portals, I looked back to see if I was followed: but all that space
was desolately empty. I then walked on past the arch, on which a green oblong, once inscribed,
as usual, with some text in gilt hieroglyphs, is still discernible; and, emerging, saw the
great panorama of destruction, a few vast standing walls, with hollow Oriental windows framing
deep sky beyond, and here and there a pillar, or half-minaret, and down within the walls of
the old Seraglio still some leafless, branchless trunks, and in Eyoub and Phanar leafless forests,
and on the northern horizon Pera with the steep upper-half of the Iani-Chircha street still
there, and on the height the European houses, and all between blackness, stones, a rolling
landscape of ravine, like the hilly pack-ice of the North if its snow were ink, and to the
right Scutari, black, laid low, with its vast region of tombs, and rare stumps of its forests,
and the blithe blue sea, with the widening semicircle of floating débris, looking like brown
foul scum at some points, congested before the bridgeless Golden Horn: for I stood pretty high
in the centre of Stamboul somewhere in the region of the Suleimanieh, or of Sultan-Selim, as
I judged, with immense purviews into abstract distances and mirage. And to me it seemed too
vast, too lonesome, and after advancing a few hundred yards beyond the bazaar, I turned again.

       *       *       *       *       *

I found the girl still asleep at the house-door, and stirring her with my foot, woke her. She
leapt up with a start of surprise, and a remarkable sinuous agility, and gazed an astounded
moment at me, till, separating reality from dream and habit, she realised me: but immediately
subsided to the floor again, being in evident pain. I pulled her up, and made her limp after
me through several halls to the inner court, and the well, where I set her upon the weedy margin,
took her foot in my lap, examined it, drew water, washed it, and bandaged it with a strip torn
from my caftan-hem, now and again speaking gruffly to her, so that she might no more follow me.

After this, I had breakfast by the kiosk-steps, and when I was finished, put a mass of truffled
foie gras on a plate, brushed through the thicket to the well, and gave it her. She took it,
but looked foolish, not eating. I then, with my forefinger, put a little into her mouth, whereupon
she set hungrily to eat it all. I also gave her some ginger-bread, a handful of bonbons, some
Krishnu wine, and some anisette.

I then started out afresh, gruffly bidding her stay there, and left her sitting on the well,
her hair falling down the opening, she peering after me through the bushes. But I had not half
reached the ogival bazaar-portal, when looking anxiously back, I saw that she was limping after
me. So that this creature tracks me in the manner of a nutshell following about in the wake
of a ship.

I turned back with her to the house, for it was necessary that I should plan some further method
of eluding her. That was five days ago, and here I have stayed: for the house and court are
sufficiently agreeable, and form a museum of real objets d'art. It is settled, however, that
to-morrow I return to Imbros.

       *       *       *       *       *

It seems certain that she never wore, saw, nor knew of, clothes.

I have dressed her, first sousing her thoroughly with sponge and soap in luke-warm rose-water
in the silver cistern of the harem-bath, which is a circular marbled apartment with a fountain
and the complicated ceilings of these houses, and frescoes, and gilt texts of the Koran on
the walls, and pale rose-silk hangings. On the divan I had heaped a number of selected garments,
and having shewed her how to towel herself, I made her step into a pair of the trousers called
shintiyan made of yellow-striped white-silk; this, by a running string, I tied loosely round
the upper part of her hips; then, drawing up the bottoms to her knees, tied them there, so
that their voluminous baggy folds, overhanging still to the ankles, have rather the look of
a skirt; over this I put upon her a blue-striped chiffon chemise, or quamis, reaching a little
below the hips; I then put on a short jacket or vest of scarlet satin, thickly embroidered
in gold and precious stones, reaching somewhat below the waist, and pretty tight-fitting; and,
making her lie on the couch, I put upon her little feet little yellow baboosh-slippers, then
anklets, on her fingers rings, round her neck a necklace of sequins, finally dyeing her nails,
which I cut, with henna. There remained her head, but with this I would have nothing to do,
only pointing to the tarboosh which I had brought, to a square kerchief, to some corals, and
to the fresco of a woman on the wall, which, if she chose, she might copy. Lastly, I pierced
her ears with the silver needles which they used here: and after two hours of it left her.

