THROUGH THE FRAY

A TALE OF THE LUDDITE RIOTS

By G. A. Henty

PREFACE

My Dear Lads:

The beginning of the present century, glorious as it was for British arms abroad, was a dark
time to those who lived by their daily labor at home. The heavy taxation entailed by the war,
the injury to trade, and the enormous prices of food, all pressed heavily upon the working
classes. The invention of improved machinery, vast as has been the increase of trade which
it has brought about, at first pressed heavily upon the hand workers, who assigned all their
distress to the new inventions. Hence a movement arose, which did much damage and for a time
threatened to be extremely formidable. It had its ramifications through all the manufacturing
districts of England, the object being the destruction of the machinery, and a return to the
old methods of work. The troubles which occurred in various parts of the country were known
as the Luddite Riots, and the secret body which organized them was called King or General Lud.
In the present story I have endeavored to give you an idea of the state of things which prevailed
in Yorkshire, where, among the croppers and others employed in the woolen manufactures, was
one of the most formidable branches of the secret association. The incidents of the murder
of Mr. Horsfall and the attack upon Mr. Cartwright's mill are strictly accurate in all their
details.

In this story I have left the historical battlefields, across so many of which I have taken
you, and have endeavored to show that there are peaceful battles to be fought and victories
to be won every jot as arduous and as difficult as those contested under arms. In "Facing Death"
my hero won such a battle. He had to fight against external circumstances, and step by step,
by perseverance, pluck, and determination, made his way in life. In the present tale my hero's
enemy was within, and although his victory was at last achieved the victor was well nigh worsted
in the fray. We have all such battles to fight, dear lads; may we all come unscathed and victorious
through the fray!

Yours sincerely,

G. A. Henty

CHAPTER I: A FISHING EXPEDITION

It has just struck one, and the boys are streaming out from the schoolroom of Mr. Hathorn's
academy in the little town of Marsden in Yorkshire. Their appearance would create some astonishment
in the minds of lads of the present generation, for it was the year 1807, and their attire
differed somewhat materially from that now worn. They were for the most part dressed in breeches
tight at the knee, and buttoning up outside the close fitting jacket nearly under the arms,
so that they seemed almost devoid of waist. At the present moment they were bareheaded; but
when they went beyond the precincts of the school they wore stiff caps, flat and very large
at the top, and with far projecting peaks.

They were not altogether a happy looking set of boys, and many of their cheeks were stained
with tears and begrimed with dirt from the knuckles which had been used to wipe them away;
for there was in the year 1807 but one known method of instilling instruction into the youthful
mind, namely, the cane, and one of the chief qualifications of a schoolmaster was to be able
to hit hard and sharp.

Mr. Hathorn, judged by this standard, stood very high in his profession; his cane seemed to
whiz through the air, so rapidly and strongly did it descend, and he had the knack of finding
out tender places, and of hitting them unerringly.

Any one passing in front of the schoolhouse during the hours when the boys were at their lessons
would be almost sure to hear the sharp cracks of the cane, followed sometimes by dead silence,
when the recipient of the blows was of a sturdy and Spartan disposition, but more frequently
by shrieks and cries.

That Hathorn's boys hated their master was almost a matter of course. At the same time they
were far from regarding him as an exceptional monster of cruelty, for they knew from their
friends that flogging prevailed almost everywhere, and accepted it as a necessary portion of
the woes of boyhood. Indeed, in some respects, when not smarting under the infliction, they
were inclined to believe that their lot was, in comparison with that of others, a fortunate
one; for whereas in many schools the diet was so poor and bad that the boys were half starved,
at Hathorn's if their food was simple and coarse it was at least wholesome and abundant.

Mr. Hathorn, in fact, intended, and as he quite believed with success, to do his duty by his
boys. They were sent to him to be taught, and he taught them through the medium then recognized
as most fitting for the purpose--the cane; while, as far as an abundance of porridge for breakfast,
and of heavy pudding at dinner, with twice a week an allowance of meat, the boys were unstinted.
He would indeed point with pride to his pupils when their parents assembled at the annual presentation
of prizes.

"Look at them!" he would say proudly. "None of your half starved skeletons here--well filled
out and in good condition every boy of them--no stint of porridge here. It keeps them in good
health and improves their learning; for, mark you, a plump boy feels the cane twice as much
as a skinny one; it stings, my dear sir, it stings, and leaves its mark; whereas there is no
getting at a boy whose clothes hang like bags about him."

This was no doubt true, and the boys themselves were conscious of it, and many had been the
stern resolutions made while smarting in agony that henceforward food should be eschewed, or
taken only in sufficient quantities to keep life together. But boys' appetites are stronger
than boys' resolutions, and in the end there was never any marked falling off in the consumption
of viands at Hathorn's.

Like other things punishment fails when administered in excess. There was no disgrace whatever
in what was common to all, for although some of the boys of superior ability and perseverance
would escape with a smaller amount of punishment than their fellows, none could hope to escape
altogether. Thus it was only the pain that they had to bear, and even this became to some extent
deadened by repetition, and was forgotten as soon as inflicted, save when a sudden movement
caused a sharp pain in back or leg. Once in the playground their spirits revived, and except
a few whose recent punishment incapacitated them for a time from active exercise, the whole
were soon intent upon their games.

One only of the party wore his cap, and he after a few minutes left the others, and went toward
a door which led from the playground into the road.

"Don't be long, Sankey; come back as soon as you can, you know we agreed to go fishing this
afternoon."

"All right, Tompkins; I will come back directly I have done my dinner. I expect I shall have
finished quite as soon as you will."

Edward Sankey, who was regarded with envy by his schoolfellows, was the only home boarder at
Hathorn's; for, as a general thing, the master set his face against the introduction of home
boarders. They were, he considered, an element of disturbance; they carry tales to and from
the school; they cause discontent among the other boys, and their parents are in the habit
of protesting and interfering. Not, indeed, that parents in those days considered it in any
way a hardship for their boys to suffer corporal punishment; they had been flogged at school,
and they believed that they had learned their lessons all the better for it. Naturally the
same thing would happen to their sons. Still mothers are apt to be weak and soft hearted, and
therefore Mr. Hathorn objected to home boarders.

He had made an exception in Sankey's case; his father was of a different type to those of the
majority of his boys; he had lost his leg at the battle of Assaye, and had been obliged to
leave the army, and having but small means beyond his pension, had settled near the quiet little
Yorkshire town as a place where he could live more cheaply than in more bustling localities.
He had, when he first came, no acquaintances whatever in the place, and therefore would not
be given to discuss with the parents of other boys the doings in the school. Not that Mr. Hathorn
was afraid of discussion, for he regarded his school as almost perfect of its kind. Still it
was his fixed opinion that discussion was, as a general rule, unadvisable. Therefore, when
Captain Sankey, a few weeks after taking up his residence in the locality, made a proposal
to him that his son should attend his school as a home boarder, Mr. Hathorn acceded to the
proposition, stating frankly his objections, as a rule, to boys of that class.

"I shall not interfere," Captain Sankey said. "Of course boys must be thrashed, and provided
that the punishment is not excessive, and that it is justly administered, I have nothing to
say against it. Boys must be punished, and if you don't flog you have to confine them, and
in my opinion that is far worse for a boy's temper, spirit, and health."

So Ned Sankey went to Hathorn's, and was soon a great favorite there. Just at first he was
regarded as a disobliging fellow because he adhered strictly to a stipulation which Mr. Hathorn
had made, that he should not bring things in from the town for his school fellows. Only once
a week, on the Saturday half holiday, were the boys allowed outside the bounds of the wall
round the playground, and although on Wednesday an old woman was allowed to come into those
precincts to sell fruit, cakes, and sweets, many articles were wanted in the course of the
week, and the boys took it much amiss for a time that Ned refused to act as their messenger;
but he was firm in his refusals. His father had told him not to do so, and his father's word
was law to him; but when the boys saw that in all other respects he was a thoroughly good fellow,
they soon forgave him what they considered his undue punctiliousness, and he became a prime
favorite in the school.

It is due to Mr. Hathorn to say that no fear of interference induced him to mitigate his rule
to thrash when he considered that punishment was necessary, and that Ned received his full
share of the general discipline. He was never known to utter a cry under punishment, for he
was, as his school fellows said admiringly, as hard as nails; and he was, moreover, of a dogged
disposition which would have enabled him, when he had once determined upon a thing, to carry
it through even if it killed him. Mr. Hathorn regarded this quality as obstinacy, the boys
as iron resolution; and while the former did his best to conquer what he regarded as a fault,
the boys encouraged by their admiration what they viewed as a virtue.

At home Ned never spoke of his punishments; and if his father observed a sudden movement which
told of a hidden pain, and would say cheerfully, "What! have you been getting it again, Ned?"
the boy would smile grimly and nod, but no complaint ever passed his lips.

There was no disgrace in being flogged--it was the natural lot of schoolboys; why should he
make a fuss about it? So he held his tongue. But Mr. Hathorn was not altogether wrong. Ned
Sankey was obstinate, but though obstinate he was by no means sulky. When he made up his mind
to do a thing he did it, whether it was to be at the top of his class in order to please his
father, or to set his teeth like iron and let no sound issue from them as Mr. Hathorn's cane
descended on his back.

Ned Sankey was about fourteen years of age. He had a brother and a sister, but between them
and himself was a gap of four years, as some sisters who had been born after him had died in
infancy. Ned adored his father, who was a most kind and genial man, and would have suffered
anything in silence rather than have caused him any troubles or annoyance by complaining to him.

For his mother his feelings were altogether different. She was a kindly and well intentioned
woman, but weak and silly. On leaving school she had gone out to join her father in India.
Captain Sankey had sailed in the same ship and, taken by her pretty face and helpless, dependent
manner, he had fallen in love with her, knowing nothing of her real disposition, and they had
been married upon their arrival at the termination of the voyage. So loyal was his nature that
it is probable Captain Sankey never admitted even to himself that his marriage had been a mistake;
but none of his comrades ever doubted it. His wife turned out one of the most helpless of women.
Under the plea of ill health she had at a very early period of their marriage given up all
attempt to manage the affairs of the household, and her nerves were wholly unequal to the strain
of looking after her children. It was noticeable that though her health was unequal to the
discharge of her duties, she was always well enough to take part in any pleasure or gayety
which might be going on; and as none of the many doctors who attended her were able to discover
any specific ailment, the general opinion was that Mrs. Sankey's ill health was the creation
of her own imagination. This, however, was not wholly the case. She was not strong; and although,
had she made an effort, she would have been able to look after her children like other women,
she had neither the disposition nor the training to make that effort.

Her son regarded her with the sort of pity, not unmingled with contempt, with which young people
full of life and energy are apt to regard those who are weak and ailing without having any
specific disease or malady which would account for their condition.

"All the bothers fall upon father," he would say to himself; "and if mother did but make up
her mind she could take her share in them well enough. There was he walking about for two hours
this evening with little Lucy in his arms, because she had fallen down and hurt herself; and
there was mother lying on the sofa reading that book of poetry, as if nothing that happened
in the house was any affair of hers. She is very nice and very kind, but I do wish she wouldn't
leave everything for father to do. It might have been all very well before he lost his leg,
but I do think she ought to make an effort now."

However, Mrs. Sankey made no effort, nor did her husband ever hint that it would be better
for herself as well as her family if she did so. He accepted the situation as inevitable, and
patiently, and indeed willingly, bore her burden as well as his own.

Fortunately she had in the children's nurse an active and trustworthy woman. Abijah Wolf was
a Yorkshire woman. She had in her youth been engaged to a lad in her native village. In a moment
of drunken folly, a short time before the day fixed for their wedding, he had been persuaded
to enlist. Abijah had waited patiently for him twelve years. Then he had returned a sergeant,
and she had married him and followed him with his regiment, which was that in which Captain
Sankey--at that time a young ensign--served. When the latter's first child was born at Madras
there was a difficulty in obtaining a white nurse, and Mrs. Sankey declared that she would
not trust the child to a native. Inquiries were therefore made in the regiment, and Sergeant
Wolf's wife, who had a great love for children although childless herself, volunteered to fill
the post for a time. A few months afterward Sergeant Wolf was killed in a fight with a marauding
hill tribe. His widow, instead of returning home and living on the little pension to which
she was entitled at his death, remained in the service of the Sankeys, who soon came to regard
her as invaluable.

She was somewhat rough in her ways and sharp with her tongue; but even Mrs. Sankey, who was
often ruffled by her brusque independence, was conscious of her value, and knew that she should
never obtain another servant who would take the trouble of the children so entirely off her
hands. She retained, indeed, her privilege of grumbling, and sometimes complained to her husband
that Abijah's ways were really unbearable. Still she never pressed the point, and Abijah appeared
established as a permanent fixture in the Sankeys' household. She it was who, when, after leaving
the service, Captain Sankey was looking round for a cheap and quiet residence, had recommended
Marsden.

"There is a grand air from the hills," she said, "which will be just the thing for the children.
There's good fishing in the stream for yourself, captain, and you can't get a quieter and cheaper
place in all England. The
other consonants are used only pronouns, verbs, etc. Adjectives belong to both genders. The numbering
system reaches only three. Finally, the pronunciation is very similar to that of the Moximas and Itonama.

The
character of these Indians is as strange as his face and his language,
far from being sociable and full of candor as the Moxos, or cowardly
as the Itonama, is bold by others, entrepreneurial, independent, cold,
concealed, sad, sullen, unsociable, and Yet little squeamish.

Inclined to theft as Itonama, more daring steal so as with the consciousness of being feared by other
nations, to the extreme that to let them get away with sack in their populations. Justice must
meanwhile hacerseles a beautiful garment, its consequence and fidelity, that they have given repeated
tests. But to Despite this, no longer be considered as a wonderful fact, that with such a character
so easily have been subjected to the yoke of the Jesuits.

According to reports I have collected, their customs should be extremely warlike. Had forts
surrounded by ditches, which lived some of the nation, operating from there incursions into the
territory of its neighbors, Itenes, the Cayuvava and Itonama: latter
were mainly the most persecuted, for being the least countered their
strength.

If we give credence to some relationships, the prisoners who fell into the hands of These Indians
were eaten by them in solemn feasts. Mainly dedicated to fishing and to the game, neglected agriculture,
its industry consisted only in the construction canoes and the manufacture of weapons were
much given to drink and they made use of liquor fermented. Vestíanse just as other nations
in the province.

Noticing in particular the fast rigorous customs of eight days which required girls entering the
marriageable age, and rejoicing and celebrating libation then this happy event. The fear that
they inspired an evil genius named Yinijama, was the main base of
their religion.

As to the skin, shapes and height, Canichana not deviate from the Moxos: for With regard to
customs and to the face, they seem rather to the Toba and Mbocobis
of Chaco.

The singularities of language puts them in parallel with and Chiquiteños Moxos. I, finally,
that belong to the branch moxeño Canichana but that is an anomaly the more strange, since they
are surrounded by people who meet a remarkable character uniformity in all its physical connections.

NATION
OF CAPTURE.

By the time of the conquest of the province of Moxos, inhabited the
plains Movimas west of the Mamore, on the banks of Yacuma, as 14 degrees
latitude south, and between 68 and 69 west of Paris.

They were still divided in many villages located on the banks of
rivers, and were neighbors to the south and southwest to the Moxos,
towards the east to the Canichana, and north to the Cayuvava, separating
them from those nations floodplain forests and spacious.

The complexion of the Movimas is identical to that of the Moxos.

Their average height is five feet and two and a half inches, they are usually arrogant presence,
both men and the women, there are girls of sixteen to seventeen over
can compete with men in strength and bravery.

The ordinary height of wives is five feet, thus far superior to the
proportion that should save with men.

The shapes of the Movimas are at least as robust as those of Moxos, and entirely the same as to
the details, with the only difference being that the women involved something from those of
men.

The features of his face, filled with more sweetness, also the similar to those Indians, there
is however a large number of women, who not only have a manly, but no such delicate features that
characterize the male of this nation, usually the Movimas nose is a bit wider than that of
the Moxos.

The language of the Movimas, but different from the others in the
province on the merits, looks like a lot, the hardness of their sounds
and the difficulty of their pronunciation, that of Canichana and Itonama,
with maybe even harder than these.

Is also in the composition of their words many consonants together as tch, ch, chl, jn, jl,
jr, LJ and ts, which produce sounds very harsh, almost all the voices end in a vowel, the very few that
deviate from the rule, ending in the consonants l, n, w, p, s, ch ch French and Spanish. Often
used the Spanish j, or nasal and the f are unknown. For the rest, language does not offer this
apparent anomaly: the adjectives fit to both genders. The numbering system is no more than
four, nor have any relation with the number of fingers.

The nature of the Movimas, that all seems to of Moxos, is animated by an excessive goodness
and more pronounced instinct of sociability.

Judging from their current way of living, customs should be also identical to those of Moxos,
consisting of their occupations in fishing, sailing, hunting and agriculture. Its industry, its
governmental system and likens religion to the nation even mentioned. The evil genius, which determined
their misfortunes, was called Caniba Kilmer. Fearing covered with leprosy, these Indians never
killed a snake, and those widowed were kept well to kill a leopard, persuaded that if they
did, they too succumb.

Finally, the total compliance of physical and moral circumstances
that exists between Movimas and Moxos, tear me to believe that both
nations to the same branch, not differentiating but by an entirely
different language, and perhaps by the more or less body strength.

Cayuvava NATION [1]

This nation lived on the west bank of the Mamore, fifteen leagues above the confluence of this
river with Guaporé or Iten, on those plains interspersed with marshes and small boscages that
characterize those fields. Spread over the Cayuvava Vivian small tribes, whose populations
it spread on the banks of that great river, and small tributaries of the western plains [2], between
12 and 13 degrees latitude south, and towards the 68 west longitude from Paris. They had for
neighbors to the south to the Movimas, Itenes to the east, to the Kings Maropas towards the
west, to the Pacaguaras Beni River towards the north, being separated, particularly the latter
two nations, by dilatadísimos deserts [3].

For the complexion, the high carriage of the men, their robust forms, its members burly, his features
regular and graceful, her countenance sweet, Cayuvava resemble Moxos and if your general aspect
is covered with a little more seriously, the rest meet every physical character of this nation.

Cayuvava
language differs from other dialects of the province at the bottom
of the words, as though it has some analogy with Itonama languages,
and Movima Canichana by the roughness of many sounds, however, is
more euphonious.

The complication of sound consonants together too often: the consonants together and dj dx,
prefixed to members, is a bit hard, however, the second consonant sound always remains soft
pronunciation of French or Spanish. Also be warned, among the sounds peculiar to the tongue,
nasal or weakly, the x, to move, the ch and some completions and an ain, the only noticeable at
the end of a limited number of voices, they all invariably end up in a vowel. The guttural sound
of the Spanish j is very common, and the ch of this language, missing only the l in the alphabet
of the language, otherwise free of anomalies. Adjectives adhere to both genders. The counting
system has no relation to the number of fingers, but has a remarkable feature. The numbers, which usually
only unite to the other after ten in the Cayuvava system starts to collect from the six. All American
languages ​​have different names for the units, and have then ten and one, etc.., while Cayuvava
reach up to five only, and go on to say, for six, Carat ribobo (one and five), for the seven,
Mitya ribobo (two and five), and Thus ten, beginning after the tens, and telling all, only up
to one hundred.

The nature of the Cayuvava has a lot of analogy with the Moxos, and it may well be said it is more
noble. In the extreme, courageous, bold "enterprising, industrious, honest and loyal Indian
warriors were those most feared by other nations, their weapons consisted
in the bow and arrows also drove the spear, and marched to battle
organized phalanges captained by special chiefs.

Your religion was founded on the belief of a being protector of all things, called Idaapa, and
an evil genius, author of all evil, called Mainajé. Admitted these Indians the immortality
of the soul, and as Itonama, believed duty to prevent escape death
a dying body, covering her mouth wide and nose.

The men interrupted their Monthly jobs during the indisposition of their wives, and dared not
take anything some while they were widowed.

Despite the language difference, the Cayuvava is too similar to the Moxos in character and other
physical and moral circumstances, that do not belong to the same branch these.

NATION OF ITENE.

This nation seems to have given its name to the river coming down
from this to go and meet with Mamore towards 12 degrees south latitude.

Items which occupied the territory between Itenes and Mamore rivers,
extending his thirty leagues towards the north, from the angle the
reunion of these rivers: the population was composed of small villages
scattered throughout the inland, in the middle of the woods, or on
the banks of streams that drain in the Mamore.

Circumscribed between 12 and 13 degrees south latitude, and longitude 67 and 68 West had for
neighbors to the south to the Canichana, towards the north-west to the Movimas; west to the Cayuvava.

These
were no different from natural and Cayuvava Moxos, his complexion, form and features are completely
identical, would say only that her face is covered with some more seriousness.

The language of the Itenes differs from the other languages ​​of the province and to the merits
the pronunciation, but some words of their dialect and the Chapacuras, whose close analogy is
the effect of chance, I do believe there was once some contact between
these two nations, without which it ceases to notice a marked difference
in their own language.

That of Itenes undoubtedly is the most terse, the sweetest and euphonious language of all Americans,
all words end in a vowel, not is one that contains in its composition
hard consonants.

Guttural sounds and nose are unknown, and the compounds of consonants are only of the union
of b with z French, but not unpleasant to the ear hurt. The letters f, g, j, l, x are totally
strangers. No abnormality observed no nouns, adjectives belong to the same time to the masculine
and feminine. Finally, in all languages the childs is the simplest in their pronunciation, and
the more laconic in their ways, often Broadcast one sound enough to describe an object. The numbering
system reaches only five, and has no relation to the number of fingers.

If the natural character of these bears little resemblance to that of Moxos, bears some resemblance
to that of the Canichana. By other independent and haughty, brave to be reckless, indomitable
warriors, not between them lacked candor and kindness.

Intrepid hunters and fishermen tireless, are both good farmers. These Indians never were cannibals.

Its industry was limited to little.

Sabian protect and painting, but his greatest skill lay in the manufacture of weapons, their
arrows had a bone at the tip very sharp, and were adorned with thousands of curious work. Their
canoes were, like today, very long and narrow, their drinks similar
to those of the other Indians of the province had their faces painted,
and on days gala head adorned with feathers artfully arranged.

In fact, his government was reduced to nothing: the chiefs had no authority, and charge was limited
to captain the hosts who were heading into battle.

All your religion was founded on the fear instilled in them an evil genius named Tumeké.

The physical circumstances of the Itenes are entirely identical to those of the Moxos, their
habits make them similar to Canichana, while his language, the more
soft and sonorous throughout the province, contains, in spite of the
difference in pronunciation, similar voices the language of the Chapacuras.

Finally, Itenes clearly belong to the same branch The Moxos.

NATION OF PACAGUARAS.

The Pacaguaras, who lived at the confluence of the Beni and Mamore river, towards 10 degrees
south latitude and between 67 and 68 west longitude, composing large
populations located within the forests that adorn the banks of these
vault of rivers.

Found out, so to speak, the territory of the province, these Indians
belong to those numerous nations scattered on the banks of the Rio
Madeira, and the Amazon and its tributaries.

Bordered by the south with Itenes and Cayuvava, and only relate to the past.

Her complexion is equal to that of the Moxos, his stature seems smaller, but its forms and factions
meet completely the same characters, but by gravity, breathing her face perhaps Cayuvava more closely
resemble.

If your language is different, in principle, the latter, has however some connections with it, as
regards the pronunciation, and not without its hardness some analogy with Itonama languages,
and Movima Canichana.

There is also the pacaguara complication of consonant sounds together, such as tz, ts, dj,
JN, now with the pronunciation entirely guttural Spanish, now with the soft of the French. Frequently
Encuéntranse ch z and of these, as well as his or nose. Almost every word ending in a vowel,
and only excepting the sounds are made, ending in on, ch an and French, with none of them is hard. The
letters f, lyx is unknown. Adjectives serve at once to the two genres. The numbering system extends
only to ten, and probably agrees the number of fingers.

The nature of Pacaguaras resembles that of the Cayuvava; like this, practice hospitality, and
cherish benevolence, honesty and loyalty, linking to these virtues of fearlessness and courage.

With
respect to customs, there is also between them and a big Moxos compliance.

Constantly engaged in navigation, fishing, hunting and agriculture, remained always peaceful, and avoided
any enmity with their neighbors, living with them in perfect harmony.

Its industry is confined to the tissue of genres for clothing, manufacturing weapons, and the construction
of canoes similar to those of the Moxos.

Their chiefs were regarded as mere advisers, his religion taught them to believe in called Huara
be beneficial, and an evil spirit known under the name of Yochina,
but did not profess a religion without.

In short, it is believed that the positively Pacaguaras belong to
the branch of Moxos on account of the similarity of physical and moral
characteristics.

NATION OF CHAPACURAS [1]

The Chapacuras lived scattered on the banks of the Rio Blanco or Baures, not far from a big lake,
and amid the forests that separate the provinces of Chiquitos and Moxos beyond the last hill of
the first province, and a little more or less to 15 degrees south latitude and between 64 and
65 west longitude meridian of Paris. Had for neighbors (including those not connected by the ex
away) to the Chapacuracas and Paiconecas towards the south, and the
hordes of the tribe of the Baures north.

The complexion of the Chapacuras is tanned or greenish-brown, thus identical to that of the Chiquitos.
His stature has also some analogy with these, the median is five
feet and one-half inches, the highest not exceeding five feet and
five inches.

The wives kept in a relatively large size.

Their body shapes are similar to those of the Chiquitos, but the size of men seems more desvahido,
and although members have a strong build, and no visible muscles, Outgoing chest, broad shoulders,
and his whole body in the extreme, robust, not prone to obesity. The women, better educated
and more graceful than Chiquiteñas, have the hips and broad shoulders,
waist, but according to European proportions, and a feet and hands
were remarkable for their smallness.

His features are also somewhat different: both sexes are, a head large, a broad face, but less crowded
than that of the Chiquitos, bunions of the most delivered a short and slightly curved front, a short
nose, flat but rather wide, and windows wide open, mouth medium, slightly thick lips, small eyes
and horizontal ears small, narrow, arched eyebrows, black hair, long, thin and very stiff nothing.
His face is gloomy and less animated than the Chiquitos. In general, men are ugly, and have
very black beard, sparsely populated and limp, like the bozo: between wives rarely is a regular
face, but why not inspire aversion, meanwhile, the general appearance
of the two sexes captive trust, and all the sweetness in them announces.

Their

language is entirely distinct from the languages ​​of Chiquitos, as to the form of words and although
very hard, is pleasant to the ear: it has many voices in vocal completed, the number of those that
end in single consonants n, m, p, tyj is reduced. The guttural the Spanish j and nasal or are
often. Many consonants, such as b, f, c and x, appear to be completely unknown, and while
the French ch rare, is frequently used Spanish. In this language is seen as in the Chiquiteños,
a particularity relative to the names of body parts, instead principles with a specific letter,
end with a uniform particle, as seen in urutarachi (Darling) taipatachi (ear), tucuchi (eyes),
objects that designate Chiquitos Quitemocas with the words urutaraché, tatiataché and coated. I have
not noticed any distinction between male and feminine adjectives, nor a special form for plurals.
The system numbering, which only reaches to ten, no doubt based on the number of fingers. The tribe
has many terms Quitemocas entirely different from those of the language chapacura, which perhaps
comes from old relationships with any foreign nation.

The Chapacuras, though left by temperament, have them extremely loving
nature, and predisposes them to servile obedience; hospitable to foreigners,
are perhaps Indians most sociable of the province, even without the
joy of the Chiquiteños.

Their habits are similar to those of the natives, and lived like them,
scattered small tribes in the interior of the surrounding forests
on the banks of the Rio Blanco or Baures, seized and hunting, and
cultivating the land, or to build the thatched huts where their families
lived.

Their weapons, neither more nor less than those of the Chiquitos, were composed of bow, arrows,
and a club or two-edged nails. Also built, hollow trees, these canoes that went through the White
River, to go to hunting and fishing, their occupations Favourite after harvest of maize. These
Indians also liked to gather for drink fermented liquors, this being a perpetual plea dances
and games, less animated by the way that the Chiquiteños. Peaceful in the extreme, rarely alienated
their neighbors.

The men were entirely naked, and the more, covered the top of the any skin legs. The women wore
the tipoy, a kind of sleeveless shirt they fell to the ankles. Both sexes were allowed to grow
hair, constantly bañándoselo oil of palm fronds.

They were still ruled by chiefs, meanwhile, whose authority was limited to giving advice and placed himself
at the head of each tribe in the event of war.

When one of his men died, had the precaution of burying it along with their weapons, This proves
that believed in another life: finally, respected the ruling and forecasts of doctors, and
were slaves to endless superstitions.

NATION OF Marope.

The Maropas occupied the great valley of the Beni river at the foot of the wooded hills and wetlands
the last rolling hills of the Bolivian Andes, their populations were
located on Beni course itself, having as neighbors to the south and
Tacanas towards the west, to the Cayuvava Moxos towards the east,
and some savage tribes, little known, towards the north.

The Maropas have little more or less the complexion of the Mocetenes,
perhaps a bit more bronzed, however without the characteristic color
of Moxos. His height does not exceed that of Tacanas, with, usually,
five feet and one inch. I should say the next best thing would be to keep a cloth soaked in cold water
on your face; that will probably take down the swelling to some extent."

After tea Ned repaired to the kitchen, where Abijah, with much scolding and some commiseration,
applied a wet cloth to his face, and fastened a handkerchief over it to keep it in its place.
Then the boy went into the little room which his father called his study, where he used to
read the papers, to follow the doings of the British armies in the field, and above all to
smoke his pipe in quiet. He laughed as Ned entered.

"You look like a wounded hero, indeed, Ned. Now sit down, my boy, and tell me about this business;
not, you know, that I have any objection to your fighting when it's necessary. My experience
is that it is the nature of boys to fight, and it is no use trying to alter boys' nature. As
I have always told you, don't get into a fight if you can help it; but, if you once begin,
fight it out like a man."

"Well, I couldn't help it this time, father, and I will tell you all about it. I promised not
to tell; but what was meant by that was that I should not tell any one who would do anything
about it; and as I know you won't, why, of course I can tell you."

"I don't know what you mean in the least, Ned; a promise, whatever it is about, is a promise."

"I know, father, but all that was meant in my case was that I would say nothing which would
cause injury to those to whom I promised; and it will do them no injury whatever by telling
you in confidence. Besides, it is probable you may learn about it in some other way; because,
unfortunately, I broke the other fellow's leg very badly, and there is no saying what may come
of it, so I think you ought to know all the circumstances."

"Very well, Ned," his father said quietly; "this seems to be a serious business. Go on, my boy."

Ned related the whole circumstances, his father saying no word until he had finished.

"You have been in no way to blame in the matter, nor could you have acted otherwise. The breaking
of the boy's leg is unfortunate, but it was a pure accident, and even the boy's friends did
not blame you in the matter. As to the illegal drilling, that is no new thing; it has been
known to be going on for many months, and, indeed, in some places for years. The authorities
take but little notice of it. An outbreak of these poor fellows would, indeed, constitute a
considerable local danger. Mills might be burned down, and possibly some obnoxious masters
killed, but a few troops of dragoons, or half a regiment of light infantry, would scatter them
like chaff.

"The Irish rebellion thirteen years ago was a vastly more formidable affair. There it may be
said that the whole country was in arms, and the element of religious fanaticism came into
play; but in spite of that the resistance which they opposed to the troops was absolutely contemptible;
however, it is just as well that you did not see them drill, because now, if by any chance
this lad should die, and inquiry were made about it, there would be no occasion for you to
allude to the subject at all. You would be able to say truthfully that finding that he was
hurt, you went off, and happened to come upon four men on the moor and brought them to his
assistance."

"I promised to go up to see the boy, father. I suppose that there is no harm?"

"None at all, Ned, it is only natural that you should entertain the wish; in fact you have
injured him seriously, and we must do all in our power to alleviate his pain. I will go in
the morning and see Dr. Green. I shall, of course, tell him that the boy was hurt in a tussle
with you, and that you are very sorry about it. The fact that he is some two years older, as
you say, and ever so much stronger and bigger, is in itself a proof that you were not likely
to have wantonly provoked a fight with him. I shall ask the doctor if there is anything in
the way of food and comforts I can send up for him."

Accordingly, the next morning, the first thing after breakfast, Captain Sankey went out and
called upon the doctor. Ned awaited his return anxiously.

"The doctor says it's a bad fracture, Ned, a very bad fracture, and the boy must have had his
leg curiously twisted under him for the bone to have snapped in such a way. He questions whether
it will be possible to save the leg; indeed, he would have taken it off last night, but the
boy said he would rather die, and the men were all against it. By the help of half a dozen
men he got the bones into their places again, and has bandaged the leg up with splints; but
he is very doubtful what will come of it."

Ned was crying now.

"I would give anything if it hadn't happened, father, and he really seemed a nice fellow. He
said over and over again he didn't want to hurt us, and I am sure he didn't, only he thought
he oughtn't to let us pass, and as we would go on he had to stop us."

"Well, it can't be helped, Ned," his father said kindly. "It is very natural that you should
be grieved about it; but you see it really was an accident; there was nothing willful or intentional
about it, and you must not take it to heart more than you can help."

But Ned did take it to heart, and for the next fortnight was very miserable. The doctor's reports
during that time were not hopeful. Fever had set in, and for some days the boy was delirious,
and there was no saying how it would turn out. At the end of that time the bulletins became
somewhat more hopeful. The lad was quiet now from the complete exhaustion of his strength.
He might rally or he might not; his leg was going on favorably. No bad symptom had set in,
and it was now purely a question of strength and constitution whether he would pull through it.

Mrs. Sankey had been kept in entire ignorance of the whole matter. She had once or twice expressed
a languid surprise at Ned's altered manner and extreme quietness; but her interest was not
sufficient for her to inquire whether there were any reasons for this change. Abijah had been
taken into Captain Sankey's counsels, and as soon as the fever had abated, and the doctor pronounced
that the most nourishing food was now requisite, she set to work to prepare the strongest broths
and jellies she could make, and these, with bottles of port wine, were taken by her every evening
to the doctor, who carried them up in his gig on his visits to his patient in the morning.
On the third Saturday the doctor told Ned that he considered that the boy had fairly turned
the corner and was on the road to recovery, and that he might now go up and see him. His friends
had expressed their warm gratitude for the supplies which had been sent up, and clearly cherished
no animosity against Ned. The boy had been informed of the extreme anxiety of his young antagonist
as to his condition, and had nodded feebly when asked if he would see Ned should he call upon
him. It was therefore without any feeling of trepidation as to his reception that Ned on the
Saturday afternoon entered Varley.

Varley was a scattered village lying at the very edge of the moor. The houses were built just
where the valley began to dip down from the uplands, the depression being deep enough to shelter
them from the winds which swept across the moor. Some of those which stood lowest were surrounded
by a few stumpy fruit trees in the gardens, but the majority stood bleak and bare. From most
of the houses the sound of the shuttle told that hand weaving was carried on within, and when
the weather was warm women sat at the doors with their spinning wheels. The younger men for
the most part worked as croppers in the factories in Marsden.

In good times Varley had been a flourishing village, that is to say its inhabitants had earned
good wages; but no one passing through the bare and dreary village would have imagined that
it had ever seen good days, for the greater proportion of the earnings had gone in drink, and
the Varley men had a bad name even in a country and at a time when heavy drinking was the rule
rather than the exception. But whatever good times it may have had they were gone now. Wages
had fallen greatly and the prices of food risen enormously, and the wolf was at the door of
every cottage. No wonder the men became desperate, and believing that all their sufferings
arose from the introduction of the new machinery, had bound themselves to destroy it whatever
happened.

A woman of whom he inquired for John Swinton's cottage told him that it was the last on the
left. Although he told himself that he had nothing to be afraid of, it needed all Ned's determination
to nerve himself to tap at the door of the low thatched cottage. A young woman opened it.

"If you please," Ned said, "I have come to see Bill; the doctor said he would see me. It was
I who hurt him, but indeed I didn't mean to do it."

"A noice bizness yoi've made of it atween ee," the woman said, but in a not unkind voice. "Who'd
ha' thought as Bill would ha' got hurted by such a little un as thou be'st; but coom in, he
will be main glad to see ee, and thy feyther ha' been very good in sending up all sorts o'
things for him. He's been very nigh agooing whoam, but I believe them things kept un from it."

The cottage contained but two rooms. In a corner of the living room, into which Ned followed
the woman, Bill Swinton lay upon a bed which Captain Sankey had sent up. Ned would not have
known him again, and could scarce believe that the thin, feeble figure was the sturdy, strong
built boy with whom he had struggled on the moor. His eyes filled with tears as he went up
to the bedside.

"I am so sorry!" he said; "I have grieved so all the time you have been ill."

"It's all roight, young un," the boy said in a low voice, "thar's no call vor to fret. It warn't
thy fault; thou couldn't not tell why oi would not let ee pass, and ye were roight enough to
foight rather than to toorn back. I doan't blame ee nohow, and thou stoodst up well agin me.
Oi doan't bear no malice vor a fair foight, not loikely. Thy feyther has been roight good to
oi, and the things he sends oi up has done oi a power o' good. Oi hoap as how they will let
oi eat afore long; oi feels as if oi could hearty, but the doctor he woin't let oi."

"I hope in a few days he will let you," Ned said, "and then I am sure father will send you
up some nice things. I have brought you up some of my books for you to look at the pictures."

The boy looked pleased.

"Oi shall like that," Bill said; "but oi shan't know what they be about."

"But I will come up every Saturday if you will let me, and tell you the stories all about them."

"Willee now? That will be main koinde o' ye."

"I don't think you are strong enough to listen today," Ned said, seeing how feebly the boy
spoke; "but I hope by next Saturday you will be much stronger. And now I will say goodby, for
the doctor said that I must not talk too long."

So saying Ned left the cottage and made his way back to Marsden in better spirits than he had
been for the last three weeks.

From that time Ned went up regularly for some weeks every Saturday to see Bill Swinton, to
the great disgust of his schoolfellows, who could not imagine why he refused to join in their
walks or games on those days; but he was well repaid by the pleasure which his visits afforded.
The days passed very drearily to the sick boy, accustomed as he was to a life spent entirely
in the open air, and he looked forward with eager longing to Ned's visits.

On the occasion of the second visit he was strong enough to sit up in bed, and Ned was pleased
to hear that his voice was heartier and stronger. He listened with delight as Ned read through
the books he had brought him from end to end, often stopping him to ask questions as to the
many matters beyond his understanding, and the conversations on these points were often so
long that the continuance of the reading had to be postponed until the next visit. To Bill
everything he heard was wonderful. Hitherto his world had ended at Marsden, and the accounts
of voyages and travels in strange lands were full of surprise and interest to him. Especially
he loved to talk to Ned of India, where the boy had lived up to the time when his father had
received his wound, and Ned's account of the appearance and manners of the people there were
even more interesting to him than books.

At the end of two months after Ned's first visit Bill was able to walk about with a stick,
and Ned now discontinued his regular visits; but whenever he had a Saturday on which there
was no particular engagement he would go for a chat with Bill, for a strong friendship had
now sprung up between the lads.

On Ned's side the feeling consisted partly of regret for the pain and injury he had inflicted
upon his companion, partly in real liking for the honesty and fearlessness which marked the
boy's character. On Bill's side the feeling was one of intense gratitude for the kindness and
attention which Ned had paid him, for his giving up his play hours to his amusement, and the
pains which he had taken to lighten the dreary time of his confinement. Added to this there
was a deep admiration for the superior knowledge of his friend.

"There was nothing," he often said to himself, "as oi wouldn't do for that young un."

CHAPTER III: A CROPPER VILLAGE

Bad as were times in Varley, the two public houses, one of which stood at either end of the
village, were for the most part well filled of an evening; but this, as the landlords knew
to their cost, was the result rather of habit than of thirst. The orders given were few and
far between, and the mugs stood empty on the table for a long time before being refilled. In
point of numbers the patrons of the "Brown Cow" and the "Spotted Dog" were not unequal; but
the "Dog" did a larger trade than its rival, for it was the resort of the younger men, while
the "Cow" was the meeting place of the elders. A man who had neither wife nor child to support
could manage even in these hard times to pay for his quart or two of liquor of an evening;
but a pint mug was the utmost that those who had other mouths than their own to fill could afford.

Fortunately tobacco, although dear enough if purchased in the towns, cost comparatively little
upon the moors, for scarce a week passed but some lugger ran in at night to some little bay
among the cliffs on the eastern shore, and for the most part landed her bales and kegs in spite
of the vigilance of the coast guard. So there were plenty of places scattered all over the
moorland where tobacco could be bought cheap, and where when the right signal was given a noggin
of spirits could be had from the keg which was lying concealed in the wood stack or rubbish
heap. What drunkenness there was on the moors profited his majesty's excise but little.

The evenings at the "Cow" were not lively. The men smoked their long pipes and sipped their
beer slowly, and sometimes for half an hour no one spoke; but it was as good as conversation,
for every one knew what the rest were thinking of--the bad times, but no one had anything new
to say about them. They were not brilliant, these sturdy Yorkshiremen. They suffered patiently
and uncomplainingly, because they did not see that any effort of theirs could alter the state
of things. They accepted the fact that the high prices were due to the war, but why the war
was always going on was more than any of them knew. It gave them a vague satisfaction when
they heard that a British victory had been won; and when money had been more plentiful, the
occasion had been a good excuse for an extra bout of drinking, for most of them were croppers,
and had in their time been as rough and as wild as the younger men were now; but they had learned
a certain amount of wisdom, and shook their heads over the talk and doings of the younger men
who met at the "Dog."

Here there was neither quiet nor resignation, but fiery talk and stern determination; it was
a settled thing here that the machines were responsible for the bad times. The fact that such
times prevailed over the whole country in no way affected their opinion. It was not for them
to deny that there was a war, that food was dear, and taxation heavy. These things might be;
but the effect of the machinery came straight home to them, and they were convinced that if
they did but hold together and wreck the machines prosperity would return to Varley.

The organization for resistance was extensive. There were branches in every village in West
Yorkshire, Lancashire, Nottingham, and Derby--all acting with a common purpose. The members
were bound by terrible oaths upon joining the society to be true to its objects, to abstain
on pain of death from any word which might betray its secrets, and to carry into execution
its orders, even if these should involve the slaying of a near relation proved to have turned
traitor to the society.

Hitherto no very marked success had attended its doings. There had been isolated riots in many
places; mills had been burned, and machinery broken. But the members looked forward to better
things. So far their only successes had been obtained by threats rather than deeds, for many
manufacturers had been deterred from adopting the new machinery by the receipt of threatening
letters signed "King Lud," saying that their factories would be burned and themselves shot
should they venture upon altering their machinery.

The organ of communication between the members of the society at Varley and those in other
villages was the blacksmith, or as he preferred to be called, the minister, John Stukeley,
who on weekdays worked at the forge next door to the "Spotted Dog," and on Sundays held services
in "Little Bethel"--a tiny meeting house standing back from the road.

Had John Stukeley been busier during the week he would have had less time to devote to the
cause of "King Lud;" but for many hours a day his fire was banked up, for except to make repairs
in any of the frames which had got out of order, or to put on a shoe which a horse had cast
on his way up the hill from Marsden, there was but little employment for him.

The man was not a Yorkshireman by birth, but came from Liverpool, and his small, spare figure
contrasted strongly with those of the tall, square built Yorkshiremen, among whom he lived.

He was a good workman, but his nervous irritability, his self assertion, and impatience of
orders had lost him so many places that he had finally determined to become his own master,
and, coming into a few pounds at the death of his father, had wandered away from the great
towns, until finding in Varley a village without a smith, he had established himself there,
and having adopted the grievances of the men as his own, had speedily become a leading figure
among them.

A short time after his arrival the old man who had officiated at Little Bethel had died, and
Stukeley, who had from the first taken a prominent part in the service, and who possessed the
faculty of fluent speech to a degree rare among the Yorkshiremen, was installed as his successor,
and soon filled Little Bethel as it had never been filled before. In his predecessor's time,
small as the meeting house was, it had been comparatively empty; two or three men, half a dozen
women, and their children being the only attendants, but it was now filled to crowding.

Stukeley's religion was political; his prayers and discourses related to the position of affairs
in Varley rather than to Christianity. They were a downtrodden people whom he implored to burst
the bonds of their Egyptian taskmasters. The strength he prayed for was the strength to struggle
and to fight. The enemy he denounced was the capitalist rather than the devil.

Up to that time "King Lud" had but few followers in Varley; but the fiery discourses in Little
Bethel roused among the younger men a passionate desire to right their alleged wrongs, and
to take vengeance upon those denounced as their oppressors, so the society recruited its numbers
fast. Stukeley was appointed the local secretary, partly because he was the leading spirit,
partly because he alone among its members was able to write, and under his vigorous impulsion
Varley became one of the leading centers of the organization in West Yorkshire.

It was on a Saturday evening soon after Bill Swinton had become convalescent. The parlor of
the "Brown Cow" was filled with its usual gathering; a peat fire glowed upon the hearth, and
two tallow candles burned somewhat faintly in the dense smoke. Mugs of beer stood on the tables,
but they were seldom applied to the lips of the smokers, for they had to do service without
being refilled through the long evening. The silence was broken only by the short puffs at
the pipes. All were thinking over the usual topic, when old Gideon Jones unexpectedly led their
ideas into another channel.

"Oive heern," he said slowly, taking his pipe from his mouth, "as how Nance Wilson's little
gal is wuss."

"Ay, indeed!"

"So oi've heern;"

"Be she now?" and various other exclamations arose from the smokers.

Gideon was pleased with the effect he had produced, and a few minutes later continued the subject.

"It be the empty coopbud more nor illness, I expect."

There was another chorus of assent, and a still heartier one when he wound up the subject:
"These be hard toimes surely."

Thinking that he had now done sufficient to vindicate his standing as one of the original thinkers
of the village, Gideon relapsed into silence and smoked away gravely, with his eyes fixed on
the fire, in the post of honor on one side of which was his regular seat. The subject, however,
was too valuable to be allowed to drop altogether, and Luke Marner brought it into prominence
again by remarking:

"They tell oi as how Nance has asked Bet Collins to watch by the rood soide to catch doctor
as he droives whoam. He went out this arternoon to Retlow."

"Oi doubt he woant do she much good; it be food, and not doctor's stuff as the child needs,"
another remarked.

"That be so, surely," went up in a general chorus, and then a newcomer who had just entered
the room said:

"Oi ha' joost coom vrom Nance's and Bill Swinton ha' sent in a basin o' soup as he got vrom
the feyther o' that boy as broke his leg. Nance war a feeding the child wi' it, and maybe it
will do her good. He ha' been moighty koind to Bill, that chap hav."

"He ha' been that," Gideon said, after the chorus of approval had died away.

"Oi seed t' young un today a-sitting in front o' th' cottage, a-talking and laughing wi' Bill."

"They be good uns, feyther and son, though they tells oi as neither on them bain't Yaarkshire."

The general feeling among the company was evidently one of surprise that any good thing should
be found outside Yorkshire. But further talk on the subject was interrupted by a slight exclamation
at the door.

"O what a smoke, feyther! I can't see you, but I suppose you're somewhere here. You're wanted
at home."

Although the speaker was visible to but few in the room there was no doubt as to her identity,
or as to the person addressed as feyther. Mary Powlett was indeed the niece and not the daughter
of Luke Marner, but as he had brought her up from childhood she looked upon him as her father.
It was her accent and the tone of her voice which rendered it unnecessary for any of those
present to see her face.

Luke was a bachelor when the child had arrived fifteen years before in the carrier's cart from
Marsden, having made the journey in a similar conveyance to that town from Sheffield, where
her father and mother had died within a week of each other, the last request of her mother
being that little Polly should be sent off to the care of Luke Marner at Varley.

Luke had not then settled down into the position of one of the elders of the village, and he
had been somewhat embarrassed by the arrival of the three year old girl. He decided promptly,
however, upon quitting the lodgings which he had as a single man occupied and taking a cottage
by himself. His neighbors urged upon him that so small a child could not remain alone all day
while he was away at Marsden at work--a proposition to which he assented; but to the surprise
of every one, instead of placing her during the day under the care of one of the women of the
place, he took her down with him to Marsden and placed her under the care of a respectable
woman there who had children of her own.

Starting at five every morning from his cottage with Polly perched on his shoulder he tramped
down to the town, leaving her there before going to work, and calling for her in the evening.
A year later he married, and the village supposed that Polly would now be left behind. But
they were mistaken. When he became engaged he had said:

"Now, Loiza, there's one point as oi wish settled. As oi have told ye, oi ha' partly chosen
ye becos oi knowed as how ye would maake a good mother to my little Polly; but oi doan't mean
to give up taking her down with me o' days to the town. Oi likes to ha' her wi' me on the roade--it
makes it shorter like. As thou knowest thyself, oi ha' bin a chaanged man sin she coom. There
warn't a cropper in the village drank harder nor oi, but oi maad oop moi moind when she came
to gi' it up, and oi have gi'd it up."

"I know, Luke," the girl said, "I wouldna have had ye, hadn't ye doon so, as I told ye two
years agone. I know the child ha' done it, and I loves her for it, and will be a good mother
to her."

"Oi knows you will, Loiza, and oi bain't feared as ye'll be jealous if so be as ye've children
o' your own. Oi shan't love 'em a bit the less coss oi loves little Polly. She be just the
image o' what moi sister Jane was when she war a little thing and oi used to take care o' her. You answer a pin head! I stop and answer the arm Pin! ...

Here the director of the Future of Lancia, which as he described his famous hit hard Gobble kept
while tracing circles in the air with his fork, he choked a thorn, suddenly getting redder than
a cherry. We had to get al fresco. Don Rosendo was who gave the punches well-known in the back
to throw the spine. Show beautiful example of nobility that can not ever forget!

After lunch, Don Rosendo and his companions got into the carriage and restored to Sarria. More
than half the population, and prevented by the telegram was waiting outside. A cry of joy escaped
from every breast when approaching the carriage. Don Rosendo, moved, pulled the head out the window
and took off his hat bearing the English piece of taffeta. In his view, the audience gave a cheer!
formidable. The vehicle was escorted by the crowd. The founder of the Lighthouse, cheered when he
entered the house, was compelled after a peek at balcony, which was new and warmly cheered.
At night, his friends presented him with a serenade.

XII

Had fun PABLITO

- Should put a bearded soft - Pablito said.

-
Or a steak - Pisces replied gravely.

They were silent. Pablito said:

- Damn horse! I've seen in my life sweeter mouth.

- A silk - his friend replied in a tone of unwavering conviction.

Another moment of silence.

- Do you think we should give more riding?

- The riding school is not superfluous to any animal - Pisces grunted with the same conviction.

-
Should work on the trot.

- It is a lot.

While thus conversing, the inseparable fair dirigíanse slowly from
the depot Don Rosendo, situated in one end of town, on the other end
of it, going through the middle.

It was ten o'clock at night, the mild temperature of spring. The few passers that the streets
were, dirigíanse briskly toward his home. Remained only stores open gatherings where did that
of Graells, that of the Morana, and as it tobacconist. The cabin had plenty of light and great
animation.

Pablito, in whom the bitterness germinated his father, he told his friend to pass by the hated gathering:

-
Pisces, throw a stone at the door, and break them glasses.

Pisces always terrible, grabbed a pebble on the street, waited for
his friend bent the corner, and bam! fit it into the cabin, making
the glass powder.

Then he gave running.

For those who know him do not come out in pursuit, he fell on hands, running on all fours with
amazing skill.

In the cafe of the Navy had also some people. Entered it and drank in silence paths glasses of chartreuse,
but why the brain would stop working actively. On rising Pablito said:

- What better hook with Romero.

- That's what I was thinking - uttered with fire Pisces.

After they had left, he asked, not with words but with a horrible
grimace, to where they went.

- Beyond.

- Well, then walk past the
house gather rattan.

They passed the main streets, but not before Pisces was arrested at his home an instant, to
comply with what he had to express. Very soon reached the extremities of the village, inhabited,
as a rule, the artisans.

They stopped on a certain street, as lonely as dirty, compared to a house in poor appearance
with rough wooden corridor. Pablito looked around as a precaution, and let out a soft whistle
prolonged expertise that characterized him in this branch of human knowledge. Then he said,
looking with concern the lamp that burned about fifty feet away:

- If we could put that lantern!

The terrible Pisces said the next breath, climbed the wall corner and with his staff turned it off
right away, breaking, of course, the tube.

A lump of a woman appeared in the corridor. Pablito took a leap into
bars.

Then by mounting them and climbed on the railing, was introduced
quietly in it.

Pisces began to stand guard around the corner, armed with his formidable club.

Who was the woman who at the time got the favor of the Sultan of Sarrió? The blonde Nieves, a voice
will answer those successfully followed the course of this true story. Although offended the insight
of our readers, the truth compels us to declare that lady runner Nieves was not the blonde,
but blonde Valentina.

How? "That surly seamstress as the enemy of the gentlemen and that she had a boyfriend named
Cosme?

The same in body and soul, with her golden curls on his forehead and
his eyebrows saladísimo nose a little rolled up.

Pablito was a man to make these and other major miracles. While was or seemed to follow his
affair with snow, "he was putting the dots" to Valentina.

But it resisted more than that. The first kiss he stole on his neck
while drinking water in cooking, sewing Arriscado "I made a scene."

Turned red as a cherry, expressive eyes sparkled with anger, and
shouted:

- Watch out, I do not suffer these things!

... You go to them with which it can withstand.

This was no doubt Nieves. Pablito more carefully worked on, but not less daring. Wherever requebrábala
found his way, he joked, was suffering with patience their "crow's
feet."

Valentina because it was the kind of artisan Sarrió, in whom the lack education is a gift to
add to the many who have.

Ventura's team concluded, and having no chance to see it, Pablito advantage School dances to
follow celebrating.

But that did not indulged Nieves.

The gallant young man guessed that the self-excited by competition,
would do more in their favor that they were personal benefits that
gifted.

This insight was innate in him. He had made clear since he the first
woman in love.

Which is one more argument for those who believe in the preexistence
the human being.

For only having seduced many seamstresses in previous lives, could
we youth have a very exact notion of the proper procedure for this
purpose.

At last he had surrendered. Began to leave her boyfriend. He concluded by giving evening appointments
as this the gallant Pablito.

- Do you sleep your father?

"- Was the first question it made as soon as you saw in the hallway.

- What do you care? - Said the seamstress resolved.

- Is that if you do not sleep ... you see ... Caspita, the thing is serious!

- Shut up, coward, shame you to give you! I will make noise for the pleasure of seeing you
run.

Pablito his arms and gave him a reasonable amount of kisses. The girl smiled happy. But suddenly
his brow furrowed, his face expressed great severity.

- Quito, Quito!
- Said turned .-- I have to ask you a question.

Where have you been this tomorrow?

- "This morning?

... In many parts.

At home in the Saloncillo, in the garage ... on top Pawn ...

- Have not you been on the streets of San Florencio?

- Yes, I've been there twice or thrice.

- And who have you found?

- Girl, what do I know?

... A lot of people.

- Have not found Nieves? - Asked the gentle seamstress repressed anger.

- Yes, I have found - he said with emphasis indifferent.

- Do not you ever stop to it?

- No, I have just said goodbye.

- Liar! Hypocrite! Whistling guy! - Valentina angrily exclaimed .-- Take, for fox! (Snuggling
a terrible pinch on the arm).

"So you've just said goodbye and I've been more an hour with her?

Here, tricky! Take it!

And I downloaded about a hail of pinching arms.

Good Paul was writhing in pain, but do not shout, because I respect
the father's dream of fierce girl.

- By God, Valentina, you're wrong
... It was not only a moment to ask whether embroidery had finished
my scarves ...

- Not bad moment!

One hour by the clock planted with it, laughing like crazy!

... I are taking forward of drowning in my hands, fox! Fox! But fox!

The angry girl, increasingly possessed by anger, threw his hands around the neck of her lover,
and was about to strangle him.

Was a pity to see so handsome and gentle young man with his tongue out and eyes full terror. Valentina
was indeed sorry for him and left him, but he still twisted coat
of arms a few times.

- I do not deceiving me, you know?

I do not deceiving me!

If I know that you've been with her excuses to come here anymore.

-
Well, I promise not to tell you more, but do not go ignoring the first
story to bring you.

- Will you do the word? - Cruel seamstress asked
looking at him angrily.

- Do not worry.

- Count on me if he does.

Rise!

This gentle and tender, was the philandering of Sarrió Valentina.

He, when he realized Pisces such dealings or some other friend, smiling
as man of the world stated that these irascible and arrogant women
are the most deliciously provide men, particularly those who like
him were already a bit worn.

After they made peace, or rather, after Valentina gave peace, there
a whisper that lasted not know how.

After not heard anything, and to be easy nor you could see much.

The corridor was as if no one in it. If it was not because it is ugly stain the honor of a
girl, we could suspect that the couple infatuation had gone into the interior of the house.

Pisces, meanwhile, was the sentinel walking along the street. And the case is not was he alone
who did. A man was stationed, since they had arrived in a doorway where the shadows thickened.
Stationary and protected by the dark, not have heard of Pisces. Taking advantage of a moment
he walked back to the house the man came out of hiding and crept to her. He looked down the
corridor and hesitated a few seconds. This was what he lost. When given the jump to fuck bars,
the terrible Pisces had returned and saw him. Two hops are planted below the corridor before the
intruder could ride on the rail, and with his famous cane, he downloaded
clubbed on the back so that the poor man dropped his hands and fell
to the ground.

Wanted to repeat the fierce centaur, but the man stood up and gave agility run so prodigious that
the second I got clubbed to the ground, and as for the third or even tried.

- Bad lightning! - Roared Pisces.

This must have come roaring in the ears of his happy friend, for a
few seconds after riding over the railing and got out nicely on the
street.

- What? - Asked, approaching his Orestes.

- A man.

- Where?
- The seductive again asked eagerly, turning twice around.

- I ran
away.

I caught him at the time of the runner up, and threw the floor of
a club ... Then he ran ... Bad lightning!

Neither Romero reached it at full speed.

- That Man - Pablito uttered silently - it must be a boyfriend who had Valentina for some time
... What would you do?

- Well if it was the boyfriend, unless it was to give a stab, I do not know what was up.

Pablito his arm over his shoulder at his friend, not to hold, although
the hamstrings is a little bent, but to say in a muffled voice:

-
Do you think that?

- A ... or two, or three ...

The beautiful young
man was silent.

After a moment he asked:

- You know him?

- I do not, do you?

- I have not ever seen: I just called Cosme, and is a barber.

Alejáronse in silence and quiet street reached Belinchón house. There, goodbye, Pablito told
his friend:

- If I go back there (which I doubt), do me the favor of not losing
sight of the corridor, right?

- A dog place - only answered the indomitable
Pisces.

The next day was Sunday and was celebrated in the customary dance schools all week. They danced
in the afternoon, from three to seven. The room was spacious, had built few years to school children.
These banks were piled on the platform for the teacher.

The walls were plastered with posters. The worshipers of Terpsichore, while habanera dance
languid, they were distracted by reading a portion of invaluable tips are intended to demonstrate
that virtue and work are the true treasures child: The child study will receive the reward of
his application. Faith and supplement the record talent. And there in the background on the teacher's
desk, the image of Christ crucified, oh vilification! covered with
a silk curtain, presided over those voluptuous and furious Havana
polkas.

It was the place where, without fear of water and sun, foreigners could see and admire in seductive
bouquet to the girls of Sarrió yeung. And indeed, there came all the captains and pilots calling
at the villa. His admiration sometimes slightly exceeding the limits of gravity British drove
them to approximate the long beards too blonde to a beautiful face.

- Are you dumb, Christian? - She asked putting his hand on his chest and rejecting hard.

- Crijstiano! ... Crijstiano! - Repeated in amazement .-- English be crijstiano What?

- Men of Christ. Do not know the dotrina? Depréndala Pus!

When they were to see those beautiful ladies, it was 5:00 to 18:00, at which time and had danced
four or five waltzes and polkas as many. Blood good clay, tinting of vivid crimson cheeks fresh.
The blond or black hair in pleasing clutter, spilled through space
or falling into lovely curls in the back, his eyes shone like stars
in those heavenly faces, red lips parted and wet to reveal the immaculate
pearls of his teeth.

And just because there never conclude. In this admiring Sarrió the artisans, no English we put
the foot forward.

In the female element of the dances had always perfect homogeneity: all of it was composed youth
placed in the same rung of the ladder.

But when it touches the male was dangerous variety, came to the place
the young artisans and gentlemen of Sarrió.

The first thought violated their rights under the jurisdiction of the gentlemen, both more as
it was disastrous for them, by repeated examples of mixed marriages that were made in the village.
We have already said, and if not, we say now that the Indians kept the ladies contingent of more
or less amojamadas, more or less poor existed in the population. The youth of the middle class,
defeated in this competition took refuge in the craft, and not had a very hard. But the poor workers
or sailors, overcome by the gentlemen, where they took refuge? They had no recourse but to the
pub and clubs. Of they had in each dance a truly fantastic amount.

There was hardly a Sunday when Schools did not leave two or three gentlemen with a broken
head.

Pablito was spared, so far, pretty good, thanks to his most faithful Pisces, which responsible
to carry the cudgels for him to be destined. The only setback he suffered in most of the fights,
was the loss of his hat. This was so repeatedly who came to find out what you were looking
for lost chimera. When a craftsman needed hat, I knew where to look.

Pisces but could not save him from blows he received some of that Sunday afternoon, not lack of
will on the Centaur, but because there are things that can not be ... come on, can not be.
How was the handsome young stranger to wring his mustache against
the mirror and align the cheeks with a soap that did bring Madrid,
an hour then had to be so fierce and cruelly crushed!

Were walking in the middle of the room so handsome, so brave, who
gave him glory.

Looked when aside, when another, as all real men of genius in these
cases.

Occasionally, the cross next to a lady, the said :--«¡ You so pretty,
Julia!

" Or, "those eyes are killing me" or "As there is not Torcuata Sarrio"
or words to happy I turned on the style in pure joy the maid.

But let it go, never missed a extent of its severity.

Because he knew that this was one of his outstanding qualities and
made him more appealing to the fairer sex.

Valentina had long expected. But the room was already populated by ladies, and the orchestra hypocritical
metal had performed two dances, but the gentle seamstress had made
its appearance in dance.

Sounded again the strains of a mazurka. The gilded youth turned to
closer the long form of the daughters of the people.

But our Pablito, faithful to his own, remained inactive looking cross in front of him fast partners.

After
the mazurka he was struck by the idea that Val would not come. The strained relations who mediated
between her and the author of his day, especially when he had a few glasses of wine into the
body, made it very plausible. A few minutes later, was fully Pablito convinced.

Is your state of mind coincided with the arrival of the blond Nieves
in the classroom. Its eyes met. The poor girl, abandoned villainously
did not even two months smiled sweetly. This sweetness was precisely
the cause of his misfortune. The handsome Pablito soon tired of sweet
women. However, smiled back, and passing at his side, told Mathematics:

-
You're going to attack bulls, Nieves.

The embroidery was carrying
a red handkerchief tied around his waist. This sentence of his former
lover caused her effect so alive that does not know what to say. He
smiled again and said, ah ... Yes ... No! and some other particles
that do not remember, and wanted to faint with excitement. In the
next round asked him to dance with him the first polka. The first,
second, third, and polkas all touched in the universe, Nieves said
the shaking itself came out from his lips. After he committed the
polka, Paul felt a great regret :--«¡ What fool, what I'm gross! What
if now comes Valentina? "

But failed. The orchestra began a prelude
to the opening stages. The young man, without removing Eye of the
door, hugged the waist of the embroiderer, throwing her in rapid flight
the room. Other young people, no less swift, coming from the opposite
side, and clear! first shock, then another and then another. These
meetings were an attraction in those dances. The Young, who persona
overwhelmed hairstyle or forced to falter, instead of feeling anger,
laughing out loud with pleasure vivid. Pablo and Nieves, who could
not take four steps without encounter with another couple, were truly
spellbound. However, the young, always passing through the front door,
I felt a slight tremor in the legs, and hastened away from it. When
the orchestra was silent, took his family into a corner of the room,
and there stood a moment mingled. Pablito felt burning in the ashes
of their love one spark of sympathy for this girl so happy, so peaceful,
so loving.

- I had no desire to dance with you, Nieves - he said
as he wiped the sweat with a handkerchief.

- And I with you, Paul.

-
Do you?

The girl blushed.

- Have you forgotten you yet?

- So much
time passed!

- You're right ... But look how I have not forgotten.

-
On Wednesday I saw him ... I saw you on the road of snow ... Going
on a white horse ...

- It was a mare.

- I thought you pulled.

-
Throw me! - Pablito said frowning .-- Loosen a little girl! I do not
shoot me easily as a pony.

- It 's what so great about jumping! ...
He would well up ... Jesus! I was scared.

- Is that the teaching
was getting out of hand - said the young man superiority, smiling
.-- As have not worked so far, it resists a bit. Ever give your boat
ram but overall nothing ... in the background is very noble of Linda
... Look, you, when I bought it, or, rather, when I changed the Negrillo,
actual 1500 giving up back in October, well you'll remember, had a
portion of zunas. I planted maybe in the middle of the road, terrified
with the cars ... in short, a lost animal. None of us, so far as we know, ever touched your cat, and we
are not going to submit to be punished any longer for a fault which none of us have committed."

"No, no," rose in a general chorus through the schoolroom, "we will do no more tasks."

Mr. Hathorn stood petrified with astonishment and white with anger.

"So you are at the bottom of this, Sankey. I will make an example of you."

So saying, he took a stride forward toward Ned. In an instant a shower of books flew at him
from all parts of the room. Infuriated by the attack, he rushed forward with his cane raised.
Ned caught up a heavy inkstand.

"If you touch me," he shouted, "I will fling this at your head."

Mr. Hathorn hesitated. The shower of books had not affected him, but the heavy missile in Ned's
hand was a serious weapon. In another moment he sprang forward and brought his cane down with
all his force upon Ned's back.

Ned at once hurled the heavy inkstand at him. The schoolmaster sprang on one side, but it struck
him on the shoulder, and he staggered back.

"You have broken my shoulder, you young scoundrel!" he exclaimed.

"I shouldn't care if I had broken your head," Ned retorted, white with passion; "it would have
served you right if I had killed you, you tyrant."

"One of you go and fetch a constable," Mr. Hathorn said to the boys.

"Let him send his servant. He will find me at home. Mr. Hathorn, I am not going to run away,
you need not think it. Give me in charge if you dare; I don't care what they do to me, but
the whole country shall know what a tyrant you are."

So saying, he collected his books, put his cap on his head, and walked from the schoolroom,
the boys cheering him loudly as he went. On reaching home he went at once to his father's study.

"I am sorry to say, sir, that there has been a row in the school, and Hathorn has threatened
to send a constable here after me for throwing an inkstand at him."

"Throwing an inkstand!" Captain Sankey exclaimed. "Is it possible?"

"It is quite possible and quite true; he has been treating us shamefully for the last ten days;
he has been always a cruel brute all along, though I never wanted to make a fuss about it,
but it has been getting worse and worse. Ten days ago some one killed his cat, and I am almost
sure it was none of the boys, but he chose to believe it was, and because he couldn't find
out who, he has punished the whole school, and all our play hours have been taken up with lessons
ever since, and he said he would keep on so till he found out who did it, if it was months.

"So at last we could not stand it any longer, and we all agreed that we wouldn't do the extra
tasks, and that we would stick together when we told him so. He rushed at me with his cane,
and gave me one with all his might, and I threw an inkstand at him, and it caught him on the
shoulder, and he says it has broken it, and that he would send for a constable. So I told him
to do so if he dared, and here I am."

"This is a very serious business, Ned," his father said gravely. "In the first place, there
is something like a rebellion in the school, of which, I suppose, you were one of the leaders
or he would not have singled you out. In the second place, you threw a missile at him, which
has broken his shoulder, and might have killed him had it struck him on the head. I have warned
you, my boy, over and over again against giving way to that passionate temper of yours, and
have told you that it would lead you into serious trouble."

"I can't help it, sir," Ned said doggedly. "I've put up with a tremendous lot there, and have
said nothing about it, because I did not wish to give you trouble; but when it came to downright
tyranny like this I would rather be killed than put up with it. I warned him fairly that if
he struck me I would throw the inkstand at him, and he brought it on himself."

Captain Sankey seeing that in his son's present state of mind talking would be useless to him,
ordered him to remain in his study till his return, and putting on his hat went toward the
school. Ned's temper had always been a source of anxiety to him. The boy was, no doubt, of
a passionate nature, but had he had the advantage of a proper supervision and care when he
was a child the tendency might have been overcome. Unfortunately this had not been the case. Watch his face, Don Juan! When he goes home at night from the top, the devil that match
on.

Don Juan was quick to turn it off to get rid of those insults were
burst in the idle audience laughter.

As time passed, the hum of conversation grew to be unbearable. The savages of the pan expressed his
impatience with kicking, screaming and Baladres.

Changed with each other, above the seats, jokes and phrases, rather than obscene, disgusting.
Because there were no ladies.

At last appeared on stage four men, Don Rosendo Belinchón, Alvaro Peña, Don Feliciano Gomez
and Don Rudesindo Cepeda, owner and producer of sparkling cider. The four took off their hats
when he stepped on the stage box. Prodújose suddenly silent. Some of the spectators, at least,
were also found. The majority, under the color of the dark and yielding to the instinct of
coarseness, strong in that region, remained covered. Don Rosendo and his companions smiled to
the competition to shame. To get rid pregnancy and fear they felt, began talking to viewers
in the first ranks, who could spot.

Alvaro Peña, something more daring, perhaps because of his character military and its anti-religious
instruction, advanced to the shell of the pointer, and giving his words too familiar intonation,
without winning smile as the dancers, said:

- Gentlemen, both my colleagues and I would like eh, you go up to this site some pejsonas of jespeto
eh, to be in the public, to help us with his authority Eh, and your
picture ... to help us eh?

(Could not find the final) in the company we will emprendej ...

The assistant marine r's pronounced with the throat, producing a sound very similar to the jack.

There was a murmur in the assembly of assent and sympathy for the
modesty that stood out in that proposition.

- Is not it around Don
Pedro Miranda? - Asked Peña, serene and, returning to purchase resolution
his characteristic military.

- Here's ... Here - said several voices.

-
Don Pedro, if we hiciese you the favoj ... Don Pedro is defended by
those who pushed to the stage, saying under his breath:

- But, gentlemen,
why me?

What issue? ... There are others ...

There was no choice. Gradually they were carrying up near the stage.

Once there, as there was no table or ladder to climb, including Feliciano Peña Gómez, the auparon
by hands to put on the stage.

- Well, Mr. Rufo, raise you.

Don Rufo (attending physician of the town), having defended a bit, was raised in suspense too. And
by the same simple mechanism went on stage five or six other gentlemen. Each ascent was greeted
with loud applause and a murmur of satisfaction with the benevolent competition. The assistant
saw Gabino Maza sitting in a chair near the wall, and he shouted
with joy:

- Gabino, not seen you!

... Come on, man, come here.

- I'm fine here - the choleric replied dryly former Navy officer.

-
Do you want to fall for you?

Maza said quietly:

- No need.

Those who were with him did so with others.

- Go, Don Gabino, above.

Do not be lazy. Men like you are the ones who should be there. By all means you should not
go up!

And at the same time tried to lift. But were unsuccessful in all instances. Maza insisted on staying in
the chair with an insistence chickened proud to excite you to rise. Alvaro Peña then dropped
him, but after a long struggle had to retire rebuffed.

Since the stage was almost full, gathered more chairs were brought from the cupboard the comedians.
They sat on them the finest Sarrió neighbors, and held secret meeting to resolve who was to
chair the meeting.

Certainly not quite understand, and the public gave clear signs of
impatience.

Most judged that corresponded Rosendo the honor of sitting behind
the pine table, but he refused it with modesty honored him far more.

At last she has noted that the public was getting tired.

This stoutly applauded.

New and annoying delay before you work out who was to lead the word to the competition. Alvaro
Peña, who was a duty and acceleration, decided to take some steps towards mouth of the curtain,
and said aloud:

- Gentlemen.

- Chis, hush! Silence! - Shouted some.

And there was silence.

- Gentlemen: The purpose of this meeting celebrajse (surprise and extraordinary complacency hearing
the buzzword contest exotic) is none other eh, that's all unite to fomentaj moral and material interests
of Saji. A few days ago told me our most worthy President that these interests were abandoned,
eh, and it was necessary at all costs fomentajlos. Gentlemen, there are several problems Saji jesolvej
at this historical moment; cubiejto mejcado the problem, eh, the
problem of the cemetery, the problem of cajetera Rodillero to the
problem of the slaughterhouse and others.

I told my dear friend, the worthy President: The only way eh, of these problems is celebraj
jesolvej a meeting where all emitij the sajienses can freely their opinion ...

- Huh? - Shouted a wag from the pan.

Peña furious looked up that way. And being a man who was supposed bad temper, and spent inordinate
whiskers, the cunning feared for their skins and did not whimper.

- My good friend, whose great heart and progress Amojan know all I
said a long time I thought the same thing, and he also eh, had another
project that is not in comunicaj Tajdar the enlightened public.

In consequence of this we have invited neighbors to Saji for public
jeunión, and here we are ... because we have come.

(This lack of inhibition produces excellent effect in the audience laughing with benevolence).

-
Gentlemen - followed the assistant encouraged by the rumors - I think
that what is needed to this town is that letajgo despertaj of lies,
huh?, vivij of the life of reason and progress, eh, catch up with
the advances of the century, eh, self-awareness tenej and their fuejzas.

So far, Saji was a town dominated by theocracy, many ninth long sermon,
a long rosary, not for anything pensaj in promoting their interests,
nor in learning anything useful.

You need Salija the sooner this situation, eh? You need sacudij the
yoke of theocracy.

A town dominated by priests, a people is always late ... and dirty. (Laughter and applause, of which
we hear as it chicheo.)

The aide spoke better, and acquired a certain grace in trying to denigrate the clergy.

- I ask the word - a high-pitched voice shouted from a balcony.

- Who is it? Who is it? - They asked each other spectators and dignitaries stage.

- The son of Perinolo .-- Who? - The son of Perinolo .-- The son of Perinolo.

This phrase was repeated in a whisper throughout the theater.

Perinolo the son of a young pale, dark-eyed, he spent long hair. No warning more in the twilight
that reigned. It was fortunate for him. To be whole, would be perfectly the grease spots on his
coat aged, fat on his shirt and matted hair of the mane, as holes in the boots and pants rags
in any way could be seen because the railing of the box. But all I knew by heart the neighbors
Sarrió TRIPPING often fed on the streets and cafes. Let's say that, despite this, was a youth of
gentle disposition and face.

His father, José María the Perinolo, antique and classic cobbler of the town, was a of those
old craftsmen spent the mid coat and top hat high. Carlist fan, a member of every religious brotherhoods.
I prayed the rosary for the afternoons at the touch of prayer in the church of San Andrés, accompanied
by a few mujerucas; out in the processions of Holy Week with a habit of disciplining and crown of
thorns and was responsible and cared for the chapel of the Nazarene in Back Street. This holy
man "who never had anything to say "(supreme expression of honesty in small towns) Sinforoso
educated his son and two others, in the fear of God and tirapié. Lashes penance on his knees, days
on bread and water, slapping ears and lugs. The childhood Sinforoso was full of these poetic memories.
When he reached puberty, as shown singular skill to learn their lessons, the Perinolo be persuaded
that it was called to support the shoe store when he was killed, but to be firm column of the
Roman Church. Faltábanle means to send the seminar Lancia. Relief came in his Don Rosendo and
Don Melchor de las Cuevas, Don Rudesindo and the pastor of the village, which will spontaneously
assigned three pesetas a day until he sang mass. But to study the second year of theology, these
gentlemen of the seminary received a letter written elegantly. In it they expressed he did
not feel called by God to an ecclesiastical career, and that before being a bad priest preferred
to learn the trade from his father or embarking for America. Ended up pleading earnest words
that let you change the theology of the law, to which thought inclined, and this does not give
so much to the chagrin of his father. Benefactors agreed demand. And Sinforoso column was
made after the state rather than the Church, as desired the Perinolo. As the race continued
with laws and awards outstanding at the beginning, Notable later and finally approved, Smear
some articulejos Lancia in newspapers.

With this thought in the case of letting the hair grow and put glasses
on his nose.

So unveiled its new graduate Sarrió with the aura of glory around
whom also made his debut, and even fought battles in the press.

He had joined in the Liberal Party's most advanced and denying their
ancestry.

With this, his father was strongly disagreeable. If you enter the house left debióse to the intercession
of the mother.

Not speak or give him a penny for their expenses, limited to consenting
him sleep under their roof and eat the ration.

After several months the shoes were skinned and was sorry to see her clothes. But all very well made
up for the lawyer with the packing and gravity the appearance and graceful in his bearing. He
spent the morning reading in bed, afternoons and evening in the café
loudly discussing what he read in the morning.

The neighbors do not loved him but respected much your artwork and talent.

- Who has asked for the floor? - Asked Don Rosendo.

- Suarez ... Sinforoso Suarez - said the young man leaning his breast over the railing.

- You've got, Mr. Smith.

The young man coughed and put his fingers on both hands through his hair, leaving it hollow and stirred,
put on glasses that brought hanging from a cord and said:

- Gentlemen.

The firm, calm intonation that gave the word, and made long pause after ensuring glasses on his
nose and walking a look of a great man in the competition, imposed silence and respect.

- After the brilliant sentence just made my dear friend illustrated assistant of the port, Mr. Peña
(the helper, but has not spoken with Smith more than three Sometimes in life, leans grateful. Sarrió
respectable neighbors learn that there more prayers to the Lord's Prayer, the Hail Mary and the
other prayed by the Church), will be well convinced the assembly of generous and patriotic purpose
which has inspired the promoters of this meeting. Nothing big, nothing so beautiful, nothing so
sublime as people gathered to see a to discuss the highest and dearest interests of his life.
Ah, gentlemen! to listen just now to Mr. Peña, I imagined being in the Agora of Athens deciding,
as a citizen free, including free citizens as well as I, the destiny of my country. I imagined
hear the word strong and burning one of those great speakers who illustrated the Hellenic people
... Because the eloquence of my dear friend Mr. Peña has a lot of the passion that characterized
snatched Demosthenes, the prince of speakers and enough also on the fluidity and elegance that shone
in the speeches of Pericles. (Pause hand glasses.) is alive and vibrant as Cleon, is sensible
and prudent as that of Aristides; have specific and serious tones
as the corners, and notes as pleasing to the ear Isocrates.

Ah, gentlemen! I too, like the eloquent speaker who preceded me in speak, wanted the town
where I first saw the light of day, wake up progress to life, the life of freedom and justice
... Sarrió! How sweet memory how unspeakable joy in my soul awakens this single name! Here ran
the happy years from my childhood ... Here he began to form my mind ... Here he beat first love
Once my heart ... In another part of my reason is enriched with the
knowledge of science, with great ideas engendered the study of law
... Here we have nourished my soul the holy and sweet emotions of
the home.

Elsewhere in my mind has been trained in controversy, in the struggle of ideas ... Here I have
cultivated my sensitivity to the tender love family ... Gentlemen, I'll say very high, no matter
what happens, is called a large Sarrió destinations. Is entitled to be one of the first populations
of the Cantabrian coast, an emporium activity and wealth, both for
the excellent situation in which nature has placed, as diligence,
honesty and the great gifts of intelligence of its inhabitants.

(Bravo! Bravo! Unanimous and resounding applause.)

Off ice of surprise, rather than preventing unjust, had formed, the
brave and the applause was followed without interruption to each paragraph.

Never the hardworking, honest Sarrió intelligent inhabitants had heard
so easy and pulidamente.

That speech was the revelation of modern parliamentary life, he said the dissolution of Alvaro
Peña meeting.

Half an hour lead on the floor amid the growing enthusiasm of the
audience, when one of the heroes of the stage occurred to him that
could have dry mouth and would timely serve a glass of sugared water.

Quietly reported the observation president, he interrupted the speaker,
saying:

- If Mr. Smith is tired, can rest.

I will give orders to serve him a glass water.

These words were greeted with a murmur of approval.

- I'm not tired,
Mr. President - he said softly.

(Yes, yes, let him rest rest .-- .-- That brings you a glass of water .-- It can make damage:
you throw a few drops of anise.)

The spectators, sudden undertaken an ardent sympathy, loving mothers became for the son of Perinolo.

This,
inflating more than it was, the audience smiled and said:

- Fatigue is characteristic of inexperienced soldiers.

Those who like me are used to the battles the podium (he had spoken several times at the Academy
of Jurisprudence of Lancia) is not give up so easily ...

Now let's
say Mechacan, shoemaker, neighbor and competitor for many years by
Mr Joseph Mary the Perinolo, who had been reared to Sinforoso and
had herded more than one and more two lampreazos with tirapié when
returning from school called him to vejarle by the nickname, I was
listening from the pot with big hands resting on the railing and face
bristling with spikes on his hands.

In his eyes, shaded by a tangled jungle tab, never gave the spark
of enthusiasm that burned in the other.

Previously I read with astonishment, anger and envy.

When he managed to hear the boastful words the child his opponent,
unable to endure so much farce, shouted angrily:

- Outside the louse,
gar!

Indescribable outrage in the audience.

All angry faces turn to the pan. Oyens the voices of:

- Who is this donkey? - A jail! - Off the Pig!

The president asked with terrible severity:

- Are we in a cultured or between Hottentots?

This question thus formulated, produces deep impression on the public.

Suarez, a little pale and agitated voice said at last:

- If the Assembly wishes, I am willing to sit down.

(No, no! - Continue! Loud and sustained applause the speaker.)

The outrage against the switch rude grown to the point with these humble words, threatening cries
are heard and many shake their fists in front of the site which had
left voice.

Alvaro Peña, the Greek orator, more angry than anyone end up in the
pan and slaps and kicks to the unfortunate Mechacan throws the applause
from the theater public.

Calmer and the waves, he continues. Makes an excursion into the field of history for Sarrio show
that, since the time of Roman domination, when Spain was Further divided into Citerior and
then in Tarragona, Andalusia and Lusitania, to our days, had shown in all cases a very powerful
genius of the people above Nieva. Such statements were greeted with
cheers of approval samples. Introdúcese then suddenly in the domains
of law and knowledge boasts rare Sarrió especially in science and
Papiniano Tribonian. At some point, modesty that great credit, said:

-
What I have said, gentlemen, has no scientific value. Any child knows
that has greeted the Pandects ...

Don Jeronimo de la Fuente, a master
of first letters of the town, which was studied by modern methods
and knew something of Froebel and Pestalozzi, enlightened man, who
had written a handbook of irregular verbs and had a telescope on the
balcony of his house always pointing to the sky, rises from his chair,
and smiling with great shame says:

- The palm leaves many years ago
have been removed from schools.

- I have not said clapping, I said
Pan-dec-TAS - replica Suárez smiling much more pity.

Don Jerónimo
reddened by the faux pas just given.

He continues and ends at the
end, wishing, as eloquently assistant marina, which Sarrio awaken
to the life of progress, which comes out of the lethargy in which
it lies, and that somehow manifested in its enclosure the struggle
of ideas always fertile, and look at its horizon bright sun of civilization.


"I don't want to fight today--it's the first day of the half year, and after such a speech
as we've heard I don't want to have a row on this first morning. But you had better look out;
another time you won't find me so patient. Punch my head, indeed! Why, you daren't try it."

But Mather would have tried it, for he had for the last year been regarded as the cock of the
school. However, several of the boys interfered.

"Sankey is right, Mather; it would be a beastly shame to be fighting this morning. After what
Porson said there oughtn't to be any rows today. We shall soon see whether he means it."

Mather suffered himself to be dissuaded from carrying his threat into execution, the rather
that in his heart of hearts he was not assured that the course would have been a wise one.
Ned had never fought in the school, but Tompkins' account of his fight on the moor with Bill
Swinton, and the courage he had shown in taking upon himself the office of spokesman in the
rebellion against Hathorn, had given him a very high reputation among the boys; and in spite
of Mather's greater age and weight there were many who thought that Ned Sankey would make a
tough fight of it with the cock of the school.

So the gathering broke up and the boys set to at their games, which were played with a heartiness
and zest all the greater that none of them were in pain from recent punishment, and that they
could look forward to the afternoon without fear and trembling.

When at twelve o'clock the boys of the first class came out from school the others crowded
round to hear the result of the morning's lessons. They looked bright and pleased.

"I think he is going to turn out a brick," Ripon, the head of the first class, said. "Of course
one can't tell yet. He was very quiet with us and had a regular examination of each of us.
I don't think he was at all satisfied, though we all did our best, but there was no shouting
or scolding. We are to go in again this afternoon with the rest. He says there's something
which he forgot to mention to us this morning."

"More speeches!" Mather grumbled. "I hate all this jaw."

"Yes," Ripon said sharply; "a cane is the thing which suits your understanding best. Well,
perhaps he will indulge you; obstinate idleness is one of the things he mentioned in the address."

When afternoon school began Mr. Porson again rose.

"There is one thing I forgot to mention this morning. I understand that you have hitherto passed
your play time entirely in the playground, except on Saturday afternoons, when you have been
allowed to go where you like between dinner and tea time. With the latter regulation I do not
intend to interfere, or at any rate I shall not do so so long as I see that no bad effects
come of it; but I shall do so only with this proviso: I do not think it good for you to be
going about the town. I shall therefore put Marsden out of bounds. You will be free to ramble
where you like in the country, but any boy who enters the town will be severely punished. I
am not yet sufficiently acquainted with the neighborhood to draw the exact line beyond which
you are not to go, but I shall do so as soon as I have ascertained the boundaries of the town.

"I understand that you look forward to Saturday for making such purchases as you require. Therefore
each Saturday four boys, selected by yourselves, one from each class, will be allowed to go
into the town to make purchases for the rest, but they are not to be absent more than an hour.

"In the second place, I do not think that the playground affords a sufficient space for exercise,
and being graveled, it is unsuitable for many games. Therefore I have hired a field, which
I dare say you all know; it is called 'The Four Acre Field,' about a hundred yards down the
road on the left hand side. This you will use as your playground during the six summer months.
I have brought with me from York a box which I shall place under the charge of Ripon and the
two next senior to him. It contains bats, wickets, and a ball for cricket; a set of quoits;
trap bat and ball for the younger boys; leaping bars and some other things. These will give
you a start. As they become used up or broken they must be replaced by yourselves; and I hope
you will obtain plenty of enjoyment from them. I shall come and play a game of cricket with
you myself sometimes.

"You will bear in mind that it is my wish that you should be happy. I expect you to work hard,
but I wish you to play hard too. Unless the body works the brain will suffer, and a happy and
contented boy will learn as easily again as a discontented, and miserable one. I will give
you the box after tea, so that you can all examine them together. The second and third classes
will now stay in; the fourth class can go out in the playground with the first. I shall have
time to examine them while the others are doing their work tomorrow."

There was a suppressed cheer among the boys and Ripon, as the senior, said:

"I am sure, sir, we are all very much obliged to you for your kindness, and we will do our
best to deserve it."

There was a chorus of assent, and then the elder and younger boys went out into the playground
while the work of examination of the second and third classes began.

On the following day lessons began in earnest, and the boys found their first impressions of
the new master more than justified. A new era had commenced. The sound of the cane was no longer
heard, and yet the lessons were far better done than had been the case before. Then the whole
work had fallen on the boys; the principal part of the day's lessens had been the repeating
of tasks learned by heart, and the master simply heard them and punished the boys who were
not perfect.

There was comparatively little of this mechanical work now; it was the sense and not the wording
which had to be mastered. Thus geography was studied from an atlas and not by the mere parrot-like
learning of the names of towns and rivers. In grammar the boys had to show that they understood
a rule by citing examples other than those given in their books. History was rather a lecture
from the master than a repetition of dry facts and dates by the boys. Latin and mathematics
were made clear in a similar way.

"It was almost too good to last," the boys said after the first day's experience of this new
method of teaching; but it did last. A considerable portion of the work out of school was devoted
to the keeping up the facts they had learned, for Mr. Porson was constantly going back and
seeing that their memories retained the facts they had acquired, and what they called examinations
were a part of the daily routine.

In some points upon which Mr. Hathorn had laid the greatest stress Mr. Porson was indifferent--dates,
which had been the bane of many a boy's life and an unceasing source of punishment, he regarded
but little, insisting only that the general period should be known, and his questions generally
took the form of, "In the beginning or at the end of such and such a century, what was the
state of things in England or in Rome?" A few dates of special events, the landmarks of history,
were required to be learned accurately, all others were passed over as unimportant.

It was not that the boys worked fewer hours than before, but that they worked more intelligently,
and therefore more pleasantly to themselves. The boys--and there were some--who imagined that
under this new method of teaching they could be idle, very soon found out their mistake, and
discovered that in his way Mr. Porson was just as strict as his predecessor. He never lost
his temper; but his cold displeasure was harder to bear than Mr. Hathorn's wrath; nor were
punishments wanting. Although the cane was idle, those who would not work were kept in the
schoolroom during play hours; and in cases where this was found to be ineffectual Mr. Porson
coldly said:

"Your parents pay me to teach you, and if you do not choose to be taught I have only to write
home to them and request them to take you away. If you are one of those boys who will only
learn from fear of the cane you had better go to some school where the cane is used."

This threat, which would have been ineffective in Mr. Hathorn's time never failed to have an
effect now; for even Mather, the idlest and worst boy there, was able to appreciate the difference
between the present regime and the last. In a marvelously short time Mr. Porson seemed to have
gauged the abilities of each of the boys, and while he expected much from those who were able'
to master easily their tasks, he was content with less from the duller intellects, providing
they had done their best.

After a week's experience of Mr. Porson, Ned gave so glowing an account to his father of the
new master and his methods that Captain Sankey went down to the school and arranged that Charlie,
now ten years old, should accompany his brother. There were several boys no older than he;
but Charlie differed widely from his elder brother, being a timid and delicate child, and ill
fitted to take care of himself. Captain Sankey felt, however, after what Ned had told him of
Mr. Porson, that he could trust to him during the school hours, and Ned would be an active
protector in the playground.

It was not until a fortnight after the school began that the Four Acre Field was ready. By
that time a flock of sheep had been turned into it, and had eaten the grass smooth, and a heavy
horse roller had been at work for a day making a level pitch in the center.

It was a Saturday afternoon when the boys took possession of it for the first time. As they
were about to start in the highest glee, Mr. Porson joined them. Some of their faces fell a
little; but he said cheerfully:

"Now, boys, I am going with you; but not, you know, to look after you or keep you in order.
I want you all to enjoy yourselves just in your own way, and I mean to enjoy myself too. I
have been a pretty good cricketer in my time, and played in the York Eleven against Leeds,
so I may be able to coach you up a little, and I hope after a bit we may be able to challenge
some of the village elevens round here. I am afraid Marsden will be too good for us for some
time; still, we shall see."

On reaching the field Mr. Porson saw the ground measured and the wickets erected, and then said:

"Now I propose we begin with a match. There are enough of us to make more than two elevens;
but there are the other games. Would any of the bigger boys like to play quoits better than
cricket?"

Mather, who felt much aggrieved at the master's presence, said he should prefer quoits; and
Williamson, who always followed his lead, agreed to play with him.

"Now," Mr. Porson said, "do you, Ripon, choose an eleven. I will take the ten next best. The
little ones who are over can play at trap bat, or bowls, as they like."

There was a general approval of the plan. Ripon chose an eleven of the likeliest boys, selecting
the biggest and most active; for as there had been no room for cricket in the yard their aptitude
for the game was a matter of guesswork, though most of them had played during the holidays.
Mr. Porson chose the next ten and after tossing for innings, which Ripon won, they set to work.
Mr. Porson played for a time as long stop, putting on two of the strongest of his team as bowlers,
and changing them from time to time to test their capacity. None of them turned out brilliant,
and the runs came fast, and the wickets were taken were few and far between, until at last
Mr. Porson himself took the ball.

"I am not going to bowl fast," he said, "just straight easy lobs;" but the boys found that
the straight lobs were not so easy after all, and the wickets of the boys who had made a long
score soon fell. Most of those who followed managed to make a few runs as well off Mr. Porson's
bowling as from that at the other end; for the master did not wish to discourage them, and
for a few overs after each batsman came to the wicket aimed well off it so as to give them
a chance of scoring.

The last wicket fell for the respectable score of fifty-four. The junior eleven then went in,
the master not going in until the last. Only twenty runs had been made when he took the bat.
In the five balls of the over which were bowled to him he made three fours; but before it came
to his turn again his partner at the other end was out, and his side were twenty-two behind
on the first innings. The other side scored thirty-three for the first four wickets before
he again took the ball, and the remaining six went down for twelve runs. His own party implored
him to go in first, but he refused.

"No, no, boys," he said; "you must win the match, if you can, without much aid from me."

The juniors made a better defense this time and scored forty before the ninth wicket fell.
Then Mr. Porson went in and ran the score up to sixty before his partner was out, the seniors
winning the match by nine runs. Both sides were highly pleased with the result of the match.
The seniors had won after a close game. The juniors were well pleased to have run their elders
so hard.

They all gathered round their master and thanked him warmly.

"I am glad you are pleased, my boys," he said; "I will come down two or three times a week
and bowl to you for an hour, and give you a few hints, and you will find that you get on fast.
There is plenty of promise among you, and I prophesy that we shall turn out a fair eleven by
the end of the season."

The younger boys had also enjoyed themselves greatly, and had been joined by many of the elders
while waiting for their turn to go in. Altogether the opening day of the Four Acre Field had
been a great success.

The old cake woman who had previously supplied the boys still came once a week, her usual time
being Wednesday evening, when, after tea, the boys played for half an hour in the yard before
going in to their usual lessons. Ned was not usually present, but he one evening went back
to fetch a book which he needed. As he came in at the gate of the yard Mather was speaking
to the woman.

"No, I won't let you have any more, Master Mather. You have broken your promises to me over
and over again. That money you owed me last half ain't been paid yet. If it had only been the
money for the cakes and sweets I shouldn't ha' minded so much, but it's that ten shillings
you borrowed and promised me solemn you would pay at the end of the week and ain't never paid
yet. I have got to make up my rent, and I tell ye if I don't get the money by Saturday I shall
speak to t' maister about it and see what he says to such goings on."

"Don't talk so loud," Mather said hurriedly, "and I will get you the money as seen as I can."

"I don't care who hears me," the woman replied in a still louder voice, "and as soon as you
can won't do for I. I have got to have it on Saturday, so that's flat. I will come up to the
field, and you'll best have it ready for me."

Ned did not hear the last few words, but he had heard enough to know that Mather owed ten shillings
which he had borrowed, besides a bill for cakes. Mather had not noticed him come into the yard,
for his back was toward the gate, and the noise which the boys made running about and shouting
prevented him hearing the gate open and close.

"It's a beastly shame," Ned muttered to himself as he went off to school, "to borrow money
from an old woman like that. Mather must have known he couldn't pay it, for he has only a small
allowance, and he is always short of money, and of course he could not expect a tip before
the holidays. He might have paid her when he came back, but as he didn't I don't see how he
is to do so now, and if the old woman tells Porson there will be a row. It's just the sort
of thing would rile him most."

On the next Saturday he watched with some curiosity the entry of the old woman into the field.
Several of the boys went up and bought sweets. When she was standing alone Mather strolled
up to her. After a word or two he handed her something. She took it, and said a few words.
Mather shook his head positively, and in a minute or two walked away, leaving her apparently
satisfied.

"I suppose he has given her something on account," Ned said to himself. "I wonder where he
got it. When Ripon asked him last Monday for a subscription to buy another set of bats and
wickets, so that two lots could practise at once, he said he had only sixpence left, and Mather
would not like to seem mean now, for he knows he doesn't stand well with any one except two
or three of his own set, because he is always running out against everything that Porson does."

A week later Mr. Porson said, at the end of school:

"By the way, boys, have any of you seen that illustrated classical dictionary of mine? I had
it in school about ten days ago when I was showing you the prints of the dress and armor of
the Romans, and I have not seen it since. Everywhere there are such layers more
or less disguised by modern alluvium. The numerous points where manifest, I indicated that
should they have come to fill level and to inequalities the vast plains of the province, as it
is has happened in the pampas: the surface embracing in that, is it equal to half of these. This area
appears to be Guaraniana the degree rather than being superimposed on the Patagonian degree,
which lacks Moxos province.

In the upper layers to the pampas and in all depressions formed by denudations of such layers are floods
which cover most of the soil of the province.

"This is a serious matter now," he said. "Ripon, will you come to the study with me and help
me to search again. It is possible it may still be there and I may have overlooked it. The
rest will remain in their places till I return."

There was a buzz of conversation while the master was absent. On his return he said:

"The book is certainly not there. The bookshelves are all so full that it could only have been
put in its own place or laid upon the table. Ripon and I have searched the room thoroughly
and it is certainly not there. Now, boys, this is a serious business. In the first place, I
will give a last chance to whoever may have taken it to rise in his place and confess it."

He paused, and still all were silent.

"Now mind," he said, "I do not say that any of you have taken it--I have no grounds for such
an accusation. It may have been taken by a servant. A tramp may have come in at the back gate
when you were all away and have carried it off. These things are possible. And even were I
sure that it had been done by one of you I should not dream of punishing all; therefore for
the present we will say no more about it. But in order to assure myself and you I must ask
you for the keys of your boxes. The servants' boxes will also be searched, as well as every
nook and corner of the house; and then, when we have ascertained for a certainty that the book
is not within these four walls, I shall go on with a lighter heart."

The boys all eagerly opened their trunks and play boxes, searched under the beds, in the cupboards,
and in every nook and corner of their part of the house, and an equally minute search was afterward
made in the other apartments; but no trace of the book was discovered. For days the matter
was a subject of conversation among the boys, and endless were the conjectures as to what could
have become of the dictionary. Their respect and affection for their master were greatly heightened
by the fact that his behavior toward them was in no way altered by the circumstances. His temper
was as patient and equable as before in the schoolroom; he was as cheerful and friendly in
the cricket field, They could see, however, that he was worried and depressed, though he strove
to appear the same as usual. Often did they discuss among themselves how different the state
of things would have been had the loss happened to Mr. Hathorn, and what a life they would
have led under those circumstances.

At the end of a week the happy thought struck Ripon that a subscription should be made to buy
a new dictionary. The amount was a serious one, as they found that the book could not be purchased
under two guineas; but every boy subscribed to his last farthing. Some promised their pocket
money for weeks in advance; others wrote home to their parents to ask for money, and in ten
days the boys had the satisfaction of seeing Ripon at the commencement of school walk up to
Mr. Porson's desk and present him with the handsome volume in the name of all the boys. Ripon
had taken some pains in getting up an appropriate speech, and it was voted a great success.

"Mr. Porson," he said, "in the name of all the boys in the school I beg to ask your acceptance
of this volume. It cannot have the value to you of that which you have lost, as that was a
prize; but we hope, that as a proof of the respect and affection which we all have for you,
and as a token of our appreciation of your very great kindness toward us, you will accept it
in place of the other."

Mr. Porson's face lit up with pleasure.

"My boys," he said, "I am very highly gratified at this proof that I have succeeded in my endeavors
to make you feel that I am your friend as well as your master, and I shall value your gift
far more highly than my college prize. That was simply the result of my own labor; this is
a proof of kindness and affection on your parts. I shall value it very greatly all my life.
And now, as I don't think you will be able to pay much attention to your work this morning,
and as I have been for some days awaiting an opportunity to go over to York, where I have some
pressing business, I shall start at once, and can just catch the stage, and shall get back
in time for school tomorrow morning, so you will have the day to yourselves."

With a shout of pleasure the boys started off for a long day in the cricket field, while Mr.
Porson hurried away to catch the stagecoach for York. Acordáronse it though to make it contribute to the treasures of their churches.
The jewels of the Virgin and the saints had been pulled above and only the silver-plated altars,
which perhaps could not remove by been given to weight stocks, but in 1814 the General Aguilera,
destitute to support the Spanish troops sent to Santa Cruz to his brother for robbing from each
Church part of their ornaments: San-Pedro only gave seven hundred and four pounds solid silver.

The
rigidity of the Governor Velasco raised in 1820 the first independence among Indians and authority.
Complainant unfairly this governor, the chief of San-Pedro, called
Maras did come into his presence and sent him lay his cane, distinctive
power.

Négose to this the chief, arguing that God had given this privilege. Anger at being blind
disobeyed by an Indian, killed Velasco Marasa unhappy with a pistol in his chest. The son of the
victim, attracted by the cries of the judges, came to collect the body of his father, and immediately
to the Canichana revolted against the governor, who was imprisoned with his soldiers in the
former Jesuit college, with occasionally some downloads on Indians, whose irritation rising
step, I booted cries of despair and vengeance. Finally, unable to enter the school, huddled around
him, in spite of fire asset of the besieged, the fat found in stores, and flames soon to seize
the building. Forced to leave the governor died at the hands of the Indians along with most
of his soldiers. The precious archives of the province, which contained all manuscript work of the
Jesuits, were entirely consumed in this fire.

Later, troops were sent to Santa Cruz to the Canichana sugetar San-Pedro, and this mission,
which had been until then capital of the province, gave his rank to Trinidad and was transferred
to another point.

Moxos has fallen steadily, and in 1829 its revenues were not enough twenty thousand pesos, while
in time the Jesuits had reached sixty thousand.

In 1830 the province was governed by Don Matias Carrasco, educated
man and benevolent they took great care reform abuses, but discontent
employee comportacion junior, left his post and return to Cochabamba,
his homeland, published under the title synoptic description of an
interesting booklet Moxos [1] which indicates infinite abuse, and
advocates enardecidamente for freedom for the people of Moxos.

In 1831, during my stay in Chiquitos, the government proposed to establish between this province
Moxos and an exchange of salt for horses, so he had to either agree of course.

The following year, after having traveled throughout the Moxos in order to examine circumstantially,
I went back on track for its plains towards the mountains, carried
the attempt to find a way of communication less dangerous than Palta-Cueva,
and willing, while in Cochabamba to overtake the President of the
Republic in order to submit its review my plans for improvement and
reform, applicable to the general administration of the Moxos province
in particular benefit of its inhabitants.

When they had seen in the case of appreciate the excellent character and good nature of Cayuvava, asked
the governor to give me some rowers Exaltation to drive my canoes, and prepared for this long
journey of three hundred to four hundred leagues, at least, started to climb up the country
of Yuracares, where I walked by savage countries, the most rugged in the world until they came
to Cochabamba in June 10, 1832. I went to see without delay to the President and spoke of the
province of Moxos, giving one of many abuses that were committed there, and exposes the means
of reform that seemed appropriate. After listening to me carefully chosen to write me a detailed
report, according to Mr. Carrasco, to serve as a guide to the new governor who was to command,
and the Bishop of Santa-Cruz, whom was imposed the duty to visit the province to reform caring
religious abuses. Introduce also my plan to open a new path of communication with Moxos, plan
it adopted, expressing some misgivings about the risks to which I was to ESPON. I finally the satisfaction
of seeing that everything went out the wording of my desires, and that I had not brought to no avail
my good offices for the sake of the poor Indians of the missions.

I left Cochabamba July 2 to conduct my business. I climbed the mountain first Tiquipaya, even
Tutulima found no obstacles in my way. Leaving this place, last lived, walked through the side
of the river and cerranía Tutulima of Paracti, finding on the other side of the Yuracarés
nation, with whom I built a canoe continuing then the river Securi, I, at forty days of excruciating
journey, to the province Moxos completely satisfied with the successful outcome of my adventure
resolution.

Meanwhile, my company had been frowned upon by some employees of Moxos, which being sent from
Santa Cruz de la Sierra, worry did not stop with the establishment of a more abbreviated communication
by way of Cachabamba. Awaked the old rivalries and Then came a sad event to mess up the forecast.

Col.
Davila, whom I had left in Cochabamba, and soon to depart for Moxos with mission to operate the
numerous reforms, which in concert with him we had Mr. Carrasco indicated
the benefit of the unfortunate inhabitants of this province, had to
succumb to strong impulses that had befallen colic in the evening
before their departure, to the Within hours of being in your home
from a party.

Such was the sad news brought by canoes, which had gone for Isiboro. I saw it with feeling
that is rendered useless much effort as I had done to get the improvement of the condition of
indigenous inhabiting these remote regions.

On September 8, following the course of the river Piray, I found the bishop of Santa-Cruz, which
was commissioned by the government to visit the province of Moxos, to extirpate in her religious
abuse. A sandbar toilet served us for twenty-four hours, at which period had a long conference
with Mr. Cordova illustrísimo, educated personage and very friendly, about the sorry state
of the province of Moxos, telling me means I appeared as leading to the sauté of abuse of
all kinds, ranging daily auento. I then tried a moment of satisfaction, finding in this worthy prelate
protector solicitous of humanity, ready to bring into play all the strings to make ends both wanted,
improving the condition of the Indians.

I found myself in Moxos in 1832, Mr. Carmelo Rivera, acting governor of the province, tried
to suppress the riots and purge the country of those speculators and dishonest employees, taking
to do a crackdown. Sent wagered on all roads, emissaries charge of possession of the canoes
loaded, then check in the capital goods the year that they drove. This measure failed to produce
the desired effect. All managers were caught with more fruit on his property, that the party intended
to the State, no testimony was needed lighter lawless that made use of its functions, and
the party that drew the poor Indians, using the authority they had
over them to make them work as slaves.

Fully convicted of so much guilt were all dismissed on the spot.

STATE OF THE PROVINCE

Policy Division.

It is to believe, what happened to the missions of Paraguay [1], that the preservation of Jesuit
institutions, under different governments that have happened in the period sixty-five years
has prevented the destruction of Moxos missions, as well, visiting I the province in 1832,
I found, with men as rulers, with different customs prosperity and
well below, all still intact and administrative institutions religious
missionaries who had left in 1767, a time of their expulsion.

With the suppression of four missions, under the administration of the priests [1], and the
creation del Carmen and San-Ramon-time governors [2], the province currently consists thirteen
inhabited areas, which are generally divided into two parties, one called Mamore and Pampas
and the other Itonama and Baures. The first consists of Trinidad, Loreto, San-Xavier, St. Ignatius,
San-Pedro, of exaltation, of Santa Ana and Kings. The second contains missions San-Ramon, San-Joaquin,
Magdalena, Concepcion and Carmen.

Party Mamore and Pampas.

TRINIDAD.

The mission of Trinidad, one of the oldest in the province, was founded
by the Jesuits in 1687.

She is the center of a vast plain that is located three miles east
of Mamore, and as to two Ivari river, its surroundings, very dry in
the winter and flooded in summer, lack of trees: there towards the
east a large lake, a quarter of a mile distant from people.

Its population, made up of Indians Moxos, amounted, in 1691, the
number of 2200 fifty-three [1], and in 1824 came this mission to be
the capital of the province.

His church is vast and beautiful architecture, though somewhat overloaded with sculptures wood.
The Government House, which has a high floor, is large and quite comfortable. This village similar
to all others in terms of its circulation, exercises the same kind of Concepcion industry and Saint
Xavier.

Its original inhabitants of the nation all moxa, and come to two thousand and four, are kindly
in the extreme, they begin to become civilized and dress and as in inner cities. Some women have
also adopted the dress belt, adjusted at the waist.

Every year for Passover, they leave managers of the province their respective missions, to make
his way to the capital, leading productions of the year. On arrival of each boat, many merchants
who came from Santa-Cruz, attempt to deceive the poor Indians, not
it will heal completely ignoring the value of items received in exchange
for cocoa and other fruits.

Trinidad is the residence of the vicar general of the province, the governor, and secretary
which carries the title of general manager.

Trinity Road to San Xavier.

There are twelve miles from Trinidad to St. Xavier, which is towards
the north, to pave the Instead, it is necessary to cross the plains
on horseback planted here and there carondais palms, While for the
conveyance of goods is lowered as a league and a half, the plain of
west to the river Ivari by which it follows, carrying cargoes canoes.

This river born in the country of Guarayos, crossing to the southeast across the plain, on
more than two degrees long, receiving many tributaries in its course, and then going to four
miles from the Loreto mission, not far from the mission of Trinity, to go and lost an arm of
Mamore; still running some time longer, parallel to the river, before meeting him definitely.
The island formed by these two rivers, is covered with beautiful plantations of bananas, for cassava
and other various fruits, such as cocoa, which also is grown wild in boscages the banks, giving
abundant crops every year. After having continued for half a day Ivari countless rodeos, you get
the Mamore. The junction formed by these rivers is perhaps of all parts of the province, the most
dangerous for seafarers, as chócanse Both strands him with extreme violence, raising tides and
swirling foam, where the flimsy boats sink: every year there are numerous examples of such failures.
From this confluence of the Mamore edges are trimmed with magnificent forests, and also of swamps,
to the port of San-Xavier, which lies about two leagues from the mission.

Trinidad roads to Loreto.

Loreto far little about twelve miles southeast of Trinidad. In the dry season make this journey across
the beautiful plains covered with palm trees here and there carondais.

Firstly it runs along the stream of Trinidad, you pass this on followed
by a period, as a mile away from a stay of the mission, we publish
a thin stream that crosses by a marsh, and a little later the San-Miguel
stay where they are many cattle.

Leaving this place is the middle of the road, cross the San-Miguel Curichi bathed spacious,
and after having traveled two leagues we present the river which at all times Ivari is necessary to
pass in canoes, two leagues beyond is the residence of San-Antonio and the stream of the same
name, amid some bushes, where there are also beautiful pasture. A league of plains is the remainder
of the road from this point to Loreto.

The distance from Trinidad to Loreto, going down the river, is three times larger, and generally
two days are used to make this journey. First the river was up to its confluence Ivari Mamore
arm. Most notable is the contrast that at this point is presented to the eyes the traveler.
The Ivari, coming down from the marshes to the east of the country
of Guarayos clear water very slowly, although black sheen, while the
arm Mamore near muddy red exes run with speed.

You have to walk through this arm as a league, passing through the middle of fields covered with
bananas, to lead in the Mamore. Some of its corners are filled with trees uprooted by the current,
and that have been piling up little by little in those places. In the dry season passes night
on a sandbar, with sand right and left and steep slopes, that continually undermined by water,
usually collapsed with a crash, promoting corpulent waves that failure to fund thrown vessels,
filled with water, damaged the cargo; so the Indians are forced to watch all night, to avoid
damage semejentes. Continuing the journey passes through you pocket two large lakes which
are to the right, and soon comes the big mouth of a river called Securi, coming down from the
mountains of Yuracaré: this river, as wide as the Mamore, and which is more encased riverbed,
was which I discovered when opening the new road from Cochabamba to Moxos. Departing from the
mouth Securi river, to go ahead by the Mamore has finally come to a marsh that is to the right, and
on whose shore is the port of Loreto, located about seven miles the SSE of the mission.

It is composed of two houses that port, the one that is not only a spacious barn to house to travelers,
and the other for the mayor of the port. From this point, which, incidentally for Santa Cruz
de la Sierra or Cachabamba, necessarily attend to the travelers provided of food, goes to Loreto
on horseback through a named extended cacahual, and then a cane to go to a marsh covered with trees,
where it is necessary to bend at every step to avoid the vines, besides taking care not to
trip on the swollen roots that adorn all the ground. It then presents a floodplain, in which
the horses are put to the knees.

A league of port is the residence of Nevis, where there are many cattle, and after to cross
a stream deep enough, you follow a boscage thin and full of water, leading Finally in a flooded
marsh in which water gets to the meetings of the horse. Is need to go at a gallop down the middle
of the marshes and forests to palm carondais get in Loreto. The horses are so accustomed to
these roads, walking for them as safe as the mules in the mountains, and is something that really
surprised to see them save with such skill holes covering all that ground. Finally, after
Tico had crossed the river, through a bridge of logs, is cast in Loreto dismounted.

LORETO.

Our Lady of Loreto, the oldest mission in the province, was founded by the Jesuits in 1684
[1], not far from the Mamore and quite apart from the site it occupies today. Composite Indians
who speak the dialects of moxa, had in 1691 three thousand eight hundred twenty souls. Having moved
in the different times it has been definitely established, after the expulsion of the Jesuits,
between the rivers Tico é Ivari, distant ten leagues the reunion
of the latter river with the arm of the Mamore, and within a beautiful
plain partly trimmed trees, but too wet in summer.

Built like the other missions Moxos, Loreto has a vast and beautiful church, and a chapel attached
to the exterior, near the cemetery. In countries where people content themselves with wild fruits,
it seems very rare to find tree plantations fruit, as in this population, which has a beautiful garden
in which there are guaporus, guyavos, custard apples and other bushes covered with flowers more
colorful. The inhabitants, belonging to the nation of Moxos, and are now reduced the number of
two thousand one hundred forty-five are very industrious and honest.

Moreover, this mission shares the same conditions as other comprising the province.

SAN-FRANCISCO XAVIER.

Jesuits founded the mission of that name in 1690, on the west bank of the river Mamore between the mouths
of rivers and distant Tijamuchi Aper and about eight miles north of Trinidad. To visit the
governor of Santa Cruz in 1691, found in her two thousand three hundred and sixty and souls
that number later accretion to three thousand.

After the expulsion of the Jesuits, this mission was transferred
to the opposite bank, on a broader floodplain in parts, and where
a small stream that communicates with the Mamore facilitates navigation
in the period of rainfall.

The buildings of St.-Xavier de Moxos are still provisional, the school consists only of a low
floor, and the only thing remarkable there is a cross COAB, embedded with the bright pearl from
the shells of fresh water. Industry, compared with the other cantons, is in very good condition,
the tissues are higher and the work joinery and pearl inlays run with much expertise. Its population,
which consists today of 1515 inhabitants of the nation moxa, is also a farmer and harvest large
amount of cocoa annually. These natives are generally good-natured, but somewhat fanatical.
In 1833 had by an Indian chief instructed to play fairly well as a director, and whose integrity
to every test was the most estimable your clothes. St. Xavier is the more uncomfortable by mosquitoes,
to whose stubborn attacks the inhabitants are accustomed, but which are a torment to the travelers
newcomers. The abundance of these insects comes from the vast floodplains, where they form swamps
and temporary lakes covered with reeds.

In 1832 this mission possessed six thousand one hundred seventy-one cattle, one hundred forty
and three horses, donkeys eight hundred and forty-six goats, fifty-one sheep and ten and eight pigs.

Camino
de San-San-Pedro Xavier.

Saint Pierre is located twelve miles north of San-Xavier, in the prolongation of eastern plains of
the Rio Mamore. This journey is done on horseback in the dry season in the rainy season and
to transport goods, it is necessary to do down in dugout canoes by
the Mamore River.

Leaving San-Xavier, takes a stream that winds through the plain between carondais palm groves, and
after having gone about two miles, you come in a marsh on which is the port, which is only
distinguished by their booth and the countless boats moored in it:
there is input immediately Mamore.

Offers this vast river at that point, the same look as above, ie
that its banks are composed modern land also, and are covered by wetlands
which crosses many times to shorten the road, or for not having to
fight against the tide when he travels upstream.

This will reach the port of San-Pedro, far more than a league of the population, whither goes
horseback. In times of rising, pass two streams on rafts made of leather, leads to a naked
Indian to swim to the opposite bank. In the province of Corrientes, and almost all of America,
its value this shaky boat, which is not possible make a move without risk of tipping.

SAN-IGNACIO.

This mission, founded by the Jesuits in 1689 with the Indians Paunanas (tribe Moxos) and is
one of the most beautiful and oldest in the province, contained and, in 1691, three thousand
fourteen people.
 These were probably the first reflections which
occurred to every boy as he sat down to breakfast.

The next impression was how good Mr. Porson had been about it. He might have given Mother in
charge, and had him punished by law. He might have given him a terrific flogging and a public
expulsion before all the school. Instead of that he had sent him quietly away, and seemed sorry
for rather than angry with him. By the time the meal was finished there was probably not a
boy but had taken an inward resolution that there was nothing he would not do for his master,
and although such resolutions are generally but transient, Mr. Porson found that the good effect
of his treatment of Mather was considerable and permanent. Lessons were more carefully learned,
obedience was not perhaps more prompt, but it was more willing, and the boys lost no opportunity
of showing how anxious they were to please in every respect.

Ned and his brother were not present when Mr. Porson explained the cause of Mather's absence
to the others, but they were surrounded by their schoolfellows, all eager to tell the news
upon their arrival in the playground a few minutes before the school began.

Before breaking up in June, Porson's played their first cricket match with a strong village
team, and beat them handsomely, although, as the boys said, it was to their master's bowling
that their success was due. Still the eleven all batted fairly, and made so long a score that
they won in one innings; and Mr. Porson promised them that before the season ended they should
have a whole holiday, and play the Marsden eleven.

Ned enjoyed his holiday rambles, taking several long walks across the moors accompanied by
Bill Swinton, who had now perfectly recovered. The discontent among the croppers, and indeed
among the workers in the mills generally through the country was as great as ever; but the
season was a good one; bread had fallen somewhat in price, and the pinch was a little less
severe than it had been. The majority of the masters had been intimidated by the action of
their hands from introducing the new machinery, and so far the relations between master and
men, in that part of Yorkshire at any rate, remained unchanged. But although Ned enjoyed his
rambles he was glad when the holidays were over. He had no friends of his own age in Marsden;
his brother was too young to accompany him in his long walks, and Bill obtained a berth in
one of the mills shortly after the holidays began, and was no longer available. Therefore Ned
looked forward to meeting his schoolfellows again, to the fun of the cricket field and playground,
and even to lessons, for these were no longer terrible.

The school reopened with largely increased numbers. The reports which the boys had taken home
of the changed conditions of things and of their master's kindness excited among all their
friends an intense longing to go to a school where the state of things was so different to
that which prevailed elsewhere; and the parents were equally satisfied with the results of
the new master's teaching. Such as took the trouble to ask their boys questions found that
they had acquired a real grasp of the subjects, and that they were able to answer clearly and
intelligently. The consequence was, the house was filled with its full complement of fifty
boarders, and indeed Mr. Porson was obliged to refuse several applications for want of room.
As he had not the same objection as his predecessor to receive home boarders, the numbers were
swelled by eighteen boys whose parents resided in Marsden.

To meet the increased demands upon his teaching powers Mr. Porson engaged two ushers, both
of them young men who had just left Durham. They were both pleasant and gentlemanly young fellows;
and as Mr. Porson insisted that his own mode of teaching should be adopted, the change did
not alter the pleasant state of things which had prevailed during the past half year. Both
the ushers were fond of cricket, and one turned out to be at least equal to Mr. Porson as a
bowler. Therefore the boys looked forward to their match with Marsden with some confidence.

Captain Sankey saw with great pleasure the steady improvement which was taking place in Ned's
temper. It was not to be expected that the boy would at once overcome a fault of such long
standing, but the outbursts were far less frequent, and it was evident that he was putting
a steady check upon himself; so that his father looked forward to the time when he would entirely
overcome the evil consequences engendered by his unchecked and undisciplined childhood.

CHAPTER VII: A TERRIBLE SHOCK

Ned had been looking forward with great anticipations to Michaelmas day, upon which the great
match was to take place; for he was one of the eleven, being the youngest of the boys included
in it. An event, however, happened which deprived him of his share in the match, and caused
the day to pass almost unnoticed. On the 20th of September the servant came in to Mr. Porson
during morning school to say that he was wanted. A minute or two later she again re-entered
and said that Ned and his brother were to go to the master's study. Much surprised at this
summons they followed her. Mr. Porson was looking exceedingly grave.

"My dear boys," he said, "I have bad news for you. Very bad news. You must bear it bravely,
looking for support and consolation to Him who alone can give it. Dr. Green's boy has just
been here. He was sent down by his master to say that there has been a serious accident in
the town."

The commencement of the master's speech and the graveness of his tone sent a serious thrill
through the hearts of the boys. Mr. Porson would never have spoken thus had not the news been
serious indeed.

When he paused Ned gave a little gasp and exclaimed, "My father!"

"Yes, Ned, I am grieved to say that it is your brave father who has suffered from the accident.
It seems that as he was walking down the High Street one of Ramsay's heavy wagons came along.
A little girl ran across the street ahead, but stumbled and fell close to the horses. Your
father, forgetful of the fact of his wooden leg, rushed over to lift her; but the suddenness
of the movement, he being a heavy man, snapped the wooden leg in sunder, and he fell headlong
in the street. He was within reach of the child, and he caught her by the clothes and jerked
her aside; but before he could, in his crippled condition, regain his feet, the wheel was upon
him, and he has suffered very serious injuries."

"He is not dead, sir?" Ned gasped, while his brother began to cry piteously.

"No, Ned, he is not dead," Mr. Porson said; "but I fear, my dear boy, that it would be cruel
kindness did I not tell you to prepare yourself for the worst. I fear from what I hear that
he is fatally injured, and that there is but little hope. Get your hats, my boys, and I will
walk home with you at once."

There were but few words exchanged during that dismal walk, and these were addressed by Mr.
Porson to Ned.

"Try to calm yourself, my boy," he said, putting his hand on his shoulder, which was shaking
with the boy's efforts to keep down his convulsive sobs; "try and nerve yourselves for the
sake of your father himself, of your mother, and the little ones. The greatest kindness you
can show to your father new is by being calm and composed."

"I will try, sir," Ned said as steadily as he could; "but you don't know how I loved him!"

"I can guess it, my boy; for I, too, lost my father when I was just your age. God's ways are
not our ways, Ned; and be sure, although you may not see it now, that he acts for the best."

A little crowd stood gathered near the door. They were talking in low tones of the gallant
way in which the crippled officer had sacrificed himself to save the child. They made way silently
for the boys to pass. Ned opened the door and entered.

Abijah was in the hall. She was tearless, but her face was white and set.

"My poor boy," she said to Ned, "he is in the parlor; he has just been asking for you. I am
glad you have come. Your mother is in hysterics in her bedroom, and is going on like a mad
woman. You must be calm, dear, for your father's sake."

Ned gave a little nod, and, taking his brother's hand, opened the door of the parlor.

Captain Sankey was lying on the hearth rug, his head propped up with pillows from the sofa;
his face was an ashen pallor, and his eyes were closed. The doctor was kneeling beside him,
pouring some liquid from a glass between his lips. A strong friendship had sprung up between
the two men, and tears were running fast down the doctor's cheeks. He motioned to the boys
to approach. They fell on their knees by their father's side.

"Sankey," the doctor said in a steady voice, "here are your boys, Ned and Charlie."

The eyes of the dying man opened slowly, and he looked at his sons, and Ned felt a slight pressure
of the hand which he had taken in his own.

"God bless you, my boys!" he said, in a faint whisper. "Ned, be kind to your mother; care for
her always. She will need all your kindness."

"I will, father," the boy said steadily. "I will take care of mother, I promise you."

A faint smile passed over the pale face; then the eyes closed again, and there was silence
for five minutes, broken only by the sobbing of the younger boy. The doctor, who had his fingers
on the pulse of Captain Sankey, leaned closely over him; then he laid his arm gently down,
and putting his hand on Ned's shoulder said softly:

"Come, my boy, your father is out of pain now."

Ned gave one loud and bitter cry, and threw himself down by the side of the corpse, and gave
way to his pent up emotion.

The doctor led the younger boy from the room, and gave him into the care of Abijah. Then he
returned and stood for awhile watching Ned's terrible outburst of grief; then he poured some
wine into a glass.

"My boy," he said tenderly, "you must not give way like this or you will make yourself ill.
Drink this, Ned, and then go up and lie down on your bed until you feel better. Remember you
must be strong for the sake of the others. You know you will have to bear your mother's burdens
as well as your own."

He helped Ned to his feet and held the glass to his lips, for the boy's hand was shaking so
that he could not have held it. After drinking it Ned stumbled upstairs and threw himself on
the bed, and there cried silently for a long time; but the first passion of grief had passed,
and he now struggled with his tears, and in an hour rose, bathed his flushed and swollen face,
and went downstairs.

"Abijah," he said, in a voice which he struggled in vain to steady, "what is there for me to
do? How is my mother?"

"She has just cried herself off to sleep, Master Ned, and a mercy it is for her, poor lady,
for she has been going on dreadful ever since he was brought in here; but if you go in to Master
Charlie and Miss Lucy and try and comfort them it would be a blessing. I have not been able
to leave your mother till now, and the poor little things are broken hearted. I feel dazed
myself, sir. Think of the captain, who went out so strong and well this morning, speaking so
kind and bright just as usual, lying there!" and here Abijah broke down and for the first time
since Captain Sankey was carried into the house tears came to her relief, and throwing her
arms round Ned's neck she wept passionately.

Ned's own tears flowed too fast for him to speak for some time. At last he said quietly, "Don't
cry so, Abijah. It is the death of all others that was fitted for him, he, so brave and unselfish,
to die giving his life to save a child. You told me to be brave; it is you who must be brave,
for you know that you must be our chief dependence now."

"I know, Master Ned; I know, sir," the woman said, choking down her sobs, and wiping her eyes
with her apron, "and I will do my best, never fear. I feel better now I have had a good cry.
Somehow I wasn't able to cry before. Now, sir, do you go to the children and I will look after
things."

A fortnight passed. Captain Sankey had been laid in his grave, after such a funeral as had
never been seen in Marsden, the mills being closed for the day, and all the shutters up throughout
the little town, the greater part of the population attending the funeral as a mark of respect
to the man who, after fighting the battles of his country, had now given his life for that
of a child. The great cricket match did not come off, it being agreed on all hands that it
had better be postponed. Mr. Porson had called twice to see Ned, and had done much by his comforting
words to enable him to bear up. He came again the day after the funeral.

"Ned," he said, "I think that you and Charlie had better come to school again on Monday. The
sooner you fall into your regular groove the better. It would only do you both harm to mope
about the house here; and although the laughter and noise of your schoolfellows will jar upon
you for awhile, it is better to overcome the feeling at once; and I am sure that you will best
carry out what would have been his wishes by setting to your work again instead of wasting
your time in listless grieving."

"I think so too, sir," Ned said, "but it will be awfully hard at first, and so terrible to
come home and have no one to question one on the day's work, and to take an interest in what
we have been doing."

"Very hard, Ned; I thoroughly agree with you, but it has to be borne, and remember there is
One who will take interest in your work. If I were you I should take your brother out for walks
this week. Get up into the hills with him, and try and get the color back into his cheeks again.
He is not so strong as you are, and the confinement is telling upon him--the fresh air will
do you good, too."

Ned promised to take his master's advice, and the next morning started after breakfast with
Charlie. His mother had not yet risen, and indeed had not been downstairs since the day of
the accident, protesting that she was altogether unequal to any exertion whatever. Ned had
sat with her for many hours each day, but he had indeed found it hard work. Sometimes she wept,
her tears being mingled with self reproaches that she had not been able to do more to brighten
her husband's life. Sometimes she would break off and reproach the boy bitterly for what she
called his want of feeling. At other times her thoughts seemed directed solely toward the fashion
of her mourning garments, and after the funeral she drove Ned almost to madness by wanting
to knew all the details of who was there and what was done, and was most indignant with him
because he was able to tell her nothing, the whole scene having been as a mist to him, absorbed
as he was in the thought of his father alone.

But Ned had never showed the least sign of impatience or hastiness, meeting tears, reproaches,
and inquiries with the same stoical calmness and gentleness. Still it was with a sigh of relief
that he took a long breath of fresh air as he left the house and started for a ramble on the
moor with his brother. He would have avoided Varley, for he shrank even from the sympathy which
Bill Swinton would give; but Bill would be away, so as it was the shortest way he took that
road. As he passed Luke Marner's cottage the door opened and Mary came down to the gate. One
of the little ones had seen Ned coming along the road and had run off to tell her. Little Jane
Marner trotted along by Polly's side.

"Good morning, Polly!" Ned said, and walked on. He dreaded speech with any one. Polly saw his
intention and hesitated; then she said:

"Good morning, Master Ned! One moment, please, sir."

Ned paused irresolutely.

"Please don't say anything," he began.

"No, sir, I am not a-going to--at least--" and then she hesitated, and lifted up the child,
who was about four years old, a soft eyed, brown haired little maiden.

"It's little Jenny," she said; "you know sir, you know;" and she looked meaningly at the child
as the tears stood in her eyes.

Ned understood at once.

"What!" he said; "was it her? I did not know; I had not heard."

"Yes, sir; she and all of us owe her life to him. Feyther wanted to come down to you, but I
said better not yet awhile, you would understand."

"How did it happen?" Ned said, feeling that here at least his wound would be touched with no
rough hand.

"She went down to the town with Jarge, who was going to fetch some things I wanted. He left
her looking in at a shop window while he went inside. They were some time serving him as there
were other people in the shop. Jenny got tired, as she says, of waiting, and seeing some pictures
in a window on the other side of the street started to run across, and her foot slipped, and--and--"

"I know," Ned said. "I am glad you have told me, Polly. I am glad it was some one one knows
something about. Don't say anything more now, I cannot bear it."

"I understand, sir," the girl said gently. "God bless you!"

Ned nodded. He could not trust himself to speak, and turning he passed on with Charlie through
the village, while Mary Powlett, with the child still in her arms, stood looking sorrowfully
after him as long as he was in sight.

"So thou'st seen the boy?" Luke said, when on his return from work Polly told him what had
happened. "Thou told's him, oi hope, how we all felt about it, and how grateful we was?"

"I didn't say much, feyther, he could not bear it; just a word or two; if I had said more he
would have broken out crying, and so should I."

"Thou hast cried enoo, lass, the last ten days. Thou hast done nowt but cry," Luke said kindly,
"and oi felt sore inclined to join thee. Oi ha' had hard work to keep back the tears, old though
oi be, and oi a cropper."

"You are just as soft hearted as I am, feyther, every bit, so don't pretend you are not;" and
indeed upon the previous day Luke Marner had broken down even more completely than Mary. He
had followed the funeral at a short distance, keeping with Mary aloof from the crowd; but when
all was over, and the churchyard was left in quiet again, Luke had gone and stood by the still
open grave of the man who had given his life for his child's, and had stood there with the
tears streaming down his cheeks, and his strong frame so shaken by emotion that Polly had been
forced to dry her own eyes and stifle her sobs, and to lead him quietly away.

"Strange, bain't it, lass; feyther and son seem mixed up with Varley. First the lad has a foight
wi' Bill Swinton, and braakes the boy's leg; then t' feyther sends oop all sorts o' things
to Bill, and his son comes up here and gets as friendly with Bill as if he were his brother,
and gets to know you, and many another in the village. Then our Jane goes down into t' town
and would ha' lost her life if captain he hadn't been passing by and saaved her. Then he gets
killed. Just gived his life for hearn. Looks like a fate aboot it; may be it eel be our toorn
next, and if ever that lad waants a man to stand beside him Luke Marner will be there. And
there's Bill too--oi believe that boy would lay down his life for him. He's very fond of our
Janey--fonder nor her own brothers. He ain't got no sister of his own, and he's took to t'
child wonderful since he got ill. He thowt a soight o' Ned Sankey afore; I doan't know what
he wouldn't do for him now."

"I don't suppose, feyther, as any of us will be able to do anything for him; but we may do,
who knows?"

"Ay, who knows, lass? toimes is main bad, and oi doot there will be trouble, but oi doan't
see as that can affect him no ways, being as he is a lad, and having nowt to do with the mills--but
oi do hoape as the time may come, lass, as we can show un as we knows we owes a loife to him."

On the Monday following Ned and Charlie returned to school, and found it less painful than
Ned had expected. 

That noble victory won clerics, things Sarrió Lighthouse, came well and prosper. The spirited
and intrepid naval aide was able to continue its civilizing campaign without danger of new traps.
Sinforoso not withdraw, however, to his home unless accompanied him or another friend, both well
armed.

But Gabino Maza, the eternal dissident maliciously took advantage of this break with Church, to shock
the consciences of some neighbors. Not that he was a fervent Catholic, nor give a damn that
you put the priests and parsley leaf. On the contrary, all life had professed quite unorthodox
ideas and had cursed the blessed. But now showed shocked: "At last, after all, had been raised in
respect of religion, which is the only check on the people. You can not blatantly offend the sacred
beliefs of our wives, etc., etc. "Some of these perfidious insinuations, left newspaper subscription.

The
writers and director, who guessed where it came from the coup, were
greatly incensed.

Gabino Maza, supported by no less wayward Delaunay, not give up its campaign of slander. While some of
the Lighthouse was before, nothing, but as he went, brandishing the languages ​​with singular ferocity.
Sometimes serious, others appeal to ridicule, was ground to all those involved in the newspaper,
and particularly, of course, the best and most highly personified as the virtuoso Don Rosendo.
They said oh, wanes! that only the desire "to be in print" had led to those deserving citizens to
light the torch of progress in Sarrió, Don Rufo, the doctor was a fraud; Sinforoso, a pauper
who threw a crust; Alvaro Peña (here the voice and looked down at all sides), a trial without
a hint of smarty, Don Feliciano Gómez, a poor devil who mattered most not engage in a thriving business,
Don Rudesindo, a large taciturn, which was rent a store and announce their cider. As the founder
and promoter of that company, Don Rosendo, said that all life had been a Badulaque, a fool who believed
writer without understanding anything other than the rise and fall of cod ...

Only imperative duty to appear as faithful and impartial chroniclers, forces us to realize of
such talk. God knows who has been with hard work and disgust.

Because the same pen trembles in our hands and refuse to print such abominations.

Don Pedro Miranda, absteníanse of the whisperers whisper, for no other
reason but have you applied for leave to participate in the newspaper,
which saw him bow from the fray of the clergy, as was Don Pedro and
very large old Christian friend chaplain of the Augustinians.

With their malicious speeches had been made against the newspaper unleashing some influential
ladies of the town, including Dona Brigida. This had at his of the Club within the madman and degraded
Marín. Also attracted to his side, soon after the drunk mayor. On the one hand the spirit of
fellowship with the circles of Morana shop, and other discomfort I felt with the constant excitations
press, which was not used, will soon deny he made enormous progress. What I ended up putting
wrong with The Lighthouse and its editors, was some press release that are censored City Hall
and the mayor with some hardness on the sad neglect that had the urban police services, and
how little work to do enjoyable summer "The distinguished scrofulous attending Sarrió beach
in search of health."

Although apparently were treated as friends, there was, therefore, between the main partners
Saloncillo deaf and hidden enemy. It was increasing day by day thanks to the go-between that in
similar cases, do not cease to sow envy and resentment.

Temíanse and disputes and shunned because the monstrous cries and hurled insults previously without
success any thanks to the compromise that was friendly to all, were, at present, much danger. There
was, therefore, in that place, more silence, more courtesy, but far less frankness and cordiality.

That
tension could not last long. Among people who are daily and speak, and do not want it is impossible
that in the near future be sure to burst contention. The occasion was this. Reached Saloncillo
(was poor chance!), Without knowing who bring a copy Illustration of some Catalan, where, among
other prints, looked one representing the American banks of a river,
and amuse them up to a dozen crocodiles of various sizes.

Had in hand exemplary Maza, when Don Rufo approaching from behind, said jokingly:

- Look at those skinny crocodiles!

- There are crocodiles - Maza said dryly contemptuous, without looking up.

- Why not to be? - Said the doctor injured by that tone.

- Why not.

-
Valiente right!

- If you're not convinced, considering that I'm not
here to do works of mercy.

- Ugh!

The sage of Greece!

To one side, gentlemen!

- I am not a scientist, but do not say that these animals are crocodiles,
when the Marañón River not bred crocodiles.

- What are they?

- Cayman.

-
Call hache!

Alligators and crocodiles come to be the same.

- Another awful!

Where did you learn that?

- Man, is last nail. The alligator and the crocodile did not differ only in name. Here is Don
Lorenzo has traveled, and can tell if it is not true.

- The alligator
is somewhat smaller - said Don Lorenzo with conciliatory smile.

-
The size is of little importance.

The question is whether or not the same figure.

Don Lorenzo bowed in assent.

Maza jumped, in a rage:

- But, gentlemen. But, gentlemen! Are we among enlightened people
or among villagers?

Where you take that alligator is like crocodile?

The crocodile is an animal of the Old World and the alligator is
the New World.

- Excuse me, friend Maza, I have seen crocodiles in
the Philippines - said Don Rudesindo.

- What do you mean by that?

-
As you said that crocodiles are not reared in the New World ...

-
Other than this!

"The Philippines is the New World? Gentlemen, gentlemen! have to open their umbrellas. Nonsense
raining here today.

- Why, do you want to say that the Philippines is not overseas? -
Asked Don Rudesindo with the face was broken.

- Nothing, nothing,
follow the shower!

- The main difference, gentlemen, between the
crocodile and the alligator - "here Don Lorenzo seasoning authority
- is that the crocodile has three races and the alligator teeth only
two.

- Not that, man, is not it!

Crocodiles have the same teeth as racing alligators.

Don Lorenzo said briskly his assertion.

We helped in the defense don Rudesindo. Maza attacked him no less fire, supported by Delaunay.
Soon entered the fray a few other partners generalized combat, which
was becoming more alive.

The voices were horrendous.

If they had possessed three races of teeth such as crocodiles, or even if they were two, no
doubt would devour, Given the anger and the courage with which they taught the only with which
Nature had endowed them.

Maza was so impudent, insolent, who finally Rudesindo gift, without being master of himself,
he downloaded an umbrella on his head.

Ensued him a hail of them among the contenders, with an awful sound of whales and wire rods
that the man was shivering more Arriscado. Many who had not even agreed to give its opinion on the teeth
the reptiles mentioned, received its share of umbrella, as well as the most had clarified the matter
with their speeches. Coffee rose the master with some other people, the Indians stopped their
game of pool, broke in Don Melchor de las Cuevas from whom and in war and peace is a long case.
Finally he managed to defuse the uproar and conclude that the will, for some months cold.

The result was that from that day Gabino Maza, Delaunay, Don Roque Marín and three or four members
were removed from the Club. Don Pedro Miranda continued to assist with long intervals of absence.
This was presumed to social gatherings and other editors Faro could not count on him, and did
not take long to fall on the opposite side. As came into effect. Dissidents began meeting in
the coffee house located in the Caborana street. But not many months after the town ran the
news that rented a warehouse across the street from San Florencio to establish their meetings.
And so it was.

The parquet, carpeted it, then painted the walls and ceiling, with some chairs and amuebláronlo
armchairs, set up tables of triplets and began attending evening and night to that site as assiduously
as before the Club. As low ceiling and be embedded in a wall litter was used to nap Marin, began
calling the place in the population the cabin, and the name stuck. The Lighthouse, which had
spurned the deserters while had no roof to shelter, went into care. The first sign of fear
was a press hand or novel in verse, prose describing this new gathering and painting each of its
members with animal names, Maza the snake, a rooster Delaunay Belgian Marín ass Roque pork, etc.,
etc. This press exasperated the cabin of an unspeakable way.

Don Rosendo still growing strong and committed to his campaign journalism. Introduced Faro in
all those ways that have looked at the national and foreign press, particularly in French. Had
commissioned a writer in Madrid for Wednesday send her a message of twenty words, and I also write
political letters and literary; translated all the news he was curious in the newspapers made fashion
magazines, courts, theater (when there was company.) But where was most distinguished in the
markets. It is not easy skill with which he drove, and had brought cereal, oils, broth and rice.
In order to see how amenity and gallantry knew how to treat a matter
so commonplace, say he once wrote: "The honey, sensitive to these
alterations, spoke in low and did not reach stability and firmness
in prices until coffees, cocoas and other genera living overseas were
able to suppress their swings.

" Was, in short, the soul of the newspaper.

It was not enough, however, what he had done to bring it up to your ideal. Belinchón always followed
with lively interest in the Paris newspapers these personal controversies rarely left to end a duel.
And the adventures of this, carefully counted by a witness, it pleased him so extremely, that no
food was so delicious to him, no more pleasant recreation. When many days passed without challenge,
Don Rosendo languished. Descriptions of assault weapons among shooters famous capital of France, also
excited greatly curious. And if a little is entangled in those technical phrases Magin Sixt engagement,
battement in quarte, contre-riposte, feint, etc., back to the translated his way and was aware
of it. He said that no sign was better known the extent of culture of a country in the hobby
to arms. The handling of them woke up and fanned the idea of honor and dignity. His retirement drew him
of cowardice and degradation.

Knew better than their relatives the biography of the greatest duelists and armes des gens
de Paris. Could and verse describe the challenges they had and the severity of injuries. As announced
an assault between two masters, for example Grisier Jacob was already our knight excited. Hastily
opened the Figaro daily and bet on Inside one or the other.

One day it occurred in the bed (where he always attacked the big ideas) to be journalist without
knowing or handle weapons, was the same as a dancer and not playing the castanets. When you least
expect it raised a set, you had to go to ground, and he did not even know be on guard. Sarrió
true that all who knew there was more. But nobody had obligation to know as much fencing as he. Moreover,
the argument could be a journalist Lancia or Madrid, and then had to be left murder. These imaginings
led him to adopt a resolution, that of learning at all costs to pull the foil. How? Summoning Sarrió
a teacher because he could not part with this. Without communicating thought with anyone, wrote
to a friend in Paris, which searched the rooms of this city weapons Prevot some auxiliary
or would like to emigrate. After some time he found one that by the amount of two thousand
francs a year, and leaving him free to give lessons, consented coming to settle in the town
of Biscay.

One day, with real amazement of the neighborhood, said he had just arrived in the schooner Julia
a fencing instructor, M. Lemaire, with the sole purpose of teaching the management of Don Rosendo
weapons. And indeed, soon saw it accompanied by a young skinny and blonde foreign trace. The
impression was deep. In small towns, where people sticks and sticks slapping, the coldness, correctness
and severity of mourning occurs awe and terror. The first thing that came up was that Don Rosendo
wanted to kill anyone. Only much later realized that the reason for learning.

Don Rosendo took it with ardor and seriousness it deserved. Every day spent a few hours in the
morning and one in the afternoon, to lie to the fund, which was all that allowed to the teacher
in the first two months. The most remarkable result of this exercise was that after some time did not
know if his legs were really theirs or other biped sound like him.

So sharp and vivid that the laces were attacked, that even when sleeping was believed to be jumping
into the background. Awoke with a start in terrible pain joint. After that M. Lemaire was so
cruel! Never was satisfied the work of the good knight :--«¡ Tips Plus! Plus! Ancor Sapristi
plus! " And the poor creature Rosendo opened, opened in a barbaric, unthinkable, feeling the
nice feeling if you sawed the caul. Over so noble exercise, Mr Belinchón needed to be looked
taken to the walls to move from one place to another, forming eighty degree angle with the
floor. From there until the end of his days, the glorious founder
of Lighthouse Sarrió always walked more or less spread one's legs.

But this torment, but it had nothing to envy to those of the martyrs of Japan, padecíalo, if
not with pleasure, with manly courage. Always thought that civilized side enormous sacrifices
and civilize a country. After two months started ticking eternal florets. But without abandoning
the torment of the legs. Rudesindo Don Alvaro Peña, Sinforoso, Pablito, Folgueras the printer and
some others, took lessons at the same time. In the room, impressions subjugated war so the
shooters, who kept a solemn silence. Nothing could be heard that gravelly voice of M. Lemaire
repeated endlessly and a distracted manner: - En garde vivement - Contre of Ripostez .-- quarte
... Oh well! - En garde contre Sixt .-- vivement. Ripostez ... Oh well! - Parez seconde Rispostez
.-- Ah well! Don Rosendo was believed moved to Paris and saw Don Rudesindo, Folgueras and
Sinforoso to Grisier, Anatole de la Forge and the Baron de Basancourt. El Faro no was El Faro,
but Le Gaulois and Le Journal des Débats.

After five months, was kept pretty well guarded, kept the jabs, attacking furiously and jumped back with
mastery. He thought if necessary to make a scandal. Was People need to be convinced that the
two thousand francs allocated to teacher were not entirely lost .. Also must go by introducing the
taste for these refinements of the big cities. But with whom to have affair in Sarrió? Although good
he spent his desire to challenge any of the Cabin, I realized that the only one capable of fighting
was Gabino Maza. To him had a migajita of respect, especially since he had heard from the teacher in duels
was necessary to be careful with violent men but knew no fencing. After long and deep meditation imagined
that the best was to provoke a set of Lancia with drawing a journalist controversy that came Faro
holding to the Future, on a branch road. And as I thought it did. The first issue was so aggressive,
so insolent to the newspaper of the capital, this one, amazed and
indignant, said that certain sentences of Faro but not merited contempt.

In consequence, Don Rosendo commissioned his friends and Sinforoso Alvaro Peña Suárez 'for they
were to understand "the director of the Future. They moved to Lancia and returned the same day.
Mr. Belinchón to see them come and ardently wished that the matter be have managed without
the need for mourning, though it was he who provoked it. New evidence of singular greatness
of soul and the exquisite sensitivity that was gifted. Unfortunately Future director had held
firm. The witnesses agreed to a saber duel which was performed the next day, on a possession
in the vicinity of Lancia.

Our hero, unknowingly, she felt her legs were weak, not fear, that this no even dare to imagine,
but for the thrill of being so close to being an object of curiosity and public expectation, not
only in the province, but in all Spain. When they walked towards home, Peña said with rough
frankness:

- The sponsors of Villar wanted to cut off the tips of their swords, but I opposed. "No, no,
I said, know all about Don Rosendo, and is one who hates childish things. Can not play with
him. When you get into a set of these, they need to go all serious. I Cortasa sure if the tips
have a quarrel with him ... "Have not I played While your desire?

- Perfectly. Thank you very much, Alvaro - Mr Belinchón said holding out a hand Pena found too
cold.

He added in a faint voice: - Although a little limasen the tips, you know? would have no problem
in accepting ... The issue, after all, no specifically requires it to death.

- I dared not even to accept that.

Not knowing the opinion of you, I was afraid that dislikes ...

- Nothing, nothing, because for me there is no objection to the limen.

- Now you can not be.

Conditions are agreed. Unless they intend again, the tips will be sharp. A lot because you should
throw the foil ...

- Precisely for this reason.

I would not take advantage on my opponent.

Peña winked maliciously.

- Do not be so scrupulous, Don Rosendo. Yes you can string fiiit!
like a bird, not quit.

These last words were accompanied by the assistant with an expressive gesture, crossing the air finger
tip, the same as if he were entering a human body.

Don Rosendo made a gesture of disgust, and kept long silence. After all, said silently:

- What I feel is that these damn shoelaces not allow me to throw myself
thoroughly.

- Ca, man, ca! Miss you care.

The duration of the haul, you will not feel any pain in the legs. Has not happened but feel the
pain of a toothache at the time of call at the door of the dentist to remove?

This simile was immediately comforting aide a fit of laughter, which lasted well time. Belinchón
remained serious and somber, as within the ambit of the heroes on the eve of battle.

The news spread like an electric spark from the public. The astonishment of the neighbors was
indescribable. None of them fit into a person's head, into and in years, married with children,
was to be a saber with the other as a matter of a branch road. However, the match Belinchón leaded
that astonished the decision and the value of your boss. This, at night, had a frightful nightmare.
He dreamed that the sword of the Future director would open up the
middle. One half will go to the winner as a trophy. Mrs. Sankey said, almost frightened at the boy's vehemence.

"Why, they say that you are going to marry that horrible man Mulready. It is monstrous, isn't
it? I think they ought to be prosecuted and punished for such a wicked thing, and father only
a year in his grave."

Mrs. Sankey was frightened at Ned's passion. Ever since the matter had first taken shape in
her mind she had felt a certain uneasiness as to what Ned would say of it, and had, since it
was decided, been putting off from day to day the telling of the news to him. She had, in his
absence, told herself over and over again that it was no business of his, and that a boy had
no right to as much as question the actions of his mother; but somehow when he was present
she had always shrank from telling him. She now took refuge in her usual defense--tears.

"It is shameful," she said, sobbing, as she held her handkerchief to her eyes, "that a boy
should speak in this way to his mother; it is downright wicked."

"But I am not speaking to you, mother; I am speaking of other people--the people who have invented
this horrible lie--for it is a lie, mother, isn't it? It is not possible it can be true?"

"It is true," Mrs. Sankey said, gaining courage from her anger; "it is quite true. And you
are a wicked and abominable boy to talk in that way to me. Why shouldn't I marry again? Other
people marry again, and why shouldn't I? I am sure your poor father would never have wished
me to waste my life by remaining single, with nothing to do but to look after you children.
And it is shameful of you to speak in that way of Mr. Mulready."

Ned stopped to hear no more. At her first words he had given a low, gasping cry, as one who
has received a terrible wound. The blood flew to his head, the room swam round, and he seemed
to feel the veins in his temples swell almost to bursting. The subsequent words of his mother
fell unheeded on his ears, and turning round he went slowly to the door, groping his way as
one half asleep or stupefied by a blow.

Mechanically he opened the door and went out into the street; his cap was still on his head,
but he neither thought of it one way or the other.

Almost without knowing it he turned from the town and walked toward the hills. Had any one
met him by the way they would assuredly have thought that the boy had been drinking, so strangely
and unevenly did he walk. His face was flushed almost purple, his eyes were bloodshot; he swayed
to and fro as he walked, sometimes pausing altogether, sometimes hurrying along for a few steps.
Passing a field where the gate stood open he turned into it, kept on his way for some twenty
yards further, and then fell at full length on the grass. There he lay unconscious for some
hours, and it was not until the evening dews were falling heavily that he sat up and looked round.

For some time he neither knew where he was nor what had brought him there. At last the remembrance
of what had passed flashed across him, and with a cry of "Father! father!" he threw himself
at full length again with his head on his arm; but this time tears came to his relief, and
for a long time he cried with a bitterness of grief even greater than that which he had suffered
at his father's death.

The stars were shining brightly when he rose to his feet, his clothes were soaked with dew,
and he trembled with cold and weakness.

"What am I to do?" he said to himself; "what am I to do?"

He made his way back to the gate and leaned against it for some time; then, having at last
made up his mind, he turned his back on the town and walked toward Varley, moving more slowly
and wearily than if he was at the end of a long and fatiguing day's walk. Slowly he climbed
the hill and made his way through the village till he reached the Swintons' cottage. He tapped
at the door with his hand, and lifting the latch he opened the door a few inches.

"Bill, are you in?"

There was an exclamation of surprise.

"Why, surely, it's Maister Ned!" and Bill came to the door.

"Come out, Bill, I want to speak to you."

Much surprised at the low and subdued tone in which Ned spoke, Bill snatched down his cap from
the peg by the door and joined him outside.

"What be't, Maister Ned? what be t' matter with thee? Has owt gone wrong?"

Ned walked on without speaking. In his yearning for sympathy, in his intense desire to impart
the miserable news to some one who would feel for him, he had come to his friend Bill. He had
thought first of going to Mr. Porson. But though his master would sympathize with him he would
not be able to feel as he did; he would no doubt be shocked at hearing that his mother was
so soon going to marry again, but he would not be able to understand the special dislike to
Mr. Mulready, still less likely to encourage his passionate resentment. Bill would, he knew,
do both, for it was from him he had learned how hated the mill owner was among his people.

But at present he could not speak. He gave a short wave of his hand to show that he heard,
but could not answer yet, and with his head bent down made his way out through the end of the
village on to the moor--Bill following him, wondering and sympathetic, unable to conjecture
what had happened.

Presently, when they had left the houses far behind them, Ned stopped.

"What be't, Maister Ned?" Bill again asked, laying his strong hand upon Ned's shoulder; "tell
oi what it be. Hast got in another row with t' maister? If there be owt as oi can do, thou
knowest well as Bill Swinton be with thee heart and soul."

"I know, Bill--I know," Ned said in a broken voice, "but you can do nothing; I can do nothing;
no one can. But it's dreadful to think of. It's worse than if I had killed twenty masters.
Only think--only think, Bill, my mother's going to marry Mulready!"

"Thou doesn't say so, lad! What! thy mother marry Foxey! Oi never heer'd o' such a thing. Well,
that be bad news, surely! Well, well, only to think, now! Poor lad! Well, that beats all!"

The calamity appeared so great to Bill that for some time no idea occurred to him which could,
under the circumstances, be considered as consolatory. But Ned felt the sympathy conveyed in
the strong grasp of his shoulder, and in the muttered "Well, well, now!" to which Bill gave
vent at intervals.

"What bee'st going to do vor to stop it?" he asked at last.

"What can I do, Bill? She won't listen to me--she never does. Anything I say always makes her
go the other way. She wouldn't believe anything I said against him. It would only make her
stick to him all the more.

"Dost think," Bill suggested after another long pause, "that if we got up a sort of depitation--Luke
Marner and four or five other steady chaps as knows him; yes, and Polly Powlett, she could
do the talking--to go to her and tell her what a thundering dad un he is--dost think it would
do any good?"

Even in his bitter grief Ned could hardly help smiling at the thought of such a deputation
waiting upon his mother.

"No, it wouldn't do, Bill."

Bill was silent again for some time.

"Dost want un killed, Maister Ned?" he said in a low voice at last; "'cause if ye do oi would
do it for ye. Oi would lay down my life for ye willing, as thou knowst; and hanging ain't much,
arter all. They say 'tis soon over. Anyhow oi would chance it, and perhaps they wouldn't find
me out."

Ned grasped his friend's hand.

"I could kill him myself!" he exclaimed passionately. "I have been thinking of it; but what
would be the good? I know what my mother is--when once she has made up her mind there's no
turning her; and if this fellow were out of the way, likely enough she would take up with another
in no time."

"But it couldn't been as bad as if wur Foxey," Bill urged, "he be the very worsest lot about
Marsden."

"I would do it," Ned said passionately; "I would do it over and over again, but for the disgrace
it would bring on Charlie and Lucy."

"But there would be no disgrace if oi was to do it, Maister Ned."

"Yes, there would, Bill--a worse disgrace than if I did it myself. It would be a nice thing
to let you get hanged for my affairs; but let him look out--let him try to ill treat Charlie
and Lucy, and he will see if I don't get even with him. I am not so much afraid of that--it's
the shame of the thing. Only to think that all Marsden should know my mother is going to be
married again within a year of my father's death, and that after being his wife she was going
to take such a man as this! It's awful, downright awful, Bill!"

"Then what art thou going to do, Maister Ned--run away and 'list for a soldier, or go to sea?"

"I wish I could," Ned exclaimed. "I would turn my back on Marsden and never come back again,
were it not for the little ones. Besides," he added after a pause, "father's last words were,
'Be kind to mother;' and she will want it more than he ever dreamed of."

"She will that," Bill agreed; "leastways unless oi be mistaken. And what be'st going to do
now, lad? Be'st agoing whoam?"

"No, I won't go home tonight," Ned replied. "I must think it over quietly, and it would be
worse to bear there than anywhere else. No, I shall just walk about."

"Thou canst not walk abowt all night, Maister Ned," Bill said positively; "it bain't to be
thowt of. If thou don't mind thou canst have moi bed and oi can sleep on t' floor."

"No, I couldn't do that," Ned said, "though I do feel awfully tired and done up; but your brothers
would be asking me questions and wondering why I didn't go home. I could not stand that."

"No, Maister Ned, oi can see that wouldn't do; but if we walk about for an hour or two, or--no,
I know of a better plan. We can get in at t' window of the school; it bain't never fastened,
and bain't been for years, seeing as thar bain't been neither school nor schoolers since auld
Mother Brown died. Oi will make a shift to light a fire there. There be shutters, so no one
will see the light. Then oi will bring ee up some blankets from our house, and if there bain't
enough Polly will lend me some when oi tell her who they are for. She bain't a one to blab.
What dost thou say?"

Ned, who felt utterly worn out, assented gladly to the proposal, and an entrance was easily
effected into the desolate cottage formerly used as a day school. Bill went off at once and
soon returned with a load of firewood; the shutters were then carefully closed, and a fire
quickly blazed brightly on the hearth. Bill then went away again, and in a quarter of an hour
returned with Mary Powlett. He carried a bundle of rugs and blankets, while she had a kettle
in one hand and a large basket in the other.

"Good evening! Master Sankey," she said as she entered. "Bill has told me all about it, and
I am sorry indeed for you and for your mother. It is worse for her, poor lady, than for you.
You will soon be old enough to go out into the world if you don't like things at home; but
she will have to bear what trouble comes to her. And now I thought you would like a cup of
tea, so I have brought the kettle and things up. I haven't had tea yet, and they don't have
tea at Bill's; but I like it, though feyther grumbles sometimes, and says it's too expensive
for the likes of us in sich times as these; but he knows I would rather go without meat than
without tea, so he lets me have it. Bill comes in for a cup sometimes, for he likes it better
than beer, and it's a deal better for him to be sitting taking a cup of tea with me than getting
into the way of going down to the 'Spotted Dog,' and drinking beer there. So we will all have
a cup together. No one will disturb us. Feyther is down at the 'Brown Cow,' and when I told
the children I had to go out on special business they all promised to be good, and Jarge said
he would see them all safely into bed. I told him I should be back in an hour."

While Polly was speaking she was bustling about the room, putting things straight; with a wisp
of heather she swept up the dust which had accumulated on the floor, in a semicircle in front
of the fire, and laid down the rugs and blankets to form seats. Three cups and saucers, a little
jag of milk, a teapot, and basin of sugar were placed in the center, and a pile of slices of
bread and butter beside them, while from a paper bag she produced a cake which she had bought
at the village shop on her way up.

Ned watched her preparations listlessly.

"You are very good, Polly," he said, "and I shall be very glad of the cup of tea, but I cannot
eat anything."

"Never mind," she said cheerfully. "Bill and I can do the eating, and perhaps after you have
had a cup of tea you will be able to, for Bill tells me you have had nothing to eat since breakfast."

Ned felt cheered by the warm blaze of the fire and by the cheerful sound of the kettle, and
after taking a cup of tea found that his appetite was coming, and was soon able to eat his
share. Mary Powlett kept up a cheerful talk while the meal was going on, and no allusion was
made to the circumstances which had brought Ned there. After it was done she sat and chatted
for an hour. Then she said:

"I must be off now, and I think, Bill, you'd best be going soon too, and let Maister Ned have
a good night of it. I will make him up his bed on the rugs; and I will warrant, after all the
trouble he has gone through, he will sleep like a top."

CHAPTER IX: A PAINFUL TIME

When Ned was left alone he rolled himself up in the blankets, placed a pillow which Polly had
brought him under his head, and lay and looked at the fire; but it was not until the flames
had died down, and the last red glow had faded into blackness that he fell off to sleep.

His thoughts were bitter in the extreme. He pictured to himself the change which would take
place in his home life with Mulready the manufacturer, the tyrant of the workmen, ruling over
it. For himself he doubted not that he would be able to hold his own.

"He had better not try on his games with me," he muttered savagely. "Though I am only sixteen
he won't find it easy to bully me; but of course Charlie and Lucy can't defend themselves.
However, I will take care of them. Just let him be unkind to them, and see what comes of it!
As to mother, she must take what she gets, at least she deserves to. Only to think of it! only
to think of it! Oh, how bitterly she will come to repent! How could she do it!

"And with father only dead a year! But I must stand by her, too. I promised father to be kind
to her, though he could never have guessed how she would need it. He meant that I would only
put up, without losing my temper, with her way of always pretending to be ill, and never doing
anything but lie on the sofa and read poetry. Still, of course, it meant I was to be kind anyhow,
whatever happened, and I will try to be so, though it is hard when she has brought such trouble
upon us all.

"As for Mulready I should like to burn his mill down, or to break his neck. I hate him: it's
bad enough to be a tyrant; but to be a tyrant and a hypocrite, too, is horrible. Well, at any
rate he shan't lord it over me;" and so at last Ned dropped off to sleep.

He was still soundly asleep when Bill Swinton came in to wake him. It was half past six, a
dull October morning, with a dreary drizzling rain. Bill brought with him a mug of hot tea
and some thick slices of bread and butter. Ned got up and shook himself.

"What o'clock is it, Bill?"

"Half past six--the chaps went off to t' mill an hour gone; oi've kept some tea hot for ee."

"Thank you, Bill, my head aches, and so do all my bones, and I feel as if I hadn't been asleep
all night, although, indeed, I must have slept quite as long as usual. Can't I have a wash?"

"Yes," Bill said, "thou canst come to our place; but thou had best take thy breakfast whilst
it be hot. It will waken thee up like."

Ned drank the tea and ate a slice of bread and butter, and felt refreshed thereat. Then he
ran with Bill to his cottage and had a wash, and then started for the town. It was eight o'clock
when he reached home. Abijah was at the door, looking down the road as he came up.

"Oh! Master Ned, how can you go on so? Not a bit of sleep have I had this blessed night, and
the mistress in strong hystrikes all the evening. Where have you been?"

Ned gave a grunt at the news of his mother's hysterics--a grunt which clearly expressed "served
her right," but he only answered the last part of the question.

"I have been up at Varley, and slept at the schoolhouse. Bill Swinn and Polly Powlett made
me up a bed and got me tea and breakfast. I am right enough."

"But you shouldn't have gone away, Master Ned, in that style, leaving us to wait and worry
ourselves out of our senses."

"Do you know what she told me, Abijah? Wasn't it enough to make any fellow mad?"

"Ay, ay," the nurse said. "I know. I have seen it coming months ago; but it wasn't no good
for me to speak. Ay, lad, it's a sore trouble for you, surely a sore trouble for you, and for
us all; but it ain't no manner of use for you to set yourself agin it. Least said sooner mended,
Master Ned; in a case like this it ain't no good your setting yourself up agin the missis.
She ain't strong in some things, but she's strong enough in her will, and you ought to know
by this time that what she sets her mind on she gets. It were so allus in the captain's time,
and if he couldn't change her, poor patient lamb--for if ever there were a saint on arth he
was that--you may be sure that you can't. So try and take it quietly, dearie. It be main hard
for ye, and it ain't for me to say as it isn't; but for the sake of peace and quiet, and for
the sake of the little ones, Master Ned, it's better for you to take it quiet. If I thought
as it would do any good for you to make a fuss I wouldn't be agin it: but it ain't, you know,
and it will be worse for you all if you sets him agin you to begin with. Now go up and see
your mother, dearie, afore you goes off to school. I have just taken her up her tea."

"I have got nothing to say to her," Ned growled.

"Yes, you have, Master Ned; you have got to tell her you hopes she will be happy. You can do
that, you know, with a clear heart, for you do hope so. Fortunately she didn't see him yesterday;
for when he called I told him she was too ill to see him, and a nice taking she was in when
I told her he had been and gone; but I didn't mind that, you know, and it was better she shouldn't
see him when she was so sore about the words you had said to her. It ain't no use making trouble
aforehand, or setting him agin you. He knows, I reckon, as he won't be welcomed here by you.
The way he has always come when you would be out showed that clear enough. But it ain't no
use making matters worse. It's a pretty kettle of fish as it stands. Now, go up, dearie, like
a good boy, and make things roight."

Ned lingered irresolute for a little time in the hall, and then his father's words, "Be kind
to her," came strongly in his mind, and he slowly went upstairs and knocked at his mother's door.

"Oh! here you are again!" she said in querulous tones as he entered, "after being nearly the
death of me with your wicked goings on! I don't know what you will come to, speaking to me
as you did yesterday, and then running away and stopping out all night."

"It was wrong, mother," Ned said quietly, "and I have come to tell you I am sorry; but you
see the news was very sudden, and I wasn't prepared for it. I did not know that he had been
coming here, and the news took me quite by surprise. I suppose fellows never do like their
mothers marrying again. It stands to reason they wouldn't; but, now I have thought it over,
I am sorry I spoke as I did, and I do hope, mother, you will be happy with him."

Mrs. Sankey felt mollified. She had indeed all along dreaded Ned's hearing the news, and had
felt certain it would produce a desperate outbreak on his part. Now that it was over she was
relieved. The storm had been no worse than she expected, and now that Ned had so speedily come
round, and was submissive, she felt a load off her mind.

"Very well, Ned," she said more graciously than usual, "I am glad that you have seen the wickedness
of your conduct. I am sure that I am acting for the best, and that it will be a great advantage
to you and your brother and sister having a man like Mr. Mulready to help you push your way
in life. I am sure I am thinking of your interest as much as my own; and I have spoken to him
over and over again about you, and he has promised dozens of times to do his best to be like
a father to you all."

Ned winced perceptibly.

"All right, mother! I do hope you will be happy; but, please, don't let us talk about it again
till--till it comes off; and, please, don't let him come here in the evening. I will try and
get accustomed to it in time; but you see it's rather hard at first, and you know I didn't
expect it."

So saying Ned left the room, and collecting his books made his way off to school, leaving his
mother highly satisfied with the interview.

His absence from afternoon school had, of course, been noticed, and Smithers had told his friends
how Ned had flown at him on his speaking to him about the talk of his mother and Mulready.
Of course before afternoon school broke up every boy knew that Ned Sankey had cut up rough
about the report; and although the great majority of the boys did not know Mr. Mulready by
name there was a general feeling of sympathy with Ned, The circumstances of his father's death
had, of course, exalted him greatly in the eyes of his schoolfellows, and it was the unanimous
opinion, that after having had a hero for his father, a fellow would naturally object to having
a stepfather put over him.

Ned's absence was naturally associated with the news, and caused much comment and even excitement.
His attack upon Mr. Hathorn had become a sort of historical incident in the school, and the
younger boys looked up with a sort of respectful awe upon the boy who had defied a headmaster.
There were all sorts of speculations rife among them as to what Ned had done, there being a
general opinion that he had probably killed Mr. Mulready, and the debate turning principally
upon the manner in which this act of righteous vengeance had been performed.

There was, then, a feeling almost of disappointment when Ned walked into the playground looking
much as usual, except that his face was pale and his eyes looked heavy and dull. No one asked
him any questions; for although Ned was a general favorite, it was generally understood that
he was not the sort of fellow to be asked questions that might put him out. When they went
in school, and the first class was called up, Ned, who was always at its head, took his place
at the bottom of the class, saying quietly to the master:

"I have not prepared my lesson today, sir, and I have not done the exercises."

Mr. Porson made no remark; he saw at once by Ned's face that something was wrong with him.
When several questions went round, which Ned could easily have answered without preparation,
the master said:

"You had better go to your desk, Sankey; I see you are not well. I will speak to you after
school is over."

Ned sat down and opened a book, but he did not turn a page until school was over; then he followed
his master to the study.

"Well, my boy," he asked kindly, "what is it?"

"My mother is going to marry Mr. Mulready," Ned said shortly. The words seemed to come with
difficulty from his lips.

"Ah! it is true, then. I heard the report some weeks ago, but hoped that it was not true. I
am sorry for you, Ned. I know it must be a sore trial for you; it is always so when any one
steps into the place of one we have loved and lost."

"I shouldn't care so much if it wasn't him," Ned said in a dull voice.

"But there's nothing against the man, is there?" Mr. Porson asked. "I own I do not like him
myself; but I believe he stands well in the town."

"Only with those who don't know him," Ned replied; "his workpeople say he is the worst master
and the biggest tyrant in the district."

"We must hope it's not so bad as that, Ned; still, I am sorry--very sorry, at what you tell
me; but, my boy, you must not take it to heart. You see you will be going out into the world
before long. Your brother will be following you in a few years. It is surely better that your
mother should marry again and have some one to take care of her."

"Nice care of her he is likely to take!" Ned laughed bitterly. "You might as well put a fox
to take care of a goose."

"You are severe on both parties," Mr. Porson said with a slight smile; "but I can hardly blame
you, my boy, for feeling somewhat bitter at first; but I hope that, for your own sake and your
mother's, you will try and conquer this feeling and will make the best of the circumstances.
It is worse than useless to kick against the pricks. Any show of hostility on your part will
only cause unhappiness, perhaps between your mother' and him--almost certainly between you
and her. In this world, my boy, we have all our trials. Some are very heavy ones. This is yours.
Happily, so far as you are concerned, you need only look forward to its lasting eighteen months
or so. In that time you may hope to get your commission; and as the marriage can hardly take
place for some little time to come, you will have but a year or so to bear it."

"I don't know, sir," Ned said gloomily; "everything seems upset now. I don't seem to know what
I had best do."

"I am sure at present, Ned," Mr. Porson said kindly--for he saw that the boy was just now in
no mood for argument--"the best is to try and think as little of it as possible. Make every
allowance for your mother; as you know, my boy, I would not speak disrespectfully to you of
her on any account; but she is not strong minded. She has always been accustomed to lean upon
some one, and the need of some one to lean on is imperative with her. Had you been a few years
older, and had you been staying at home, it is probable that you might have taken your place
as her support and strength. As it is, it was almost inevitable that something of this sort
would happen.

"But you know, Ned, where to look for strength and support. You have fought one hard battle,
my boy, and have well nigh conquered; now you have another before you. Seek for strength, my
boy, where you will assuredly find it, and remember that this discipline is doubtless sent
you for your good, and that it will be a preparation for you for the struggle in after life.
I don't want you to be a thoughtless, careless young officer, but a man earnest in doing his
duty, and you cannot but see that these two trials must have a great effect in forming your
character. Remember, Ned, that if the effect be not for good, it will certainly be for evil." Was this, as the port that appears to the navigator
After a long journey, was the result of my calculations, the triumph of my ideas, a tributary
of the Rio Securi finally, that I had left near the Trinity Moxos.

In the space of two days continued, but declining, the ridge of these mountains, imprisonment
under a canopy of intertwined branches that form an impenetrable mass veredura the sun and reach
the people of the savages Yuracares, who welcomed me perfectly in their huts, expressed its
determination to cooperate to my projects. I left with them then Before this heat to cool, and
I went into the heart of the world's most beautiful rainforest in search of a tree, which alone
were enough to build a canoe. My savages, who knew one by one all those trees to me straight
away in the thickest of them, whose trunk circumference of twenty feet, maybe he had seen many
centuries. A jump ax blows after their chips, but by evening only, and to pulse of hard work, so
doing falls shattering, tearing down everything that is ahead, and pushing some objects to others,
leading to destruction more than two hundred paces. Redoubled blows of the ax made the forest
ring for seven consecutive days; I went in the meantime the work of the Indians and work alongside
them to encourage by example, until the ruler of the trees found himself transformed that neighborhood
in a very spacious boat. There was smooth after that, through the woods, obstacles who opposed
their march, about a quarter of a league, to launch on the river, what which was held victoriously.
Congratulated me and the success of my wishes, because that complete the mission that I had
my taxes, I was missing something else to do but row towards Moxos.

My promises to three Yuracares determined to follow up Moxos, by making
use of rowers and no provision that some cassava and other roots,
we set off, abandoning forests.

The waters were too low and the river full of jumps: in four days, only could walk three miles
to the confluence of river Icho. Always stuck in the water drag the canoe and nearly barefoot
during the day were devoured by poisonous bites of quejenes, who were displaced, at night, swarms
of mosquitoes bitterest yet. Finally, at the junction where the two rivers together form the
river Securi provided waterway, I was obliged to leave at all inhabited places, and give me almost
miss provisions, to the contingencies of a voyage whose end and I was given obstacles expected,
especially accompanied by inexperienced people, who know not only save balance, tip exposed to at
every step our weak vessel. The abundance reigned since then, thanks to the success of fishing
and hunting, but as he overtook, the forest was becoming more and more deserted, and soon we were
small fish, no salt, all food. Finally, after having seen many significant rivers, all them
strangers, who meet surcábamos, and after three days of grueling voyage, beam continuously
blazing sun, or exposed to rain so abundant in regions hot, appeared again before us the Mamore in all its
grandeur. Then I forgot about the past sufferings. I was in Moxos, white of my labors, and to
the Next morning, after an absence of forty days, I saw the capital of the province where I
scarcely recognized, as was the alteration that the work had caused in my face.

Plotting the level of the latter route gave me way less than the Chapare, and at most, I had discovered
a passage not as risky as the Avocado-Cave. My votes, in this occasion, were also completed,
and I was allowed to offer the government of Bolivia, the delineation of a new avenue for their business
transactions, a present worthy of their benefits, not believing so
exempt from the obligation to preserve my imprescriptible eternal
gratitude.

Finished for my research in the province of Moxos, I went again and returned to climb the Mamore
to its confluence with the river Sara, and then by this until Piray reunion with the river,
which led me, after a troublesome voyage of fifteen days port of the Four-Eyes, situated at
Treit leagues from Santa-Cruz-de-la-Sierra.

On 17 November 1832, at fifty days of hospital stay in this city, I left it penetrated with
gratitude for the many favors that its inhabitants had me filled. Dirigíme back to the mountains,
and climbing until I went to Samaypata Chuquisaca which was about one hundred and fourteen leagues.
I visited the beautiful pass Grande Valley counties, where finish the last branch of the Eastern
Cordillera, and went then to the Rio Grande, which receives all the waters of the provinces of
Cochabamba, Mizque Arque, Chayanta, and part of the Laguna and Yamparaes in the departments
of Cochabamba, Potosi and Chuquisaca. Crossing the mountains and fertile valleys of the provinces
of Laguna and Yamparaes, and passing successively through the Fish, by Tomina, Tacopaya, Tarabuco
and Yamparaes, I finally to the capital of Bolivia, the former seat of the audiencia of Charcas,
today home of a supreme court and a university. The illustrated city of Chuquisaca or La-Plata,
surrounded mountains and cultivated fields, offers entirely the same temperature of Provence in France,
and could produce the same results.

Leaving the city, crossed the Cachimayo and the Pilcomayo, and soon ascending more more about the mountains
came to Potosi, a city of legendary wealth, the product that Special silver mining, has a part to Spain
this gloss has enjoyed over the past centuries. She admired in her large artificial lakes,
their many mills, the mint, and then climbed on his mouth screening
hill mine of which have left so many thousands of dollars, but it
has improved the condition of the poor Indians, which are essential
for these excruciating workings.

At the summit of this hill, I found eighty yards above the level of Mont Blanc.

After having carefully examined around Potosi, I went to Taropaya, Yocalla to, and to Tolapalca
throat, then went down to the deep valley of Ancacato that flows into the Lake of Pansa, and
continuing through the valley of Condor-Apacheta, I found myself a spacious plains that led
me to Oruro, Potosi second, whose mines, rich also in another time, soon ceased to produce
their treasures. The city, well-decayed this, not now but supplies of tin metal, or some little
gold started, shall we say well, to their neighboring mountains.

I was back on the plain Boliviano, the most populous of those Parages. There is where the cultivation
of potatoes, on the one hand, and the raising of llamas and alpacas other hand, have been the
elements of that great society which is dominated by the Incas, civilized Rangers to all peoples.
In a voyage I made to the province of Carangas, saw all parties, through parallel hills, abundant
in copper mines, the remnants of older population: never had I found so many pucaras (ancient
fortresses), and many groups of graves (chulpas) still standing.

I noticed especially the Cruise immediate near Totora, and Jerusalem artichoke-chulpas (the hundred
graves) near Huaillamarca.

Back to Oruro, I continued my exploration of the plain, and headed by Caracollo, Sicasica and
Calamarca to La Paz, where I went to visit Tiaguanaco, as famous for its ruins. There I saw
huge buildings that testify to a civilization perhaps more advanced than the Incas, and certainly
should be of above. These monuments are remarkable, especially by the enormity of the carved
stones that make up his factory.

Amid of a vast plain where a mound rises to more than forty yards, they are surrounded by colossal
pilasters, the remains of some temples square looking towards the east, which have as one hundred
and eighty yards in front of each side, and whose frames are covered with flat reliefs representing
the sun, and the condor His messenger, it is also noticed there are still some fragments of
giant statues. All these monuments, placed very close to the shores of famous Lake Chucuito,
home of Manco Capac, are quite different of which are noted on the islands of Titicaca and
Coati, where the latter were built by the Incas, after which they came to be owned by the
conquest of countries which inhabited the Aymara nation, the first seed of the civilization
of the Andes.

Having traveled to test the contours of the huge lake of Chucuito, which is located at the height
of four thousand yards above the ocean, extends to over thirty-three leagues Geographical long
over fifteen to twenty wide, presenting the appearance of a small sea, I passed for the last
time the western mountains, heading to the port of Arica.

More than three years since I had used in the exploration of the Republic of Bolivia, and I
Apart from this rich and beautiful part of the Americas, taking with me, not only material huge
and all genres to make it known under its various aspects, but also the most heartfelt gratitude
towards his government and to its inhabitants, who had always filled me civilians, and given
me, along with entertainment, fine estimation tests.

After having visited the ports of Islay and Callao (Peru), I finally embarked Valparaiso to go
to France, accompanied by six young Bolivians, named for their government to study metallurgy in
Europe. We set sail in the early days October 1833 to early 1834
and turned to see my homeland after an absence of eight years [1].

I went immediately to Paris, where I hastened to submit to the opinion of the Institute an album
more than five hundred illuminated plates, which I had drawn in those places, copying of the
same nature, large number of manuscripts collections and vast geological,
zoological and botanical.

It appointed a commission composed of Messrs. de Blainville, Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire, Adolphe
Brongniart, Savary and Cordier, and April 21, 1834 showed that, on those materials, a relationship
that will copy here a few passages.

Rapporteurs .-- ZOOLOGY, SS. Blainville's and Geoffroy.

"For the details we have just entered, details that could have double
and triple, being so abundant materials at our disposal, the Academy
will have seen no zoological observations doubt that M. de Orbigny,
and often written in part and accompanied by illuminated figures,
copied from the living and animal collections in support, must fill
many gaps that were in our collection, which will advance significantly
zoology from many points of South America, very little known to the
present, like Patagonia, the provinces of Paraguay and Peru high.

"We recognize that Mr. de Orbigny has been a complete success in the limited spaces of his mission,
in a manner so important to our collections as science itself. "

BOTANY .-- Rapporteur, Mr. Adolphe Brongniart.

"Finally, the third region that he has explored with special care, covers all the Republic of
Bolivia and some parts of Peru, she embraces between grades 13 and
22 south latitude, an extension greater than the whole of France,
and has the most varied heights, from sea level to the west and the
flood plains of the province of Moxos east to the perpetual snow-covered
peaks of the highest part of the Andes.

"Three years have passed in this interesting region, which has traveled everywhere. In through
research of all kinds, to which this laborious traveler had been delivered, yet been able to find
enough time to collect and prepare more than a thousand carefully six hundred species of plants,
many of which will be of great interest to science.

"This immense mountain range that borders the great Pacific Ocean, from Cape Horn to the Isthmus of
Panama, is far from having been studied in all its extension with respect to their natural productions,
Mutis, Ruiz and Pavon, Dombey, Haenke, and more recently Messrs. de Humboldt and Bonpland
have explored its northern part, from Panama to Lima, ie up to 12
degrees south latitude.

Moreover, Ruiz and former Dombey, and modern times the unfortunate Bertero, many English and German
botanists, and our fellow lords Urville, Lesson, Gaudichaud and Gay had carefully studied
Plant wealth of Chile from 30 to 38 degrees latitude south, but all the space between 12 and 30
degrees south latitude, had not been visited by any known botanical. It is here but where are
the heights highest of the Andes, is it where the vast plains surrounding the limit of perpetual
snow, spread over a large surface. It is in this region, almost unknown to the naturalists, that
M. de Orbigny visited a very large part, between 12 and 22 degrees latitude. But he has not
been limited to travel only that range of mountains as remarkable for their crop production,
has also studied vegetation in the lowlands and blistering extending to the borders of Brazil;
and if your research on other branches of natural history have not allowed, as we he says, picking
up all the many plants found in such spot, but one thousand six hundred different species, collected
from a very smart sites they could have higher interest to plant geography, testify to the same
time its active zeal for all science items, and the wisdom that guided him in those that he
had not made a special study.

"Many plants collected, either in the central provinces or on the ridges, are obviously new, and
although it would be necessary to enter into a more scrupulous than ours to fix The exact number
can be counted, without much risk of deception, more than three hundred or four completely unknown
species, which has included in this part of his journey; and all, new or already known, should
be of great interest to plant geography, providing a missing link to unite with the vegetation
of Chile to Peru and Colombia.
 Mr. Mulready spoke genially and kindly, and Ned began to hope that
things would not be so bad after all.

The next morning, to his surprise, his mother appeared at breakfast, a thing which he could
not remember that she had ever done before, and yet the hour was an early one, as her husband
wanted to be off to the mill. During the meal Mr. Mulready spoke sharply two or three times,
and it seemed to Ned that his mother was nervously anxious to please him.

"Things are not going on so well after all," he said to himself as he walked with his brother
to school. "Mother has changed already; I can see that she isn't a bit like herself. There
she was fussing over whether he had enough sugar with his tea, and whether the kidneys were
done enough for him; then her coming down to breakfast was wonderful. I expect she has found
already that somebody else's will besides her own has got to be consulted; it's pretty soon
for her to have begun to learn the lesson."

It was very soon manifest that Mr. Mulready was master in his own house. He still looked pleasant
and smiled, for his smile was a habitual one; but there was a sharpness in the ring of his
voice, an impatience if everything was not exactly as he wished. He roughly silenced Charlie
and Lucy if they spoke when he was reading his paper at breakfast, and he spoke snappishly
to his wife when she asked him a question on such occasions. Ned felt his face burn, as with
his eyes on his plate he continued his meal. To him Mr. Mulready seldom spoke unless it was
absolutely necessary.

Ned often caught himself wondering over the change which had taken place in his mother. All
the ways and habits of an invalid had disappeared. She not only gave directions for the management
of the house, but looked after everything herself, and was forever going upstairs and down,
seeing that everything was properly done. However sharply Mr. Mulready spoke she never replied
in the same tone. A little flush of color would come into her cheek, but she would pass it
off lightly, and at all times she appeared nervously anxious to please him. Ned wondered much
over the change.

"He is a tyrant," he said, "and she has learned it already; but I do think she loves him. Fancy
my mother coming to be the slave of a man like this! I suppose," he laughed bitterly, "it's
the story of 'a woman, a dog, and a walnut tree, the more you thrash them the better they will
be.' My father spent his whole life in making hers easy, and in sparing her from every care
and trouble, and I don't believe she cared half as much for him as she does for this man who
is her master."

For some months Mr. Mulready was very busy at his mill. A steam engine was being erected, new
machinery brought in, and he was away the greater part of his time superintending it.

One day at breakfast, a short time before all was in readiness for a start with the new plant,
Mr. Mulready opened a letter directed in a sprawling and ill written hand which lay at the
top of the pile by his plate. Ned happened to notice his face, and saw the color fade out from
it as he glanced at the contents. The mouth remained as usual, set in a smile, but the rest
of the face expressed agitation and fear. The hand which held the letter shook. Mrs. Mulready,
whose eyes seldom left her husband's face when he was in the room, also noticed the change.

"Is anything the matter, William?"

"Oh! nothing," he said with an unnatural laugh, "only a little attempt to frighten me."

"An attempt which has succeeded," Ned said to himself, "whatever it is."

Mr. Mulready passed the letter over to his wife. It was a rough piece of paper; at the top
was scrawled the outline of a coffin underneath which was written:

"MR. MULREADY: Sir, this is to give you warning that if you uses the new machinery you are
a dead man. You have been a marked man for a long time for your tyrannical ways, but as long
as you didn't get the new machinery we let you live; but we has come to the end of it now;
the day as you turns on steam we burns your mill to the ground and shoots you, so now you knows
it."

At the bottom of this was signed the words "Captain Lud."

"Oh! William," Mrs. Mulready cried, "you will never do it! You will never risk your life at
the hands of these terrible people!"

All the thin veneer of politeness was cracked by this blow, and Mr. Mulready said sullenly:

"Nice thing indeed; after I have married to get this money, and then not to be able to use it!"

His wife gave a little cry.

"It's a shame to say so," Charlie burst out sturdily.

Mr. Mulready's passion found a vent. He leaped up and seized the boy by the collar and boxed
his ears with all his force.

In an instant the fury which had been smoldering in Ned's breast for months found a vent. He
leaped to his feet and struck Mr. Mulready a blow between the eyes which sent him staggering
back against the wall; then he caught up the poker. The manufacturer with a snarl like that
of an angry wild beast was about to rush at him, but Ned's attitude as he stood, poker in hand,
checked him.

"Stand back," Ned said threateningly, "or I will strike you. You coward and bully; for months
I have put up with your tyrannizing over Charlie and Lucy, but touch either of them again if
you dare. You think that you are stronger than I am--so you are ever so much; but you lay a
finger on them or on me, and I warn you, if I wait a month for an opportunity I will pay you
for it, if you kill me afterward."

Mrs. Mulready's screams had by this time brought the servants into the room, and they stood
astonished at the spectacle.

Lucy crying bitterly had run to Ned and thrown her arms round him, begging him to be quiet.
Charlie, hardly recovered from the heavy blows he had received, was crying too. Mr. Mulready
as pale as death was glaring at Ned, while his wife had thrown herself between them. Mr. Mulready
was the first to recover himself.

"This is a nice spectacle," he said to the servants. "You see that boy has attacked me with
the poker and might have murdered me. However, you can go now, and mind, no chattering about
what you have seen.

"And now," he continued to Ned as the door closed behind the servants, "out of this house you
go this day."

"You don't suppose I want to stay in your house," Ned said passionately. "You don't suppose
that it's any pleasure to me to stop here, seeing you play the tyrant over my mother."

"Oh, Ned, Ned," Mrs. Mulready broke in, "how can you talk so!"

"It is true, mother, he is a tyrant to you as well as to every one else; but I don't mean to
go, I mean to stop here to protect you and the children. He daren't turn me out; if he did,
I would go and work in one of the mills, and what would the people of Marsden say then? What
would they think of this popular, pleasant gentleman then, who has told his wife before her
children that he married her for her money? They shall all know it, never fear, if I leave
this house. I would have gone to Mr. Simmonds and asked him to apply for a commission for me
before now, for other fellows get it as young as I am; but I have made up my mind that it's
my duty not to do so.

"I know he has been looking forward to my being out of the way, and his being able to do just
what he likes with the others, but I ain't going to gratify him. It's plain to me that my duty
at present is to take care of you all, and though God knows how I set my mind upon going into
the army and being a soldier like my father, I will give it up if it means leaving Charlie
here under him."

"And do you suppose, sir," Mr. Mulready asked with intense bitterness, "that I am going to
keep you here doing nothing all your life, while you are pleased to watch me?"

"No, I don't," Ned replied. "I shall get a clerkship or something in one of the mills, and
I shall have Charlie to live with me until he is old enough to leave school, and then I will
go away with him to America or somewhere. As to mother, I can do nothing for her. I think my
being here makes it worse for her, for I believe you tyrannize over her all the more because
you think it hurts me. I know you hated me from the first just as I hated you. As for Lucy,
mother must do the best she can for her. Even you daren't hit a girl."

"Oh, Ned, how can you go on so?" Mrs. Mulready wailed. "You are a wicked boy to talk so."

"All right, mother," Ned replied recklessly; "if I am, I suppose I am. I know in your eyes
he can do no wrong. And I believe if he beat you, you would think that you deserved it."

So he flung himself down in his chair and continued his breakfast.

Mr. Mulready drank off his tea without sitting down, and then left the room without another
word; in fact, as yet he did not know what to say.

Almost speechless with passion as he was, he restrained himself from carrying out his threat
and turning Ned at once from the house. Above all things he prized his position and popularity,
and he felt that, as Ned had said, he would indeed incur a heavy odium by turning his wife's
son from his doors. Captain Sankey's death had thrown almost a halo over his children. Mr.
Mulready knew that he was already intensely unpopular among the operative class, but he despised
this so long as he stood well with the rest of the townsmen; but he dared not risk Ned's going
to work as an ordinary hand in one of the factories; public opinion is always against stepfathers,
and assuredly this would be no exception. Hating him as he did, he dared not get rid of this
insolent boy, who had struck and defied him. He cursed himself now with his rashness in letting
his temper get the best of him and telling his wife openly that he had married her for her
money; for this in Ned's hands would be a serious weapon against him.

That his wife's feelings were hurt he cared not a jot, but it would be an awkward thing to
have it repeated in the town. Then there was this threatening letter; what was he to do about
that? Other men had had similar warnings. Some had defied Captain Lud, and fortified their
mills and held them. Many had had their property burned to the ground; some had been murdered.
It wouldn't be a pleasant thing to drive about in the country knowing that at any moment he
might be shot dead. His mill was some little distance out of the town; the road was dark and
lonely. He dared not risk it.

Mr. Mulready was, like all tyrants, a coward at heart, and his face grew white again as he
thought of the letter in his pocket. In the meantime Mrs. Mulready was alternately sobbing
and upbraiding Ned as he quietly finished his breakfast. The boy did not answer, but continued
his meal in dogged silence, and when it was over collected his books and without a word went
off to school.

Weeks went on, and no outward change took place. Ned continued to live at home. Mr. Mulready
never addressed him, and beyond helping him to food entirely ignored his presence. At mealtimes
when he opened his lips it was either to snap at Charlie or Lucy, or to snarl at his wife,
whose patience astonished Ned, and who never answered except by a smile or murmured excuse.
The lad was almost as far separated from her now as from his stepfather. She treated him as
if he only were to blame for the quarrel which had arisen. They had never understood each other,
and while she was never weary of making excuses for her husband, she could make none for her
son. In the knowledge that the former had much to vex him she made excuses for him even in
his worst moods. His new machinery was standing idle, his business was getting worse and worse,
he was greatly pressed and worried, and it was monstrous, she told herself, that at such a
time he should be troubled with Ned's defiant behavior.

A short time before the school Christmas holidays Ned knocked at the door of Mr. Porson's study.
Since the conversation which they had had when first Ned heard of his mother's engagement Mr.
Porson had seen in the lad's altered manner, his gloomy looks, and a hardness of expression
which became more and more marked every week, that things were going on badly. Ned no longer
evinced the same interest in his work, and frequently neglected it altogether; the master,
however, had kept silence, preferring to wait until Ned should himself broach the subject.

"Well, Sankey, what is it?" he asked kindly as the boy entered.

"I don't think it's any use my going on any longer, Mr. Porson."

"Well, Sankey, you have not been doing yourself much good this half, certainly. I have not
said much to you about it, for it is entirely your own business: you know more than nineteen
out of twenty of the young fellows who get commissions, so that if you choose to give up work
it is your own affair."

"I have made up my mind not to go into the army," Ned said quietly.

Mr. Porson was silent a minute.

"I hope, my dear lad," he said, "you will do nothing hastily about this. Here is a profession
open to you which is your own choice and that of your father, and it should need some very
strong and good reason for you to abandon it. Come let us talk the matter over together, my
boy, not as a master and his pupil, but as two friends.

"You know, my boy, how thoroughly I have your interest at heart. If you had other friends whom
you could consult I would rather have given you no advice, for there is no more serious matter
than to say anything which might influence the career of a young fellow just starting in life.
Terrible harm often results from well intentioned advice or opinions carelessly expressed to
young men by their elders; it is a matter which few men are sufficiently careful about; but
as I know that you have no friends to consult, Ned, and as I regard you with more than interest,
I may say with affection, I think it would be well for you to tell me all that there is in
your mind before you take a step which may wreck your whole life.

"I have been waiting for some months in hopes that you would open your mind to me, for I have
seen that you were unhappy; but it was not for me to force your confidence."

"I don't know that there's much to tell," Ned said wearily. "Everything has happened just as
it was certain it would do. Mulready is a brute; he ill treats my mother, he ill treats Charlie
and Lucy, and he would ill treat me if he dared."

"All this is bad, Ned," Mr. Porson said gravely; "but of course much depends upon the amount
of his ill treatment. I assume that he does not actively ill treat your mother."

"No," Ned said with an angry look in his face; "and he'd better not."

"Yes, Ned, he had better not, no doubt," Mr. Porson said soothingly; "but what I want to know,
what it is essential I should know if I am to give you any advice worth having, is what you
mean by ill treatment--is he rough and violent in his way with her? does he threaten her with
violence? is he coarse and brutal?"

"No," Ned said somewhat reluctantly; "he is not that, sir; he is always snapping and snarling
and finding fault." He had never known or owned
more proprietary know that Don Pedro Miranda. The institutions of law force, the old law, universities,
army, navy, constitution politics and even religion, had no reason to be in their eyes, but
as elements that a direct or indirect entrenched those rights. The amazing machine of the
Universe was formed to support his undisputed title to the freehold of Praducos, village situated
half a mile from the village, and had direct on the Meanas, with a canon hundred and fifteen ducats
yearly. This awareness of their right engendered very clear, however, excess of clarity, some conflicts.
A settler came and said: - Lord, Joaquín el martinetero, has cut the cane yesterday walnut hanging
over their garden .-- But walnut was mine! - Don Pedro exclaimed suddenly flushed with anger
and surprise .-- Yes, sir ... but hanging over their garden as ...--¿ How this scoundrel dared
to touch on one thing that is mine, mine? - immediately filed an injunction, and naturally,
he lost. Of these injunctions had lost a few dozen in your life, without ever deterrant.

Don Roque de la Riva, constitutional mayor Sarrió, who have been honored
to compare when I first saw him in the theater, a courtier of Louis
XV, or a coachman big house, not remarkable for the purity of diction,
before it was so run down and confused, that the caller he could scarcely
understand.

We do not know if it was in the mouth or throat or in the region of the nasal passages, where Mr.
de la Riva was kindly crushing and tormenting the words, the truth is coming out almost always
transformed into sounds dark, hollow, chaotic, completely unintelligible. Particularly after
eating it was impossible to talk to him. And this, for no other reason, they said, but because
they don Roque used to instruct pilots a wine friends Rivero, so exquisite, that nobody would
to drink, even at the risk of staying silent. The paramount chief of the village civil leaving all
evenings home alone, in appearance, actually pleasantly accompanied. Its huge face shaved wanted
to take the blood through the pores, preferably focusing on the huge back Bourbon your nose.
The eyes, with bouquets of blood also, half veiled by not being able to suffer the great heaviness
of the eyelids slowly were spaced across the width of the street expressing an enviable level
of fitness. Serious step, slow, hesitant, accused just as a perfect harmony between their
mental and physical faculties. He lacked Don Roque to achieve happiness rather than tripping over a
sheriff, or a street sweeper, or serene, or chipping, with any employee, in short, of the municipality.
From afar I descry, and suddenly lifted her eyelids, and nostrils of the smell was opened dam.
If this, sniffing the tiger, he spent the other side, or trying to hide Roque called him a voice
of thunder.

- John, Juaan, Juaaaan!

The victim's head went down.

- Have you taken the job to Don Lorenzo?

- Yes, sir.

- Have you
told the clerk to leave the file section of the cemetery?

- Yes,
sir.

- Have you taken the cards to the headman of San Martín?

-
Yes, sir.

- Have you been to tell Manuel to remove the debris that
is in front of your house?

In short, I was wondering, until the poor sheriff answered negatively.

Then, the voice of choristers of the mayor was heard across the street,
and even in the confines of the town.

His eyes were injected, and his face came to be apoplectic purple.

Impossible understand what he said, if they were not splashing the
garlic with the speech, and even these the cupped so that only the
jack was seen clearly.

The rebuke never lasted less than fifteen or twenty minutes, the
time required to leave the vast amount of garlic that had been accumulated
in the body from the night before.

Just as there are people morning put their fingers in the mouth to cause bile Roque inevitably
needed this relief to be comfortable. He had not ever heard another interjection, but instead of
this possessed such abundance that was not enough to put one on each floor, sometimes put two or three.

Shopkeepers
came out to the door to listen, but smiling, not surprisingly, as usual of old to this show.

-
Don Roque today pulled Swifts firm - told each other aloud.

- Look if you do John.

Indeed, the sheriff at every turn in the round that gave the mayor, had the thumb the mouth and
made the sign of steep.

Don Roque would rather find a sweeper or chipping in the exercise
of their functions.

Cautiously approached him from behind, and he knelt his dedazo in
the neck.

--¡... Garlic! rascal so, what is so sweeping that?

Do you think ... garlic! I'll pay for let me half the crap between the stones? ... Garlic! Is
this gratitude? ... Garlic! Is it this shame?

... Garlic!

Sometimes himself in the speech enthusiastically grasped the broom and began to give the sweeper
a lesson in his craft. Shopkeepers, the few pedestrians crossing the street and some lady who
was leaning on the balcony with the noise, burst out laughing merrily.

The sweeper itself, despite their plight, could not repress a smile watching this madman with giving
the coat rolled up angry and confused wipe the floor.

- This sweeping! ... ... Garlic! (Broom terrible blow.) This sweeps! ... ... Garlic! (Another
hit.) This sweeps! ... ... Garlic! (Another hit.) This sweeps! ...
... Garlic!

Until exhausted, sweaty and ready to fall to earth with a stroke, gave him a broom and picked up
the baton with tassels.

Thus vented his noble bosom of the copy of garlic that was upon him,
undertook again their way and arrived at a most happy disposition
Saloncillo body and spirit.

Gabino Maza was a man of about forty-five-year-old naval officer, retired early because his maverick
nature could not bear to military discipline. Face olive-brown, small eyes and dark circles
live with constant hawking his temper too bilious. High, dry, muscular, his beard and hair that
was black in color in blue, the always broken and violent gestures, voice indefinable, sometimes
serious, other, when angry, which was almost always began to talk, shrill and sharp as a falsetto so
shrill that broke the ears. Enjoyed a small income and a very small removal, with which he
could live and feed his family with respect Sarrió a wealthy gentleman. In the capital of the
province and it would be impossible. Eternal struggles, putting in each dispute, it was trivial, a
lot of passion and violence really amazing, always willing, be contrary to everything they
said although it was clearer the noonday gloom of a fierce and unfriendly to judge men, for
that point was not made the case that never believed pure motives of human action by noble and
honored to appear, spiteful and vindictive to madness. This man, however, did not attract the hatred
of the neighborhood against another, as might be supposed. In villages and towns, by the intimate,
long and steady people, penetrates into the soul of each than in large populations. Superficial
treatment does, in them, many men sympathetic cold, selfish and even evil. Courteous manners, gentle
words, insinuating smile, immediately provide opinion 'nice and decent person. " In the province worthless
this. On the contrary, is wary of excessive friendliness, and above all, smile sweetish, is
looking to every man the folds and recesses of the soul with the same care and attention to
a taxidermist is feeling and putting the scalpel view all fibers of the body machine. Which
are generally hated by some men that stranger seduce him, while others, hard, violent, aggressive,
often fall into grace. The dissimulation, which is the talent of rude and vulgar natures, not
ever forgive province, perhaps to be the predominant service in all social relations. The geniuses
alive, exalted temperament, not scary like the "bulls clear." There is almost always in them a spirit
of justice, which, though exaggerated and corrupted by passion, not just them unfriendly. Moreover,
as the exaltation of violence and constant cause of suffering, physical and moral discomfort,
rightly judged that men of such temperament are in themselves the penalty of their excesses.

Gabino
Maza was not hated and loved too. Those with grievances him, he murmured and prevented their
meeting calling him "jealous" and "bad language." Those who do not laugh at his exaggerations
and he led themselves with pleasure, without professing great affection
either.

Another character was gathered there Feliciano Gómez.

Grocery merchant genres retail owner at the same time three or four and some quechemarines that pataches
coasting trade made by the Cantabrian coast, venturing once in a while the more transport to
get to Seville. Of medium height, bare head of hair in pyramid-shaped pins that reached her
nose, almost always hoarse voice. It was fun man, kind, optimistic. He was unmarried and living
with three sisters over age, who had made real ladies workforce and economy. The payment as they
gave public voice, was to have him dominated and subject as a child, bitterly rebuke lighter
faults, and mortify and boring by all means imaginable. However, he never was heard a complaint
from them.

The Belgian engineer, M. Delaunay, had come to Sarrió years ago, in
order to benefit mining the preserve of a powerful English company.

The operation did not work. The company withdrew his commission and salary. But Delaunay, who had
some money and entrepreneurial genius, went on for six or eight industrial companies. First set
up a paper factory then another tip from Paris, and later tried to form an oyster farm, then factory
cheese and ice. Finally wanted to take a large marsh that was near Sarrió. All these companies had
failed, without anyone knowing why. Delaunay was smart, illustrated, time-consuming. Each industry
knew it was going to exercise as the most competent teacher; charge devices to England, riding
and running was happily getting very acceptable products. The attributed its fall to the lack of
roads. The last of big corporations, aborted before birth, it more than any other discredited. In
a of his trips around the village, had been near a small river certain uncultivated land with
little effort could be reduced to cultivation. Took hold in mind; up the plane. A few months later,
when he was forced to close the ice maker and fire workers, the Marsh remembered and spoke of
them to Don Rosendo Belinchón Don Feliciano Gómez and two more Indians to assist him in his
great undertaking. Replicated them that was necessary to see them, and concertóse the tour. One
morning mounted in two horses secretly initiated the march to the estuary of Orlean, distant
four leagues Sarrió. When you get near the horses she left and went on foot of a hill, from
which oteaban marshes. What would be the shame and confusion of seeing the land Delaunay trying
to steal the sea, covered with corn, green and flowering were a blessing God! In fact, more than
six years were under cultivation. His mistake was born seeing them in December when they were
resting. They turned to the town, and incident occurred in her laughter that must be assumed.

Laid
out ruined. Was obliged to live miserably. But far from going out in his mind the fury of
the business burned in poverty with more momentum. So not leave a single Sarrió capitalist
who does so in order to embark on one. Sometimes it was a tram to the capital, others a port
of refuge or a wooden piers, other great restaurant. Some Indians, just by the way, he seduced,
paid some thousands of dollars his innocence.

The fact is that Delaunay was a man of talent, scholar, learning very well with all the advances
of science and industry. Despise impossible without making an injustice.

The Assistant Port Marina, Alvaro Pena, young man of thirty, dark, big eyes black mustache Victor
Manuel, was characterized by a deep hatred, implacable, the state church and all who represent
him, even if his own brother. Without being amateur in any way to science or literature, had a
fairly large library, composed entirely of books against religion and its ministers. He was signed
to three or four newspapers known for their anti-clerical views,
and said he had been had been seized a few years to accumulate data
for a book meant to be published under the title of religion within
the reach of all fortunes, which many neighbors knew and some fragments.

He was cheerful, courageous, fond of stories and jokes, which always played paramount role a priest
or nun. Mispronounces Rs.

Don Jaime Marin, owner of four bushels of bread, the contribution amounted about six thousand pesetas,
would be a large skull, a profligate, a monster of corruption if not have to wife to Dona Brigida.
This distinguished lady was achieved with a healthy energy that your husband does not ruin
the family and cast them all for doors. Before disrupt their finances secured the court deprived
him of property management and was assigned to it. It is not easy how firmly grasped Dona Brigida
the reins of the house. No Roman patrician was never a more perfect idea of ​​sui juris, of
the sacred rights "the city" had placed in his hands.

Since it came to pass, Don Jaime, despite his fifty-odd years, became in his hands a real thing
as preventing Instituta. In his juris alieni condition was suffering the direct action and continuing
her lord and master, and secured in an all-embracing to their will. Farewell dinner sumptuous
seafood and wine from Rueda in the cafe of the Marina! Goodbye hare hunting Marcelino Fermo
the butcher and the carver! Triplet seductive nights Goodbye! Afternoon peace and happiness in the
winery Sebastian de la Puente, goodbye! The lady inflexible deposited in their hands every Sunday
three pesetas, no more no less. It was all available to flow during the week for their services,
except smoking, which it subsidized, buying cigarettes itself. When I needed a hat, she bought
it, when a suit or a pair of boots be warned the tailor or shoemaker to come to take action. He
even kept him from going the barbershop, lest they run the two real. The barber came to shave
the Saturdays. By the way, with little or no consideration, the bearded rapador got some sometimes
at nine o'clock, when Don James was sleeping.

- What do I do? - Asked Dona Brigida.

- Shave you - answered the lady very severe.

The barber, following the slogan, was approaching, he smeared his face with soap and robbed him
the beard nicely without Don Jaime awoke more than half. He missed another dream and when you
wake up really used to say to the servant who served the chocolate:

- Today is Saturday, they call, the barber.

- Tonto, borricote, unable
sacraments! - Answered her sweet consort from the cabinet .-- No see
you shave yet?

- It's true! - Said the good man feeling his face.

At first I used to ask friends or acquaintances of coffee some money to play ombre, and drinking
on credit in coffee but soon or friends want to give anything, nor
establishment owner trusted him and the value of two rooms.

Stopped short of Dona Brigida to throw him down the stairs one day
that has brought him a hundred and twenty reais.

Don Jaime was thus reduced to spend hours sitting watching play and
giving players do not appreciated advice.

Used to pay the greedy cup of rum. Once in a time playing checkers with Mr. Lorenzo, as he flatly
refused to follow the game without interest, was that Marin arbitrate should not be any precious
metal. Discoursed expose one of the two cigars that his wife was in the morning. When he lost, that
afternoon was not smoking. Sometimes looking for a rematch, losing
two and three would one by one, giving his opponent in the following
days.

Then he spent, as their Friends would say, "the grammar", that is, to ask here and there a cigarette
to calm the unbearable itching to suck. Poor Marin!

Dona Brigida what could not ever do was lie on a regular time. Years of staying up all night
until four or five in the morning, had formed a habit impossible overcome. As holding him was
not going home anyway to bed until daybreak, and spent the evening poking around the rooms,
and as the vice late nights alone the cheapest is known, the witty lady let him retire at
the time wanted. Coffee remained in the Navy with the last customers. After they retired, still remained
while the boys placed the dishes in place and the owner pointed out
the latest games.

When he threw the establishment materially was to company to the serene de la Rúa Nueva, very
friend. Chatting with the hours he killed still lacking for the dawn.

Don Lorenzo, Don Agapito, Don Pancho, Don Aquilino, Mr. Germain and Don Justo were Indians, that
is, people whose parents had sent to America for children to earn a living and had back between
fifty and sixty years with a capital ranging from 30-100000 hard. There were over fifty of them
in Sarrio. The hard work and subjection in which they had lived for many years, I did have an idea
of ​​happiness is very different from ours. To us the joy is to enjoy a new pleasure every
day, shaking, traveling, enjoying the body and spirit of the amazing variety of things that nature
offers us.

For them was estimated solely on not working, spending day after day of hard redeemed law
imposed by God to Adam after sin. And the truth is that fattened fiercely this singular enjoyment.
Most of them had their capital in the Funds, whose income when it comes to not cause discomfort.
Rising up early in the habit of early rising, and walked all morning through the streets or at
the dock in gangs of six or eight player entry and exit, loading and unloading of ships. After
dinner they went to the mezzanine Navy coffee or Friendship, and spent three or four hours playing
or watching play billiards.

"Come on, ball of bone, go, go to hut! - Leave, leave, Don Pancho, which is wound .-- Sal girl,
leave the manigüita .-- Ah, ah, how nice ute hits, Don Lorenso! - Do not get mad, don Pancho!
"

The game was always peppered with such phrases that smelled like banana and coconut. When the days
were long, there veíaseles afternoon by walking near the village also gang or sitting on the grass
at the edge of a fountain.

It was time for tropical memories.

"Remember ute, Don Agapito remembers mulatta aqueya ute dog that came
to give plasma to the store? - And how well he sang the guarachas,
the sinvergüensa! - a design that ute vese the rubbed, Don Agapito,
the hard rubbed .-- And why not, Don Pancho, if what I would improve
the dance of people with black slipped my Justo compare? - Wow, man,
do not say So I Enoha!

The dance that was going to ute. Vese Poquita trabao I saw him with eya dancing down the little
girl, little girl down! "

There was no count on them to subsidize the orchestra, or theater, or other public recreation. Young
indigenous people if they wanted to have fun need to appeal to the pocket of his parents. And
knew it was useless to seek the help of American gold. This angered them. On the back, and even
from the front, called them rusty, villagers, donkeys laden with money. But the Indians have
tough skin and despised such outbursts. The hatred they had declared (Who was not?) Was Gabino
Maza .--«¿ What are they pulled all those fifty vague on the street,
opening his mouth and stretching like dogs?

If earmarked even your money to some useful industry to the people! "

When Don Melchor de las Cuevas and his nephew entered the Saloncillo, who alone remained standing
in the middle of the circle was the same Gabino gesturing Maza. I could not stay two minutes
sitting. The continued glorification of his body, the vehemence with which he tried to persuade
his audience, forcing him to take up the seat immediately, jumping into the middle of the room
and screaming and slapping until he concluded his breath and strength. There was talk of the
company the theater had announced his departure to have experienced
losses in the first installment thirty functions.

Maza was to convince them that there had been no such losses, it was all a hoax.

- Not true, not true! Anyone who says they have lost a penny lying! ... (Down voice and shaking hands
with Gonzalo .)--¿ How are you, Gonzalo? I know you've arrived yesterday. Come Good: I'm glad
... I repeat that lie! Do not dare to say it to me?

- Six thousand pieces have been lost in the thirty functions, according to data presented me Baritone
- Don Mateo said.

Maza grinds his teeth. The outrage is not allowed to speak. Finally breaks.

- And you ignore that drunk, Mr. Mateo? ... Go, go (with affected contempt), to force to deal
with comedians you've forgotten the office, as the blacksmith of
yore.

- Hey you, smarty, I have not said what he believed.

 He'd
best not come up this way arter dark."

"He's not likely to do that," Ned said. "I am sure he is a coward or he would have put the
mill to work weeks ago."

Secure in the protection of the troops, and proud of the new machinery which was at work in
his mill, Mr. Mulready was now himself again. His smile had returned. He carried himself jauntily,
and talked lightly and contemptuously of the threats of King Lud. Ned disliked him more in
this mood than in the state of depression and irritation which had preceded it. The tones of
hatred and contempt in which he spoke of the starving workmen jarred upon him greatly, and
it needed all his determination and self command to keep him from expressing his feelings.
Mr. Mulready was quick in perceiving, from the expression of Ned's face, the annoyance which
his remarks caused him, and reverted to the subject all the more frequently. With this exception
the home life was more pleasant than it had been before.

Mr. Mulready, in his satisfaction at the prospect of a new prosperity, was far more tolerant
with his wife, and her spirits naturally rose with his. She had fully shared his fears as to
the threats by the Luddites, and now agreed cordially with his diatribes against the workpeople,
adopting all his opinions as her own.

Ned's acquaintance with Bill Swinton had long been a grievance to her, and her constant complainings
as to his love for low company had been one of the afflictions to which Ned had long been accustomed.
Now, having her husband by her side, it was a subject to which she frequently reverted.

"Why can't you leave me alone, mother?" Ned burst out one day when Mr. Mulready had left the
room. "Can't you leave me in quiet as to my friends, when in two or three months I shall be
going away? Bill Swinton is going to enlist in the same regiment in which I am, so as to follow
me all over the world.

"Would any of the fine friends you would like me to make do that? I like all the fellows at
school well enough, but there is not one of them would do a fiftieth part as much for me as
Bill would. Even you, mother, with all your prejudices; must allow that it will be a good thing
for me to have some one with me who will really care for me, who will nurse me if I am sick
or wounded, who would lay down his life for mine if necessary. I tell you there isn't a finer
fellow than Bill living. Of course he's rough, and he's had no education, I know that; but
it's not his fault. But a truer or warmer hearted fellow never lived. He is a grand fellow.
I wish I was only half as true and as honest and manly as he is. I am proud to have Bill as
a friend. It won't be long before I have gone, mother. I have been fighting hard with myself
so that there shall be peace and quietness in the house for the little time I have got to be
here, and you make it harder for me."

"It's ridiculous your talking so," Mrs. Mulready said peevishly, "and about a common young
fellow like this. I don't pretend to understand you, Ned. I never have and never shall do.
But I am sure the house will be much more comfortable when you have gone. Whatever trouble
there is with my husband is entirely your making. I only wonder that he puts up with your ways
as he does. If his temper was not as good as yours is bad he would not be able to do so."

"All right, mother," Ned said. "He is an angel, he is, we all know, and I am the other thing.
Well, if you are contented, that's the great thing, isn't it? I only hope you will always be
so; but there," he said, calming himself with a great effort as his father's last words again
came into his mind, "don't let's quarrel, mother. I am sorry for what I have said. It's quite
right that you should stick up for your husband, and I do hope that when I go you will, as
you say, be more comfortable and happy. Perhaps you will. I am sure I hope so. Well, I know
I am not nice with him. I can't help it. It's my beastly temper, I suppose. That's an old story.
Come, mother, I have only a short time to be at home now. Let us both try and make it as pleasant
as we can, so that when I am thousands of miles away, perhaps in India, we may have it to look
back upon. You try and leave my friends alone and I will try and be as pleasant as I can with
your husband."

Mrs. Mulready was crying now.

"You know, Ned, I would love you if you would let me, only you are so set against my husband.
I am sure he always means kindly. Look how he takes to little Lucy, who is getting quite fond
of him."

"Yes, I am very glad to think that he is, mother," Ned said earnestly. "You see Lucy is much
younger, and naturally remembers comparatively little about her father, and has been able to
take to Mr. Mulready without our prejudices. I am very glad to see that he really does like
her--in fact I do think he is getting quite fond of her. I shall go away feeling quite easy
about her. I wish I could say as much about Charlie. He is not strong, like other boys, and
feels unkindness very sharply. I can see him shrink and shiver when your husband speaks to
him, and am afraid he will have a very bad time of it when I am gone."

"I am sure, Ned, he will get on very well," Mrs. Mulready said. "I have no doubt that when
he gets rid of the example you set him--I don't want to begin to quarrel again--but of the
example you set him of dislike and disrespect to Mr. Mulready, that he will soon be quite different.
He will naturally turn to me again instead of looking to you for all his opinions, and things
will go on smoothly and well."

"I am sure I hope so, mother. Perhaps I have done wrong in helping to set Charlie against Mulready.
Perhaps when I have gone, too, things will be easier for him. If I could only think so I should
go away with a lighter heart. Well, anyhow, mother, I am glad we have had this talk. It is
not often we get a quiet talk together now."

"I am sure it is not my fault," Mrs. Mulready said in a slightly injured tone.

"Perhaps not, mother," Ned said kindly. "With the best intentions, I know I am always doing
things wrong. It's my way, I suppose. Anyhow, mother, I really have meant well, and I hope
you will think of me kindly after I have gone."

"You may be sure I shall do that, Ned," his mother said, weeping again. "I have no doubt the
fault has been partly mine too, but you see women don't understand boys, and can't make allowances
for them."

And so Ned kissed his mother for the first time since the day when she had returned home from
her wedding tour, and mother and son parted on better terms than they had done for very many
months, and Ned went with a lightened heart to prepare his lessons for the next day.

CHAPTER XII: MURDERED!

In spite of Ned's resolutions that he would do nothing to mar the tranquillity of the last
few weeks of his being at home, he had difficulty in restraining his temper the following day
at tea. Never had he seen his stepfather in so bad a humor. Had he known that things had gone
wrong at the mill that day, that the new machine had broken one of its working parts and had
brought everything to a standstill till it could be repaired, he would have been able to make
allowances for Mr. Mulready's ill humor.

Not knowing this he grew pale with the efforts which he made to restrain himself as his stepfather
snarled at his wife, snapped at Lucy and Charlie, and grumbled and growled at everything throughout
the meal. Everything that was said was wrong, and at last, having silenced his wife and her
children, the meal was completed in gloomy silence.

The two boys went into the little room off the hall which they used of an evening to prepare
their lessons for next day. Charlie, who came in last, did not abut the door behind him.

"That is a nice man, our stepfather," Ned said in a cold fury. "His ways get more and more
pleasant every day; such an amiable, popular man, so smiling and pleasant!"

"Oh! it's no use saying anything," Charlie said in an imploring voice, "it only makes things
worse."

"Worse!" Ned exclaimed indignantly; "how could they be worse? Well may they call him Foxey,
for foxey he is, a double faced snarling brute."

As the last word issued from Ned's lips he reeled under a tremendous box on the ear from behind.
Mr. Mulready was passing through the hall--for his gig was waiting at the door to take him
back to the mill, where some fitters would be at work till late, repairing the damages to the
machine--when he had caught Ned's words, which were spoken at the top of his voice.

The smoldering anger of months burst at once into a flame heightened by the ill humor which
the day's events had caused, and he burst into the room and almost felled Ned to the ground
with his swinging blow. Recovering himself, Ned flew at him, but the boy was no match for the
man, and Mr. Mulready's passion was as fierce as his own; seizing his throat with his left
hand and forcing him back into a corner of the room, his stepfather struck him again and again
with all his force with his right.

Charlie had run at once from the room to fetch his mother, and it was scarcely a minute after
the commencement of the outbreak that she rushed into the room, and with a scream threw her
arms round her husband.

"The young scoundrel!" Mr. Mulready exclaimed, panting, as he released his hold of Ned; "he
has been wanting a lesson for a long time, and I have given him one at last. He called me Foxey,
the young villain, and said I was a double faced snarling brute; let him say so again and I
will knock his head off."

But Ned just at present was not in a condition to repeat his words; breathless and half stunned
he leaned in the corner, his breath came in gasps, his face was as pale as death, his cheek
was cut, there were red marks on the forehead which would speedily become black, and the blood
was flowing from a cut on his lip, his eyes had a dazed and half stupid look.

"Oh! William!" Mrs. Mulready said as she looked at her son, "how could you hurt him so!"

"Hurt him, the young reptile!" Mr. Mulready said savagely. "I meant to hurt him. I will hurt
him more next time."

Mrs. Mulready paid no attention to his words, but went up to Ned.

"Ned, my boy," she said tenderly, "what is it? Don't look like that, Ned; speak to me."

His mother's voice seemed to rouse Ned into consciousness. He drew a long breath, then slowly
passed his hand across his eyes, and lips, and mouth. He looked at his mother and seemed about
to speak, but no sound came from his lips. Then his eye fell on his stepfather, who, rather
alarmed at the boy's appearance, was standing near the door. The expression of Ned's face changed,
his mouth became set and rigid, his eyes dilated, and Mr. Mulready, believing that he was about
to spring upon him, drew back hastily half a step and threw up his hands to defend himself.
Mrs. Mulready threw herself in Ned's way; the boy made no effort to put her aside, but kept
his eyes fixed over her shoulder at his stepfather.

"Take care!" he said hoarsely, "it will be my turn next time, and when it comes I will kill
you, you brute."

"Oh, go away, William!" Mrs. Mulready cried; "oh! do go away, or there will be more mischief.
Oh! Ned, do sit down, and don't look so dreadful; he is going now."

Mr. Mulready turned and went with a laugh which he intended to be scornful, but in which there
was a strong tinge of uneasiness. He had always in his heart been afraid of this boy with his
wild and reckless temper, and felt that in his present mood Ned was capable of anything. Still
as Mr. Mulready took his seat in his gig his predominant feeling was satisfaction.

"I am glad I have given him a lesson," he muttered to himself, "and have paid him off for months
of insolence. He won't try it on again, and as for his threats, pooh! he'll be gone in a few
weeks, and there will be an end of it."

After he had gone Mrs. Mulready tried to soothe Ned, but the boy would not listen to her, and
in fact did not seem to hear her.

"Don't you mind, mother," he said in a strange, quiet voice, "I will pay him off;" and muttering
these words over and over again he went out into the hall, took down his cap in a quiet, mechanical
sort of way, put it on, opened the door, and went out.

"Oh! Charlie," Mrs. Mulready said to her second son, who, sobbing bitterly, had thrown himself
down in a chair by the table, and was sitting with his head on his hands, "there will be something
terrible come of this! Ned's temper is so dreadful, and my husband was wrong, too. He should
never have beaten him so, though Ned did say such things to him. What shall I do? these quarrels
will be the death of me. I suppose Ned will be wandering about all night again. Do put on your
cap, Charlie, and go out and see if you can find him, and persuade him to come home and go
to bed; perhaps he will listen to you."

Charlie was absent an hour, and returned saying that he could not find his brother.

"Perhaps he's gone up to Varley as he did last time," Mrs. Mulready said. "I am sure I hope
he has, else he will be wandering about all night, and he had such a strange lock in his face
that there's no saying where he might go to, or what he might do."

Charlie was almost heartbroken, and sat up till long past his usual time, waiting for his brother's
return. At last his eyes would no longer keep open, and he stumbled upstairs to bed, where
he fell asleep almost as his head touched the pillow, in spite of his resolution to be awake
until Ned returned.

Downstairs Mrs. Mulready kept watch. She did not expect Ned to return, but she was listening
for the wheels of her husband's gig. It was uncertain at what time he would return; for when
he rose from the tea table she had asked him what time he expected to be back, and he had replied
that he could not say; he should stop until the repairs were finished, and she was to go to
bed and not bother.

So at eleven o'clock she went upstairs, for once before when he had been out late and she had
sat up he had been much annoyed; but after she got in bed she lay for hours listening for the
sound of the wheels. At last she fell asleep and dreamed that Ned and her husband were standing
at the end of a precipice grappling fiercely together in a life and death struggle. She was
awaked at last by a knocking at the door; she glanced at her watch, which hung above her head;
it was but half past six.

"What is it, Mary?"

"Please, mum, there's a constable below, and he wants to speak to you immediate."

Mrs. Mulready sprang from the bed and began to dress herself hurriedly. All sorts of mischief
that might have come to Ned passed rapidly through her mind; her husband had not returned,
but no doubt he had stopped at the mill all night watching the men at work. His absence scarcely
occasioned her a moment's thought. In a very few minutes she was downstairs in the kitchen,
where the constable was standing waiting for her. She knew him by sight, for Marsden possessed
but four constables, and they were all well known characters.

"What is it?" she asked; "has anything happened to my son?"

"No, mum," the constable said in a tone of surprise, "I didn't know as he wasn't in bed and
asleep, but I have some bad news for you, mum; it's a bad job altogether."

"What is it?" she asked again; "is it my husband?"

"Well, mum, I am sorry to say as it be. A chap came in early this morning and told me as summat
had happened, so I goes out, and half a mile from the town I finds it just as he says."

"But what is it?" Mrs. Mulready gasped.

"Well, mum, I am sorry to have to tell you, but there was the gig all smashed to atoms, and
there was the little black mare lying all in a heap with her neck broke, and there was--" and
he stopped.

"My husband!" Mrs. Mulready gasped.

"Yes, marm, I be main sorry to say it were. There, yards in front of them, were Mr. Mulready
just stiff and cold. He'd been flung right out over the hoss' head. I expect he had fallen
on his head and must have been killed roight out; and the worst of it be, marm, as it warn't
an accident, for there, tight across the road, about eighteen inches above the ground, was
a rope stretched tight atween a gate on either side. It was plain enough to see what had happened.
The mare had come tearing along as usual at twelve mile an hour in the dark, and she had caught
the rope, and in course there had been a regular smash."

The pretty color had all gone from Mrs. Mulready's face as he began his story, but a ghastly
pallor spread over her face, and a look of deadly horror came into her eyes as he continued.

"Oh, Ned, Ned," she wailed, "how could you!" and then she fell senseless to the ground.

The constable raised her and placed her in a chair.

"Are you sure the master's dead?" the servant asked, wiping her eyes.

"Sure enough," the constable said. "I have sent the doctor off already, but it's no good, he's
been dead hours and hours. But," he continued, his professional instincts coming to the surface,
"what did she mean by saying, 'Oh, Ned, how could you!' She asked me, too, first about him;
ain't he at home?"

"No, he ain't," the servant said, "and ain't been at home all night; there were a row between
him and maister last even; they had a fight. Maister Charlie he ran into the parlor as I was
a clearing away the' tea things, hallowing out as maister was a-killing Ned. Missis she ran
in and I heard a scream, then maister he drove off, and a minute or two later Maister Ned he
went out, and he ain't come back again. When I went in with the candles I could see missis
had been a crying. That's all I know about it."

"And enough too," the constable said grimly. "This here be a pretty business. Well, you had
best get your missis round and see about getting the place ready for the corpse. They have
gone up with a stretcher to bring him back. They will be here afore long. I must go to Justice
Thompson's and tell him all about it. This be a pretty kittle of fish, surely. I be main sorry,
but I have got my duty to do."

An hour later Williams the constable with a companion started out in search of Ned Sankey,
having a warrant in his pocket for his arrest on the charge of willful murder.

The excitement in Marsden when it became known that Mr. Mulready had been killed was intense,
and it was immensely heightened when it was rumored that a warrant had been issued for the
arrest of his stepson on the charge of murder. Quite a little crowd hung all day round the
house with closed blinds, within which their so lately active and bustling townsman was lying.

All sorts of conjectures were rife, and there were many who said that they had all along expected
harm would come of the marriage which had followed so soon after the death of Captain Sankey.
The majority were loud in expression of their sympathy with the dead mill owner, recalling
his cheery talk and general good temper. Others were disposed to think that Ned had been driven
to the act; but among very few was there any doubt as to his guilt. It was recalled against
him that he had before been in the dock for his assault upon Mr. Hathorn, and that it had been
proved that he had threatened to kill his master. His sullen and moody demeanor at the marriage
of his mother told terribly against him, and the rumors of the previous quarrel when Ned had
assaulted his stepfather, and which, related with many exaggerations, had at the time furnished
a subject of gossip in the town, also told heavily to his disadvantage.

Williams having learned from the servant that Ned was in the habit of going up to Varley had
first made his inquiries there; but neither Bill nor Luke Marner, who were, the constable speedily
learned, his principal friends there, had seen him. Varley was greatly excited over the news
of the murder. Many of the men worked at Mulready's mill, and had brought back the news at
an early hour, as all work was of course suspended.

There was no grief expressed in Varley at Mr. Mulready's death, indeed the news was received
with jubilant exultation.

"A good job too," was the general verdict; and the constable felt that were Ned in the village
he would be screened by the whole population. He was convinced, however, that both Bill Swinton
and Luke Marner were ignorant of his whereabouts, so genuine had been their astonishment at
his questions, and so deep their indignation when they learned his errand.

"Thou duss'n't believe it, Luke?" Bill Swinton said as he entered the latter's cottage.

"No, lad, oi duss'n't," Luke said; "no more does Polly here, but it looks main awkward," he
said slowly stroking his chin, "if as how what the constable said is right, and there was a
fight atween them that evening."

"Maister Ned were a hot 'un," Bill said; "he allus said as how he had a dreadful temper, though
oi never seed nowt of it in him, and he hated Foxey like poison; that oi allows; but unless
he tells me hisself as he killed him nowt will make me believe it. He might ha' picked up summat
handy when Foxey hit him and smashed him, but oi don't believe it of Maister Ned as he would
ha done it arterward."

"He war a downright bad 'un war Foxey," Luke said, "vor sure. No worse in the district, and
there's many a one as would rejoice as he's gone to his account, and oi believe as whoever's
done it has saved Captain Lud from a job; but there, it's no use a talking of that now. Now,
look here, Bill, what thou hast got to do be this. Thou hast got to find the boy; oi expect
he be hiding somewheres up on t' moors. Thou knowst better nor oi wheere he be likely vor to
be. Voind him out, lad, and tell him as they be arter him. Here be ten punds as oi ha had laying
by me for years ready in case of illness; do thou give it to him and tell him he be heartily
welcome to it, and can pay me back agin when it suits him. Tell him as he'd best make straight
for Liverpool and git aboard a ship there for 'Merikee--never moind whether he did the job
or whether he didn't. Things looks agin him now, and he best be on his way."

"Oi'll do't," Bill said, "and oi'll bid thee goodby, Luke, and thee too, Polly, for ye won't
see me back agin. Of course I shall go wi' him. He haven't got man's strength yet, and oi can
work for us both. I bain't a-going to let him go by hisself, not loikely."

"Thou art roight, lad," Luke said heartily. "Dang it all, lad, thou speak'st loike a man. Oi
be sorry thou art going, Bill, for oi loike thee; but thou be right to go wi' this poor lad.
Goodby, lad, and luck be wi' ye;" and Luke wrung Bill's hand heartily.

"I shan't say goodby, Bill," Mary Powlett said quietly. "I don't think Ned Sankey can have
done this thing, and if he hasn't you will find that he will not run away, but will stay here
and face it out."

"Then he will be a fool," Luke Marner said. "I tell ee the evidence be main strong agin him,
and whether he be innocent or not he will find it hard to clear hisself. Oi don't think much
the worst of him myself if he done it, and most in Varley will be o' my way o' thinking. Foxey
war a tyrant if ever there war one, and the man what was so hard a maister to his hands would
be loike to be hard to his wife's children."

"Don't speak like that, feyther," Polly said; "murder is murder, you know."

"Ay, lass, and human natur be human natur, and it be no use your going agin it. If he ha been
and ill treated the boy, and I don't doubt as he has, thou may'st argue all noight, but thou
won't get me to say as oi blames him much if he has done it. Oi don't suppose as he meant to
kill him--not vor a moment. I should think hard of him if oi thowt as how he did. He meant,
oi reckon, vor to throw his horse down and cut his knees, knowing, as every one did, as Mulready
were moighty proud of his horse, and he may have reckoned as Foxey would git a good shake,
and some bruises as well, as a scare, but oi doan't believe, not vor a moment, as he meant
vor to kill him. That's how oi reads it, lass."

"Well, it may be so," Mary assented. "It is possible he may have done it, meaning really only
to give him a fright and a shake; but I hope he didn't. Still if that was how it happened I
will shake hands, Bill, and wish you goodby and good luck, for it would be best for him to
get away, for I am afraid that the excuse that he only meant to frighten and not to kill him
will not save him. I am sorry you are going, Bill, very sorry; but if you were my own brother
I would not say a word to stop you. Didn't his feyther give up his life to save little Janey?
and I would give mine to save his. But I do think it will be good for you, Bill; times are
bad, and it has been very hard for you lately in Varley. I know all about it, and you will
do better across the seas. You will write, won't you, sometimes?"

"Never fear," Bill said huskily, "oi will wroite, Polly; goodby, and God bless you all; but
it mayn't be goodby, for oi mayn't foind him;" and, wringing the hands of Luke and Polly, Bill
returned to his cottage, hastily packed up a few things in a kit, slung it over his shoulder
on a stick, and started out in search of Ned.

Late that evening there came a knock at the door of Luke's cottage. On opening it he found
Bill standing there.

"Back again, Bill!--then thou hasn't found him?"

"No," Bill replied in a dejected voice. "Oi ha' hoonted high and low vor him; oi ha' been to
every place on the moor wheer we ha' been together, and wheer oi thowt as he might be a-waiting
knowing as oi should set out to look for him as soon as oi heard the news. Oi don't think he
be nowhere on the moor. Oi have been a-tramping ever sin' oi started this mourning. Twice oi
ha' been down Maarsten to see if so be as they've took him, but nowt ain't been seen of him.
Oi had just coom from there now. Thou'st heerd, oi suppose, as the crowner's jury ha found
as Foxey wer murdered by him; but it bain't true, you know, Luke--be it?"

Bill made the assertions stoutly, but there was a tremulous eagerness in the question which
followed it; He was fagged and exhausted. His faith in Ned was strong, but he had found the
opinion in the town so unanimous against him that he longed for an assurance that some one
beside himself believed in Ned's innocence.

"Oi doan't know, Bill," Luke Marner said, stroking his chin as he always did when he was thinking;
"oi doan't know, Bill--oi hoape he didn't do it, wi' all my heart. But oi doan't know aboot
it. He war sorely tried--that be sartain. But if he did it, he did it; it makes no difference
to me. It doan't matter to me one snap ov the finger whether the lad killed Foxey or whether
he didn't--that bain't my business or yours. What consarns me is, as the son of the man as
saved my child's loife at t' cost of his own be hunted by the constables and be in risk of
his loife. That's t' question as comes home to me--oi've had nowt else ringing in my ears all
day. Oi ha' been oot to a searching high and low. Oi ain't a found him, but oi ha made oop
moi moind whaat I be agoing to do."

They had moved a little away from the cottage now, but Luke lowered his voice:

"Oi be agoing down to t' town in the morning to give moiself oop vor the murder of Foxey."

Bill gave an exclamation of astonishment:

"But thou didn'st do it, Luke?"

"I moight ha' done it for owt thou know'st, Bill. He wer the worst of maisters, and, as thou
know'st, Bill, oi hated him joost as all the countryside did. He's been warned by King Lud
and ha' been obliged to get the sojers at his factory. Well, thou knowest it was nateral as
he would drive down last noight to see how t' chaps at t' engine was a-getting on, and it coomed
across my moind as it wer a good opportunity vor to finish un; so ther thou hast it."

Bill gazed in astonishment through the darkness at his companion.

"But it bain't true, Luke? Thou wast talking to me arter thou coom'd out of the Coo at noine
o'clock, an thou saidst as thou was off to bed."

"Nowt of the koind," Luke replied. "Oi told ye, thou know'st, as I wer a-going down to t' toon
and oi had got a job in hand. Oi spoke mysterous loike, and you noticed as how oi had got a
long rope coiled up in moi hand."

Bill gave a gasp of astonishment.

"That's what thou hast got to say," Luke said doggedly; "only astead o' its being at noine
o'clock it war at ten. Oi were just a-slipping owt of the cottage, t' others were all asleep
and knew nowt aboot moi having goone out."

Bill was silent now.

"Oi wish oi had a-thowt of it," he said at last; "oi would ha' doon it moiself."

"Oi wouldn't ha' let thee, Bill," Luke said quietly. "He be a friend of thine, and oi know
thou lovest him loike a brother, and a soight mor'n most brothers; but it be moi roight. The
captain gave his loife vor moi child's, and oi bee a going vor to give mine for his. That will
make us quits. Besides, thou art young; oi be a-getting on. 

European states have need for this kind of reciprocal trade, to use every a special productions.
In this regard, and in comparison to the small to big, the highest commercial future issues
may apply to the Republic of Bolivia; presenting it in its various provinces all areas, all
temperaments, and may lead to the promotion of industry produce all that other peoples and countries
of the world.

Meanwhile, the first step to be taken for the advancement and improvement of the province of
Caupolican, and to make her readily acquire the degree of commercial importance to which it
is intended, is the establishment of channels of communication with the provinces the interior,
and also that of women who must mediate between the various points inhabited. Is easy to open
on every mountain trails not much cost to the transit of mules because the stones (the most
accurate material) are at hand, not so demanding other conservation of these methods but a slight
care. In places where it has established this, over a considerable space of miles, the abominable
system of palisades or log crossing, it could build roads or stone embankments, and to prevent that
drains these to the continuous passage of beasts, to fill with rain water, give a convex shape
and open a small ditch on each side for those spills, as practiced in the construction of highways
across Europe.

These paths indicate not need an excessive width, and therefore does not require great expense, to
more of this, the imposition of a Peage right, nothing burdensome for their reasonableness bystanders,
would cover anticipated expenditures easily from the Government. Engineers in the field of bridges
and roads, currently practicing in the Republic, may moreover, in view of local resources, take
over the most economic means as may be necessary to establish as soon as possible, with the
cooperation and goodwill of the Indians, these vias communication, the only means of stimulating trade
v industry, and civilization turn of the province.

Caupolican in this respect is perhaps the most favored of all the provinces of Bolivia, is crossed
by navigable rivers of the usefulness and importance seems not to do the least attention. How is
it possible to believe, for example, that since ancient times (more than sixty years) is being
done to carry on the shoulders of the unfortunate Indians, by the excessive firing of fifty
or sixty leagues, to the capital of the province, all the fruits of the inland towns of Ysiamas of
Tumupaza and Saint-Joseph, being so easy to ship them and pass them up by the Rio-Beni to a point
not far from Apollo? Or as will be credible that, having at his disposal a vehicle of such importance,
a river as mighty as the Beni, no use is made up this, to go from Ysiamas to Cavinas, but petty
rafts, while account more than a century and a half since that Moxos sailing in canoes? It is
therefore very unlikely that such Caupolican backward state in even relatively to the neighboring
provinces, not from not checked lack of business relationships. And actually going to talk about
the province Caupolican, to a Potosino for example, is dealing with a thing that only you know
the name, known as those of China and Turkey, but not for the world
is after him there passed.

With media navigation as simple as you can imagine what will become Cavinas, Ysiamas and Tumupaza
when sailing vessels or steam transport their products, in quantities the more weight you will,
both to near the river Tuyche Apollo, as to a short La-Paz shot by rivers and Bogpi Mocetenes.
It suffices, however, to cease from then the sad servitude of the Indians to engage in the
navigation of boats, but so that The construction of these were comfortable and not expensive,
it would need the government to do intelligent men come from Europe in art, in order that, saving
unnecessary costs, could lead to the natives in the building, the weapons and how to make use
of such vessels. Without this precaution, the inexperience of the people can still slow, long,
the execution of a measure that is of prime necessity for improving
the province.

I could say a word here about the benefits that are reserved to the province with the navigation of
the river Beni to the Amazon, down then up the sea to make his way to Europe, but, as I have
to touch this point when discussing the province Moxos, which is
also crossed by the river Beni, then let the exposition and examination
of important issues.

Réstame talk about some other improvements necessary to the welfare of the inhabitants of Caupolican.
The means to restore your health to the country, cutting off the evil caused by the cold of
South wind so deadly for the creatures of the inland towns, as well as the ravages caused by the smallpox
among the elderly, when the classrooms of Medicine Republic provide such a number of disciples
who can put the state in each province an optional fixed and paid enough so that the question of the
priests Ausilio to preserve the appalling infant mortality, and spread
the application of the vaccine, together with other health condoms.

Missionaries learned and zealous could also, with the support of the Government, take responsible
for the conversion of savages breeds found in the north and north-west
of Tumupaza, Isiamas and Cavinas, creating small towns, where these
Indians took a liking to the benefits of social life, thus contributing
greatly to the general good of the country.

Currently, the immoderate use of spirits such as brandy, which in religious festivities to drink
too much, brings pecuniary ruin of indigenous the great deterioration of his health, and, therefore
indispensable, the disorder in customs. Would be easy, however, remedy evils of this nature,
imposing heavy rights to the introduction of such harmful liquids, or taking any other measures
his good sense dictates to the Government for there is nothing so pitiful as to see how much
damage excesses similar to social advancement, morally and physically
brutalizing those who are left dominated by them.

Finally, the establishment of a school of first letters in each parish, as which has now been judiciously
urgency felt by the Government, will help spread slowly throughout the Republic the national
language, completely extinguished native languages, used even in places where, on the other hand,
the extent of trade relations altering them go from day to day.

While these languages ​​still exist, there will be a powerful obstacle
to the onward march of civilization.

MOXOS Province

Division and extent.

Moxos province, one of the most spacious in Bolivia, hugging herself as both ground as one or two departments
of the mountainous regions, occupies the northern extremity the republic and the department
of Beni, representing an oblong surface, which is directed of northwest to southeast, are
between 10 and 16 degrees south latitude and 64 and 70 west longitude meridian of Paris. This
surface, which has little about twenty square degrees, or are thirteen thousand seven hundred
and fifty leagues, to twenty-five the degree, is bounded on the north by the Guaporé or Itenes
and Beni (river to draw the boundary between Bolivia and Brazil), with the latter that separates
it from the Caupolican province by the north-west parle.

Natural limits to the west by the side of the country of Yuracares
are desert plains are located at the foot of last foothills of the
Andes.

Finally, the province is circumscribed towards Moxos the south, southeast and east by immense
impenetrable forests or swamps brought without certain threshold, between it and the provinces
of Santa Cruz de la Sierra and Chiquitos.

Mountains.

Albeit quite Moxos province neighboring hills to the Chiquitos east and north to the Brazilian
mountains, outlining the right bank of Itenes river, and west to the last foot of the mountains
of the Yuracares, contains no in its division one mountain, nor even minor hills, formed by So
a flat surface, which meets the south with the vast plains of Santa Cruz of the Sierra, and
the north-west with the province Caupolican. On the horizon without limits, scarcely four highlights
are found rising to the height of thirty poles on the remainder of the land, and that, unless
it be in the midst of a country so highly level, it would perhaps inapercibidos. These four points
are a few morons isolated the first which is the Cerro del Carmen, is situated about twelve or fifteen
miles southeast of the mission its name, and between the rivers Blanco and San-Miguel, the
second placed on the bank Machupo River right, and neighbor to the
mission that is called, is the hill of San-Ramon, the third is a small
hill below the Exaltation located on the right bank of the Mamore:
finally, the fourth, which is the hill of Saint-Simon, is found east
of Magdalena, his reputation I feel very rich doubtful, as it must
be that of all places inaccessible ensures no However, it is full
of mines of gold and diamonds.

Rios.

In a mountainous country reliefs determine the direction of the currents; per in Moxos whose territory
no more than a single uniform and without sharp plain, where eminences that separate small rivers disappear
under the flood at stations rain, in canoes through allowing a large part of the province,
all currents the plain weave circuit converging towards the center,
and heading to the slopes Amazon, after having met on three main,
which are the Guaporé or Iten, the Mamore and Beni.

Guaporé or Itenes tributaries.

The Barbados born in Rio de Chiquitos Province [1], at quite a distance away from Moxos: This
stream, chief among those that give birth to Guaporé, is navigable Casalbasco further up. As
she starts in a swamp where the river takes origin also Paraguay, would very likely join the
first tributary of this river with Guaporé, opening for this channel
only four thousand eight hundred yards.

In this way they would hand the two giant rivers of South America, the Plata and Amazon coming to
form a natural channel of over two hundred thousand leagues.

The Rio Verde takes origin north of San-Ignacio de Chiquitos, and
moving toward the northwest, go to Barbados to meet the river, near
the 64 degrees of longitude and latitude of 14, forming Guaporé this
river or Itenes: steamboats can freely browse and upload it too up
towards its headwaters.

The Rio Serre was born north of Concepcion de Chiquitos, and in the
same direction as the Green River, joins the Guaporé twenty-five miles
below.

It is equally navigable for boats of any dimension.

The Rio Blanco or Baures also takes its origin north of Concepcion de Chiquitos, and as previous
two is heading towards the northwest, passing immediately and to
Carmen Concepcion Moxos to go to flow into the Guaporé, near the fort
of Beira.

You can browse this river to Chiquitos.

The Rio Itonama receives, under the name Rio de San-Miguel, much of the waters of Chiquitos; is
then attached to Huacaré near Guarayos, and is parallel to the Rio
Blanco to join Guaporé conjunction with the Machupo River, near the
fort of Beira.

Ships can steam everywhere sail on its waters to Chiquitos.

The Rio Machupo wealthy tribute of many streams that leave from the bosom of the plains Moxos
flooded, these streams are, San-Juan, navigable from San-Pedro, the Mooch, Mill, the Machupo and
Chananoca, all gathered and when the river passes Machupo ahead of
the missions of San-Ramon and San-Joaquin, to go and join the river
Itonama, and to couple this throw then in the Guaporé, also near the
fort of Beira.

Guaporé river, once the repository of all these streams of water running
towards the oestenorueste to become incorporated with the Mamore,
around 12 degrees south latitude and 68 west longitude meridian of
Paris.

Tributaries of the Mamore.

Mamore river receives all the waters of the eastern slopes of the mountains, its tributaries, starting
with those found further east, are as follows.

Ivary River rises in the flood plains that are west of the country of Guarayos and heading towards
the northwest, left receives the waters of the rivers Tico and San-Antonio, going to meet with
the Mamore a little above the Trinity Moxos. River is navigable body almost all along its course.

The
Rio Grande has all the waters Chayanta mountainous provinces of Cochabamba,
Mizque and Valle Grande, then descending to the plains of Santa Cruz,
and Adunaic Piray to form the Sara river north of the province.

You can browse their waves up near Santa Cruz de la Sierra.

Piray River rises in the mountains of Samaypata, province of Valle Grande, flows into the plain
of Santa Cruz de la Sierra, and passes near the city of that name, receiving everywhere small
tribute, and then continuing parallel to the Rio Grande to join with him to form the Sara River,
far to the south of 15 degrees latitude.

Its still very fast current in some parts, but when mother leaves can navigate the waters ships
of any dimension.

The Rio Ibaba takes origin under the name of Yapacany in the mountains
east towards the east the country of the Yuracarés, and continues
to run, parallel to the rivers Grande and Piray up Sara plunge into
the river, a few miles below the point at which flows in this same
the last of those.

Ibaba river is navigable for the most part.

The Rio Mamore born east of the river Ibaba on the mountains of the eastern slope of the and
the country ranges from Yuracares. His current that flows received course the Chimoré, walks
along the plain towards the north Moxos, bending a few degrees west. This river, receiving
the tribute of the other rivers of the province preserves Mamore name to 10 degrees south
latitude, in which the term incorporated with Beni, making the denomination
of the Madeira River.

The Mamore can serve as a vehicle to the cruise to the foot of the mountains.

The Rio Chapare, consisting of rivers Coni, San-Mateo, Paracti and many others born in the country
of Yuracares, west of Mamore on the eastern slopes of the mountains,
and heading north meets the south towards the Mamore 15 degrees south
latitude.

You can browse by him, to the confluence of the river Coni, ie to the point where the plain begins.

Securi
River, formed by the rivers Chipiriri Samucebeté, Isidoro, Yaniyuta, and Sinuta Securi, all
of them navigable to the foot of the mountains, receives the streams of the watershed East
of these, from 68 to 70 degrees west longitude, and is incorporated
the above Mamoré of Trinidad, north of 15 degrees latitude.

Tijamuchi River rises in the Eastern Cordillera, west of the last tributaries Securi river, the
river receives water Taricuri and crosses the plain of the province
by the northeast to the Mamore, which meets as 14 degrees latitude,
a little above Mission San-Pedro.

"I think I meant for you, Ned. I cannot pretend to have any feeling for the man who is dead,
especially when I look at your face."

"Yes, it is not a nice position for me," Ned said coldly, "just at the age of seventeen to
be suspected of the murder of one's stepfather, and such a nice stepfather too, such a popular
man in the town! And not only suspected, but with a good chance of being hung for it."

"Ned, my dear boy," Mr. Porson said kindly, "don't talk in that way. You know that we, your
friends, are sure that you did not do it."

"Are you quite sure, sir?" Ned said. "I am not quite sure myself. I know I should have done
it if I had had the chance. I thought over all sorts of ways in which I might kill him, and
I wouldn't quite swear that I did not think of this plan and carry it out, though it doesn't
quite seem to me that I did. I have no very definite idea what happened that night, and certainly
could give but a vague account of myself from the time I left the house till next morning,
when I found myself lying stiff and half frozen on the moor. Anyhow, whether I killed him or
not it's all the same. I should have done so if I could. And if some one else has saved me
the trouble I suppose I ought to feel obliged to him."

Mr. Porson saw that in Ned's present state it was useless to talk to him. Two nights without
sleep, together with the intense excitement he had gone through, had worked his brain to such
a state of tension that he was not responsible for what he was saying. Further conversation
would do him harm rather than good. What he required was rest and, if possible, sleep. Mr.
Porson therefore only said quietly:

"We will not talk about it now, Ned; your brain is over excited with all you have gone through.
What you want now is rest and sleep."

"I don't feel sleepy, Mr. Porson. I don't feel as if I should ever get to sleep again. I don't
look like it, do I?"

"No, Ned, I don't think you do at present; but I wish you did, my boy. Well, remember that
we, your old friends, all believe you innocent of this thing, and that we will spare no pains
to prove it to the world. I see," he said, looking at the table, "that you have not touched
your breakfast. I am not surprised that you could not eat it. I will see that you have a cup
of really good tea sent you in."

"No," Ned said with a laugh which it pained Mr. Porson to hear, "I have not eaten since I had
tea at home. It was only the day before yesterday, but it seems a year."

On leaving the cell Mr. Porson went to Dr. Green, who lived only three or four doors away,
told him of the state in which he had found Ned, and begged him to give him a strong and, as
far as possible, tasteless sedative, and to put it in a cup of tea.

"Yes, that will be the best thing," the doctor replied. "I had better not go and see him, for
talking will do him harm rather than good. We shall be having him on our hands with brain fever
if this goes on. I will go round with the tea myself to the head constable and tell him that
no one must on any account be permitted to see Ned, and that rest and quiet are absolutely
necessary for him. I will put a strong dose of opium into the tea."

Ten minutes later Dr. Green called upon the chief constable and told him that he feared from
what he had heard from Mr. Porson that Ned was in a very critical state, and that unless he
got rest and sleep he would probably have an attack of brain fever, even if his mind did not
give way altogether.

"I was intending to have him removed at once," the officer said, "to a comfortable room at
my own house. He was only placed where he is temporarily. I exchanged a few words with him
after the examination and was struck myself with the strangeness of his tone. Won't you see him?"

"I think that any talk is bad for him," the doctor said. "I have put a strong dose of opium
in this tea, and I hope it will send him off to sleep. When he recovers I will see him."

"I think, doctor," the constable said significantly, "it would be a good thing if you were
to see him at once. You see, if things go against him, and between ourselves the case is a
very ugly one, if you could get in the box and say that you saw him here, and that, in your
opinion, his mind was shaken, and that as likely as not he had not been responsible for his
actions from the time he left his mother's house, it might save his life."

"That is a capital idea," Dr. Green said, "and Porson's evidence would back mine. Yes, I will
go in and see him even if my visit does do him harm."

"I will move him into his new quarters first," the officer said; "then if he drinks the tea
he may, if he feels sleepy, throw himself on the bed and go off. He will be quiet and undisturbed
there."

Two or three minutes later the doctor was shown into a comfortable room. A fire was burning
brightly, and the tea was placed on a little tray with a new roll and a pat of butter.

Ned's mood had somewhat changed. He received the doctor with a boisterous laugh.

"How are you, doctor? Here I am, you see, monarch of all I survey. This is the first time you
have visited me in a room which I could consider entirely my own. Not a bad place either."

"I hope you will not be here long, Ned," Dr. Green said, humoring him. "We shall all do our
best to get you out as soon as we can."

"I don't think your trying will be of much use, doctor; but what's the odds as long as you
are happy!"

"That's right, my boy, nothing like looking at matters cheerfully. You know, lad, how warmly
all your old friends are with you. Would you like me to bring Charlie next time I come?"

"No, no, doctor," Ned said almost with a cry. "No. I have thought it over, and Charlie must
not see me. It will do him harm and I shall break down. I shall have to see him at the trial--of
course he must be there--that will be bad enough."

"Very well," the doctor said quietly, "just as you like, Ned. I shall be seeing you every day,
and will give him news of you. I am going to see him now."

"Tell him I am well and comfortable and jolly," Ned said recklessly.

"I will tell him you are comfortable, Ned, and I should like to tell him that you had eaten
your breakfast."

"Oh, yes! Tell him that. Say I ate it voraciously." And he swallowed down the cup of tea and
took a bite at the roll.

"I will tell him," Dr. Green said. "I will come in again this evening, and will perhaps bring
in with me a little medicine. You will be all the better for a soothing draught."

"I want no draughts," Ned said. "Why should I? I am as right as ninepence."

"Very well. We will see," the doctor said. "Now I must be going my rounds."

As soon as he had gone Ned began pacing up and down the room, as he had done the whole of the
past night without intermission. Gradually, however, the powerful narcotic began to take effect.
His walk became slower, his head began to droop, and at last he stumbled toward the bed in
the corner of the room, threw himself heavily down, and was almost instantly sound asleep.
Five minutes later the door opened quietly and Dr. Green entered.

He had been listening outside the door, had noticed the change in the character of Ned's walk,
and having heard the fall upon the bed, and had no fear of his rousing himself at his entrance.
The boy was lying across the bed, and the doctor, who was a powerful man, lifted him gently
and laid him with his head upon the pillow. He felt his pulse, and lifted his eyelid.

"It was a strong dose," he said to himself, "far stronger than I should have dared give him
at any other time, but nothing less would have acted, with his brain in such an excited state.
I must keep in the town today and look in from time to time and see how he is going on. It
may be that I shall have to take steps to rouse him."

At the next visit Dr. Green looked somewhat anxious as he listened to the boy's breathing and
saw how strongly he was under the influence of the narcotic. This custom, it is extirpate, forces
from both the priests to join at a very early age to the young, with object to somehow explain
away the behavior of these and their relatives, for what girls are formally married eight years
with twelve young men. The worship of these exterior is but natural, so that his conscience is
entirely foreign to all kinds scruples. Men cross a spontaneously their wives, which in turn is
also when they want to give all his relatives. I have already spoken in another place, for the
superstitions that dominate with respect to disease, and the barbaric conduct these superstitions
are forced to look for the sick.

The population of the mission for Magdalena amounted in 1820 to 2100 and eight souls, 1832,
to two thousand seven hundred eighty-one, for so in the space of eleven years the increase it had been
only six hundred souls seventy-three.

In 1832, state farms had seven thousand seven hundred and fifty head
of cattle cattle, and two thousand nine hundred and twenty horses.

There are 20 degrees north east of Magdalena, a mountain whose summit
is visible from very far on the horizon to aim it is necessary to
take advantage of the dry season, and if not, one in which the general
flood allows free navigation through the plain.

Magdalena road to Concepcion.

Baures Concepcion Magdalena far from twenty miles to the south. At the station dry leaves on
horseback, across the plain, but in the rainy season is up nine leagues Itonama the river, much
curved near Magdalena and passing through flooded meadows in part, but populated by thousands
of cattle belonging to the rooms in San-Antonio and San-Miguel are discovered at one side of
river. From time to time also became aware on the riverbank some capybaras and alligators that
come out of the water. The edges of this River, which is enough width, are bare of trees until
they reached their confluence with the stream of Guacaraje, by which three leagues up to the
port of Concepcion, located on the bank. This port, nine leagues from Concepcion, and in which
there a captain in charge of your vigilance, is the starting point for missions and Moxos
Mamore, not being able to continue on the White River, whose large and numerous rodeos greatly
lengthen the path. Leaving the port is followed by a beautiful road from two miles long, built
by the Jesuits in the middle of a swamp. This road, made no more than land, perfectly drawn, and
easy transit all the time, leads to a forest also two miles long, and covered with palm fronds
and palm tree variety very beautiful, which adorn a sandy soil, full of blackened earth, very
convenient for tillage. After the jungle, there is another road almost as long and well built as
the first, then some boscages, and finally a plain, flooded in parts, leading to the Rio Blanco.
Pass the canoe, after having made to swim the horses often drown often frightened by the alligators,
so abundant in all rivers. A third road of the same nature as before, leading finally crossing straight
line a deep swamp, to the town of Concepcion.

Immaculate Conception of BAUR.

The mission of Immaculate Conception Baur was founded by the Jesuits, then the year 1700, with
the Indians of the nation Baur, who were at that time, as the Moxos, the most industrious natives
of those regions, knowing protect, and constructed tected clothing or cotton robes. The people
and the beautiful cultivated fields around it, occupy a quite spacious and very even, which always
remained dry and being surrounded by swamps, has to form in the rainy season a kind of island a distance
of just over a quarter of a mile of the stream called Black, by which indigenous people are fields
planted to yourself.

A dirt road, which is two leagues long, to this stream joins with the Rio Blanco.

Among the buildings in this mission are distinguished, the church built with wood and bricks,
and his school, which consists of many courtyards, in the first has a flat building high, the
lower rooms that form the periphery of the others, serve as workshops. In each of the four
corners of the square, which is quite spacious, there is a chapel, the center is occupied
by a large cross surrounded by beautiful palm Kuchi, on the sides
are seen numerous houses of the Indians, placed in a row and placed
in the most suitable for facilitate ventilation.

These Indians are, as I said, the most industrious of the missions, do some tected very fine cotton
and a lot of esteem in the republic: the hammocks that make no can be of better quality, but
it is also true that require assiduous work, and that between six wives employ one or two
months in the fabrication of a single hammock. There are workshops tegedura, painting, carpentry,
where you can admire, and painted tablecloths pen, very original work, and chests and boxes
neatly worked, and a thousand other objects made of rosewood inlaid with mother of pearl. Also
Fabrícanse chests, beds journey, etc. Other artisans are engaged in skillfully weave fine straw
and nothing brittle, with making hats, cases and lots of gorgeous objects. Finally, this population,
the most industrious of the province, exploiting all known for their curious jobs served many times
without other tools than their knives, which merely duplicate merit: there are used gourds, transforming
them into jars or painted vases, which look so beautiful as those of China, the coconut, making
boxes turned, and many other materials such as antlers, bones, crocodile teeth, ETC. small luxury
items and useful.

Mission plantations are vast, and as they are very well maintained, occur abundant cotton, maize,
cassava, rice, sugar cane and cocoa fruits are property State.

Plantations belonging to the Indians are somewhat apart from the mission on the banks Black creek.

In
1830, the locked state farms nine thousand three hundred forty-two
heads cattle and two thousand three hundred twenty-nine horses.

Concepcion has changed somewhat under the government of the republic.

The difference in products both manufacturing and farming, observed between 1803 and 1830,
given a proof.

+------------------------------------------------- --- + | | 1804. | 1830. | | |-------+-------|
| Cocoa. arrobas. | 118 | 120 | | Beeswax. "| 21 | 7 | | Sebo. "| 80 | 40 | | Sassafras." |
11 | "| | white cotton nuggets. "| 197 | 925 | | Cotton lint." | "| 33 | | Canvas. rods. |
2.411 | 2.154 | | hand wipes. | 60 | 29 | | Tablecloths. | 5 | 32 | | Sheets. pairs. | 28
| 24 | | Desktops. | 18 | 30 | | Sox. "| 36 | 6 | | Caps. | 80 |" | | Ponchos. | 10 | 62 |
| Napkins. | " | 32 | | Scarf neck. | "| 23 | +--------------------------------------------
--------+

Baures Indians, residents of Concepcion, usually attached to his toughness and physical strength,
a very kind and gentle character, but unfortunately so timid that the only fear of punishment
are determined to yield and bow to it. The chief, whose authority borders on Absolutism is the
despot more rigid, and never leave unless accompanied by his lieutenant and interpreter. The
Indians profess a servile respect, so when you see it coming, are removed hat from far away, crossing
his arms over his chest he may not do so would punished severely as has happened many times. Administrators
and priests, not dealing more than their interests, leaving all copyright to these proud chiefs, who
have no qualms about abusing her at his own discretion, and as today or religion, or customs of the
Jesuits severe to discourage their derangement, drink chicha maize continuously to get drunk,
then administering justice according to his whims. It has been noted that individuals living Concepcion
very little time when they come to obtain the position of chiefs, a circumstance which necessarily
abuse brutal that make all the joys that provides the new range, which at the same time that
destroys your health, so puffed up, that certainly would change their badges cacique on an
imperial throne.

The bad example is the unbridled depravity of superior breeds corruption
a people who scarcely discerned on the horizon the first dawn of civilization,
so Concepcion as residents were already filled with vicious shameful,
and immorality has reached its highest degree.

The girls, completely naked until the age of consent, know no modesty, so nothing can curb bad
behavior later, above all, having already extinguished the principles
of sound morality professed before the natives, and returned to dominate
among the women the beautiful custom confused with many other palm
trees look beautiful.

As are forbidden to Indians of all missions Moxos going armed rebellion from held in San-Pedro,
hunting is plentiful in all these spot, growing more and more not being pursued. The monkeys are
having fun at every step to the travelers with their faces and bounds: there is also a kind
of night monkeys. The river is full of dolphins dolphin or a very strange kind that lives in
fresh water constantly: his skin is pintitas pink or dotted. It is one thing that really surprised
to find these animals more than eight hundred leagues from the sea, when the known species
live forever in the oceans, or just upload a few leagues from the mouth of the rivers.

When the rainy season is well underway, you can save a third of the way out by canoe from the
same mission, and across the plain in a straight line until to a stream called Oquire, which will
lead to the right in the White River, which then leads to Carmen.

OUR LADY OF CARMEN.

The people of this name, which lies, as above, fifteen miles south of Concepcion Baures, is
located on the right bank and at a short distance from White River,
occupying the center of a plain where flooding never reached.

The church is simple: State houses, grout with tiles, are temporary:
the rooms of indigenous have thatched roofs are in very bad condition.

Four totais palms that surround the average cross placed in the plaza, is perhaps what is most notable
in this mission.

Perhaps nowhere has as many bats as in the Carmen. Throughout the day remained hidden under the
roof, letting out a very loud odor similar to musk. When night falls, thousands of them out
to wander through the air to pursue relentlessly mosquitoes without
ever destroy them.

Around the village should be picturesque in dry weather, but in the rainy season, Only the banks
of White River offers a pleasant look for cocoa plantations that
adorn.

A very comfortable road leading from the river mission.

In 1792, having been informed that the manager of Concepcion near
the headwaters White River there was a tribe of savage Indians, took
part in this event the governor Zamora, who was ordered to fetch them,
taking to it all necessary measures [1].

In 1794, haprimitiva of the nation, delivered without reservation to all his relatives.

In sung Masses that are said in the church at Concepcion, yet still held apparatus employing the
Jesuits, instrumental music is such, that surprises really captivating
taste to pair admiration.

The bass tones are produced by an instrument of the invention of the Indians, a kind of pastoral
flute to bagpipe, a or two yards long and made of palm leaves, bound one to another, forming thirteen
tubes different size and thickness, nine of these tubes are placed on a line for notes whole,
and four on one for the midtones. To play this instrument, whose notes low produce extraordinary
sound, it is necessary to place it horizontally, not address zampoña vertical and ordinary.
Finished the Mass, some Indians, crowned with feathers, leg full of bells and carrying in his hand
a large wooden sword, running ahead the church a religious dance and martial very monotonous;
completed this, there are more sixty musicians, armed with flutes of every shade, from the highest
notes to the lowest, and standing in two rows, are started slowly and a Compaz unique music,
accompanied by drums [1]. Each of the musicians made their instruments to produce one particular
note, and all these savages generally flatter entirely consistent heard many times of their
great harmony. This troupe of musicians, followed by the people, stops to pray before the shrines
that adorn the four corners of the square.

In 1830, the population of Concepcion was composed of three thousand one hundred twenty-six individuals
and was divided into twenty sections, or bias, whose names are: Gimoboconos, Hompaceboconos,
Write to us, Tirajabanos, Nipocenos, Coriceboconos, Choyinobenos,
Itapimuyiros, Taramuinos, Chaquionos, Muchogeonos, Choromonos, Cabiripoyanos,
Abejanos, Arayamanos, Amoriciboconos, Paresabanos, Paromoconos, Abenbanos,
Joboconos.

Road to Carmen Concepcion.

Cuéntanse fifteen leagues from the Carmen Concepcion, which is towards
the the south, or if you like, two days of sailing, climbing canoeing
on the White River is very deep, well boxed and much wider than the
Rio de San-Miguel, it has at least one hundred fifty yards from side
to side.

Although little difference in appearance looks the same, its current
is somewhat more tortuous, and increases with the charge of streams
that flow from the neighboring marshes.

Its banks are well-built manned the Baures a number of canoes, sufficient to carry out this
expedition, headed the indicated place, where they found hundreds of Indians, the rest of the
nation Tapacura, submitted by the Jesuits in Concepcion de Chiquitos, and taking with him willingly
or by force hundred individuals, together with ninety-five families Moxos Concepcion, the which
composed a total of three hundred fourteen Baures, creating the mixed population in this small
town del Carmen. This was first built near the banks of White River, about twelve miles southeast
of the site now occupied, but by unsafe site, was transferred in the year of 1801 to the point
where this exists.

The Tapacura it agreed readily to the customs of the missions, and soon they was so submissive
to all the same rules as Baures.

The population was composed of Carmen at the time of its foundation, of five hundred and fifteen people;
but having intermittent fevers prevented its accretion in 1801 was
almost the same notwithstanding that there were seventeen native who
spent seventy years [1].

In 1815 there were reached number sixty-six six hundred inhabitants in 1822, that of seven hundred
and sixty and eight, and in 1830, nine hundred and thirty-two.

This figure is very low provided to the fertility of Indian women to stop almost every year, but three-quarters
of children usually die on the eighth day of his birth. This population was composed, in that
year of 1830, the following indigenous

Quitemocas or Chapacuras. 340 Muchojeones. 230 Baures. 362 ----- 932

The Quitemocas, Chapacuras, or Tapacura have retained their original language, although they
Baures language use has become widespread in all missions Moxos East:
the Muchojeones speak a dialect slightly different from that of the
Baures.

      All these natives are kind in extremity.

The
      population of Carmen is the most
      backward of all the province with
                                  respect
                                   to industry factory, their very ordinary tected.

Cocoa products also yield the most fruitful you should, because of the great neglect with which
it is grown. In the surrounding forests is reflected large number of excellent vanilla.

In 1830, state farms were composed of three thousand six hundred animals,
cattle, and three thousand two hundred ninety-two horses.

All located on the south plains of Carmen and on the bank of the river San-Miguel, are also populated
entirely earned savages and it is estimated that the number should exceed ten thousand.

Major means of communication between the province and neighboring
provinces Moxos.

Currently, the province announced Moxos, with the river Chiquitos San-Miguel, with Yuracare and
Cochabamba Chapare river, and also by the way practiced by me down
Securi river, with Santa Cruz de la Sierra in the rivers Grande and
Piray.

I shall give here a indication of these various vehicles of communication.

Moxos Guarayos Walk to the river of San-Miguel.

Seven or eight days they used to be the country of the Carmen de Moxos
Guarayos, falling in canoe, about sixty leagues to the northwest,
by the river San-Miguel, the edges in Guarayos near present an extremely
varied.

On their own embankment is discover some virgin forests, and whose
foliage of varying colors stand Tufts Mambu bounds of canes or tacuaras,
contrasting with the finely cut leaf of lambaibas, or with the dark
green of the palms palm fronds.



So encouraged Charlie told the whole story of the quarrel arising in the first place from his
stepfather's ill temper at the tea table.

"Your brother meant nothing specially unpleasant in calling your stepfather Foxey?" Mr. Wakefield
asked.

"No, sir; he had always called him so even before he knew that he was going to marry mother.
It was a name, I believe, the men called him, and Ned got it from them."

"I believe that your stepfather had received threatening letters, had he not?"

"Yes, sir, several; he was afraid to put his new machines to work because of them."

"Thank you, that will do," Mr. Wakefield said. "I have those letters in my possession," he
went on to the magistrates. "They are proof that the deceased had enemies who had threatened
to take his life. Shall I produce them now?"

"It is hardly worth while, Mr. Wakefield, though they can be brought forward at the trial.
I may say, indeed, that we have seen some of them already, for it was on account of these letters
that we applied for the military to be stationed here."

It was not thought necessary to call Mrs. Mulready; but the servant gave her evidence as to
what she had heard of the quarrel, and as to the absence of Ned from home that night.

"Unless you are in a position to produce evidence, Mr. Wakefield, proving clearly that at the
time the murder was committed the prisoner was at a distance from the spot, we are prepared
to commit him for trial."

Mr. Wakefield intimated that he should reserve his evidence for the trial itself, and Ned was
then formally committed.

The examination in no way altered the tone of public opinion. The general opinion was that
Ned had followed his stepfather to the mill, intending to attack him, that he had stumbled
onto the coil of rope, and the idea occurred to him of tying it across the road and upsetting
the gig on its return. Charlie's evidence as to the savage assault upon his brother had created
a stronger feeling of sympathy than had before prevailed, and had the line of defense been
that, smarting under his injuries, Ned had suddenly determined to injure his stepfather by
upsetting the gig, but without any idea of killing him, the general opinion would have been
that under such provocation as Ned had received a lengthened term of imprisonment would have
been an ample punishment. More than one, indeed, were heard to say, "Well, if I were on the
jury, my verdict would be, Served him right."

Still, although there was greater sympathy than before with Ned, there were few, indeed, who
doubted his guilt.

After Ned was removed from court he was taken back by the chief constable to his house, and
ten minutes later he was summoned into the parlor, where he found Charlie and Lucy waiting
him. Lucy, who was now ten years old, sprang forward to meet him; he lifted her, and for awhile
she lay with her head on his shoulder and her arms round his neck, sobbing bitterly, while
Charlie clung to his brother's disengaged hand.

"Don't cry, Lucy, don't cry little woman; it will all come right in the end;" but Lucy's tears
were not to be stanched. Ned sat down, and after a time soothed her into stillness, but she
still lay nestled up in his arms.

"It was dreadful, Ned," Charlie said, "having to go into court as a witness against you. I
had thought of running away, but did not know where to go to, and then Mr. Porson had a talk
with me and told me that it was of the greatest importance that I should tell everything exactly
word for word, just as it happened. He said every one knew there had been a quarrel, and that
if I did not tell everything it would seem as if I was keeping something back in order to screen
you, and that would do you a great deal of harm, and that, as really you were not to blame
in the quarrel, my evidence would be in your favor rather than against you. He says he knew
that you would wish me to tell exactly what took place."

"Certainly, Charlie; there is nothing I could want hid. I was wrong to speak of him as Foxey,
and to let fly as I did about him; but there was nothing intended to offend him in that, because,
of course, I had no idea that he could hear me. The only thing I have to blame myself very
much for is for getting into a wild passion. I don't think any one would say I did wrong in
going out of the house after being knocked about so; but if I had not got into a passion, and
had gone straight to Bill's, or to Abijah, or to Mr. Porson, which would have been best of
all, to have stopped the night, all this would not have come upon me; but I let myself get
into a blind passion and stopped in it for hours, and I am being punished for it."

"It was natural that you should get in a passion," Charlie said stoutly. "I think any one would
have got in a passion."

"I don't think you would, Charlie," Ned said, smiling.

"No," Charlie replied; "but then you see that is not my way. I should have cried all night;
but then I am not a great, strong fellow like you, and it would not be so hard to be knocked
about."

"It's no use making excuses, Charlie. I know I ought not to have given way to my temper like
that. Now, Lucy dear, as you are feeling better, you must sit up and talk to me. How is mother?"

"Mother is in bed," Lucy said. "She's always in bed now; the house is dreadful, Ned, without
you, and they say you are not to come back yet," and the tears came very near to overflowing again.

"Ah! well, I hope I shall be back before long, Lucy."

"I hope so," Lucy said; "but you know you will soon be going away again to be a soldier."

"I shall not go away again now, Lucy," Ned said quietly. "When I come back it will be for good."

"Oh! that will be nice," Lucy said joyously, "just as it used to be, with no one to be cross
and scold about everything."

"Hush! little woman, don't talk about that. He had his faults, dear, as we all have, but he
had a great deal to worry him, and perhaps we did not make allowances enough for him, and I
do think he was really fond of you, Lucy, and when people are dead we should never speak ill
of them."

"I don't want to," Lucy said, "and I didn't want him to be fond of me when he wasn't fond of
you and Charlie or mother. It seems to me he wasn't fond of mother, and yet she does nothing
but cry; I can't make that out, can you?"

Ned did not answer; his mother's infatuation for Mr. Mulready had always been a puzzle to him,
and he could at present think of no reply which would be satisfactory to Lucy.

A constable now came in and said that there were other visitors waiting to see Ned. He then
withdrew, leaving the lad to say goodby to his brother and sister alone. Ned kept up a brave
countenance, and strove to make the parting as easy as possible for the others, but both were
crying bitterly as they went out.

Ned's next visitors were Dr. Green and Mr. Porson.

"We have only a minute or two, my boy," Mr. Porson said, "for the gig is at the door. The chief
constable is going to drive you to York himself. You will go halfway and sleep on the road
tonight. It is very good of him, as in that way no one will suspect that you are any but a
pair of ordinary travelers. Keep up your spirits, my boy. We have sent to London for a detective
from Bow Street to try and ferret out something of this mysterious business; and even if we
do not succeed, I have every faith that it will come right in the end. And now goodby, my boy,
I shall see you in a fortnight, for of course I shall come over to York to the trial to give
evidence as to character."

"And so shall I, Ned, my patients must get on without me for a day or two," the doctor said.
"Mr. Wakefield is waiting to see you. He has something to tell you which may help to cheer
you. He says it is of no legal value, but it seems to me important."

CHAPTER XV: NOT GUILTY

As soon as Mr. Porson and the doctor had left him Mr. Wakefield appeared.

"Well, Sankey, I hope you are not downcast at the magistrates' decision. It was a certainty
that they would have to commit you, as we could not prove a satisfactory alibi. Never mind,
I don't think any jury will find against you on the evidence they have got, especially in the
face of those threatening letters and the fact that several men in Mulready's position have
been murdered by the Luddites."

"It won't be much consolation to me, sir, to be acquitted if it can't be proved to the satisfaction
of every one that I am innocent."

"Tut, tut! my boy; the first thing to do is to get you out of the hands of the law. After that
we shall have time to look about us and see if we can lay our hands on the right man. A curious
thing has happened today while I was in court. A little boy left a letter for me at my office
here; it is an ill-written scrawl, as you see, but certainly important."

Ned took the paper, on which was written in a scrawling hand:

"Sir, Maister Sankey be innocent of the murder of Foxey. I doan't want to put my neck in a
noose, but if so be as they finds him guilty in coort and be a-going to hang him, I shall come
forward and say as how I did it. I bean't agoing to let him be hung for this job. A loife for
a loife, saes oi; so tell him to keep up his heart."

There was no signature to the paper.

Ned looked up with delight in his face.

"But won't the letter clear me, Mr. Wakefield? It shows that it was not me, but some one else
who did it."

"No, Sankey, pray do not cherish any false hopes on that ground. The letter is valueless in
a legal way. To you and to your friends it may be a satisfaction; but it can have no effect
on the court. There is nothing to prove that it is genuine. It may have been written by any
friend of yours with a view of obtaining your acquittal. Of course we shall put it in at the
trial, but it cannot be accepted as legal evidence in any way. Still a thing of that sort may
have an effect upon some of the jury."

Ned looked again at the letter, and a shade came over his face now that he looked at it carefully.
He recognized in a moment Bill's handwriting. He had himself instructed him by setting him
copies at the time he was laid up with the broken leg, and Bill had stuck to it so far that
he was able to read and write in a rough way.

Ned's first impulse was to tell Mr. Wakefield who had written the note, but he thought that
it might get Bill into a scrape. It was evidently written by his friend, solely to create an
impression in his favor, and he wondered that such an idea should have entered Bill's head,
which was by no means an imaginative one. As to the young fellow having killed Mr. Mulready
it did not even occur to Ned for a moment.

As, seated by the side of the chief constable, he drove along that afternoon, Ned turned it
over anxiously in his mind whether it would be honest to allow this letter to be produced in
court, knowing that it was only the device of a friend, Finally he decided to let matters take
their course.

"I am innocent," he said to himself, "and what I have got to live for is to clear myself from
this charge. Mr. Wakefield said this letter would not be of value one way or the other, and
if I were to say Bill wrote it he might insist upon Bill's being arrested, and he might find
it just as hard to prove his innocence as I do."

The assizes were to come on in three weeks. Ned was treated with more consideration than was
generally the case with prisoners in those days, when the jails were terribly mismanaged; but
Mr. Simmonds had written to the governor of the prison asking that every indulgence that could
be granted should be shown to Ned, and Mr. Porson had also, before the lad left Marsden, insisted
on his accepting a sum of money which would enable him to purchase such food and comforts as
were permitted to be bought by prisoners, able to pay for them, awaiting their trial.

Thus Ned obtained the boon of a separate cell, he was allowed to have books and writing materials,
and to have his meals in from outside the prison.

The days, however, passed but slowly, and Ned was heartily glad when the time for the assizes
was at hand and his suspense was to come to an end. His case came on for trial on the second
day of the sessions. On the previous evening he received a visit from Mr. Wakefield, who told
him that Mr. Porson, Dr. Green and Charlie had come over in the coach with him.

"You will be glad to hear that your mother will not be called," the lawyer said. "The prosecution,
I suppose, thought that it would have a bad effect to call upon a mother to give evidence against
her son; besides, she could prove no more than your brother will be able to do. If they had
called her, Green would have given her a certificate that she was confined to her bed and could
not possibly attend. However I am glad they did not call her, for the absence of a witness
called against the prisoner, but supposed to be favorable to him, always counts against him."

"And you have no clue as who did it, Mr. Wakefield?"

"Not a shadow," the lawyer replied. "We have had a man down from town ever since you have been
away, but we have done no good. He went up to Varley and tried to get into the confidence of
the croppers, but somehow they suspected him to be a spy sent down to inquire into the Luddite
business, and he had a pretty narrow escape of his life. He was terribly knocked about before
he could get out of the public house, and they chased him all the way down into Marsden. Luckily
he was a pretty good runner, and had the advantage of having lighter shoes on than they had,
or they would have killed him to a certainty. No, my lad, we can prove nothing; we simply take
the ground that you didn't do it; that he was a threatened man and unpopular with his hands;
and there is not a shadow of proof against you except the fact that he had ill treated you
just before."

"And that I was known to bear him ill will," Ned said sadly.

"Yes, of course that's unfortunate," the lawyer said uneasily. "Of course they will make a
point of that, but that proves nothing. Most boys of your age do object to a stepfather. Of
course we shall put it to the jury that there is nothing uncommon about that. Oh! no, I do
not think they have a strong case; and Mr. Grant, who is our leader, and who is considered
the best man on the circuit, is convinced we shall get a verdict."

"But what do people think at Marsden, Mr. Wakefield? Do people generally think I am guilty?"

"Pooh! pooh!" Mr. Wakefield said hastily. "What does it matter what people think? Most people
are fools. The question we have to concern ourselves with is what do the jury think, or at
any rate with what they think is proved, and Mr. Grant says he does not believe any jury could
find you guilty upon the evidence. He will work them up. I know he is a wonderful fellow for
working up."

Mr. Grant's experience of juries turned out to be well founded. Ned, as he stood pale, but
firm and composed in the dock, felt that his case was well nigh desperate when he heard the
speech for the prosecution: his long and notorious ill will against the deceased, "one of the
most genial and popular gentlemen in that part of the great county of Yorkshire," was dwelt
upon. Evidence would be brought to show that even on the occasion of his mother's marriage
the happiness of the ceremonial was marred by the scowls and menacing appearance of this most
unfortunate and ill conditioned lad; how some time after the marriage this young fellow had
violently assaulted his stepfather, and had used words in the hearing of the servants which
could only be interpreted as a threat upon his life. This indeed, was not the first time that
this boy had been placed in the dock as a prisoner. Upon a former occasion he had been charged
with assaulting and threatening the life of his schoolmaster, and although upon that occasion
he had escaped the consequences of his conduct by what must now be considered as the ill timed
leniency of the magistrates, yet the facts were undoubted and undenied.

Then the counsel proceeded to narrate the circumstances of the evening up to the point when
Mr. Mulready left the house.

"Beyond that point, gentlemen of the jury," the counsel said, "nothing certain is known. The
rest must be mere conjecture; and yet it is not hard to imagine the facts. The prisoner was
aware that the deceased had gone to the mill, which is situated a mile and a half from the
town. You will be told the words which the prisoner used: 'It will be my turn next time, and
when it comes I will kill you, you brute.'

"With these words on his lips, with this thought in his heart, he started for the mill. What
plan he intended to adopt, what form of vengeance he intended to take, it matters not, but
assuredly it was with thoughts of vengeance in his heart that he followed that dark and lonely
road to the mill. Once there he would have hung about waiting for his victim to issue forth.
It may be that he had picked up a heavy stone, may be that he had an open knife in his hand;
but while he was waiting, probably his foot struck against a coil of rope, which, as you will
hear, had been carelessly thrown out a few minutes before.

"Then doubtless the idea of a surer method of vengeance than that of which he had before thought
came into his mind. A piece of the rope was hastily cut off, and with this the prisoner stole
quietly off until he reached the spot where two gates facing each other on opposite sides of
the lane afforded a suitable hold for the rope. Whether after fastening it across the road
he remained at the spot to watch the catastrophe which he had brought about, or whether he
hurried away into the darkness secure of his vengeance we cannot tell, nor does it matter.
You will understand, gentlemen, that we are not in a position to prove these details of the
tragedy. I am telling you the theory of the prosecution as to how it happened. Murders are
not generally done in open day with plenty of trustworthy witnesses looking on. It is seldom
that the act of slaying is witnessed by human eye. The evidence must therefore to some extent
be circumstantial. The prosecution can only lay before juries the antecedent circumstances,
show ill will and animus, and lead the jury step by step up to the point when the murderer
and the victim meet in some spot at some time when none but the all seeing eye of God is upon
them. This case is, as you see, no exception to the general rule.

"I have shown you that between the prisoner and the deceased there was what may be termed a
long standing feud, which came to a climax two or three hours before this murder. Up to that
fatal evening I think I shall show you that the prisoner was wholly in fault, and that the
deceased acted with great good temper and self command under a long series of provocations;
but upon this evening his temper appears to have failed, and I will admit frankly that he seems
to have committed a very outrageous and brutal assault upon the prisoner. Still, gentlemen,
such an assault is no justification of the crime which took place. Unhappily it supplies the
cause, but it does not supply an excuse for the crime.

"Your duty in the case will be simple. 

After he had saluted, Gonzalo went to sit by Pablito, and passing his hand familiarly over his shoulder,
whispered:

- What is your favorite?

And bending over his future brother-nailed an intense look in Venturita,
corresponding her with something very unique.

Then both the converted Cecilia.

This had not raised head of the frame.

- Snow - Paul replied without hesitation, and in the same tone of falsetto.

- I knew it, and I applaud you taste - Gonzalo laughed .-- What skin satin '... What teeth!

- And to walk! Pasi-short, you know?

Both looked to the embroidery.

This raised his head, and realizing that it was her I grimaced with his tongue.

- Come on, it does not speak in his ear - "Dona Paula with susceptibility
characterizing glassy Village women.

- Let you, ma'am - Nieves said
.-- They are talking about me: do not take away the taste.

- Of course,
Paul would make me aware of certain red lips, a certain transparency
Skin, hair ormolu ...

- Valentina, then talking about you - blushing
Nieves said playing in the thigh with his partner.

- What a joke!

Do not worry, girl. If you know you're the prettiest! - Said the other visible chopped.

- Peace, peace, ladies! - Truth .-- Gonzalo said Paul began talking
of the perfections Nieves, but it is also true that she would continue
with all other, if not would have stopped ... Is not that, Paul?

-
Of course, had to continue with Valentina ...

This raised his head
and looked at him with mocking scowl that was funny character to his
face.

- Be careful, Nieves, that these gentlemen are out of sight.

Paul, ignoring the interruption, continued:

- After Teresa and Encarnacion, Elvira and Generous. Venturita also speak (for put it, of course,
by the feet of the horses). Cecilia no, because it is committed, and some would also say my lady
Dona Paula, that, without offending anyone, is the most beautiful of all.

- What a rascal! - Said it admired the grace of his son.

Paul had risen from his chair and hugged his mother with effusion.

-
Remove, remove, flatterer! - "She laughed.

- Go loosening his pocket,
Mom - Venturita said.

- You see!

Houndstooth ever - said the young man angrily, turning her head his sister, while she laughed
maliciously without lifting his frame.

- Many have worked - Gonzalo said softly, sitting next to his girlfriend.

- So, so - Cecilia said fixing her large eyes full of light.

- A
lot, yes, yesterday I had this pink embroidery ... I say, I think
it's pink ...

- It's jasmine.

- Neither the two leaves.

- Bah!

That's nothing.

- What is it you're embroidering?

Cecilia continued to move the needle blank.

- What is it that overboard? - Gonzalo said aloud, the higher, thinking
that he had not heard.

- A sheet ... Shut up! - Said the young woman
lifting her eyes a little to the seamstresses and returning to bring
them down quickly.

At the same time, Gonzalo and Venturita stumbled over the head of Cecilia, and they came out a
spark.

- You see there for all - Pablito said while staring fixedly at Nevis
as saying: "Never mind, I say to meet."

- What is there for all,
Don Pablo? - Valentina asked with ironic twang.

- Flores, creature.

-
Écheselas you the Blessed Sacrament.

- And pretty girls like you.

-
If I'm not pretty, passing through the beautiful and did not do it
please, you know?

- Demon!

We must not approach this Valentina; rises from behind - said the
handsome young man.

The simile, though nothing cult, and perhaps for that reason, made me laugh to the seamstresses.

- Valentina does not like the gentlemen - said Encarnacion.

- You are right, the gentlemen will not take off more than parola, lost time and sometimes
unfortunately lifetime - Donà said Paula forgetting that she had taken happiness .-- Concerning
to that, Sarrió is lost. There are hardly any girl who is left to accompany one of his equal. The boy
has to bring at least a tie and fungus, and smoking has nozzle ... although it has no plate
to eat. Nothing is hidden, and to go at dusk accompanied by a gentleman, and just around the pilgrimages
to see them come da grime clinging to them takes singing high ... Poor thing! Do not know what
awaits you. For the son of Don Rudesindo married Esguila Pepe and the pilot of Mechacan Trinity,
I figure that is the whole mountain is oregano. When frying is the laugh ... Look, look at Benita
Mr. Matthias the sexton. How cute is that compuestita, right?

- Benita is notarized - Encarnacion said.

- Writing, eh? You'll see what it is worth writing!

- Lady, the groom can not leave, if you leave, go to prison for life.

- Hush, hush, goofy, how come you got those balls in your head?

- That you know ... go. Benita is consulted.

- Look, lady - said Teresa, the brunette sentimental - the truth that we are in danger; you are right
... But what do we do? The craftsmen of this village are so lying to lose! The most and the
least happens on Sunday and Monday in the tavern, and some day per week. How many are those
who bring their wages home and deliver it to his wife, tell me for his life? If a sailor, he
is seen once every year, brings four quarters, and pulled again there. The rooms are completed,
and the unfortunate woman is dragged, working to give a piece of bread to their children ...
And then what do they know of to estimate even a bit of grace women? If they go with her one
Sunday afternoon, will stop at every tavern the road, leaving, if the opportunity arises,
the poor girl at the door, or call to hear some nonsense, which puts more than a poppy red ...
Street, street, ma'am, if each mostrenco that as God will judge me, not worth the bread they
eat! ... The other day I found to Tomasina ... already know, Uncle Rufus, who does even a year married
a Prospero's official ... Well, at that moment was a real home for two of his father to buy bread,
because in all that day had not eaten a bite.

Her husband drinks most of the wage, and half weeks, of course! has the unfortunate to squeeze
the belly ... Válgate God! And most of the night comes home drunk, and gives each sopimpa that
leaves it for dead. How often will the little girl to bed without supper and fed up with sticks! ...
Then they want that, seeing these things ... Oops, better shut up! What I say is, wow! and
to take her to the devil to take her car.

- Hey you - jumped Valentina lifted his face with his usual frown
more pronounced - no look so boastful.

Say you like gentlemen, well ... I did not get into that, but removing the credit do not come to
raptors your equal ... They get drunk, those who get drunk ... More than a gentleman and more
than two I've seen goats come as home ... And beat their women, even
those who stick ... If they do not have the long tongue, do not carry
the half the time ... Serves, and Don Ramon, the music teacher when
she came home for "biscuits night was his wife?

What you should know ... lived very close.

- My dear, I do not speak for everyone - said Teresa subsiding by the fear that his wayward partner
deliver him to light the night accompanying Donato Red, Medical Health,
- only I say that there is gross ...

- Well, let them alone and do
not remember them, they do not remember you.

Each is each, and the most and the least know where the water flows from the mill.

- Listen, Valentina - Elvira said grinning - when you marry, do you
think carry Cosme?

- If deserve the take ... More want to take a
couple times in my contempt Cosme a gentleman, rising!

- I like that,
learn, learn, little girls! - Pablito said.

Gonzalo, after a moment of whispered conversation with his girlfriend, got up, took three or four
laps around the room, and sat down beside Venturita, with whom I
used to have revelry.

Both liked to tease and frolic after the trust was born. The girl I was drawing some letters for embroidery.

-
Do not come to mock, Gonzalo.

We know that bad drawing - said stabbing a provocative look, bolt, forcing the young to lower
theirs.

- It is true that, do not draw wrong - he said softly, shaking slightly,
bringing face to the role Venturita her lap.

- Pure gallantry.

Will agree that it could be better.

- Best ... more ... everything can be better in the world.

It's pretty good.

- You'll make very flattering. I do not want to laugh at me, do you hear?

- Oh! I laugh at anyone ... but much less than you ...-- he said without looking up paper, his voice
growing low and visibly shaken.

Venturita was always staring at him with a malicious expression, which clearly read the triumph
of satisfied pride.

- Come on, you draw them, Mr. Engineer - said handing him the paper with funny despotism and
pencil.

The young man took them and dared to look up at the girl, but then lowered it as if afraid
electrocuted.

He planted the book, which she had in her lap, on his knees, applied
over white paper, and began to draw.

But instead of letters, began to draw with ease the head of a woman. First the hair parted
into two braids, then the forehead and beautiful, then a delicate
nose, small mouth, his beard trimmed admirably united to the throat
by a smooth curve and elegant ... Venturita seemed prodigiously.

This, resting on the shoulder of his future brother, followed the movements of the pen. Slowly
it expanded a smile on his face vain. After outlining the head, Gonzalo
continued with the bust.

He put the hairdresser or the girl wearing matinee, and entertained
good while carefully drawing silk ties that are holding ahead.

When portrait was finished. Venturita accent told picaresque:

- Now, who is put under.

The young man raised his head and smiling eyes clashed. Then, with brilliance and decision wrote
under the picture: What I love most in the world.

Venturita took the paper in his hands and stared for a moment with
pleasure.

Then with a grimace of disdain handed it back saying:

- Take, take, liar.

But before reaching the hands of Gonzalo, Cecilia extended his and
snatched him laughing.

- What are those pieces of paper?

Venturita, as if it had a flat tire, jumped on the seat and held her
wrist tightly of his sister.

- Give, give, Cecilia!

Stop it! - Said breathing fire with his face, made by forced smile.

- No, I see it.

- You'll see later, go!

- I see it now.

- Come on, girl, Leave it to see. What do you care? - Said Dona Paula.

- I do not want anyone to force it off - cried becoming serious.

Then, realizing the recklessness of this, turned to be cheerful.

- Come on, Cecilia, loose, do not be evil.

- What a commitment! Drops you who hurt me!

- Who are you to take my hand paper? - Uttered in anger, turning this
time really serious .-- Loose, loose, ugly parrot noses, silly!

... Let go, or I scratch you! - Added with flashing eyes and the
face broken by anger.

Seeing her in that way, the laughter that shook his chest suddenly paralizóse Cecilia, and opening
her large eyes which was painted surprise, exclaimed:

- Jesus!

You look crazy, girl. Take, take, will not give you something.

And dropped the crumpled piece of paper that in the fist.

Venturita have altered the face, he did a thousand pieces.

- In the days of my life have I seen a wild creature! - Crossing himself
exclaimed Dona Paulina Ave .-- Mary!

Ave Maria! Who did you get that genie, girl?

- Would you - plastered Venturita said, without looking at anyone.

-
Shameless!

... If not there are people looking forward! ... How do you answer that So your mother, naughty?
Do not you know the commandments of God's law?

Tomorrow I will Don Aquilino to confess.

- Well, give reports to Don Aquilino.

- Wait, wait, very great rascal! - Called Mrs. doing started to rise
to punish her daughter.

But at that moment appeared at the door of Don Rosendo with multicolored robe velvet hat with silk
tassel.

- What? - Asked amazed watching his wife's angry attitude.

This will put the current, choked with sobs, the lack of respect for his daughter.

Don Rosendo was believed in the case of frown, and say solemnly:

- That's wrong, Ventura. Go to apologize to your mom.

He knew he was distracted, absorbed in some thought, and that domestic
incident could not wring more than half of their concern.

However, to see the girl still in haughty and dismissive, he said again, more firmly

- Come, daughter, go to ask for forgiveness, because you have offended.

The girl made his peculiar grimace of contempt in his lips, and whispered softly:

- Yes, that's what I'm thinking!

- Go, Ventura, what muttering there? Go, before I get angry.

- Go, go, Venturita. Go there. Do not be so - he said under his seamstresses.

- I do not want. Will you leave me alone? - She answered quietly, too, but with angry tone.

- Do not want to go? - Asked Don Rosendo with severely affected .-- Do not you want to go?

The girl stood motionless and silent.

- Then get out of here now! Get out of my sight!

Venturita rose from his chair, went through the middle of the upright
and sulking competition, and went the room making a big bang.

Don Rosendo, after remaining motionless for a moment with eyes fixed on the door where his
daughter had gone, he turned, saying:

- I'm sorry to be so strong with my daughters ... but sometimes no choice.

VII

THAT IS OF TWO TRAITORS

Sudden blurred pseudomarítima his noble face the fearful expression that darkened and appeared
distracted again that another sign of constant meditation.

- Gonzalo, if you do not mind, I ask you to pierce me at the office - said addressing to his future
son.

This, that during the previous scene was pale and returned to his being repeatedly turned at
confusing. Nothing less struck him that Rosendo was unaware of the instability their feelings
of love, and I would ask it close consideration. Was, therefore, behind his head bowed and
suspicious, and entered the desktop. It was a spacious room, furnished with rich merchant class:
large solid mahogany table, mahogany cabinets, too, where there bundles
of papers more than books, velvet carpet, couches lined with brocade,
and massive silver inkstand as a monument.

About a quarter of this camera ocupábalo a lot of packets wrapped in several colors, to whoever
first Once entered into it, would be a mystery. Gonzalo was not for or to any of the intimate
of the house. Those packages kept toothpicks.

How? - Ask the reader .-- Don Rosendo Belinchón, a dealer in both stem, traded also on toothpicks?
No, Don Rosendo not traded with them, make them. And this not to speculate, unworthy of its
kind, but pure and selfless inclination of his spirit. From a very
young man had told him.

The regulars trade occupations and the vicissitudes through which he passed his existence, had
not consented to meet this passion but in a materially poor at times lost. But since she could leave
the desktop to some of the faithful entrusted dependent entregóse full heart and soul a distraction
so helpful and honest. In the morning at the store Graells, in the afternoon Saloncillo in the
evening at home or in the Don Pedro Miranda, always working. His servant occupied much of the day in
court a few blocks of dry hazel perfectly equal, where his right hand had to take the show
of the sticks.

And was not about to rest, even on holidays, production was excessive. There were not enough consumers
in the village, and saw packages needed to recall them friends of the capital, when the pile
reached the ceiling clearance. Thanks to the efforts noblest of the clear representative of their
trade, we can proudly say that Sarrio in this interesting field of
progress, was at the height of the big cities.

No other Spanish town or foreign competition could suffer with it. Home of the rich, as in the artisan,
never missing a well-stocked toothpick, undisputed testimony the refined culture of its inhabitants.

Rosendo
said a couch to his son in infancy, and he was frightened and let himself fall into it sinking
deeply. After the trader approached a chair with an air of mystery, and sitting front of the
young and looking between smiling and embarrassed, he said, giving the same time a pat on the
thigh

- Let's see, Gonzalito: how about the issue of slaughter?

- Is the slaughter? - Said it opened his eyes wide as fists.

- Yes, the new slaughterhouse, do you think should be placed in the dump, or on the beach of Meanas
behind the houses of Don Rudesindo?

Gonzalo saw heaven opened, and,
smiling with pleasure, he replied:

- I believe that the Meanas beach
would be nice ... Very open that ... well ventilated ...

But noting
that his father's forehead was wrinkled, and her eyes suddenly subsided
smile, said stammering:

- Nor do I think it would be wrong with the
spring ...

- Much better, Gonzalo ... Infinitely better!

- Can,
can.

- Man, so it may be, I will tell you privately that the location
on the beach I judge (Please save me the reservation on this opinion),
I judge ... a veritable folly ... u-na do-da-de-ra in-sen-sa-skinned
- all the best pointing repeated syllables.

- And this opinion of
mine - he said - do not go to refiguring it yesterday morning, but
throughout life. Since I was able to understand certain things, I
realized that the slaughterhouse would not be where is today. In a
word, that should be moved. Where? An inner voice always told me that
the dump. Before you can give any scientific reason, I was as convinced
as that there was now located, and not elsewhere. Now that the resolution
of the problem approaches, I think I have to hold this view, to communicate
my thoughts to the people and the result of my musings. If you do
not have to do I will read your letter I am writing Progress on this
occasion the Lancia. 

And indeed, without waiting for the answer
to Gonzalo, he went to the table, picked up a specification paper
that was on it, put on his glasses, and stood on the balcony gave
beginning, not without some emotion that is reflected by the voice,
reading the letter.

Commercial paper was written in large, striped.
All that for years led the Advancement of Lancia and other newspapers
in the capital of the province, were written in the same role on both
sides. Although he did not know that the press was written by a only.
But soon acquired this precious knowledge, as we shall see.

Almost
simultaneously with that of toothpicks Rosendo was born in Belinchón
the fans to write press releases to newspapers: that is, dating from
a remote antiquity. Ardent supporter of human progress, reforms at
all levels, from the discussion and light, it is clear that the press
had to command respect and enthusiasm. Newspapers had always been
an essential element of their existence. He was signed to many national
and foreign, because, as taught to trade, was well acquainted with
French and English and had never missed, even in the busiest days,
a couple of hours to spend to read. These times are significantly
increased for some years, but not that it would suffer by cod. The
enjoyment that our hero felt in the morning after taking the chocolate
swallowing the substantive articles of the national flag, the Loose
Politics and the Nouvelles à la main of Figaro was so vivid, it was
printed long in the face until the radiation was being lost in the
atmosphere.

Like all men of broad and lofty view, it was not exclusive
in their tastes newspaper. He loved the daily newspaper, as a kind
shows the progress of human reason or as he put it best, "a demonstration
raised public awareness." Opinions which each defended, were a secondary.
I was subscribed to newspapers in all colors, and equally enjoyed.
If you showed any predilection, it was only for the items loose meaning.
Because that's saying one thing and pretending to express the opposite
twist phrases so that a clause carry innocent appearance in a "poisoned
arrow" was in awe of Don Rosendo and drove him crazy with joy. Read
many times The Spain one paragraph with the style: - "Yesterday it
was finally the circular of the President Supreme of their subordinates.
Congratulations to General O'Donnell, president of this situation
liberal, Mr. Negrete, who has given a lucid moment atop a colossal
work, and Democrat protection of this Government "- had exclaimed
waving a newspaper in his hands: - What intention! Caracoles! What
intention! Ned's two friends had followed him in, and tears
stood in both their eyes.

"Welcome back, dear boy!" Mr. Porson said, grasping his hand. "God grant that better times
are in store for you, and that you may outlive this trial which has at present darkened your
life. Now we will leave you to your brother and sister. I am sure you will be glad to be alone
with them."

And so Ned took to the life he had marked out for himself. In two months he seemed to have
aged years. The careless look of boyhood had altogether disappeared from his face. Except from
his two friends he rejected all sympathy. When he walked through the streets of Marsden it
was with a cold, stony face, as if he were wholly unaware of the existence of passersby. The
thought that as he went along men drew aside to let him pass and whispered after he had gone,
"That is the fellow who murdered his stepfather, but escaped because they could not bring it
home to him," was ever in his mind. His friends in vain argued with him against his thus shutting
himself off from the world. They assured him that there were very many who, like themselves,
were perfectly convinced of his innocence, and who would rally round him and support him if
he would give them the least encouragement, but Ned shook his head.

"I dare say what you say is true," he would reply; "but I could not do it--I must go on alone.
It is as much as I can bear now."

And his friends saw that it was useless to urge him further.

On the day after his return to Marsden Luke Marner and Bill Swinton came back on the coach
from York, and after it was dark Ned walked up to Varley and knocked at Bill's door.

On hearing who it was Bill threw on his cap and came out to him. For a minute the lads stood
with their hands clasped firmly in each other's without a word being spoken.

"Thank God, Maister Ned," Bill said at last, "we ha' got thee again!"

"Thank God too!" Ned said; "though I think I would rather that it had gone the other way."

They walked along for some time without speaking again, and then Ned said suddenly:

"Now, Bill, who is the real murderer?"

Bill stopped his walk in astonishment.

"The real murderer!" he repeated; "how ever should oi know, Maister Ned?"

"I know that you know, Bill. It was you who wrote that letter to Mr. Wakefield saying that
the man who did it would be at the trial, and that if I were found guilty he would give himself
up. It's no use your denying it, for I knew your handwriting at once."

Bill was silent for some time, It had never occurred to him that this letter would be brought
home to him.

"Come, Bill, you must tell me," Ned said. "Do not be afraid. I promise you that I will not
use it against him. Mind, if I can bring it home to him in any other way I shall do so; but
I promise you that no word shall ever pass my lips about the letter. I want to know who is
the man of whose crime the world believes me guilty. The secret shall, as far as he is concerned,
be just as much a secret as it was before."

"But oi dunno who is the man, Maister Ned. If oi did oi would ha' gone into the court and said
so, even though oi had been sure they would ha' killed me for peaching when oi came back. Oi
dunno no more than a child."

"Then you only wrote that letter to throw them on to a false scent, Bill? Who put you up to
that, for I am sure it would never have occurred to you?"

"No," Bill said slowly, "oi should never ha' thought of it myself; Luke told oi what to wroit,
and I wroited it."

"Oh, it was Luke! was it?" Ned said sharply. "Then the man who did it must have told him."

"Oi didn't mean to let out as it waar Luke," Bill said in confusion; "and oi promised him solemn
to say nowt about it."

"Well," Ned said, turning sharp round and starting on his way back to the village, "I must
see Luke himself."

Bill in great perplexity followed Ned, muttering: "Oh, Lor'! what ull Luke say to oi? What
a fellow oi be to talk, to be sure!"

Nothing further was said until they reached Luke's cottage. Ned knocked and entered at once,
followed sheepishly by Bill.

"Maister Ned, oi be main glad to see thee," Luke said as he rose from his place by the fire;
while Polly with a little cry, "Welcome!" dropped her work.

"Thanks, Luke--thanks for coming over to York to give evidence. How are you, Polly? There!
don't cry--I ain't worth crying over. At any rate, it is a satisfaction to be with three people
who don't regard me as a murderer. Now, Polly, I want you to go into the other room, for I
have a question which I must ask Luke, and I don't want even you to hear the answer."

Polly gathered her work together and went out. Then Ned went over to Luke, who was looking
at him with surprise, and laid his hand on his shoulder.

"Luke," he said, "I want you to tell me exactly how it was that you came to tell Bill to write
that letter to Mr. Wakefield?"

Luke started and then looked savagely over at Bill, who stood twirling his cap in his hand.

"Oi couldn't help it, Luke," he said humbly. "Oi didn't mean vor to say it, but he got it out
of me somehow. He knowed my fist on the paper, and, says he, sudden loike, 'Who war the man
as murdered Foxey?' What was oi vor to say? He says at once as he knowed the idea of writing
that letter would never ha' coom into my head; and so the long and short of it be, as your
name slipped owt somehow, and there you be."

"Now, Luke," Ned said soothingly, "I want to know whether there was a man who was ready to
take my place in the dock had I been found guilty, and if so, who he was. I shall keep the
name as a secret. I give you my word of honor. After he had promised to come forward and save
my life that is the least I can do, though, as I told Bill, if I could bring it home to him
in any other way I should feel myself justified in doing so. It may be that he would be willing
to go across the seas, and when he is safe there to write home saying that he did it."

"Yes, oi was afraid that soom sich thawt might be in your moind, Maister Ned, but it can't
be done that way. But oi doan't know," he said thoughtfully, "perhaps it moight, arter all.
Perhaps the chap as was a-coomin' forward moight take it into his head to go to Ameriky. Oi
shouldn't wonder if he did, In fact, now oi thinks on't, oi am pretty sure as he will. Yes.
Oi can say for sartin as that's what he intends. A loife vor a loife you know, Maister Nod,
that be only fair, bean't it?"

"And you think he will really go?" Ned asked eagerly.

"Ay, he will go," Luke said firmly, "it's as good as done; but," he added slowly, "I dunno
as he's got money vor to pay his passage wi'. There's some kids as have to go wi' him. He would
want no more nor just the fare. But oi doan't see how he can go till he has laid that by, and
in these hard toimes it ull take him some time to do that."

"I will provide the money," Ned said eagerly. "Abijah would lend me some of her savings, and
I can pay her back some day."

"Very well, Maister Ned. Oi expect as how he will take it as a loan. Moind, he will pay it
hack if he lives, honest. Oi doan't think as how he bain't honest, that chap, though he did
kill Foxey. Very well," Luke went on slowly, "then the matter be as good as settled. Oi will
send Bill down tomorrow, and he will see if thou canst let un have the money. A loife vor a
loife, that's what oi says, Maister Ned. That be roight, bain't it?"

"That's right enough, Luke," Ned replied, "though I don't quite see what that has to do with
it, except that the man who has taken this life should give his life to make amends."

"Yes, that be it, in course," Luke replied. "Yes; just as you says, he ought vor to give his
loife to make amends."

That night Ned arranged with Abijah, who was delighted to hand over her savings for the furtherance
of any plan that would tend to clear Ned from the suspicion which hung over him. Bill came
down next morning, and was told that a hundred pounds would be forthcoming in two days.

Upon the following evening the servant came in and told Ned that a young woman wished to speak
to him. He went down into the study, and, to his surprise, Mary Powlett was shown in. Her eyes
were swollen with crying.

"Master Ned," she said, "I have come to say goodby."

"Good-by, Polly! Why, where are you going?"

"We are all going away, sir, tomorrow across the seas, to Ameriky I believe. It's all come
so sudden it seems like a dream, Feyther never spoke of such a thing afore, and now all at
once we have got to start. I have run all the way down from Varley to say goodby. Feyther told
me that I wasn't on no account to come down to you. Not on no account, he said. But how could
I go away and know that you had thought us so strange and ungrateful as to go away without
saying goodby after your dear feyther giving his life for little Jenny. I couldn't do it, sir.
So when he started off to spend the evening for the last time at the 'Cow' I put on my bonnet
and ran down here. I don't care if he beats me--not that he ever did beat sir, but he might
now--for he was terrible stern in telling me as I wasn't to come and see you."

Ned heard her without an interruption. The truth flashed across his mind. It was Luke Marner
himself who was going to America, and was going to write home to clear him. Yet surely Luke
could never have done it--Luke, so different from the majority of the croppers--Luke, who had
steadily refused to have anything to say to General Lud and his schemes against the masters.
Mary's last words gave him a clue to the mystery--"Your dear feyther gave his life for little
Jenny." He coupled it with Luke's enigmatical words, "A loife for a loife."

For a minute or two he sat absolutely silent. Mary was hurt at the seeming indifference with
which he received the news. She drew herself up a little, and said, in an altered voice,

"I will say goodby, sir. I hope you won't think I was taking a liberty in thinking you would
be sorry if we were all to go without your knowing it."

Ned roused himself at her words.

"It is not that, Polly. It is far from being that. But I want to ask you a question. You remember
the night of Mr. Mulready's murder? Do you remember whether your father was at home all that
evening?"

Polly opened her eyes in surprise at a question which seemed to her so irrelevant to the matter
in hand;

"Yes, sir," she replied, still coldly. "I remember that night. We are not likely any of us
to forget it. Feyther had not gone to the 'Cow.' He sat smoking at home. Bill had dropped in,
and they sat talking of the doings of the Luddites till it was later than usual. Feyther was
sorry afterward, because he said if he had been down at the 'Cow' he might have noticed by
the talk if any one had an idea that anything was going to take place."

"Then he didn't go out at all that night, Polly?"

"No, sir, not at all that night; and now, sir, I will say goodby."

"No, Polly, you won't, for I shall go back with you, and I don't think that you will go to
America."

"I don't understand," the girl faltered.

"No, Polly, I don't suppose you do; and I have not understood till now. You will see when you
get back."

"If you please," Mary said hesitatingly, "I would rather that you would not be there when feyther
comes back. Of course I shall tell him that I have been down to see you, and I know he will
be very angry."

"I think I shall be able to put that straight. I can't let your father go. God knows I have
few enough true friends, and I cannot spare him and you; and as for Bill Swinton, he would
break his heart if you went."

"Bill's only a boy; he will get over it," Polly said in a careless tone, but with a bright
flush upon her cheek.

"He is nearly as old as you are, Polly, and he is one of the best fellows in the world. I know
he's not your equal in education, but a steadier, better fellow, never was."

Mary made no reply, and in another minute the two set out together for Varley. In spite of
Ned's confident assurance that he would appease Luke's anger, Mary was frightened when, as
they entered the cottage, she saw Luke standing moodily in front of the fire.

"Oi expected this," he said in a tone of deep bitterness. "Oi were a fool vor to think as you
war different to other gals, and that you would give up your own wishes to your feyther's."

"Oh, feyther!" Polly cried, "don't speak so to me. Beat me if you like, I deserve to be beaten,
but don't speak to me like that. I am ready to go anywhere you like, and to be a good daughter
to you; forgive me for this once disobeying you."

"Luke, old friend," Ned said earnestly, putting his hand on the cropper's shoulder, "don't
be angry with Polly, she has done me a great service. I have learned the truth, and know what
you meant now by a life for a life. You were going to sacrifice yourself for me. You were going
to take upon yourself a crime which you never committed to clear me. You went to York to declare
yourself the murderer of Mulready, in case I had been found guilty. You were going to emigrate
to America to send home a written confession."

"Who says as how oi didn't kill Foxey?" Luke said doggedly. "If oi choose to give myself oop
now who is to gainsay me?"

"Mary and Bill can both gainsay you," Ned said. "They can prove that you did not stir out of
the house that night. Come, Luke, it's of no use. I feel with all my heart grateful to you
for the sacrifice you were willing to make for me. I thank you as deeply and as heartily as
if you had made it. It was a grand act of self sacrifice, and you must not be vexed with Polly
that she has prevented you carrying it out. It would have made me very unhappy had she not
done so. When I found that you were gone I should certainly have got out from Bill the truth
of the matter, and when your confession came home I should have been in a position to prove
that you had only made it to screen me. Besides, I cannot spare you. I have few friends, and
I should be badly off indeed if the one who has proved himself the truest and best were to
leave me. I am going to carry on the mill, and I must have your help. I have relied upon you
to stand by me, and you must be the foreman of your department. Come, Luke, you must say you
forgive Polly for opening my eyes just a little sooner than they would otherwise have been
to the sacrifice you wanted to make for me."

Luke, who was sorely shaken by Mary's pitiful sobs, could resist no longer, but opened his
arms, and the girl ran into them.

"There, there," he said, "don't ee go on a crying, girl; thou hasn't done no wrong, vor indeed
it must have seemed to thee flying in the face of natur to go away wi' out saying goodby to
Maister Ned. Well, sir, oi be main sorry as it has turned out so. Oi should ha' loiked to ha'
cleared thee; but if thou won't have it oi caan't help it. Oi think thou beest wrong, but thou
know'st best."

"Never mind, Luke, I shall be cleared in time, I trust," Ned said. "I am going down to the
mill tomorrow for the first time, and shall see you there. You have done me good, Luke. It
is well, indeed, for a man to know that he has such a friend as you have proved yourself to be."

CHAPTER XVII: A LONELY LIFE

The machinery had not started since the death of Mr. Mulready, the foreman having received
several letters threatening his life if he ventured to use the new machinery; and the works
had therefore been carried on on their old basis until something was settled as to their future
management.

The first few days after his return Ned spent his time in going carefully through the books
with the clerk, and in making himself thoroughly acquainted with the financial part of the
business. He was assisted by Mr. Porson, who came every evening to the house, and went through
the accounts with him. The foreman and the men in charge of the different rooms were asked
to give their opinion as to whether it was possible to reduce expenses in any way, but they
were unanimous in saying that this could not be done. The pay was at present lower than in
any other mill in the district, and every item of expenditure had been kept down by Mr. Mulready
to the lowest point.

"It is clear," Ned said at last, "that if the mill is to be kept on we must use the new machinery.
I was afraid it would be so, or he would never have taken to it and risked his life unless
it had been absolutely necessary. I don't like it, for I have strong sympathies with the men,
and although I am sure that in the long run the hands will benefit by the increased trade,
it certainly cause great suffering at present, so if it had been possible I would gladly have
let the new machinery stand idle until the feeling against it had passed away; but as I see
that the mill has been running at a loss ever since prices fell, it is quite clear that we
must use it at once."

The next morning Ned called the foreman into his office at the mill, and told him that he had
determined to set the new machinery at work at once.

"I am sorry to be obliged to do so," he said, "as it will considerably reduce the number of
hands at work; but it cannot be helped, it is either that or stopping altogether, which would
be worse still for the men. Be as careful as you can in turning off the hands, and as far as
possible retain all the married men with families. The only exception to that rule is young
Swinton, who is to be kept on whoever goes."

That evening Luke Marner called at the house to see Ned.

"Be it true, Maister Ned, as the voreman says, the new machines is to be put to work?"

"It is true, Luke, I am sorry to say. I would have avoided it if possible; but I have gone
into the matter with Mr. Porson, and I find I must either do that or shut up the mill altogether,
which would be a good deal worse for you all. Handwork cannot compete with machinery, and the
new machines will face a dozen yards of cloth while a cropper is doing one, and will do it
much better and more evenly."

"That be so, surely, and it bain't no use my saying as it ain't, and it's true enough what
you says, that it's better half the hands should be busy than none; but those as gets the sack
won't see it, and oi fears there will be mischief. Oi don't hold with the Luddites, but oi
tell ye the men be getting desperate, and oi be main sure as there will be trouble afore long.
Your loife won't be safe, Maister Ned."

"I don't hold much to my life," Ned laughed bitterly, "so the Luddites won't be able to frighten
me there."

"I suppose thou wilt have some of the hands to sleep at the mill, as they do at some of the
other places. If thou wilt get arms those as is at work will do their best to defend it. Cartwright
has got a dozen or more sleeping in his mill."

"I will see about it," Ned said, "but I don't think I shall do that. I don't want any men to
get killed in defending our property."

"Then they will burn it, thou wilt see if they doan't," Luke said earnestly.

"I hope not, Luke. I shall do my best to prevent it anyhow."

"Oi will give ee warning if a whisper of it gets to moi ears, you may be sure, but the young
uns doan't say much to us old hands, who be mostly agin them, and ov course they will say less
now if oi be one of those kept on."

"We must chance it, Luke; but be sure, whatever I do I shan't let the mill be destroyed if
I can help it."

And so on the Monday following the waterwheel was set going and the new machinery began to
work. The number of hands at the mill was reduced by nearly one half, while the amount of cloth
turned out each week was quadrupled.

The machinery had all the latest improvements, and was excellently arranged. Mr. Mulready had
thoroughly understood his business, and Ned soon saw that the profits under the new system
of working would be fully as great as his stepfather had calculated.

A very short time elapsed before threatening letters began to come in. Ned paid no heed to
them, but quietly went on his way. The danger was, however, undoubted. The attitude of the
Luddites had become more openly threatening. Throughout the whole of the West Riding open drilling
was carried on.

The mills at Marsden, Woodbottom, and Ottewells were all threatened. In answer to the appeals
of the mill owners the number of troops in the district was largely increased. Infantry were
stationed in Marsden, and the 10th King's Bays, the 15th Hussars, and the Scots Greys were
alternately billeted in the place. The roads to Ottewells, Woodbottom, and Lugards Mill were
patrolled regularly, and the whole country was excited and alarmed by constant rumors of attacks
upon the mills.

Ned went on his way quietly, asking for no special protection for his mill or person, seemingly
indifferent to the excitement which prevailed. Except to the workmen in the mill, to the doctor,
and Mr. Porson he seldom exchanged a word with any one during the day.

Mr. Simmonds and several of his father's old friends had on his return made advances toward
him, but he had resolutely declined to meet them. Mr. Porson and the doctor had remonstrated
with him.

"It is no use," he replied. "They congratulated me on my acquittal, but I can tell by their
tones that there is not one of them who thoroughly believes in his heart that I am innocent."

The only exception which Ned made was Mr. Cartwright, a mill owner at Liversedge. He had been
slightly acquainted with Captain Sankey; and one day soon after Ned's return as he was walking
along the street oblivious, as usual, of every one passing, Mr. Cartwright came up and placing
himself in front of him, said heartily:

"I congratulate you with all my heart, Sankey, on your escape from this rascally business.
I knew that your innocence would be proved: I would have staked my life that your father's
son never had any hand in such a black affair as this. I am heartily glad!"

There was no withstanding the frank cordiality of the Yorkshireman's manner. Ned's reserve
melted at once before it.

"Thank you very much," he said, returning the grasp of his hand; "but I am afraid that though
I was acquitted my innocence wasn't proved, and never will be. You may think me innocent, but
you will find but half a dozen people in Marsden to agree with you."

"Pooh! pooh!" Mr. Cartwright said. "You must not look at things in that light. Each bank of sand covered saw skimmers, gulls and Caprimulgus, which
nest on the beaches, simply by depositing their eggs on the sand.

Slowly the days succeeded each by frequent stops to my rowers, the that in spite of the influence
that I had come to take upon them, often jumping to the ground, not wanting to obey, to chase through
the woods, and flocks of turkeys the mountain, and the boar, and a troop of large Marimon, who
understand the damage Agen our meeting seemed to go merrily jumping over the trees, until a EXPERIENCE
late and painful taught to distrust the man.

Meanwhile, the banks were constantly encouraged by all sorts of wild animals, that came out
of the woods to frolic on the beach or on the trees of the hillsides. Very Often a large beast,
suddenly surprised with our arrival, he would abruptly in flight, sometimes a capybara, sliding
with alacrity to the gorge, was hiding in the water further, a deer asleep, waking up early,
ran about among the forest from time to time turning his head to examine it again. Occasionally
also heard at the distance the roar of the tiger.

After several days of walking through the deep stream, but not very fast Securi river, we reached
the confluence of the rivers that Yuracares Yaniyuta call, which came down from the this,
is to give more expansion to Securi. The abundance of food that had reigned until Then, thanks
to the good fishing and hunting, was leaving us little by little, as the forest was becoming
more deserted, and on the other hand, the powder that I had altered without moisture doubt,
had as useless, for so soon after the lack of game we reduced the salt fish without any food,
and later to a few ears of corn that Yuracares provided us, and to
the palms that could shoot down my Indians.

Along the way, and the monotony of the voyage were beginning to get discouraged when August
8, at about eleven o'clock, we finally arrived at the confluence of a river low in the west,
and is much more significant that the Securi. The Yuracaré give the name of Isiboro, and according
to the saying of those who accompanied me, this mighty stream, consisting of Isiboro rivers,
Chipiriri Samucebeté and receives all the waters of the eastern slope of Iterama chain or the
Paracti, between the river San-Mateo, and the river Yaniyuta, ahead of which we had spent three
days earlier.

Seeing as that the river and tomba Securi an expansion equal to that which I had noticed at the point
of its junction with the Mamore, recovered mood, hoping to arrive soon to meet this river.

The next day quietly slid our canoe manned by between forest islands, when presented derrepente,
perched on a tree bank, the most beautiful, the most corpulent the most noble of all birds of
prey, a real harpy [1], which raised its beautiful crest, watching closely without seeming anxious
of our presence. Unable to use of my gun for lack of good powder, left to the skill of my Yuracares,
who jumped immediately to the ground, capturing the glory of that proud animal. One of them assertion
certainly a crush: in spite of this blow, fell at the bird fly, but pregnant with the arrow
had stuck, (which was about two yards long) soon fell into the forest where the follow my hunter.
I rejoiced because the idea of ​​being able to carry to France this rare prey, when I return
to my Indians bringing the bird with the tail and wings entirely plucked, and the body almost bare.
The estimated Yuracares much the feathers of this bird, and to pawn his arrows, and to adorn
the gala days [2]; so that no time had taken possession of them, leaving my hopes mocked. After
having fought harshly for this behavior, I ordered the animal Trageser, we thought dead, and
seated in the canoe put it before me. Stunned only he had received blows to the head, he came to
himself, little by little without being apercibiésemos this, and when I least expected it,
he threw himself on me, making me one stroke eight wounds with their huge claws, one of which, more
than three inches long, I went through the arm from side to side, between the cubitus and radius,
rending one tendon. A screaming that I gave, my colleagues went voyage, and succeeded with great
difficulty to take off off the furious animal. Bathed in blood and no medicines to cure my
wounds, my state it was still dangerous. Meanwhile, heat continuously esponse of the day or
at the harmful dampness of the night, the fever took hold of me soon. On the other hand fear that
attacked me a fright, and doubt whether it would be damaged due to adhesion the skin to the
tendon, greatly increased my sufferings. Thanks to the Providence only positive that I was
wrong all this, was the inability to turn my arm for some time.

On the evening of that day we reached the confluence of the river Sinuta, last western tributary the
Securi. Leaving this point, we still have two more days, and my concerns and played at its
height, when finally presented Mamore river, unfolding before our eyes all his greatness. Immediately
I gave to forget my sufferings, for I was in Moxos, white of my labors, and the next day, after
having rowed all night vogando downstream, landed in Trinidad, capital of the province.

Having made the plane on this route, was clearly, as I expected, the new transit practiced by
me was much shorter, and not as dangerous as the Avocado-Cave.

Moxos Road to Santa Cruz de la Sierra on the Rio Grande and the Rio Piray.

To aim of Loreto, last inhabited point Moxos province, towards Santa-Cruz de la Sierra, you
need to do first, like to go to Cochabamba, a transit three days until the confluence of the rivers
Sara and Mamore. It follows then by the first these rivers, which is none other than the Rio Grande
which numbres change momentarily at the confluence Piray River to the point of their reunion
with the Mamore. Its waters are a contrast rogizas with the crystal of the latter: at rest,
the banks of the river will be present, although lowlands with less, quite the same light; for they
are covered as so that the Mamore Forest varied by the diversity of trees that are composed and
among which the palms palm fronds. Only in the dry season are found to high steep banks of this stream,
meanwhile, the line reached the level to which flood is always marked on the trunks of the trees
near, like unto a rod height from his foot.

At the end of the fifth day, shows the confluence of the creek, called Maraven, which down
the left from the flood plain. On the morning of the sixth day passed the confluence of the
river Ibaba sources are found in beef, in Pampa Grande and Vilches, points to the mountains of
the province of Valle Grande. This current consists of Yapacani Surutú rivers and takes the name
of Ibaba when winding down to the plain, being navigable to the foot of the mountains. After
a day of sailing on the river Sara you get to the confluence of the river Piray. In time the
Jesuits were raised by the river Sara or Rio Grande to the hamlet of payload, located east of Santa
Cruz, but this path, forcing the travelers to give a considerable return, while being not a
little dangerous increasing time because of the floods that completely hide the riverbed of the
river, has been abandoned, will make about fifty years to go but well for the Piray which, but
much more narrow than the Rio Grande, is less prone to devastating floods; reason I prefer it
even in spite of the leaps that often take time to dry. It is likely that when the flimsy canoes
are replaced by steamships, will become to take the Rio Grande, leaving the Piray, less convient
for navigation of large vessels.

In the seventh and eighth days of the journey is the Piray up with a lot of work if the station
is dry, the riverbed of the river, deep enough, of course, is at intervals obstructed by trees
that crowd flows, or by standing at the bottom piers the river, against the often encountered canoes
causing not a few disasters. On the space that is covered in these two days are also some
bridges built by the savages Sirionos [1], who dwell in the surrounding forests, without ever
disturb Moxos natives. To arrive at the eleventh day must be saved on many rapids, formed by
a kind of breaks amarilleja hardened clay, this requires considerable time to lose the need is
to download the canoes so them up in the middle of the stream, pulling them with ropes. Executing
this maneuver, some of the Indians with precision to walk between the water, are often severely
hurt by the sharp sting of armed stripes [2]. These fish are in the queue, parsnips and the
sea coasts of France, a lancet than four inches, very sharp, crooked teeth and trimmed for
that tear in with the meat, causing excruciating pain and often attacks of tetanus: unfortunately
these accidents are common, especially in the headwaters of the rivers. Increasing time, five
or six yards water cover these salient points, and is then passed over them without being I could
see.

In the twelfth day, the forests on the banks of Piray stop suddenly, and are replaced for a swamp
to where two creeks come to be lost, the palace and the pompano, born on the plains of Santa
Cruz de la Sierra. These swamps or marshes to announce that not far from the end of the journey.

The
fourteenth day are passed followed, one after another, four rapids,
not far from where port is presented on the left bank, and has no
more room to a spacious roofed hut of palm leaves from this port,
separate from the hamlet of Four-Eyes by a deep swamp that is a mile
long, you have to walk yet thirty leagues to get to Santa Cruz de
la Sierra.

In the rainy season are used only ten days to make this road, up the Piray, and six days, moving
downstream from Four-Eyes to Loreto.

POPULATION.

If we compare what I said in the first period of history before the arrival Moxos of the Spanish,
trying to find out what they have come to stop those primitive nations
districts, shall find the following results.

The nation of Moxos still occupies the places you lived before, with the only difference meeting to
meet the missions of the province as follows.

Muchojeones del Carmen. 230

  Moxos Baures del Carmen. 362 "Concepcion
  Moxos. 3.126 "San-Joaquin Moxos. 690 "Still
  savages. 1,000 ------ 5,178
                                   
                                              Moxos Moxos of Loreto.

2,145 "Trinidad. 2.604 "San Xavier. 1.515
  "San Ignacio. 1.948 ------ 8,212 ------
  Total. 13,620
  
                                   It looks
                                              as if
                                             this exposition
that almost all of the Moxos is subject to Christianity, there are
still some in the savage state: these (of which a small number belonged
to the missions of the Jesuits time) live set divided into families
Guaporé river not far, and east of the missions and Carmen Concepcion,
without communicating their compatriots never converted.

It is also the relative number of different Moxos tribes, and Muchojeones Baures, and can
calculate the importance that should be, within a country flooded, a nation whose people still
spend thirteen thousand, speaking all Moxo dialect.

Accustomed to obedience, Moxos have a kind nature, sociable, cheerful, and but that all patients,
but the way they are always ready to laugh at the smallest trifle when they are delivered to
themselves, just as slavery has made them shy and silent in the presence of superiors.

These natives have a particular fondness for drawing, which continues to be accompanied with
enough skill: his paintings of animals and plants regularly copied. Sculptors turners, carpenters,
weavers workshops, produced countless curios that have to sell in some cities of Peru. Many
of them have learned Spanish and can write very well: in a word,
the nation of the Moxos is perhaps the most susceptible of civilization.

Among all the Indians of the province, the Moxos are currently Catholics not only more determined,
but that lead to fanaticism so that all years, during Holy Week, they were seen watering public spaces
that draw blood to force lashes. They are also superstitious in the extreme.

The nation of Itonama is totally subdued, and there is not a savage. In 1830, included:

In Magdalena. 2.831 In San-Ramon. 1,984

Total. 4,815

These Indians, whose character I have already spoken more than once
in the previous chapters, preserved inclinations and customs still
primitive, that the Catholic religion could not uproot.

The tissues they make are the best in the province.

       The language is always Itonama used in both missions.

The nation of Canichana entirely Christian, today is the mission of St. Peter. The number of its
population in 1830 amounted to 1939 individuals [1].

These natives have survived until today, in the very heart of the missions, many of its former customs,
and are still the terror of other nations, whose devastated fields stealing bear fruit, but
those to dare to venture a single complaint for fear estramado they have. The Canichana are
rude, and never use a courtesy to strangers. Today its population is less industrious in the province,
and one that feeds on the flesh caiman, for whose capture is worth a thousand tricks.

Profess Catholicism, they could not dispose of countless superstitions salvage their condition:
they are otherwise very bad Christians. The language of that use is the same as their original
state.

We moved the nation of has been assembled by the Jesuits in the mission of Santa Ana: it is not
one salvage it. According to the census of year 1830, its population was two hundred thousand
thirty-eight individuals. These Indians are egercitan in hunting, fishing, navigation and agriculture.
Industry, little more or less equal to that of the Moxos, has not
yet reached same degree of advancement, only exception to the tissues.

No trace remains today because of their primitive religion, however,
often report occasionally they have not forgotten all the superstitions
that were infused before of his conversion.

National language has not changed.
The nation of Cayuvava, fully converted to Christianity, is meeting
this Exaltation in the mission.

One night Ned had as usual gone to the mill, and having carried down the twelve barrels from
the office and placed them in a pile in the center of the principal room of the mill he retired
to bed. He had been asleep for some hours when he was awoke by the faint tingle of a bell.
The office was over the principal entrance to the mill, and leaping from his bed he threw up
the window and looked out. The night was dark, but he could see a crowd of at least two hundred
men gathered in the yard.

As the window was heard to open a sudden roar broke from the men, who had hitherto conducted
their operations in silence.

"There he be, there's the young fox; burn the mill over his head. Now to work, lads, burst
in the door."

And at once a man armed with a mighty sledgehammer began to batter at the door.

Ned tried to make himself heard, but his voice was lost in the roar without. Throwing on some
clothes he ran rapidly downstairs and lighted several lamps in the machine room. Then he went
to the door, which was already tottering under the heavy blows, shot back some of the bolts,
and then took his place by the side of the pile of barrels with a pistol in his hand.

In another moment the door yielded and fell with a crash, and the crowd with exultant cheers
poured in.

They paused surprised and irresolute at seeing Ned standing quiet and seemingly indifferent
by the pile of barrels in the center of the room.

"Hold!" he said in a quiet, clear voice, which sounded distinctly over the tumult. "Do not
come any nearer, or it will be the worse for you. Do you know what I have got here, lads? This
is powder. If you doubt it, one of you can come forward and look at this barrel with the head
out by my side. Now I have only got to fire my pistol into it to blow the mill, and you with
it, into the air, and I mean to do it. Of course I shall go too; but some of you with black
masks over your faces, who, I suppose, live near here, may know something about me, and may
know that my life is not so pleasant a one that I value it in the slightest. As far as I am
concerned you might burn the mill and me with it without my lifting a finger; but this mill
is the property of my mother, brother, and sister. Their living depends upon it, and I am going
to defend it. Let one of you stir a single step forward and I fire this pistol into this barrel
beside me."

And Ned held the pistol over the open barrel.

A dead silence of astonishment and terror had fallen upon the crowd. The light was sufficient
for them to see Ned's pale but determined face, and as his words came out cold and steady there
was not one who doubted that he was in earnest, and that he was prepared to blow himself and
them into the air if necessary.

A cry of terror burst from them as he lowered the pistol to the barrel of powder. Then in wild
dismay every man threw down his arms and fled, jostling each other fiercely to make their escape
through the doorway from the fate which threatened them. In a few seconds the place was cleared
and the assailants in full flight across the country. Ned laughed contemptuously. Then with
some difficulty he lifted the broken door into its place, put some props behind it, fetched
a couple of blankets from his bed, and lay down near the powder, and there slept quietly till
morning.

Luke and Bill Swinton were down at the factory an hour before the usual time. The assailants
had for the most part come over from Huddersfield, but many of the men from Varley had been
among them. The terror which Ned's attitude had inspired had been so great that the secret
was less well kept than usual, and as soon as people were astir the events of the night were
known to most in the village. The moment the news reached the ears of Luke and Bill they hurried
down to the mill without going in as usual for their mug of beer and bit of bread and cheese
at the "Brown Cow." The sight of the shattered door at once told them that the rumors they
had heard were well founded. They knocked loudly upon it.

"Hullo!" Ned shouted, rousing himself from his slumbers; "who is there? What are you kicking
up all this row about?"

"It's oi, Maister Ned, oi and Bill, and glad oi am to hear your voice. It's true, then, they
haven't hurt thee?"

"Not a bit of it," Ned said as he moved the supports of the door. "I think they got the worst
of it."

"If so be as what oi ha' heard be true you may well say that, Maister Ned. Oi hear as you ha'
gived 'em such a fright as they won't get over in a hurry. They say as you was a-sitting on
the top of a heap of gunpowder up to the roof with a pistol in each hand."

"Not quite so terrible as that, Luke; but the effect would have been the same. Those twelve
barrels of powder you see there would have blown the mill and all in it into atoms."

"Lord, Maister Ned," Bill said, "where didst thou get that powder, and why didn't ye say nowt
about it? Oi ha' seen it up in the office, now oi thinks on it. Oi wondered what them barrels
piled up in a corner and covered over wi' sacking could be; but it warn't no business o' mine
to ax."

"No, Bill, I did not want any of them to know about it, because these things get about, and
half the effect is lost unless they come as a surprise; but I meant to do it if I had been
driven to it, and if I had, King Lud would have had a lesson which he would not have forgotten
in a hurry. Now, Luke, you and Bill had better help me carry them back to their usual place.
I don't think they are likely to be wanted again."

"That they won't be," Luke said confidently; "the Luddites ull never come near this mill agin,
not if thou hast twenty toimes as many machines. They ha' got a froight they won't get over.
They told me as how some of the chaps at Varley was so freighted that they will be a long toime
afore they gets round. Oi'll go and ask tonight how that Methurdy chap, the blacksmith, be
a feeling. Oi reckon he's at the bottom on it. Dang un for a mischievous rogue! Varley would
ha' been quiet enough without him. Oi be wrong if oi shan't see him dangling from a gibbet
one of these days, and a good riddance too."

The powder was stowed away before the hands began to arrive, all full of wonder and curiosity.
They learned little at the mill, however. Ned went about the place as usual with an unchanged
face, and the hands were soon at their work; but many during the day wondered how it was possible
that their quiet and silent young employer should have been the hero of the desperate act of
which every one had heard reports more or less exaggerated.

A lad had been sent over to Marsden the first thing for some carpenters, and by nightfall a
rough but strong door had been hung in place of that which had been shattered. By the next
day rumor had carried the tale all over Marsden, and Ned on his return home was greeted by
Charlie with:

"Why, Ned, there is all sorts of talk in the place of an attack upon the mill the night before
last. Why didn't you tell me about it?"

"Yes, Maister Ned," Abijah put in, "and they say as you blew up about a thousand of them."

"Yes, Abijah," Ned said with a laugh, "and the pieces haven't come down yet."

"No! but really, Ned, what is it all about?"

"There is not much to tell you, Charlie. The Luddites came and broke open the door. I had got
several barrels of powder there, and when they came in I told them if they came any further
I should blow the place up. That put them in a funk, and they all bolted, and I went to sleep
again. That's the whole affair."

"Oh!" Charlie said in a disappointed voice, for this seemed rather tame after the thrilling
reports he had heard.

"Then you didn't blow up any of 'em, Maister Ned," Abijah said doubtfully.

"Not a man jack, Abijah. You see I could not very well have blown them up without going up
myself too, so I thought it better to put it off for another time."

"They are very wicked, bad men," Lucy said gravely.

"Not so very wicked and bad, Lucy. You see they are almost starving, and they consider that
the new machines have taken the bread out of their mouths, which is true enough. Now you know
when people are starving, and have not bread for their wives and children, they are apt to
get desperate. If I were to see you starving, and thought that somebody or something was keeping
the bread out of your mouth, I dare say I should do something desperate."

"But it would be wrong all the same," Lucy said doubtfully.

"Yes, my dear, but it would be natural; and when human nature pulls one way, and what is right
pulls the other, the human nature generally gets the best of it."

Lucy did not exactly understand, but she shook her head gravely in general dissent to Ned's view.

"Why did you not tell us when you came home to breakfast yesterday?" Charlie asked.

"Because I thought you were sure to hear sooner or later. I saw all the hands in the mill had
got to know about it somehow or other, and I was sure it would soon get over the place; and
I would rather that I could say, if any one asked me, that I had not talked about it to any
one, and was in no way responsible for the absurd stories which had got about. I have been
talked about enough in Marsden, goodness knows, and it is disgusting that just as I should
think they must be getting tired of the subject here is something fresh for them to begin upon
again."

As they were at tea the servant brought in a note which had just been left at the door. It
was from Mr. Thompson, saying that in consequence of the rumors which were current in the town
he should be glad to learn from Ned whether there was any foundation for them, and would therefore
be obliged if he would call at eight o'clock that evening. His colleague, Mr. Simmonds, would
be present.

Ned gave an exclamation of disgust as he threw down the note.

"Is there any answer, sir?" the servant asked. "The boy said he was to wait."

"Tell him to say to Mr. Thompson that I will be there at eight o'clock; but that--no, that will do.

"It wouldn't be civil," he said to Charlie as the door closed behind the servant, "to say that
I wish to goodness he would let my affairs alone and look to his own."

When Ned reached the magistrates at the appointed hour he found that the inquiry was of a formal
character. Besides the two justices, Major Browne, who commanded the troops at Marsden, was
present; and the justices' clerk was there to take notes.

Mr. Simmonds greeted Ned kindly, Mr. Thompson stiffly. He was one of those who had from the
first been absolutely convinced that the lad had killed his stepfather. The officer, who was
of course acquainted with the story, examined Ned with a close scrutiny.

"Will you take a seat, Ned?" Mr. Simmonds, who was the senior magistrate, said. "We have asked
you here to explain to us the meaning of certain rumors which are current in the town of an
attack upon your mill."

"I will answer any questions that you may ask," Ned said quietly, seating himself, while the
magistrates' clerk dipped his pen in the ink and prepared to take notes of his statement.

"Is it the case that the Luddites made an attack upon your mill the night before last?"

"It is true, sir."

"Will you please state the exact circumstances."

"There is not much to tell," Ned said quietly. "I have for some time been expecting an attack,
having received many threatening letters. I have, therefore, made a habit of sleeping in the
mill, and a month ago I got in twelve barrels of powder from Huddersfield. Before going to
bed of a night I always pile these in the middle of the room where the looms are, which is
the first as you enter. I have bells attached to the shutters and doors to give me notice of
any attempt to enter. The night before last I was awoke by hearing one of them ring, and looking
out of the window made out a crowd of two or three hundred men outside. They began to batter
the door, so, taking a brace of pistols which I keep in readiness by my bed, I went down and
took my place by the powder. When they broke down the door and entered I just told them that
if they came any further I should fire my pistol into one of the barrels, the head of which
I had knocked out, and, as I suppose they saw that I meant to do it, they went off. That is
all I have to tell, so far as I know."

The clerk's pen ran swiftly over the paper as Ned quietly made his statement. Then there was
a silence for a minute or two.

"And did you really mean to carry out your threat, Mr. Sankey?"

"Certainly," Ned said.

"But you would, of course, have been killed yourself."

"Naturally," Ned said dryly; "but that would have been of no great consequence to me or any
one else. As the country was lately about to take my life at its own expense it would not greatly
disapprove of my doing so at my own, especially as the lesson to the Luddites would have been
so wholesale a one that the services of the troops in this part of the country might have been
dispensed with for some time."

"Did you recognize any of the men concerned?"

"I am glad to say I did not," Ned replied. "Some of them were masked. The others were, so far
as I could see among such a crowd of faces in a not very bright light, all strangers to me."

"And you would not recognize any of them again were you to see them?"

"I should not," Ned replied. "None of them stood out prominently among the others."

"You speak, Mr. Sankey," Mr. Thompson said, "as if your sympathies were rather on the side
of these men, who would have burned your mill, and probably have murdered you, than against them."

"I do not sympathize with the measures the men are taking to obtain redress for what they regard
as a grievance; but I do sympathize very deeply with the amount of suffering which they are
undergoing from the introduction of machinery and the high prices of provisions; and I am not
surprised that, desperate as they are, and ignorant as they are, they should be led astray
by bad advice. Is there any other question that you wish to ask me?"

"Nothing at present, I think," Mr. Simmonds said after consulting his colleague by a look.
"We shall, of course, forward a report of the affair to the proper authorities, and I may say
that although you appear to take it in a very quiet and matter of fact way, you have evidently
behaved with very great courage and coolness, and in a manner most creditable to yourself.
I think, however, that you ought immediately to have made a report to us of the circumstances,
in order that we might at once have determined what steps should be taken for the pursuit and
apprehension of the rioters."

Ned made no reply, but rising, bowed slightly to the three gentlemen and walked quietly from
the room.

"A singular young fellow!" Major Browne remarked as the door closed behind him. "I don't quite
know what to make of him, but I don't think he could have committed that murder. It was a cowardly
business, and although I believe he might have a hand in any desperate affair, as indeed this
story he has just told us shows, I would lay my life he would not do a cowardly one."

"I agree with you," Mr. Simmonds said, "though I own that I have never been quite able to rid
myself of a vague suspicion that he was guilty."

"And I believe he is so still," Mr. Thompson said. "To me there is something almost devilish
about that lad's manner."

"His manner was pleasant enough," Mr. Simmonds said warmly, "before that affair of Mulready.
He was as nice a lad as you would wish to see till his mother was fool enough to get engaged
to that man, who, by the way, I never liked. No wonder his manner is queer now; so would yours
be, or mine, if we were tried for murder and, though acquitted, knew there was still a general
impression of our guilt."

"Yes, by Jove," the officer said, "I should be inclined to shoot myself. You are wrong, Mr.
Thompson, take my word for it. That young fellow never committed a cowardly murder. I think
you told me, Mr. Simmonds, that he had intended to go into the army had it not been for this
affair? Well, his majesty has lost a good officer, for that is just the sort of fellow who
would lead a forlorn hope though he knew the breach was mined in a dozen places. It is a pity,
a terrible pity!"

CHAPTER XVIII: NED IS ATTACKED

As Ned had foreseen and resented, the affair at the mill again made him the chief topic of
talk in the neighborhood, and the question of his guilt or innocence of the murder of his stepfather
was again debated with as much earnestness as it had been when the murder was first committed.
There was this difference, however, that whereas before he had found but few defenders, for
the impression that he was guilty was almost universal, there were now many who took the other
view.

The one side argued that a lad who was ready to blow himself and two or three hundred men into
the air was so desperate a character that he would not have been likely to hesitate a moment
in taking the life of a man whom he hated, and who had certainly ill treated him. The other
side insisted that one with so much cool courage would not have committed a murder in so cowardly
a way as by tying a rope across the road which his enemy had to traverse. One party characterized
his conduct at the mill as that of the captain of a pirate ship, the other likened it to any
of the great deeds of devotion told in history--the death of Leonidas and his three hundred,
or the devotion of Mutius Scaevola.

Had Ned chosen now he might have gathered round himself a strong party of warm adherents, for
there were many who, had they had the least encouragement, would have been glad to shake him
by the hand and to show their partisanship openly and warmly; but Ned did not choose. The doctor
and Mr. Porson strongly urged upon him that he should show some sort of willingness to meet
the advances which many were anxious to make.

"These people are all willing to admit that they have been wrong, Ned, and really anxious to
atone as far as they can for their mistake in assuming that you were guilty. Now is your time,
my boy; what they believe today others will believe tomorrow; it is the first step toward living
it down. I always said it would come, but I hardly ventured to hope that it would come so soon."

"I can't do it, Mr. Porson; I would if I could, if only for the sake of the others; but I can't
talk, and smile, and look pleasant. When a man knows that his mother lying at home thinks that
he is a murderer how is he to go about like other people?"

"But I have told you over and over again, Ned, that your mother is hardly responsible for her
actions. She has never been a very reasonable being, and is less so than ever at present. Make
an effort, my boy, and mix with others. Show yourself at the cricket match next week. You know
the boys are all your firm champions, and I warrant that half the people there will flock round
you and make much of you if you will but give them the chance."

But Ned could not, and did not, but went on his way as before, living as if Marsden had no
existence for him, intent upon his work at the mill, and unbending only when at home with his
brother and sister.

His new friend, Cartwright, was, of course, one of the first to congratulate him on the escape
the mill had had of destruction.

"I was wondering what you would do if they came," he said, "and was inclined to think you were
a fool for not following my example and having some of your hands to sleep at the mill. Your
plan was best, I am ready to allow; that is to say, it was best for any one who was ready to
carry out his threat if driven to it. I shouldn't be, I tell you fairly. If the mill is attacked
I shall fight and shall take my chance of being shot, but I could not blow myself up in cold
blood."

"I don't suppose I could have done so either in the old times," Ned said with a faint smile.
"My blood used to be hot enough, a good deal too hot, but I don't think anything could get
it up to boiling point now, so you see if this thing had to be done at all it must have been
in cold blood."

"By the way, Sankey, I wish you would come over one day next week and dine with me; there will
be no one else there except my daughter."

Ned hastily muttered an excuse.

"Oh, that is all nonsense," Mr. Cartwright said good humoredly; "you are not afraid of me,
and you needn't be afraid of my daughter. She is only a child of fifteen, and of course takes
you at my estimate, and is disposed to regard you as a remarkable mixture of the martyr and
the hero, and to admire you accordingly. Pooh, pooh, lad! you can't be living like a hermit
all your life; and at any rate if you make up your mind to have but a few friends you must
be all the closer and more intimate with them. I know you dine with Porson and Green, and I
am not going to let you keep me at arm's length; you must come, or else I shall be seriously
offended."

So Ned had no resource left him, and had to consent to dine at Liversedge. Once there he often
repeated the visit. With the kind and hearty manufacturer he was perfectly at home, and although
at first he was uncomfortable with his daughter he gradually became at his ease with her, especially
after she had driven over with her father to make friends with Lucy, and, again, a short time
afterward, to carry her away for a week's visit at Liversedge. Nótanse
also on the edge of the woods two other species of palms, the very high and holds its leaves
in a single line divided to the two sides of the trunk, forming a beautiful green range [2]
and the other thorny [3] leaves similar, though smaller, to the Royal Palm Chiquitos. Something closer
to the mission, a wild fruit is grown the shape of a pear, which only eat when you're black
of ripe, they taste like the loquat, and their seeds are very analogous to those of the pear.

;

The
San-Joaquin population in 1823 was composed of seven hundred sixty-six
Baures Indians; but the devastation caused in 1832 by the smallpox
and Sarapion, the reduced number of six hundred and ninety souls.

The village consists of five installments, known under the names
of Paschiono, Caparebocono, Tacarano, Abeabano and stumps.

The cattle of the state property amounted in 1830 to three thousand eight hundred and eight heads,
and the horse to three hundred thirty-five.

In that year the product of the mission was six hundred seventy dollars.

San-Joaquin roads to Exaltation.

To go to San-Joaquin San-Pedro, it follows (as stated in speaking of this mission) during Machupo
River through San-Ramon. To go in the rainy season to Exaltation, which is twenty-seven miles
in a straight line towards the west, it is necessary to cross a plain canoe cross in all directions
for several streams that are routed, one at River Machupo others to the Mamore. In dry times
it has been traveling the same path to the magnificent horse plains, but for the conveyance of goods
there is no other vehicle than the rivers, and path then extends one hundred and twenty leagues.
They got the first thirty Machupo River to its confluence with the item or Guaporé; next forty
east to its junction with the Mamore, which is necessary to rise, following his lengthy detours
by space of fifty leagues, to get to Exaltation. To learn more about these vehicles transport,
which are both the most beautiful rapids of the province, I will describe detail.

San-Joaquin leaving you sail for two days by the Machupo, descending
towards the north-northeast.

The banks of this river are trimmed with very dense forest, which reveal the effect of a active vegetation.
Savage appearance, but varied in these solitudes, not without a certain greatness. On one side,
dark green tint of the forests, the windings multiplied the river, the troops of monkeys, the
many dolphins that travel to two canoes, and the other the multitude of coastal and terrestrial
birds, encourage landscaping making it more interesting. The river, whose width is one hundred
yards, received tributes from a number of creeks help drain the flood plain. At noon the second
day passed by a site where both sides are covered with plantations grown and belonging to the
Indians San-Ramon and San-Joaquin. Machupo along the banks of the river are quite high over
a long space of course, a fact which should encourage the cultivation of its banks, being therefore
strange that is not thought to put less distance missions. A little more than two in the afternoon,
the confluence of the river has Itonama, under whose name continues running to meet the Machupo
Guaporé or ITENE. Then we discover towards the north above the trees, the western prolongation
of the Sierra's Diamond. From this starting point to show thousands of dolphins playing on the airwaves,
and transit Some leagues, are three beautiful species of palms, which are not found anywhere else
Part [1]. At about five river flows into the Iten, whose confluence would have been very desirable
to establish a population, given the great elevation of the left bank of Itonama, but certainly
not this have given rise to endless discussions between Spanish and Portuguese, on the limits
of their respective possessions, and is already referred to, eager the latter to retain its
monopoly of the navigation of these rivers, the Jesuits espulsaron trying to settle on its banks
[2].

Items which the river is a quarter of a mile wide at this point, and its majestic waters fairly quickly
by running between the islands of the most picturesque appearance.

On one of his banks, filled with trees, is a Brazilian place: to go to him, it is necessary
to fight upstream from the rivers Itenes é Itonama, we hit form a barrier force movable, an imposing
appearance. The post is occupied even a sergeant and four soldiers, they have orders not to let
any vessel without the consent of the commander the fort of Beira, which is located two miles
below. It is therefore essential writing advance to the trustee at the request of a pass in front
of the fort. Although the left bank owned any property to the Republic of Bolivia, the Brazilian
are considered the absolute masters of the whole river course. The soldiers guarding the post,
They are just clothes, and live in abject poverty, a handful of farinha pao is the ration given
daily for their maintenance, and every eight days, get some powder cartridges that hunt elk and
other wild animals whose meat they also serve food.

Fort Prince of Beira.

When you have achieved the specified permission, or descends Guaporé
Iten, admiring the picturesque in its margins, and the mountains that
dominate its left bank.

Two leagues, little more or less, presents a strong Prince of Beira on which the flag flutters
Brazil. This strong, square and surrounded by moats, it is also a bastion at each flank. Carboniferous
sandstone, consisting of the adjacent mountains, is the material used in its construction,
which has been well executed by a European engineer. His garrison, now reduced to thirty men.
It was this strong in its foundation, a prison for murderers, but today is intended to serve as the
condemned political exile, who are deprived of all kinds of resources in this secluded place
where they have yet some ease.

The little town of Santa Rosa, under the strong, and half a league originally was far towards the
west, is placed at this háacia the north and to less distance, being
composed single row of houses, whose inhabitants are all black and
mulatto, amounted to number four.

Dealing with this population to traffic with checkpoints, rising from Para, on the Madeira River
and then by the Guaporé, to Mato Grosso. These large boats, awnings and flat bottom are the size
of a sloop of twenty to thirty tons; and though in proportion to the depth of the river may
have more capacity, no number jumps of the Madeira River (which are presented whenever sailors
forced to withdraw to water to carry their boats overland with the help of round logs, placed
by way of wheels) makes its size is decreased. Otherwise this is the only difficulty that provides
the navigation of this river, which is enough depth everywhere to serve as a vehicle for steamboats
of the largest dimension.

Para Starting up the booths to sail or paddle to the mouth of the Madeira River, then to paddle only
to stumble at the first rapids, which is necessary to save the So I have said, renewing operation
more than twenty times, and in which much is lost time [1].

Having saved the last cachuela you paddle with great work to the confluence of Itenes and Mamore
rivers, and from this point, the fort of Beira, where the food makers to go up at once to Mato
Grosso. Be necessary to use a full year in the first leg and return of these expeditions, it is
preferred by ground lead directly Rio Janeiro Santos or value of merchandises, and although the distance
is traveled by mule is eight hundred leagues, while the economy continues to be considerable, so
that the booths, being reserved solely for the purpose of transporting a lot of volume or weight,
no are but three or four expeditions per year from Pará to Mato Grosso.

Around the fort of Prince of Beira forest villages are spacious, where palm trees stand out: the hills
immediately, placed in an amphitheater, is gradually rise towards the north, coming to be
quite far from its peak.

The ground remains entirely composed of sandstone, is barren, and only some pieces adjacent
to the river bank Itenes lend to agriculture and produce very good results.

On leaving the fort of Beira, the river Itenes or Guaporé [1] is about half a league wide;
clear water, but black sheen, are slowly down through forests and magnificent an savage aspect
rather than picturesque.

The nature in this place is too big and majestic for them to understand the details. Meanwhile,
very rarely be disturbed any traveler this beautiful loneliness that holds no more ornaments
than the rich vegetation of dark forests, because even the birds cross only by chance and without
ever stopping. No However, the uniformity of landscaping is occasionally interrupted by some garrisoned
islands trees, and blue mountains on the right bank, highlighting the distance on dark green
background of lush forests.

After having gone a long journey, rowing with all the speed of the current, halts at dusk, or
on the right bank where there is a very dense forest where the ground
should be excellent for farming, or on the left is filled with magnificent
forests.

The Brazilians attacked the fort are often very often these Parages by Indians Itenes inhabiting
both shores, and exploit every opportunity to strive for violence, weapons and iron that they
are absolutely necessary from the time of contact with the Spanish and Portuguese. These savages,
an independent and proud, have retained their entire freedom, preferring to be decimated every
day from over a century, rather than submit to the religious zeal of the Jesuits or the yoke
of the Spanish. Today are still what they were in the time of discovery, and its conservation
should independence to the close union that seems to reign among them.

This nation occupies all the angle formed by the confluence of the rivers Itenes and Mamore.
The tribes who live scattered component within a desert surrounded by huge impenetrable swamps
and jungles.

These Indians, whose customs are extremely unique, just ignore the middle civilization around
them, so clever and covertly slip their canoes in small tributaries of the Mamore and Iten, where
the Indians lurk mission or the soldiers of Fort Brazilian Beira, attacking the neglect, many times
for the shadows of the night, another attempt to procure the few tools.

On the second day, you see the river as wide and beautiful as the day before, but much more tortuous
and almost entirely rid of islets is seen among both trimmed its
left bank palm palm fronds, whereas on the right comes from too many
trees varied, a new species of palms, known as the Indian chuco and
most remarkable for its leaves, whose figure is equal to that of a
sun, it is composed of numerous leaflets it like a lightning start
from a central point to which they are sugetas [1].

Upon arriving at the angle formed by the reunion of the Mamore Itenes, a spectacle more impressive
is presented to the eye, which embrace one stroke both the majestic swing currents can easily compare
and admire the wonderful contrast [1].

The river Iten, which, as already stated, receives all the waters of the province of Mato Grosso
and northern and north-west of Chiquitos, and whose tax, dropping from some high hills, are gently
by a vast area of ​​plains, which have strong embankments, it retains
its waves almost always pure and never carries plant offal; to step
the Mamore, not only remains murky and muddy throughout the year,
but carries bubbling trunks, leaves, roots, and sometimes whole trees,
therefore, to have more of their resources on the high cerranías provinces
of Cochabamba, Mizque and Valle Grande, or on the north side of the
last slopes of the mountain, all its tributaries are formed and cross
the raging torrents plain with such rapidity that start passing along
the banks of one of its edges.

Results from this provision so different that the Itenes presents everywhere on its banks a
field highly desirable to establish stable and flourishing villages, while the banks Mamore not
give rise to the insurance of any kind, or even lend even for agriculture: reason why all missions
Mamoré only the banks involved some tax side.

Itenes river water after being reunited with the Mamore, run for a long area without mixing and
still retain their semblance particular.

From the point of reunion of these two great rivers is to make a six-day voyage canoe to arrive
at the confluence of the Beni River, which comes down from west to join on the left with the
Mamore, which carries on its majestic course under the name of river de Madeiras [1].

The banks of the Mamore are already naked in this place of ancient forests, and all parties offer
floodplain, where the plant breeding has been called the Spanish
chuchio [1] and the lambaiva, whose leaves are whitish and cut into
finger-like protruding on the tender green of the willows on the green
or blue with the smooth.

Among the many palm species already known, covering more lofty terrain, stands a new, peculiar
to this district, which is grown in abundance, particularly on the
hillsides.

This plant, which the Brazilians give the name of vinte pes (twenty feet) is one of the most
elegant of the palm family, their roots, that support the trunk, lower from the height of three yards,
away from each other in proportion as they approach the ground: this is the circumstance that
made you give the name under which it is known in the country.

The auction of the trunk smooth and steep, which usually comes at the height of fifteen to twenty
beam, leaving for its large leaves everywhere gracefully trimmed in an elegant plume: sírvense
Indians off to make rosary beads [2].

On the first day of the Mamore, are sighted several camps of Indians savages, and at each step
are noted in the narrow canyons trails that go down to the river, particularly on the right bank,
whose lands are higher.

It comes in the meantime to meet the Mamore, left, the river Iruyani, often furrowed by Cayuvava
of Exaltation, sometimes rising to the west, up near the mission Reyes. A little above, is
also the mouth of Matucaré, on whose Itenes tribes inhabiting the banks that have formed at that
point a sort of village beautiful plantings that grow maize, cassava and bananas: these warlike
Indians make frequent raids on the dry time in the Mission District
of Exaltation in order to acquire weapons and tools.

When the rains that fall into the Mamore sources are somewhat heavy,
they accrete considerably waves, dragging more trees than usual; so
are some areas, particularly in the middle of the river, so covered
vegetable offal look great floating islands.

To have to fight less against the current, always pays Orrillo it is opposed, but the windings multiplied
formed by the river, forcing surfers to cross very often on one side to the other, which continues
to be extremely dangerous, as the slightest collision with these floating logs can immerse
the flimsy canoes: but the wisdom and skill with which the pilots and rowers execute their
maneuvers in difficult times, triumph over obstacles sludge.

In this transition are found always tangled woods, in which there
is a large tree, usually have enough thirteen and fifteen yards in
circumference.

The Spanish have given the Higueron name [1], as a sort of giant fig tree, but in the province
of Santa Cruz most well known under the bibosi. Indians used the bark of this tree to be shirts,
and flat roots, which are divided into vertical sheets are naturally draw tables that serve to
cut the boxes in which the Espido goods in the state-owned. All these forests, inhabited by a
prodigious diversity of plant almost unknown in her womb also harbor tigers and other wild animals.

The
banks of the Mamore present at every step picturesque landscaping, and them that the variety
of the vegetation makes it look more cheerful. The low spots are always covered sensory pink flower,
while the driest thing Parages abundant plant whose stems are shaped like a fan, and are crowned
with tufts whitish, waving uniformly at the whim of the wind contrast
with mimosa blossoms, with lambaiva of sugar clusters, or with vines
hanging all over the interlaced branches with palm trees.

Any wonder the traveler who passes through the middle of those lovely borders, where his eyes peacefully
rests on a very lavish vegetation, or to stop They look forward to these colonies of Kingfisher,
who out of their boxes hidden in holes in sandy cliffs, still by far the direction of the canoes.

On the third day have to face one of the greatest challenges confronting the Mamore for navigation,
as there is a point where its current very narrow, is to be more impetuous, and form a swirling
funnel too fast for canoes can save them without venturing too: such is the violence sweeping the
water passing above them, the weaker vessel wavers and wobbles as
if it had hit against a rock.



"Are they killed, feyther?" Polly cried as she ran up breathless to them.

"Noa, lass; oi think as t' maister be only stunned, and Bill ha' fainted from loss o' blood.
But oi doan't know how bad he be hurted yet. We had best carry 'em back to t' house; we can't
see to do nowt here."

"Best let them stay here, feyther, till we can stop the bleeding. Moving would set the wounds
off worse."

"Perhaps you are right, Polly. Jarge, do thou run back to t' house as hard as thou canst go.
Loight t' lanterns and bring 'em along, wi' a can o' cold water."

Although the boy ran to the village and back at the top of his speed the time seemed long indeed
to those who were waiting. When he returned they set to work at once to examine the injuries.
Ned appeared to have received but one blow. The blood was slowly welling from a wound at the
back of his head.

"That war maade by a leaded stick, oi guess," Luke said; "it's cut through his hat, and must
pretty nigh ha' cracked his skool. One of you bathe un wi' the water while we looks arter Bill."

Polly gave an exclamation of horror as the light fell upon Bill Swinton. He was covered with
blood. A clean cut extended from the top of the ear to the point of the chin, another from
the left shoulder to the breast, while a third gash behind had cut through to the bone of the
shoulder blade.

"Never moind t' water, lass," Luke said as Polly with trembling hands was about to wash the
blood from the cut on the face, "the bluid won't do un no harm--thou must stop t' bleeding."

Polly tore three or four long strips from the bottom of her dress. While she was doing so one
of the men by Luke's directions took the lantern and gathered some short dry moss from the
side of the slope, and laid it in a ridge on the gaping wound. Then Luke with Polly's assistance
tightly bandaged Bill's head, winding the strips from the back of the head round to the chin,
and again across the temples and jaw. Luke took out his knife and cut off the coat and shirt
from the arms and shoulder, and in the same way bandaged up the other two wounds.

After George had started to fetch the lantern, Luke had at Polly's suggestion sent two men
back to the village, and these had now returned with doors they had taken off the hinges. When
Bill's wounds were bandaged he and Ned were placed on the doors, Ned giving a faint groan as
he was moved.

"That's roight," Luke said encouragingly; "he be a-cooming round."

Two coats were wrapped up and placed under their heads, and they were then lifted and carried
off, Polly hurrying on ahead to make up the fire and get hot water.

"Say nowt to no one," Luke said as he started. "Till t' master cooms round there ain't no saying
what he'd loike done. Maybe he won't have nowt said aboot it."

The water was already hot when the party reached the cottage; the blood was carefully washed
off Ned's head, and a great swelling with an ugly gash running across was shown. Cold water
was dashed in his face, and with a gasp he opened his eyes.

"It be all roight, Maister Ned," Luke said soothingly; "it be all over now, and you be among
vriends. Ye've had an ugly one on the back o' thy head, but I dowt thou wilt do rarely now."

Ned looked round vaguely, then a look of intelligence came into his face.

"Where is Bill?" he asked.

"He be hurted sorely, but oi think it be only loss o' blood, and he will coom round again;
best lie still a few minutes, maister, thou wilt feel better then; Polly, she be tending Bill."

In a few minutes Ned was able to sit up; a drink of cold brandy and water further restored
him. He went to the bed on which Bill had been placed.

"He's not dead?" he asked with a gasp, as he saw the white face enveloped in bandages.

"No, surelie," Luke replied cheerfully; "he be a long way from dead yet, oi hoape, though he
be badly cut about."

"Have you sent for the doctor?" Ned asked.

"No!"

"Then send for Dr. Green at once, and tell him from me to come up here instantly."

Ned sat down in a chair for a few minutes, for he was still dazed and stupid; but his brain
was gradually clearing. Presently he looked up at the men who were still standing silently
near the door.

"I have no doubt," he said, "that I have to thank you all for saving my life, but at present
I do not know how it has all come about. I will see you tomorrow. But unless it has already
got known, please say nothing about this. I don't want it talked about--at any rate until we
see how Bill gets on.

"Now, Luke," he continued, when the men had gone, "tell me all about it. My brain is in a whirl,
and I can hardly think."

Luke related the incidents of the fight and the flight of the assailants, and said that they
had carried off a dead man with them. Ned sat for some time in silence.

"Yes," he said at last, "I shot one. I was walking along with Bill when suddenly a gun was
fired from a bush close by; then a number of men jumped up and rushed upon us. I had my pistol,
and had just time to fire two shots. I saw one man go straight down, and then they were upon
us. They shouted to Bill to get out of the way, but he went at them like a lion. I don't think
any of the others had guns; at any rate they only attacked us with sticks and knives. I fought
with my back to Bill as well as I could, and we were keeping them off, till suddenly I don't
remember any more."

"One on them hit ye from behind wi' a loaded stick," Luke said, "and thou must ha' gone doon
like a felled ox; then oi expects as Bill stood across thee and kept them off as well as he
could, but they war too much for t' lad; beside that cut on the head he ha' one on shoulder
and one behind. Oi war only joost in toime, another quarter of a minute and they'd ha' got
their knives into thee."

"Poor old Bill," Ned said sadly, going up to the bedside and laying his hand on the unconscious
figure. "I fear you have given your life to save one of little value to myself or any one else."

"Don't say that, Master Ned," Polly said softly; "you cannot say what your life may be as yet,
and if so be that Bill is to die, and God grant it isn't so, he himself would not think his
life thrown away if it were given to save yours."

But few words were spoken in the cottage until Dr. Green arrived. Ned's head was aching so
that he was forced to lie down. Polly from time to time moistened Bill's lips with a few drops
of brandy. George had been ordered off to bed, and Luke sat gazing at the fire, wishing that
there was something he could do.

At last the doctor arrived; the messenger had told him the nature of the case, and he had come
provided with lint, plaster, and bandages.

"Well, Ned," he asked as he came in, "have you been in the wars again?"

"I am all right, doctor. I had a knock on the head which a day or two will put right; but I
fear Bill is very seriously hurt."

The doctor at once set to to examine the bandages.

"You have done them up very well," he said approvingly; "but the blood is still oozing from
them. I must dress them afresh; get me plenty of hot water, Polly, I have brought a sponge
with me. Can you look on without fainting?"

"I don't think I shall faint, sir," Polly said quietly; "if I do, feyther will take my place."

In a quarter of an hour the wounds were washed, drawn together, and bandaged. There was but
little fresh bleeding, for the lad's stock of life blood had nearly all flowed away.

"A very near case," the doctor said critically; "as close a shave as ever I saw. Had the wound
on the face been a quarter of an inch nearer the eyebrow it would have severed the temporal
artery. As it is it has merely laid open the jaw. Neither of the other wounds are serious,
though they might very well have been fatal."

"Then you think he will get round, doctor?" Ned asked in a low tone.

"Get round! Of course he will," Dr. Green replied cheerily. "Now that we have got him bound
up we will soon bring him round. It is only a question of loss of blood."

"Hullo! this will never do," he broke off as Ned suddenly reeled and would have fallen to the
ground had not Luke caught him.

"Pour this cordial down Swinton's throat, Polly, a little at a time, and lift his head as you
do it, and when you see him open his eyes, put a pillow under his head; but don't do so till
he begins to come round. Now let me look at Ned's head.

"It must have been a tremendous blow, Luke," he said seriously. "I, only hope it hasn't fractured
the skull. However, all this swelling and suffusion of blood is a good sign. Give me that hot
water. I shall put a lancet in here and get it to bleed freely. That will be a relief to him."

While he was doing this an exclamation of pleasure from Polly showed that Bill was showing
signs of returning to life. His eyes presently opened. Polly bent over him.

"Lie quiet, Bill, dear; you have been hurt, but the doctor says you will soon be well again.
Yes; Master Ned is all right too. Don't worry yourself about him."

An hour later both were sleeping quietly.

"They will sleep till morning," Dr. Green said, "perhaps well on into the day; it is no use
my waiting any longer. I will be up the first thing."

So he drove away, while Polly took her work and sat down to watch the sleepers during the night,
and Luke, taking his stick and hat, set off to guard the mill till daylight.

Ned woke first just as daylight was breaking; he felt stupid and heavy, with a splitting pain
in his head. He tried to rise, but found that he could not do so. He accordingly told George
to go down in an hour's time to Marsden, and to leave a message at the house saying that he
was detained and should not be back to breakfast, and that probably he might not return that
night. The doctor kept his head enveloped in wet bandages all day, and he was on the following
morning able to go down to Marsden, although still terribly pale and shaken. His appearance
excited the liveliest wonder and commiseration on the part of Charlie, Lucy, and Abijah; but
he told them that he had had an accident, and had got a nasty knock on the back of his head.
He kept his room for a day or two; but at the end of that time he was able to go to the mill
as usual. Bill Swinton was longer away, but broths and jellies soon built up his strength again,
and in three weeks he was able to resume work, although it was long before the ugly scar on
his face was healed. The secret was well kept, and although in time the truth of the affair
became known in Varley it never reached Marsden, and Ned escaped the talk and comment which
it would have excited had it been known, and, what was worse, the official inquiry which would
have followed.

The Huddersfield men naturally kept their own council. They had hastily buried their dead comrade
on the moor, and although several of them were so severely knocked about that they were unable
to go to work for some time, no rumor of the affair got about outside the circle of the conspirators.
It need hardly be said that this incident drew Ned and Bill even more closely together than
before, and that the former henceforth regarded Bill Swinton in the light of a brother.

At the end of the Christmas holidays Mr. Porson brought home a mistress to the schoolhouse.
She was a bright, pleasant woman, and having heard from her husband all the particulars of
Ned's case she did her best to make him feel that she fully shared in her husband's welcome
whenever he came to the house, and although Ned was some little time in accustoming himself
to the presence of one whom he had at first regarded as an intruder in the little circle of
his friends, this feeling wore away under the influence of her cordiality and kindness.

"Is it not shocking," she said to her husband one day, "to think that for nearly a year that
poor lad should never have seen his own mother, though she is in the house with him, still
worse to know that she thinks him a murderer? Do you think it would be of any good if I were
to go and see her, and tell her how wicked and wrong her conduct is?"

"No, my dear," Mr. Porson said, smiling, "I don't think that course would be at all likely
to have a good effect. 

Beni holds in its division, that vast area of ​​plains and mountains that make up the northern
extremity of the republic. Under an oblong shape, this surface, which goes from northeast to
southeast, is limited to the west and north-west in Guancané provinces and Carabaya belonging
to Peru and to the north, following the ancient border with Brazil, in the Beni River reunion with
the Mamore, as 10 degrees latitude South: limit then serve him during the Mamore to its confluence
with the Guapore as well as the course of this, heading toward its headwaters, to the extent
that Green River waters deposited therein. Leaving the border of Brazil, the department is
separated from the province of Chiquitos (which falls within the department of Santa-Cruz-de-la-Sierra)
and also in the province of Santa Cruz, by a fictitious line, crossing places inhabited the south and southeast
part of the plains of Moxos.

The slope of the Cordillera Oriental of the provinces of Valle Grande and the department Cochabamba
as limited to the south and southeast, and, later, the river of Mocetenes: Finally, the mountains
north of Dolls are set it apart from the provinces of Yungas Dolls and belonging to the Department
of La-Paz [1].

Circumscribed because of the way we just saw, the department of Beni, covers oblonga as of twenty thousand
square leagues (to twenty-five of the degree of surface area) covered between 64 and 73 degrees
west longitude meridian of Paris, and between 10 and 16 south latitude. This area comprises
the east and north, vast plains bathed by many navigable rivers, all tributaries of the River
Madeira, and therefore the Amazon River and the west or southwest through the mountains of
the eastern of the Cordilleras, mountains, which are always covered with the most prodigious
vegetation the world.

This department is divided into three provinces: the Caupolican, which occupies the north-west line,
in the mountains and plains that are at the foot, the country of Yuracaré, which is not only a
continuation South of these mountains and plains, the Moxos, finally,
that only includes the plain the northeast.

Distinguishing these three districts on many points, I give them
separately, a fairly detailed description.

BENI DEPARTMENT

CAUPOLICAN province [1].

Division and extent.
As I have said, Caupolican province occupies the north-west of the
department including between 10 and 16 degrees south latitude and
between 70 and 73 western longitude Paris meridian. She is an oblong
area, north-northeast directed to sudsudoeste, which has one hundred
twenty miles long sea, and over sixty wide, taking the term medium.
This area is also, more or less, of six thousand two hundred and fifty
leagues square, twenty-degree [2].

This broke the ice. Lucy's backwardness in music had long been a grievance with her mother,
who, as she lay in bed and listened to the girl practicing below had fretted over the thought
that she could obtain no good teacher for her in Marsden. Mrs. Porson's offer was therefore
too tempting to be refused, and as it was necessary to appear to reciprocate the kindness of
that lady, she determined to make an effort to receive her.

The meeting went off well. Having once made the effort Mrs. Mulready found, to her surprise,
that it was pleasant to her after being cut off for so many months from all intercourse with
the world, except such as she gained from the doctor, her two children, and the old servant,
to be chatting with her visitor, who exerted herself to the utmost to make herself agreeable.
The talk was at first confined to the ostensible subject of Mrs. Porson's visit; but after
that was satisfactorily arranged the conversation turned to Marsden and the neighborhood. Many
people had called upon Mrs. Porson, and as all of them were more or less known to Mrs. Mulready,
her visitor asked her many questions concerning them, and the invalid was soon gossiping cheerfully
over the family histories and personal peculiarities of her neighbors.

"You have done me a world of good," she said when Mrs. Porson rose to leave. "I never see any
one but the doctor, and he is the worst person in the world for a gossip. He ought to know
everything, but somehow he seems to know nothing. You will come again, won't you? It will be
a real kindness, and you have taken so much interest in my daughter that it quite seems to
me as if you were an old friend."

And so the visit was repeated: but not too often, for Mrs. Porson knew that it was better that
her patient should wait and long for her coming, and now that the ice was once broken, Mrs.
Mulready soon came to look forward with eagerness to these changes in her monotonous existence.

For some time Ned's name was never mentioned between them. Then one day Mrs. Porson, in a careless
manner, as if she had no idea whatever of the state of the relations between mother and son,
mentioned that Ned had been at their house the previous evening, saying: "My husband has a
wonderful liking and respect for your son; they are the greatest friends, though of course
there is a good deal of difference in age between them. I don't know any one of whom John thinks
so highly."

Mrs. Mulready turned very pale, and then in a constrained voice said: "Mr. Porson has always
been very kind to my sons."

Then she sighed deeply and changed the subject of conversation.

"Your wife is doing my patient a great deal more good than I have ever been able to do," Dr.
Green said one day to the schoolmaster. "She has become quite a different woman in the last
five or six weeks. She is always up and on the sofa now when I call, and I notice that she
begins to take pains with her dress again; and that, you know, is always a first rate sign
with a woman. I think she would be able to go downstairs again soon, were it not for her feeling
about Ned. She would not meet him, I am sure. You don't see any signs of a change in that quarter,
I suppose?"

"No," Mrs. Porson replied. "The last time I mentioned his name she said: 'My son is a most
unfortunate young man, and the subject pains me too much to discuss. Therefore, if you please,
Mrs. Porson, I would rather leave it alone.' So I am afraid there is no chance of my making
any progress there."

CHAPTER XIX: THE ATTACK ON CARTWRIGHT'S MILL

Ned still slept at the mill. He was sure that there was no chance of a renewal of the attack
by the workpeople near, but an assault might be again organized by parties from a distance.
The murder of Mr. Horsfall had caused greater vigilance than ever among the military. At some
of the mills the use of the new machinery had been discontinued and cropping by hand resumed.
This was the case at the mills at Ottewells and Bankbottom, both of which belonged to Messrs.
Abraham & John Horsfall, the father and uncle of the murdered man, and at other mills in the
neighborhood. Mr. Cartwright and some of the other owners still continued the use of the new
machinery. One night Ned had just gone to bed when he was startled by the ringing of the bell.
He leaped from his bed. He hesitated to go to the window, as it was likely enough that men
might be lying in wait to shoot him when he appeared. Seizing his pistols, therefore, he hurried
down below. A continued knocking was going on at the front entrance. It was not, however, the
noisy din which would be made by a party trying to force their way in, but rather the persistent
call of one trying to attract attention.

"Who is there?" he shouted through the door; "and what do you want?"

"Open the door, please. It is I, Polly Powlett," a voice replied. "I want to speak to you particularly,
sir.

"I have come down, sir," she said as Ned threw open the door and she entered, still panting
from her long run, "to tell you that Cartwright's mill is going to be attacked. I think some
of the Varley men are concerned in it. Anyhow, the news has got about in the village. Feyther
and Bill are both watched, and could not get away to give you the news; but feyther told me,
and I slipped out at the back door and made my way round by the moor, for they have got a guard
on the road to prevent any one passing. There is no time to spare, for they were to join a
party from Longroyd Bridge, at ten o'clock at the steeple in Sir George Armitage's fields,
which ain't more than three miles from the mill. It's half past ten now, but maybe they will
be late. I couldn't get away before, and indeed feyther only learned the particulars just as
I started. He told me to come straight to you, as you would know what to do. I said, 'Should
I go and fetch the troops?' but he said No--it would be sure to be found out who had brought
them, and our lives wouldn't be worth having. But I don't mind risking it, sir, if you think
that's the best plan."

"No, Polly; on no account. You have risked quite enough in coming to tell me. I will go straight
to Cartwright's. Do you get back as quickly as you can, and get in the same way you came. Be
very careful that no one sees you."

So saying he dashed upstairs, pulled on his shoes, and then started at full speed for Liversedge.
As he ran he calculated the probabilities of his being there in time. Had the men started exactly
at the hour named they would be by this time attacking the mill; but it was not likely that
they would be punctual--some of the hands would be sure to be late. There would be discussion
and delay before starting. They might well be half an hour after the time named before they
left the steeple, as the obelisk in Sir George Armitage's field was called by the country people.
He might be in time yet, but it would be a close thing; and had his own life depended upon
the result Ned could not have run more swiftly.

He had hopes that as he went he might have come across a cavalry patrol and sent them to Marsden
and Ottewells to bring up aid; but the road was quiet and deserted. Once or twice he paused
for an instant, thinking he heard the sound of distant musketry. He held his breath, but no
sound could he hear save the heavy thumping of his own heart.

His hopes rose as he neared Liversedge. He was close now, but as he ran into the yard he heard
a confused murmur and the dull tramping of many feet. He had won the race, but by a few seconds
only. The great stone built building lay hushed in quiet; he could see its outline against
the sky, and could even make out the great alarm bell which had recently been erected above
the roof. He ran up to the doorway and knocked heavily. The deep barking of a dog within instantly
resounded through the building. Half a minute later Mr. Cartwright's voice within demanded
who was there.

"It is I, Ned Sankey--open at once. The Luddites are upon you!"

The bolts were hastily undrawn, and Ned rushed in and assisted to fasten the door behind him.

"They will be here in a minute," he panted out. "They are just behind."

The noise had already roused the ten men who slept in the building; five of these were Mr.
Cartwright's workmen, the other five were soldiers. Hastily they threw on their clothes and
seized their arms; but they were scarcely ready when a roar of musketry was heard, mingled
with a clatter of falling glass, nearly every pane in the lower windows being smashed by the
discharge of slugs, buckshot and bullets.

This was followed by the thundering noise of a score of sledge hammers at the principal entrance
and the side doors. Mr. Cartwright and one of his workmen ran to the bell rope, and in a moment
its iron tongue was clanging out its summons for assistance to the country round. A roar of
fury broke from the Luddites; many of them fired at the bell in hopes of cutting the rope,
and the men plied their hammers more furiously than before. But the doors were tremendously
strong and were backed with plates of iron.

The defenders were not idle; all had their allotted places at the windows, and from these a
steady return was kept up in answer to the scattering fire without. Ned had caught up the gun
which Mr. Cartwright had laid down when he ran to the bell rope, and with it he kept up a steady
fire at the dark figures below.

There was a shout of "Bring up Enoch!" This was a name given to the exceedingly heavy hammers
at that time used in the Yorkshire smithies. They were manufactured by the firm of Enoch &
James Taylor, of Marsden, and were popularly known among the men by the name of their maker.
A powerful smith now advanced with one of these heavy weapons and began to pound at the door,
which, heavy as it was, shook under his blows.

Ned, regardless of the fire of the Luddites, leaned far out of the window so as to be able
to aim down at the group round the door, and fired. The gun was loaded with a heavy charge
of buckshot. He heard a hoarse shout of pain and rage, and the hammer dropped to the ground.
Another man caught up the hammer and the thundering din recommenced.

Mr. Cartwright had now joined Ned, leaving his workmen to continue to pull the bell rope.

"You had better come down, Sankey. The door must give way ere long; we must make a stand there.
If they once break in, it will soon be all up with us."

Calling together three or four of the soldiers the manufacturer hurried down to the door. They
were none too soon. The panels had already been splintered to pieces and the iron plates driven
from their bolts by the tremendous blows of the hammer, but the stout bar still stood. Through
the yawning holes in the upper part of the door the hammermen could be seen at work without.

Five guns flashed out, and yells and heavy falls told that the discharge had taken serious
effect. The hammering ceased, for the men could not face the fire. Leaving Ned and one of the
soldiers there, Mr. Cartwright hurried round to the other doors, but the assault had been less
determined there and they still resisted; then he went upstairs and renewed the firing from
the upper windows. The fight had now continued for twenty minutes, and the fire of the Luddites
was slackening; their supply of powder and ball was running short. The determined resistance,
when they had hoped to have effected an easy entrance by surprise, had discouraged them; several
had fallen and more were wounded, and at any time the soldiers might be upon them.

Those who had been forced by fear to join the association--and these formed no small part of
the whole--had long since begun to slink away quietly in the darkness, and the others now began
to follow them. The groans and cries of the wounded men added to their discomfiture, and many
eagerly seized the excuse of carrying these away to withdraw from the fight.

Gradually the firing ceased, and a shout of triumph rose from the little party in the mill
at the failure of the attack. 

APOLLO-BAMBA [1].

The town of Apollo, today capital of the province, was founded about the middle of last century
by Franciscan missionaries, who met at that point to the natives
of the nation Apollos, and formed a mission, which having been stuck
in the year 1800 to the other neighboring towns people came to compose
the province of Caupolican.

Apollo is situated in the center of a plain, slightly wavy and plant cover grasses. This plain,
bounded on the south by mountains to the valleys and their corners These are, give a very picturesque,
is five to six miles wide, and its length extends from north to south, about twelve to fourteen,
appearing one oblong. Al this is raised, similar to a wall, a large mountain that runs from north to
south, and to that of their great elevation has been called Altuncama. There is a low hill west, filed
between Apollo and the plains of Santa Catalina which come to occupy the west and southwest. The
Last Valley horizontal, which is twelve miles long on five wide, is covered part of grasslands, and
Tupili crosses the river, whose banks are adorned widths and thick forests, which so contrasted
with the rest satin, they seem to have been planted by human hands.

The village consists of three distinct groups. The first is located before moving the river, and consists
of scattered houses: in this group, called the bias of the Concepcion, is where they are established
merchants of all kinds of fruit, and whom the native inhabitants are in their particular language
Matagua name, ie outsiders. The second group located in the center and on a slight hill of red
clay is on the other side of the river, and contains the town hall, parish church and convent
of the Franciscans, whose facade that faces east, overlooking a square in which the sides
north and south are composed of several buildings, and the eastern border to the convent, a number
of houses inhabited by indigenous people: these houses, each of which has a single door and
about fifteen to twenty yards long, are placed on the hill an amphitheater, so that from the convent
is found all that happens inside of them. Such was the manner in which the Franciscans had provisions
in order to be at the sight of all the steps of the Indians, and to ensure their actions. At that time,
traders who came to the province, were forced to stay in the convent make their exchanges in the
presence of the religious. A creek separates this second part, the third group that is located
on the path of Aten, and arranged in the same order we have just seen in that.

Apollo temperature is pleasant and healthy, but let their free access plains to all the winds,
the air becomes drier than in Santa Cruz. There are grown the same fruits than in other districts,
but coca is the only important object of trade barter. Also there in Apollo as two thousand
to two thousand five hundred head of livestock, and its inhabitants were a little more industrious
and neat, would have certainly all kinds of goods in abundance. A single fact will suffice to justify
this assertion, as regards to the great procreation of the stock. An Indian named Pedro Chambi,
had met with the product fifteen cows their industry, dedicated to breeding as carefully then,
so came to multiply, it was the large number sold by him while he lived, still left in 1828,
at the end of his days, like a thousand heads. It is seen that with some care because the plains
and could easily be covered hills of livestock, both cattle and sheep, and even perhaps to
equine. It would be equally possible that Altuncama mountains, in view of his elevation, produjesen
vines and potatoes.

The draw-modified hulls some way to be both of these people, teaching them to estimate the positive
value of things, and giving an idea of ​​money. For trade in this particular have come to
know too many other objects, they were entirely ignored, and in whose possession they enjoy
today's comforts. If I had continued this trade, there is no doubt that the inhabitants of Apollo
would already well advanced in the way of a civilization, fighting relentlessly against those
who have become directors of these Indians, under the stupid pretext the business relationship
with the foreigners corrupting their morals. Although this can be verified sometimes, why not
have to deny the immense advantages which must necessarily bring get the frequency of these relationships.
The nature of these people, indigenous people all Apollos them in the nation, whose number does
not pass two thousand seven hundred and seventy-five is the most peaceful, and gentle, pleasure-loving,
looking at all the fun. The numerous festivals of Christianity, yet increased local usage,
provided they Used frequently meet to give herself the happy and playful danses, stimulated
by repeated libations of brandy, which misused by some to be deprived of reason. Such is the way go
through life without thinking of dealing, or in their future, nor in that of their children, probably
relying on the natural wealth of the country, whose products are sufficient to satisfaction of their
needs. With a lively and light, have a lot of skill to imitate as they show, so we gather all
the qualities that make them susceptible of civilized, but soon, maybe the same indigenous
Andean nations. Lack only to enable it to carry out some benevolent men, stripped of their interests
particular, want to devote to the development of intellectual faculties of these Indians and his social
education, moral governor and physically.

Apollo southeast of the town of Aten, a distance of nine miles per itinerary following:

Leagues.

                                                        Leaving Apollo, beat about the plain-Chico Bridge.

1

From here to Puente Grande. 2

And to arrive at Pampa-Tupili. 3

Go up the slope after Chímasacro-Large, 1

Then go down, it and take
the slope to Chímasacro-Chico.

1

                                                        
                                                     And he finally goes to Athens.

1

-------- TOTAL 9

SANTA CRUZ VALLEY AMENO.

Its position has made him delightful to Santa-Cruz deserve the nickname of Valle Ameno. Nothing indeed
could be more charming, more picturesque and lively than their surroundings, or that it is more
peaceful and cheerful your home. Located on a plain, on a slope scarcely perceptible leaning
to the south, and at the foot of a conical hill, this village is also surrounded by low hills,
but they will gradually rising towards the north to reach higher
to form mountains, which are topped with elegant palm trees whose
foliage mingles with the drinks giant tree more robust.

The contrast presented plains with hills covered with exquisite and varied vegetation, stream
Santa-Cruz River that runs through all of this table, scattering a healthy freshness, attends all in
order to make this place more enjoyable point of the province.

Although small, it contains only nine hundred forty-one inhabitants, some of them nation of
Apollo, the parish of Santa Cruz is very neat, and looking at its beautiful contours, easily
divert attention from the irregularity of its streets and buildings. Field surrounding it produces
in abundance all the fruits of the torrid zone, so their people are all farmers, not only collect
enough for their consumption, but they also do some trade with their abundance, for which
they put to air cure the sun the fruits of banana, cut into long strips or slices, that after
of dried apricots are transformed into eSCelente. Also prepare and coca snuff, and all these
products come to serve them to operate their exchanges, for want of money in coins, has not
yet entered it into circulation. Are active as the inhabitants of Santa Cruz in the breeding
of cattle, which is achieved with much advantage over the hills. There are times when actively
engaged in the collection of the husk, forest rover of the surrounding mountains, but found these
and so destroyed, which at present are required to run ten or twelve miles to get to find
it.

With regard to fishing and to the hunting this region is as abundant as the Pata, and natural products
are entirely the same: it has been found, however, in the forests of Santa Cruz, countless woods
of the finest cabinetry and beautiful, such as guava, granadillo, etc.

In short, if the population wanted to take advantage of all resources is surrounded, engaging more
actively, to the raising of livestock, agriculture within the land so fertile and where nature gives
you full hands treasures, to the judicious EXTRACTION graduated from the chaff and tillage, in
short, mines of gold and lead, said be in the mountains of Santa Clara, no doubt it would get
double their riches, but to this would be overcome first the natural
apathy, which leads to these indigenous people to not work but the
very measured to obtain the things necessary to existence.

Truth is also it was necessary to move and activate your ambition, a larger population and markets
exportation of more outstretched.

Santa-Cruz was a very safe place until the year 1830, which already began to feel some diseases,
hitherto unknown, and vigorously attacking the inhabitants. Today on day intermittent fevers
have settled there his domain. Some people have believed that came from this in the introduction
of trees in the hot valleys [1], but according to my observations on the province of Valle Grande
[2], I think such a change is rather due to deforestation caused by fires, where residents are
accustomed to promote each year with the aim of renewing the grass of the plains and hills. The fact
is that many places, very healthy in the past, are at present invaded by this pest destructive,
which is increasing in proportion as it extends clearing.

It is therefore the duty of the government taking a wise move to cut the progress of such
evil, and improve where possible tainted sites.

                                                         

Santa-Cruz is located west-southwest of Apollo Bamba.

To come to this place will go five leagues by the following schedule:

Leagues.

Go

up the hill of Santa Teresa. 1

                                                   He gets after it, until Huilipisa.

1

And it follows then by a plain to Bacqueria. 1

Where you have to walk for a ground well, until they came to Apollo. 2

TOTAL 5

ATEN.

This town, old mission of the Franciscans, is located amidst mountains, a hollow pretty equal, and their
houses, though regular, are scattered. The climate is hot and humid, very healthy therefore,
in spite of the rain that falls there frequently. Its culture, its production and trade are
of the same nature as in Apollo críanse also some cattle in the grassy plains of Tupili.

The number of inhabitants reaches, more or less one thousand thirty-three; these Indians belong to
a nation different from the Apollo, and speak the language Tacana, perhaps one of the most shocking
and hard, as well as the most guttural of America. His character, similar language, is irascible,
stubborn, full of arrogance, and little merry, are nevertheless more inclined to work than Apollos,
especially to agriculture and to scrutinizing raids within the forests. Each individual of this
population, as we have said elsewhere hand, is obliged to build his
own, without help from others, the house has later living with his
family, if it comes to miss the practice, probably conserved from
its savage state, is filled with shame, stripping the dignity of man.

Lavish in the extreme and friends of the show, and always longing to purchase ornaments to
spruce lucid they and their wives, no jobs, painful as they are, they are not willing to take To
obtain such satisfaction. Preferred over all other glasses and silverware, as an ornament
to place on their desks, or the strange dress, covered in gallons
embroidery and shiny, with which to go up to the processions of the
Catholic religion trying to distinguish itself from others by the
brilliance and uniqueness of such trappings.

The features of the Athenians are quite rough, with no difference in this between both sexes
have short, flat nose, too swarthy complexion, and almost all are dotted with white spots on the
body and face, helping them to look very strange.

An episode in the history of the province, particularly to Aten, will know the nature of their inhabitants
[1]. In 1811, in consequence of having been defeated by the Spanish detachment patriot army, which
under the command of General Pinelo was heading towards Cuzco La-Paz, Dr. Doll, chief secretary
and church that much credit, he took refuge with some other officers and patriots Larecaja Valley,
where he managed to influence in crowds to revolt against the Spanish people. After a long
and bitter struggle, after having fought with heroic courage in the cause of freedom and independence,
these improvised soldiers having been finally defeated by the battle-hardened troops and ordered
of the Spanish, saw himself forced to leave Larecaja Dolls, where he went, with some of their
own, by the river Iuyo to Aten. Immediately the Indians revolted and managed Athenians Apollo
seize them. The Spanish, who lost sight of him, soon soon send troops to fight. Captain D. Agustin
Gamarra was commissioned for this company; and having come to win every game to the Patriots, so
inferior in number, so little hardened, and entirely devoid of weapons, was ready for decision-Aten,
which was to crown his triumph. Twelve Athenians, led by Captain Pariaman unable stand in the
open field to a hundred soldiers to five hundred regular troops and archers, were ambushed
at the distance of a league from the village, in a dense forest [2]
which is situated on a hill there resolved to die rather than surrender
to the enemy.

After a two-hour battle, Pariaman Captain was the only one who came to save, and Gamarra, that
he was master of the field, following the custom of the Spanish, began to punish the most egregious
manner to all those he supposed to have taken up arms to join the patriot army.

Persecution increasing day by day, and each time with more rigor, an Indian named Joseph Pacha,
who was one of the most committed, proposed twenty or thirty families to abandon their homes to go
to find the best kept quiet in the forest. The migrant population away because, driven by
Pacha, looking for a venue where she could not get to be discovered; and having crossed the desert,
finally stopped in a ravine, to which he gave Irimo name: in this place, situated about twelve
or fourteen miles east of Athens, remained These Indians more than seven years without being
could discover. As the wary Pacha had Great care had to take whatever steps are necessary,
nothing was missing from the new colony. To planted cotton dress, and while men were engaged
in hunting and clearing of land, the women wove and took care of housework. Pacha, which is head
of the colony was established a very strict internal police, distributing
jobs depending on age and gender, and all work was done in common,
alternating so that one day dealing with the culture, the next went
to the game, and vice versa; so that all products were distributed
equally, as if there were more than one family.

In order not to renounce the Catholic religion, the inhabitants of this small republic built
a chapel, placing in it some images of saints, took care to bring speakers it also in their
migration. Pacha, already invested with civil powers, wanted to reunite to them the performance
of religious duties: he was the one who baptized, who sanctified marriages and burying the dead,
being at once the priest, the judge and the legislator colony. Among the stringent measures taken
by him, to avoid detection, had dictated a law which commanded them to be buried alive all those
who, under any pretext, tended to stay in touch with the people of Athens, so I could live
ignored for so long, no one would be so reckless and daring to break a law this nature, and whose
violation was bringing in so horrible after consequences.

There was, however, a circumstance that came to them after overdrawn.

It happened that a girl of thirteen years old, daughter of Manuel Cito, whose family was composed
of his wife and this one girl, having often heard of savory taste that gives salt to food, he conceived
the desire, and with this project, to procure the substance. Without their parents gird escapóse
the hamlet and taking the direction of Athens, arrived to this village, where, unseen, was
introduced in an isolated house, and seizing all salt could be found, returned to Irimo with
the proceeds of their theft. During his absence, that was three days, the caretaker boss stopped
perceiving the lack of girl practicing thousand pesquizas to know of his whereabouts, and
urging parents to closely to tell him what was hers. In the midst of these investigations are
featuring the young fugitive, and the content of their cargo is discovered that came from Athens,
where, on the other hand, she confessed to state. Pacha immediately sent to the punished to
the full rigor of the law, but at the time of execution, all the inhabitants gathered implored
his grace with such request, and the poor girl had so many protests that finally the head Gave
forgiveness. Six or seven months, entirely forgotten that he had escaped death tempted a second
excursions for the same purpose, and having done all the spy Pacha directions with strict orders
to apply the terrible punishment decreed for him, was pinned Four days later, and neither tears, nor
could soften his despair at his captors, incontinently that posed
by the horrendous ordeal of being buried alive.

The unhappy parents, overwhelmed with horror to the news of such an event, abruptly fled of Irimo,
and went to Aten to complain to the judge the awful punishment which had just suffered its daughter
thereby discovered the mansion in Pacha. Immediately ordered the authority apprehends this, which was
made so, you drove to La-Paz for trial but it took so long to execute
him, that in 1823, when the city fell to the Patriots, Pacha was seen
covered by a general pardon and could then return to his country.

Irimo still exists, and is composed of the same families, subject
to the jurisdiction this Aten civil and ecclesiastical.

Its inhabitants, the great fertility of the land enjoy all the comforts of life, under a mild,
in a delightful position.

The waters of the river to meet the Aten are Mapiri, a tributary of the Beni: at Moreover, this
is the only power center in the province that does not address the Tuyche.

PEOPLES PARTY OR SMALL INTERIOR.

Under this denomination usually meet people from inside, such as San-Jose of Chupiamonas, Tumupaza,
Cavinas Isiamas and separated all of them, vast deserts, from those just discussed. I will
therefore also describe these people, old missions, also founded, as stated above, by the Franciscan
Fathers.

SAN-JOSE DE CHUPIAMONAS.

Coming to the northeast of Apollo, and going through horrible roads full of dangers of all kinds,
in the middle of a desert without end, and after thirty-eight leagues a march excruciating,
it finally comes to St. Joseph of Chupiamonas, which takes its name a river whose waters are
reddish to meet, not far from there, the river Tuyche.

The people composed of seventy-three Indians, all similar to the Athenians, who speak the same
language, is located near the confluence of the said river which forms the Tuyche, which is so wide
at that point, it is necessary to pass it on rafts, so that people are very helpful to the travelers
and merchants, dealing in a band pass of river to the other. Because so little number of its inhabitants,
had intended to gather this population with that of Aten, but the just claims of the dealers
have made retained as an indispensable item for trade.

The San-Jose temperature is very warm, but why is there any way know diseases: their abode can
not be more pleasant, it seems that nature had pleased to pour out his gifts in uncivilized
places, with a bounty worth the promised land. The foreigner who comes to Saint Joseph is stunned
with admiration at the sight a vegetation so beautiful, and the infinite variety of fruits that abound
there. Indeed its forests offered all over the vanilla, balsam oil, Recinos, aromatic bark, gums,
wax and honey and many medicinal plants. There spontaneously Críanse the most exquisite fruits,
and including cocoa, which grows wild without being planted by bear
abundant crops everywhere.

The game offers prodigious amount of birds and quadrupeds: among
these may be mentioned the large beast, the bear-ant, the parrot-light
many deer and wild boar, and a kind of very little pigs, called on
the country Quebo-queres.

The Tuyche also abounds in fish. Finally, this extraordinarily fertile soil produces rice, maize,
cassava, peanuts, bananas, pineapples, cotton and sugarcane-sweet, but all of these productions
serve only for the consumption of the population, and in no way to trade.

TUMUPAZA.

Twelve miles northeast of San-Jose, on a small rocky hill composed of whitish and in the middle of
a horizontal field, covered with small forests or grasslands, is
old mission located Tumupaza [1], converted to this in a parish.

When the months of August, September and October, up one on the hills, warnings to the distance,
on many different points, the smoke produced no doubt by the fires of the savages, which unknown
until today live in such places as to Tumupaza surrounding fertile. This parish, It consists
of eight hundred-eighty-five souls, gathers, in regard to their crop productions and natural,
absolutely the same circumstances as St. Joseph.
These Indians, belonging to the nation tacana are well made and elegant
figure, have black hair and very fine, regular face and a pale white
complexion, her face is pleasant and expressive, and everything in
them the joy announces. Are otherwise very plain: all your dress is
a robe made of cotton fabric, which falls to them knees, and he has
only half sleeves, are always bare, and no cover head. You might have been sure I should
have honored the bill. But what made you so late last night? You were surely never out in such
a gale!"

"I was, Ned, and strange as it seems I never went in answer to a call which gave me so much
satisfaction. My dear lad, I hardly know how to tell you. I have a piece of news for you; the
greatest, the best news that man could have to tell you."

Ned drew a long breath and the color left his cheeks.

"You don't mean, doctor, you can't mean"--and he paused.

"That you are cleared, my boy. Yes; that is my news. Thank God, Ned, your innocence is proved."

Ned could not speak. For a minute he sat silent and motionless. Then he bent forward and covered
his face with his hands, and his lips moved as he murmured a deep thanksgiving to God for this
mercy, while Lucy and Charlie, with cries of surprise and delight, leaped from the table, and
when Ned rose to his feet, threw their arms round his neck with enthusiastic delight; while
the doctor wrung his hand, and then, taking out his pocket handkerchief, wiped his eyes, violently
declaring, as he did so, that he was an old fool.

"Tell me all about it, doctor. How has it happened? What has brought it about?"

"Luke Marner came down to me at ten o'clock last night to tell me that John Stukeley was dying,
which I knew very well, for when I saw him in the afternoon I saw he was sinking fast; but
he told me, too, that the man was anxious to sign a declaration before a magistrate to the
effect that it was he who killed your stepfather. I had my gig got out and hurried away to
Thompson's. The old fellow was rather crusty at being called out on such a night, but to do
him justice, I must say he went readily enough when he found what he was required for, though
it must have given him a twinge of conscience, for you know he has never been one of your partisans.
However, off we drove, and got there in time.

"Stukeley made a full confession. It all happened just as we thought. It had been determined
by the Luddites to kill Mulready, and Stukeley determined to carry out the business himself,
convinced, as he says, that the man was a tyrant and an oppressor, and that his death was not
only richly deserved, but that such a blow was necessary to encourage the Luddites. He did
not care, however, to run the risk of taking any of the others into his confidence, and therefore
carried it out alone, and to this day, although some of the others may have their suspicions,
no one knows for certain that he was the perpetrator of the act.

"He had armed himself with a pistol and went down to the mill, intending to shoot Mulready
as he came out at night, but, stumbling upon the rope, thought that it was a safer and more
certain means. After fastening it across the road he sat down and waited, intending to shoot
your stepfather if the accident didn't turn out fatal. After the crash, finding that Mulready's
neck was broken and that he was dead, he made off home. He wished it specially to be placed
on his deposition that he made his confession not from any regret at having killed Mulready,
but simply to oblige Mary Powlett, whose heart was bent upon your innocence being proved. He
signed the deposition in the presence of Thompson, myself, and Bill Swinton."

"And you think it is true, doctor, you really think it is true? It is not like Luke's attempt
to save me?"

"I am certain it is true, Ned. The man was dying, and there was no mistake about his earnestness.
There is not a shadow of doubt. I sent Swinton back in the gig with Thompson and stayed with
the man till half past two. He was unconscious then. He may linger a few hours, but will not
live out the day, and there is little chance of his again recovering consciousness. Thompson
will today send a copy of the deposition to the home secretary, with a request that it may
be made public through the newspapers. It will appear in all the Yorkshire papers next Saturday,
and all the world will know that you are innocent."

"What will my mother say?" Ned exclaimed, turning pale again.

"I don't know what she will say, my lad, but I know what she ought to say. I am going round
to Thompson's now for a copy of the deposition, and will bring it for her to see. Thompson
will read it aloud at the meeting of the court today, so by this afternoon every one will know
that you are cleared."

Abijah's joy when she heard that Ned's innocence was proved was no less than that of his brother
and sister. She would have rushed upstairs at once to tell the news to her mistress, but Ned
persuaded her not to do so until the doctor's return.

"Then he will have to be quick," Abijah said, "for if the mistress' bell rings, and I have
to go up before he comes, I shall never be able to keep it to myself. She will see it in my
face that something has happened. If the bell rings, Miss Lucy, you must go up, and if she
asks for me, say that I am particular busy, and will be up in a few minutes."

The bell, however, did not ring before the doctor's return. After a short consultation between
him and Ned, Abijah was called in.

"Mr. Sankey agrees with me, Abijah, that you had better break the news. Your mistress is more
accustomed to you than to any one else, and you understand her ways. Here is the deposition.
I shall wait below here till you come down. There is no saying how she will take it. Be sure
you break the news gently."

Abijah went upstairs with a hesitating step, strongly in contrast with her usual quick bustling
walk. She had before felt rather aggrieved that the doctor should be the first to break the
news; but she now felt the difficulty of the task, and would gladly have been spared the responsibility.

"I have been expecting you for the last quarter of an hour, Abijah," Mrs. Mulready said querulously.
"You know how I hate to have the room untidy after I have dressed.

"Why, what's the matter?". she broke off sharply as she noticed Abijah's face. "Why, you have
been crying!"

"Yes, ma'am, I have been crying," Abijah said unsteadily, "but I don't know as ever I shall
cry again, for I have heard such good news as will last me the rest of my whole life."

"What news, Abijah?" Mrs. Mulready asked quickly. "What are you making a mystery about, and
what is that paper in your hand?"

"Well, ma'am, God has been very good to us all. I knew as he would be sooner or later, though
sometimes I began to doubt whether it would be in my time, and it did break my heart to see
Maister Ned going about so pale and unnatural like for a lad like him, and to know as there
was people as thought that he was a murderer. And now, thank God, it is all over."

"All over! what do you mean, Abijah?" Mrs. Mulready exclaimed, rising suddenly from her invalid
chair.

"What do you mean by saying that it is all over?" and she seized the old nurse's arm with an
eager grasp.

"Don't excite yourself so, mistress. You have been sore tried, but it is over now, and today
all the world will know as Maister Ned is proved to be innocent. This here paper is a copy
of the confession of the man as did it, and who is, they say, dead by this time. It was taken
all right and proper afore a magistrate."

"Innocent!" Mrs. Mulready gasped in a voice scarcely above a whisper. "Did you tell me, Abijah,
that my boy, my boy Ned, is innocent?"

"I never doubted as he was innocent, ma'am; but now, thank God, all the world will know it.
There, ma'am, sit yourself down. Don't look like that. I know as how you must feel, but for
mercy sake don't look like that."

Mrs. Mulready did not seem to hear her, did not seem to notice, as she passively permitted
herself to be seated in the chair, while Abijah poured out a glass of wine. Her face was pale
and rigid, her eyes wide open, her expression one of horror rather than relief.

"Innocent! Proved innocent!" she murmured. "What must he think of me--me, his mother!"

For some time she sat looking straight before her, taking no notice of the efforts of Abijah
to call her attention, and unheeding the glass of wine which she in vain pressed her to drink.

"I must go away," she said at last, rising suddenly. "I must go away at once. Has he gone yet?"

"Go away, ma'am! Why, what should you go away for, and where are you going?"

"It does not matter; it makes no difference," Mrs. Mulready said feverishly, "so that I get
away. Put some of my things together, Abijah. What are you staring there for? Don't you hear
what I say? I must go away directly he has started for the mill."

And with trembling fingers she began to open her drawers and pull out her clothes.

"But you can't go away like that, mistress. You can't, indeed," Abijah said, aghast.

"I must go, Abijah. There is nothing else for me to do. Do you think I could see him after
treating him as I have done? I should fall dead at his feet for shame."

"But where are you going, ma'am?" Abijah said, thinking it better not to attempt to argue with
her in her present state.

"I don't know, I don't know. Yes, I do. Do you know whether that cottage you were telling me
about where you lived while you were away from here, is to let? That will do nicely, for there
I should be away from every one. Get me a box from the lumber room, and tell Harriet to go
out and get me a post chaise from the Red Lion as soon as my son has gone to the mill."

"Very well," Abijah said. "I will do as you want me, 'm, if you will sit down quiet and not
excite yourself. You know you have not been out of your room for a year, and if you go a-tiring
yourself like this you will never be able to stand the journey. You sit down in the chair and
I will do the packing for you. You can tell me what things you will take with you. I will get
the box down."

So saying, Abijah left the room, and, running hastily downstairs, told Ned and the doctor the
manner in which Mrs. Mulready had received the news. Ned, would have run up at once to his
mother, but Dr. Green would not hear of it.

"It would not do, Ned. In your mother's present state the shock of seeing you might have the
worst effect. Run up, Abijah, and get the box down to her. I will go out and come back and
knock at the door in two or three minutes, and will go up and see her, and, if necessary. I
will give her a strong soothing draught. You had better tell her that from what you hear you
believe Mr. Sankey is not going to the mill today. That will make her delay her preparations
for moving until tomorrow, and will give us time to see what is best to be done."

"I have brought the box, mistress," Abijah said as she entered Mrs. Mulready's room; "but I
don't think as you will want to pack today, for I hear as Mr. Ned ain't a-going to the mill.
You see all the town will be coming to see him to shake hands with him and tell him how glad
they is that he is cleared."

"And only I can't!" Mrs. Mulready wailed. "To think of it, only I, his mother, can't see him!
And I must stop in the house for another day! Oh! it is too hard! But I deserve it, and everything
else."

"There is Dr. Green's knock," Abijah said.

"I can't see him, Abijah. I can't see him."

"I think you had better see him, ma'am. You always do see him, you know, and it will look so
strange if you don't. There, I will pop these things into the drawers again and hide the box."

Abijah bustled about actively, and before Mrs. Mulready had time to take any decided step Dr.
Green knocked at the door and came in.

"How are you today, Mrs. Mulready?" he asked cheerfully. "This is a joyful day indeed for us
all. The whole place is wild with the news, and I expect we shall be having a deputation presently
to congratulate Ned."

"I am not feeling very well," Mrs. Mulready said faintly. "The shock has been too much for me."

"Very natural, very natural, indeed," Dr. Green said cheerily. "We could hardly hope it would
be otherwise; but after this good news I expect we shall soon make a woman of you again. Your
son will be the most popular man in the place. People will not know how to make enough of him.
Porson and I, who have been cheering him all along, will have to snub him now or his head will
be turned. Now let me feel your pulse. Dear! dear! this will not do at all; it's going like
a mill engine. This will never do. If you do not calm yourself we shall be having you in bed
again for a long bout. I will send you a bottle of soothing medicine. You must take it every
two hours, and keep yourself perfectly quiet. There, I will not talk to you now about this
good news, for I see that you are not fit to stand it. You must lie down on the sofa at once,
and not get off again today. I will look in this evening and see how you are."

Frightened at the threat that if she were not quiet she might be confined to her bed for weeks;
Mrs. Mulready obeyed orders, took her medicine when it arrived, and lay quiet on the sofa.
For a long time the sedative failed to have any effect. Every five minutes throughout the day
there were knocks at the door. Every one who knew Ned, and many who did not, called to congratulate
him. Some, like Mr. Thompson, made a half apology for having so long doubted him. A few, like
Mr. Simmonds, were able heartily to assure him that they had never in their hearts believed it.

Ned was too full of gratitude and happiness to cherish the slightest animosity, and he received
warmly and thankfully the congratulations which were showered upon him.

"He looks another man," was the universal comment of his visitors; and, indeed, it was so.
The cloud which had so long overshadowed him had passed away, and the look of cold reserve
had vanished with it, and he was prepared again to receive the world as a friend.

He was most moved when, early in the day, Mr. Porson and the whole of the boys arrived. As
soon as he had left Mrs. Mulready, Dr. Green had hurried down to the schoolhouse with the news,
and Mr. Porson, as soon as he heard it, had announced it from his desk, adding that after such
news as that he could not expect them to continue their lessons, and that the rest of the day
must therefore be regarded as a holiday. He yielded a ready assent when the boys entreated
that they might go in a body to congratulate Ned.

Ned was speechless for some time as his old friend wrung his hand, and his former schoolfellows
clustered round him with a very Babel of congratulations and good wishes. Only the knowledge
that his mother was ill above prevented them from breaking into uproarious cheering. 

Began again his song girls, but on reaching that of

    
    Only you, divine woman
    will pray a prayer in my lonely grave, and so on.

Pablito let out another loud and deafening screech.

Return to laughter. Venturita became serious.

- Look, Paul, if you continue to do silly, you better go with Pisces.

Pablito turn gets dull.

- I'll go when I want.

Always be you that spoil everything!

He meant the young Belinchón that only his sister insisted on ignoring Ventura the ingenuity
with which heaven had given him. And it was true. All the others laughed jubilant, as if,
instead of a screech just heard a passage from Rabelais. Dona Paula, who had admiration for
his eldest son idolatrous, and yet kept a grudge against her daughter
by her answers, though it is largely paid for her beauty, wine that
aid.

- You're right Paul.

Whenever you have to spoil every party! ... Jesus what creature! ... The he is the man to take
you, fat is a sin to purge.

At that time appeared in the doorway of the room Gonzalo, who is bent like a bow to shake hands with
his future mother, and Cecilia Ventura.

This was serious.

Without turning head toward them, warned that all the seamstresses
looked out of the corner of the eye.

He saw thought the hint of a smile forming on their faces.

The same thing happened every day. Before arriving Gonzalo, seamstresses
were pleased to direct, whenever he came to mind, a dig at the bride.

-
Cecilia, which of these shirts you are putting on the wedding day?

It
should be noted that some of them have met the tuteaban for girls.
Very often in the villages.

- Miss, in these sheets so thin you will
slip.

- It is not slipping and alone. Right, Cecilia?

- Anda, mischievous,
good-looking that you get!

- Do not be so handsome Venturita.

-
Who knows - it replied.

Ned did not carry out his original intention of entering the army. Mr. Simmonds warmly offered
to make the application for a commission for him, but Ned declined. He had made up his mind,
he said, to stick to the mill; there was plenty of work to be done there, and he foresaw that
with a continued improvement of machinery there was a great future for the manufacturing interests
of England.

The Luddite movement gradually died out. The high rewards offered for the discovery of the
murderers of Mr. Horsfall and of the assailants of Cartwright's mill had their effect. Three
croppers, Mellor, Thorpe and Smith, were denounced and brought to trial. All three had been
concerned in the murder, together with Walker, who turned king's evidence for the reward--Mellor
and Thorpe having fired the fatal shots. The same men had been the leaders in the attack on
Cartwright's mill.

They were tried at the assizes at York on the 2d of January, 1813, with sixty-four of their
comrades, before Baron Thomas and Judge Le Blanc, and were found guilty, although they were
defended by Henry (afterward Lord) Brougham. 

If time Moxos growing province, flooded almost everywhere, shape, say, a single sheet of water
in the dry season the plains are lean, and only on the parts are more sunken floor, many wetlands,
particularly east and west of the province, but many lakes are permanent. Can include certain
however:

Chitiopa Lagoon, which is located far above the Carmen, in the same header White River, which
gives rise accordingly. Anyhow from that time the Luddite conspiracy
ceased to be formidable.

The Sankeys' mill at Marsden flourished greatly under Ned's management. Every year saw additions
to the buildings and machinery until it became one of the largest concerns in Yorkshire. 

VI

WHICH TEAM IS CECILIA

In the abode of the Belinchón had begun
preparations for wedding.

First, very reserve, Dona Paula Nieves did come to the embroiderer,
and held a long conference with her behind closed doors.

Samples are then asked to Madrid. A few days later, that lady, accompanied by Cecilia and Pablito,
made a trip to the capital of the province, in the family of the house. The spook of Dona Petra,
sister of Don Feliciano Gomez, who went by Rua New alighted while Dona Paula and her children, she
observed the valet pulled the car a portion of packages, it wanted pieces of cloth. Enough
so that everyone knew Sarrió at home of Don Rosendo is already working on the computer of the
eldest daughter. Dona Paula, provided reason, had a suffocation. Snow blamed. It protested that
he had not left word some of his lips. Dona Paula insisted. Cried the embroidery. In short, a disappointment.

Well,
everything had been discovered, no mufflers, and hairs to sea. Constituyóse in back room, which
overlooked the street Caborana, workshop or office linen under senior management of Dona Paula, and
immediate Nieves. It consisted of four officers the two daughters
of the house as household chores are allowed, and Venturita it Cecilia.

It was a boisterous youth, which, active work did not stop talking, laugh and sing all day.
 Ned used to tell
her that she grew younger looking every day. Her pride and happiness in her son were unbounded,
and these culminated when, ten years after his accession to the management of the mill, Ned
acceded to the request of a large number of manufacturers in the district, to stand for Parliament
as the representative of the mill owning interest, and was triumphantly returned at the head
of the poll.

Of the other characters of this story little need be said. Dr. Green and Mr. and Mrs. Porson
remained Ned's closest friends to the end of their lives.

Mary Powlett did not compel Bill Swinton to wait until the situation of foreman of the mill
became vacant, but married him two years after the death of John Stukeley. Bill became in time
not only foreman but the confidential manager of the mill, and he and his wife were all their
lives on the footing of dear friends with Mr. and Mrs. Sankey.

Luke Marner remained foreman of his room until too old for further work, when he retired on
a comfortable pension, and was succeeded in his post by his son George. Ned and Amy Sankey
had a large family, who used to listen with awe and admiration to the tale of the terrible
trial which had once befallen their father, and of the way in which he had indeed been "tried
in the fire."

THE END

