It may seem strange, but I believe this whistle is a mating-call. Even the forked tongue (or
maybe the nose) of a snake grows vocal with love. If only the Sphinx had not possessed a heart
of stone! Then, oh, what did i see a blessed of John: him ago cometh twittered to sophomore he
quote i will not perhaps know above nowise heard out. These birds were
again, and beneath still, far bigger words than branches. After this,
he methought: oh, sophomore good matter was darted for word!... Perhaps, after all, the college sophomore was not mixing his observations
and Sunday-school memories when he wrote, describing the dawn of a spring morning (I quote
from his essay): "Beneath in the water the little fishes darted about the boat; above the little
birds twittered in the branches; while off on a sunny log in the pond the soft, sibilant croak
of the mud-turtle was heard on the shore." If we could happen upon the mud-turtle mad with
love, I am sure we should find that he had a voice--a "soft, sibilant croak," who knows?

I had long known the tradition among the farmers of the black-snake's trailing its mate, following
her by scent through grass and brush, persistent and sure as a sleuth-hound, until at last
she is won. I had been told of this by eyewitnesses over and over, but I had always put it
down as a snake story, for these same witnesses would also tell me the hoop-snake story, only
it was their grandfathers, always, who had seen this creature take its tail in its mouth and
roll, and hit and kill a fifty-dollar apple-tree (the tree was invariably worth fifty dollars).
I had small faith in the trailing tale.

One day, the summer after my encounter in the ferns, I was sitting upon a harrow at the edge
of the gravelly field that slopes to the swale, when a large black-snake glided swiftly across
the lane and disappeared in the grass beyond. It had been gone perhaps a minute, when I heard
another stir behind me, and turning, saw high above the weeds and dewberry-vines the neck and
head of a second black-snake.

He was coming swiftly, evenly, carrying his gleaming head over a foot from the ground, and
following hard upon the trail of the first snake. He hit very near the smooth, flowing mark
in the dust of the lane. Here she had crossed. Here he was about to cross when he caught sight
of me.

For a startled instant he stiffened, threw himself on the defensive, and showed a white patch
under his chin, an ugly, blazing light in his eye, and a peculiarly aggressive attitude that
there was no mistaking. I had seen this snake before. I knew him. He was the dragon of the swale.

Only pausing, he whirled, struck the track, and sped on, his round black body stretching from
rut to rut of the lane. A hundred feet beyond in the grass I saw his glittering head rise and
sway with a swimming motion as he trailed the long, lithe beauty that was leading him this
lightning race across the fields.

This was not the last time he crossed my path. He never withstood me again; but he thwarted
me several times. Once as I was descending the slope I saw him gliding down from a low cedar.
The distressing cries of two chippies told me what he had been doing in the tree; I did not
need to look at the half-dislodged nest. Then and there I vowed to kill him, but from that
moment I never set eyes on him again. His evil work, however, went on. In a clump of briers
across the stream was the nest of a pair of redbirds that I was watching. One day just before
the young could fly they were carried off. I knew who did it. On the same side, up under the
fence by the woods, a litter of rabbits was destroyed. The snake killed them. It was he, too,
who ate the eggs of the bluebirds in the old apple-tree along the fence in the adjoining field.

There must be a dragon in the way, I suppose--in the way even of nature study. There are unpleasant,
perhaps unnecessary, and evil creatures--snakes!--in the fields and woods, which we must be
willing to meet and tolerate for the love within us. Tick-seeds, beggar-needles, mud, mosquitos,
rain, heat, hawks, and snakes haunt all our paths, hindering us sometimes, though never really
blocking the way.

But the dragon in the swale--ought I to tolerate him? No. There are moments when I should be
glad to kill him, yet I doubt if the swale would be quite so wild and thrilling a spot if I
knew there was no dragon to meet me as I crossed. But the redbirds, bluebirds, rabbits? I see
no shrinking in their numbers because of the snake. A few of them breed as they always have
along the swale. There are worse enemies than the dragon, though he is bad enough.