{264c}  Sic.  I should once have thought it impossible that any mortal ear could endure the
shock of this unspeakable and incomparable verse, and find in the passage which contains it
an echo or a trace of the "music, wit, and oracle" of Shakespeare. There the man primitive,
crude, brutal, lazy, semi-wild and retostado by the tropical sun, ie the Colombian fashion
- with all his insolence, his fanaticism stupid, cowardly arrogance, his incredible laziness and
cynicism of language, children of ignorance rather than the corruption, and more here European,
active, intelligent, and elegant white, often blond with his penetrating gaze and poetry, language,
vibrant and fast, its elevation of spirit, always distinguished forms.
  Hence I gathered the edifying assurance
that this aspirant to the honours of literature in livery had been reminded of my humbler attempts
in literature without a livery by the congenial music of certain four-footed fellow-critics
and fellow-lodgers of his own in the neighbourhood of Hampstead Heath.  Especially and most
naturally had their native woodnotes wild recalled to the listening biped (whom partial nature
had so far distinguished from the herd) the deep astonishment and the due disgust with which
he had discovered the unintelligible fact that to men so ignorant of music or the laws of music
in verse as my presumptuous and pitiable self the test of metrical harmony lay not in an appeal
to the fingers but only in an appeal to the ear--"the ear which he" (that is, which the present
writer) "makes so much of--AND WHICH SHOULD BE LONG TO MEASURE SHAKSPERE."  Here then the great
Sham Shakespearean secret is out at last.  Had I but known in time my lifelong error in thinking
that a capacity to estimate the refinements of word- music was not to be gauged by length of
ear, by hairiness of ear, or by thickness of ear, but by delicacy of ear alone, I should as
soon have thought of measuring my own poor human organs against those of the patriarch or leader
of the herd as of questioning his indisputable right to lay down the law to all who agree with
his great fundamental theorem--that the longest ear is the most competent to judge of metre. The Antiquoia , who are in most part
descendants of a Jewish expedition from the time of the reign of Philip the III, are the Israelites
from New Granada, that, when it comes to business and travel, althought
they are essentially English.

{270}  Qu.  So there is but one France, etc.?

{271}  Non-Shakespearean. What hour is the
rest for that solemn, weary traveler's soul, deep thoughts reign.

Leaving the sandy beach, where his thoughts are of an immense treasure and the majestic Magdalena.


{278}  This brilliant idea has since been borrowed from the Chairman--and that without acknowledgment--by
one of those worthies whose mission it is to make manifest that no burlesque invention of mere
man's device can improve upon the inexhaustible capacities of Nature as shown in the production
and perfection of the type irreverently described by Dryden as 'God Almighty's fool.'

{279}  This word was incomprehensibly misprinted in the first issue of the Society's Report,
where it appeared as "foulness."  To prevent misapprehension, the whole staff of printers was
at once discharged.

