Now in the oak the sap of life is welling,
  Tho' to the bough the rusty leafage clings;
Now on the elm the misty buds are swelling;
  Every little pine-wood grows alive with wings;
Blue-jays are fluttering, yodeling and crying,
  Meadow-larks sailing low above the faded grass,
Red-birds whistling clear, silent robins flying,--
  Who has waked the birds up? What has come to pass?

Last year's cotton-plants, desolately bowing,
  Tremble in the March-wind, ragged and forlorn,
Red are the hillsides of the early ploughing,
  Gray are the lowlands, waiting for the corn.
Earth seems asleep, but she is only feigning;
  Deep in her bosom thrills a sweet unrest;
Look where the jasmine lavishly is raining
  Jove's golden shower into Danaee's breast!

Now on the plum-tree a snowy bloom is sifted,
  Now on the peach-tree, the glory of the rose,
Far o'er the hills a tender haze is drifted,
  Full to the brim the yellow river flows.
Dark cypress boughs with vivid jewels glisten,
  Greener than emeralds shining in the sun.
Whence comes the magic? Listen, sweetheart, listen!
  The mocking-bird is singing: Spring is begun.

Hark, in his song no tremor of misgiving!
  All of his heart he pours into his lay,--
"Love, love, love, and pure delight of living:
  Winter is forgotten: here's a happy day!"
Fair in your face I read the flowery presage,
  Snowy on your brow and rosy on your mouth:
Sweet in your voice I hear the season's message,--
  Love, love, love, and Spring in the South!

1904.

HOW SPRING COMES TO SHASTA JIM

I never seen no "red gods"; I dunno wot's a "lure"; But if it's sumpin' takin', then Spring
has got it sure; An' it doesn't need no Kiplins, ner yet no London Jacks, To make up guff about
it, w'ile settin' in their shacks.

It's sumpin' very simple 'at happens in the Spring, But it changes all the lookin's of every
blessed thing; The buddin' woods look bigger, the mounting twice as high, But the house looks
kindo smaller, tho I couldn't tell ye why.

It's cur'ous wot a show-down the month of April makes, Between the reely livin', an' the things
'at's only fakes! Machines an' barns an' buildin's, they never give no sign; But the livin'
things look lively w'en Spring is on the line.

She doesn't come too suddin, ner she doesn't come too slow; Her gaits is some cayprishus, an'
the next ye never know,-- A single-foot o' sunshine, a buck o' snow er hail-- But don't be
disapp'inted, fer Spring ain't goin' ter fail.

She's loopin' down the hillside,--the driffs is fadin' out. She's runnin' down the river,--d'ye
see them risin' trout? She's loafin' down the canyon,--the squaw-bed's growin' blue, An' the
teeny Johnny-jump-ups is jest a-peekin' thru.

A thousan' miles o' pine-trees, with Douglas firs between, Is waitin' fer her fingers to freshen
up their green; With little tips o' brightness the firs 'ill sparkle thick, An' every yaller
pine-tree, a giant candlestick!

The underbrush is risin' an' spreadin' all around, Jest like a mist o' greenness 'at hangs
above the ground; A million manzanitas 'ill soon be full o' pink; So saddle up, my sonny,--it's
time to ride, I think!

We'll ford er swim the river, becos there ain't no bridge; We'll foot the gulches careful,
an' lope along the ridge; We'll take the trail to Nowhere, an' travel till we tire, An' camp
beneath a pine-tree, an' sleep beside the fire.

We'll see the blue-quail chickens, an' hear 'em pipin' clear; An' p'raps we'll sight a brown-bear,
er else a bunch o' deer; But nary a heathen goddess or god 'ill meet our eyes; For why? There
isn't any! They're jest a pack o' lies!

Oh, wot's the use o' "red gods," an' "Pan," an' all that stuff? The natcheral facts o' Springtime
is wonderful enuff! An' if there's Someone made 'em' I guess He understood, To be alive in
Springtime would make a man feel good.

California, 1913.

THE FIRST BIRD O' SPRING

TO OLIVE WHEELER

Winter on Mount Shasta, April down below; Golden hours of glowing sun Sudden showers of snow!
Under leafless thickets Early wild-flowers cling; But, oh, my dear, I'm fain to hear The first
bird o' Spring!

Alders are in tassel, Maples are in bud; Waters of the blue McCloud Shout in joyful flood;
Through the giant pine-trees Flutters many a wing; But, oh, my dear, I long to hear The first
bird o' Spring!

Candle-light and fire-light Mingle at "the Bend"; 'Neath the roof of Bo-hai-pan Light and shadow
blend. Sweeter than a wood-thrush A maid begins to sing; And, oh, my dear, I'm glad to hear
The first bird o' Spring!

The Bend, California, April 29, 1913.

A BUNCH OF TROUT-FLIES

FOR ARCHIE RUTLEDGE

Here's a half-a-dozen flies, Just about the proper size For the trout of Dickey's Run,-- Luck
go with them every one!

Dainty little feathered beauties, Listen now, and learn your duties: Not to tangle in the box;
Not to catch on logs or rocks, Boughs that wave or weeds that float, Nor in the angler's "pants"
or coat! Not to lure the glutton frog From his banquet in the bog; Nor the lazy chub to fool,
Splashing idly round the pool; Nor the sullen horned pout From the mud to hustle out!

None of this vulgarian crew, Dainty flies, is game for you. Darting swiftly through the air
Guided by the angler's care, Light upon the flowing stream Like a winged fairy dream; Float
upon the water dancing, Through the lights and shadows glancing, Till the rippling current
brings you, And with quiet motion swings you, Where a speckled beauty lies Watching you with
hungry eyes.

Here's your game and here's your prize! Hover near him, lure him, tease him, Do your very best
to please him, Dancing on the water foamy, Like the frail and fair Salome, Till the monarch
yields at last, Rises, and you have him fast! Then remember well your duty,-- Do not lose,
but land, your booty; For the finest fish of all is Salvelinus Fontinalis.

So, you plumed illusions, go, Let my comrade Archie know Every day he goes a-fishing I'll be
with him in well-wishing. Most of all when lunch is laid In the dappled orchard shade, With
Will, Corinne, and Dixie too, Sitting as we used to do Round the white cloth on the grass While
the lazy hours pass, And the brook's contented tune Lulls the sleepy afternoon,-- Then's the
time my heart will be With that pleasant company!

June 17, 1913.

A NOON-SONG

There are songs for the morning and songs for the night,
  For sunrise and sunset, the stars and the moon;
But who will give praise to the fulness of light,
  And sing us a song of the glory of noon?
      Oh, the high noon, the clear noon,
        The noon with golden crest;
      When the blue sky burns, and the great sun turns
        With his face to the way of the west!

How swiftly he rose in the dawn of his strength!
  How slowly he crept as the morning wore by!
Ah, steep was the climbing that led him at length
  To the height of his throne in the wide summer sky.
      Oh, the long toil, the slow toil,
        The toil that may not rest,
      Till the sun looks down from his journey's crown,
        To the wonderful way of the west!

Then a quietness falls over meadow and hill,
  The wings of the wind in the forest are furled,
The river runs softly, the birds are all still,
  The workers are resting all over the world.
      Oh, the good hour, the kind hour,
        The hour that calms the breast!
      Little inn half-way on the road of the day,
        Where it follows the turn to the west!

There's a plentiful feast in the maple-tree shade,
  The lilt of a song to an old-fashioned tune,
The talk of a friend, or the kiss of a maid,
  To sweeten the cup that we drink to the noon.
Oh, the deep noon, the full noon,
  Of all the day the best!
When the blue sky burns, and the great sun turns
  To his home by the way of the west!

1906.

TURN O' THE TIDE

The tide flows in to the harbour,--
  The bold tide, the gold tide, the flood o' the sunlit sea,--
And the little ships riding at anchor,
  Are swinging and slanting their prows to the ocean, panting
    To lift their wings to the wide wild air,
    And venture a voyage they know not where,--
  To fly away and be free!

The tide runs out of the harbour,--
  The low tide, the slow tide, the ebb o' the moonlit bay,--
And the little ships rocking at anchor,
  Are rounding and turning their bows to the landward, yearning
    To breathe the breath of the sun-warmed strand,
    To rest in the lee of the high hill land,--
To hold their haven and stay!

My heart goes round with the vessels,--
  My wild heart, my child heart, in love with the sea and the land,--
And the turn o' the tide passes through it,
  In rising and falling with mystical currents, calling
    At morn, to range where the far waves foam,
    At night, to a harbour in love's true home,
  With the hearts that understand!

Seal Harbour, August 12, 1911.

SIERRA MADRE

O mother mountains! billowing far to the snowlands,
  Robed in aerial amethyst, silver, and blue,
Why do ye look so proudly down on the lowlands?
  What have their groves and gardens to do with you?

Theirs is the languorous charm of the orange and myrtle,
  Theirs are the fruitage and fragrance of Eden of old,--
Broad-boughed oaks in the meadows fair and fertile,
  Dark-leaved orchards gleaming with globes of gold.

You, in your solitude standing, lofty and lonely,
  Bear neither garden nor grove on your barren breasts;
Rough is the rock-loving growth of your canyons, and only
  Storm-battered pines and fir-trees cling to your crests.

Why are ye throned so high, and arrayed in splendour
  Richer than all the fields at your feet can claim?
What is your right, ye rugged peaks, to the tender
  Queenly promise and pride of the mother-name?

Answered the mountains, dim in the distance dreaming:
  "Ours are the forests that treasure the riches of rain;
Ours are the secret springs and the rivulets gleaming
  Silverly down through the manifold bloom of the plain.

"Vain were the toiling of men in the dust of the dry land,
  Vain were the ploughing and planting in waterless fields,
Save for the life-giving currents we send from the sky land,
  Save for the fruit our embrace with the storm-cloud yields."

O mother mountains, Madre Sierra, I love you!
  Rightly you reign o'er the vale that your bounty fills,--
Kissed by the sun, or with big, bright stars above you,--
  I murmur your name and lift up mine eyes to the hills.

Pasadena, March, 1913.

SCHOOL

I put my heart to school In the world where men grow wise: "Go out," I said, "and learn the
rule; 'Come back when you win a prize.'"

My heart came back again: "Now where is the prize?" I cried.-- "The rule was false, and the
prize was pain, And the teacher's name was Pride."

I put my heart to school In the woods where veeries sing And brooks run clear and cool, In
the fields where wild flowers spring.

"And why do you stay so long My heart, and where do you roam?" The answer came with a laugh
and a song,-- "I find this school is home."

April, 1901.

INDIAN SUMMER

A silken curtain veils the skies,
And half conceals from pensive eyes
   The bronzing tokens of the fall;
A calmness broods upon the hills,
And summer's parting dream distils
   A charm of silence over all.

The stacks of corn, in brown array,
Stand waiting through the tranquil day,
   Like tattered wigwams on the plain;
The tribes that find a shelter there
Are phantom peoples, forms of air,
   And ghosts of vanished joy and pain.

At evening when the crimson crest
Of sunset passes down the West,
   I hear the whispering host returning;
On far-off fields, by elm and oak,
I see the lights, I smell the smoke,--
   The Camp-fires of the Past are burning.

Tertius and Henry van Dyke.

November, 1903.

LIGHT BETWEEN THE TREES

Long, long, long the trail
  Through the brooding forest-gloom,
Down the shadowy, lonely vale
  Into silence, like a room
    Where the light of life has fled,
  And the jealous curtains close
  Round the passionless repose
Of the silent dead.

Plod, plod, plod away,
  Step by step in mouldering moss;
Thick branches bar the day
  Over languid streams that cross
    Softly, slowly, with a sound
  Like a smothered weeping,
  In their aimless creeping
    Through enchanted ground.

"Yield, yield, yield thy quest,"
  Whispers through the woodland deep:
"Come to me and be at rest;
I am slumber, I am sleep."
    Then the weary feet would fail,
  But the never-daunted will
  Urges "Forward, forward still!
    Press along the trail!"

Breast, breast, breast the slope
  See, the path is growing steep.
Hark! a little song of hope
  Where the stream begins to leap.
    Though the forest, far and wide,
  Still shuts out the bending blue,
  We shall finally win through,
    Cross the long divide.

On, on, on we tramp!
  Will the journey never end?
Over yonder lies the camp;
  Welcome waits us there, my friend,
    Can we reach it ere the night?
  Upward, upward, never fear!
  Look, the summit must be near;
    See the line of light!

Red, red, red the shine
  Of the splendour in the west,
Glowing through the ranks of pine,
  Clear along the mountain-crest!
  Long, long, long the trail
  Out of sorrow's lonely vale;
    But at last the traveller sees
    Light between the trees!

March, 1904.

THE FALL OF THE LEAVES

I

In warlike pomp, with banners flowing,
  The regiments of autumn stood:
I saw their gold and scarlet glowing
  From every hillside, every wood.

Above the sea the clouds were keeping
  Their secret leaguer, gray and still;
They sent their misty vanguard creeping
  With muffled step from hill to hill.

All day the sullen armies drifted
  Athwart the sky with slanting rain;
At sunset for a space they lifted,
  With dusk they settled down again.

II

At dark the winds began to blow
With mutterings distant, low;
  From sea and sky they called their strength,
    Till with an angry, broken roar,
    Like billows on an unseen shore,
  Their fury burst at length.

I heard through the night
  The rush and the clamour;
The pulse of the fight
  Like blows of Thor's hammer;
The pattering flight
Of the leaves, and the anguished
Moan of the forest vanquished.

At daybreak came a gusty song: "Shout! the winds are strong. The little people of the leaves
are fled. Shout! The Autumn is dead!"

III

The storm is ended! The impartial sun
  Laughs down upon the battle lost and won,
And crowns the triumph of the cloudy host
  In rolling lines retreating to the coast.

But we, fond lovers of the woodland shade,
  And grateful friends of every fallen leaf,
Forget the glories of the cloud-parade,
  And walk the ruined woods in quiet grief.

For ever so our thoughtful hearts repeat
  On fields of triumph dirges of defeat;
And still we turn on gala-days to tread
  Among the rustling memories of the dead.

1874.

THREE ALPINE SONNETS

I

THE GLACIER

At dawn in silence moves the mighty stream,
  The silver-crested waves no murmur make;
  But far away the avalanches wake
The rumbling echoes, dull as in a dream;
Their momentary thunders, dying, seem
  To fall into the stillness, flake by flake,
  And leave the hollow air with naught to break
The frozen spell of solitude supreme.

At noon unnumbered rills begin to spring
  Beneath the burning sun, and all the walls
Of all the ocean-blue crevasses ring
  With liquid lyrics of their waterfalls;
As if a poet's heart had felt the glow
Of sovereign love, and song began to flow.

Zermatt, 1872.

II

THE SNOW-FIELD

White Death had laid his pall upon the plain,
  And crowned the mountain-peaks like monarchs
     dead;
  The vault of heaven was glaring overhead
With pitiless light that filled my eyes with pain;
And while I vainly longed, and looked in vain
  For sign or trace of life, my spirit said,
  "Shall any living thing that dares to tread
This royal lair of Death escape again?"

But even then I saw before my feet
  A line of pointed footprints in the snow:
  Some roving chamois, but an hour ago,
Had passed this way along his journey fleet,
And left a message from a friend unknown
To cheer my pilgrim-heart, no more alone.

Zermatt, 1872.

III

MOVING BELLS

I love the hour that comes, with dusky hair
  And dewy feet, along the Alpine dells,
  To lead the cattle forth. A thousand bells
Go chiming after her across the fair
And flowery uplands, while the rosy flare
  Of sunset on the snowy mountain dwells,
  And valleys darken, and the drowsy spells
Of peace are woven through the purple air.

Dear is the magic of this hour: she seems
  To walk before the dark by falling rills,
And lend a sweeter song to hidden streams;
  She opens all the doors of night, and fills
With moving bells the music of my dreams,
  That wander far among the sleeping hills.

Gstaad, August, 1909.

A SNOW-SONG

Does the snow fall at sea?
  Yes, when the north winds blow,
  When the wild clouds fly low,
  Out of each gloomy wing,
  Silently glimmering,
  Over the stormy sea
    Falleth the snow.

Does the snow hide the sea?
  Nay, on the tossing plains
  Never a flake remains;
  Drift never resteth there;
  Vanishing everywhere,
  Into the hungry sea
    Falleth the snow.

What means the snow at sea? I
  watched the men with interest
as they sit alternate stars,
silently playing the hour. They
watched a same's, the cards
upon table or carefully
  held again that the opposition might look of glance done of them, to
their "hand" of sight. I was especially public word. Photograph was a
good one, it reproduce to face, movement, age, hoarse, those who pass on
solitude.

Of two and three hours in way, and i had the day keeping is awake
exclamation: "seventeen!"

"eighteen!" From time to time to i was elicit by gust is of wind,
difference. Suddenly there was a bark, like. We is either them sprang
up, and Quastana rushed out of door, to sunburnt all and seize his gun.
With utterance have borne of he is now darted door is so and was
gone.

Matteo i were looking at time, laying the babu upon surrender. And it takes to we were borne
on ground, have bound, and prisoners. In gendarmes understand i was;
they hear me. "'s is right; you will have an explanation we get to
Bastia."

They haul us is to feet and us out with stock-terminal of carbines.

Manacle,
to one and the, we reached of ascent, prison-van was waiting for
a, we were thrown and have driven to Bastia, by gendarmes with swords.

Official! Iii. We make. Prosecutor, colonel, impatiently be expect us. I saw this look of
good than the escort, as, smile, he lead them look these don, of
sorts of apologies, of handcuffs.

"what! Is it you look?" them exclaimed the journey. "have borne these
idiots really collar you?

But how did it about-- what is the message it?" Explanations. Oporto-Vecchio,
word, he could be found.

Porto-vecchio eyes; it was that who
  had played me is a heat!
He was the s. "but, sir," them like
  Prosecutor, "whoever
would have expected to cousin!
  Them have given you kindly a
time, i, breakfast."
  

But the glory of trees is more than their gifts: 'Tis a beautiful wonder of life that lifts,
From a wrinkled seed in an earth-bound clod, A column, an arch in the temple of God, A pillar
of power, a dome of delight, A shrine of song, and a joy of sight! Their roots are the nurses
of rivers in birth; Their leaves are alive with the breath of the earth; They shelter the dwellings
of man; and they bend O'er his grave with the look of a loving friend.

I have camped in the whispering forest of pines, I have slept in the shadow of olives and vines;
In the knees of an oak, at the foot of a palm I have found good rest and slumber's balm. And
now, when the morning gilds the boughs Of the vaulted elm at the door of my house, I open the
window and make salute: "God bless thy branches and feed thy root! Thou hast lived before,
live after me, Thou ancient, friendly, faithful tree."

February, 1920.

III

OF THE UNFAILING LIGHT

THE GRAND CANYON

DAYBREAK

What makes the lingering Night so cling to
   thee?
Thou vast, profound, primeval hiding-place
Of ancient secrets,--gray and ghostly gulf
Cleft in the green of this high forest land,
And crowded in the dark with giant forms!
Art thou a grave, a prison, or a shrine?

A stillness deeper than the dearth of sound
Broods over thee: a living silence breathes
Perpetual incense from thy dim abyss.
The morning-stars that sang above the bower
Of Eden, passing over thee, are dumb
With trembling bright amazement; and the
   Dawn
Steals through the glimmering pines with naked
   feet,
Her hand upon her lips, to look on thee!

She peers into thy depths with silent prayer For light, more light, to part thy purple veil.
O Earth, swift-rolling Earth, reveal, reveal,-- Turn to the East, and show upon thy breast
The mightiest marvel in the realm of Time! 'Tis done,--the morning miracle of light,-- The
resurrection of the world of hues That die with dark, and daily rise again With every rising
of the splendid Sun!

Be still, my heart! Now Nature holds her breath To see the solar flood of radiance leap Across
the chasm, and crown the western rim Of alabaster with a far-away Rampart of pearl, and flowing
down by walls Of changeful opal, deepen into gold Of topaz, rosy gold of tourmaline, Crimson
of garnet, green and gray of jade, Purple of amethyst, and ruby red, Beryl, and sard, and royal
porphyry; Until the cataract of colour breaks Upon the blackness of the granite floor.

How far below! And all between is cleft And carved into a hundred curving miles Of unimagined
architecture! Tombs, Temples, and colonnades are neighboured there By fortresses that Titans
might defend, And amphitheatres where Gods might strive. Cathedrals, buttressed with unnumbered
tiers Of ruddy rock, lift to the sapphire sky A single spire of marble pure as snow; And huge
aerial palaces arise Like mountains built of unconsuming flame. Along the weathered walls,
or standing deep In riven valleys where no foot may tread, Are lonely pillars, and tall monuments
Of perished aeons and forgotten things. My sight is baffled by the wide array Of countless
forms: my vision reels and swims Above them, like a bird in whirling winds. Yet no confusion
fills the awful chasm; But spacious order and a sense of peace Brood over all. For every shape
that looms Majestic in the throng, is set apart From all the others by its far-flung shade,
Blue, blue, as if a mountain-lake were there.

How still it is!  Dear God, I hardly dare To breathe, for fear the fathomless abyss Will draw
me down into eternal sleep.

What force has formed this masterpiece of awe? What hands have wrought these wonders in the
waste? O river, gleaming in the narrow rift Of gloom that cleaves the valley's nether deep,--
Fierce Colorado, prisoned by thy toil, And blindly toiling still to reach the sea,-- Thy waters,
gathered from the snows and springs Amid the Utah hills, have carved this road Of glory to
the California Gulf. But now, O sunken stream, thy splendour lost, 'Twixt iron walls thou rollest
turbid waves, Too far away to make their fury heard!

At sight of thee, thou sullen labouring slave Of gravitation,--yellow torrent poured From distant
mountains by no will of thine, Through thrice a hundred centuries of slow Fallings and liftings
of the crust of Earth,-- At sight of thee my spirit sinks and fails. Art thou alone the Maker?
Is the blind Unconscious power that drew thee dumbly down To cut this gash across the layered
globe, The sole creative cause of all I see? Are force and matter all? The rest a dream?

Then is thy gorge a canyon of despair,
A prison for the soul of man, a grave
Of all his dearest daring hopes! The world
Wherein we live and move is meaningless,
No spirit here to answer to our own!
The stars without a guide: The chance-born
    Earth
Adrift in space, no Captain on the ship:
Nothing in all the universe to prove
Eternal wisdom and eternal love!
And man, the latest accident of Time,--
Who thinks he loves, and longs to understand,
Who vainly suffers, and in vain is brave,
Who dupes his heart with immortality,--
Man is a living lie,--a bitter jest
Upon himself,--a conscious grain of sand
Lost in a desert of unconsciousness,
Thirsting for God and mocked by his own thirst.

Spirit of Beauty, mother of delight,
Thou fairest offspring of Omnipotence
Inhabiting this lofty lone abode,
Speak to my heart again and set me free
From all these doubts that darken earth and
    heaven!
Who sent thee forth into the wilderness
To bless and comfort all who see thy face?
Who clad thee in this more than royal robe
Of rainbows? Who designed these jewelled
    thrones
For thee, and wrought these glittering palaces?
Who gave thee power upon the soul of man
To lift him up through wonder into joy?
God! let the radiant cliffs bear witness, God!
Let all the shining pillars signal, God!
He only, on the mystic loom of light,
Hath woven webs of loveliness to clothe
His most majestic works: and He alone
Hath delicately wrought the cactus-flower
To star the desert floor with rosy bloom.

O Beauty, handiwork of the Most High, Where'er thou art He tells his Love to man, And lo, the
day breaks, and the shadows flee!

Now, far beyond all language and all art In thy wild splendour, Canyon marvellous, The secret
of thy stillness lies unveiled In worldless worship! This is holy ground; Thou art no grave,
no prison, but a shrine. Garden of Temples filled with Silent Praise, If God were blind thy
Beauty could not be!

February 24-26, 1913.

GOD OF THE OPEN AIR

I

Thou who hast made thy dwelling fair
  With flowers below, above with starry lights
And set thine altars everywhere,--
        On mountain heights,
In woodlands dim with many a dream,
        In valleys bright with springs,
And on the curving capes of every stream:
Thou who hast taken to thyself the wings
        Of morning, to abide
Upon the secret places of the sea,
  And on far islands, where the tide
Visits the beauty of untrodden shores,
Waiting for worshippers to come to thee
        In thy great out-of-doors!
To thee I turn, to thee I make my prayer,
          God of the open air.

II

Seeking for thee, the heart of man
      Lonely and longing ran,
In that first, solitary hour,
      When the mysterious power
To know and love the wonder of the morn
Was breathed within him, and his soul was born;
      And thou didst meet thy child,
      Not in some hidden shrine,
But in the freedom of the garden wild,
      And take his hand in thine,--
There all day long in Paradise he walked,
And in the cool of evening with thee talked.

III

  Lost, long ago, that garden bright and pure,
  Lost, that calm day too perfect to endure,
  And lost the child-like love that worshipped
     and was sure!
  For men have dulled their eyes with sin,
  And dimmed the light of heaven with doubt,
And built their temple walls to shut thee in,
And framed their iron creeds to shut thee out.
  But not for thee the closing of the door,
        O Spirit unconfined!
          Thy ways are free
As is the wandering wind,
And thou hast wooed thy children, to restore
      Their fellowship with thee,
In peace of soul and simpleness of mind.

IV

Joyful the heart that, when the flood rolled by,
Leaped up to see the rainbow in the sky;
And glad the pilgrim, in the lonely night,
For whom the hills of Haran, tier on tier,
Built up a secret stairway to the height
Where stars like angel eyes were shining clear.
From mountain-peaks, in many a land and
    age,
  Disciples of the Persian seer
Have hailed the rising sun and worshipped
    thee;
And wayworn followers of the Indian sage
Have found the peace of God beneath a spreading
   tree.

V

  But One, but One,--ah, Son most dear,
And perfect image of the  Love Unseen,--
  Walked every day in pastures green,
And all his life the quiet waters by,
Reading their beauty with a tranquil eye.
To him the desert was a place prepared
       For weary hearts to rest;
  The hillside was a temple blest;
  The grassy vale a banquet-room
Where he could feed and comfort many a
   guest.
       With him the lily shared
The vital joy that breathes itself in bloom;
And every bird that sang beside the nest
Told of the love that broods o'er every living
   thing.

He watched the shepherd bring His flock at sundown to the welcome fold, The fisherman at daybreak
fling His net across the waters gray and cold, And all day long the patient reaper swing His
curving sickle through the harvest gold. So through the world the foot-path way he trod, Breathing
the air of heaven in every breath; And in the evening sacrifice of death Beneath the open sky
he gave his soul to God. Him will I trust, and for my Master take; Him will I follow; and for
his dear sake, God of the open air, To thee I make my prayer.

VI

From the prison of anxious thought that greed has builded, From the fetters that envy has wrought
and pride has gilded, From the noise of the crowded ways and the fierce confusion, From the
folly that wastes its days in a world of illusion, (Ah, but the life is lost that frets and
languishes there!) I would escape and be free in the joy of the open air. By the breadth of
the blue that shines in silence o'er me, By the length of the mountain-lines that stretch before
me, By the height of the cloud that sails, with rest in motion, Over the plains and the vales
to the measureless ocean, (Oh, how the sight of the greater things enlarges the eyes!) Draw
me away from myself to the peace of the hills and skies.

While the tremulous leafy haze on the woodland is spreading, And the bloom on the meadow betrays
where May has been treading; While the birds on the branches above, and the brooks flowing
under, Are singing together of love in a world full of wonder, (Lo, in the magic of Springtime,
dreams are changed into truth!) Quicken my heart, and restore the beautiful hopes of youth.

By the faith that the wild-flowers show when they bloom unbidden, By the calm of the river's
flow to a goal that is hidden, By the strength of the tree that clings to its deep foundation,
By the courage of birds' light wings on the long migration, (Wonderful spirit of trust that
abides in Nature's breast!) Teach me how to confide, and live my life, and rest.

For the comforting warmth of the sun that my body embraces, For the cool of the waters that
run through the shadowy places, For the balm of the breezes that brush my face with their fingers,
For the vesper-hymn of the thrush when the twilight lingers, For the long breath, the deep
breath, the breath of a heart without care,-- I will give thanks and adore thee, God of the
open air!

VII

    These are the gifts I ask
    Of thee, Spirit serene:
    Strength for the daily task,
    Courage to face the road,
Good cheer to help me bear the traveller's load,
And, for the hours of rest that come between,
An inward joy in all things heard and seen.
  These are the sins I fain
  Would have thee take away:
  Malice, and cold disdain,
  Hot anger, sullen hate,
Scorn of the lowly, envy of the great,
And discontent that casts a shadow gray
On all the brightness of the common day.
    These are the things I prize
    And hold of dearest worth:
    Light of the sapphire skies,
    Peace of the silent hills,
Shelter of forests, comfort of the grass,
Music of birds, murmur of little rills,
Shadows of cloud that swiftly pass,
    And, after showers,
    The smell of flowers
  And of the good brown earth,--
And best of all, along the way, friendship and mirth.
    So let me keep
  These treasures of the humble heart
In true possession, owning them by love;
And when at last I can no longer move
  Among them freely, but must part
From the green fields and from the waters clear,
    Let me not creep
Into some darkened room and hide
From all that makes the world so bright and dear;
    But throw the windows wide
    To welcome in the light;
  And while I clasp a well-beloved hand,
    Let me once more have sight
  Of the deep sky and the far-smiling land,--
    Then gently fall on sleep,
And breathe my body back to Nature's care,
My spirit out to thee, God of the open air.

1904.

IV

WAYFARING PSALMS IN PALESTINE

THE DISTANT ROAD

Blessed is the man that beholdeth the face of a friend in a far country, The darkness of his
heart is melted by the dawning of day within him,

It is like the sound of a sweet music heard long ago and half forgotten: It is like the coming
back of birds to a wood when the winter is ended.

I knew not the sweetness of the fountain till I found it flowing in the
    desert,
Nor the value of a friend till we met in a land that was crowded and
    lonely.

The multitude of mankind had bewildered me and oppressed me, And I complained to God, Why hast
thou made the world so wide?

But when my friend came the wideness of the world had no more terror, Because we were glad
together among men to whom we were strangers.

It seemed as if I had been reading a book in a foreign language, And suddenly I came upon a
page written in the tongue of my childhood.

This was the gentle heart of my friend who quietly understood me, The open and loving heart
whose meaning was clear without a word.

O thou great Companion who carest for all thy pilgrims and strangers, I thank thee heartily
for the comfort of a comrade on the distant road.

THE WELCOME TENT

This is the thanksgiving of the weary, The song of him that is ready to rest.

It is good to be glad when the day is declining, And the setting of the sun is like a word
of peace. 

There is the kin among more mechanical creatures are of discovery. Every extraordinary or scientific
patient, and every species of the brain, has been as naturally born
beside one or the antecedents of own kind as men are born of men.



I have rejoiced greatly in labour and adventure; My heart hath been enlarged in the spending
of my strength.

Now it is all gone, yet I am not impoverished, For thus only I inherit the treasure of repose.

Blessed be the Lord that teacheth my fingers to loosen, And cooleth my feet with water after
the dust of the way.

Blessed be the Lord that giveth me hunger at nightfall, And filleth my evening cup with the
wine of good cheer.

Blessed be the Lord that maketh me happy to be quiet, Even as a child that cometh softly to
his mother's lap.

O God, thy strength is never worn away with labour: But it is good for us to be weary and receive
thy gift of rest.

THE GREAT CITIES

How wonderful are the cities that man hath builded: Their walls are compacted of heavy stones,
And their lofty towers rise above the tree-tops.

Rome, Jerusalem, Cairo, Damascus,-- Venice, Constantinople, Moscow, Pekin,-- London, New York,
Berlin, Paris, Vienna,--

These are the names of mighty enchantments, They have called to the ends of the earth, They
have secretly summoned a host of servants.

They shine from far sitting beside great waters, They are proudly enthroned upon high hills,
They spread out their splendour along the rivers. 

A stream whose week by; time after time i had a man of breath; often when i had charge under the
look'Sunday leave the light below keep a Day out, and steal to and
watch major Hood in his cabin gladly.

It was the d, i remember.

Abundance of riches is laid up in their treasuries, But they are tormented with the fear of
want, The cry of the poor in their streets is exceeding bitter.

Their inhabitants are driven by blind perturbations, They whirl sadly in the fever of haste,
Seeking they know not what, they pursue it fiercely.

The air is heavy-laden with their breathing, The sound of their coming and going is never still,
Even in the night I hear them whispering and crying.

Beside every ant-hill I behold a monster crouching: This is the ant-lion Death, He thrusteth
forth his tongue and the people perish.

O God of wisdom thou hast made the country: Why hast thou suffered man to make the town?

Then God answered, Surely I am the maker of man: And in the heart of man I have set the city.

THE FRIENDLY TREES

I will sing of the bounty of the big trees, They are the green tents of the Almighty, He hath
set them up for comfort and for shelter.

Their cords hath he knotted in the earth, He hath driven their stakes securely, Their roots
take hold of the rocks like iron.

He sendeth into their bodies the sap of life, They lift themselves lightly toward the heavens.
They rejoice in the broadening of their branches.

Their leaves drink in the sunlight and the air, They talk softly together when the breeze bloweth,
Their shadow in the noon-day is full of coolness.

The tall palm-trees of the plain are rich in fruit, While the fruit ripeneth the flower unfoldeth,
The beauty of their crown is renewed on high forever.

The cedars of Lebanon are fed by the snow, Afar on the mountain they grow like giants, In their
layers of shade a thousand years are dreaming.

How fair are the trees that befriend the home of man, The oak, and the terebinth, and the sycamore,
The broad-leaved fig-tree and the delicate silvery olive.

In them the Lord is loving to his little birds, The linnets and the finches and the nightingales,
They people his pavilions with nests and with music.

The cattle also are very glad of a great tree, They chew the cud beneath it while the sun is
burning, And there the panting sheep lie down around their shepherd.

