The day ended better than it had begun.  In the evening there was a reception, not large, but
most agreeable, at which the Emperor was very gay, and in excellent humor, and acted as if
anxious to efface the memory of the little scene with the Empress.  Their Majesties remained
at Fontainebleau till the 14th of November.  The King of Saxony had arrived the evening before
at Paris; and the Emperor, who rode on horseback nearly all the way from Fontainebleau to Paris,
repaired on his arrival to the Palace de l'Elysee.  The two monarchs appeared very agreeably
impressed with each other, and went in public together almost every day, and one morning early
left the Tuileries on foot, each accompanied by a single escort.  I was with the Emperor. 
They directed their steps, following the course of the stream, towards the bridge of Jena,
the work on which was being rapidly carried to completion, and reached the Place de la Revolution,
where fifty or sixty persons collected with the intention of accompanying the two sovereigns;
but as this seemed to annoy the Emperor, agents of the police caused them to disperse.  When
he had reached the bridge, his Majesty examined the work attentively; and finding some defects
in the construction, had the architect called, who admitted the correctness of his observations,
although, in order to convince him, the Emperor had to talk for some time, and often repeated
the same explanations.  His Majesty, turning then towards the King of Saxony, said to him,
"You see, my cousin, that the master's eye is necessary everywhere."--"Yes," replied the King
of Saxony; "especially an eye so well trained as your Majesty's."

We had not been long at Fontainebleau, when I noticed that the Emperor in the presence of his
august spouse was preoccupied and ill at ease.  The same uneasiness was visible on the countenance
of the Empress; and this state of constraint and mutual embarrassment soon became sufficiently
evident to be remarked by all, and rendered the stay at Fontainebleau extremely sad and depressing.
At Paris the presence of the King of Saxony made some diversion; but the Empress appeared more
unhappy than ever, which gave rise to numerous conjectures, but as for me, I knew only too
well the cause of it all.  The Emperor's brow became more furrowed with care each day, until
the 30th of November arrived.

On that day the dinner was more silent than ever.  The Empress had wept the whole day; and
in order to conceal as far as possible her pallor, and the redness of her eyes, wore a large
white hat tied under her chin, the brim of which concealed her face entirely.  The Emperor
sat in silence, his eyes fastened on his plate, while from time to time convulsive movements
agitated his countenance; and if he happened to raise his eyes, glanced stealthily at the Empress
with unmistakable signs of distress. The officers of the household, immovable as statues, regarded
this painful and gloomy scene with sad anxiety; while the whole repast was simply a form, as
their Majesties touched nothing, and no sound was heard but the regular movement of plates
placed and carried away, varied sadly by the monotonous tones of the household officers, and
the tinkling sound made by the Emperor's striking his knife mechanically on the edge of his
glass.  Once only his Majesty broke the silence by a deep sigh, followed by these words addressed
to one of the officers: "What time is it?"  An aimless question of the Emperor's, it seemed,
for he did not hear, or at any rate did not seem to hear, the answer; but almost immediately
he rose from the table, and the Empress followed him with slow steps, and her handkerchief
pressed against her lips as if to suppress her sobs.