Merwyn sought to use his privilege judiciously, and concentrated all his faculties on the question
of his standing in Marian's estimation. During the first few weeks, it was evident that his
progress in her favor was slow, if any were made at all. She was polite, she conversed with
him naturally and vivaciously on topics of general interest, but there appeared to be viewless
and impassable barriers between them. Not by word or sign did she seek to influence his action.

She was extremely reticent about herself, and took pains to seem indifferent in regard to his
life and plans, but she was beginning to chafe under what she characterized as his "inaction."
Giving to hospitals and military charities and buying United-States bonds counted for little
in her eyes.

"He parades his loyalty, and would have me think that he looks upon the right to call on me
as a great privilege, but he does not care enough about either me or the country to incur any
risk or hardship."

Thoughts like these were beginning not only to rekindle her old resentment, but also to cause
a vague sense of disappointment. Merwyn had at least accomplished one thing,--he confirmed
her father's opinion that he was not commonplace. Travel, residence abroad, association with
well-bred people, and a taste for reading, had given him a finish which a girl of Marian's
culture could not fail to appreciate. Because he satisfied her taste and eye, she was only
the more irritated by his failure in what she deemed the essential elements of manhood. In
spite of the passionate words he had once spoken, she was beginning to believe that a cold,
calculating persistency was the corner-stone of his character, that even if he were brave enough
to fight, he had deliberately decided to take no risks and enjoy his fortune. If this were
true, she assured herself, he might shoulder the national debt if he chose, but he could never
become her friend.

Then came the terrible and useless slaughter of Fredericksburg. With the fatuity that characterized
the earlier years of the war, the heroic army of the Potomac, which might have annihilated
Lee on previous occasions, was hurled against heights and fortifications that, from the beginning,
rendered the attack hopeless.

Marian's friends were exposed to fearful perils, but passed through the conflict unscathed.
Her heart went out to them in a deeper and stronger sympathy than ever, and Merwyn in contrast
lost correspondingly.

During the remaining weeks of December, she saw that her father was almost haggard from care
and anxiety, and he was compelled to make trips to Washington and even to the front.

"The end has not come yet," he had said to her, after one of these flying visits. "Burnside
has made an awful blunder, but he is eager to retrieve himself, and now has plans on foot that
promise better.  The disaffection among his commanding officers and troops is what I am most
afraid of--more, indeed, than of the rebel army. Unlike his predecessor, he is determined to
move, to act, and I think we may soon hear of another great battle."

Letters from her friends confirmed this view, especially a brief note from Lane, in which the
writer, fearing that it might be his last, had not wholly veiled his deep affection. "I am
on the eve of participating in an immense cavalry movement," it began, "and it may be some
time before I can write to you again, if ever."

The anxiety caused by this missive was somewhat relieved by a humorous account of the recall
of the cavalry force. She then learned, through her father, that the entire army was again
on the move, and that another terrific battle would be fought in a day or two.

"Burnside should cross the Rappahannock to-day or to-morrow, at the latest," Mr. Vosburgh had
remarked at breakfast, to which he had come from the Washington owl-train.

It was the 20th of December, and when the shadows of the early twilight were gathering, Burnside
had, in fact, massed his army at the fords of the river, and his troops, "little Strahan" among
them, were awaiting orders to enter the icy tide in the stealthy effort to gain Lee's left
flank. There are many veterans now living who remember the terrific "storm of wind, rain, sleet,
and snow" that assailed the unsheltered army. It checked further advance more effectually than
if all the rebel forces had been drawn up on the farther shore. After a frightful night, the
Union army was discovered in the dawn by Lee.

Even then Burnside would have crossed, and, in spite of his opponent's preparations and every
other obstacle, would have fought a battle, had he not been paralyzed by a foe with which no
general could cope,--Virginia mud. The army mired helplessly, supply trains could not reach
it. With difficulty the troops were led back to their old quarters, and so ended the disastrous
campaigns of the year, so far as the army of the Potomac was concerned.

The storm that drenched and benumbed the soldiers on the Rappahannock was equally furious in
the city of New York, and Mr.  Vosburgh sat down to dinner frowning and depressed. "It seems
as if fate is against us," he said. "This storm is general, I fear, and may prove more of a
defence to Lee than his fortifications at Fredericksburg. It's bad enough to have to cope with
treachery and disaffection."

"Treachery, papa?"

"Yes, treachery," replied her father, sternly. "Scoundrels in our own army informed Washington
disunionists of the cavalry movement of which Captain Lane wrote you, and these unmolested
enemies at the capital are in constant communication with Lee. When will our authorities and
the North awake to the truth that this is a life-and-death struggle, and that there must be
no more nonsense?"

"Would to Heaven I were a man!" said the young girl. "At this very moment, no doubt, Mr. Merwyn
is enjoying his sumptuous dinner, while my friends may be fording a dark, cold river to meet
their death. Oh! I can't eat anything to-night."

"Nonsense!" cried her mother, irritably.

"Come, little girl, you are taking things too much to heart. I am very glad you are not a man.
In justice, I must also add that Mr. Merwyn is doing more for the cause than any of your friends.
It so happens that I have learned that he is doing a great deal of which little is known."

"Pardon me," cried the girl, almost passionately. "Any man who voluntarily faces this storm,
and crosses that river to-night or to-morrow, does infinitely more in my estimation."

Her father smiled, but evidently his appetite was flagging also, and he soon went out to send
and receive some cipher despatches.

Merwyn was growing hungry for some evidence of greater friendliness than he had yet received.
Hitherto, he had never seen Marian alone when calling, and the thought had occurred that if
he braved the storm in paying her a visit, the effort might be appreciated. One part of his
hope was fulfilled, for he found her drawing-room empty. While he waited, that other stormy
and memorable evening when he had sought to find her alone flashed on his memory, and he feared
that he had made a false step in coming.

This impression was confirmed by her pale face and distant greeting. In vain he put forth his
best efforts to interest her. She remained coldly polite, took but a languid part in the conversation,
and at times even permitted him to see that her thoughts were preoccupied. He had been humble
and patient a long time, and now, in spite of himself, his anger began to rise.

Feeling that he had better take his leave while still under self-control, and proposing also
to hint that she had failed somewhat in courtesy, he arose abruptly and said: "You are not
well this evening, Miss Vosburgh? I should have perceived the fact earlier. I wish you good-night."

She felt the slight sting of his words, and was in no mood to endure it. Moreover, if she had
failed in such courtesy as he had a right to expect, he should know the reason, and she felt
at the moment willing that he should receive the implied reproach.

Therefore she said: "Pardon me, I am quite well. It is natural that I should be a little distraite,
for I have learned that my friends are exposed to this storm, and will probably engage in another
terrible battle to-morrow, or soon."

Again the old desperate expression, that she remembered so well, came into his eyes as he exclaimed,
bitterly: "You think me a coward because I remain in the city? What is this storm, or that
battle, compared with what I am facing! Good-night;" and, giving her no chance for further
words, he hastened away.

CHAPTER XXI.

FEARS AND PERPLEXITIES.

MERWYN found the storm so congenial to his mood that he breasted it for hours before returning
to his home. There, in weariness and reaction, he sank into deep dejection.

"What is the use of anger?" he asked himself, as he renewed the dying fire in his room. "In
view of all the past, she has more cause for resentment than I, while it is a matter of indifference
to her whether I am angry or not. I might as well be incensed at ice because it is cold, and
she is ice to me. She has her standard and a circle of friends who come up to it. This I never
have done and never can do. Therefore she only tolerates me and is more than willing that I
should disappear below her horizon finally. I was a fool to speak the words I did to-night.
What can they mean to her when nothing is left for me, apparently, but a safe, luxurious life?
Such outbreaks can only seem hysterical or mere affectations, and there shall be no more of
them, let the provocation be what it may. Indeed, why should I inflict myself on her any more?
I cannot say that she has not a woman's heart, but I wronged and chilled it from the first,
and cannot now retrieve myself. If I should go to her to-morrow, even in a private's uniform,
she would give me her hand cordially, but she compares me with hundreds of thousands who seem
braver men than I. It is useless for me to suggest that I am doing more than those who go to
fight. Her thought would be: 'I have all the friends I need among more knightly spirits who
are not afraid to look brave enemies in the face, and without whom the North would be disgraced.
Let graybeards furnish the sinews of war; let young men give their blood if need be. It is
indeed strange that a man's arm should be paralyzed, and his best hope in life blighted, by
a mother!'"

If he could have known Marian's thoughts and heard the conversation that ensued with her father,
he would not have been so despondent.

When he left her so abruptly she again experienced the compunctions she had felt before. Whether
he deserved it or not she could not shut her eyes to the severity of the wound inflicted, or
to his suffering. In vain she tried to assure herself that he did deserve it. Granting this,
the thoughts asserted themselves: "Why am I called upon to resent his course? Having granted
his request to visit me, I might, at least, be polite and affable on his own terms.  Because
he wishes more, and perhaps hopes for more, this does not, as papa says, commit me in the least.
He may have some scruple in fighting openly against the land of his mother's ancestry. If that
scruple has more weight with him than my friendly regard, that is his affair. His words to-night
indicated that he must be under some strong restraint. O dear! I wish I had never known him;
he perplexes and worries me. The course of my other friends is simple and straightforward as
the light. Why do I say other friends? He's not a friend at all, yet my thoughts return to
him in a way that is annoying."

When her father came home she told him what had occurred, and unconsciously permitted him to
see that her mind was disturbed. He did not smile quizzically, as some sagacious people would
have done, thus touching the young girl's pride and arraying it against her own best interests,
it might be. With the thought of her happiness ever uppermost, he would discover the secret
causes of her unwonted perturbation. Not only Merwyn--about whom he had satisfied himself--should
have his chance, but also the girl herself. Mrs. Vosburgh's conventional match-making would
leave no chance for either. The profounder man believed that nature, unless interfered with
by heavy, unskilful hands, would settle the question rightly.

He therefore listened without comment, and at first only remarked, "Evidently, Marian, you
are not trying to make the most and best of this young fellow."

"But, papa, am I bound to do this for people who are disagreeable to me and who don't meet
my views at all?"

"Certainly not. Indeed, you may have frozen Merwyn out of the list of your acquaintances already."

"Well," replied the girl, almost petulantly, "that, perhaps, will be the best ending of the
whole affair."

"That's for you to decide, my dear."

"But, papa, I FEEL that you don't approve of my course."

"Neither do I disapprove of it. I only say, according to our bond to be frank, that you are
unfair to Merwyn. Of course, if he is essentially disagreeable to you, there is no occasion
for you to make a martyr of yourself."

"That's what irritates me so," said the girl, impetuously. "He might have made himself very
agreeable. But he undervalued and misunderstood me so greatly from the first that it was hard
to forgive him."

"If he hadn't shown deep contrition and regret for that course I shouldn't wish you to forgive
him, even though his antecedents had made anything better scarcely possible."

"Come down to the present hour, then. What he asked of you is one thing. I see what he wishes.
He desires, at least, the friendship that I give to those who fulfil my ideal of manhood in
these times. He has no right to seek this without meeting the conditions which remove all hesitation
in regard to others. It angers me that he does so. I feel as if he were seeking to buy my good-will
by donations to this, that, and the other thing. He still misunderstands me. Why can't he realize
that, to one of my nature, fording the icy Rappahannock to-night would count for more than
his writing checks for millions?"

"Probably he does understand it, and that is what he meant by his words to-night, when he said,
'What is this storm, or what a battle?'"

She was overwrought, excited, and off her guard, and spoke from a deep impulse. "A woman, in
giving herself, gives everything. If he can't give up a scruple--I mean if his loyalty is so
slight that his mother's wishes and dead ancestors--"

"My dear little girl, you are not under the slightest obligation to give anything," resumed
her father, discreetly oblivious to the significance of her words. "If you care to give a little
good-will and kindness to one whom you have granted the right to visit you, they will tend
to confirm and develop the better and manly qualities he is now manifesting. You know I have
peculiar faculties of finding out about people, and, incidentally and casually, I have informed
myself about this Mr. Merwyn. I think I can truly say that he is doing all and more than could
be expected of a young fellow in his circumstances, with the one exception that he does not
put on our uniform and go to the front. He may have reasons--very possibly, as you think, mistaken
and inadequate ones--which, nevertheless, are binding on his conscience. What else could his
words mean to-night? He is not living a life of pleasure-seeking and dissipation, like so many
other young nabobs in the city. Apparently he has not sought much other society than yours.
Pardon me for saying it, but you have not given him much encouragement to avoid the temptations
that are likely to assail a lonely, irresponsible young fellow. In one sense you are under
no obligation to do this; in another, perhaps you are, for you must face the fact that you
have great influence over him.  This influence you must either use or throw away, as you decide.
You are not responsible for this influence; neither are your friends responsible for the war.
When it came, however, they faced the disagreeable and dangerous duties that it brought."

"O papa! I have been a stupid, resentful fool."

"No, my dear; at the worst you have been misled by generous and loyal impulses. Your deep sympathy
with recent events has made you morbid, and therefore unfair. To your mind Mr. Merwyn represented
the half-hearted element that shuns meeting what must be met at every cost. If this were true
of him I should share in your spirit, but he appears to be trying to be loyal and to do what
he can in the face of obstacles greater than many overcome."

"I don't believe he will ever come near me again!" she exclaimed.

"Then you are absolved in the future. Of course we can make no advances towards a man who has
been your suitor."

Merwyn's course promised to fulfil her fear,--she now acknowledged to herself that it was a
fear,--for his visits ceased. She tried to dismiss him from her thoughts, but a sense of her
unfairness and harshness haunted her. She did not see why she had not taken her father's view,
or why she had thrown away her influence that accorded with the scheme of life to which she
had pledged herself. The very restraint indicated by his words was a mystery, and mysteries
are fascinating. She remembered, with compunction, that not even his own mother had sought
to develop a true, manly spirit in him. "Now he is saying," she thought, bitterly, "that I,
too, am a fanatic,--worse than his mother."

Weeks passed and she heard nothing from him, nor did her father mention his name. While her
regret was distinct and positive, it must not be supposed that it gave her serious trouble.
Indeed, the letters of Mr. Lane, and the semi-humorous journal of Strahan and Blauvelt, together
with the general claims of society and her interest in her father's deep anxieties, were fast
banishing it from her mind, when, to her surprise, his card was handed to her one stormy afternoon,
late in January.

"I am sorry to intrude upon you, Miss Vosburgh," he began, as she appeared, "but--"

"Why should you regard it as an intrusion, Mr. Merwyn?"

"I think a lady has a right to regard any unwelcome society as an intrusion."

"Admitting even so much, it does not follow that this is an intrusion," she said, laughing.
Then she added, with slightly heightened color: "Mr. Merwyn, I must at least keep my own self-respect,
and this requires an acknowledgment. I was rude to you when you last called. But I was morbid
from anxiety and worry over what was happening. I had no right to grant your request to call
upon me and then fail in courtesy."

"Will you, then, permit me to renew my old request?" he asked, with an eagerness that he could
not disguise.

"Certainly not. That would imply such utter failure on my part! You should be able to forgive
me one slip, remembering the circumstances."

"You have the most to forgive," he replied, humbly. "I asked for little more than toleration,
but I felt that I had not the right to force even this upon you."

"I am glad you are inclined to be magnanimous," she replied, laughing. "Women usually take
advantage of that trait in men--when they manifest it. We'll draw a line through the evening
of the 20th of December, and, as Jefferson says, in his superb impersonation of poor old Rip,
'It don't count.' By the way, have you seen him?" she asked, determined that the conversation
should take a different channel.

"No; I have been busy of late. But pardon me, Miss Vosburgh, I'm forgetting my errand shamefully.
Do not take the matter too seriously. I think you have no reason to do so. Mr. Strahan is in
the city and is ill. I have just come from him."

Her face paled instantly, and she sank into a chair.

"I beg of you not to be so alarmed," he added, hastily. "I shall not conceal anything from
you. By the merest chance I saw him coming up Broadway in a carriage, and, observing that he
looked ill, jumped into a hack and followed him to his residence. You had reason for your anxiety
on December 20th, for he took a severe cold from exposure that night. For a time he made light
of it, but at last obtained sick-leave. He asked me to tell you--"

"He has scarcely mentioned the fact that he was not well;" and there was an accent of reproach
in the young girl's tones.

"I understand Strahan better than I once did, perhaps because better able to understand him,"
was Merwyn's quiet reply. "He is a brave, generous fellow, and, no doubt, wished to save you
from anxiety. There has been no chance for him to say very much to me."

"Was he expected by his family?"

"They were merely informed, by a telegram, that he was on his way. He is not so well as when
he started. Naturally he is worse for the journey. Moreover, he used these words, 'I felt that
I was going to be ill and wished to get home.'"

"Has a physician seen him yet?"

"Yes, I brought their family physician in the hack, which I had kept waiting. He fears that
it will be some time before his patient is out again. I have never been seriously ill myself,
but I am sure--I mean, I have heard--that a few words often have great influence in aiding
one in Strahan's condition to triumph over disease. It is often a question of will and courage,
you know. I will take a note to him if you wish. Poor fellow! he may have his biggest fight
on hand while the others are resting in winter quarters."

"I shall be only too glad to avail myself of your offer. Please excuse me a moment."

When she returned he saw traces of tears in her eyes. She asked, eagerly, "Will you see him often?"

"I shall call daily."

"Would it be too much trouble for you to let me know how he is, should he be very seriously
ill?" Then, remembering that this might lead to calls more frequent than she was ready to receive,
or than he would find it convenient to make, she added: "I suppose you are often down town
and might leave word with papa at his office. I have merely a formal acquaintance with Mrs.
Strahan and her daughters, and, if Mr. Strahan should be very ill, I should have to rely upon
you for information."

"I shall make sure that you learn of his welfare daily until he is able to write to you, and
I esteem it a privilege to render you this service."

He then bowed and turned away, and she did not detain him. Indeed, her mind was so absorbed
by her friend's danger that she could not think of much else.

The next day a note, addressed to Mr. Vosburgh, was left at his office, giving fuller particulars
of Strahan's illness, which threatened to be very serious indeed. High fever had been developed,
and the young soldier had lost all intelligent consciousness. Days followed in which this fever
was running its course, and Merwyn's reports, ominous in spite of all effort to disguise the
deep anxiety felt by Strahan's friends, were made only through Mr. Vosburgh. Marian began to
regret her suggestion that the information should come in this way, for she now felt that Merwyn
had received the impression that his presence would not be agreeable. She was eager for more
details and oppressed with the foreboding that she would never see her light-hearted friend
again. She was almost tempted to ask Merwyn to call, but felt a strange reluctance to do so.

"I gave him sufficient encouragement to continue his visits," she thought, "and he should distinguish
between the necessity of coming every day and the privilege of coming occasionally."

One evening her father looked very grave as he handed Marian the note addressed to him.

"O papa!" exclaimed the girl, "he's worse!"

"Yes, I fear Strahan is in a very critical condition. I happened to meet Merwyn when he left
the note to-day, and the young fellow himself looked haggard and ill. But he carelessly assured
me that he was perfectly well. He said that the crisis of Strahan's fever was approaching,
and that the indications were bad."

"Papa!" cried the girl, tearfully, "I can't endure this suspense and inaction. Why would it
be bad taste for us to call on Mrs. Strahan this evening? She must know how dear a friend Arthur
is to me. I don't care for conventionality in a case like this. It seems cold-blooded to show
no apparent interest, and it might do Arthur good if he should learn that we had been there
because of our anxiety and sympathy."

"Well, my dear, what you suggest is the natural and loyal course, and therefore outweighs all
conventionality in my mind. We'll go after dinner."

Marian's doubt as to her reception by Mrs. Strahan was speedily dispelled, for the sorrow-stricken
mother was almost affectionate in her welcome.

"Arthur, in his delirium, often mentions your name," she said, "and then he is in camp or battle
again, or else writing his journal. I have thought of sending for you, but he wouldn't have
known you. He does not even recognize me, and has not for days. Our physician commands absolute
quiet and as little change in those about him as possible. What we should have done without
Mr. Merwyn I scarcely know. He is with him now, and has watched every night since Arthur's
return. I never saw any one so changed, or else we didn't understand him. He is tireless in
his strength, and womanly in his patience. His vigils are beginning to tell on him sadly, but
he says that he will not give up till the crisis is past. If Arthur lives he will owe his life
largely to one who, last summer, appeared too indolent to think of anything but his own pleasure.
How we often misjudge people! They were boys and playmates together, and are both greatly changed.
O Miss Vosburgh, my heart just stands still with dread when I think of what may soon happen.
Arthur had become so manly, and we were so proud of him! He has written me more than once of
your influence, and I had hoped that the way might open for our better acquaintance."

"Do you think the crisis may come to-night?" Marian asked, with quivering lips.

"Yes, it may come now at any hour. The physician will remain all night."

"Oh, I wish I might know early in the morning. Believe me, I shall not sleep."

"You shall know, Miss Vosburgh, and I hope you will come and see me, whatever happens. You
will please excuse me now, for I cannot be away from Arthur at this time. I would not have
seen any one but you."

At one o'clock in the morning there was a ring at Mr. Vosburgh's door. He opened it, and Merwyn
stood there wrapped in his fur cloak.  "Will you please give this note to Miss Vosburgh?" he
said. "I think it contains words that will bring welcome relief and hope. I would not have
disturbed you at this hour had I not seen your light burning;" and, before Mr. Vosburgh could
reply, he lifted his hat and strode away.

The note ran as follows:

"MY DEAR MISS VOSBURGH:--Arthur became conscious a little before twelve. He was fearfully weak,
and for a time his life appeared to flicker. I alone was permitted to be with him. After a
while I whispered that you had been here. He smiled and soon fell into a quiet sleep. Our physician
now gives us strong hopes.

"Sincerely and gratefully yours,

"CHARLOTTE STRAHAN."

Marian, who had been sleepless from thoughts more evenly divided between her friend and Merwyn
than she would have admitted even to herself, handed the note to her father. Her face indicated
both gladness and perplexity. He read and returned it with a smile.

"Papa," she said, "you have a man's straightforward common-sense. I am only a little half-girl
and half-woman. Do you know, I almost fear that both Mrs. Strahan and Mr. Merwyn believe I
am virtually engaged to Arthur."

"Their belief can't engage you," said her father, laughing. "Young Strahan will get well, thanks
to you and Merwyn. Mrs. Strahan said that both were greatly changed. Merwyn certainly must
have a hardy nature, for he improves under a steady frost."

"Papa!" cried Marian, with a vivid blush, "you are a deeper and more dangerous ally of Mr.
Menvyn than mamma. I am on my guard against you both, and I shall retire at once before you
begin a panegyric that will cease only when you find I am asleep."

"Yes, my dear, go and sleep the sleep of the unjust!"

CHAPTER XXII.

A GIRL'S THOUGHTS AND IMPULSES.

SLEEP, which Marian said would cut short her father's threatened panegyrics of Merwyn, did
not come speedily. The young girl had too much food for thought.

She knew that Mrs. Strahan had not, during the past summer, misunderstood her son's faithful
nurse. In spite of all prejudice and resentment, in spite of the annoying fact that he would
intrude so often upon her thoughts, she had to admit the truth that he was greatly changed,
and that, while she might be the cause, she could take to herself no credit for the transformation.
To others she had given sincere and cordial encouragement. Towards him she had been harsh and
frigid. He must indeed possess a hardy nature, or else a cold persistence that almost made
her shiver, it was so indomitable.

She felt that she did not understand him; and she both shrunk from his character and was fascinated
by it. She could not now charge him with disregard of her feelings and lack of delicacy. His
visits had ceased when he believed them to be utterly repugnant; he had not availed himself
of the opportunity to see her often afforded by Strahan's illness, and had been quick to take
the hint that he could send his reports to her father. There had been no effort to make her
aware of his self-sacrificing devotion to her friend. The thing that was irritating her was
that he could approach so nearly to her standard and yet fail in a point that to her was vital.
His course indicated unknown characteristics or circumstances, and she felt that she could
never give him her confidence and unreserved regard while he fell short of the test of manhood
which she believed that the times demanded. If underneath all his apparent changes for the
better there was an innate lack of courage to meet danger and hardship, or else a cold, calculating
purpose not to take these risks, she would shrink from him in strong repulsion. She knew that
the war had developed not a few constitutional cowards,--men to be pitied, it is true, but
with a commiseration that, in her case, would be mingled with contempt. On the other hand,
if he reasoned, "I will win her if I can; I will do all and more than she can ask, but I will
not risk the loss of a lifetime's enjoyment of my wealth," she would quietly say to him by
her manner: "Enjoy your wealth. I can have no part in such a scheme of existence; I will not
give my hand, even in friendship, to a man who would do less than I would, were I in his place."

If her father was right, and he had scruples of conscience, or some other unknown restraint,
she felt that she must know all before she would give her trust and more. If he could not satisfy
her on these points, as others had done so freely and spontaneously, he had no right to ask
or expect more from her than ordinary courtesy.

Having thus resolutely considered antidotes for a tendency towards relentings not at all to
her mind, and met, as she believed, her father's charge of unfairness, her thoughts, full of
sympathy and hope, dwelt upon the condition of her friend. Recalling the past and the present,
her heart grew very tender, and she found that he occupied in it a foremost place. Indeed,
it seemed to her a species of disloyalty to permit any one to approach his place and that of
Mr. Lane, for both formed an inseparable part of her new and more earnest life.

She, too, had changed, and was changing. As her nature deepened and grew stronger it was susceptible
of deeper and stronger influences. Under the old regime pleasure, excitement, triumphs of power
that ministered to vanity, had been her superficial motives. To the degree that she had now
attained true womanhood, the influences that act upon and control a woman were in the ascendant.
Love ceased to dwell in her mind as a mere fastidious preference, nor could marriage ever be
a calculating choice, made with the view of securing the greatest advantages. She knew that
earnest men loved her without a thought of calculation,--loved her for herself alone.  She
called them friends now, and to her they were no more as yet.  But their downright sincerity
made her sincere and thoughtful. Her esteem and affection for them were so great that she was
not at all certain that circumstances and fuller acquaintance might not develop her regard
towards one or the other of them into a far deeper feeling. In their absence, their manly qualities
appealed to her imagination. She had reached a stage in spiritual development where her woman's
nature was ready for its supreme requirement. She could be more than friend, and was conscious
of the truth; and she believed that her heart would make a positive and final choice in accord
with her intense and loyal sympathies. In the great drama of the war centred all that ideal
and knightly action that has ever been so fascinating to her sex, and daily conversation with
her father had enabled her to understand what lofty principles and great destinies were involved.
She had been shown how President Lincoln's proclamation, freeing the slaves, had aimed a fatal
blow at the chief enemies of liberty, not only in this land, but in all lands.  Mr. Vosburgh
was a philosophical student of history, and, now that she had become his companion, he made
it clear to her how the present was linked to the past. Instead of being imbued with vindictiveness
towards the South, she was made to see a brave, self-sacrificing, but misled people, seeking
to rivet their own chains and blight the future of their fair land. Therefore, a man like Lane,
capable of appreciating and acting upon these truths, took heroic proportions in her fancy,
while Strahan, almost as delicate as a girl, yet brave as the best, won, in his straightforward
simplicity, her deepest sympathy. The fact that the latter was near, that his heart had turned
to her even from under the shadow of death, gave him an ascendency for the time.

"To some such man I shall eventually yield," she assured herself, "and not to one who brings
a chill of doubt, not to one unmastered by loyal impulses to face every danger which our enemies
dare meet."

Then she slept, and dreamt that she saw Strahan reaching out his hands to her for help from
dark, unknown depths.

She awoke sobbing, and, under the confused impulse of the moment, exclaimed: "He shall have
all the help I can give; he shall live. While he is weaker, he is braver than Mr. Lane. He
triumphed over himself and everything. He most needs me. Mr. Lane is strong in himself. Why
should I be raising such lofty standards of self-sacrifice when I cannot give love to one who
most needs it, most deserves it?"

CHAPTER XXIII.

"MY FRIENDSHIP IS MINE TO GIVE."

STRAHAN'S convalescence need not be dwelt upon, nor the subtle aid given by Marian through
flowers, fruit, and occasional calls upon his mother.

These little kindnesses were tonics beyond the physician's skill, and he grew stronger daily.
Mrs. Strahan believed that things were taking their natural course, and, with the delicacy
of a lady, was content to welcome the young girl in a quiet, cordial manner. Merwyn tacitly
accepted the mother's view, which she had not wholly concealed in the sick-room, and which
he thought had been confirmed by Marian's manner and interest. With returning health Strahan's
old sense of humor revived, and he often smiled and sighed over the misapprehension. Had he
been fully aware of Marian's mood, he might have given his physician cause to look grave over
an apparent return of fever.

In the reticence and delicacy natural to all the actors in this little drama, thoughts were
unspoken, and events drifted on in accordance with the old relations. Merwyn's self-imposed
duties of nurse became lighter, and he took much-needed rest. Strahan felt for him the strongest
good-will and gratitude, but grew more and more puzzled about him. Apparently the convalescent
was absolutely frank concerning himself. He spoke of his esteem and regard for Marian as he
always had done; his deeper affection he never breathed to any one, although he believed the
young girl was aware of it, and he did not in the least blame her that she had no power to
give him more than friendship.

Of his military plans and hopes he spoke without reserve to Merwyn, but in return received
little confidence. He could not doubt the faithful attendant who had virtually twice saved
his life, but he soon found a barrier of impenetrable reserve, which did not yield to any manifestations
of friendliness. Strahan at last came to believe that it veiled a deep, yet hopeless regard
for Marian. This view, however, scarcely explained the situation, for he found his friend even
more reticent in respect to the motives which kept him a civilian.

"I'd give six months' pay," said the young officer, on one occasion, "if we had you in our
regiment, and I am satisfied that I could obtain a commission for you. You would be sure of
rapid promotion. Indeed, with your wealth and influence you could secure a lieutenant-colonelcy
in a new regiment by spring. Believe me, Merwyn, the place for us young fellows is at the front
in these times. My blood's up,--what little I have left,--and I'm bound to see the scrimmage
out. You have just the qualities to make a good officer. You could control and discipline men
without bluster or undue harshness. We need such officers, for an awful lot of cads have obtained
commissions."

Merwyn had walked to a window so that his friend could not see his face, and at last he replied,
quietly and almost coldly: "There are some things, Strahan, in respect to which one cannot
judge for another. I am as loyal as you are now, but I must aid the cause in my own way. I
would prefer that you should not say anything more on this subject, for it is of no use. I
have taken my course, and shall reveal it only by my action. There is one thing that I can
do, and shall be very glad to do. I trust we are such good friends that you can accept of my
offer. Your regiment has been depleted. New men would render it more effective and add to your
chances of promotion.  It will be some time before you are fit for active service. I can put
you in the way of doing more than your brother-officers in the regiment, even though you are
as pale as a ghost. Open a recruiting office near your country home again,--you can act at
present through a sergeant,--and I will give you a check which will enable you to add to the
government bounty so largely that you can soon get a lot of hardy country fellows. No one need
know where the money comes from except ourselves."

Strahan laughed, and said: "It is useless for me to affect squeamishness in accepting favors
from you at this late day. I believed you saved my life last summer, and now you are almost
as haggard as I am from watching over me. I'll take your offer in good faith, as I believe
you mean it. I won't pose as a self-sacrificing patriot only. I confess that I am ambitious.
You fellows used to call me 'little Strahan.' YOU are all right now, but there are some who
smile yet when my name is mentioned, and who regard my shoulder-straps as a joke. I've no doubt
they are already laughing at the inglorious end of my military career. I propose to prove that
I can be a soldier as well as some bigger and more bewhiskered men.  I have other motives also;"
and his thought was, "Marian may feel differently if I can win a colonel's eagles."

Merwyn surmised as much, but he only said, quietly: "Your motives are as good as most men's,
and you have proved yourself a brave, efficient officer. That would be enough for me, had I
not other motives also."

"Hang it all! I would tell you my motives if you would be equally frank."

"Since I cannot be, you must permit me to give other proofs of friendship. Nor do I expect,
indeed I should be embarrassed by receiving, what I cannot return."

"You're an odd fish, Merwyn. Well, I have ample reason to give you my faith and loyalty, as
I do. Your proposition has put new life into me already. I needn't spend idle weeks--"

"Hold on. One stipulation. Your physician must regulate all your actions. Remember that here,
as at the front, the physician is, at times, autocrat."

Mervvyn called twice on Marian during his friend's convalescence, and could no longer complain
of any lack of politeness. Indeed, her courtesy was slightly tinged with cordiality, and she
took occasion to speak of her appreciation of his vigils at Strahan's side. Beyond this she
showed no disposition towards friendliness. At the same, time, she could not even pretend to
herself that she was indifferent. He piqued both her pride and her curiosity, for he made no
further effort to reveal himself or to secure greater favor than she voluntarily bestowed.
She believed that her father looked upon her course as an instance of feminine prejudice, of
resentment prolonged unnaturally and capriciously,--that he was saying to himself, "A man would
quarrel and have done with it after amends were made, but a woman--"

"He regards this as my flaw, my weakness, wherein I differ from him and his kind," she thought.
"I can't help it. Circumstances have rendered it impossible for me to feel toward Mr. Merwyn
as toward other men. I have thought the matter out and have taken my stand. If he wishes more
than I now give he must come up to my ground, for I shall not go down to his."

She misunderstood her father. That sagacious gentleman said nothing, and quietly awaited developments.

It was a glad day for Arthur Strahan when, wrapped and muffled beyond all danger, he was driven,
in a close carriage, to make an afternoon visit to Marian. She greeted him with a kindness
that warmed his very soul, and even inspired hopes which he had, as yet, scarcely dared to
entertain. Time sped by with all the old easy interchange of half-earnest nonsense. A deep
chord of truth and affection vibrated through even jest and merry repartee. Yet, so profound
are woman's intuitions in respect to some things, that, now she was face to face with him again,
she feared, before an hour passed, that he could never be more to her than when she had given
him loyal friendship in the vine-covered cottage in the country.

"By the way," he remarked, abruptly, "I suppose you never punished Merwyn as we both, at one
time, felt that he deserved? He admits that he calls upon you quite frequently, and speaks
of you in terms of strongest respect. You know I am his sincere, grateful friend henceforth.
I don't pretend to understand him, but I trust him, and wish him well from the depths of my heart."

"I also wish him well," Marian remarked, quietly.

He looked at her doubtfully for a moment, then said, "Well, I suppose you have reasons for
resentment, but I assure you he has changed very greatly."

"How do you know that, when you don't understand him?"

"I do know it," said the young fellow, earnestly. "Merwyn never was like other people. He is
marked by ancestry; strong-willed, reticent on one side, proud and passionate on the other.
My own mother was not more untiring and gentle with me than he, yet if I try to penetrate his
reserve he becomes at once distant, and almost cold.  When I thought he was seeking to amuse
himself with you I felt like strangling him; now that I know he has a sincere respect for you,
if not more, I have nothing against him. I wish he would join us in the field, and have said
as much to him more than once. He has the means to raise a regiment himself, and there are
few possessing more natural ability to transform raw recruits into soldiers."

"Why does he not join you in the field?" she asked, quickly, and there was a trace of indignation
in her tones.

"I do not think he will ever speak of his reasons to any one. At least, he will not to me."

"Very well," she said; and there was significance in her cold, quiet tones.

"They result from no lack of loyalty," earnestly resumed Strahan, who felt that for some reason
he was not succeeding as his friend's advocate. "He has generously increased my chances of
promotion by giving me a large sum towards recruiting my regiment."

"After your hard experience, are you fully determined to go back?" she asked, with a brilliant
smile. "Surely you have proved your courage, and, with your impaired health, you have a good
reason not for leaving the task to stronger men."

"And take my place contentedly among the weaker ones in your estimation?" he added, flushing.
"How could you suggest or think such a thing? Certainly I shall go back as soon as my physician
permits, and I shall go to stay till the end, unless I am knocked over or disabled."

Her eyes flashed exultantly as she came swiftly to him. "Now you can understand me," she said,
giving him her hand. "My friendship and honor are for men like you and Mr. Lane and Mr. Blauvelt,
who offer all, and not for those who offer--MONEY."

"By Jove, Miss Marian, you make me feel as if I could storm Richmond single-handed."

"Don't think I say this in any callous disregard of what may happen. God knows I do not; but
in times like these my heart chooses friends among knightly men who voluntarily go to meet
other men as brave. Don't let us talk any more about Mr. Merwyn. I shall always treat him politely,
and I have gratefully acknowledged my indebtedness for his care of you. He understands me,
and will give me no opportunity to do as you suggested, were I so inclined. His conversation
is that of a cultivated man, and as such I enjoy it; but there it all ends."

"But I don't feel that I have helped my friend in your good graces at all," protested Strahan,
ruefully.

"Has he commissioned you to help him?" she asked, quickly.

"No, no, indeed. You don't know Merwyn, or you never would have asked that question."

"Well, I prefer as friends those whom I do know, who are not inshrouded in mystery or incased
in reticence. No, Arthur Strahan, my friendship is mine to give, be it worth much or little.
If he does not care enough for it to take the necessary risks, when the bare thought of shunning
them makes you flush hotly, he cannot have it. All his wealth could not buy one smile from
me. Now let all this end. I respect your loyalty to him, but I have my own standard, and shall
abide by it;" and she introduced another topic.

CHAPTER XXIV.

A FATHER'S FORETHOUGHT.

STRAHAN improved rapidly in health, and was soon able to divide his time between his city and
his country home. The recruiting station near the latter place was successful in securing stalwart
men, who were tempted by the unusually large bounties offered through Merwyn's gift. The young
officer lost no opportunities of visiting Marian's drawing-room, and, while his welcome continued
as cordial as ever, she, nevertheless, indicated by a frank and almost sisterly manner the
true state of her feelings toward him. The impulse arising at the critical hour of his illness
speedily died away. His renewed society confirmed friendship, but awakened nothing more, and
quieter thoughts convinced her that the future must reveal what her relations should be to
him and to others.

As he recovered health her stronger sympathy went out to Mr. Lane, who had not asked for leave
of absence.

"I am rampantly well," he wrote, "and while my heart often travels northward, I can find no
plausible pretext to follow. I may receive a wound before long which will give me a good excuse,
since, for our regiment, there is prospect of much active service while the infantry remain
in winter quarters. It is a sad truth that the army is discouraged and depleted to a degree
never known before. Homesickness is epidemic. A man shot himself the other day because refused
a furlough. Desertions have been fearfully numerous among enlisted men, and officers have urged
every possible excuse for leaves of absence. A man with my appetite stands no chance whatever,
and our regimental surgeon laughs when I assure him that I am suffering from acute heart-disease.
Therefore, my only hope is a wound, and I welcome our prospective raid in exchange for dreary
picket duty."

Marian knew what picket duty and raiding meant in February weather, and wrote words of kindly
warmth that sustained her friend through hard, prosaic service.

She also saw that her father was burdened with heavy cares and responsibilities. Disloyal forces
and counsels were increasing in the great centres at the North, and especially in New York
City. Therefore he was intrusted with duties of the most delicate and difficult nature. It
was her constant effort to lead him to forget his anxieties during such evenings as he spent
at home, and when she had congenial callers she sometimes prevailed upon him to take part in
the general conversation. It so happened, one evening, that Strahan and Merwyn were both present.
Seeing that the latter felt a little de trop, Mr. Vosburgh invited him to light a cigar in
the dining-room, and the two men were soon engaged in animated talk, the younger being able
to speak intelligently of the feeling in England at the time. By thoughtful questions he also
drew out his host in regard to affairs at home.

The two guests departed together, and Marian, observing the pleased expression on her father's
face, remarked, "You have evidently found a congenial spirit."

"I found a young fellow who had ideas and who was not averse to receiving more."

"You can relieve my conscience wholly, papa," said the young girl, laughing. "When Mr. Merwyn
comes hereafter I shall turn him over to you. He will then receive ideas and good influence
at their fountain-head. You and mamma are inclined to give him so much encouragement that I
must be more on the defensive than ever."

"That policy would suit me exactly," replied her father, with a significant little nod. "I
don't wish to lose you, and I'm more afraid of Merwyn than of all the rest together."

"More afraid of HIM!" exclaimed the girl, with widening eyes.

"Of him."

"Why?"

"Because you don't understand him."

"That's an excellent reason for keeping him at a distance."

"Reason, reason. What has reason to do with affairs of this kind?"

"Much, in my case, I assure you. Thank you for forewarning me so plainly."

"I've no dark designs against your peace."

Nevertheless, these half-jesting words foreshadowed the future, so far as Mr. Vosburgh and
Mr. Merwyn were concerned. Others were usually present when the latter called, and he always
seemed to enjoy a quiet talk with the elder man. Mrs. Vosburgh never failed in her cordiality,
or lost hope that his visits might yet lead to a result in accordance with her wishes. Marian
made much sport of their protege, as she called him, and, since she now treated him with the
same courtesy that other mere calling acquaintances received, the habit of often spending part
of the evening at the modest home grew upon him. Mr. Vosburgh soon discovered that the young
man was a student of American affairs and history. This fact led to occasional visits by the
young man to the host's library, which was rich in literature on these subjects.

On one stormy evening, which gave immunity from other callers, Marian joined them, and was
soon deeply interested herself. Suddenly becoming conscious of the fact, she bade them an abrupt
good-night and went to her room with a little frown on her brow.

"It's simply exasperating," she exclaimed, "to see a young fellow of his inches absorbed in
American antiquities when the honor and liberty of America are at stake. Then, at times, he
permits such an expression of sadness to come into his big black eyes! He is distant enough,
but I can read his very thoughts, and he thinks me obduracy itself. He will soon return to
his elegant home and proceed to be miserable in the most luxurious fashion. If he were riding
with Mr.  Lane, to-night, on a raid, he would soon distinguish between his cherished woe and
a soldier's hardships."

Nevertheless, she could do little more than maintain a mental protest at his course, in which
he persevered unobtrusively, yet unfalteringly. There was no trace of sentiment in his manner
toward her, nor the slightest conscious appeal for sympathy. His conversation was so intelligent,
and at times even brilliant, that she could not help being interested, and she observed that
he resolutely chose subjects of an impersonal character, shunning everything relating to himself.
She could not maintain any feeling approaching contempt, and the best intrenchment she could
find was an irritated perplexity. She could not deny that his face was growing strong in its
manly beauty. Although far paler and thinner than when she had first seen it, a heavy mustache
and large, dark, thoughtful eyes relieved it from the charge of effeminacy. Every act, and
even his tones, indicated high breeding, and she keenly appreciated such things. His reserve
was a stimulus to thought, and his isolated life was unique for one in his position, while
the fact that he sought her home and society with so little to encourage him was strong and
subtle homage. More than all, she thought she recognized a trait in him which rarely fails
to win respect,--an unfaltering will. Whatever his plans or purposes were, the impression grew
stronger in her mind that he would not change them.

"But I have a pride and a will equal to his," she assured herself. "He can come thus far and
no farther. Papa thinks I will yield eventually to his persistence and many fascinations. Were
this possible, no one should know it until he had proved himself the peer of the bravest and
best of my time."

Winter had passed, and spring brought not hope and gladness, but deepening dread as the hour
approached when the bloody struggle would be renewed. Mr. Lane had participated in more than
one cavalry expedition, but had received no wounds. Strahan was almost ready to return, and
had sent much good material to the thinned ranks of his regiment. His reward came promptly,
for at that late day men were most needed, and he who furnished them secured a leverage beyond
all political influence. The major in his regiment resigned from ill-health, and Strahan was
promoted to the vacancy at once. He received his commission before he started for the front,
and he brought it to Marian with almost boyish pride and exultation. He had called for Merwyn
on his way, and insisted on having his company. He found the young fellow nothing loath.

Merwyn scarcely entertained the shadow of a hope of anything more than that time would soften
Marian's feelings toward him. The war could not last forever. He was surprised by one. It was
just after dark on the road coming from Milianca and asked to induce the Caid from the adjoining
tribe to start up a battle when we got back.Talking about the vast number of wild boars he could set
a hunter's heart jump in his chest.When we went to bed in a shelter built to keep the cold away
I slept as deep as a tired traveller could.
Hoping to get some reliable information on how good the hunting was I consulted in the Caid's
lieutenant who was a handsome man. I was thrilled to learn his name was Abd-el-Kader, a man with
the famous name as the chief but was no relation. He told us a long story of how he had captured
a boar that some Arabs had wounded by catching it by the hoofs muzzled it and took it home alive.He
also told us the story of being surprised by a lion as he was coming back from Milianah at dusk.There
was lots of lions in the area and he promised us a lion hunt with
his friend the Caid on our trip back.

Abd-el-Kader accompanied us showing us a short cut over the mountains to the caravanserai of Oued-el-Massin
where we would spend the night and would find our luggage.

We had expected to find the river running high and we were not disappointed.

Abd-el-Kader wanted me to wait on the bank while he went into the water to see if he could get
through.He came back and asked if I had a good horse and would I
follow him.When I said yes he told me to watch the opposite shore
and not to look at the water because as rough as it was I would be
washed away and drowned.



"Then I am sure there is greater reason for my leave-taking at present. I am an utter stranger
to the bride, and feel that my presence would seem an intrusion to her, at least. Nothing at
this time should detract from her happiness. Good-evening."

Marian felt the force of his words, and was also compelled to recognize his delicate regard
for the feelings of one in humble station. She would have permitted him to depart, but Mr.
Vosburgh interposed quickly: "Wait a moment, Mr. Merwyn; I picked up a rare book, down town,
relating to the topic we were discussing the other evening. Suppose you go up to my library.
I'll join you there, for the ceremony will soon be over. Indeed, we are now expecting the groom,
his best man, and the minister. It so happens that the happy pair are Protestants, and so we
can have an informal wedding."

"Oh, stay, Merwyn," said Strahan. "It was I who brought you here, and I shouldn't feel that
the evening was complete without you."

The former looked doubtfully at Marian, who added, quickly: "You cannot refuse papa's invitation,
Mr. Merwyn, since it removes the only scruple you can have. It is, perhaps, natural that the
bride should wish to see only familiar faces at this time, and it was thoughtful of you to
remember this, but, as papa says, the affair will soon be over."

"And then," resumed Strahan, "I have a little pie to show you, Miss Marian, in which Merwyn
had a big finger."

"I thought that was an affair between ourselves," said Merwyn, throwing off his overcoat.

"Oh, do not for the world reveal any of Mr. Merwyn's secrets!" cried the girl.

"It is no secret at all to you, Miss Marian, nor did I ever intend that it should be one,"
Strahan explained.

"Mr. Merwyn, you labor under a disadvantage in your relations with Mr. Strahan. He has friends,
and friendship is not based on reticence."

"Therefore I can have no friends, is the inference, I suppose."

"That cannot be said while I live," began the young officer, warmly; but here a ring at the
door produced instant dispersion. "I suppose I can be present," Strahan whispered to Marian.
"Barney Ghegan is an older acquaintance of mine than of yours, and your pretty waitress has
condescended to smile graciously on me more than once, although my frequent presence at your
door must have taxed her patience."

"You have crossed her palm with too much silver, I fear, to make frowns possible. Silver, indeed!
when has any been seen? But money in any form is said to buy woman's smiles."

"Thank Heaven it doesn't buy yours."

"Hush! Your gravity must now be portentous."

The aggressive Barney, now a burly policeman, had again brought pretty Sally Maguire to terms,
and on this evening received the reward of his persistent wooing. After the ceremony and a
substantial supper, which Mrs. Vosburgh graced with her silver, the couple took their brief
wedding journey to their rooms, and Barney went on duty in the morning, looking as if all the
world were to his mind.

When Mr. Vosburgh went up to his library his step was at first unnoted, and he saw his guest
sitting before the fire, lost in a gloomy revery. When observed, he asked, a little abruptly:
"Is the matter to which Mr. Strahan referred a secret which you wish kept?"

"Oh, no! Not as far as I am concerned. What I have done is a bagatelle. I merely furnished
a little money for recruiting purposes."

"It is not a little thing to send a good man to the front, Mr. Merwyn."

"Nor is it a little thing not to go one's self," was the bitter reply. Then he added, hastily,
"I am eager to see the book to which you refer."

"Pardon me, Mr. Merwyn, your words plainly reveal your inclination. Would you not be happier
if you followed it?"

"I cannot, Mr. Vosburgh, nor can I explain further. Therefore, I must patiently submit to all
adverse judgment." The words were spoken quietly and almost wearily.

"I suppose that your reasons are good and satisfactory."

"They are neither good nor satisfactory," burst out the young man with sudden and vindictive
impetuosity. "They are the curse of my life. Pardon me. I am forgetting myself. I believe you
are friendly at least. Please let all this be as if it were not." Then, as if the possible
import of his utterance had flashed upon him, he drew himself up and said, coldly, "If, under
the circumstances, you feel I am unworthy of trust--"

"Mr. Merwyn," interrupted his host, "I am accustomed to deal with men and to be vigilantly
on my guard. My words led to what has passed between us, and it ends here and now. I would
not give you my hand did I not trust you. Come, here is the book;" and he led the way to a
conversation relating to it.

Merwyn did his best to show a natural interest in the subject, but it was evident that a tumult
had been raised in his mind difficult to control. At last he said: "May I take the book home?
I will return it after careful reading."

Mr. Vosburgh accompanied him to the drawing-room, and Marian sportively introduced him to Major
Strahan.

For a few minutes he was the gayest and most brilliant member of the party, and then he took
his leave, the young girl remarking, "Since you have a book under your arm we cannot hope to
detain you, for I have observed that, with your true antiquarian, the longer people have been
dead the more interesting they become."

"That is perfectly natural," he replied, "for we can form all sorts of opinions about them,
and they can never prove that we are wrong."

"More's the pity, if we are wrong. Good-night."

"Order an extra chop, Merwyn, and I'll breakfast with you," cried Strahan. "I've only two days
more, you know."

"Well, papa," said Marian, joining him later in the library, "did you and Mr. Merwyn settle
the precise date when the Dutch took Holland?"

"'More's the pity, if we ARE wrong!' I have been applying your words to the living rather than
to the dead."

"To Mr. Merwyn, you mean."

"Yes."

"Has he been unbosoming himself to you?"

"Oh, no, indeed!"

"Why then has he so awakened your sympathy?"

"I fear he is facing more than any of your friends."

"And, possibly, fear is the reason."

"I do not think so."

"It appears strange to me, papa, that you are more ready to trust than I am. If there is nothing
which will not bear the light, why is he so reticent even to his friend?"

"I do not know the reasons for his course, nor am I sure that they would seem good ones to
me, but my knowledge of human nature is at fault if he is not trustworthy. I wish we did know
what burdens his mind and trammels his action. Since we do not I will admit, to-night, that
I am glad you feel toward him just as you do."

"Papa, you entertain doubts at last."

"No, I admit that something of importance is unknown and bids fair to remain so, but I cannot
help feeling that it is something for which he is not to blame. Nevertheless, I would have
you take no steps in the dark, were the whole city his."

"O papa! you regard this matter much too seriously. What steps had I proposed taking? How much
would it cost me to dispense with his society altogether?"

"I do not know how much it might cost you in the end."

"Well, you can easily put the question to the test."

"That I do not propose to do. I shall not act as if what may be a great misfortune was a fault.
Events will make everything clear some day, and if they clear him he will prove a friend whom
I, at least, shall value highly. He is an unusual character, one that interests me greatly,
whatever future developments may reveal. It would be easy for me to be careless or arbitrary,
as I fear many fathers are in these matters. I take you into my confidence and reveal to you
my thoughts. You say that your reason has much to do with this matter.  I take you at your
word. Suspend judgment in regard to Merwyn. Let him come and go as he has done. He will not
presume on such courtesy, nor do you in any wise commit yourself, even to the friendly regard
that you have for others. For your sake, Marian, for the chances which the future may bring,
I should be glad if your heart and hand were free when I learn the whole truth about this young
fellow. I am no match-maker in the vulgar acceptation of the word, but I, as well as you, have
a deep interest at stake. I have informed myself in regard to Mr. Merwyn, senior. The son appears
to have many of the former's traits. If he can never meet your standard or win your love that
ends the matter. But, in spite of everything, he interests you deeply, as well as myself; and
were he taking the same course as your friend who has just left, he would stand a better chance
than that friend. You see how frank I am, and how true to my promise to help you."

Marian came and leaned her arm on his shoulder as she looked thoughtfully into the glowing grate.

At last she said: "I am grateful for your frankness, papa, and understand your motives. Many
girls would not make the sad blunders they do had they such a counsellor as you, one who can
be frank without being blunt and unskilful. In respect to these subjects, even with a daughter,
there must be delicacy as well as precision of touch."

"There should also be downright common-sense, Marian, a recognition of tacts and tendencies,
of what is and what may be. On one side a false delicacy often seals the lips of those most
interested, until it is too late to speak; on the other, rank, wealth, and like advantages
are urged without any delicacy at all. These have their important place, but the qualities
which would make your happiness sure are intrinsic to the man. You know it is in my line to
disentangle many a snarl in human conduct. Look back on the past without prejudice, if you
can. Merwyn virtually said that he would make your standard of right and wrong his,--that he
would measure things as you estimate them, with that difference, of course, inherent in sex.
Is he not trying to do so? Is he not acting, with one exception, as you would wish? Here comes
in the one thing we don't understand. As you suggest, it may be a fatal flaw in the marble,
but we don't know this. The weight of evidence, in my mind, is against it. His course toward
Strahan--one whom he might easily regard as a rival--is significant. He gave him far more than
money; he drained his own vitality in seeking to restore his friend to health. A coarse, selfish
man always cuts a sorry figure in a sick-room, and shuns its trying duties even in spite of
the strongest obligations. You remember Mrs. Strahan's tribute to Merwyn. Yet there was no
parade of his vigils, nor did he seek to make capital out of them with you. Now I can view
all these things dispassionately, as a man, and, as I said before, they give evidence of an
unusual character. Apparently he has chosen a certain course, and he has the will-power to
carry it out. Your heart, your life, are still your own. All I wish is that you should not
bestow them so hastily as not to secure the best possible guaranties of happiness.  This young
man has crossed your path in a peculiar way. You have immense influence over him. So far as
he appears free to act you influence his action. Wait and see what it all means before you
come to any decision about him. Now," he concluded, smiling, "is my common-sense applied to
these affairs unnatural or unreasonable?"

"I certainly can wait with great equanimity," she replied, laughing, "and I admit the reasonableness
of what you say as you put it. Nor can I any longer affect any disguises with you. Mr. Merwyn
DOES interest me, and has retained a hold upon my thoughts which has annoyed me. He has angered
and perplexed me. It has seemed as if he said, 'I will give you so much for your regard; I
will not give, however, what you ask.' As you put it to-night, it is the same as if he said,
'I cannot.' Why can he not? The question opens unpleasant vistas to my mind. It will cost me
little, however, to do as you wish, and my curiosity will be on the qui vive, if nothing more."

CHAPTER XXV.

A CHAINED WILL.

IN due time Strahan departed, hopeful and eager to enter on the duties pertaining to his higher
rank. He felt that Marian's farewell had been more than she had ever given him any right to
expect. Her manner had ever been too frank and friendly to awaken delusive hopes, and, after
all, his regard for her was characterized more by boyish adoration than by the deep passion
of manhood. To his sanguine spirit the excitement of camp and the responsibilities of his new
position formed attractions which took all poignant regret from his leave-taking, and she was
glad to recognize this truth. She had failed signally to carry out her self-sacrificing impulse,
when he was so ill, to reward his heroism and supplement his life with her own; and she was
much relieved to find that he appeared satisfied with the friendship she gave, and that there
was no need of giving more. Indeed, he made it very clear that he was not a patriotic martyr
in returning to the front, and his accounts of army life had shown that the semi-humorous journal,
kept by himself and Blauvelt, was not altogether a generous effort to conceal from her a condition
of dreary duty, hardship, and danger. Life in the field has ever had its fascinations to the
masculine nature, and her friends were apparently finding an average enjoyment equal to her
own. She liked them all the better for this, since, to her mind, it proved that that the knightly
impulses of the past were unspent,--that, latent in the breasts of those who had seemed mere
society fellows, dwelt the old virile forces.

"I shall prove," she assured herself, proudly, "that since true men are the same now as when
they almost lived in armor, so ladies in their bowers have favors only for those to whom heroic
action is second nature."

Blauvelt had maintained the journal during Strahan's absence, doing more with pencil than pen,
and she had rewarded him abundantly by spicy little notes, full of cheer and appreciation.
She had no scruples in maintaining this correspondence, for in it she had her father's sanction,
and the letters were open to her parents' inspection when they cared to see them. Indeed, Mr.
and Mrs. Vosburgh enjoyed the journal almost as much as Marian herself.

After Strahan's departure, life was unusually quiet in the young girl's home. Her father was
busy, as usual, and at times anxious, for he was surrounded by elements hostile to the government.
Aware, however, that the army of the Potomac was being largely reinforced, that General Hooker
was reorganizing it with great success, and that he was infusing into it his own sanguine spirit,
Mr. Vosburgh grew hopeful that, with more genial skies and firmer roads, a blow would be struck
which would intimidate disloyalty at the North as well as in the South.

Marian shared in this hopefulness, although she dreaded to think how much this blow might cost
her, as well as tens of thousands of other anxious hearts.

At present her mind was at rest in regard to Mr. Lane, for he had written that his regiment
had returned from an expedition on which they had encountered little else than mud, sleet,
and rain. The prospects now were that some monotonous picket-duty in a region little exposed
to danger would be their chief service, and that they would be given time to rest and recruit.

This lull in the storm of war was Merwyn's opportunity. The inclement evenings often left Marian
unoccupied, and she divided her time between her mother's sitting-room and her father's library,
where she often found her quondam suitor, and not infrequently he spent an hour or two with
her in the parlor. In a certain sense she had accepted her father's suggestions. She was studying
the enigma with a lively curiosity, as she believed, and had to admit to herself that the puzzle
daily became more interesting. Merwyn pleased her fastidious taste and interested her mind,
and the possibilities suggested by her own and her father's words made him an object of peculiar
and personal interest. The very uniqueness of their relations increased her disposition to
think about him. It might be impossible that he should ever become even her friend; he might
become her husband. Her father's remark, "I don't know how much it might cost you to dismiss
him finally," had led to many questionings. Other young men she substantially understood. She
could gauge their value, influence, and attractiveness almost at once; but what possibilities
lurked in this reticent man who came so near her ideal, yet failed at a vital point? The wish,
the effort to understand him, gave an increasing zest to their interviews. He had asked her
to be his wife. She had understood him then, and had replied as she would again if he should
approach her in a similar spirit. Again, at any hour he would ask her hand if she gave him
sufficient encouragement, and she knew it. He would be humility itself in suing for the boon,
and she knew this also, yet she did not understand him at all. His secret fascinated her, yet
she feared it. It must be either some fatal flaw in his character, or else a powerful restraint
imposed from without. If it was the former she would shrink from him at once; if the latter,
it would indeed be a triumph, a proof of her power, to so influence him that he would make
her the first consideration in the world.

Every day, however, increased her determination to exert this influence only by firmly maintaining
her position. If he wished her friendship and an equal chance with others for more, he must
prove himself the equal of others in all respects. By no words would she ever now hint that
he should take their course; but she allowed herself to enhance his motives by permitting him
to see her often, and by an alluring yet elusive courtesy, of which she was a perfect mistress.

This period was one of mingled pain and pleasure to Merwyn. Remembering his interview with
Mr. Vosburgh, he felt that he had been treated with a degree of confidence that was even generous.
But he knew that from Mr. Vosburgh he did not receive full trust,--that there were certain
topics which each touched upon with restraint. Even with the father he was made to feel that
he had reached the limit of their friendly relations. They could advance no farther unless
the barrier of his reserve was broken down.

He believed that he was dissipating the prejudices of the daughter; that she was ceasing to
dislike him personally. He exerted every faculty of his mind to interest her; he studied her
tastes and views with careful analysis, that he might speak to her intelligently and acceptably.
The kindling light in her eyes, and her animated tones, often proved that he succeeded. Was
it the theme wholly that interested her? or was the speaker also gaining some place in her
thoughts? He never could be quite certain as to these points, and yet the impression was growing
stronger that if he came some day and said, quietly, "Good-by, Miss Vosburgh, I am going to
face every danger which any man dare meet," she would give him both hands in friendly warmth,
and that there would be an expression on her face which had never been turned towards him.

A stormy day, not far from the middle of April, ended in a stormier evening. Marian had not
been able to go out, and had suffered a little from ennui. Her mother had a headache, Mr. Vosburgh
had gone to keep an appointment, and the evening promised to be an interminable one to the
young girl. She unconsciously wished that Merwyn would come, and half-smilingly wondered whether
he would brave the storm to see her.

She was not kept long in suspense, for he soon appeared with a book which he wished to return,
he said.

"Papa is out," Marian began, affably, "and you will have to be content with seeing me. You
have a morbidly acute conscience, Mr. Merwyn, to return a book on a night like this."

"My conscience certainly is very troublesome."

Almost before she was aware of it the trite saying slipped out, "Honest confession is good
for the soul."

"To some souls it is denied, Miss Vosburgh;" and there was a trace of bitterness in his tones.
Then, with resolute promptness, he resumed their usual impersonal conversation.

While they talked, the desire to penetrate his secret grew strong upon the young girl. It was
almost certain that they would not be interrupted, and this knowledge led her to yield to her
mood. She felt a strange relenting towards him. A woman to her finger-tips, she could not constantly
face this embodied mystery without an increasing desire to solve it. Cold curiosity, however,
was not the chief inspiration of her impulse. The youth who sat on the opposite side of the
glowing grate had grown old by months as if they were years. His secret was evidently not only
a restraint, but a wearing burden. By leading her companion to reveal so much of his trouble
as would give opportunity for her womanly ministry, might she not, in a degree yet unequalled,
carry out her scheme of life to make the "most and best of those over whom she had influence"?

"Many brood over an infirmity, a fault, or an obligation till they grow morbid," she thought.
"I might not be able to show him what was best and right, but papa could if we only knew."

Therefore her words and tones were kinder than usual, and she made slight and delicate references
to herself, that he might be led to speak of himself. At last she hit upon domestic affairs
as a safe, natural ground of approach, and gave a humorous account of some of her recent efforts
to learn the mysteries of housekeeping, and she did not fail to observe his wistful and deeply-interested
expression.

Suddenly, as if it were the most natural thing in the world, she remarked: "I do not see how
you manage to keep house in that great, empty mansion of yours."

"You know, then, where I live?"

"Oh, yes. I saw you descend the steps of a house on Madison Avenue one morning last fall, and
supposed it was your home."

"You were undoubtedly right. I can tell you just how I manage, or rather, how everything IS
managed, for I have little to do with the matter. An old family servant looks after everything
and provides me with my meals. She makes out my daily menu according to her 'own will,' which
is 'sweet' if not crossed."

"Indeed! Are you so indifferent? I thought men gave much attention to their dinners."

"I do to mine, after it is provided. Were I fastidious, old Cynthy would give me no cause for
complaint. Then I have a man who looks after the fires and the horses, etc. I am too good a
republican to keep a valet. So you see that my domestic arrangements are simple in the extreme."

"And do those two people constitute your whole household?" she asked, wondering at a frankness
which seemed complete.

"Yes. The ghosts and I have the house practically to ourselves most of the time."

"Are there ghosts?" she asked, laughing, but with cheeks that began to burn in her kindling
interest.

"There are ghosts in every house where people have lived and died; that is, if you knew and
cared for the people. My father is with me very often!"

"Mr. Merwyn, I don't understand you!" she exclaimed, without trying to disguise her astonishment.
The conversation was so utterly unlike anything that had occurred between them before that
she wondered whither it was leading. "I fear you are growing morbid," she added.

"I hope not. Nor will you think so when I explain. Of course nothing like gross superstition
is in my mind. I remember my father very well, and have heard much about him since he died.
Therefore he has become to me a distinct presence which I can summon at will. The same is true
of others with whom the apartments are associated. If I wish I can summon them."

"I am at a loss to know which is the greater, your will or your imagination."

"My imagination is the greater."

"It must be great, indeed," she said, smiling alluringly, "for I never knew of one who seemed
more untrammelled in circumstances than you are, or more under the dominion of his own will."

"Untrammelled!" he repeated, in a low, almost desperate tone.

"Yes," she replied, warmly,--"free to carry out every generous and noble impulse of manhood.
I tell you frankly that you have led me to believe that you have such impulses."

His face became ashen in its hue, and he trembled visibly. He seemed about to speak some words
as if they were wrung from him, then he became almost rigid in his self-control as he said,
"There are limitations of which you cannot dream;" and he introduced a topic wholly remote
from himself.

A chill benumbed her very heart, and she scarcely sought to prevent it from tingeing her words
and manner. A few moments later the postman left a letter. She saw Lane's handwriting and said,
"Will you pardon me a moment, that I may learn that my FRIEND is well?"

Glancing at the opening words, her eyes flashed with excitement as she exclaimed: "The campaign
has opened! They are on the march this stormy night."

"May I ask if your letter is from Strahan?" Merwyn faltered.

"It is not from Mr. Strahan," she replied, quietly.

He arose and stood before her as erect and cold as herself. "Will you kindly give Mr. Vosburgh
that book?" he said.

"Certainly."

"Will you also please say that I shall probably go to my country place in a day or two, and
therefore may not see him again very soon."

She was both disappointed and angry, for she had meant kindly by him. The very consciousness
that she had unbent so greatly, and had made what appeared to her pride an unwonted advance,
incensed her, and she replied, in cold irony: "I will give papa your message. It will seem
most natural to him, now that spring has come, that you should vary your mercantile with agricultural
pursuits."

He appeared stung to the very soul by her words, and his hands clinched in his desperate effort
to restrain himself. His white lips moved as he looked at her from eyes full of the agony of
a wounded spirit. Suddenly his tense form became limp, and, with a slight despairing gesture,
he said, wearily: "It is of no use. Good-by."

CHAPTER XXVI.

MARIAN'S INTERPRETATION OF MERWYN.

Shallow natures, like shallow waters, are easily agitated, and outward manifestations are in
proportion to the shallowness.  Superficial observers are chiefly impressed by visible emotion
and tumult.

With all her faults, Marian had inherited from her father a strong nature. Her intuitions had
become womanly and keen, and Merwyn's dumb agony affected her more deeply than a torrent of
impetuous words or any outward evidence of distress. She went back to her chair and shed bitter
tears; she scarcely knew why, until her father's voice aroused her by saying, "Why, Marian
dear, what IS the matter?"

"Oh, I am glad you have come," she said. "I have caused so much suffering that I feel as if
I had committed a crime;" and she gave an account of the recent interview.

"Let me reassure you," said her father, gravely. "You did mean kindly by Merwyn, and you gave
him, without being unwomanly, the best chance he could possibly have to throw off the incubus
that is burdening his life. If, with the opportunity he had to-night, and under the influence
of his love, he did not speak, his secret is one of which he cannot speak. At least, I fear
it is one of which he dares not speak to you, lest it should be fatal to him and all his hopes.
I cannot even guess what it is, but at all events it is of a serious nature, too grave to be
regarded any longer as secondary in our estimate of Mr. Merwyn's character. The shadow of this
mystery must not fall on you, and I am glad he is going away. I hoped that your greater kindness
and mine might lead him to reveal his trouble, that we could help him, and that a character
in many respects so unique and strong might be cleared of its shadows. In this case we might
not only have rendered a fellow-being a great service, but also have secured a friend capable
of adding much to our happiness.  This mystery, however, proves so deep-rooted and inscrutable
that I shall be glad to withdraw you from his influence until time and circumstance make all
plain, if they ever can. These old families often have dark secrets, and this young man, in
attaining his majority and property, has evidently become the possessor of one of them. In
spite of all his efforts to do well it is having a sinister influence over his life, and this
influence must not extend to yours. The mere fact that he does not take an active part in the
war is very subordinate in itself. Thousands who might do this as well as he are very well
content to stay at home. The true aspect of the affair is this: A chain of circumstances, unforeseen,
and uncaused by any premeditated effort on our part, has presented to his mind the most powerful
motives to take a natural part in the conflict. It has gradually become evident that the secret
of his restraint is a mystery that affects his whole being. Therefore, whether it be infirmity,
fault, or misfortune, he has no right to impose it on others, since it seems to be beyond remedy.
Do you not agree with me?"

"I could not do otherwise, papa. Yet, remembering how he looked to-night, I cannot help being
sorry for him, even though my mind inclines to the belief that constitutional timidity restrains
him. I never saw a man tremble so, and he turned white to his very lips. Papa, have you read
'The Fair Maid of Perth'?"

"Yes."

"Don't you remember MacIan, the young chief of Clan Quhele? This character always made a deep
impression on me, awakening at the same time pity and the strongest repulsion. I could never
understand him.  He was high-born, and lived at an age when courage was the commonest of traits,
while its absence was worse than crime. For the times he was endowed with every good quality
except the power to face danger.  This from the very constitution of his being he could not
do, and he, beyond all others, understood his infirmity, suffering often almost mortal agony
in view of it. For some reason I have been led to reread this story, and, in spite of myself,
that wretched young Scottish chieftain has become associated in my mind with Willard Merwyn.
He said to-night that his imagination was stronger than his will. I can believe it from his
words. His dead father and others have become distinct presences to him. In the same way he
calls up before his fancy the horrors of a battle-field, and he finds that he has not the power
to face them, that he cannot do it, no matter what the motives may be. He feels that he would
be simply overwhelmed with horror and faint-heartedness, and he is too prudent to risk the
shame of exposure."

"Well," said her father, sighing, as if he were giving up a pleasing dream, "you have thought
out an ingenious theory which, if true, explains Merwyn's course, perhaps. A woman's intuitions
are subtle, and often true, but somehow it does not satisfy me, even though I can recall some
things which give color to your view. Still, whatever be the explanation, all MUST be explained
before we can give him more than ordinary courtesy."

It soon became evident that Merwyn had gone to his country place, for his visits ceased. The
more Marian thought about him,--and she did think a great deal,--the more she was inclined
to believe that her theory explained everything. His very words, "You think me a coward," became
a proof, in her mind, that he was morbidly sensitive on this point, and ever conscious of his
infirmity. He was too ready to resent a fancied imputation on his courage.

She strove to dismiss him from her thoughts, but with only partial success. He gave her the
sense of being baffled, defeated. What could be more natural than that a high-spirited young
man should enter the army of his own free will? He had not entered it even with her favor,
possibly her love, as a motive. Yet he sought her favor as if it were the chief consideration
of existence. With her theory, and her ideal of manhood, he was but the mocking shadow of a
man, but so real, so nearly perfect, that she constantly chafed at the defect. Even her father
had been deeply impressed by the rare promise of his young life,--a promise which she now believed
could never be kept, although few might ever know it.

"I must be right in my view," she said. "He proves his loyalty by an unflagging interest in
our arms, by the gift of thousands. He is here, his own master. He would not shun danger for
the sake of his cold-hearted mother, from whom he seems almost estranged. His sisters are well
provided for, and do not need his care. He does not live for the sake of pleasure, like many
other young men. Merciful Heaven! I blush even to think the words, much more to speak them.
Why does he not go, unless his fear is greater than his love for me? why is he not with Lane
and Strahan, unless he has a constitutional dread that paralyzes him? He is the Scottish chieftain,
MacIan, over again. All I can do now is to pity him as one to whom Nature has been exceedingly
cruel, for every fibre in my being shrinks from such a man."

And so he came to dwell in her mind as one crippled, from birth, in his very soul.

Meanwhile events took place which soon absorbed her attention. Lane's letter announcing the
opening of the campaign proved a false alarm, although, from a subsequent letter, she learned
that he had had experiences not trifling in their nature. On the rainy night, early in April,
that would ever be memorable to her, she had said to Merwyn, "The army is on the march."

This was true of the cavalry corps, and part of it even crossed the upper waters of the Rappahannock;
but the same storm which dashed the thick drops against her windows also filled the river to
overflowing, and the brave troopers, recalled, had to swim their horses in returning. Lane
was among these, and his humorous account of the affair was signed, "Your loyal amphibian!"

A young girl of Marian's temperament is a natural hero-worshipper, and he was becoming her
hero. Circumstances soon occurred which gave him a sure place in this character.

By the last of April, not only the cavalry, but the whole army, moved, the infantry taking
position on the fatal field of Chancellorsville. Then came the bloody battle, with its unspeakable
horrors and defeat. The icy Rappahannock proved the river of death to thousands and thousands
of brave men.

Early in May the Union army, baffled, depleted, and discouraged, was again in its old quarters
where it had spent the winter. Apparently the great forward movement had been a failure, but
it was the cause of a loss to the Confederate cause from which it never recovered,--that of
"Stonewall" Jackson. So transcendent were this man's boldness and ability in leading men that
his death was almost equivalent to the annihilation of a rebel army. He was a typical character,
the embodiment of the genius, the dash, the earnest, pure, but mistaken patriotism of the South.
No man at the North more surely believed he was right than General Jackson, no man more reverently
asked God's blessing on efforts heroic in the highest degree. He represented the sincere but
misguided spirit which made every sacrifice possible to a brave people, and his class should
ever be distinguished from the early conspirators who were actuated chiefly by ambition and
selfishness.

His death also was typical, for he was wounded by a volley fired, through misapprehension,
by his own men. The time will come when North and South will honor the memory of Thomas J.
Jackson, while, at the same time, recognizing that his stout heart, active brain, and fiery
zeal were among the chief obstructions to the united and sublime destiny of America. The man's
errors were due to causes over which he had little control; his noble character was due to
himself and his faith in God.

Many days passed before Marian heard from Lane, and she then learned that the raid in which
he had participated had brought him within two miles of Richmond, and that he had passed safely
through great dangers and hardships, but that the worst which he could say of himself was that
he was "prone to go to sleep, even while writing to her."

The tidings from her other friends were equally reassuring. Their regiment had lost heavily,
and Blauvelt had been made a captain almost in spite of himself, while Strahan was acting as
lieutenant-colonel, since the officer holding that rank had been wounded. There was a dash
of sadness and tragedy in the journal which the two young men forwarded to her after they had
been a few days in their old camp at Falmouth, but Strahan's indomitable humor triumphed, and
their crude record ended in a droll sketch of a plucked cock trying to crow. She wrote letters
so full of sympathy and admiration of their spirit that three soldiers of the army of the Potomac
soon recovered their morale.

The month of May was passing in mocking beauty to those whose hopes and happiness were bound
up in the success of the Union armies. Not only had deadly war depleted Hooker's grand army,
but the expiration of enlistments would take away nearly thirty thousand more. Mr. Vosburgh
was aware of this, and he also found the disloyal elements by which he was surrounded passing
into every form of hostile activity possible within the bounds of safety. Men were beginning
to talk of peace, at any cost, openly, and he knew that the Southern leaders were hoping for
the beginning at any time of a counter-revolution at the North. The city was full of threatening
rumors, intrigues, and smouldering rebellion.

Marian saw her father overwhelmed with labors and anxieties, and letters from her friends reflected
the bitterness then felt by the army because the North appeared so half-hearted.

"Mr. Merwyn, meanwhile," she thought, "is interesting himself in landscape-gardening. If he
has one spark of manhood or courage he will show it now."

The object of this reproach was living almost the life of a hermit at his country place, finding
no better resource, in his desperate unrest and trouble, than long mountain rambles, which
brought physical exhaustion and sleep.

He had not misunderstood Marian's final words and manner.  Delicately, yet clearly, she had
indicated the steps he must take to vindicate his character and win her friendship. He felt
that he had become pale, that he had trembled in her presence. What but cowardice could explain
his manner and account for his inability to confirm the good impression he had made by following
the example of her other friends? From both his parents he had inherited a nature sensitive
to the last degree to any imputation of this kind. To receive it from the girl he loved was
a hundred-fold more bitter than death, yet he was bound by fetters which, though unseen by
all, were eating into his very soul. The proud Mrs. Merwyn was a slave-holder herself, and
the daughter of a long line of slave-owners; but never had a bondsman been so chained and crushed
as was her son. For weeks he felt that he could not mingle with other men, much less meet the
girl to whom manly courage was the corner-stone of character.

One evening in the latter part of May, as Mr. Vosburgh and his family were sitting down to
dinner, Barney Ghegan, the policeman, appeared at their door with a decent-looking, elderly
colored woman and her lame son. They were refugees, or "contrabands," as they were then called,
from the South, and they bore a letter from Captain Lane.

It was a scrap of paper with the following lines pencilled upon it:--

"MR. VOSBURGH, No. -- -- ST.: I have only time for a line. Mammy Borden will tell you her story
and that of her son. Their action and other circumstances have enlisted my interest. Provide
them employment, if convenient. At any rate, please see that they want nothing, and draw on
me. Sincere regard to you all.--In haste,

"LANE, Captain.-- --U.S. Cav."

It can be well understood that the two dusky strangers, recommended by words from Lane, were
at once invested with peculiar interest to Marian. Many months had elapsed since she had seen
him, but all that he had written tended to kindle her imagination. This had been the more true
because he was so modest in his accounts of the service in which he had participated. She had
learned what cavalry campaigning meant, and read more meaning between the lines than the lines
themselves conveyed. He was becoming her ideal knight, on whom no shadow rested. From first
to last his course had been as open as the day, nor had he, in any respect, failed to reach
the highest standard developed by those days of heroic action.

If this were true when "Mammy Borden" and her son appeared, the reader can easily believe that,
when they completed their story, Captain Lane was her Bayard sans peur et sans reproche.

Barney explained that they had met him in the street and asked for Mr. Vosburgh's residence;
as it was nearly time for him to be relieved of duty he told them that in a few moments he
could guide them to their destination. Marian's thanks rewarded him abundantly, and Mrs. Vosburgh
told him that if he would go to the kitchen he should have a cup of coffee and something nice
to take home to his wife. They both remained proteges of the Vosburghs, and received frequent
tokens of good-will and friendly regard. While these were in the main disinterested, Mr. Vosburgh
felt that in the possibilities of the future it might be to his advantage to have some men
in the police force wholly devoted to his interests.

The two colored refugees were evidently hungry and weary, and, eager as Marian was to learn
more of her friend when informed that he had been wounded, she tried to content herself with
the fact that he was doing well, until the mother and son had rested a little and had been
refreshed by an abundant meal. Then they were summoned to the sitting-room, for Mr. and Mrs.
Vosburgh shared in Marian's deep solicitude and interest.

It was evident that their humble guests, who took seats deferentially near the door, had been
house-servants and not coarse plantation slaves, and in answer to Mr. Vosburgh's questions
they spoke in a better vernacular than many of their station could employ.

"Yes, mass'r," the woman began, "we seed Mass'r Lane,--may de Lord bress 'im,--and he was a
doin' well when we lef. He's a true Linkum man, an' if all was like him de wah would soon be
ended an' de cullud people free. What's mo', de white people of de Souf wouldn't be so bitter
as dey now is."

"Tell us your story, mammy," said Marian, impatiently; "tell us everything you know about Captain
Lane."

A ray of intelligence lighted up the woman's sombre eyes, for she believed she understood Marian's
interest, and at once determined that Lane's action should lose no embellishment which she
could honestly give.

"Well, missy, it was dis away," she said. "My mass'r and his sons was away in de wah. He own
a big plantation an' a great many slabes. My son, Zeb dar, an' I was kep' in de house. I waited
on de missus an' de young ladies, an' Zeb was kep' in de house too, 'kase he was lame and 'kase
dey could trus' him wid eberyting an' dey knew it.

"Well, up to de time Cap'n Lane come we hadn't seen any ob de Linkum men, but we'd heared ob
de prockermation an' know'd we was free, far as Mass'r Linkum could do it, an' Zeb was jus'
crazy to git away so he could say, 'I'se my own mass'r.' I didn't feel dat away, 'kase I was
brought up wid my missus, an' de young ladies was a'most like my own chillen, an' we didn't
try to get away like some ob de plantation han's do.

"Well, one ebenin', short time ago, a big lot ob our sogers come marchin' to our house--dey
was hoss sogers--an' de missus an' de young ladies knew some of de ossifers, an' dey flew aroun'
an' got up a big supper fo' dem. We all turned in, an' dar was hurry-skurry all ober de big
house, fo' de ossifers sed dey would stay all night if de sogers ob you-uns would let dem.
Dey said de Linkum sogers was comin' dat away, but dey wouldn't be 'long afore de mawnin',
an' dey was a-gwine to whip dem. All was light talk an' larfin' an' jingle ob sabres. De house
was nebber so waked up afo'. De young ladies was high-strung an' beliebed dat one ob our sogers
could whip ten Linkum men. In de big yard betwixt de house an' de stables de men was feedin'
dere hosses, an' we had a great pot ob coffee bilin' fo' dem, too, an' oder tings, fo' de missus
sed dere sogers mus' hab eberyting she had.

"Well, bimeby, as I was helpin' put de tings on de table, I heared shots way off at de foot
ob de lawn. Frontin' de house dar was a lawn mos' half a mile long, dat slope down to de road,
and de Linkum sogers was 'spected to come dat away, an' dere was a lookout for dem down dar.
As soon as de ossifers heared de shots dey rush out an' shout to dere men, an' dey saddle up
in a hurry an' gallop out in de lawn in front of de house an' form ranks."

"How many were there?" Marian asked, her cheeks already burning with excitement.

"Law, missy, I doesn't know. Dere was a right smart lot--hundreds I should tink."

"Dere was not quite two hundred, missy," said Zeb; "I counted dem;" and then he looked towards
his mother, who continued.

"De young ladies an' de missus went out on de verandy dat look down de lawn, and Missy Roberta,
de oldest one, said, 'Now, maumy, you can see the difference between our sogers an' de Linkum
men, as you call dem.' Missy Roberta had great black eyes an' was allus a-grievin' dat she
wasn't a man so she could be a soger, but Missy S'wanee had blue eyes like her moder, an' was
as full ob frolic as a kitten. She used ter say, 'I doesn't want ter be a man, fer I kin make
ten men fight fer me.' So she could, sho' 'nuff, fer all de young men in our parts would fight
de debil hisself for de sake ob Missy S'wanee."

"Go on, go on," cried Marian; "the Northern soldiers were coming--"

"Deed, an' dey was, missy,--comin' right up de lawn 'fore our eyes, an' dribin' in a few ob
our sogers dat was a-watchin' fer dem by de road; dey come right 'long too. I could see dere
sabres flashin' in de sunset long way off. One ossifer set dere men in ranks, and den de oder
head ossifer come ridin' up to de verandy, an' Missy Roberta gave de ribbin from her ha'r to
de one dey call cunnel, an' de oder ossifer ask Missy S'wanee fer a ribbin, too. She larf an'
say, 'Win it, an' you shall hab it.' Den off dey gallop, Missy Roberta cryin' arter dem, 'Don't
fight too fa' away; I want to see de Linkum hirelin's run.' Den de words rung out, 'For'ard,
march, trot,' an' down de lawn dey went. De Linkum men was now in plain sight. Zeb, you tell
how dey look an' what dey did. I was so afeard fer my missus and de young ladies, I was 'mos'
out ob my mind."

"Well, mass'r and ladies," said Zeb, rising and making a respectful bow, "I was at an upper
window an' could see eberyting. De Linkum men was trottin' too, an' comin' in two ranks, one
little way 'hind de toder. Right smart way afore dese two ranks was a line of calvary-men a
few feet apart from each oder, an' dis line reach across de hull lawn to de woods on de oder
side. I soon seed dat dere was Linkum sogers in de woods, too. Dey seemed sort ob outside sogers
all aroun' de two ranks in de middle. Dey all come on fas', not a bit afeard, an' de thin line
in front was firin' at our sogers dat had been a-watchin' down by de road, an' our sogers was
a-firin' back.

"Bimeby, soon, bofe sides come nigh each oder, den de thin line ob Linkum men swept away to
de lef at a gallop, an' our sogers an' de fust rank ob Linkum men run dere hosses at each oder
wid loud yells.  'Clar to you, my heart jus' stood still. Neber heard such horrid noises, but
I neber took my eyes away, for I beliebed I saw my freedom comin'. Fer a while I couldn't tell
how it was gwine; dere was nothin' but clash ob sabres, an' bofe sides was all mixed up, fightin'
hand ter hand.

"I was wonderin' why de second rank of Linkum men didn't do nothin', for dey was standin' still
wid a man on a hoss, out in front ob dem.  Suddenly I heard a bugle soun', an' de Linkum men
dat was fightin' gave way to right an' lef, an' de man on de hoss wave his sword an' start
for'ard at a gallop wid all his men arter him. Den our sogers 'gan to give back, fightin' as
dey came. Dey was brave, dey was stubborn as mules, but back dey had to come. De head Linkum
ossifer was leadin' all de time. I neber seed such a man, eberyting an' eberybody guv way afo'
him. De oder Linkum sogers dat I thought was whipped wasn't whipped at all, fer dey come crowdin'
aroun' arter de head ossifer, jes' as peart as eber.

"Front ob de house our ossifers an' sogers made a big stan', fer de missus an' de young ladies
stood right dar on de verandy, wabin' dere hankerchiefs an' cryin' to dem to dribe de Yankee
back. I knowed my moder was on de verandy, an' I run to her, an' sho' 'nuff, dar she was stan'in'
right in front of Missy S'wanee an' 'treating de missus an' de young ladies ter go in, fer
de bullets was now flyin' tick. But dey wouldn't go in, an' Missy Roberta was wringin' her
han's, an' cryin', 'Oh, dat I was a man!' De cunnel, de oder ossifer, an' a lot ob our sogers
wouldn't give back an inch. Dar dey was, fightin' right afore our eyes. De rest ob dere sogers
was givin' way eb'rywhar. De Linkum sogers soon made a big rush togedder. De cunnel's hoss
went down. In a minute dey was surrounded; some was killed, some wounded, an' de rest all taken,
'cept de young ossifer dat Missy S'wanee tole to win her colors. He was on a po'ful big hoss,
an' he jes' break right through eb'ryting, an' was off wid de rest. De Linkum sogers followed
on, firin' at 'em.

"De missus fainted dead away, an' my moder held her in her arms. De head Linkum ossifer now
rode up to de verandy an' took off his hat, an' he say: 'Ladies, I admire your co'age, but
you should not 'spose yourselves so needlessly. Should de vict'ry still remain wid our side,
I promise you 'tection an 'munity from 'noyance!'

"Den he bow an' gallop arter his men dat was chasin' our sogers, leabin' anoder ossifer in
charge ob de pris'ners. De head Linkum man was Cap'n Lane."

"I knew it, I knew it," cried Marian. "Ah! he's a friend to be proud of."

Her father and mother looked at her glowing cheeks and flashing eyes, and dismissed Merwyn
from the possibilities of the future.

CHAPTER XXVIIL

The Signal Light.

The colored woman again took up the thread of the story which would explain her presence and
her possession of a note from Captain Lane, recommending her and her son to Mr. Vosburgh's
protection.

"Yes, missy," she said, "Cap'n Lane am a fren' ter be proud ob. I tinks he mus' be like Mass'r
Linkum hisself, fer dere nebber was a man more braver and more kinder. Now I'se gwine ter tell
yer what happen all that drefful night, an' Zeb will put in his word 'bout what he knows. While
de cap'n was a-speakin' to de young ladies, de missus jes' lay in my arms as ef she was dead.
Missy Roberta, as she listen, stand straight and haughty, an' give no sign she hear, but Missy
S'wanee, she bow and say, 'Tank you, sir!' Zeb called some ob de house-servants, an' we carry
de missus to her room, an' de young ladies help me bring her to. Den I stayed wid her, a-fannin'
her an' a-cheerin' an' a-tellin' her dat I knew Cap'n Lane wouldn't let no harm come ter dem.
Now, Zeb, you seed what happen downstars."

"Yes, mass'r an' ladies, I kep' my eyes out, fer I tinks my chance is come now, if eber. Cap'n
Lane soon come back an' said to de ossifer in charge ob de pris'ners,--an' dere was more pris'ners
bein' brought in all de time,--sez Cap'n Lane, 'De en'my won't stand agin. I'se sent Cap'n
Walling in pursuit, an' now we mus' make prep'rations fer de night.' Den a man dey call a sergeant,
who'd been a spyin' roun' de kitchen, an' lookin' in de dinin'-room winders, come up an' say
something to Cap'n Lane; an' he come up to de doah an' say he like ter see one ob de ladies.
I call Missy S'wanee, an' she come, cool an' lady-like, an' not a bit afeard, an' he take off
his hat to her, an' say:--

"'Madam, I'se sorry all dis yer happen 'bout yer house, but I'se could not help it. Dere's
a good many woun'ed, an' our surgeon is gwine ter treat all alike. I'se tole dat yer had coffee
a-bilin' an' supper was ready. Now all I ask is, dat de woun'ed on bofe sides shall have 'freshments
fust, an' den ef dere's anyting lef', I'd like my ossifers to have some supper.' Den he kinder
smile as he say, 'I know you 'spected oder company dis ebenin', an' when de woun'ed is provided
fer, de ossifers on your side can hab supper too. I hab ordered de hospital made in de out-buildin's,
an' de priv'cy ob your home shall not be 'truded on.'

"'Cunnel,' say Missy S'wanee. 'Plain Cap'n,' he say, interrupting--'Cap'n Lane.'

"'Cap'n Lane, she goes on, 'I tanks you fer your courtesy, an 'sideration. I did not 'spect
it. Your wishes shall be carried out.' Den she says, 'I'se'll hab more supper pervided, an'
we'll 'spect you wid your ossifers;' for she wanted ter make fren's wid him, seein' we was
all in his po'er. He says, 'No, madam, I'se take my supper wid my men. I could not be an unwelcome
gues' in any house, What I asks for my ossifers, I asks as a favor; I doesn't deman' it.' Den
he bows an' goes away. Missy S'wanee, she larf--she was allus a-larfin' no matter what happen--an'
she says, 'I'se'll get eben wid him.' Well, de cap'n goes an' speaks to de cunnel, an' de oder
captured ossifers ob our sogers, an' dey bow to him, an' den dey comes up an' sits on de verandy,
an' Missy Roberta goes out, and dey talk in low tones, an' I couldn't hear what dey say. I
was a-helpin' Missy S'wanee, an' she say to me, 'Zeb, could you eber tink dat a Yankee cap'n
could be such a gemlin?' I didn't say nuffin', fer I didn't want anybody ter'spect what was
in my min', but eb'ry chance I git I keep my eye on Cap'n Lane, fer I believed he could gib
us our liberty. He was aroun' 'mong de woun'ed, an' seein' ter buryin' de dead, an' postin'
an' arrangin' his men; deed, an' was all ober eberywhar.

"By dis time de ebenin' was growin' dark, de woun'ed and been cared for, an' our ossifers an'
de Linkum ossifers sat down to supper; an' dey talk an' larf as if dey was good fren's. Yer'd
tink it was a supper-party, ef dere hadn't been a strappin' big soger walkin' up an' down de
verandy whar he could see in de winders. I help waits on de table, an' Missy Roberta, she was
rudder still an' glum-like, but Missy S'wanee, she smiles on all alike, an' she say to de Linkum
ossifers, 'I 'predate de court'sy ob your cap'n, eben do' he doesn't grace our board. I shall
take de liberty, howsemeber, ob sendin' him some supper;' an' she put a san'wich an' some cake
an' a cup ob coffee on a waiter an' sen' me out to him whar he was sittin' by de fire in de
edge ob de woods on de lawn. He smile an' say, 'Tell de young lady dat I drink to her health
an' happier times.' Den I gits up my co'age an' says, 'Cap'n Lane, I wants ter see yer when
my work's done in de house.' He say, 'All right, come ter me here.' Den he look at me sharp
an' say, 'Can I trus' yer?' An' I say, 'Yes, Mass'r Cap'n; I'se Linkum, troo an' troo.' Den
he whisper in my ear de password, 'White-rose.'"

Marian remembered that she had given him a white rose when he had asked for her colors. He
had made it his countersign on the evening of his victory.

"Arter supper our ossifers were taken down ter de oder pris'ners, an' guards walk aroun dem
all night. I help clar up de tings, an' watch my chance ter steal away. At las' de house seem
quiet. I tought de ladies had gone ter dere rooms, an' I put out de light in de pantry, an'
was watchin' an' waitin' an' listenin' to be sho' dat no one was 'roun, when I heared a step
in de hall. De pantry doah was on a crack, an' I peeps out, an' my bref was nigh took away
when I sees a rebel ossifer, de one dat got away in de fight. He give a long, low whistle,
an' den dere was a rustle in de hall above, an' Missy Roberta came flyin' down de starway.
I know den dat dere was mischief up, an' I listen wid all my ears. She say to him, 'How awfully
imprudent!' An' she put de light out in de hall, les' somebody see in. Den she say, 'Shell
we go in de parlor?' He say, 'No, dere's two doahs here, each end de hall, an' a chance ter
go out de winders, too. I mus' keep open ebery line ob retreat. Are dere any Yanks in de house?'
She say, 'No,'--dat de Union cap'n very 'sid'rate. 'Curse him!' sed de reb; 'he spoil my ebenin'
wid Miss S'wanee, but tell her I win her colors yet, an' pay dis Yankee cap'n a bigger interest
in blows dan he eber had afo.' Den he 'splain how he got his men togedder, an' he foun' anoder
'tachment ob rebs, an' how dey would all come in de mawnin', as soon as light, an' ride right
ober eberyting, an' 'lease de cunnel an' all de oder pris'ners. Den he says, 'We'se a-comin'
on de creek-road. Put a dim light in de winder facin' dat way, an' as long as we see it burnin'
we'll know dat all's quiet an' fav'able, an' tell Missy S'wanee to hab her colors ready. Dey
tought I was one oh de Yanks in de dark, when I come in, but gettin' away'll be more tick'lish.'
Den she say, 'Don't go out ob de doah. Drap from de parlor winder inter de shrub'ry, an' steal
away troo de garden.' While dey was gone ter de parlor, I step out an' up de starway mighty
sudden. Den I whip aroun' to de beginnin' ob de garret starway an' listen. Soon Missy Roberta
come out de parlor an' look in de pantry an' de oder rooms, an' she sof'ly call me, 'kase she
know I was las' up 'round de house; but I'se ain't sayin' nuffin'. Den she go in de missus
room, whar my moder was, an' soon she and Missy S'wanee came out an' whisper, an' Missy S'wanee
was a-larfin' how as ef she was pleased.  Den Missy S'wanee go back to de missus, an' Missy
Roberta go to her room.

"Now was my chance, an' I tuck off'n my shoes an' carried dem, an' I tank de Lord I heared
it all, fer I says, 'Cap'n Lane'll give me my liberty now sho' 'nuff, when I tells him all.'
I'se felt sho' he'd win de fight in de mawnin', fer he seemed ob de winnin' kine. I didn't
open any ob de doahs on de fust floah, but stole down in de cellar, 'kase I knowed ob a winder
dat I could creep outen. I got away from de house all right, an' went toward de fire where
I lef Cap'n Lane. Soon a gruff voice said, 'Halt!' I guv de password mighty sudden, an' den
said, 'I want to see Cap'n Lane.' De man call anoder soger, an' he come an' question me, an'
den took me ter de cap'n. An' he was a-sleepin' as if his moder had rocked 'im! But he was
on his feet de moment he spoke to. He 'membered me, an' ask ef de mawnin' wouldn't answer.
I say, 'Mass'r Cap'n, I'se got big news fer yer.' Den he wide awake sho' 'nuff, an' tuck me
one side, an' I tole him all. 'What's yer name?' he says. 'Zeb Borden,' I answers.  Den he
say: 'Zeb, you've been a good fren'. Ef I win de fight in de mawnin' you shell hab your liberty.
It's yours now, ef you can get away.' I says I'se lame an' couldn't get away unless he took
me, an' dat I wanted my moder ter go, too. Den he tought a minute, an' went back ter de fire
an' tore out a little book de paper we brought, an' he says, 'What your moder's name?' An'
I says, 'Dey call her Maumy Borden.' Den he wrote de lines we bring, an' he says: 'No tellin'
what happen in de mawnin'. Here's some money dat will help you 'long when you git in our lines.
Dis my fust inderpendent comman', an' ef yer hadn't tole me dis I might a' los' all I gained.
Be faithful, Zeb; keep yer eyes an' ears open, an' I'll take care ob yer. Now slip back, fer
yer might be missed.'"

"I got back to my lof' mighty sudden, an' I was jis' a-shakin' wid fear, for I beliebe dat
Missy Roberta would a' killed me wid her own hands ef she'd knowed. She was like de ole mass'r,
mighty haughty an' despit-like, when she angry. I wasn't in de lof' none too soon, fer Missy
Roberta was 'spicious and uneasy-like, an' she come to de head ob de gerret starway an' call
my name. At fust I ain't sayin' suffin', an' she call louder. Den I say, 'Dat you, Missy Roberta?'
Den she seem to tink dat I was all right. I slipped arter her down de starway an' listen, an'
I know she gwine ter put de light in de winder. Den she go to her room again.

"A long time pass, an' I hear no soun'. De house was so still dat I done got afeard, knowin'
dere was mischief up. Dere was a little winder in my lof lookin' toward de creek-road, an'
on de leabes ob some trees I could see a little glimmer ob de light dat Missy Roberta had put
dar as a signal. Dat glimmer was jes' awful, fer I knowed it mean woun's and death to de sogers,
an' liberty or no liberty fer me. Bimeby I heared steps off toward de creek-road, but dey soon
die away. I watched an' waited ter'ble long time, an' de house an' all was still, 'cept de
tread ob de guards. Mus' a' been about tree in de mawnin' when I heared a stir. It was very
quiet-like, an' I hear no words, but now an' den dere was a jingle like a sabre make when a
man walk. I stole down de starway an' look outen a winder in de d'rection whar Cap'n Lane was,
an' I see dat de Linkum men had let all dere fires go out. It was bery dark. Den I hear Missy
Roberta open her doah, an' I whip back ter my lof. She come soon an' had a mighty hard time
wakin' me up. an' den she say: 'Zeb, dere's sumpen goin' on 'mong de Yankee sogers. Listen.'
I says, 'I doesn't hear nuffin'.' She says: 'Dere is; dey's a-saddlin' up, an' movin' roun'.
I want you ter steal outen an' see what dey is doin', an' tell me.' I says, 'Yes, missy.' I
tought de bole plan would be de bes' plan now, an' I put on my shoes an' went out. Putty soon
I comes back and says to her, 'I axed a man, an' he tole me dey was changin' de guard.'--'Did
de res' seem quiet?'--'Yes, missy, dey is sleepin' 'round under de trees.' She seemed greatly
'lieved, an' says, 'You watch aroun' an' tell me ef dere's any news.' I stole out again an'
crep' up 'hind some bushes, an' den I sho' dat de Linkum men was a-slippin' away toward de
creek-road, but de guards kep' walkin' 'roun de pris'ners, jes' de same. On a sudden dere was
a man right 'longside ob me, an' he say, 'Make a noise or move, an' you are dead. What are
you doin' here?' I gasp out, 'White-rose, Cap'n Lane.'--'Oh, it's you,' he say, wid a low larf.
Fo' I could speak dere come a scream, sich as I neber heared, den anoder an' anoder.  'Dey
comes from de missus' room.' Den he say, 'Run down dar an' ask de sergeant ob de guard to send
tree men wid you, an' come quick!' Now moder kin tell yer what happened. I had lef de back
hall doah unlocked, an' de cap'n went in like a flash."

"De good Lor' bress Cap'n Lane," began the colored woman, "fer he come just in time. De missus
had been wakin' an' fearful-like mos' ob de night, but at las' we was all a-dozin'. I was in
a char by her side, an' Missy S'wanee laid on a lounge. She hadn't undress, an' fer a long
time seemed as if listenin'. At las' dere come a low knock, an' we all started up. I goes to
de doah an' say, 'Who's dar?'--'A message from Cap'n Lane,' says a low voice outside. 'Open
de doah,' says Missy S'wanee; 'I'se not afeard ob him.' De moment I slip back de bolt, a big
man, wid a black face, crowds in an' say, 'Not a soun', as you valley your lives: I want yer
jewelry an' watches;' an' he held a pistol in his hand. At fust we tought it was a plantation
han', fer he tried ter talk like a cullud man, an' Missy S'wanee 'gan ter talk ter him; but
he drew a knife an' says, 'Dis won't make no noise, an' it'll stop yer noise ef yer make any.
Not a word, but gib up eberyting.' De missus was so beat out wid fear, dat she say, 'Gib him
eberyting.' An' Missy S'wanee, more'n half-dead, too, began to gib dere watches an' jewels.
De man put dem in his pocket, an' den he lay his hands on Missy S'wanee, to take off her ring.
Den she scream, an' I flew at 'im an' tried to tear his eyes out. Missy Roberta 'gan screamin',
so we knowed she was 'tacked too. De man was strong an' rough, an' whedder he would a' killed
us or not de Lord only knows, fer jes' den de doah flew wide open, an' Cap'n Lane stood dere
wid his drawn sword. In a secon' he seed what it all meant, an' sprung in an' grabbed de robber
by de neck an' jerked him outen inter de hall. Den de man 'gan ter beg fer mercy, an' tole
his name. It was one of Cap'n Lane's own sogers. At dis moment Missy Roberta rush outen her
room, cryin', 'Help!  murder!' Den we heared heaby steps rushing up de starway, an' tree ob
Cap'n Lane's sogers dash for'ard. As soon as Missy Roberta see de cap'n wid de light from de
open doah shinin' on his face, she comes an' ask, 'What does dis outrage mean?'--'It mean dat
dis man shell be shot in de mawnin', he say, in a chokin' kind ob voice, fer he seem almost
too angry to speak. Den he ask, 'Were you 'tacked also?'--' Yes,' she cried, 'dere's a man
in my room.'--'Which room?' An' she pointed to de doah. De fus' robber den made a bolt ter
get away, but de cap'n's men cotch 'im. 'Tie his han's 'hind his back, an' shoot him if he
tries to run agin,' said de cap'n; den he say to Missy Roberta: 'Go in your moder's room. Don't
leave it without my permission. Ef dere is a man in your room, he shall shar de fate ob dat
villain dat I've 'spected ob bein' a tief afore.' An' he went an' looken in Missy Roberta's
room. In a few moments he come back an' say, 'Dere was a man dar, but he 'scape troo de winder
on de verandy-roof. Ef I kin discober 'im he shall die too.' Den he say, grave an' sad-like:
'Ladies, dere is bad men in eb'ry army. I'se deeply mort'fied dat dis should happen. You'll
bar me witness dat I tried to save you from all 'noyance. I know dis man,' pointin' to a soger
dat stood near, 'an' I'll put him in dis hall on guard. His orders are--you hear dem--not to
let any one come in de hall, an' not to let any one leabe dis room. As long as yer all stay
in dis room, you are safe, eben from a word.' Missy S'wanee rush for'ard an' take his han',
an' say, 'Eben ef you is my en'my you'se a gallant soger an' a gemlin, an' I tanks you.' De
cap'n smile an' bow, an' say, 'In overcomin' your prej'dice I'se 'chieved my bes' vict'ry.'
An' he gib her back all de jewels an' watches, an' drew de doah to, an' lef us to ourselves.
Den we hear 'im go to a wes' room back ob de house wid anoder soger, an' soon he come back
alone, an' den de house all still 'cept de eben tread ob de man outside. Missy Roberta clasp
her han's an' look wild. Den she whisper to Missy S'wanee, an' dey seem in great trouble. Den
she go an' open de doah an' say to de soger dat she want ter go ter her room. 'You cannot,
lady,' said de soger. 'You heared my orders.'--'I'll only stay a minute,' she say. 'You cannot
pass dat doah,' said de soger. 'But I mus' an' will,' cried Missy Roberta, an' she make a rush
ter get out. De soger held her still. 'Unhan' me!' she almost screamed. He turn her 'roun'
an' push her back in de room, an' den says: 'Lady, does you tink a soger can disobey orders?
Dere ain't no use ob your takin' on 'bout dat light. We'se watch it all night as well as your
fren's, an' de cap'n has lef' a soger guardin' it, to keep it burnin'. Ef I should let yer
go, yer couldn't put it out, an' ef it had been put out any time, we'd a' lighted it agin.
So dere's nuffin' fer yer to do but 'bey orders an' shut de doah. Den no one will say a word
to yer, as de cap'n said.' Den he pulled de doah to hisself.

"Missy Roberta 'gan to wring her han's an' walk up an' down like a caged tiger, an' Missy S'wanee
larf and cry togedder as she say, 'Cap'n Lane too bright fer us.'--'No,' cries Missy Roberta,
'somebody's 'trayed me, an' I could strike a knife inter dere heart fer doin' it. O S'wanee,
S'wanee, our fren's is walkin' right inter a trap.' Den she run to de winder an' open it ter
see ef she couldn't git down, an' dere in de garden was a soger, a-walkin' up an' down a-watchin'.
'We jes' can't do nuffin',' she said, an' she 'gan to sob an' go 'sterical-like. Missy S'wanee
tole de missus, an' she wrung her han's an' cry, too; an' Missy S'wanee, she was a-larfin'
an' a-cryin', an' a-prayin' all ter once. Suddenly dere was a shot off toward de creek-road,
an' den we was bery still. Now.  Zeb, you know de res'!"

CHAPTER XXIX.

MARIAN CONTRASTS LANE AND MERWYN.

"Oh, come, this won't do at all," said Mr. Vosburgh, as Zeb was about to continue the story.
"It's nearly midnight now. Marian, dear, your cheeks and eyes look as if you had a fever. Let
us wait and hear the rest of the story in the morning, or you'll be ill, your mother will have
a headache, and I shall be unfit for my work to-morrow."

"Papa, papa, in pity don't stop them till we know all. If Captain Lane could watch all night
and fight in the morning, can't we listen for an hour longer?"

"Oh, yes," cried Mrs. Vosburgh, "let them finish. It's like a story, and I never could sleep
well till I knew how a story was going to turn out."

"Wait a moment and I'll bring everybody something nice from the sideboard, and you, also, papa,
a cigar from the library," cried the young girl.

Her father smiled his acquiescence, and in a few moments they were all ready to listen to the
completion of a tragedy not without its dash of comedy.

"Arter Cap'n Lane posted his guards in de house an' sent de robber off," Zeb resumed, "he jump
on a hoss an' gallop toward de creek-road. De light in de winder kep' a-burnin'! I foun' arterwards
dat he an' his ossifers had been down on de creek-road and studied it all out. At one place--whar
it was narrer' wid tick woods on bofe sides--dey had builded a high rail-fence. Den below dat
he had put sogers in de woods each side widout dere hosses, an' farder down still he had hid
a lot of men dat was mounted. Sho' 'nuff, wid de fust light of de mawnin', de rebs come ridin'
toward de light in de winder. I'd run out to de hill, not far away, ter see what would happen,
an' it was so dark yet dat eb'ryting was mixed up wid shadders. When de rebs was a-comin' by
de Linkum men in de woods a shot was fired. Den I s'pose de rebs tought it would gib de 'larm,
fer dey began ter run dere hosses for'ard. An' den de Linkum men let dem hab it on bofe sides
ob de road, but dey kep' on till dey come to de fence 'cross de road, an' den dey git a volley
in front. Dis skeered 'em, for dey knowed dat de Linkum men was ready, an' dey tried to git
back. Den I heared a great tramplin' an' yellin', an' dere was Cap'n Lane a-leadin' his men
an' hosses right in ahind dem.  Dere was orful fightin' fer a while, an' de men widout dere
hosses leap outen de woods and shot like mad. It was flash! bang! on eb'ry side. At las' de
Linkum men won de day, an' some ob de rebs burst troo de woods an' run, wid Cap'n Lane's men
arter dem, an' dey kep' a-chasin' till a bugle call dem back. Den I run to de house, fer dey
was bringin' in de pris'ners. Who should I see 'mong dese but de bery ossifer dat was wid Missy
Roberta de night afore, de one dat wanted de light in de winder, an' he look bery mad, I can
tell you.

"It was now gettin' broad day, an' de light at las' was outen de winder. Dere was nuffin' mo'
fer it to do. De Linkum soger dat had been in de house was now helpin' guard de pris'ners,
an' Missy Roberta an' Missy S'wanee run up to de ossifer dat had been so fooled an' say: 'We'se
couldn't help it. Somebody 'trayed us. We was kep' under guard, an' dere was a Yankee soger
a-keepin' de light burnin' arter we knew Cap'n Lane was aroun' an' ready.' Missy Roberta look
sharp at me, but I 'peared innercent as a sheep. Missy S'wanee say: 'No matter, Major Denham,
you did all dat a brave man could do, an' dar's my colors. You hab won dem.' An' den he cheer
up 'mazin'ly.

"Den I hear somebody say Cap'n Lane woun'ed, an' I slip out toward de creek-road, an' dar I
see dem a-carryin Cap'n Lane, an' de surgeon walkin' 'longside ob him. My heart jes' stood
still wid fear. His eyes was shut, an' he look bery pale-like. Dey was a-carryin' him up de
steps ob de verandy when Missy S'wanee came runnin' ter see what was de matter. Den Cap'n Lane
open his eyes an' he say: 'Not in here. Put me wid de oder woun'ed men; 'but Missy S'wanee
say, 'No; he protec' us an' act like a gemlin, an' he shall learn dat de ladies ob de Souf
will not be surpassed.' De missus say de same, but Missy Roberta frown an' say nuffin'. She
too much put out yet 'bout dat light in de winder an' de 'feat it brought her fren's. De cap'n
was too weak an' gone-like ter say anyting mo', an' dey carry him up ter de bes' company room.
I goes up wid dem ter wait on de surgeon, an' he 'zamin' de woun' an' gib de cap'n brandy,
an' at las' say dat de cap'n get well ef he keep quiet a few weeks,--dat he weak now from de
shock an' loss ob blood.

"In de arternoon hundreds more Linkum men come, an' Cap'n Lane's cunnel come wid dem, an' he
praise de cap'n an' cheer him up, an' de cap'n was bery peart an' say he feel better. Mos'
ob de ossifers take supper at de house. De missus an' Missy Roberta were perlite but bery cold-like,
but Missy S'wanee, while she show dat she was a reb down to de bottom ob her good, kine heart,
could smile an' say sunshiny tings all de same. Dis night pass bery quiet, an' in de mawnin'
de Linkum cunnel say he hab orders ter 'tire toward de Union lines. He feel bery bad 'bout
leabin' Cap'n Lane, but de surgeon say he mus' not be moved. He say, too, dat he stay wid de
cap'n an' de oder badly woun'ed men. De cap'n tell his cunnel 'bout me an' my moder an' what
he promise us, an' de cunnel say he take us wid him an' send us to Washin'on. De missus an'
de young ladies take on drefful 'bout our gwine, but I say, 'I mus' hab my liberty,' an' moder
say she can't part wid her own flesh an' blood--"

"Yes, yes, but what did 'Cap'n' Lane say?" interrupted Marian.

"He tole me ter say ter you, missy, dat he was gwine ter git well, an' dat you mus'n't worry
'kase you didn't hear from him, an' dat he know you'd be kine to us, 'kase I'd help him win
de vict'ry. De surgeon wrote some letters, too, an' gib dem to de Linkum cunnel. P'raps you
git one ob dem. Dey put us in an army wagon, an' bimeby we reach a railroad, an' dey gib us
a pass ter Washin'on, an' we come right on heah wid Cap'n Lane's money. I doesn't know what
dey did with de robber--"

"Oh, oh," cried Marian, "it may be weeks before I hear from my friend again, if I 'ever do."

"Marian, dear," said her father, "do not look on the dark side; it might have been a hundred-fold
worse. 'Cap'n' Lane was in circumstances of great comfort, with his own surgeon in care of
his wound. Think how many poor fellows were left on the field of Chancellorsville to Heaven
only knows what fate. In such desperate fighting as has been described we have much reason
to be thankful that he was not killed outright. He has justly earned great credit with his
superiors, and I predict that he will get well and be promoted. I think you will receive a
letter in a day or two from the surgeon. I prescribe that you and mamma sleep in the morning
till you are rested. I won't grumble at taking my coffee alone." Then, to the colored woman
and her son: "Don't you worry. We'll see that you are taken care of."

Late as it was, hours still elapsed before Marian slept. Her hero had become more heroic than
ever. She dwelt on his achievements with enthusiasm, and thought of his sufferings with a tenderness
never before evoked, while the possibility that "Missy S'wanee" was his nurse produced twinges
approaching jealousy.

As was expected, the morning post brought a letter from the surgeon confirming the account
that had been given by the refugees, and full of hope-inspiring words. Then for weeks there
were no further tidings from Lane.

Meanwhile, events were culminating with terrible rapidity, and their threatening significance
electrified the North. The Southern people and their sympathizers everywhere were jubilant
over the victory of Chancellorsville, and both demanded and expected that this success should
be followed by decisive victories. Lee's army, General Longstreet said, was "in a condition
of strength and morale to undertake anything," and Southern public sentiment and the needs
of the Richmond government all pointed towards a second and more extended invasion of the North.
The army was indeed strong, disciplined, a powerful instrument in the hands of a leader like
General Lee. Nevertheless, it had reached about the highest degree of its strength. The merciless
conscription in the South had swept into its ranks nearly all the able-bodied men, and food
and forage were becoming so scarce in war-wasted Virginia and other regions which would naturally
sustain this force, that a bold, decisive policy had become a necessity. It was believed that
on Northern soil the army could be fed, and terms of peace dictated.

The chief motive for this step was the hope of a counter-revolution in the North where the
peace faction had grown bold and aggressive to a degree that only stopped short of open resistance.
The draft or general conscription which the President had ordered to take place in July awakened
intense hostility to the war and the government on the part of a large and rapidly increasing
class of citizens. This class had its influential and outspoken leaders, who were evidently
in league with a secret and disloyal organization known as the "Knights of the Golden Circle,"
the present object of which was the destruction of the Union and the perpetuation of slavery.
In the city of New York the spirit of rebellion was as rampant in the breasts of tens of thousands
as in Richmond, and Mr. Vosburgh knew it. His great sagacity and the means of information at
his command enabled him to penetrate much of the intrigue that was taking place, and to guess
at far more. He became haggard and almost sleepless from his labors and anxieties, for he knew
that the loyal people of the North were living over a volcano.

Marian shared in this solicitude, and was his chief confidante. He wished her, with her mother,
to go to some safe and secluded place in the country, and offered to lease again the cottage
which they had occupied the previous summer, but Marian said that she would not leave him,
and that he must not ask her to do so. Mrs. Vosburgh was eventually induced to visit relatives
in New England, and then father and daughter watched events with a hundred-fold more anxiety
than that of the majority, because they were better informed and more deeply involved in the
issues at stake than many others. But beyond all thought of worldly interests, their intense
loyal feeling burned with a pure, unwavering flame.

In addition to all that occupied her mind in connection with her father's cares and duties,
she had other grounds for anxiety. Strahan wrote that his regiment was marching northward,
and that he soon expected to take part in the chief battle of the war. Every day she hoped
for some news from Lane, but none came. His wishes in regard to Mammy Borden and her son had
been well carried out. Mr.  Vosburgh had been led to suspect that the man in charge of his
offices was becoming rather too curious in regard to his affairs, and too well informed about
them. Therefore Zeb was installed in his place; and when Mrs. Vosburgh departed on her visit
Marian dismissed the girl who had succeeded Sally Maguire, and employed the colored woman in
her stead. She felt that this action would be pleasing to Lane, and that it was the very least
that she could do.

Moreover, Mammy Borden was what she termed a "character," one to whom she could speak with
something of the freedom natural to the ladies of the Southern household. The former slave
could describe a phase of life and society that was full of novelty and romance to Marian,
and "de young ladies," especially "Missy S'wanee," were types of the Southern girl of whom
she never wearied of hearing. From the quaint talk of her new servant she learned to understand
the domestic life of those whom she had regarded as enemies, and was compelled to admit that
in womanly spirit and dauntless patriotism they were her equals, and had proved it by facing
dangers and hardships from which she had been shielded. More than all, the old colored woman
was a protegee of Captain Lane and was never weary of chanting his praises.

Marian was sincerely perplexed by the attitude of her mind towards this young officer. He kindled
her enthusiasm and evoked admiration without stint. He represented to her the highest type
of manhood in that period of doubt, danger, and strong excitement. Brave to the last degree,
his courage was devoid of recklessness. The simple, untutored description of his action given
by the refugees had only made it all the more clear that his mind was as keen and bright as
his sword, while in chivalric impulses he had never been surpassed. Unconsciously Mammy Borden
and her son had revealed traits in him which awakened Marian's deepest respect, suggesting
thoughts of which she would not have spoken to any one. She had been shown his course towards
beautiful women who were in his power, and who at the same time were plotting his destruction
and that of his command. While he foiled their hostile purpose, no knight of olden times could
have shown them more thoughtful consideration and respect. She felt that her heart ought to
go out towards this ideal lover in utter abandon. Why did it not? Why were her pride, exultation,
and deep solicitude too near akin to the emotions she would have felt had he been her brother?
Was this the only way in which she could love? Would the sacred, mysterious, and irresistible
impulses of the heart, of which she had read, follow naturally in due time?

She was inclined to believe that this was true, yet, to her surprise, the thought arose unbidden:
"If Willard Merwyn were showing like qualities and making the same record--What absurdity is
this!" she exclaimed aloud. "Why does this Mr. Merwyn so haunt me, when I could not give him
even respect and friendship, although he sent an army into the field, yet was not brave enough
to go himself? Where is he? What is he doing in these supreme hours of his country's history?
Everything is at stake at the front, yes, and even here at the North, for I can see that papa
dreads unspeakably what each day may bring forth, yet neither this terrible emergency nor the
hope of winning my love can brace his timid soul to manly action. THE ASTEROIDS (OR LESS IMPORTANT
PLANETS)

We now come to that belt of small planets aka asteroids.

Generally, questionnaire of the solar system given in Chapter II.,
we watch how it was long ago noticed that the distances of the planetary
orbits from the sun would have presented a marked look of orderly
sequence, were it not for a gap between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter
where no big planet was known to orbit.

The doubt therefore aroused that some planet might, after all, be moving in this seemingly empty
space, gave rise to the gradual discovery of a great number of small bodies; the largest of which,
Ceres, is inferior than 500 miles in diameter. Up to the present day some 600 of these bodies
have been discovered; the four leading ones, in order of size, being named Ceres, Pallas, Juno,
and Vesta. All the asteroids are invisible to the naked eye, with the exception of Vesta, which,
though by no means the largest, happens to be the brightest. It is, however, only just visible
to the eye under favourable conditions. No trace of an atmosphere has been noted upon any of the
asteroids, but such a state of things is only to be expected from the kinetic theory.
During a good many years the discoveries of asteroids were obtained
throught the use of the telescope.

During the search of the heavens, an object was noticed which did not appear upon any of the recognised
star charts, it was kept under observation for several nights to see whether it changed its
place in the sky. Since asteroids move around the sun in orbits, just as planets do, they, of
course, quickly reveal themselves by their change of position against
the starry background.

1891 was the year that marked a new era in the discovery of asteroids. It occurred to the Heidelberg
observer, Dr. Max Wolf, one of the most famous of the hunters of these tiny planets, that photography
might be employed in the quest with success. This photographic method that cause allusion
has already been made in dealing with Eros, is an extremely simple
one.

If a photograph of a portion of the heavens be taken through an "equatorial"--that is, a telescope,
moving by machinery, so as to keep the stars, at which it is pointed, always exactly in the
field of view during their apparent movement across the sky--the images of these stars will
naturally come out in the photograph as sharply defined points. But if there happens to be
an asteroid, or other planetary body, in the same field of view, its image will come out as
a short white streak; because the body has a comparatively rapid motion of its own, and will,
during the period of exposure, have moved sufficiently against the
background of the stars to leave a short trail, instead of a dot,
upon the photographic plate.

By this method Wolf himself has succeeded in discovering more than a hundred asteroids (see
Plate XIII., p. 226). It was, indeed, a little streak of this kind, appearing upon a photograph
taken by the astronomer Witt, at Berlin, in 1898, which first informed
the world of the existence of Eros.

 That gentleman greeted the young man courteously, disguising his surprise and
curiosity.

"I have just returned from my country place," Merwyn began, "and shall not have to go there
very soon again, Can I call upon you as usual?"

"Certainly," replied Mr. Vosburgh; but there was no warmth in his tone.

"I have also a favor to ask," resumed Merwyn, with a slight deepening of color in his bronzed
face. "I have not been able to follow events very closely, but so far as I can judge there
is a prospect of severe battles and of sudden emergencies. If there is need of money, such
means as I have are at your disposal."

Even Mr. Vosburgh, at the moment, felt much of Marian's repulsion as he looked at the tall
youth, with his superb physique, who spoke of severe battles and offered "money." "Truly,"
he thought, "she must be right. This man will part with thousands rather than risk one drop
of blood."

But he was too good a patriot to reveal his impression, and said, earnestly: "You are right,
Mr. Merwyn. There will be heavy fighting soon, and all the aid that you can give the Sanitary
and Christian Commissions will tend to save life and relieve suffering."

Under the circumstances he felt that he could not use any of the young man's money, even as
a temporary loan, although at times the employment of a few extra hundreds might aid him greatly
in his work.

Merwyn went away chilled and saddened anew, yet feeling that his reception had been all that
he had a right to expect.

There had been no lack of politeness on Mr. Vosburgh's part, but his manner had not been that
of a friend.

"He has recognized that I am under some secret restraint," Merwyn thought, "and distrusts me
at last. He probably thinks, with his daughter, that I am afraid to go. Oh that I had a chance
to prove that I am, at least, not a coward! In some way I shall prove it before many weeks pass."

At dinner, that evening, Mr. Vosburgh smiled significantly at Marian, and said, "Who do you
think called on me to-day?"

"Mr. Merwyn," she said, promptly.

"You are right. He came to offer--"

"Money," contemptuously completing her father's sentence.

"You evidently think you understand him. Perhaps you do; and I admit that I felt much as you
do, to-day, when he offered his purse to the cause. I fear, however, that we are growing a
little morbid on this subject, and inclined to judgments too severe. You and I have become
like so many in the South. This conflict and its results are everything to us, and we forget
that we are surrounded by hundreds of thousands who are loyal, but are not ready for very great
sacrifices."

"We are also surrounded by millions that are, and I cast in my lot with these. If this is to
be morbid, we have plenty of company."

"What I mean is, that we may be too hard upon those who do not feel, and perhaps are not capable
of feeling, as we do."

"O papa! you know the reason why Mr. Merwyn takes the course he does."

"I know what you think to be the reason, and you may be right. Your explanation struck me with
more force than ever to-day; and yet, looking into the young fellow's face, it seems impossible.
He impresses me strangely, and awakens much curiosity as to his future course. He asked if
he could call as usual, and I, with ordinary politeness, said, 'Certainly.' Indeed, there was
a dignity about the fellow that almost compelled the word. I don't know that we have any occasion
to regret it. He has done nothing to forfeit mere courtesy on our part."

"Oh, no," said Marian, discontentedly; "but he irritates me. I wish I had never known him,
and that I might never meet him again. I am more and more convinced that my theory about him
is correct, and while I pity him sincerely, the ever-present consciousness of his fatal defect
is more distressing--perhaps I should say, annoying--than if he presented some strong physical
deformity. He is such a superb and mocking semblance of a man that I cannot even think of him
without exasperation."

"Well, my dear, perhaps this is one of the minor sacrifices that we must make for the cause.
Until Merwyn can explain for himself, he has no right to expect from us more than politeness.
While I would not take from him a loan for my individual work, I can induce him to give much
material help. In aiding Strahan, and in other ways, he has done a great deal, and he is willing
to do more. The prospects are that everything will be needed, and I do not feel like alienating
one dollar or one bit of influence. According to your theory his course is due to infirmity
rather than to fault, and so he should be tolerated, since he is doing the best he can. Politeness
to him will not compromise either our principles or ourselves."

"Well, papa, I will do my best; but if he had a particle of my intuition he would know how
I feel. Indeed, I believe he does know in some degree, and it seems to me that, if I were a
man, I couldn't face a woman while she entertained such an opinion."

"Perhaps the knowledge that you are wrong enables him to face you."

"If that were true he wouldn't be twenty-four hours in proving it."

"Well," said her father, with a grim laugh, and in a low voice, "he may soon have a chance
to show his mettle without going to the front. Marian, I wish you would join your mother. The
city is fairly trembling with suppressed disloyalty. If Lee marches northward I shall fear
an explosion at any time."

"Leave the city!" said the young girl, hotly. "That would prove that I possess the same traits
that repel me so strongly in Mr. Merwyn.  No, I shall not leave your side this summer, unless
you compel me to almost by force. Have we not recently heard of two Southern girls who cheered
on their friends in battle with bullets flying around them? After witnessing that scene, I
should make a pitiable figure in Captain Lane's eyes should I seek safety in flight at the
mere thought of danger. I should die with shame."

"It is well Captain Lane does not hear you, or the surgeon would have fever to contend with,
as well as wounds."

"O dear!" cried the girl. "I wish we could hear from him."

Mr. Vosburgh had nearly reached the conclusion that if the captain survived the vicissitudes
of the war he would not plead a second time in vain.

A few evenings later Merwyn called. Mr. Vosburgh was out, and others were in the drawing-room.
Marian did not have much to say to him, but treated him with her old, distant politeness. He
felt her manner, and saw the gulf that lay between them, but no one unacquainted with the past
would have recognized any lack of courtesy on her part.

Among the exciting topics broached was the possibility of a counter-revolution at the North.
Merwyn noticed that Marian was reticent in regard to her father and his opinions, but he was
startled to hear her say that she would not be surprised if violent outbreaks of disloyalty
took place any hour, and he recognized her courage in remaining in the city. One of the callers,
an officer in the Seventh Regiment, also spoke of the possibility of all the militia being
ordered away to aid in repelling invasion.

Merwyn listened attentively, but did not take a very active part in the conversation, and went
away with the words "counter-revolution" and "invasion" ringing in his ears.

He became a close student of the progress of events, and, with his sensitiveness in regard
to the Vosburghs, adopted a measure that taxed his courage. The district school was about half
a mile north and was kept in what was called the VanPetten school house. Here, it was where the
author first attended school; which was taught that summer by Miss
Rachel Lester, now Mrs. McFadden.

For seven seasons, I attended school there under the instruction of different teachers. These teachers
were Miss Sarah J. McCrea, now Mrs. George Turner, Mr. Emerson Crane, Mr. Matthew VanPetten,
Obediah Cooper, Dennis Cooper, John B. VanPetten and others. Up until the time of my mother's death,
which occured January 17, 1845, just before I was fifteen years old, I had attended school summer
and winter.

I did not attend the part of the last two summers, when I was obliged to stay at home to assist
in the farm work. Being easy for me to learn, I acquired a fair education in the primary branches
for a boy of my 14 years.

At the death of my mother, the only legacy I had inherited was a robust appearance, a cheerful disposition,
and the ability to always look on the bright side of life. These characteristics were inherited
from my mother, as she saw what others perceived as insurmountable obstacles as an incentive
to become more determined.

My mother's household duties included working the loom and the spinning
wheel, and up to the time of her death, there were very few clothes
worn by the family that she did not weave and make into garments. Moreover,
before the month elapsed he had reason to believe that he would receive a letter from his mother
giving him freedom. Therefore, Mr. Vosburgh was left with all his old doubts and perplexities
unrelieved, and Marian's sinister theory was confirmed rather than weakened.

Merwyn, however, was no longer despondent. The swift march of events might give him the opportunities
he craved. He was too young not to seize on the faintest hope offered by the future, and the
present period was one of reaction from the deep dejection that, for a time, had almost paralyzed
him in the country.

Even as a boy he had been a sportsman, and a good shot with gun, rifle, and pistol, but now
he began to perfect himself in the use of the last-named weapon. He arranged the basement of
his house in such a way that he could practise with his revolvers, and he soon became very
proficient in the accuracy and quickness of his aim.

According to the press despatches of the day, there was much uncertainty in regard to General
Lee's movements and plans. Mr. Vosburgh's means of information led him to believe that the
rebel army was coming North, and many others shared the fear; but as late as June 15, so skilfully
had the Confederate leader masked his purposes, that, according to the latest published news,
the indications were that he intended to cross the Rappahannock near Culpepper and inaugurate
a campaign similar to the one that had proved so disastrous to the Union cause the preceding
summer.

On the morning of the 16th, however, the head-lines of the leading journals startled the people
through the North. The rebel advance had occupied Chambersburg, Pa. The invasion was an accomplished
fact. The same journals contained a call from the President for 100,000 militia, of which the
State of New York was to furnish 20,000. The excitement in Pennsylvania was intense, for not
only her capital, but her principal towns and cities were endangered. The thick-flying rumors
of the past few days received terrible confirmation, and, while Lee's plans were still shrouded
in mystery, enough was known to awaken apprehension, while the very uncertainty proved the
prolific source of the most exaggerated and direful stories. There was immense activity at
the various armories, and many regiments of the city militia expected orders to depart at any
hour. The metropolis was rocking with excitement, and wherever men congregated there were eager
faces and excited tones.

Behind his impassive manner, when he appeared in the street, no one disguised deeper feeling,
more eager hope, more sickening fear, than Willard Merwyn. When would his mother's letter come?
If this crisis should pass and he take no part in it he feared that he himself would be lost.

Since his last call upon Marian he felt that he could not see her again until he could take
some decided course; but if there were blows to be struck by citizens at the North, or if his
mother's letter acceded to his wish, however grudgingly, he could act at once, and on each
new day he awoke with the hope that he might be unchained before its close.

The 17th of June was a memorable day. The morning press brought confirmation of Lee's northward
advance. The men of the Quaker City were turning out en masse, either to carry the musket or
for labor on fortifications, and it was announced that twelve regiments of the New-York militia
were under marching orders. The invasion was the one topic of conversation. There was an immense
revival of patriotism, and recruiting at the armories went on rapidly. At this outburst of
popular feeling disloyalty shrunk out of sight for a time, and apparently the invaders who
had come north as allies of the peace party created an uprising, as they had expected, but
it was hostile to them.

The people were reminded of the threats of the Southern leaders. The speech of Jeff Davis in
the winter of 1860-61 was quoted: "If war should result from secession, it will not be our
fields that will witness its ravages, but those of the North."

The fact that this prediction was already fulfilled stung even the half-hearted into action,
and nerved the loyalty of others, and when it became known that the gallant Seventh Regiment
would march down Broadway en route for Pennsylvania at noon, multitudes lined the thoroughfare
and greeted their defenders with acclamations.

Merwyn knew that Marian would witness the departure, and he watched in the distance till he
saw her emerge from her home and go to a building on Broadway in which her father had secured
her a place. She was attended by an officer clad in the uniform of a service so dear to her,
but which HE had sworn never to wear. He hastily secured a point of observation in a building
opposite, for while the vision of the young girl awakened almost desperate revolt at his lot,
he could not resist a lover's impulse to see her. Pale, silent, absorbed, he saw her wave her
handkerchief and smile at her friends as they passed; he saw a white-haired old lady reach
out her hands in yearning love, an eloquent pantomime that indicated that her sons were marching
under her eyes, and then she sank back into Marian's arms.

"Oh," groaned Merwyn, "if that were my mother I could give her a love that would be almost
worship."

CHAPTER XXXI.

"I'VE LOST MY CHANCE."

During the remainder of the 17th of June and for the next few days, the militia regiments of
New York and Brooklyn were departing for the seat of war. The city was filled with conflicting
rumors. On the 19th it was said that the invaders were returning to Virginia. The questions
"Where is Lee, and what are his purposes? and what is the army of the Potomac about?" were
upon all lips.

On the 20th came the startling tidings of organized resistance to the draft in Ohio, and of
troops fired upon by the mob. Mr. Vosburgh frowned heavily as he read the account at the breakfast-table
and said: "The test of my fears will come when the conscription begins in this city, and it
may come much sooner. I wish you to join your mother before that day, Marian!"

"No," she said, quietly,--"not unless you compel, me to."

"I may be obliged to use my authority," said her father, after some thought. "My mind is oppressed
by a phase of danger not properly realized. The city is being stripped of its loyal regiments,
and every element of mischief is left behind."

"Papa, I entreat you not to send me away while you remain. I assure you that such a course
would involve far greater danger to me than staying with you, even though your fears should
be realized. If the worst should happen, I might escape all harm. If you do what you threaten,
I could not escape a wounded spirit." 

Bartlett provides a "Reverie Poétique" - a climax of success, a scholarly inspiration. His scherzo
will be very welcome to the meagre body of American scherzos for
its festivity and originality.

Its richly harmonized interlude shows is a great gain in strength as well as individuality and
a complete emancipation from the overpowering influence of Chopin.
In his songs Bartlett has a quality uniformly higher than that of his pieces for piano. The
delicacies of harmony in "Moonbeams" are pleasing and "Laughing Eyes" is a fitting setting of Mr.
"Nym Crinkle" Wheeler's exquisite lyric. "Come to Me, Dearest" has nice details but is unfortunately
cheap in general design.
Bartlett contributed largely to "The St. Nicholas Song Book," a collection of children's songs. His
lyrics are unique and enjoyable, and "I Had a Little Pony" will become a nursery classic. 
It
surprises me to praise a song about a brooklet; but the truth is, that Bartlett's "I Hear the Brooklet's
Murmur" is superbly beautiful, regretful, and a noble song. It is one of his songs typifying
German style. It represents the late German type of Lied, as the earlier heavy style is exemplified
in "Good Night, Dear One." The airiness and grace of "Rosebud" is very Teutonic.
Not all of his work is pleasing.

In his "Lord God, Hear My Prayer," Bartlett rather disastrously attacks the Bach-Gounod "Ave Maria".
While Gounod is passionate and unrestrained, Bartlett is overly cautious. He chooses a Cramer
étude, and adds to it parts for voice, violin, and organ. Gen. Halleck, Commander-in-Chief, hung on the Union leader like the "Old
Man of the Sea." He misled the noble President, who, as a civilian. was ignorant of military
affairs, paralyzed tens of thousands of troops by keeping them where they could be of no practical
use, and by giving them orders of which General Hooker was not informed. The Comte de Paris
writes, "Lee's projects could not have been more efficiently subserved," and the disastrous
defeat of General Milroy confirms these words. It was a repetition of the old story of General
Miles of the preceding year, with the difference that Milroy was a gallant, loyal man, who
did all that a skilful officer could accomplish to avert the results of his superior's blundering
and negligence.

Hooker was goaded into resigning, and of the army of the Potomac the gifted French author again
writes, "Everything seemed to conspire against it, even the government, whose last hope it
was;" adding later: "Out of the 97,000 men thus divided (at Washington, Frederick, Fortress
Monroe, and neighboring points) there were 40,000, perfectly useless where they were stationed,
that might have been added to the army of the Potomac before the 1st of July. Thus reinforced,
the Union general could have been certain of conquering his adversary, and even of inflicting
upon him an irreparable disaster."

The fortunes of the North were indeed trembling in the balance. We had to cope with the ablest
general of the South and his great army, with the peace (?) faction that threatened bloody
arguments in the loyal States, and with General Halleck.

The people were asking: "Where is the army of the Potomac? What can it be doing, that the invasion
goes on so long unchecked?" At Gettysburg this patient, longsuffering army gave its answer.

Meanwhile the North was brought face to face with the direst possibilities, and its fears,
which history has proved to be just, were aroused to the last degree. The lull in the excitement
which had followed the first startling announcement of invasion was broken by the wildest rumors
and the sternest facts. The public pulse again rose to fever-heat. Farmers were flying into
Harrisburg, before the advancing enemy; merchants were packing their goods for shipment to
the North; and the panic was so general that the proposition was made to stop forcibly the
flight of able-bodied men from the Pennsylvanian capital.

As Mr. Vosburgh read these despatches in the morning paper, Marian smiled satirically, and
said: "You think that Mr. Merwyn is under some powerful restraint. I doubt whether he would
be restrained from going north, should danger threaten this city."

And many believed, with good reason, that New York City was threatened. Major-General Doubleday,
in his clear, vigorous account of this campaign writes: "Union spies who claimed to have counted
the rebel forces as they passed through Hagerstown made their number to be 91,000 infantry
and 280 guns. "Mr. Galton," said Herbert, who had completed the game and beat his sister, and could afford
to turn his attention to the frivolous fun of his elders. "Do you know what," Rose said , when she
saw you coming?

She said, "Oh, I'm so happy!"
"Herbert," begged Rose, blushing under these words carefully reported, and fear that Mr. Galton,
not knowing the motive which prompted it, would not know whether to be ecstatic or sarcastically,
"You're a terrible boy !
"Herbert has done me a great favor," said the gentleman, flattered, seeing the embarrassment
of Rose as very natural and very pleasant under the circumstances. "All my doubts are by this
welcome thrown away to make me happy."

In the fear that perhaps these doubts would unhappy return if he could talk with an overly friendly
younger brother, Rose devoted herself with nervous attention, entertainment, and succeeded more
brilliantly. Fragments of laughter and chat drove over to where Eva
wanted Allen to play checkers.

"Only one game, please, Mr. Dunlop," asked the little girl in irresistible accents.
"If you only knew what a miserable player I am," said the young man in gloom.
"Oh, you're a miserable player?" she exclaimed brightly, "I'm so happy. Then there will be some
chance for me." She added, confidentially, "I am still miserable."
"I hope you can never be for the same reason," said Allan, with a half-suppressed views of the lively
pair in the vicinity of the window.
A lover, of its nature, must be decided unhappy or very happy, and it is unlikely that perfect
happiness may reign in a heart, if his beautiful mistress spends her smile at another man. Allan
does not think Rose really cares for Mr. Galton - he had seen too much evidence to the contrary
- but he thought she was gave that gentleman every reason to believe that she cared. With how many
men has she pursued this approach, and was he to believe her guilty of careless coquetry? On how many
admirers, can a rose give up its perfume and still retain its sweet innocent heart for its
beloved?
These were the questions that rankled in his mind, while Eva set the pieces in place.
"Maybe I can stop you from getting to keep your king," she said triumphantly.
"If I can only keep my queen," said the young man distantly.
"But, Mr. Dunlop, there are no queens in this game, it is not like chess."
"As you can see how little I know about it," the answer was.
Despite this painful expression of the ignorance of the two fighters, for a while they seemed
to be very evenly matched. Then, the advantage was clearly on Allan's side. His king committed
terrible havoc among the scattered ranks of the enemy, until suddenly, as he watched the painful
tension of the little attention and warm colors in the face of his fair enemy, a strange and inexplicable
weariness fell on his troops. They seemed to be respected, whether they lived or died, while
her shameless commander, surveying it came with an anxious expression,
his emotion in such exclamations as, "Dear me!"

"Why did I not see that move?" or: "The idea that you are two men on a Jump!" Finally, the
announcement that he was completely defeated by Eva made happy, and
incredulous heard of Herbert, his sister saw with surprise opponents,
not with pity unmingled. 
"The battle is surely lost!" Herbert cited
the historic words in a comforting way, "but there is time to win
to another." 
"I am not afraid," said Allan, rising and preparing
to leave. 
"I wish you could have won the game, as well," said Eva,
suddenly stricken with remorse at the center of her good fortune.
"You are a very friendly little girl.
Yet what can I ever appear to be but a shrinking coward? An owner of slaves all her life, my
mother has made a slave of me. She has fettered my very soul. Oh! if there are to be outbreaks
at the North, let them come soon, or I shall die under the weight of my chains."

The dark tide of invasion rose higher and higher. At last the tidings came that Lee's whole
army was in Pennsylvania, that Harrisburg would be attacked before night, and that the enemy
were threatening Columbia on the northern bank of the Susquehanna, and would have crossed the
immense bridge which there spans the river, had it not been burned.

On the 27th, the Tribune contained the following editorial words: "Now is the hour. Whether it was
modesty, carelessness, indifference, or incompetence, some drawback or shortcoming that existed
until now affected the quality of his genius powerful and delicate, it is impossible for his most
ardent admirer and cordial to say or think its very Good thing that
really he is right - that it is adequately duties overwhelming fullness.

And yet it is certain that Lamb was entitled to no less than usual when Dekker said that "poetry enough for anything."
But it was not constructive enough power for a playwright trade - trade that has spent so many
years of labor tired badly requited.

This comedy, which we first find him associated with Middleton is well written and well made,
and quite diverting - especially to a goal or an uncritical reader: even if one may suspect that
such a heroine here depicted as a shrew virgin must have been in fact rather like Dr. Johnson
is correct friend Beth Flint of the lexicographer Great ", used to say that she was generally slut
and drunkard; occasional whore and thief" (Boswell, 8.5 .1781).

Closer parallel would be complete if Moll swindler, "wrote her life verse," and brought to room
Selden or bishop, with a request for it will provide a preface to it.
Middleton's play is not properly divisible in both tragic and comic
as realistic and romantic - the play of the engine is essentially
prosaic or photo and play the main engine which is fanciful or poetic.

Only two former class remain to be said: "Anything for a quiet life" and "a clean maid in Cheapside."


On July 3d, the loyal Tribune again sounded the note of deep alarm: "These are times that try
men's souls! The peril of our country's overthrow is great and imminent. The triumph of the
rebels distinctly and unmistakably involves the downfall of republican and representative institutions."

By a strange anomaly multitudes of the poor, the oppressed in other lands, whose hope for the
future was bound up in the cause of the North, were arrayed against it. Their ignorance made
them dupes and tools, and enemies of human rights and progress were prompt to use them. On
the evening of this momentous 3d of July, a manifesto, in the form of a handbill, was extensively
circulated throughout the city. Jeff Davis himself could not have written anything more disloyal,
more false, of the Union government and its aims, or better calculated to incite bloody revolution
in the North.

For the last few days the spirit of rebellion had been burning like a fuse toward a vast magazine
of human passion and intense hatred of Northern measures and principles. If from Pennsylvania
had come in electric flash the words, "Meade defeated," the explosion would have come almost
instantly; but all now had learned that the army of the Potomac had emerged from its obscurity,
and had grappled with the invading forces. Even the most reckless of the so-called peace faction
could afford to wait a few hours longer. As soon as the shattered columns of Meade's army were
in full retreat, the Northern wing of the rebellion could act with confidence. 

The reviewing officer paced victoriously by the fourteen fighting trenches lined with swords
and spears; above them, perched upon fourteen walls glowered the guns. The path he took was lined
with his fallen comrades, and with the heaped bodies of the enemy dead. It was when he came
to his quarters that the enemy attempted one last time to ovwerwhelm
him.

The wild beasts of Scindiah's menagerie were loosed upon him. By the strength of his arms alone
he slew four of the wildests beast. Seeing this, the rest of the creatures, amazed by his British
Valor, fled back to their dens in howling despair. The former spoke of "the mailed hand of military usurpation
in the North, striking down the liberties of the people and trampling its foot on a desecrated
Constitution." This HIT requires JavaScript! Please activate JavaScript before continuing, or release
the HIT.
It was shot from cannon at such non combustible targets such as wooden ships or powder magazines.
At the time of siege of Gibraltar in 1782 a part of Spain’s fleet was destroyed by the English
with hot shot and during the first half of nineteenth century the United States seacoast forts
shot furnaces; During 1840’s,the small shot furnace at Castillo
de san Macros National Monument was constructed.

At Fort Jefferson National Monument a giant furnace of 1862 was still remained. There are
few other examples left.

Loading hot shot was not particularly hazardous. Later the powder charge was in the gun with
dry wad which was in front of it ,a wet straw or clay was kept into the barrel. A premature
explosion of charge was prevented by a wet wad when the cherry red shot was rammed home .The shot
can cool the gun without setting off the charge according to ordnance manual! About 1850, hot shot
was followed by Martin’s shell ,filled with molten iron.
In 1681 the smoke shell was appeared but it was never used extensively. At the time of civil war, a
Confederate officer invented a form of gas projectile ,called a “stink shell”. It was not
valuable enough to offset its promotion value to the enemy because of its “inhumanity”,
it was not famous. Thus modern chemical shells were started.
In first quarter of 1400’s,it is of interest to review the Hussite
siege of Castle Karlstein,near Prague in connection with chemical
warfare.

The Hussites place 46 small cannon,5 large and 5 catapults. Once or twice in a day the big
guns were shooted and small ones from six to dozen rounds.
The cannonballs from Prague churches are furnished by marble pillars. Many projectiles for the catapults,
were decomposing carcasses and other disgusting garbage was thrown with great force over the
castle walls to cause disease and break the morale of the crowd around.

With lime and arsenic the intrepid defenders neutralized these “chemical bursts”. The Hussites
gave up after firing 10,930 cannon balls ,932 stone fragments,13
fire balls and 1,822 tons of disgusting garbage.

FIXED AMMUNITION:
In early days wads were very important for confining the powder and increasing its efficiency, partly
to the roughly made balls.

Straw or hay ones were most common material used to make wads and it can also be made by any
suitable material at hand..

The hay was first twisted into a 1-inch rope ,rope length was folded
several times and rolled finally into a short cylinder,a little larger
than bore.

After when the handier sabots came into existence ,then wads were needed only to keep the ball
from rolling out ,for hot shot firing or when the muzzle was down, or for hot shot firing..
For easier and fast loading Gunners early began to merge ammunition.

For instance after Placing the powder charge in a bag, the next logical step was to attach a
wad and cannon ball to it, thus the loading was done simply in one
operation that is pushing the single round into the bore(fig. 48).Toward
that end sabot or shoe was replaced by wad.

The sabot was a wooden disk similar to a shot having same diameter.

To make “semi-fixed ammunition “it was secure to the ball with
a pair of metal straps; the result was one cartridge ,if the neck
of the powder bag were tied around the sabot.

By the end of eighteenth century fixed ammunition was used by the lighter field pieces,and
the bigger  Guns used “semi-fixed”.
Cartridges were protected by cylinders and caps of strong paper which was used in transportation.
To eliminate the danger of huge ,solid sabot falling amongst amiable troops, sabots were sometimes
made of paper or compressed wood chips.A giant mortar sabot was harmful projectile in itself!

ROCKETS  Today's rocket projectiles are not exactly new inventions. About the time of artillery's
beginning, the military fireworker came into the business of providing pyrotechnic engines of
war; later, his job included the spectacular fireworks that were set off in celebration of victory
or peace.  Artillery manuals of very early date include chapters on the manufacture and use
of fireworks.   Nowadays rocket projectiles are old inventions ,as the military fire worker
came into business at the time of artillery’s beginning for providing pyrotechnic engines of war;
In the celebration of victory or peace the job included the outstanding fireworks that were set
off. Artillery manuals recently include chapters on the manufacture and use of fireworks.


It would seem that Providence itself assumed the guidance of this longsuffering Union army,
that had been so often led by incompetence in the field and paralyzed by interference at Washington.
Even the philosophical historian, the Comte de Paris, admits this truth in remarkable language. 

The many-sidedness of earlier theology was resolved in the abstract and impersonal unity of a
whole and, therefore, the glory of nature happens to mark, as nothing or no, and lost its charm.
At the same time, the heroic adventures of old were displaced by the legends of the saints, and
the heroic spirit of the epic of antiquity by an asceticism that repressed humans, and before even
the gods whose power was stunned. With Brahmanism religion lost its original character and natural,
and is characterized by a slavish submission to a priesthood, which
repealed the truly human.  c. Speculative systems.

The doctrine of the Brahmins caused the emergence of various theological and philosophical systems.
To these belong, first, the Vedanta "," (end of the Veda) or exposure dogmatic apologetics
of the Vedas. This contains (1) establishing the authority of the Vedas as scripture revealed
by Brahma, and also the relationship that is the tradition, (2) proof
that everything in reference to the Vedas is Brahma ( 3) the ascetic,
or discipline.

To explain the contradictory statements of the older parts and later of the Vedas, the Brahmins learning
makes use of the subtleties of a method of interpretation harmonistical. Secondly, the "Mimansa" (investigation),
devoted to solving the problem, how can the spring material world Brahma, or the intangible?
Under this system, there is only one Supreme Being, Paramatma, a name that Brahma had already
distinguished himself in the book of Manu of the law. Outside this be higher, there is nothing
real.

The world of the senses, or nature, (Maya, the feminine side of Brahma), is mere appearance
and illusion of the senses. The human spirit is a part of Brahman, but perverted, deceived by the
same illusion to the presumption that it is individual. This illusion is eliminated by a deeper
vision, by which the dualism disappears from view of the wise man,
and the pride that leads to true knowledge that Brahma alone is real,
that nature, by contrast, is nothing and the human spirit is nothing
but Brahman.

Third, the "Sanky" (critical) emanating from Kapila, in which, in opposition to the Mimansa ","
the individual and the real existence of nature, as opposed to the spirit, is set to point starting,
and the outcome is the original doctrine of two forces, the spirit and nature, whose mutual action
and reaction from each other the union of soul and body is explained. Is this unnatural union,
then the effort of the wise man must escape, through the perception
that the soul is not bound to the body, the domain of matter.

In this system, there is no room for an infinite being, because if a material world exists,
then God must be limited by their existence, and therefore cease to be infinite, which is God.
Sankyo here philosophy conflicted with the orthodox doctrine of the Brahmins, and paved the
way for Buddhism.
d. Buddhism.

Brahmanism against Buddhism arose as a reaction. Siddhartha, the son of Suddhodana, the king
of Kapilavastu, the Sakya family, (about 450 BC) moved by the misery
of their compatriots, decided to investigate the causes of it, and
if possible, find means of remedying it.

Started in the wisdom of the Brahmins, but not satisfied with that, after years of solitary meditation
retreat and quiet, penetrated with the principles of Sankyo, crossed the land as a pilgrim (Sakya
Muni, Sramana Gautama) and opened to the people of India a new religious
era.

The trend of the new doctrine was to break the caste system and free the people from the yoke
irritating the hierarchy of the Brahmins and dogmas.
 All spoke of the battle of Gettysburg as one of
the most terrific combats of the world. Three years later, Ex-President Pinto died in Valparaiso.
He left a memory both respected and admired by all political parties in his country. Pinto's
intelligent direction of resources during the war with Peru led to
the success of the Chilean army, both at land and sea, and earned
him a permanent, prominent place in the annals of Chilean history.

President Santa Maria.

Senor Domingo Santa Maria, a Liberal, was the next Chilean president.

He had formerly held varoius important positions with the government. Although he was exiled
from the country for participation in revolutionary conspiracy plots during the rule of President
Montt, he had returned to official government employment under President Perez. President Santa
Maria's primary task upon becoming president was to negotiate a peace treaty with Peru, which
would allow a withdrawal of Chilean military forces from that country. This task was impossible
for around two years, due to the lack of any Peruvian national administration with which the Chilean
authorities could negotiate. With the defeat of General Caceres and his forces by the forces under
command of Admiral Lynch, a government was organized. The leader of this new government was
General Iglesias; he and a Chilean representative signed a provisional peace treaty, which was
finally ratified in April 1884 by both the Chilean and Peruvian congresses.

Under the terms of this treaty, Chile gained the province of Tarapaca permanently and the provinces
of Tacna and Arica for ten years, after which the citizens of those
provinces would vote to determine whether they reverted back to Peruvian
rule or remained a part of Chile.

Should they vote to return to Peru, that country would have pay Chile 10,000,000 dollars.
Once the treaty was ratified, the Chilean forces were immediately withdrawn from all points in
Peru. The government of Bolivia attempted to negotiate a similar peace treaty with Chile in
1884. Though they sent representatives to President Santiago, they were unable to reach terms
satisfactory to both sides. Ultimately, the two countries agreed only to an armistice, and
Chilean troops remained in Bolivia until a definite agreement could be reached at some point in
the future.

Being a liberal, President Santa Maria's administration was violently opposed by the Conservatives
and some Liberals. The Conservatives disliked the fact that President Santa Maria had introduced
the law of civil marriage, which meant the Roman Catholic Church no longer had a say in the
validity of a marriage. Additionally, he introduced the civil registration of births and deaths,
a process formerly handled by parish priests. Thirdly, he freed the cemetaries, also formerly
controlled by the Roman Catholic Church. Where under the church's control cemetaries were
open only to Roman Catholics, they would now be open to all, regardless of religion.

These changes meant new employment opportunities, as civil employees had to be appointed to attend
to work in these fields. In addition, all restrictions on religion were removed as a clause
in the constitutional law passed under the role of President Perez
in 1865, which permitted the exercise of all creeds of religions,
was now fully enforced.

President Santa Maria was violently opposed by Conservatives and some liberals because of the
liberal policy he used in connection with Church matters, which resulted
in his using his influence in the elections of senators and deputies
to congress to create a substantial majority in his favor. On several
occasions, Chile was on the verge of an armed rebellion because of
the strain his intervention placed on the political situation and
the great irritation among the the Conservatives and Liberal dissidents.
 "Everybody thinks that," Woggles acknowledges. Again she asked that it is all over,
aren't we sort of encompassing and doing cost calculations? All of this agony and misery hasn't
made the world much better? And she added to look at Russia and our strikes. Doesn't Bolshevism
worry you?"

I told her that I’ve developed a way of life which nothing can seriously
disturb ever.

It's very ebullient to live like that. She replayed that it may be and added that may we have
this philosophy, please? Perhaps you'll make a supporter.
"It's really simple, only I think people lose sight of it so weirdly and realise the extraordinary
pleasure everyday life can give you and if you only allow them.

You compree that?"  Woggles replied that it is not true to life, "Everyday things! As for instance?"
"One of those really fine morning with white clouds in a deep blue
sky; the feel of a good drive at golf; smoke from cottage chimneys
at dusk; wondering what's round the next corner of an unknown road;
bare branches at night with the stars tangled in them; the wind that
blows across these downs of ours; the music of a sentence of STEVENSON'S;
Bogie here and his funny little ways, I needn't go on?"

Woggles replayed that no, you needn't, and looked at me rather hard
for a space.

"We're old friends and all that sort of thing?" she demanded.  " I hope we are. But why?" “
I'm going to ask you something.

You'll promise not to set Bogie at me or asphyxiate me with your Sam Browne?" She replied that
she will. "Have you been asking Betty Willoughby to marry you, and
she said 'Yes'?"

Woggles also among the soothsayers? Because a few evenings earlier, with the help of a splendid
full moon and one or two mitigating situations, but this is black magic and wizardry," I said.
"It's a dead secret

.


Marian, eager to comply with the suggestion, excused herself. In her absence her father entered. “One
of us could be defeated, or both of us could die; but even if we have not laid hands on weapons
for a long time, it does not mean we have lost our courage."

"I am afraid I do not follow."  "You do not understand? Then maybe you should be made aware that,
although we have been conquered by the Romans some fourteen centuries ago, during the rule of
Diurbanus, and although we are now seen as among the barbarous, some
of us can still trace their ancestry back to times of glory, we have
kept some of the traditions and have knowledge of important places
for the Dacians .

It grieves me that the Dacians have fallen so low. And while this state of affairs cannot be
blamed on any other nation, no one should blame me for wishing to
see this nation in a better state.” "But are you sure this is the
right moment?"

"We can never be certain, but we have to try and try again. Look at your people! Unlike us,
who have nothing to lose, for you much more is at stake, yet you
are more than willing to go to war.

After all, what would you do in our situation? If your people were plagued by illiteracy, barred
from any other kind of labor but the lowliest, living only in villages, as there is no city
despite the size of the territory on which we live on? In this situation, why should we be
prudent?

You, as a nation, made a grave mistake to behave in such an unjust way with the people you rule and
this is why you should expect unrest.” "Our cause is that of freedom
in general."

"You are making a mistake. You are prepared to fight simply to overthrow rulers, in the process
destroying the state. We could not care less who our rulers are, as long as they are correct
and compassionate.”  The conversation was interrupted by great noise outside, caused by a band
of Wallachians approaching the house of the Decurio (a kind of mayor). The men were displaying
proudly, on top of a pole, a Hungarian soldier’s hat. "That could have been your head on
the pole, instead of the hat, if I had let you outside last night.”  Stopping in front of the
mayor’s window, the men began shouting greetings at those inside. The Decurio spoke to the
men in their language, to which they replied with increased volume, all the while agitating and
pointing with the hat on the pole towards the house.

Embarrassed the Decurio asked the young man whether the hat was his and he replied that indeed,
it was. "They were looking for you and because of their lack of success they now want to attack
your father’s house."

Jumping up from the bed, the young men asked whether the mayor would permit it. The Decurio replied
that he could do nothing to intervene because it would mean losing
the confidence of the Wallachians.

Upon hearing this, the young man encouraged the Decurio to surrender
him to the mob, to which the more experienced man answered that such
a step would be unwise, since it would not save the young man’s
father and also, it would give him away.

"But then, whose fault will it be if they murder innocent people?"
asked the young man.

"It will be my fault. But, I think there may be a solution."  "Tell me!"  Thus, the Decurio
advised the young mean to rush to the city of Kolozsvar in disguise,
whence he should gather men and return to protect his father’s house.

Once joined by his friends, the young man would at least have the
chance to prevent the slaughtering of innocents by engaging in fair
combat with the Wallachian troupe.

The young man thanked the Decurio and was further advised that, upon
interrogation, he should mention the Decurio’s name and present
the house seal.

 

Two types of sacrifices occur: splendid and simple. Splendid sacrifices are often preformed
by kings and are conducted with all the trappings of priests and
sanctified ritual.

Simple sacrifices are more primitive in nature; examples are Saul's sacrifice (1Samuel xiv.35)
and Elisha's sacrifice (1Kings xxix.21). The sole criterion for determining whether the sacrifice
is valid is whether or not it is dedicated to the God of Israel.

The only illegitimate sacrifice dedicated to the God of Israel is that of the heretical cultus
outside of Jerusalem in the exilian redaction in the Book of Kings; all other sacrifices are
shown to be valid.

For instance, Naaman (2Kings v. 17) makes an acceptable sacrifice even though he presumably
followed Syrian ritualistic customs.

Though it is rare that the ritual itself is described, when sacrifices
are described they are violent - which is in compliance with relevant
laws.

The sacrifice Gideon makes in Judges vi. 19-21 is the most striking
example of this, and it is clear from the description that his sacrifice
resembles the procedure used in Ophrah during the narrarator's lifetime.

In Judges, Gideon boils a bull goat to create cooked meat and broth, bakes cakes of unleavened
bread in ashes, and places the meal into a basket which he burns on an altar. While it is possible
that there may have also been sacrifices utilizing Pentateuch rules, this is irrelevant. The most important
feature is the lack of distinction between legitimate and heretical sacrifice.
 

The metallic scales he generally used were of flimsy, cold-hammered copper, as indicated by existent
examples.[16] The forging caused the effect of making the alloy harder
than today's rolled copper sheets.

These enabled numerous prints to be taken from the plate than is achievable for a present-day
printmaker. Today, we incline to believe drypoint a very short medium, because the burr expires
so promptly under the pressure of the printing press. Rembrandt beyond any doubt had less forbiddances
about drypoint, for he could expect his harder copper to hold up
longest, possibly for as many as fifty superior prints from the same
plate.

Forged copper, contrary to the advanced rolled variety, is also entirely free grain in the
metallic element. This enables a drypoint needle to move freely in any direction without coming
across the impedance of a grain. Here again, Rembrandt had more inducement to use drypoint than
a advanced artist.
Rembrandt's etching anchor has comprised the subject of appreciable discussion. A book promulgated
in 1660, nine years prior to the artist's demise, contains a formula for "The Ground of Rinebrant
of Rine."[17] This ground, similar to that accounted by Bosse as a "delicate" ground,[18] consists
of two portions wax, one portion mastic, and one portion asphaltum. There are innumerable
formulae for such bases, but virtually all are replacements of the same three components, with
only slim deviations in the proportionalities.[19] The ground given as Rembrandt's is a good
schematic one.
A baffling problem, nevertheless, is brought in by the last line of this 1660 description: "...
lay your black ground really lean, and the white background upon it. This is the only way
of Rinebrant...."[20] No elaborateness is applied.

This unitary line acquaints a number of troubles, not all of which are resolvable. To take it at nominal
value is to admit the contemporaneous evidence that Rembrandt not only applied a white ground
but applied it exclusively. This statement can't be taken uncritically.
It will promptly be ascertained that a achromatic ground may be of appreciable aid to an artist.
His needle perforates the white to the copper, bringing about the familiar effect of a crimson ink line
on white paper. An average ground, without treatment, is almost transparent, making the etcher's
lines kind of hard to see.[21] The commonest process, both in the
17th century and now, is to smoke the ground and incorporate the carbon
black with the ground by warming the plate slightly.

This brings about a black ground, against which the lines come out
light, the negative of the supreme print.

The black ground is preferred, both out of long-established custom and because it's really easy
to apply. Moreover, artists today explicate that they as well love the feeling of doing work
somewhat blind, that one of their greatest payoffs is the sense of surprisal in peeling the
1st cogent evidence print off the plate. For whatsoever reasonableness, the black ground has
been preferred by the great absolute majority of artists, both past and present.
The description of Rembrandt's ground in 1660 takes cognition of the white ground for granted.
Its formula for certain comes along to accept been broadly speaking familiar amongst artists in
the middle of the 17th century. Rubens, in a letter as early as 1622, mentions having accepted
a formula for a white ground, tho' he could not recollect it.[22] The first technological account
of the cognitive process came out in Bosse's initiate treatise in 1645.[23] There is no reason
why Rembrandt shouldn't have acknowledged of the white-ground method and all reason to reckon that
he did.
There is one piece of impregnable evidence that he did use a white
ground about 1631.

One of Rembrandt's drawings exists which, contrary to most of his sketches is an accurate paradigm
(in reverse) of a specific engraving, Diana at the bathing tub.[24] The back of this drawing is
covered up with blackened chalk, and its lines indicate the indenture of deciphering.
 The writings of Miss Aguilar, sale, in two years, was 100,000 volumes.
Murray's Encyclopedia of Geography, "more than 50,000 volumes were sold, and McCulloch" Dictionary
of Commerce, "10,000 volumes. Poems of Alexander Smith, the sale in a few months, has reached
10,000. The sale of works by Mr. Thackeray was four times that of England, and the work of
Mr. Dickens has about a million volumes. In "Bleak House" in all its various forms - newspapers,
magazines and volumes - which has already reached hundreds of thousands of copies. In the latest
novel by Bulwer, it was completed, the sale, as I say, has exceeded 35,000. Thiers French Revolution
and the Consulate, "has sold 32,000, and the publication of Lord Montagu of the works of Bacon
4,000 copies.

If the books were great in England, because I'm here, English writers were paid in full. In
response to say their books are cheaper here, because we do not pay any copyright. Paying agents,
however, a very small amount would have been necessary if all the people of England could afford
to, as they should be able to do, buy books. Contribution to give a shilling, as has been demonstrated,
the sum of nearly eight million dollars, enough to pay the salaries of hundreds of fifteen
almost identical to those of our state.
Centralization, however, destroys the book market, and sales are so small, and some writers owe
their success to luck is a large collection of contributions from
a small number of readers, while the bulk of the staff of life, as
poor Tom Hood, day after day, and certainly can not hope for an improvement
of their condition.

Sixty
Since then, Britain is a rich, abundant in libraries and universities,
and give the world some of the best and highest paid writers of the
time.

At that time, the people of this country had more than four million dollars, and they were poor, while
no books or libraries. They have since increased to twenty-six million million of them were migrants
usually come here with nothing but the clothes on their backs. These poor people have to create
for themselves - the farms, roads, houses, libraries, schools and colleges, and yet, poor as they
were, now offer an application for the main products of the mind
English is greater than that found at home.

If we can make a market, why not? Had the market, the authors do not pay all of its merits?
No doubt it;and if deemed necessary to follow a system that tends to depreciate the services
of workers in the field, workshop and office, there is no reason to call the people of this country
to fill gaps that contribute to their pleasure or instruction in writing books, we would not
ask for help to support hundreds of thousands of workers, their wives and children, that the same
system unpitied sentence in the hospital.
But you ask, is it true that we must read the works of Macaulay, Dickens, and others, without
compensation to the authors?

In response, we can say that we are giving them exactly what their countrymen have given
their Dalton, Davy, Wollaston, Franklin, Parry, and thousands of others who have been provided
to agencies whose books are - and more than actually give men among us engaged in Crop Science
- reputation. That said, the return of light, but Byron was more
than enough when he first saw the American edition of his works, coming
as it seemed to him, "posterity".

Miss Bremer could not find a small premium to know of his work in high regard in which he
stated, and it is a small fee, where even in the western desert, he met several people who
wanted to ride for free because it was a delight to offer them.
Miss Carlen told his readers that "a triumph" was proud. "It was, he says," When I got my
hands for the first time, one of my books have been translated and published in the United
States. My eyes filled with tears. The dreams of the brightest young again I passed.
You Americans had planted the seed, and also approved the fruit! "It
is the feeling of a writer who cultivated literature with an object
in another view that benefit alone. These are essentially comprised
with different links and such links are formed by a pair of parallel plates. These plates are especially
connected by a central bolt forming a scissors joint and again they are perfectly connected by chain
links. These links are present under the cage and it is highly tied above by the winding rope.
The outer side’s links are specially designed with projecting lugs
above.

When they are closed by the load, its width will normally permit it to enter a funnel shaped
guide which is situated on a cross bar of the frame. They are fixed from some distance above
the bank level. When they are reaching the narrower portion of the guide at the top, then the
plates will automatically be forced apart and it will release the ropes and bring the lugs into
contact with the top of the cross bar. This will finally secure the cage from falling carefully.

There are mainly three different principal patters existing in normal use such as king, ormerod
and walker. They are in fact very capable and efficient to create the speed of the cage at arrival
is not excessive. We could completely well stride from our gondola
to the flat-boat and then go up and ask graciously if we may be allowable to inspect the attractive
granule- ship. While you are interviewing the first official about the overseas country he
has seen, I will ask the commandants if he will nicely tie his boat a small further than downward on the
isle. No, that won't do, for he may not talk English; we should have
a discomfited scene, and I should beat my own purpose.

You are so smooth in Italian, presume you call upon him with my card and allow me stay in the
gondola."

"What shall I say to the man?" objected Miss Palette.  "Oh, there's plenty to say," returned
Sale mina. "Tell him that Penelope and I came over from the lodge on the Grand duct only that
we strength have ideal quiet. Tell him that if I had not unpacked my largest trunk, I should
not stay an instantaneous longer. Tell him that his great, bulky ship ruins the view; that it hides
the most beautiful church and part of the Doge's Palace. Tell him that I strength as well have
stay at home and built a small house on the port in Boston Harbor. Tell him that his steam-whistles,
his anchor-droppings, and his unvarying loadings or unloading give us headache. Tell him that
seven or eight of his sailormen bring fresh clothes and scrubbing brushes and took their bath
at our front entrance.

Tell him that one of them, almost absolutely nude, in its place of
in succession away to put on more clothe, offered me his appendage
to aid me keen on the gondola."

Miss Pallet demur at the theme of some of these comments, and avowed that she could not decode
others into correct Italian. She therefore future that Sale mina should write a few dignified
protests on her visiting-card, and her own part would be to educate the man in the flat-boat
to bring it at once to his better officer.

The commandant spoke no English,--of that fact the sailorman in the flat-boat was sure,--but
as the gondola motivated away, the ladies could see the great man thoughtful over the little
piece of pasteboard, and it was plain that he was impressed. Herein lays perhaps a seed of truth.
The really great thing triumph over all obstacles, and reach the general mind and heart in some
way, deliver its communication we discern not how.  Sale mina’s card teemed with motivating
in sequence, at least to the initiate. Her last name was in itself a identification into the best
humanity. To be an X- was sufficient of itself, but her Christian name was one unusual to the
most aristocratic and imperative branch of the X-s. Her mother's maiden name, embossed at satisfied
extent in the middle, traditional the fact that Mr. X- had not wedded beneath him, but that she
was the child of blameless lineage on both sides.

Her position of home was the only one possible to the carrier of three such names, and as if
these advantages were not enough, the street and number proved that Sale mina’s family unquestionably
obsessed wealth; for the small statistics, and specially the odd information, on that exacting
street, could be flaunt only by populace of destiny .  You have now all the facts in your tenure,
and I can only add that the ship weigh fasten at twilight, so Sale mina again gaze upon the
Doge's Palace and slept composedly.
V  CASA ROSA May 22  I am like the schoolgirl who writes home from Venice: "I am sitting
on the edge of the Grand Canal drinking it all in, and life never seems half so full before."
Was ever the city as beautiful as last nighttime on the advent of overseas royalty? It was
a unforgettable show and single in its strange beauty. The palaces to line the canal were brilliant
with streamer; windows and water-steps were thronged, the wide centre of the stream was left blank.
currently, round the turn lower the Rialto, swept into view a twice line of gondolas--long,
low, gleaming with every hue of brilliant color, most of them with
ten, some with twelve, gondoliers in resplendent liveries, red, blue,
green, white, orange, all meandering over their oars with the exactness
of tackle and the grace of absolute mastery of their craft.

In the middle, between two lines, came one small and beautifully modeled gondola, rowed by
four men in red and black, while on the white silk cushion in the stern sat the Prince and Princess.
 The note that followed the next day came
from a well-bred princess. Her intention was to invite the Official to Afternoon Tea.
Diary Weekly notification to the Service of The Departmental Committee on the Approach of handling
Drunkards Monday- I am beggining to be overwhelmed by my desire for my customary Diet. My
morning meal was left lacking by the presence of a cork in my most important staple. The price
was a preposterous 96s a dozen, from a great year of 1884! However this exchange couldn't be resisted
and I was able to survive until lunch. But then came yet another thorn in my side. My order
was small due to my lack of appetite. But I was hoping for tonic-
not a straight drink.

I was able to swallow a roll, The devilling of which gave me an excitement for the next morning's
champagne. But the appearance of the news bottles showed they were much better specimens than
this mornings foul draught. I was too excited to sleep.
Tuesday- When I fall asleep in my clothes a drink is almost always
my best remedy.

I was accompanied to my morning meal by a friend who shared some champagne with me. We both decided
it was quick delicious. I believe it was Brown or possibly Jones, wait wait it was Robinson.
Well whatever his name be he is quite a decent man. He has a great sense of humor and is quite easy
to talk to. We laugh far to much. I feel as though we share a fraternal connection. We got into
quite an argument over the proper pronunciation of the word Constitution. He was on the side
of it being two syllables where as I held the belief that it should
be one.

I still hold to my convictions though. After dinner we continued our talk sharing a bit of port.
The fact that I managed to make it back was astonishing. Wednesday- I was again fully dressed
this morning as I rolled out of bed. I am overcome by an astounding feeling of ennui. I seemed
to have been crying all morning, had it not been for the booze I am sure it would have lasted all
day. It seems I must continue my compulsion.