And the master of the galley laughed, and, reaching out, he took the pearl, and when he saw
it he pressed it to his forehead and bowed.  'It shall be,' he said, 'for the sceptre of the
young King,' and he made a sign to the negroes to draw up the anchor.

And when the young King heard this he gave a great cry, and woke, and through the window he
saw the long grey fingers of the dawn clutching at the fading stars.

And he fell asleep again, and dreamed, and this was his dream.

He thought that he was wandering through a dim wood, hung with strange fruits and with beautiful
poisonous flowers.  The adders hissed at him as he went by, and the bright parrots flew screaming
from branch to branch.  Huge tortoises lay asleep upon the hot mud. The trees were full of
apes and peacocks.

On and on he went, till he reached the outskirts of the wood, and there he saw an immense multitude
of men toiling in the bed of a dried-up river.  They swarmed up the crag like ants.  They dug
deep pits in the ground and went down into them.  Some of them cleft the rocks with great axes;
others grabbled in the sand.

They tore up the cactus by its roots, and trampled on the scarlet blossoms.  They hurried about,
calling to each other, and no man was idle.

From the darkness of a cavern Death and Avarice watched them, and Death said, 'I am weary;
give me a third of them and let me go.' But Avarice shook her head.  'They are my servants,'
she answered.

And Death said to her, 'What hast thou in thy hand?'

'I have three grains of corn,' she answered; 'what is that to thee?'

'Give me one of them,' cried Death, 'to plant in my garden; only one of them, and I will go away.'

'I will not give thee anything,' said Avarice, and she hid her hand in the fold of her raiment.

And Death laughed, and took a cup, and dipped it into a pool of water, and out of the cup rose
Ague.  She passed through the great multitude, and a third of them lay dead.  A cold mist followed
her, and the water-snakes ran by her side.

And when Avarice saw that a third of the multitude was dead she beat her breast and wept. 
She beat her barren bosom, and cried aloud.  'Thou hast slain a third of my servants,' she
cried, 'get thee gone.  There is war in the mountains of Tartary, and the kings of each side
are calling to thee.  The Afghans have slain the black ox, and are marching to battle.  They
have beaten upon their shields with their spears, and have put on their helmets of iron. What
is my valley to thee, that thou shouldst tarry in it?  Get thee gone, and come here no more.'

'Nay,' answered Death, 'but till thou hast given me a grain of corn I will not go.'

But Avarice shut her hand, and clenched her teeth.  'I will not give thee anything,' she muttered.

And Death laughed, and took up a black stone, and threw it into the forest, and out of a thicket
of wild hemlock came Fever in a robe of flame.  She passed through the multitude, and touched
them, and each man that she touched died.  The grass withered beneath her feet as she walked.

And Avarice shuddered, and put ashes on her head.  'Thou art cruel,' she cried; 'thou art cruel.
There is famine in the walled cities of India, and the cisterns of Samarcand have run dry.
There is famine in the walled cities of Egypt, and the locusts have come up from the desert.
The Nile has not overflowed its banks, and the priests have cursed Isis and Osiris.

And Death laughed again, and he whistled through his fingers, and a woman came flying through
the air.  Plague was written upon her forehead, and a crowd of lean vultures wheeled round
her.  She covered the valley with her wings, and no man was left alive.

And Avarice fled shrieking through the forest, and Death leaped upon his red horse and galloped
away, and his galloping was faster than the wind.

And out of the slime at the bottom of the valley crept dragons and horrible things with scales,
and the jackals came trotting along the sand, sniffing up the air with their nostrils.

And the young King wept, and said:  'Who were these men, and for what were they seeking?'

'For rubies for a king's crown,' answered one who stood behind him.

And the young King started, and, turning round, he saw a man habited as a pilgrim and holding
in his hand a mirror of silver.

And he grew pale, and said:  'For what king?'

And the pilgrim answered:  'Look in this mirror, and thou shalt see him.'

And he looked in the mirror, and, seeing his own face, he gave a great cry and woke, and the
bright sunlight was streaming into the room, and from the trees of the garden and pleasaunce
the birds were singing.

And the Chamberlain and the high officers of State came in and made obeisance to him, and the
pages brought him the robe of tissued gold, and set the crown and the sceptre before him.

And the young King looked at them, and they were beautiful.  More beautiful were they than
aught that he had ever seen.  But he remembered his dreams, and he said to his lords:  'Take
these things away, for I will not wear them.'

And the courtiers were amazed, and some of them laughed, for they thought that he was jesting.

But he spake sternly to them again, and said:  'Take these things away, and hide them from
me.  Though it be the day of my coronation, I will not wear them.  For on the loom of Sorrow,
and by the white hands of Pain, has this my robe been woven.  There is Blood in the heart of
the ruby, and Death in the heart of the pearl.'  And he told them his three dreams.

And when the courtiers heard them they looked at each other and whispered, saying:  'Surely
he is mad; for what is a dream but a dream, and a vision but a vision?  They are not real things
that one should heed them.  And what have we to do with the lives of those who toil for us?
Shall a man not eat bread till he has seen the sower, nor drink wine till he has talked with
the vinedresser?'

And the Chamberlain spake to the young King, and said, 'My lord, I pray thee set aside these
black thoughts of thine, and put on this fair robe, and set this crown upon thy head.  For
how shall the people know that thou art a king, if thou hast not a king's raiment?'

And the young King looked at him.  'Is it so, indeed?' he questioned.  'Will they not know
me for a king if I have not a king's raiment?'

'They will not know thee, my lord,' cried the Chamberlain.

'I had thought that there had been men who were kinglike,' he answered, 'but it may be as thou
sayest.  And yet I will not wear this robe, nor will I be crowned with this crown, but even
as I came to the palace so will I go forth from it.'

And he bade them all leave him, save one page whom he kept as his companion, a lad a year younger
than himself.  Him he kept for his service, and when he had bathed himself in clear water,
he opened a great painted chest, and from it he took the leathern tunic and rough sheepskin
cloak that he had worn when he had watched on the hillside the shaggy goats of the goatherd.
These he put on, and in his hand he took his rude shepherd's staff.

And the little page opened his big blue eyes in wonder, and said smiling to him, 'My lord,
I see thy robe and thy sceptre, but where is thy crown?'

And the young King plucked a spray of wild briar that was climbing over the balcony, and bent
it, and made a circlet of it, and set it on his own head.

'This shall he my crown,' he answered.

And thus attired he passed out of his chamber into the Great Hall, where the nobles were waiting
for him.

And the nobles made merry, and some of them cried out to him, 'My lord, the people wait for
their king, and thou showest them a beggar,' and others were wroth and said, 'He brings shame
upon our state, and is unworthy to be our master.'  But he answered them not a word, but passed
on, and went down the bright porphyry staircase, and out through the gates of bronze, and mounted
upon his horse, and rode towards the cathedral, the little page running beside him.

And the people laughed and said, 'It is the King's fool who is riding by,' and they mocked him.

And he drew rein and said, 'Nay, but I am the King.'  And he told them his three dreams.

And a man came out of the crowd and spake bitterly to him, and said, 'Sir, knowest thou not
that out of the luxury of the rich cometh the life of the poor?  By your pomp we are nurtured,
and your vices give us bread.  To toil for a hard master is bitter, but to have no master to
toil for is more bitter still.  Thinkest thou that the ravens will feed us?  And what cure
hast thou for these things?  Wilt thou say to the buyer, "Thou shalt buy for so much," and
to the seller, "Thou shalt sell at this price"?  I trow not. Therefore go back to thy Palace
and put on thy purple and fine linen.  What hast thou to do with us, and what we suffer?'

'Are not the rich and the poor brothers?' asked the young King.

'Ay,' answered the man, 'and the name of the rich brother is Cain.'

And the young King's eyes filled with tears, and he rode on through the murmurs of the people,
and the little page grew afraid and left him.

And when he reached the great portal of the cathedral, the soldiers thrust their halberts out
and said, 'What dost thou seek here? None enters by this door but the King.'

And his face flushed with anger, and he said to them, 'I am the King,' and waved their halberts
aside and passed in.

And when the old Bishop saw him coming in his goatherd's dress, he rose up in wonder from his
throne, and went to meet him, and said to him, 'My son, is this a king's apparel?  And with
what crown shall I crown thee, and what sceptre shall I place in thy hand? Surely this should
be to thee a day of joy, and not a day of abasement.'

'Shall Joy wear what Grief has fashioned?' said the young King. And he told him his three dreams.

THE BIRTHDAY OF THE INFANTA

[TO MRS. WILLIAM H. GRENFELL OF TAPLOW COURT--LADY DESBOROUGH]

It was the birthday of the Infanta.  She was just twelve years of age, and the sun was shining
brightly in the gardens of the palace.

Although she was a real Princess and the Infanta of Spain, she had only one birthday every
year, just like the children of quite poor people, so it was naturally a matter of great importance
to the whole country that she should have a really fine day for the occasion.  And a really
fine day it certainly was.  The tall striped tulips stood straight up upon their stalks, like
long rows of soldiers, and looked defiantly across the grass at the roses, and said:  'We are
quite as splendid as you are now.'  The purple butterflies fluttered about with gold dust on
their wings, visiting each flower in turn; the little lizards crept out of the crevices of
the wall, and lay basking in the white glare; and the pomegranates split and cracked with the
heat, and showed their bleeding red hearts.  Even the pale yellow lemons, that hung in such
profusion from the mouldering trellis and along the dim arcades, seemed to have caught a richer
colour from the wonderful sunlight, and the magnolia trees opened their great globe-like blossoms
of folded ivory, and filled the air with a sweet heavy perfume.

The little Princess herself walked up and down the terrace with her companions, and played
at hide and seek round the stone vases and the old moss-grown statues.  On ordinary days she
was only allowed to play with children of her own rank, so she had always to play alone, but
her birthday was an exception, and the King had given orders that she was to invite any of
her young friends whom she liked to come and amuse themselves with her.  There was a stately
grace about these slim Spanish children as they glided about, the boys with their large-plumed
hats and short fluttering cloaks, the girls holding up the trains of their long brocaded gowns,
and shielding the sun from their eyes with huge fans of black and silver.  But the Infanta
was the most graceful of all, and the most tastefully attired, after the somewhat cumbrous
fashion of the day. Her robe was of grey satin, the skirt and the wide puffed sleeves heavily
embroidered with silver, and the stiff corset studded with rows of fine pearls.  Two tiny slippers
with big pink rosettes peeped out beneath her dress as she walked.  Pink and pearl was her
great gauze fan, and in her hair, which like an aureole of faded gold stood out stiffly round
her pale little face, she had a beautiful white rose.

His whole married life, with its fierce, fiery-coloured joys and the terrible agony of its
sudden ending, seemed to come back to him to-day as he watched the Infanta playing on the terrace.
She had all the Queen's pretty petulance of manner, the same wilful way of tossing her head,
the same proud curved beautiful mouth, the same wonderful smile--vrai sourire de France indeed--as
she glanced up now and then at the window, or stretched out her little hand for the stately
Spanish gentlemen to kiss.  But the shrill laughter of the children grated on his ears, and
the bright pitiless sunlight mocked his sorrow, and a dull odour of strange spices, spices
such as embalmers use, seemed to taint--or was it fancy?--the clear morning air.  He buried
his face in his hands, and when the Infanta looked up again the curtains had been drawn, and
the King had retired.

She made a little moue of disappointment, and shrugged her shoulders.  Surely he might have
stayed with her on her birthday. What did the stupid State-affairs matter?  Or had he gone
to that gloomy chapel, where the candles were always burning, and where she was never allowed
to enter?  How silly of him, when the sun was shining so brightly, and everybody was so happy!
Besides, he would miss the sham bull-fight for which the trumpet was already sounding, to say
nothing of the puppet-show and the other wonderful things.  Her uncle and the Grand Inquisitor
were much more sensible.  They had come out on the terrace, and paid her nice compliments.
So she tossed her pretty head, and taking Don Pedro by the hand, she walked slowly down the
steps towards a long pavilion of purple silk that had been erected at the end of the garden,
the other children following in strict order of precedence, those who had the longest names
going first.

