HUMAN NATURE IN POLITICS

BY

GRAHAM WALLAS

PREFACE

I offer my thanks to several friends who have been kind enough to read the proofs of this book,
and to send me corrections and suggestions; among whom I will mention Professors John Adams
and J.H. Muirhead, Dr. A. Wolf, and Messrs. W.H. Winch, Sidney Webb, L. Pearsall Smith, and
A.E. Zimmern. It is, for their sake, rather more necessary than usual for me to add that some
statements still remain in the text which one or more of them would have desired to see omitted
or differently expressed.

I have attempted in the footnotes to indicate those writers whose books I have used. But I
should like to record here my special obligation to Professor William James's Principles of
Psychology, which gave me, a good many years ago, the conscious desire to think psychologically
about my work as politician and teacher.

I have been sometimes asked to recommend a list of books on the psychology of politics. I believe
that at the present stage of the science, a politician will gain more from reading, in the
light of his own experience, those treatises on psychology which have been written without
special reference to politics, than by beginning with the literature of applied political psychology.
But readers who are not politicians will find particular points dealt with in the works of
the late Monsieur G. Tarde, especially L'Opinion et la Foule and Les Lois de l'Imitation and
in the books quoted in the course of an interesting article on 'Herd Instinct,' by Mr. W. Trotter
in the Sociological Review for July 1908. The political psychology of the poorer inhabitants
of a great city is considered from an individual and fascinating point of view by Miss Jane
Addams (of Chicago) in her Democracy and Social Ethics.

GRAHAM WALLAS.

PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION

I have made hardly any changes in the book as it first appeared, beyond the correction of a
few verbal slips. The important political developments which have occurred during the last
eighteen months in the English Parliament, in Turkey, Persia, and India, and in Germany, have
not altered my conclusions as to the psychological problems raised by modern forms of government;
and it would involve an impossible and undesirable amount of rewriting to substitute 'up-to-date'
illustrations for those which I drew from the current events of 1907 and 1908. I should desire
to add to the books recommended above Mr. W. M'Dougall's Social Psychology, with special reference
to his analysis of Instinct.

G.W.

LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS AND POLITICAL SCIENCE, CLARE MARKET, LONDON, W.C.,

30th December 1909.

PREFACE TO THE THIRD EDITION (1920)

This edition is, like the second edition (1910), a reprint, with a few verbal corrections,
of the first edition (1908). I tried in 1908 to make two main points clear. My first point
was the danger, for all human activities, but especially for the working of democracy, of the
'intellectualist' assumption, 'that every human action is the result of an intellectual process,
by which a man first thinks of some end which he desires, and then calculates the means by
which that end can be attained' (p. 21). My second point was the need of substituting for that
assumption a conscious and systematic effort of thought. 'The whole progress,' I argued, 'of
human civilisation beyond its earliest stages, has been made possible by the invention of methods
of thought which enable us to interpret and forecast the working of nature more successfully
than we could, if we merely followed the line of least resistance in the use of our minds'
(p. 114).

In 1920 insistence on my first point is not so necessary as it was in 1908. The assumption
that men are automatically guided by 'enlightened self-interest' has been discredited by the
facts of the war and the peace, the success of an anti-parliamentary and anti-intellectualist
revolution in Russia, the British election of 1918, the French election of 1919, the confusion
of politics in America, the breakdown of political machinery in Central Europe, and the general
unhappiness which has resulted from four years of the most intense and heroic effort that the
human race has ever made. One only needs to compare the disillusioned realism of our present
war and post-war pictures and poems with the nineteenth-century war pictures at Versailles
and Berlin, and the war poems of Campbell, and Berenger, and Tennyson, to realise how far we
now are from exaggerating human rationality.

It is my second point, which, in the world as the war has left it, is most important. There
is no longer much danger that we shall assume that man always and automatically thinks of ends
and calculates means. The danger is that we may be too tired or too hopeless to undertake the
conscious effort by which alone we can think of ends and calculate means.

The great mechanical inventions of the nineteenth century have given us an opportunity of choosing
for ourselves our way of living such as men have never had before. Up to our own time the vast
majority of mankind have had enough to do to keep themselves alive, and to satisfy the blind
instinct which impels them to hand on life to another generation. An effective choice has only
been given to a tiny class of hereditary property owners, or a few organisers of other men's
labour. Even when, as in ancient Egypt or Mesopotamia, nature offered whole populations three
hundred free days in the year if they would devote two months to ploughing and harvest, all
but a fraction still spent themselves in unwilling toil, building tombs or palaces, or equipping
armies, for a native monarch or a foreign conqueror. The monarch could choose his life, but
his choice was poor enough. 'There is,' says Aristotle, 'a way of living so brutish that it
is only worth notice because many of those who can live any life they like make no better choice
than did Sardanapalus.'

The Greek thinkers started modern civilisation, because they insisted that the trading populations
of their walled cities should force themselves to think out an answer to the question, what
kind of life is good. 'The origin of the city-state,' says Aristotle, 'is that it enables us
to live; its justification is that it enables us to live well.'

Before the war, there were in London and New York, and Berlin, thousands of rich men and women
as free to choose their way of life as was Sardanapalus, and as dissatisfied with their own
choice. Many of the sons and daughters of the owners of railways and coal mines and rubber
plantations were 'fed up' with motoring or bridge, or even with the hunting and fishing which
meant a frank resumption of palaeolithic life without the spur of palaeolithic hunger. But
my own work brought me into contact with an unprivileged class, whose degree of freedom was
the special product of modern industrial civilisation, and on whose use of their freedom the
future of civilisation may depend. A clever young mechanic, at the age when the Wanderjahre
of the medieval craftsman used to begin, would come home after tending a 'speeded up' machine
from 8 A.M., with an hour's interval, till 5 P.M. At 6 P.M. he had finished his tea in the
crowded living-room of his mother's house, and was 'free' to do what he liked. That evening,
perhaps, his whole being tingled with half-conscious desires for love, and adventure, and knowledge,
and achievement. On another day he might have gone to a billiard match at his club, or have
hung round the corner for a girl who smiled at him as he left the factory, or might have sat
on his bed and ground at a chapter of Marx or Hobson. But this evening he saw his life as a
whole. The way of living that had been implied in the religious lessons at school seemed strangely
irrelevant; but still he felt humble, and kind, and anxious for guidance. Should he aim at
marriage, and if so should he have children at once or at all? If he did not marry, could he
avoid self-contempt and disease? Should he face the life of a socialist organiser, with its
strain and uncertainty, and the continual possibility of disillusionment? Should he fill up
every evening with technical classes, and postpone his ideals until he had become rich? And
if he became rich what should he do with his money? Meanwhile, there was the urgent impulse
to walk and think; but where should he walk to, and with whom?

The young schoolmistress, in her bed-sitting-room a few streets off, was in no better case.
She and a friend sat late last night, agreeing that the life they were living was no real life
at all; but what was the alternative? Had the 'home duties' to which her High Church sister
devoted herself with devastating self-sacrifice any more meaning? Ought she, with her eyes
open, and without much hope of spontaneous love, to enter into the childless 'modern' marriage
which alone seemed possible for her? Ought she to spend herself in a reckless campaign for
the suffrage? Meanwhile, she had had her tea, her eyes were too tired to read, and what on
earth should she do till bedtime?

Such moments of clear self-questioning were of course rare, but the nerve-fretting problems
always existed. Industrial civilisation had given the growing and working generation a certain
amount of leisure, and education enough to conceive of a choice in the use of that leisure;
but had offered them no guidance in making their choice.

We are faced, as I write, with the hideous danger that fighting may blaze up again throughout
the whole Eurasian continent, and that the young men and girls of Europe may have no more choice
in the way they spend their time than they had from 1914 to 1918 or the serfs of Pharaoh had
in ancient Egypt. But if that immediate danger is avoided, I dream that in Europe and in America
a conscious and systematic discussion by the young thinkers of our time of the conditions of
a good life for an unprivileged population may be one of the results of the new vision of human
nature and human possibilities which modern science and modern industry have forced upon us.

Within each nation, industrial organisation may cease to be a confused and wasteful struggle
of interests, if it is consciously related to a chosen way of life for which it offers to every
worker the material means. International relations may cease to consist of a constant plotting
of evil by each nation for its neighbours, if ever the youth of all nations know that French,
and British, and Germans, and Russians, and Chinese, and Americans, are taking a conscious
part in the great adventure of discovering ways of living open to all, and which all can believe
to be good.

GRAHAM WALLAS.

August 1920.

CONTENTS

  INTRODUCTION

  PART I
  THE CONDITIONS OF THE PROBLEM

  CHAPTER I
  IMPULSE AND INSTINCT IN POLITICS

  CHAPTER II
  POLITICAL ENTITIES

  CHAPTER III
  NON-RATIONAL INFERENCE IN POLITICS

  CHAPTER IV
  THE MATERIAL OF POLITICAL REASONING

  CHAPTER V
  THE METHOD OF POLITICAL REASONING

  PART II
  POSSIBILITIES OF PROGRESS

  CHAPTER I
  POLITICAL MORALITY

  CHAPTER II
  REPRESENTATIVE GOVERNMENT

  CHAPTER III
  OFFICIAL THOUGHT

  CHAPTER IV
  NATIONALITY AND HUMANITY

SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS

(Introduction, page 1)

The study of politics is now in an unsatisfactory position. Throughout Europe and America,
representative democracy is generally accepted as the best form of government; but those who
have had most experience of its actual working are often disappointed and apprehensive. Democracy
has not been extended to non-European races, and during the last few years many democratic
movements have failed.

This dissatisfaction has led to much study of political institutions; but little attention
has been recently given in works on politics to the facts of human nature. Political science
in the past was mainly based, on conceptions of human nature, but the discredit of the dogmatic
political writers of the early nineteenth century has made modern students of politics over-anxious
to avoid anything which recalls their methods. That advance therefore of psychology which has
transformed pedagogy and criminology has left politics largely unchanged.

The neglect of the study of human nature is likely, however, to prove only a temporary phase
of political thought, and there are already signs that it, is coming to an end.

(PART I.--Chapter I.--Impulse and Instinct in Politics, page 21)

Any examination of human nature in politics must begin with an attempt to overcome that 'intellectualism'
which results both from the traditions of political science and from the mental habits of ordinary
men.

Political impulses are not mere intellectual inferences from calculations of means and ends;
but tendencies prior to, though modified by, the thought and experience of individual human
beings. This may be seen if we watch the action in politics of such impulses as personal affection,
fear, ridicule, the desire of property, etc.

All our impulses and instincts are greatly increased in their immediate effectiveness if they
are 'pure,' and in their more permanent results if they are 'first hand' and are connected
with the earlier stages of our evolution. In modern politics the emotional stimulus which reaches
us through the newspapers is generally 'pure,' but 'second hand,' and therefore is both facile
and transient.

The frequent repetition of an emotion or impulse is often distressing. Politicians, like advertisers,
must allow for this fact, which again is connected with that combination of the need of privacy
with intolerance of solitude to which we have to adjust our social arrangements.

Political emotions are sometimes pathologically intensified when experienced simultaneously
by large numbers of human beings in physical association, but the conditions of political life
in England do not often produce this phenomenon.

The future of international politics largely depends on the question whether we have a specific
instinct of hatred for human beings of a different racial type from ourselves. The point is
not yet settled, but many facts which are often explained as the result of such an instinct
seem to be due to other and more general instincts modified by association.

(Chapter II.--Political Entities, page: 59)

Political acts and impulses are the result of the contact between human nature and its environment.
During the period studied by the politician, human nature has changed very little, but political
environment has changed with ever-increasing rapidity.

Those facts of our environment which stimulate impulse and action reach us through our senses,
and are selected from the mass of our sensations and memories by our instinctive or acquired
knowledge of their significance. In politics the things recognised are, for the most part,
made by man himself, and our knowledge of their significance is not instinctive but acquired.

