Another summer, another winter, lost out of a life made up of a limited number of summers and
winters; a few more winters and summers, thinks Christopher, and I shall be in a world where
Ideas are not needed, and where there is nothing left to discover!  Something had to be done.
In the beginning of 1491 there was only one thing spoken of at Court--the preparations for
the siege of Granada, which did not interest Columbus at all. I want revenge with all that equipment that you, the less sense and
more contrived that we call generosity and chivalry.

"To inflame your anger I'll tell the world that despite your beloved will be my wife, but this is
too small for an Arab if you see the color of the blood of his opponent.

In the afternoon I hope to be free and at night you see me on the opposite bank of the bridge between
the trees of the forest .-- Muley.

"

Even still D. Lope had second reading of the bill angered when he came back the soldier said:

- Day's of posts and emails, my mutt, who has run the country, and this time brings this ticket,
if not Mary, must be a painter, famous for neither Lucas nor Iciar, nor any other of the pendulum
will no more and no well-established point, no more delicate profiles.

Confused and bewildered D. NEMA Lope broke, and saw that it said in the paper:

"What I refused last night, I beseech you today Mary. Not only do I want away from you, but this
my dear land of Spain, leading me to these shores from Africa. Muley with yours tonight I start
my uncle's arms, who can not or will not oppose such violence for
the sake of Muley and earnestness with which you want to retain rights
of our family.

Two Tunisian galleasses expected this faction and prowl in Lighters from the beach.

"Although you help me to divert me such great risks, it is only to let me in a monastery, the most
by hand, until back in Granada and I cast them from him for yours, or let me be there for
God.

"At the beginning of the night I aguardaréis near the bridge, and all ready to approach part we
do not lose value .-- Mary. "

Lope anger lost, and the two terrible pitfalls of honor and love, stirring in his soul a thousand
ways to attend to the challenge of Muley and protect the fears as well grounds of his wife.
Solved at last called his squire and presents the state of things.

Cigarral,
peat or not to come rolling down from a tower, he said:

- Everything
is nothing and no matter none. Even better out of this village to
take six or four arquebusiers good, Christian people it is no more
warlike than just the Apothecary thing is who runs the war, and these
are the spatulas, but your two servants appear people tip, she will
add that boy, Market, most of a page size is now and then an ensign,
not to walk between clappers and catkins, and with these three and
we While we can challenge two to twenty.

CHAPTER X

OUR LADY OF LA RABIDA

It is a long road from Santa Fe to Huelva, a long journey to make on foot, and the company
of a sad heart and a little talking boy, prone to sudden weariness and the asking of innumerable
difficult questions, would not make it very much shorter.  Every step that Christopher took
carried him farther away from the glittering scene where his hopes had once been so bright,
and were now fallen to the dust; and every step brought him nearer that unknown destiny as
to which he was in great darkness of mind, and certain only that there was some small next
thing constantly to be done: the putting down of one foot after another, the request for food
and lodging at the end of each short day's march, the setting out again in the morning.  That
walk from Santa Fe, so real and painful and wearisome and long a thing to Christopher and Diego,
is utterly blank and obliterated for us.  What he thought and felt and suffered are things
quite dead; what he did-namely, to go and do the immediate thing that it seemed possible and
right for him to do--is a living fact to-day, for it brought him, as all brave and honest doing
will, a little nearer to his destiny, a little nearer to the truthful realisation of what was
in him.

At about a day's journey from Huelva, where the general slope of the land begins to fall towards
the sea, two small rivers, the Odiel and the Tinto, which have hitherto been making music each
for itself through the pleasant valleys and vineyards of Andalusia, join forces, and run with
a deeper stream towards the sea at Palos.  The town of Palos lay on the banks of the river;
a little to the south of it, and on the brow of a rocky promontory dark with pine trees, there
stood the convent of Our Lady of La Rabida.  Stood, on this November evening in the year 1491;
had stood in some form or other, and used for varying purposes, for many years and centuries
before that, even to the time of the Romans; and still stands, a silent and neglected place,
yet to be visited and seen by such as are curious.  To the door of this place comes Christopher
as darkness falls, urged thereto by the plight of Diego, who is tired and hungry.  Christopher
rings the bell, and asks the porter for a little bread and water for the child, and a lodging
for them both.  There is some talk at the door; the Franciscan lay brother being given, at
all times in the history of his order, to the pleasant indulgence of gossiping conversation,
when that is lawful; and the presence of a stranger, who speaks with a foreign accent, being
at all times a incident of interest and even of excitement in the quiet life of a monastery.
The moment is one big with import to the human race; it marks a period in the history of our
man; the scene is worth calling up.  Dark night, with sea breezes moaning in the pine trees,
outside; raying light from within falling on the lay brother leaning in the doorway and on
the two figures standing without: on Christopher, grave, subdued, weary, yet now as always
of pleasant and impressive address, and on the small boy who stands beside him round-eyed and
expectant, his fatigue for the moment forgotten in curiosity and anticipation.

While they are talking comes no less a person than the Prior of the monastery, Friar Juan Perez,
bustling round, good-natured busybody that he is, to see what is all this talk at the door.
The Prior, as is the habit of monks, begins by asking questions.  What is the stranger's name?
Where does he come from?  Where is he going to?  What is his business? Is the little boy his
son?  He has actually come from Santa Fe?  The Prior, loving talk after the manner of his kind,
sees in this grave and smooth-spoken stranger rich possibilities of talk; possibilities that
cannot possibly be exhausted to-night, it being now hard on the hour of Compline; the stranger
must come in and rest for tonight at least, and possibly for several nights.  There is much
bustle and preparation; the travellers are welcomed with monkish hospitality; Christopher,
we may be sure, goes and hears the convent singing Compline, and offers up devout prayers for
a quiet night and for safe conduct through this vale of tears; and goes thankfully to bed with
the plainsong echoing in his ears, and some stoic sense that all days, however hard, have an
evening, and all journeys an end.

Next morning the talk begins in earnest, and Christopher, never a very reserved man, finds
in the friendly curiosity of the monks abundant encouragement to talk; and before very long
he is in full swing with his oft-told story.  The Prior is delighted with it; he has not heard
anything so interesting for a long time.  Moreover, he has not always been in a convent; he
was not so long ago confessor to Queen Isabella herself, and has much to communicate and ask
concerning that lady. 

The soldier, lost all comfort and forget their condition giving the wandering and adventure, no
thought or more fleets, and by more Indian or more companies. Bartering the guise of a beggar and
the dress kind of soldier by a sackcloth of a hermit, he made his room that same site, witnessed
the catastrophe, and always thinking of his unfortunate benefactor and his unhappy Sir, every day
pulled the veil, the only piece that was left of Mary and kissing respectfully, and thronging
the tears to the eyes, turned to lock him in his most tender breast.

Mercado, tired of his life in the village, and it altered the relationship Arriscado I had heard the
former soldier, he decided to leave Spain and fortune. Warned with languages ​​that he gave
his friend Francisco Carvajal and other soldiers of account, embarked in Seville with other
adventurous young men, and went to the lands of South America, where
he won big name under the title of Master Market.

Perhaps in the wilderness, the glow of the flames, and surrounded
by men who Spain did not think leaving it in Spain, entertained the
night telling them the disagreements of the Moors and Christians and
the sad end of Don Lope and Mary.

TREASURES OF THE ALHAMBRA

Darro's career is that, starting from Plaza Nueva, going to the Rambla del Chapiz Monte Sacro
rise of Granada.

On the sinister side of magnificent buildings stand, cut by the jaws of the streets that descend from
the top of the Albaicin, and right hand, on the riverbed deep hearty winter, never exhausted
in the summer and always sounding and clear, comes the curly Darro
the rings that offer picturesque bridges that crown.

Of these, the main is Santa Ana, in which area, and the masonry of the bridge itself, there
are seats or stalls always full of curious, warm nights in June and July, there's soaked perfumed
and voluptuous atmosphere behind them carries the current.
It was vacation, and my friend and colleague Don Carlos, closed and
our gatherings, we we cited in this site some time to get together,
then rotate and roam other times the beam of the moon, retire to our
inn, to review the studies that we are so busily and then we were
worth so little. It is not likely that Columbus, after so many
rebuffs, was very hopeful; but in the meantime, here he was amid the pious surroundings in
which the religious part of him delighted, and in a haven of rest after all his turmoils and
trials.  He could look out to sea over the flecked waters of that Atlantic whose secrets he
longed to discover; or he could look down into the busy little port of Palos, and watch the
ships sailing in and out across the bar of Saltes.  He could let his soul, much battered and
torn of late by trials and disappointments, rest for a time on the rock of religion; he could
snuff the incense in the chapel to his heart's content, and mingle his rough top-gallant voice
with the harsh croak of the monks in the daily cycle of prayer and praise.  He could walk with
Diego through the sandy roads beneath the pine trees, or through the fields and vineyards below;
and above all he could talk to the company that good Perez invited to meet him--among them
merchants and sailors from Palos, of whom the chief was Martin Alonso Pinzon, a wealthy landowner
and navigator, whose family lived then at Palos, owning the vineyards round about, and whose
descendants live there to this day. Pinzon was a listener after Columbus's own heart; he not
only believed in his project, but offered to assist it with money, and even to accompany the
expedition himself.  Altogether a happy and peaceful time, in which hopes revived, and the
inner light that, although it had now and then flickered, had never gone out, burned up again
in a bright and steady flame.

At the end of a fortnight, and much sooner than had been expected, the worthy pilot returned
with a letter from the Queen.  Eager hands seized it and opened it; delight beamed from the
eyes of the good Prior.  The Queen was most cordial to him, thanked him for his intervention,
was ready to listen to him and even to be convinced by him; and in the meantime commanded his
immediate appearance at the Court, asking that Columbus would be so good as to wait at La Rabida
until he should hear further from her. Life seemed to accrue to the palate; charged senses
new intensity, the blood burned in his trampling on circulation and the smell was excited feeling
unknown longing, as if sniff a new electricity in the atmosphere.
  Nothing will serve the good old busybody, although
it is now near midnight, but that he must depart at once.  He will not wait for daylight; he
will not, the good honest soul! wait at all.  He must be off at once; he must have this, he
must have that; he will take this, he will leave that behind; or no, he will take that, and
leave this behind. He must have a mule, for his old feet will not bear him fast enough; ex-confessors
of Her Majesty, moreover, do not travel on foot; and after more fussing and running hither
and thither a mule is borrowed from one Juan Rodriguez Cabezudo of Moguer; and with a God-speed
from the group standing round the lighted doorway, the old monk sets forth into the night. Some, height and
flood were brought from the interior of Africa, and they were dressed in their Capellaro, Marlotes
and turbans, would err on your veneers revejidas, bright eyes sunken and other accidents,
some of the old officers of the court.  We would give
a king's ransom to know events that must have taken place in any one of twenty years in the
life of Columbus, but there is no sign of them on the surface of the stream, nor will any fishing
bring them to light.  Yet here, bobbing up like a cork, comes the name of Juan Rodriguez Cabezudo
of Moguer, doubtless a good worthy soul, but, since he has been dead these four centuries and
more, of no interest or importance to any human being; yet of whose life one trivial act, surviving
the flood of time which has engulfed all else that he thought important, falls here to be recorded:
that he did, towards midnight of a day late in December 1491 lend a mule to Friar Juan Perez.

Of that heroic mule journey we have no record; but it brought results enough to compensate
the good Prior for all his aching bones and rheumatic joints. 

But they raised a wry face or shoulders, as prisoners who no matter what placidity of time out
of his confinement.

Rafael came on horseback, galloping up the slope of the vineyard, as if came from the farmhouse.

-
How early, lad - derisively said godfather .-- It is known that will
not let you sleep the Marchamalo things.

The overseer he hung near the door without seeing Maria de la Luz.

Late morning, Mr. Fermin, who was watching the road from the top of the vineyard, saw the end
of the white ribbon cut the plain a great cloud of dust, marking
in black spots within it several carriages.

- You are there, guys
- shouted to the tenants .-- The master arrives. See if you can receive
as what you are, as decent people. Diego Prieto, one of
the magistrates of Palos, was sent to Columbus at La Rabida, bearing 20,000 maravedis  with
which he was to buy a mule and decent clothing for himself, and repair immediately to the Court
at Santa Fe.  Old Perez was in high feather, and busy with his pen.  He wrote to Doctor Garcia
Hernandez, and also to Columbus, in whose letter the following pleasant passage occurs:

