The present ceremonials are in direct obedience to the orders and instructions given at the
time of the appearance of the Kōk-kō upon the earth, and their masks are counterparts of the
original or spiritual Kōk-kō (Plate XX). The Käk-lō rides, as of old, upon the backs of the
Kō-yē-mē-shi, and he is the heralder for the coming of the Kō-lō-oo-wĭt-si. Arriving at the
village in the morning, he divides his time between the kivas, there being six of these religious
houses in Zuñi, one for each of the cardinal points, one for the zenith, and one for the nadir.
In each of these kivas he issues to the people assembled the commands of the Kōk-kō and gives
the history of the Käk-lō and the gathering of the cereals of the earth by the Sä-lä-mō-bī-ya.
At sunrise he is gone. The morning after the arrival of the Käk-lō, those who are to represent
the Kōk-kō prepare plume sticks, and in the middle of the same day these are planted in the
earth. The same night they repair to their respective kivas, where they spend the following
eight nights, not looking upon the face of a woman during that period. Each night is spent
in smoking and talking and rehearsing for the coming ceremony. The second day all go for wood,
bringing it home on their backs, for so the ancients did when beasts of burden were unknown
to them. The third day is also spent in gathering wood, and the fourth day likewise. On the
same day the ten men who are to personate the Kō-yē-mē-shi, in company with the [t]Sī-[t]sī-[t]ki
(great-grandfather of the Kō-yē-mē-shi), pass through the village, inquiring for the boys who
are to be initiated; before such houses as have boys ready for this ceremonial these men assemble;
one of them enters the house and, greeting the mother of the boy with "Good morning," inquires
the name of her son. She replies: "He has no name," and requests the Kō-yē-mē-shi to give him
one. The man then joins the group, repeating the words of the woman. In passing from the kiva
through the village the Indian screens his face with a blanket, so as not to see the women
as he passes. On the fifth day they go on a rabbit hunt, the capture of but one rabbit being
necessary. The rabbit is carried to the He-i-i-que (or Kiva of the North) by the [t]Sī-[t]Sī
[t]ki, who, after skinning the rabbit, fills the skin with cedar bark; a pinch of meal is placed
for the heart and the eye sockets are filled with mica; a hollow reed is passed through the
inside filling to the mouth. The sixth day the inmates of the kivas again go for wood; the
seventh day large Tē-līk-tkī-nā-we are made of eagle plumes; the eighth day is consumed in
decorating the masks to be worn. As these people have not the art of mixing their pigments
so as to be permanent, masks and altars have to be freshly decorated before using; and, when
the masks are completely decorated, they, with the other paraphernalia, are carried on the
same day by the men and youths who have to wear them to some secluded nooks among the rocks,
a distance from the town, where they put them on, returning to the village by early moonlight.

The impressive ceremonial of initiating the youth into the order of the Kōk-kō occurs but once
in four years. No male child above the age of four years may, after death, enter the Kiva of
the Kōk-kō unless he has received the sacred breath of the Kōk-kō. Those who personate the
Kōk-kō are endowed for the time being with their actual breath. Besides the Sä-lä-mō-bī-ya
of the North, West, South, East, Heavens, and Earth, and a number of younger brothers who appear
on this occasion, there are Pā-oo-tī-wa (Plate XX), father of the Sun, ten Kō-yē-mē-shi, and
the Kō-lō-oo-wĭt-si.

The Sä-lä-mō-bī-ya of the North wear yellow (hlūp-si-na) masks; those from the West, blue (hli-än-na);
those from the South, red (shi-lō-ā); those from the East, white (kō-hān); those from the Heavens,
all colors (ī-tō-pō-nän-ni); those from the Earth, black (quin-nā). (Plate XXI.) These colors
represent the cardinal points, the zenith, and the nadir:

  North.       Yellow.       Hlūp-si-na.

They come after sundown to the village. The serpent, made of hide, is about twelve feet long
and eighteen inches through the thickest part of the body. The abdomen is painted white, the
back black, covered with white stars, which are represented by a kind of semicircle, an entirely
conventional design. The neck rests through a finely decorated kind of altar carried by the
two Soot-īke. The tail end of the fetich is held by the priest of the Kō-lō-oo-wĭt-si, who
constantly blows through a large shell, which he carries in the right hand, holding the serpent
with the left. The Kōk-kō pass through the town and visit each kiva; they put the head of the
serpent through the hatchway, that those who are privileged to assemble in the kivas may see
the fetich. The Kō-lō-oo-wĭt-si is then taken to the Kiva of the Earth, Hē-tkā-pa-que. The
walls of this kiva are decorated with two Kō-lō-oo-wĭt-si, which extend almost around the entire
walls of the room, the heads nearly meeting at the north end of the room. The fetich is placed
between the heads. The others of the Kōk-kō repair to their respective kivas, the Hē-i-i-que
or Kiva of the North, the Moo-hē-i-que or Kiva of the West, the Choo-pā-ä-que or Kiva of the
South, the ōh-hē-i-que or Kiva of the East, and the Oop-tsān-ā-ā-que or Kiva of the Heavens.
From each of these kivas men and youths from the secret orders to which I have referred are
assembled to receive the Kōk-kō. When all the Kōk-kō have gone to their kivas, the ten Kō-yē-mē-shi,
who reach the village after the others, go to their house, which is not one of the sacred assembly
houses, but chosen from among the Sūs-ki-i-que, or people of the Wolf gens.

The Kōk-kō sing and dance in their own kivas, then change about, those of the North passing
to the West and those of the West going to the South, and so on. This is continuous until the
first white streak warns them that day is approaching. At this time the head of the Kō-lō-oo-wĭt-si
is put through the opening in the side wall of the kiva, when all who choose may look upon
it. Behind this creature the old priest stands and blows through the body, making the same
peculiar noise, representing the roaring of a sea monster, that he has kept up throughout the
night. The image is only seen by the uncertain light of the faintest impression of day. Pā-oo-tī-wa
remains with the Kō-lō-oo-wĭt-si in the Kiva of the Earth. At sunrise the Sä-lä-mō-bī-ya go
to this kiva, each bearing the plume stick made on the sixth day and an ear of corn. The Sä-lä-mō-bī-ya
of the North first advances to the priest of the Kō-lō-oo-wĭt-si and, presenting him with the
plumes and ear of yellow corn, prays that the Kō-lō-oo-wĭt-si will give to his people the seeds
of the earth; the Sä-lä-mō-bī-ya of the West next approaches, presenting his wand and an ear
of blue corn, praying that the Kō-lō-oo-wĭt-si will bring to his people the seeds of the earth;
and so the red corn of the South, the white of the East, the all-color of the Heavens and the
black of the Earth are presented with the same prayer. The Sä-lä-mō-bī-ya remove their masks
after entering the kiva, when they immediately lose their identity as the Kōk-kō. They are
merely men now, praying to the Kōk-kō. This ceremony over, they return to their respective
kivas, having put on their masks before leaving the Kiva of the Earth.

At this time the [t]Sī-[t]sī-[t]ki partially ascends the ladder of the Kiva of the North, remaining
just inside of the hatchway, and, holding the rabbit to his mouth, calls through the reed:
"Your little grandfather is hungry; he wishes something to eat; bring him some stewed meat."
The Kō-yē-mē-shi, in obedience to the request of the little grandfather, go to the homes of
the children to be initiated, calling for food. At the same time the Kō-yē-mē-shi give to each
novitiate his name. Previous to this the boy is designated as baby boy, younger boy, older
boy, &c. The food is received by the Kō-yē-mē-shi and taken to the Kiva of the North, where
it is divided and carried to the different kivas. For this occasion the native beans are prepared.
There is as great a variety of color in these as in the corn. The yellow beans are carried
to the Kiva of the North, the blue beans to the Kiva of the West, the red to the Kiva of the
South, the white to the Kiva of the East, the all color to the Kiva of the Heavens, the black
to the Kiva of the Earth. A sumptuous meal is now served in each of the kivas.

After this meal the Kōk-kō begin their bodily decorations, with their bodies almost nude. Those
of the North are painted yellow; those of the West, blue; those of the South, red; those of
the East, white; those of the Heavens, all colors on the body and yellow on the neck and upper
arms; those of the Earth, black, with some bits of color. This done, the Sä-lä-mō-bī-ya of
the North passes through the village and, going for a short distance to the north, deposits
a plume stick, the stick to which the plumes are attached being painted yellow. The Sä-lä-mō-bī-ya
of the West, South, and East plant their plumes at their respective cardinal points. Those
for the zenith and nadir are planted to the west, on the road to the spirit lake, the stick
of each one having the cardinal color decorations. This done, all retire to their kivas.

The Sä-lä-mō-bī-ya of the North, returning to his kiva, drinks the medicine water prepared
by the priest of the great fire order (Mā-[t]ke-hlān-ā ā-que), who, with some of his people,
is now busy in the preparation of a sand altar. The Sä-lä-mō-bī-ya again emerge from the kivas,
with long bunches of Spanish bayonet in their hands, in the ends of which grains of corn of
the respective colors are placed and wrapped with shreds of the bayonet. Any man or youth desiring
to raise yellow corn appeals to the Sä-lä-mō-bī-ya of the North, who strikes him a severe blow
with his bunch of bayonets. Similar appeals are made to those representing other colors. The
sand altar is made in the Kiva of the North. It is first laid in the ordinary yellowish sand,
in the center of which the bowl of medicine water is placed. Over the yellow sand a ground
of white sand is sprinkled. All the Sä-lä-mō-bī-ya and their brothers are represented on the
altar (Plate XXII). The altar is circular in form and some twelve feet in diameter. The Kō-lō-oo-wĭt-si
encircles the whole.

Throughout the day the Kōk-kō are running around the village whipping such of the people as
appeal to them for a rich harvest, while the curious performances of the Kō-yē-mē-shi carry
one back to the primitive drama.

