All greatness is good, and the height of sorrow tops deliverance. What casts down and overwhelms
and blasts the soul beyond all hope is mediocrity in sorrow and joy, selfish and niggardly
suffering that has not the strength to be rid of the lost pleasure, and in secret lends itself
to every sort of degradation to steal pleasure anew. Christophe was braced up by the bitter
savor that he found in the old Book: the wind of Sinai coming from vast and lonely spaces and
the mighty sea to sweep away the steamy vapors. The fever in Christophe subsided. He was calm
again, and lay down and slept peacefully until the morrow. When he opened his eyes again it
was day. More acutely than ever he was conscious of the horror of his room: he felt his loneliness
and wretchedness: but he faced them. He was no longer disheartened: he was left only with a
sturdy melancholy. He read over now the words of Job:

Even though God slay me yet would I trust in Him.

He got up. He was ready calmly to face the fight.

He made up his mind there and then to set to work. He knew only two people in Paris: two young
fellow-countrymen: his old friend Otto Diener, who was in the office of his uncle, a cloth
merchant in the Mail quarter: and a young Jew from Mainz, Sylvain Kohn, who had a post in a
great publishing house, the address of which Christophe did not know.

He had been very intimate with Diener when he was fourteen or fifteen. He had had for him one
of those childish friendships which precede love, and are themselves a sort of love. [Footnote:
See Jean-Christophe--I: "The Morning."] Diener had loved him too. The shy, reserved boy had
been attracted by Christophe's gusty independence: he had tried hard to imitate him, quite
ridiculously: that had both irritated and flattered Christophe. Then they had made plans for
the overturning of the world. In the end Diener had gone abroad for his education in business,
and they did not see each other again: but Christophe had news of him from time to time from
the people in the town with whom Diener remained on friendly terms.

As for Sylvain Kohn, his relation with Christophe had been of another kind altogether. They
had been at school together, where the young monkey had played many pranks on Christophe, who
thrashed him for it when he saw the trap into which he had fallen. Kohn did not put up a fight:
he let Christophe knock him down and rub his face in the dust, while he howled; but he would
begin again at once with a malice that never tired--until the day when he became really afraid,
Christophe having seriously threatened to kill him.

Christophe went out early. He stopped to breakfast at a cafe. In spite of his self-consciousness,
he forced himself to lose no opportunity of speaking French. Since he had to live in Paris,
perhaps for years, he had better adapt himself as quickly as possible to the conditions of
life there, and overcome his repugnance. So he forced himself, although he suffered horribly,
to take no notice of the sly looks of the waiter as he listened to his horrible lingo. He was
not discouraged, and went on obstinately constructing ponderous, formless sentences and repeating
them until he was understood.

He set out to look for Diener. As usual, when he had an idea in his head, he saw nothing of
what was going on about him. During that first walk his only impression of Paris was that of
an old and ill-kept town. Christophe was accustomed to the towns of the new German Empire,
that were both very old and very young, towns in which there is expressed a new birth of pride:
and he was unpleasantly surprised by the shabby streets, the muddy roads, the hustling people,
the confused traffic--vehicles of every sort and shape: venerable horse omnibuses, steam trams,
electric trams, all sorts of trams--booths on the pavements, merry-go-rounds of wooden horses
(or monsters and gargoyles) in the squares that were choked up with statues of gentlemen in
frock-coats: all sorts of relics of a town of the Middle Ages endowed with the privilege of
universal suffrage, but quite incapable of breaking free from its old vagabond existence. The
fog of the preceding day had turned to a light, soaking rain. In many of the shops the gas
was lit, although it was past ten o'clock.

Christophe lost his way in the labyrinth of streets round the Place des Victoires, but eventually
found the shop he was looking for in the Rue de la Banque. As he entered he thought he saw
Diener at the back of the long, dark shop, arranging packages of goods, together with some
of the assistants. But he was a little short-sighted, and could not trust his eyes, although
it was very rarely that they deceived him. There was a general movement among the people at
the back of the shop when Christophe gave his name to the clerk who approached him: and after
a confabulation a young man stepped forward from the group, and said in German:

"Herr Diener is out."

"Out? For long?"

"I think so. He has just gone."

Christophe thought for a moment; then he said:

"Very well. I will wait."

The clerk was taken aback, and hastened to add:

"But he won't be back before two or three."

"Oh! That's nothing," replied Christophe calmly. "I haven't anything to do in Paris. I can
wait all day if need be."

The young man looked at him in amazement, and thought he was joking. But Christophe had forgotten
him already. He sat down quietly in a corner, with his back turned towards the street: and
it looked as though he intended to stay there.

The clerk went back to the end of the shop and whispered to his colleagues: they were most
comically distressed, and cast about for some means of getting rid of the insistent Christophe.

After a few uneasy moments, the door of the office was opened and Herr Diener appeared. He
had a large red face, marked with a purple scar down his cheek and chin, a fair mustache, smooth
hair, parted on one side, a gold-rimmed eyeglass, gold studs in his shirt-front, and rings
on his fat fingers. He had his hat and an umbrella in his hands. He came up to Christophe in
a nonchalant manner. Christophe, who was dreaming as he sat, started with surprise. He seized
Diener's hands, and shouted with a noisy heartiness that made the assistants titter and Diener
blush. That majestic personage had his reasons for not wishing to resume his former relationship
with Christophe: and he had made up his mind from the first to keep him at a distance by a
haughty manner. But he had no sooner come face to face with Christophe than he felt like a
little boy again in his presence: he was furious and ashamed. He muttered hurriedly:

"In my office.... We shall be able to talk better there."

Christophe recognized Diener's habitual prudence.

But when they were in the office and the door was shut, Diener showed no eagerness to offer
him a chair. He remained standing, making clumsy explanations:

"Very glad.... I was just going out.... They thought I had gone.... But I must go ... I have
only a minute ... a pressing appointment...."

Christophe understood that the clerk had lied to him, and that the lie had been arranged by
Diener to get rid of him. His blood boiled: but he controlled himself, and said dryly:

"There is no hurry."

Diener drew himself up. He was shocked by such off-handedness.

"What!" he said. "No hurry! In business..." Christophe looked him in the face.

"No."

Diener looked away. He hated Christophe for having so put him to shame. He murmured irritably.
Christophe cut him short:

"Come," he said. "You know..."

(He used the "Du," which maddened Diener, who from the first had been vainly trying to set
up between Christophe and himself the barrier of the "Sie")

"You know why I am here?"

"Yes," said Diener. "I know."

(He had heard of Christophe's escapade, and the warrant out against him, from his friends.)

"Then," Christophe went on, "you know that I am not here for fun. I have had to fly. I have
nothing. I must live."

Diener was waiting for that, for the request. He took it with a mixture of satisfaction--(for
it made it possible for him to feel his superiority over Christophe)--and embarrassment--(for
he dared not make Christophe feel his superiority as much as he would have liked).

"Ah!" he said pompously. "It is very tiresome, very tiresome. Life here is hard. Everything
is so dear. We have enormous expenses. And all these assistants..."

Christophe cut him short contemptuously:

"I am not asking you for money."

Diener was abashed. Christophe went on:

"Is your business doing well? Have you many customers?"

"Yes. Yes. Not bad, thank God!..." said Diener cautiously. (He was on his guard.)

Christophe darted a look of fury at him, and went on:

"You know many people in the German colony?"

"Yes."

"Very well: speak for me. They must be musical. They have children. I will give them lessons."

Diener was embarrassed at that.

"What is it?" asked Christophe. "Do you think I'm not competent to do the work?"

He was asking a service as though it were he who was rendering it. Diener, who would not have
done a thing for Christophe except for the sake of putting him under an obligation, was resolved
not to stir a finger for him.

"It isn't that. You're a thousand times too good for it. Only..."

"What, then?"

"Well, you see, it's very difficult--very difficult--on account of your position."

"My position?"

"Yes.... You see, that affair, the warrant.... If that were to be known.... It is difficult
for me. It might do me harm."

He stopped as he saw Christophe's face go hot with anger: and he added quickly:

"Not on my own account.... I'm not afraid.... Ah! If I were alone!... But my uncle ... you
know, the business is his. I can do nothing without him...."

He grew more and more alarmed at Christophe's expression, and at the thought of the gathering
explosion he said hurriedly--(he was not a bad fellow at bottom: avarice and vanity were struggling
in him: he would have liked to help Christophe, at a price):

"Can I lend you fifty francs?"

Christophe went crimson. He went up to Diener, who stepped back hurriedly to the door and opened
it, and held himself in readiness to call for help, if necessary. But Christophe only thrust
his face near his and bawled:

"You swine!"

And he flung him aside and walked out through the little throng of assistants. At the door
he spat in disgust.

       *       *       *       *       *

He strode along down the street. He was blind with fury. The rain sobered him. Where was he
going? He did not know. He did not know a soul. He stopped to think outside a book-shop, and
he stared stupidly at the rows of books. He was struck by the name of a publisher on the cover
of one of them. He wondered why. Then he remembered that it was the name of the house in which
Sylvain Kohn was employed. He made a note of the address.... But what was the good? He would
not go.... Why should he not go?... If that scoundrel Diener, who had been his friend, had
given him such a welcome, what had he to expect from a rascal whom he had handled roughly,
who had good cause to hate him? Vain humiliations! His blood boiled at the thought. But his
native pessimism, derived perhaps from his Christian education, urged him on to probe to the
depths of human baseness.

"I have no right to stand on ceremony. I must try everything before I give in."

And an inward voice added:

"And I shall not give in."

He made sure of the address, and went to hunt up Kohn He made up his mind to hit him in the
eye at the first show of impertinence.

