As soon as I was dressed the next morning, I rang the bell furiously; and, on the appearance
of the waiter, exclaimed, "Beefsteak!" This time he comprehended me, and went laughingly away
to bring me a good breakfast. I often saw the same waiter afterwards at the hotel; and he never
saw me without laughing, and exclaiming, "Beefsteak!"

In the course of the forenoon, I was taken in a carriage to the house of Mrs. Severance; but
the family were not at home. I returned to the hotel, somewhat disheartened and disappointed.
Although I should have supposed that death was not far off if no disappointment had happened
to me when I least expected it, yet this persistent going wrong of every thing in Cleveland
was really rather dispiriting. But a bright star soon broke through the clouds, in the shape
of Mr. Severance, who came into the parlor directly after dinner, calling for me in so easy
and so cordial a manner, that I forgot every thing, and was perfectly happy. This feeling,
however, lasted only until I reached the house. I found four fine children, all full of childish
curiosity to hear me talk; who, as soon as they found that I could not make myself understood
by them, looked on me with that sort of contempt peculiar to children when they discover that
a person cannot do as much as they can themselves. Mr. Severance, too, was expecting to find
me accomplished in music, "like all Germans;" and had to learn that I had neither voice nor
ear for the art. Mrs. Severance understood a little German, yet not half enough to gain any
idea of how much or how little I was capable of doing; and therefore looked upon me with a
sort of uncertainty as to what was my real capacity. This position was more provoking than
painful; there was even something ludicrous in it: and, when not annoyed, I often went into
my room to indulge in a hearty laugh by myself.

I met with a most cordial reception in the college The dean (Dr. John J. Delamater) received
me like a father; and, on the first day, I felt perfectly at home. All was going on well. I
had a home at Mrs. Severance's; while, despite my mutilated English, I found many friends in
the college, when circumstances changed every thing. Some changes occurred in Mr. Severance's
business; and he was forced, in consequence, to give up house-keeping At that time, I did not
know that the Physiological Society was ready to lend me money; and was therefore in great
distress. I never experienced so bitter a day as that on which Mrs. Severance told me that
I could stay with her no longer. It was but five weeks after my arrival, and I was not able
to make myself understood in the English language, which was like chaos to me. On the same
day, I well remember, that, for the first time in my life, I made an unsuccessful attempt to
borrow money; and, because it was the first and the last time, it was the more painful to me
to be refused. I envied the dog that lived, and was happy without troubling his brain; I envied
the kitchen-maid that did her work mechanically, and enjoyed life far more than those fitted
by nature for something higher, while the world would go on just as well without them as with them.

Mrs. Severance secured a boarding-place for me for the rest of the winter; and paid my board,
amounting to thirty-three dollars, from the funds of the society. I lived quietly by myself;
studied six hours daily at home, with four dictionaries by me; attending six lectures a day,
and going in the evening for three hours to the dissecting-rooms. I never conversed with any
one in the boarding-house nor even asked for any thing at the table; but was supplied like
a mute. This silence was fruitful to me. About New Year, I ventured to make my English audible;
when, lo! every one understood me perfectly. From this time forward, I sought to make acquaintances,
to the especial delight of good old Dr. Delamater, who had firmly believed that I was committing
gradual suicide. Through Mrs. Severance, I became acquainted with Dr. Harriot K. Hunt, who
was then on a visit to Cleveland; and, through her, with the Rev. A.D. Mayo, who was pastor
of a small society there, known as that of the Liberal Christians.

I found many dear and valued friends during my residence in Cleveland, but none to whom I am
bound in lasting gratitude as to Mr. Mayo, who offered me his assistance when he learned that
I was in need; my extra expenses having swallowed up the little money that I had brought with
me, so that I had not even enough to return to my sisters in New York. As the minister of a
small congregation advocating Liberal ideas, he had a hard position in Cleveland, both socially
and pecuniarily; yet he offered to share his little with me. I was forced to accept it; and
I am now, and have always been, glad that I did so. No one, that has not had the experience,
can appreciate the happiness that comes with the feeling, that a rich man has not cast a fragment
of his superfluity towards you (and here let me remark, that it is next to impossible to find
wealth and generosity go together in friendship), but that the help comes from one who must
work for it as well as the recipient. It proves the existence of the mutual appreciation that
is known by the name of "friendship." The apple given by a friend is worth ten times more than
a whole orchard bestowed in such a way as to make you feel that the gift is but the superfluity
of the donor.

I remained for ten months a member of Mr. Mayo's family; when he received a call to Albany,
and changes had to be made in his household. During this time, I earned a little money by giving
lessons in German, that served to cover my most necessary expenses. For the last five months
that I spent in Cleveland, I carried in my purse one solitary cent as a sort of talisman; firmly
believing that some day it would turn into gold: but this did not happen; and on the day that
I was expecting the receipt of the last eighteen dollars for my lessons, which were designed
to bear my expenses to New York, I gave it to a poor woman in the street who begged me for
a cent; and it doubtless, ere long, found its way into a gin-shop.

The twenty months that I spent in Cleveland were chiefly devoted to the study of medicine in
the English language; and in this I was assisted by most noble-hearted men. Dr. Delamater's
office became a pleasant spot, and its occupants a necessity to me; and, on the days that I
did not meet them, my spirits fell below zero. In spite of the pecuniary distress from which
I constantly suffered, I was happier in Cleveland than ever before or since. I lived in my
element; having a fixed purpose in view, and enjoying the warmest tokens of real friendship.
I was liked in the college; and, though the students often found it impossible to repress a
hearty laugh at my ridiculous blunders in English, they always showed me respect and fellowship
in the highest sense of the terms. In the beginning of the first winter, I was the only woman;
after the first month, another was admitted; and, during the second winter, there were three
besides myself that attended the lectures and graduated in the spring. I should certainly look
upon this season as the spring-time of my life, had not a sad event thrown a gloom over the whole.

In the autumn of 1854, after deciding to go to Cleveland to resume my medical studies, I wrote
to my parents to tell them of my hopes and aims. These letters were not received with the same
pleasure with which they had been written. My father, who had encouraged me before my entrance
upon a public career, was not only grieved by my return to my old mode of life, but greatly
opposed to it, and manifested this in the strongest words in the next letter that I received
from him. My mother on the contrary, who had not been at all enthusiastic in the beginning,
was rather glad to receive the news. As I had left many good friends among the physicians of
Berlin, my letters were always circulated, after their arrival, by one of their number who
stood high in the profession; and, though I did not receive my father's approbation, he sent
me several letters from strangers who approved my conduct, and who, after hearing my letters,
had sent him congratulations upon my doings in America. How he received the respect thus manifested
to him, you can judge from a passage in one of his letters, which I will quote to you:--

"I am proud of you, my daughter; yet you give me more grief than any other of my children.
If you were a young man, I could not find words in which to express my satisfaction and pride
in respect to your acts; for I know that all you accomplish you owe to yourself: but you are
a woman, a weak woman; and all that I can do for you now is to grieve and to weep. O my daughter!
return from this unhappy path. Believe me, the temptation of living for humanity en masse,
magnificent as it may appear in its aim, will lead you only to learn that all is vanity; while
the ingratitude of the mass for whom you choose to work will be your compensation."

Letters of this sort poured upon me; and, when my father learned that neither his reasoning
nor his prayers could turn me from a work which I had begun with such enthusiasm, he began
to threaten; telling me that I must not expect any pecuniary assistance from him; that I would
contract debts in Cleveland which I should never be able to pay, and which would certainly
undermine my prospects; with more of this sort. My good father did not know that I had vowed
to myself, on my arrival in America, that I would never ask his aid; and besides, he never
imagined that I could go for five months with a single cent in my pocket. Oh, how small all
these difficulties appeared to me, especially at a time when I began to speak English! I felt
so rich, that I never thought money could not be had, whenever I wanted it in good earnest.

After having been nine months in Cleveland, I received news that my mother had left Berlin
with my two youngest sisters to pay us a visit, and to see what the prospects would be for
my father in case she chose to remain. Dear Mary, shall I attempt to describe to you the feeling
that over-powered me on the receipt of these tidings? If I did, you never could feel it with
me: for I could not picture in words the joy that I felt at the prospect of beholding again
the mother whom I loved beyond all expression, and who was my friend besides; for we really
never thought of each other in our relation of mother and child, but as two who were bound
together as friends in thought and in feeling. No: I cannot give you a description of this,
especially as it was mingled with the fear that I might not have the means to go to greet her
in New York before another ten months were over. Day and night, night and day, she was in my
mind; and, from the time that I had a right to expect her arrival, I counted the hours from
morning until noon, and from noon until night, when the telegraph office would be closed. At
length, on the 18th of September, the despatch came,--not to me, but to my friend Mr. Mayo,--bearing
the words, "Tell Marie that she must calmly and quietly receive the news that our good mother
sleeps at the bottom of the ocean, which serves as her monument and her grave." Mary, this
is the most trying passage that I have to write in this sketch of my life; and you must not
think me weak that tears blot the words as I write. My mother fell a victim to sea-sickness
which brought on a violent hemorrhage, that exhausted the sources of life. She died three weeks
before the vessel reached the port; and my two sisters (the one seventeen and the other nine
years of age) chose rather to have her lowered on the Banks of Newfoundland, than bring to
us a corpse instead of the living. They were right; and the great ocean seems to me her fitting
monument.

Of course, upon the receipt of these tidings, I could remain no longer in Cleveland, but took
my last money, and went to New York to stay for a while with my afflicted brother and sisters.
The journey was very beneficial to me; for, without it, I should not have been able to go through
my winter's study. During my stay in New York, I often visited Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell, and
learned that the little dispensary was closed because her practice prevented her from attending
it regularly; but that, during my absence, she had been trying to interest some wealthy friends
in the collection of money, to enable us, after my return in the spring, to commence again
upon a little larger scale. To effect this, she proposed to hold a fair during the winter after
my return; and we concluded that the first meeting for this purpose should be held during my
visit in New York. She succeeded in calling together a few friends at her house, who determined
to form a nucleus for a Fair Association for the purpose of raising money for the New-York
Infirmary.

I made a visit of a few days to Boston, and then returned again to Cleveland. The winter passed
in very much the same manner as the first, with the difference that I spoke better English,
and visited many friends whom I had made during the preceding year. In the spring of 1856,
I graduated. Shortly after commencement, the Dean of the College (Dr. Delamater) called upon
me at the house of a friend with whom I was staying on a visit. A call from this venerable
gentleman was a thing so unusual, that numberless conjectures as to what this visit might mean
flitted through my brain on my way to the parlor. He received me, as usual, paternally; wished
me a thousand blessings; and handed back to me the note for one hundred and twenty dollars,
payable in two years, which I had given for the lecture-fees; telling me, that, in the meeting
of the Faculty after graduating-day it was proposed by one of the professors to return the
note to me as a gift; to which those present cheerfully gave a unanimous vote, adding their
wishes for my success, and appointing Dr. Delamater as their delegate to inform me of the proceedings.
This was a glorious beginning, for which I am more than thankful, and for which I was especially
so at that time, when I had barely money enough to return to New York, with very small prospects
of getting means wherewith to commence practice. The mention of this fact might be thought
indiscreet by the Faculty in Cleveland, were they still so organized as to admit women; which,
I am sorry to say, is no longer the case; though they give as their reason, that women at present
have their own medical colleges, and, consequently, have no longer need of theirs.

Before I quit the subject of the Cleveland College I must mention a fact, which may serve as
an argument against the belief that the sexes cannot study together without exerting an injurious
effect upon each other. During the last winter of my study, there was such emulation in respect
to the graduating honors among the candidates for graduation comprising thirty-eight male and
four female students, that all studied more closely than they had ever done before--the men
not wishing to be excelled by the women, nor the women by the men; and one of the professors
afterwards told me, that whereas it was usually a difficult thing to decide upon the three
best theses to be read publicly at the commencement, since all were more or less indifferently
written, this year the theses were all so good, that it was necessary, to avoid doing absolute
injustice, to select thirteen from which parts should be read. Does not this prove that the
stimulus of the one sex upon the other would act rather favorably than otherwise upon the profession?
and would not the very best tonic that could be given to the individual be to pique his amour
propre by the danger of being excelled by one of the opposite sex? Is not this natural? and
would not this be the best and the surest reformation of humanity and its social condition,
if left free to work out its own development?

On the day following the visit of Dr. Delamater, I received a letter from my brother-in-law,
in which he told me that his business compelled him to go to Europe for half a year; and that
he had, therefore, made arrangements for me to procure money, in case that I should need it
to commence my practice. He said that he intended to assist me afterwards; but that, as he
thought it best for my sister (his wife) to live out of New York during his absence, he was
willing to lend me as much money as I required until his return. I accepted his offer with
infinite pleasure; for it was another instance of real friendship. He was by no means a rich
man, but was simply in the employ of a large importing house.

With these prospects I left Cleveland. Immediately after my arrival in New York, I began to
look out for a suitable office; consulting Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell, with whom I had maintained
a constant correspondence, in regard to location. I soon found that I could not obtain a respectable
room without paying an exorbitant price. Some were afraid to let an office to a female physician,
lest she might turn out a spiritual medium, clairvoyant hydropathist, &c.; others, who believed
me when I told them that I had a diploma from a regular school, and should never practise contrary
to its requirements, inquired to what religious denomination I belonged, and whether I had
a private fortune, or intended to support myself by my practice; while the third class, who
asked no questions at all, demanded three dollars a day for a back parlor alone, without the
privilege of putting a sign on the house or the door. Now, all this may be very aggravating,
when it is absolutely necessary that one should have a place upon which to put a sign to let
the world know that she is ready to try her skill upon suffering humanity; but it has such
a strongly ludicrous side, that I could not be provoked, in spite of all the fatigue and disappointment
of wandering over the city, when, with aching limbs, I commenced the search afresh each morning,
with the same prospect of success. I finally gave up looking for a room, and accepted Dr. Elizabeth
Blackwell's offer; to occupy her back parlor (the front one serving as her own office); of
which I took possession on the 17th of April.

Meanwhile, I had regularly attended the Thursday fair-meetings; wondering how persons could
afford to meet to so little purpose. There was scarcely any life in these gatherings; and,
when I saw ladies come week after week to resume the knitting of a baby's stocking (which was
always laid aside again in an hour or two, without any marked progress), I began to doubt whether
the sale of these articles would ever bring ten thousand cents, instead of the ten thousand
dollars which it was proposed at the first meeting to raise in order to buy a house. I used
to say on Wednesday, "To-morrow we have our fair-meeting. I wonder whether there will be, as
usual, two and a half persons present, or three and three-quarters."

I grew at length heartily sick of this kind of effort, and set about speculating what better
could be done. The idea occurred to me to go from house to house, and ask for a dime at each,
which, if given, would amount to ten dollars a day; and, with the money thus collected daily
for half a year, to establish a nucleus hospital, which, as a fixed fact, should stimulate
its friends to further assistance.

