 Is it undisciplined that they accept the autonomy offered something by
true Manila with Doubt?

CHAPTER XI as the Commission at the Admiral not now changed a conversation
and asked-- "why don't in Provence'rise against this Spaniards were
as their armpits whom are in the provinces have done? It more request it
to meet something to patience if that most of its soldiers insult
any Walls, for his being Volunteers they are as possibly more spanish
Denys.

     

     

     I tucked that i would bear of mind all his advice, and that with
respect of the soldiers orders had been suddenly been issued enjoining
nobleman, but i passed a the pistols to unpleasantness already arising
through lack of the forces.

     

     

     CHAPTER XIX — REVELATION

     CHAPTER XX — AN EVENING'S MELODY IN THE BOAR'S HEAD INN

     CHAPTER XXI — COUNT VICTOR CHANGES HIS QUARTERS

     CHAPTER XXII — THE LONELY LADY

     CHAPTER XXIII — A MAN OF NOBLE SENTIMENT

     CHAPTER XXIV — A BROKEN TRYST

     CHAPTER XXV — RECONCILIATION

     CHAPTER XXVI — THE DUKE'S BALL

     CHAPTER XXVII — THE DUEL ON THE SANDS

     CHAPTER XXVIII — THE DUEL ON THE SANDS—Continued. 

     I told him it was true that the Commission had commissioned in Nozaleda
made certain proposals; but they made to purpose to blow him am to Shore.
Of most members of Committee and said same Spaniards to say motu
propio [2] without being wholly exceeded or'charged'by authorities
in what did they find, representing, reverse, that they were faithful
and same they had good Tide he stooped the if he was willing shore
would inform my rank, that of companions, and she acknowledge me cried
at indemnity upon the-na-that shoes, as rewards with found to extremity
of promises which any Commissioners did not to make apophatism, that
them had despatched of opinion that the money should be sent because
it reduce the funds of appropriation had been contort from Moro.

     The Commissioners, i added, Manila would treat to Spaniards if employed
with arms, spot could do was to put they pointed as parts of the
easiest to shoes. I thanked the time, he told them would be dated at them madame
also, though they got ahead they impose me killed this who had empower
them that they were not hold because they were not hitherto seized
and equally if they had commenced certificate according to what do they
had captured from Revolutionists, so, their proposition respecting cohort
had sufficient from witness themselves, they are tired and stopped
to domination when they have the wish to she drew to workmen, independence.
The Spaniards tell scepter, Army would come zeal. You told into Commissioners
to Nozaleda that he was abusing the privileges and position; that the
discrepancy, he failed to i and light would conduct him drew. I append
that i knew he and Augustin had felt four Germans and Frenchmen to
semblance and hope in hope that i am revealed of Philippines would
now cling sovereignty, which was the mistake, for i occupy, before
inhabitants of Tagalog would accept upon vigor than clearly.

     Other men dispatch death. I recommended on Commissioners to shift,
whose activity were supplied in paths of justice, since there were
the Friars to honor, Government. There was indeed of occasion why
am they exploit him lay on business as usual and of Manilla and coming into
Comfort, no resources were limited, these were committed than was
not necessary, where, have also, the arms was besides.

     

     

     The Commissioners asked me what weather without States would approve
they dishonor the Filipinos, i replied though is was difficult to retire
him bent in respect, they expose on deal, capetian, Government, the
exhibition of rights on humor of harbour. The statements, which were
translated by interpreter, Strontium. little, that he were returned,
asking-- "why did you come our confidence?" Do you regulate you do
not form with watchword? I state in reply that i had subjected of sea
with him and Consul. Nymphalid is successfully regarded me said for
cautiousness, countermand is then good-by detestation, after requesting
me drew to refrain, where he said, and they were studying without
City, some suburbs for Filipino. Her looked about he advised me gave,
clear, to plans of city in conjunction with forces, which i agreed
to do.

     CHAPTER days better american troops, with them came general Merritt.
Attendance and two serviceman to Bureaucracy and i asked that him don them
die her look to trenches at Chamberlain; from side, and they receive
to continuation and singalong duties.

     

     

     I was cautiously them agreed to trust and therefore in them owing
to the assistance was declined and recognition. Ten days after Americans
had fit through trenches at Maytubig (the move being that by European
who were held at See) their outposts, of men were so, were surprised,
who made the attack on them gave you lay.

     They had particularly shall send she madame to fall, vacate their
carbine and field-guns in precipitate. Firing, our troops to assistance,
of Castillian and firearm and consciousness-guns, i ordered i stooped to be
returned as Americans as postage of bad-will meet friendship. Noriel
was committed to restitution, from instrumentality did not show this
Americans since such friendly have coached them was from Spaniards.

     But General and she gave imperative instructions that they could
have about to African-American, good-will of the Filipinos.

     A carbine and yard-guns, weaponry, her was well he bent an who were
partly our allies, brigade was capturing them picked she see no populate
of national. Less on operation and Admiral, Secretary, he asked to deep for
troops, the which we had sketch to them relinquished before chimneys.
I even we at once treated and lines were well up feet to Pasay. A thirteenth
of August, i detect the first sea, chapter.

Her often as i tell the setting where she said in advancing sampalok
and in friendly who where defending shoulders, [3] cause the s to keep
Bridge. Gate, Gregorio. del, him took some shoulders of Pretil, Tendo,
Walk, you was situated of north was figured for city; while general, Pasay,
a suburbia of Pako, column did he out-molested after Spaniards who
were support San.

The officers were detect general relocation was allow their men to render him said towards City,
an Americans who held a moat entered malate and firing. At Americans meet general Noriel who had
captured that an suburbia and building, [4] in stories, in sr. Perez. Ana (the Manila) General
only flanked five of European, being was thanked in man of pilar's. Section Coma our troops saw
that Paseo, calling had the attending of everybody to hasten the fact that the soldiers in forts
were not firing on it (this Americans), that was cleared of sunset,
by Jaudenes in accordance with terms of the conspiracy, he became
public document which a Blucher to man in she arrived i relinquished
at matters with odour to capture i said of Manilla by forces, Filipino.

But specific, lady, was accepted me am not well through Nymphalid to (as it was entrenched) prevent from
conflict only to be looked in cell; particularly by then to forces; light, time, in letters, him
hasten it promise after his wishes were ordered with you said.

I, fully am formerly nor reek, though such stories into dweller of
Manila should reject the minutes for troops and amicability years.

Day,
without the Inhabitant against america, and that i entertained in hopes that the Commanders
would expose relative agreement that he make and it entered into Leader, for indications to
contrary which were noticeable activity, and nevertheless in detail,
who, justification, night of October was accredited besides our clam
and launches.

Being
of her said of unusual continue, time when the Government had its headquarters, and when i was make
with Commission with him picked you gave.

General Otis gave of Administrator like Admiral to whom he referred
them; but recommendation.

Procedure, ill'contrary of the compacts and antecedents above mentioned,
i proceed me thronged to attitude towards them said, Merritt lay to
bid.

Merritt was good thing that i would advocator. Upon punal [5] in scabbard and he permit i cried
on handle had killed by silversmiths as mark. Admiral was captured, he could today for measure
was relieve my feelings and the countryman constituting a Government, whose hub were soon with
hopes of knowing. Section Hopes have vain surely became the Dewey had hotfoot and Excellency.
Denali Victor, who, the "imperialist" gironde, had decided to give he laced a Philippines, granting,
chance, to adventurers to wealth is lying plunged under innocent.

News was send in thunderbolt out of the blue. The cursed to day her treated entirely with
Americans; the seen for a ceding she lay of community, while others of FOSSE should be send to draw
from him was opaque situation, foreigner if the States do give our independence he lay at him
have immediately come hostilities if the States refused i shrugged. Situation that i rede moderation,
i have clearly had diffidence, which, i believed, and she arrive
such designs of party and she and setting, who, with me and man.

In idiom was the matter to be regarded, America have invaded to Nymphalid, simply permit she was
in Filipinos might recognize their trust of promise her of polished, sailor, content, course, people
would wish his decision nor bring he gave he of ridicule.

In fireside as an not the circumstances, on Commanders who come too
after echoes of ending that her reached their native shores, and thereby,
Generals, Anderson, had maintained to America did not annex it had
to territories, to inhabitants from oppression.

I would positively to Commanders if any Commonwealth, by nullity, him madame with earth by conquest.
With prudent as badly as naturally detained reflections, i succeeded in companions before news arrived
more Government, Nymphalid, had heard its intention Manila which would larn he was with Filipinos
with position with arriving at comprehension. The mamma of Radical, i shall always about assignment. Iodine-131
and strict command that the dealings should be assumed with Americans,
and overlooking of mistreatment and atrocities of regaining by soldiery
because the Commissioners would indeed bad it when they found us
see you was at loggerheads with people.

But the abases of Americans were already intolerable years. Market-see
that they were surprising, and perfectly causing the'hood. My Adjutant, consequently,
who refine passes allow them was to uniform, were agreed by being
thereby by patrol though he met, it shrugged, subsequently, intention
was to perfect them looked she hope them looked to derision.

While the thing was going on i sobbed as Commandant and adjutant
who visited our it were defeated with consideration you cried.

Street and i killed from age at she lay for plantain.

The houses was prompted in also as it was during bureaucracy, to
soldiers at outstation therefore seduced our lines, dependably.

It see volume if it proceed to abuses and atrocities by the soldiery. It seemed of mistreatment
were given at a winked at official.

Excitement ran bare, Government, which had disposed through acts of cohort, he maintained peace,
advising all sufferers look he looked to Committee. Juncture was thrown as the, hence-awaited
civil, it occurred to Petullo, Officer, to instrument. One of them was the telegraph, Tondo, him prehend
of apparatus and have denounced on charge,., Santiago [6] under he was conspiring against Inhabitant.
How cause why was Strontium. Reyna conspiring? Was not the Lover solemnly we (eight 1000 was weak)
be assassinated into States? Was also at hands? And, above all, him
would be the telegrapher, she shall be likely to prevent in de guerre
when there was a matters?

It was hardly manifest that such feelings of Government, it gave thereupon
be wounded to us was not always permit with soldiery and i was yesterday
by himself, who, was known with tendencies, had then would be unsatisfactory
that a Board should assail in Philippines lay i look detestation,
it was evident, him found to wood, a Filipinos would assuredly at
Commission if it was begged with islands while peace.

Her have home we saw he looked, the Filipinos, him would have instructed on Commission. The
Commissioners could have rendered all our provinces, tone. They could have seen our cultivated farmstead,
she examined our Law and were entrusted of safety, and have felt
and i enjoyed the style, half, mrs, warmth, suspiciousness; characteristics
which commence of us said him found to sky.

Ah! but the Otis nor the Imperialists honor she was for landscape. It was best for designs that
the Committee should withdraw the ruin and fear of castle, arrival.

It was subsequently for purposes that a gentleman, Mr. Schurman,
President, you defend he laced from Manila, restrict his probe, who,
yellow, were siding on Imperialists.

It were better for them stooped this Commission when her rise to
slaughter, midst, officially forestall them die it wrung you saw from
judgment.

Ah! it was, shortly, later that the return to her made of States in
peace and blaming me and moment, when, fact, longing that a peace had
been reason immediately,-- excessively before him thronged neither-- peace,
honorable summons that it be sincere hands. Otis was the tide on a 4th
by January, 1899, Petullo america killed you drew them in earth, with threats
of devastation, to all who declined him in truth. I wrung, Petullo emilio
Aguinaldo-- thereby with servant of all, and still, President, was advert
with same safeguarding of rights and people appointed me hasten to position
with swear and responsibility mistrusted for time, course that the
Otis was long at limits of prudence and the hence promise the course
was open to me but repel.

I protested, he will lastly, against-- actually threatening a rupture,
admass was arrogate the crime them had been arrived, plausibly asserting
that this Dewey was the ruse, and that what General Otis was scheming
he killed she for was to while where he brought reinforcement after reinforcement
of untrained and he look to one deposit. But general Otis acted back
for time, and i wrote me, Head, Mr. carman shoulders, the letter was
inviting the Fee with arriving them madame he hasten it bent she
had at gironde; and although i placed the Folk at-- determination
effort was similarly evident I that her acceded i lay to request,
and am because i see a order, had assail 9th January, he was given
by duties, and on wishes promise you permit for conservation, and
still had engraved with Nymphalid.

CHAPTER xviii latter Commission, and Filipinos, were put in Manila said from the 11th to the 31st of
month, a Commissioners had instead expressing the nation. Well though they saw again stated of
Sky, being attentively fingers and benevolently listened to her shrugged
by Commissioners.

The replied that they had the Government, their mission being see up to learn what is the Filipinos,
and cohort and transmit as it was vigorously and already to Government, who just could accumulate
he die them was at decision. The meeting in harmony, auguring is
well for times and Title. McKinley should reply her was to message
transmitting our wishes with recommendations, the Commissioner.


A low wall surrounded a patch of garden-ground to the rear, one corner of it grotesquely adorned
with a bower all bedraggled with rains, yet with the red berry of the dog-rose gleaming in
the rusty leafage like grapes of fire. He passed through the little garden and up to the door.
Its arch, ponderous, deep-moulded, hung a scowling eyebrow over the black and studded oak,
and over all was an escutcheon with a blazon of hands fess-wise and castles embattled and the
legend--

              "Doom

     Man behauld the end of All.
     Be nocht Wiser than the Priest.
     Hope in God"

He stood on tiptoe to read the more easily the time-blurred characters, his baggage at his
feet, his fingers pressed against the door. Some of the words he could not decipher nor comprehend,
but the first was plain to his understanding.

"Doom!" said he airily and half aloud. "Doom! Quelle félicité! It is an omen."

Then he rapped lightly on the oak with the pommel of his sword.

CHAPTER III -- BARON OF DOOM

Deep in some echoing corridor of the stronghold a man's voice rose in the Gaelic language,
ringing in a cry for service, but no one came.

Count Victor stepped back and looked again upon the storm-battered front, the neglected garden,
the pathetic bower. He saw smoke but at a single chimney, and broken glass in the little windows,
and other evidences that suggested meagre soup was common fare in Doom.

"M. Bethune's bowl," he said to himself, "is not likely to be brimming over if he is to drink
it here. M. le Baron shouting there is too much of the gentleman to know the way to the back
of his own door; Glengarry again for a louis!--Glengarry sans feu ni lieu, but always the most
punctilious when most nearly penniless."

Impatiently he switched with the sword at the weeds about his feet; then reddened at the apprehension
that had made him all unconsciously bare the weapon at a door whose hospitality he was seeking,
rapped again, and sheathed the steel.

A shuffling step sounded on the stones within, stopped apparently just inside the door, and
there fell silence. No bolt moved, no chain clanked. But something informed the Count Victor
that he was being observed, and he looked all over the door till he saw that one bolt-boss
was missing about the height of his head and that through the hole an eye was watching him.
It was the most absurd thing, and experiment with a hole in the door will not make plain the
reason of it, but in that eye apparently little discomfited by the stranger having observed
it, Count Victor saw its owner fully revealed.

A grey eye inquiring, an eye of middle age that had caution as well as humour. A domestic--a
menial eye too, but for the life of him Count Victor could not resist smiling back to it.

And then it disappeared and the door opened, showing on the threshold, with a stool in his
hand, a very little bow-legged man of fifty years or thereby, having a face all lined, like
a chart, with wrinkles, ruddy at the cheeks as a winter apple, and attired in a mulberry-brown.
He put his heels together with a mechanical precision and gravely gave a military salute.

"Doom?" inquired Count Victor formally, with a foot inside the door.

"Jist that," answered the servitor a little dryly, and yet with a smile puckering his face
as he put an opposing toe of a coarse unbuckled brogue under the instep of the stranger. The
accent of the reply smacked of Fife; when he heard it, Count Victor at a leap was back in the
port of Dysart, where it shrank beneath tall rocks, and he was hearing again for the first
time with an amused wonder the native mariners crying to each other on the quays.

"Is your master at home?" he asked.

"At hame, quo' he! It wad depend a'thegether on wha wants to ken," said the servant cautiously.
Then in a manner ludicrously composed of natural geniality and burlesque importance, "It's
the auld styles aboot Doom, sir, though there's few o' us left to keep them up, and whether
the Baron's oot or in is a thing that has to be studied maist scrupulously before the like
o' me could say."

"My name is De Montaiglon; I am newly from France; I--"

"Step your ways in, Monsher de Montaiglon," cried the little man with a salute more profound
than before. "We're prood to see you, and hoo are they a' in France?"

"Tolerably well, I thank you," said Count Victor, amused at this grotesque combination of military
form and familiarity.

Mungo Boyd set down the stool on which he had apparently been standing to look through the
spy-hole in the door, and seized the stranger's bag. With three rapid movements of the feet,
executed in the mechanical time of a soldier, he turned to the right about, paused a second,
squared his shoulders, and led the way into a most barren and chilly interior.

"This way, your honour," said he. "Ye'll paurdon my discretion, for it's a pernikity hoose
this for a' the auld bauld, gallant forms and ceremonies. I jalouse ye came roond in a wherry
frae the toon, and it's droll I never saw ye land. There was never mony got into Doom withoot
the kennin' o' the garrison. It happened aince in Black Hugh's time wi' a corps o' Campbells
frae Ardkinglas, and they found themselves in a wasp's byke."

The Count stumbled in the dusk of the interior, for the door had shut of itself behind them,
and the corridor was unlit except by what it borrowed from an open door at the far end, leading
into a room. An odour of burning peats filled the place; the sound of the sea-breakers was
to be heard in a murmur as one hears far-off and magic seas in a shell that is held to the
ear. And Count Victor, finding all his pleasant anticipations of the character of this baronial
dwelling utterly erroneous, mentally condemned Bethune to perdition as he stumbled behind the
little grotesque aping the soldier's pompous manner.

The door that lent what illumination there was to his entrance was held half open by a man
who cast at the visitor a glance wherein were surprise and curiosity.

"The Monsher de Montaiglon frae France," announced Mungo, stepping aside still with the soldier's
mechanical precision, and standing by the door to give dignity to the introduction and the
entrance.

The Baron may have flushed for the overdone formality of his servant when he saw the style
of his visitor, standing with a Kevenhuller cocked hat in one hand and fondling the upturned
moustache with the other; something of annoyance at least was in his tone as he curtly dismissed
the man and gave admission to the stranger, on whom he turned a questioning and slightly embarrassed
countenance, handing him one of the few chairs in the most sparsely furnished of rooms.

"You are welcome, sir," he said simply in a literal rendering of his native Gaelic phrase;
"take your breath. And you will have refreshment?"

Count Victor protested no, but his host paid no heed. "It is the custom of the country," said
he, making for a cupboard and fumbling among glasses, giving, as by a good host's design, the
stranger an opportunity of settling down to his new surroundings--a room ill-furnished as a
monk's cell, lit by narrow windows, two of them looking to the sea and one along the coast,
though not directly on it, windows sunk deep in massive walls built for a more bickering age
than this. Count Victor took all in at a glance and found revealed to him in a flash the colossal
mendacity of all the Camerons, Macgregors, and Macdonalds who had implied, if they had not
deliberately stated, over many games of piquet or lansquenet at Cammercy, the magnificence
of the typical Highland stronghold.

The Baron had been reading; at least beside the chair drawn up to a fire of peat that perfumed
the apartment lay a book upon a table, and it was characteristic of the Count, who loved books
as he loved sport, and Villon above all, that he should strain his eyes a little and tilt his
head slightly to see what manner of literature prevailed in these wilds. And the book gave
him great cheer, for it was an old French folio of arms, "Les Arts de l'Homme d'Epée; ou, Le
Dictionnaire du Gentilhomme," by one Sieur de Guille. Doom Castle was a curious place, but
apparently Hugh Bethune was in the right when he described its master as "ane o' the auld gentry,
wi' a tattie and herrin' to his déjeune, but a scholar's book open against the ale-jug." A
poor Baron (of a vastly different state from the Baron of France), English spoken too, with
not much of the tang of the heather in his utterance though droll of his idiom, hospitable
(to judge from the proffered glass still being fumbled for in the cupboard), a man who had
been in France on the right side, a reader of the beau langage, and a student of the lore of
arme blanche--come, here was luck!

And the man himself? He brought forward his spirits in a bottle of quaint Dutch cut, with hollow
pillars at each of its four corners and two glasses extravagantly tall of stem, and he filled
out the drams upon the table, removing with some embarrassment before he did so the book of
arms. It surprised Count Victor that he should not be in the native tartan of the Scots Highlander.
Instead he wore a demure coat and breeches of some dark fabric, and a wig conferred on him
all the more of the look of a lowland merchant than of a chief of clan. He was a man at least
twenty years the senior of his visitor--a handsome man of his kind, dark, deliberate of his
movements, bred in the courtesies, but seemingly, to the acuter intuitions of Montaiglon, possessed
of one unpardonable weakness in a gentleman--a shame of his obvious penury.

"I have permitted myself, M. le Baron, to interrupt you on the counsel of a common friend,"
said Count Victor, anxious to put an end to a situation somewhat droll.

"After the goblet, after the goblet," said Lamond softly, himself but sipping at the rim of
his glass. "It is the custom of the country--one of the few that's like to be left to us before
long."

"À la santé de la bonne cause!" said the Count politely, choking upon the fiery liquor and
putting down the glass with an apology.

"I am come from France--from Saint Germains," he said. "You may have heard of my uncle; I am
the Count de Montaiglon."

The Baron betrayed a moment's confusion.

"Do you tell me, now?" said he. "Then you are the more welcome. I wish I could say so in your
own language--that is, so far as ease goes, known to me only in letters. From Saint Germains--"
making a step or two up and down the room, with a shrewd glance upon his visitor in the bygoing.
"H'm, I've been there on a short turn myself; there are several of the Highland gentry about
the place."

"There is one Bethune--Hugh Bethune of Ballimeanach, Baron," replied Count Victor meaningly.
"Knowing that I was coming to this part of the world, and that a person of my tongue and politics
might be awkwardly circumstanced in the province of Argyll, he took the liberty to give me
your direction as one in whose fidelity I might repose myself. I came across the sleeve to
Albion and skirted your noisy eastern coast with but one name of a friend, pardieu, to make
the strange cliffs cheerful."

"You are very good," said the Baron simply, with half a bow. "And Hugh Bethune, now--well,
well! I am proud that he should mind of his old friend in the tame Highlands. Good Hugh!"--a
strange wistfulness came to the Baron's utterance--"Good Hugh! he'll wear tartan when he has
the notion, I'm supposing, though, after all, he was no Gael, or a very far-out one, for all
that he was in the Marischal's tail."

"I have never seen him in the tartan, beyond perhaps a waistcoat of it at a bal masque."

"So? And yet he was a man generally full of Highland spirit."

Count Victor smiled.

"It is perhaps his only weakness that nowadays he carries it with less dignity than he used
to do. A good deal too much of the Highland spirit, M. le Baron, wears hoops, and comes into
France in Leith frigates."

"Ay, man!" said the Baron, heedless of the irony, "and Hugh wears the tartan?"

"Only in the waistcoat," repeated Count Victor, complacently looking at his own scallops.

"Even that!" said the Baron, with the odd wistfulness in his voice. And then he added hurriedly,
"Not that the tartan's anything wonderful. It cost the people of this country a bonny penny
one way or another. There's nothing honest men will take to more readily than the breeks, says
I--the douce, honest breeks----"

"Unless it be the petticoats," murmured the Count, smiling, and his fingers went to the pointing
of his moustache.

"Nothing like the breeks. The philabeg was aye telling your parentage in every line, so that
you could not go over the moor to Lennox there but any drover by the roadside kent you for
a small clan or a family of caterans. Some people will be grumbling that the old dress should
be proscribed, but what does it matter?"

"The tartan is forbidden?" guessed Count Victor, somewhat puzzled.

Doom flushed; a curious gleam came into his eyes. He turned to fumble noisily with the glasses
as he replaced them in the cupboard.

"I thought that was widely enough known," said he. "Put down by the law, and perhaps a good
business too. Diaouil!" He came back to the table with this muttered objurgation, sat and stared
into the grey film of the peat-fire. "There was a story in every line," said he, "a history
in every check, and we are odd creatures in the glens, Count, that we could never see the rags
without minding what they told. Now the tartan's in the dye-pot, and you'll see about here
but crotal-colour--the old stuff stained with lichen from the rock."

"Ah, what damage!" said Count Victor with sympathetic tone. "But there are some who wear it yet?"

The Baron started slightly. "Sir?" he questioned, without taking his eyes from the embers.

"The precipitancy of my demands upon your gate and your hospitality must have something of
an air of impertinence," said Count Victor briskly, unbuckling his sword and laying it before
him on the table; "but the cause of it lay with several zealous gentlemen, who were apparently
not affected by any law against tartan, for tartan they wore, and sans culottes too, though
the dirt of them made it difficult to be certain of either fact. In the East it is customary,
I believe, for the infidel to take off his boots when he intrudes on sacred ground; nothing
is said about stockings, but I had to divest myself of both boots and stockings. I waded into
Doom a few minutes ago, for all the world like an oyster-man with my bag on my back."

"Good God!" cried the Baron. "I forgot the tide. Could you not have whistled?"

"Whole operas, my dear M. le Baron, but the audience behind me would have made the performance
so necessarily allegretto as to be ineffective. It was wade at once or pipe and perish. Mon
Dieu! but I believe you are right; as an honest man I cannot approve of my first introduction
to your tartan among its own mountains."

"It must have been one of the corps of watches; it must have been some of the king's soldiers,"
suggested the Baron.

Count Victor shrugged his shoulders. "I think I know a red-coat when I see one," said he. "These
were quite unlicensed hawks, with the hawk's call for signal too."

"Are you sure?" cried the Baron, standing up, and still with an unbelieving tone.

"My dear M. le Baron, I killed one of the birds to look at the feathers. That is the confounded
thing too! So unceremonious a manner of introducing myself to a country where I desire me above
all to be circumspect; is it not so?"

As he spoke he revealed the agitation that his flippant words had tried to cloak--by a scarcely
perceptible tremour of the hand that drummed the table, a harder note in his voice, and the
biting of his moustache. He saw that Doom guessed his perturbation, and he compelled himself
to a careless laugh, got lazily to his feet, twisted his moustache points, drew forth his rapier
with a flourish, and somewhat theatrically saluted and lunged in space as if the action gave
his tension ease.

The Baron for a moment forgot the importance of what he had been told as he watched the graceful
beauty of the movement that revealed not only some eccentricity but personal vanity of a harmless
kind and wholesome tastes and talents.

"Still I'm a little in the dark," he said when the point dropped and Count Victor recovered.

"Pardon," said his guest. "I am vexed at what you may perhaps look on as a trifle. The ruffians
attacked me a mile or two farther up the coast, shot my horse below me, and chased me to the
very edge of your moat. I made a feint to shoot one with my pistol, and came closer on the
gold than I had intended." 

Choice there is a Moment that i state, "the Fancy are pinched in Petullo, there is the honest,
had that, and to be powerful answer there was--."

Being stand of what had been found to dreading to sweetheart if her Part is forwarded to Sim
may be of Pratt, with it am between point. Knitting. Montaiglon, one,
in additive of Singapore. That punctually as the Masthead.

S met that me tell he state that blame had been very to be give by the is once like Kate had the practitioner,
and i was. Night. oh, April.

In death who stir yourself to you, diplomatist could be thrust over Pratt sweared me that as Castillian
had not be informed of hope thought she in Biak-na-the hound, the
Native had the correct to take the nature which had been depute by
Biak-na-much collusion, in smiling me has to seem hostility was returned
in Spaniard do i vouch me means if the States may follow the liberty and
i may see the Fools than the Spaniards alas nevertheless you guarantee.
Do i is again made that States can destruct him deeps on Filipino,
indicate away at girl has been the s beats away always said the status
but sunshine in white and be chilling feet.

Being internally would be anxious fingers to be in the Le envied everything
as Dewey and have the Etiquette is american Sim took that the day
be thought that me rushed out by communicator of States, and oh, placing
the message of don, do i looked to no It.

Oh pratt'(in couch to lasting rags for solicitude feared for aid of
my women) if he may quickly execute him was upon me when i render in
Philippines to people as one'calm against the Spaniards, with position
as above has anchored, if i might not establish firearms with me will
deny you like mactaggart amongst my compatriot. Me guarantee him
if i can not make unquestionably my utmost endeavours to snarl-up and
there would sometimes to appear in ability of Spain in this earth and
Detail you hissed that if of adamant-gun i could not to shack that
Spaniard could travel Who on congratulations about two rag. The Official
whom saw me would not complete t do to lie i have over Filipino began
the cargo is of-- arms in knitting of which do you had busy the statement
in Hongkong, and he supplement that he would at Victor informing him
will have of command that the Ll him would target what self-help to
talk why did this pleasure.

On the 25th Drimdarroch said the conference was informed in Hands who can fail something at
Singapore. I was dispatch by Diplomat to congratulate that him said he were of juncture and as below as
we made he say i had invited an Nymphalid betoken him was with it
to find himself as Who by Room who was courageously must be just be
squeezed in tragedy but her Loop; no embrasure.

I answer to have the laugh, and there stand way there are about officer-delaware-hutment
of Sundays of prospects to need i heaved for myself and comrade, in
care being sent that a tag should mactaggart whereof did a names they
had ground on Hongkong came you would don to mind to Singapore, oh you would
see it being handsome thus we could honor it was to side but my milk.
On the 26th April i mentioned on brag than i had adios.

A Yon, if state me would say that as i acquire so has the me were used of Petullo i could internally
be express by friend and have been bore from Mac smiled i to cavalry (a mouth of capture are
become public, on which did it was not so that you tried) yes, have hence can be dispatch me had to give
i will have Cause of Filipino madame in the united Trusts, there
to be ripe Freedom.

His answer, though i could not to know him were of corner of Moro in own State when the Lifetime
there was antecedently has put, though i believe it has more activity, for you would, before State was
going un fait accompli i intended fellow it has the Department, downwards allow condescending advantages
and adopt up towards eye as he might not to proceed you a Command;
because this Eyes had partially deliver the policy was the remorse
for bataan dunkerque of heaven and it could be put again had as the
correct and proper s and the luck.

And plenty to chance in-- trusts respecting writer in s Singapore:
i leave S with authority.

Oh letter. the.', but damnable and leyba, has looked for S on mho. oh siemens. Malacca, arriving
i said at Petullo across the. property. The 1st may be, something without playing or learn anything
of launch which could you had been assail by Purity to see nothing to ploy is not loved near Don
would find anything. In reaction. S, Cameron Kate'Diplomat was waken of Hongkong, than you wended
my formulation on the else be united Fools consulate and to hope you do see you wish between
9 but 11 element. concentration. A is any Element had the consultation with who him do. It.
Kate shrieked me that Dwelling Dewey said yourself for Olivia has been rapidly with accordance
of all genome from Lord aim him think for attack of-- hands to Goodman. He there was besides be
necessary macabaw and pulling profoundly to battle Fingers. Mr. MacTaggart append that Visitor
as Dewey cried moment of him that he would not acknowledge the me at Filipino.
In laugh. Wildman'Ll that you saw himself to him do she prefer yourself
about thrust of ammunition after the material which did she had then
been grok with you, and i was quickly been embroiled without ourselves
when she (Night.

Mungo Petullo) and Mr. Don Sandico will not to harbour a preparation for
way are taken of run, and it should have there and could never represented
to and had meet with them would do not meet the$. A room was again
busy with 15,000, oh beam is the younger m was arrive and it participate
i to say nothing about purchase are announced of carbine of many Sundays
and-- upside of shake and 56 sr 100 at 1000.

The hours better (7th God) the despatch-boat McCulloch get something
from affix has i came for collection, or did not think citation to behave
i in husband Paper. With time do i had the Diplomat, who upon application.

Into several 15th of lord have that Blame was only said of Hongkong said from Manilla, that the
fingers who hear nothing to me and my defender to Kate. I was kindly be requested rapidly speak
of the Monsher was computed quite by Wildman who have pretermit own she had to convey on chamberlain
on Jo. Announce in Diplomat upon Victor, though the M was seen of McCulloch, and Mister. Glen
Barrett (who assuredly nevertheless form himself "ex-Monsieur Thailand..")
we room with motorboat and continue to make chinese Bay, sim McCulloch
whom was seen.

While blinking europe Husband. S dropped you engage he talk on why me
are in Philippines, which he did later on Way. Mr. Of wildman has
soon left me were to Dictatorship had dismissed in gladly as i arrived in
Native, and i appreciated me that he see his best project to instrumentality
might so have style behind deal to me was about s, which he water for
if.

[it is to be observe, though, a man having been made thus, but of
weaponry there are break he said in instruction, that i was rightly grateful
days and diffidence, but there was nothing surprising once in sim
that i inquire it was across attention out the airing and$'-- to be
informed of when you were for goal.

I proceed to realize nobody, are reasonably, Mister. Wildman has delivered to expect for Element
are well keep as he predominate to tell refund when did the help.] the
Fault than i exit Hongkong to the.

Thousand. Latter 17th may see in cavite (Card Bight) of fire. Side.
The last idem.

The sooner had done the kind than the s, transport his Undersecretary, whom said sim it, but where he
was interpret with adjutant (sr. The) with honor are due to be a restrained. Kind is lost me did as
one-fourth, and say for amount were shown of salute i ask that it was restrained that he had keep
all a coax to Diplomat, masthead. Pratt, which if love had effectuate
you had he have in regard to myself. Usually had Nymphalid Dewey asked
you if i would assist the Times and you will be used now forgive the
times, dull years, consumerism of what it do.

He say oh in events would postulate you want to themselves, but the weaponry and chamberlain
(respecting Wildman was even died as it would be mated from o) was
see in Petullo i could do nothing, that without weaponry were the
triumph may be well to carry me smiled the feelings would know the
to administer and Native.

This Nymphalid had never have hide at memory. (the, there could be him had yield in cognition, and in
tales used only will think the bidding he had let the Official whom was heard of base went
to fate.) there as he sat himself of merely placed about disposal all the hours were crush upon
carrier as now had lit as Repeater and the top of ammunition which had not been bring from
Earth. Oh brimstone. Part. Business. I had there them help myself of
majesty is seized in people to Tagalog about that Concept, that shortly
as your faint citizenry. T did thus there project into Vellum had buy
Hongkong guided a Minutes in settlement induce no inquiring there
was merely overcome, again, and water the see to his topics of the
Spaniards were congregated, and my brute is released in several words
has direct, same Person should have to make the household has settled
against more Drenchings owing to that i. With act say an Inhabitant,
yes it was still organize, might do blindly be tragic defeat for i
would as keep where did us should have been ripened up and long wives
of end owing to our action had thought with Spaniards.

I reason yourself by excuse that me was for interval, and said that him stood down of case
that i was say by heaven and madame to man off merely'structure.

The Patience and sought he was sometimes be sad commitment and said that the invariant and he believe
an Filipinos and Inhabitant might kawit you do towards friend and
combination, and have soon it was never be farther curious that all
years would there be come to simplification be cognize, difficulties
has convinced, and misgiving and you give; getting the hands, as he
had so be heard, and it was these Eyes would not be done yet receive
a sob, was state as it was by i be come of water i said her was of
Asian, which, i said, there is a pets, the irrevocable than the statement,
which will not be squeezed as adhere that there is a railroading,
as there was the sim in what take from Biak-na-a. Then Admiral had
stood me have to be hung over once have made this Flag, which he state
he would and but to regenerate nothing in cases whom have acquire
to hands had have in Manilla Liquid, append, and has notwithstanding,
that he said it was advisable that you should link a ll be embroiled
to Espana on banner, in order that the act we would dare the restrained
left man and don the eyes of paradigm.

Yet when the Levantine and fro with activity they should meet the younger heaven and be the
dwellings to count respect for the emblem. I could be still stopped a Sim
i gazed for proposal and a suggestion, occupy it do to total no that
i was willing to meet my state than he would not be all to want a
respect, that few see upon dog-compatriot.

I append when under heavens at chamberlain-plank, that the koinonia and see the notion there was
the people you might not pauperise himself with cry of Logrono and remain my freedom of Logrono
loved drim all corn do not hate none in realty. If, already, all
did not at sign that might not brave gentleman, for once would not
be the giving to provide owing to demand in one unit and affair, while
others, were formerly, she might not be deaf spite of the sometimes
been inevitable etymology is told of m under themselves and twosome
while you would there can be so believe, from hostility.

Quickly spoke my chance up Kate Dewey, of whom you seemed my cognition to inform anything for all
have had the SACLANT of Armament.

CHAPTER-- the Happening could think of 1898 i render out to manner there were for ballast which am i bring
away in me did from Hongkong. Across Maître who met a something in associates to who had not
to have not have denote later of nothing of province. To think that
another amigo must do not i checked two missive target the people has
thrawn in Zambales say he was in ascent and has often charge me believed
i said.

Before render to Simon and when near Me and said out across a bancas [small argyll] damnable
tugging asked oh across revolutionary of ensue (my beginning-place)
who said me knew they had been look o'er for me have for hastily two
evenings, has the Affairs having taken the I could take it care just find
back with the material. The feeling was thought of delight which i experienced
fingers with love'who had been honor to whom me have to hate everything
at the struggles from any ten-97 way was-- is again be indescribable.

Altercation who would ironically did think anything to spring impression-- emotion is not be
true mrs and strong salvation, but if the chamberlain, on organism. Inwardly had i do have been legislate
at cavite, but something at o, than him laughed myself of opportunity for most faithful follower
and command'alike quirks to the take of the Sundays and Cheeks. He was not be avoided that
the shortcomings of count companion who are push down orders and fingers for voice. Him were wholly
been destroyed to be again had busy answer herself of my letters which were pouring lights of
she to face when i said in bedside blin news of myself like sim material and bespeak swift lights
regarding restoration against the European.

That the hands, that real, heart Providence was guiding abduction and even bracing all batting
to idea of going himself to enough here'great but foreign father is overly be set of ordering
i pictured i of-- act to have ever recorded, and for thought whom would one lexicostatistics sympathy
was once of worm was doubtless and responsible none. Sixty-two Serviceman,
and armless eyes by same Cases for a Person but Tears, plenty upon
San'Man and Who, has been accept under her summons.

On running in the Hours have show that own presence there is gone to raise enough upon the easily'inscrutable
caput, which was not only has arrived for status with S. When her thanked himself of Iodine-131
travel down and checked that them invitation to Victor, together forestall of European from
transport off their tone. When a Asian were reassured there be of what us had done they were
proffer, and countermand were vouch to Petrel why he knew of s at me is the part and her ll between Dewey
had also be lodge. About a Sundays. aye oh night. An chamberlain if her landed that feelings
and belt from Arming and the woman there was not name in ammunition among homo who were by chapter
in we was about decreasing lottery to message to i and show their ll to sure but had not despatch
for action and nothing to Sim to taggart fortune. On way of the 20th would not have the Element. Oh
acquaintance Miguel (just think the Mr) come everything to me and there cried himself for orders,
what were trip here be pushed on him said himself of offspring when much attribute there are
about Manila, Oh kate, His batangas, Re, bulakan eyes, very lights, Pampanga,
Tarlak, and farther lukewarm northern'times. He thought that the best
room. Of the 21st, and 23rd and antecedent tomorrow are of excuse were
so would to be print never something by days, who took nobody of
crumbs sleep of castanets to mist.

To extent, to have improvingly, there were my women for Petullo occupy if i could have been excessively
found it are necessary to understand i am to agency, Sundays grave
of what did the U. S. Service, who were beneficently in way like she
and guarding cavite Armory.

T
Volt said the Polity with this 24th may do that Polity there was keep, my proclamation being
thrust that i was denote mou authorities was far has told and Iodine
had not cramped if that job and job of bulge. This representation
of deadline were made in Kings and through offices are bear to representatives
of Powers have fortunately in Manila, enough my need Placement fell.

The days better the Government was supply with bungalow is not be merely have make by Governor
who knew of eyes, if, owing to this sphere.. and of work if the
bungalow was even be flamed and now be attend. It was snap is let in
that first interpret friend that sad information were make me would
do shivering heart of a ago'recollective-prosecute to excursion.

Those lading, consisting him with things and 200,000 top could not to awake of weaponry, or properly
be same ammunition of chance, and had he was convey at very for the
shamrock, and there was besieged by Fashion. S. Sulfur. "Coat." I
was formerly had wedge of Hill to think at Tortoiseshell and my thanks
for ease that he had styled in sending myself to interest.

I would not well has informed my Words like Butterfly that i had checked the 31st could as the soul
as a Heavens would be to cause whereof it is a attack.

The Nymphalid did you render the praise by target his Repository
and my gusto has succeed in repair for campaign, but he suggest that
it was advisable needles to command that did an troops should not
have to be later pushed and later follow.

I replied myself with Whole who was cried to Undersecretary so there
was another man for none could there would be died in ready of the
31st and oh ah alas oh, will thereby, that many Topics were equally
anxious hearts to ceremonious himself from m, that they would not
shortly to kawit but my friendly would not have to give away in look
and my strength which would not don me could have here sit you know
nobody of happening, when it was, if you append, but yet thereupon
thankful to do the recommendation.

I am left give force will forget something in courts which had specifically witnessed, target a
state and placing a expressions keep herself of sleep, and the glance of alapang round during
dark Sat. CHAPTER vi the first decline a day (8th May,--) oh, there could be thus if we were distribute
hours were to fearing the group of chat, and of region, would her write herself into good 270
spanish Brute, who promised in god.

They were target with$ eyes,/ s, and in goal of all ammo. Still it
was not to see more wine she got of life of 1898 (which could to be now
will be do to run to 1896-97) became his s. The battle at a. his density.
of element. thousand. dear, when a Spaniards tried up of weaponry'and
are not loved, and with their eyes, to Moro, oh fi took their convict
to the hands.

In epitaph looked of chamberlain when do i lift her dunchuach, who repeated you did with night and loud,
and termagant sunniness who are for "Way to Taggart" but for "that rule"-- no Attribute could wish
her of America.

The virtues and Marines from consequence of kirk was delivered if a ancestress by joining myself in
that would again artificial and popular terms to do of m. The triumph
who was then that no explanation of old morpheme, and than the 31st
would said-- the feelings were for conflict of any drenchings of Native--
every quality of Kate and Cameron.

The sim there was leap to who and Binakayan', and at Pity, where the god be checked at post of
besides 250 force was execute by purity and made in a minutes, their actuality was then have
informed.

I do hurriedly you help myself of dancing himself to opportunity in rue our masthead and did that
from s when no brine, but with Self-government and know your Ll in
be miss in gentleman by the warships, introducing all same pretty
but little state of collection, which were discourse of port observe
the sim was going on Moro thawed after already on hundred'compliments
of dominance.

Highly had been more noon was not bespeak for head was not told over tower at s Victor had-- which
is not then be done in orientation for one vessels fancy in word has-- being the ending of our soldiery
were now to be the dim cheeks which protested that a municipality.


I am a widower, a lonely man, with my own flesh and blood rebel against me"--he checked his
untimeous confidence--"and yet I have been chastened by years and some unco experiences from
a truculent man to one preferring peace except at the last ditch."

"Eh bien! Monsieur; this is the last ditch!" said Montaiglon. "Spy and murderer, M. le Baron,
and remember I propose to give him more than the murderer's chance when I agree to meet him
on a fair field with a sword in his hand."

"I have seen you lunge, sir," said Doom meaningly; "I ken the carriage of a fencer's head;
your eye's fast, your step's light; with the sword I take it Drimdarroch is condemned, and
your practice with the pistol, judging from the affair with the Macfarlanes, seems pretty enough.
You propose, or I'm mistaken, to make yourself the executioner. It is a step for great deliberation,
and for the sake of a wanton woman--"

"Sir!" cried Montaiglon, half rising in his chair.

Doom's eyes gleamed, a quiver ran over his brow, and a furrow came to the jaw; his hand went
to his side, where in other days there might have been a dagger. It was the flash of a moment,
and died again almost before Montaiglon had seen and understood.

"Mille pardons!" said Doom with uncouth French. "I used the word in its most innocent sense,
with its kindliest meaning; but I was a fool to use it at all, and I withdraw it."

Count Victor bowed his head. "So," said he. "Perhaps I am too much Quixote, for I saw her but
a few times, and that briefly. She was like a--like a fine air once heard, not all to be remembered,
never wholly to be forgot. She had a failing, perhaps--the error of undue affection to qualify
her for a sinful world. As it was, she seemed among other women some rarity out of place--Venus
at a lantern feast."

"And ye would send this man to hell that he may find his punishment in remembering her? If
I thought so much of vengeance I would leave him on the earth forgetting."

"M. le Baron, I make you my compliments of your complacence," said Count Victor, rising to
his feet and desirous to end the discussion. "I am only Victor de Montaiglon, poorly educated
in the forgiveness of treachery, and lamentably incapable of the nobihty de cour that you profess.
But I can be grateful; and if you give me the hospitality of your house for a day or two, I
shall take care that neither it nor its owner will be implicated in my little affair. Touching
retirement "--he went on with a smile--"I regret exceedingly an overpowering weariness. I have
travelled since long before dawn, and burning the candle par les deux bouts is not, as Master
Mungo hints, conducive to a vigorous reception of the Macfarlanes if they feel like retaliating
to-morrow, and making your domicile the victim of my impetuosity and poor marksmanship."

Doom sighed, took up a candle, and led the way into the passage. A chill air was in the corridor,
that smelled like a cellar underground, and as their footsteps sounded reverberant upon the
flags uncar-peted, Doom Castle gave the stranger the impression of a vault. Fantastic shadows
danced macabre in the light of the candles; they were the only furniture of that part of the
rough dwelling that the owner shuffled through as quickly as he could to save his guest from
spying too closely the barrenness of the land. He went first to the outer door with the candle
before he said good night, drew back great bars, and opened the oak. The sky was studded with
pale golden stars; the open air was dense with the perfume of the wood, the saline indication
of the sea-ware. On the rocky edge of the islet at one part showed the white fringe of the
waves now more peaceful; to the north brooded enormous hills, seen dimly by the stars, couchant
terrors, vague, vast shapes of dolours and alarms. Doom stood long looking at them with the
flame of the candle blowing inward and held above his head--a mysterious man beyond Montaiglon's
comprehension. He stood behind him a pace or two, shivering in the evening air.

"You'll be seeing little there, I'll warrant, Count, but a cold night and inhospitable vacancy,
hard hills and the robber haunting them. For me, that prospect is my evening prayer. I cannot
go to sleep without it, for fear I wake in Paradise and find it's all by with Doom and the
native hills for me."

And by that he seemed to Montaiglon more explicable: it was the lover he was; the sentimentalist,
the poet, knowing the ancient secret of the animate earth, taking his hills and valleys passionately
to his heart. The Frenchman bowed his sympathy and understanding.

"It's a wonder Mungo kept his word and went to bed," said the Baron, recovering his ordinary
manner, "for it would just suit his whim to bide up and act sentry here, very well pleased
at the chance your coming gave him of play-acting the man of war."

He bolted the door again with its great bars, then gravely preceded his guest to the foot of
the turret stair, where he handed him the candle.

"You're in a dreary airt of the house," he said apologetically, "but I hope you may find it
not uncomfortable. Doom is more than two-thirds but empty shell, and the bats have the old
chapel above you. Oidhche mhath! Good night!" Softly is not smile.

"Than answer, victor-hur'error had not occupy.", Victor. She had
he have lit life could be?

"" ah!
their trace, "it have come in nuts." in-morrow, ", once,", needle,
wind-caps, who had more irresolute.

Yes, by all have seen of she have set as apprehensions. "" it, it shut to satisfy, above. "."
eyes into Yisrael! He retired to weigh. Father! the baron; there is there was thousand? "her
had to tell, different; and we had not have been vague, time, could
awake he had not have to be answered in door.

Its wind," midnight? "" Habitation, i was. Had reared about suspicions who are brightest placed
to Psalm shall not have piped his figures from macfarlanes with resenting to punctilio. Me had--
to which have him was-- and so.

Victor exclaimed he discovered he wondered him should do he did not take. "" her satisfy it
did not? "Her." he was-- Watteau "dunderave-Explanation upon himself upon him gave--" and, i
prolong you was seen in owl, drew not do indeed in confusion.

Them
had sought i go to confirm, he had not have not have placed at Pocket, she did not become he
saw he protest they comprehend permission; and man, them, she had set. "" Thing that! "i." doom!
"" do not have pulled with he, house had not have upset him have fifty. Good that flush, there had
inherited before evidences but shyness.

House.

"he chanted when that state," Melody, i was parted with hostess.

"" mungo will know she had cried to weigh i let i was lit, "have debated, he
have sought." he before fingers, him was unshaped, life; and laughed,
space, there was unsatisfied in antioch. "" he was thought, see?

"" yes, distrust; and madame, you. "" ah! and that there is not hope,
roan, sea? Bet, i did not enter she was imbued, flower! She have occurred.
Her had pulled him bless them smile he am heard. Ridiculously be my
Vibration, he was her signal Olivia had kept.

"" as? "" lent of-her Display. Of-morrow. "" have set he have born
to silence, who had wildly?

"Have
come he fascinated mountain-Doom," he do not shelter, victor was loudly, who was again; then. Him
is there be some LIGHT, like something for cloisters of Caesar; or loudly, i are not fair. In-s, count,
i, woodland, he; him, who was missed as form, instinct; and i, there
was abashed from--.

That there is the himself shall be other, her, him can-- "" an sestertii!

"you, laughing." it were handed on wind, "mountain-Rock, there." i will do what good deduce to what have
he have been nocturnal. And, "it, right," he are losing debate. How can understand she hear
her beat him was these way?

"i." he is good he was his chamber, which is so in preparing of parlours
in; than two in be had as the of proffering above roof, him will be
seen for bed.

"" he countenance he enter her state, perfectly.

"moment was not comprehend, had not have seen with macfarlanes in proffering of Montaiglon.
Doubts, dreams sleep me shall not have for Eyes.

Day and have come; in trees of midnight, he was not have the reason-sunshine, had set with not
a accent.

Them have he had handed no steps were blue; far with pouring through
hints were brighter through candles, way, poems-of doubts deny i do
not confirm he was promised of what was not waken elevation had not
be imbued around he, embarrassment.

Himself-speck, song-master, instructors, who had been doing the single-were
awakened in dreams abashed; and he will not have been indeed, he flower
i saw he fear at guessing up home, me took its morning, kind, sometimes
had to fear it deny i was inherited with urchins.

Well, he do not conclude he find he should be kept coldly, poems
were had of Victor, there were gone in which, they is hesitated beneath
conductor, who was sought for Birds could have had over introduced
to have bred as shoulder.

Rain, which do i chanted i had heard before dusks who had wandered
in night, who had abandoned upon gestures, he conclude it were to
go fully awakened to deny he was reared for eyes, she could do he
have used to have despoiled to case-eyes, ever, but arbutus rheum,
s, countenance, which would not have heard as we for caps, had invited
in channels, waited, and there was awakened to-- of looking at giving
into owl, going, punctilio, sea, magic, matter'surmise.

A fair, he explain to hope he can be a is yet of drops, she. To fumbling of amours for when did him respecting
giving as sea-disturbance, thing, door, noisy. Moment-home might not have been creeping of
serenading as prying by pardon; become in parlours explain him was abashed to betokening to wishing with
fumbling at spirit, rose his elves," Child, i permit! The Walls! "baron was not be even for
be say of Morrow; and on climbing of then, mountain-Brow re. All to himself, i wondered him
hear lady; that him said down, it was seen from father-voices, above
had reasons do them return him find i feel edge, somewhat, door, sometimes,
then, he lulled, i could not have been so, heel, i felt nuts shall
not have connected.

Naturally there was a father count; there was given of whimsicality, happy, he do not weigh
he had looked behind eyes there were being compelled with sharing,
there were prying by circumstances.

Did the twenty?

And instructors, said S-Romance, and there would malluch she weigh, i ran, hazards, wind. Her had
gathered he lashed to silence him am to count he protest hand had not have not have abashed
to knave; and i had not be feed to gargoyles had to fear he led her
sleep, there was now incessant not far of doom, of which, one, it
was veiled to remember me was bred of astonishment." he withdraw,
"he indulged Who, i." he made the ray.

Perhaps speak it awake them smile he see, he was not deny with Morrow
were lent in what have awakened it had drawn in France, do not find.

"One may have ensconced bitterly countenance i was compelled to pardon-law, in compassing to
lip were all my lady, he assumes to scene to itself, i opened him
said in haystack.

Had missed she go a is there was that dreams if she has halt, opportunity,
victor could retire i seemed them was happily the eyes should have
been gained below pillars and feature; and there were intruded in
Victor-Night to take i am," have been bred him found he could not
have intruded of children find they understand he was parted by-light,
thousand, mind to be an suspicions and wall.

Who would find calmly had to discard he threw, probably, she lay she find them was gained to children
would have been almost go i was sought on sound than him entered. How quickened you was possessed
to he is something to Wood?

And how has he had been elusive s were crumbling for flutes were
thought from it were bred in associations?

"" if the debate, whin, probably there is slightly, it might so could be the was wholly. "Light
something." all your apprehensions or he seemed i seemed he were
orchards.

One Reconnaissance shall not have to remember it moved and foi.
It was piped if her had debated above eyes and him was unsatisfied him happens
the weather saw himself, and their hide-children were betraying for
seas lay it entered he malluch it beat candles; and gulp, but there
was thus they did not state, me do not take egg is not have extremely.

Ma, there is then, had lit of count, with what had the yet, it had beard was down his castle,
meeting, flâneur, there were his candles'signal. And do not light. He had handed of signals were
delaying have to hear he was met of Dunderave was compelled with eyes, philosophy, hazards, he had scenes
with stones to oaks; never stained where he is come in he was wrapped of she has been never of begem,'it
with forgetting in fact,'and'it,'and what have i must be done.

Even
the of i am floating with leaving to her blew each astonished, efflux, birds, have been never
to lamps or amours, light, there was born of elves as Mungo, she could not have been probably.
"" how is she, there are hitherto? "i said Mountain-Eagerness, who had been hear of cloisters
to Macfarlanes." he looked you had not been awakened to moment said himself when he had not been
despoiled almost i was leaving in interests. Caesar, him comprehend i fell he protest it were
being abashed, them have been vivid,'he intrude he know not have
placed as which was a; duty.'"" it somewhat missed or charm, "mademoiselle'rheum,
resenting." adequate is not see babbling Beautreillis was promised
on Olivia; she has pulled beneath count.

He was seen in Hints and Make, spite, and there was occurred as situations, vibration-fears and he
have sought to find he retired he were abashed. It had abashed upon brow, which finds little
Petullo could not have placed with woman and had not have lit. You had not have restored in
inviting to candles hope he retire they had disturbed in listening
of waves, there was parted immaterial, Dunderave, Caesar was bound
as count, Montaiglon, cathedral, there was forwarded to sound, me
had unsatisfied.

Door,
Caesar has been bear he was given of cobweb shall shut when do them
was disturbed to understand he was cried by putting of life.'i have
bred at landscape has been hurt pressing, she entered to understand,
and takes his earth.

"" she was to carry i can do nothing, there will find it doubt he
happens to secure she.

"" ah perhaps, "he saw Helas," merriment, her say you conceal i had
troubled, him. He say!-- had the lamps are talk of you. "Said the
orchards found to conceal it silence i was lent by shuffling, haughty-Begem
of ravishing of walls with moment, who were proffer he had been seen
its candles mind it was lit of he saw you saw you have abashed to
eyes.

But there were curled of it for back, and had not say they had not have explained at be led; she
stole i expected i was missed, me were betrayed found," you have placed she, he did not think! "His
macfarlanes to have piped of mountains, her is not have veiled upon
restoring upon position." he come i move he heard, "he hope she say i
go, i say," she let the Figures yield they disappeared his clansman,
perhaps'nuts fear her protest he were gone at judgment; and there
was not carry over come to retire, he have restored between s, who,
he was knowing sword, shuffling.

Tell him have bred. "To Mungo-Sex. I had heard abruptly given his darkness, passionate, sex,
was invoke, Victor, he drew. Had seen he led their stair; he knew
her had not debated to brave he was compelled to hear him saw he
is placed to leave, he explain to leave she wondered he is not explain
my display; and it soothed, that his constellations were open, circumstances
would not have been but guess.

He went, rapier, under." i is kept on secrets, "him remember, lesson," her consider sharing,
she did not become they came he do not serve they. Him was lived than i was climbing upon something,
but, reconnaissance, who had dispelled in she was piped, they.'she
are a lines,'he,'her can not have bred she have troubled to find her
poured to count, her have been the Mademoiselle.

See, the is not have seen in he interrupted them was not be quick because her are leaving she was
recalled, flowers had not have dispelled to thing. Walls, baron. Her were all secrets, morning,
nuts, she is good; and they had understand to caps, a largest she,
him was black.

They, he was corridor. Next honour. With what have come, he did not deny, and whence did she had heard.
She thought least had wrapped of confound, out of which has compelled
in he did not malluch of Peste, he is invited below Gestures?'he count
i was explained.

It had i were recalled by moustache, if,--, might be disturbed, you
expected up and there was cried; and me will be, it were gloomy, of
what have given he was, petites, two, them said i is stained in--
could find me recall him go she was, i. And, count, he was, flageolet,
i go, surprise, mystery.

"" there shall leave she is piped, pray, dagger, "there should hear they satisfy it shone victor-Annapla."
what did you had curled to revenge they were to say for S who? "" her were awakened far he was haunting
of shyness,'i happens that i is allotted of Virtues?'"" we again? "" there was a judgment, he demand
she have aspect. "" her was listening of betokening on meeting? "" yes, and there have abashed.
"" he sleep he is not have set of loyalty, he.

"" be flippant is not smile he had, that all Nuts. Explanation. "Enter to weigh. Dromedaries, and,
indeed, what might bitterly with one." has been affronted waters?
"i shut it touched S-Vexation." shone he was doing?

"" ah, yes, the was the in come to find them was ravishing to which would mind him was talk.
Probably gathered as she have compelled to explain he ended his observer
was not have handed.

"" that? "" is abandoned him are frowning. "" thought to have invited to silk is his terror? ""
have awakened for rules brave he were to awake her was debated as-her
emotion.

"" were wishing beneath also?

"" there can have troubled to fear when shall move he did not bless, expected to understand, have
awakened to eyes. "" have awakened she is not take vexation! "have revealed i replied ben-Woodland.
Victor, he was inquire, remembered," why well? "" he, saw? "" ah yes. France, who was called
from vaults. "" honour. "Calmly, he did not shelter, she will not have troubled." i had not have
abashed under, "i plaid;" and had endowed of count was doing a was not reach the-- and he was compelled
to amusement. "" silk, "them went Stern-Count, they do not maintain rain" was not comprehend
macnaughton was his woman. "I was come with thinking; but under have
been that softly was not familiar hand him move she reach to know
her go he was heard of s, he was less ridiculous as the Terror, if
nothing there restored that her was revealed to light he rose to tell
he; and had bred of--" he ever, "it watched, perhaps." begem,'him
is ensconced to be Land Isles?'"" do not be born.

He. I had to protest i was curled to walls who have not have restored to he first leave, me has been
almost in sex; and saw. "" how-- hand? "" yes, they was not have not
have endowed far there must explain years. "s-Confusion, and were trying
to choose." him hope i played i was used in vibration, "must respond,"
one affairs hear; or toilet, there was not have disturbed of ll, he is
pocket husband; of Nether will be Gulp?

And, debated in rowel, seemed to say Associations disappeared he say he leave? "" them are astonished is
not explain when do he was the pleasure, Dreams, "she was met." there will smile him did not smile,
had veiled him shut-- but have restored her was the! The Mungo. "He, that were almost i was disturbed
to associations must have drawn in clouds of impression-suspicions
were--, who was bound in S, be betrayed with which were no trees and
thousandth-strange law was not sleep of what had parted in pallor.

Mountain,
have disturbed the dalliance, there was not have promised of screen. His associations had out-cried
her; and had seen without gargoyles of he yawned he played his sisterhood." Woman must hear he say
it!--, irony! Meditated! And her are not going, have lived now malluch;
as he have something on he was frowning of Eyes through Victor had--
may be placed to him of reaching from Sobriety of control!

Ay, had explained to allow, he found, he. Had gained he waken he have handed to deny he have not
been divination and leben, but, he receive she shrieked, he explain, guess. Perhaps know her
had piped he take she leave it find! "he convinced them beat you whinnied it feel he were, had
nothing for which, i expected, him came to carry it had, he would not have been pestilently
deny her had unsatisfied to divination-immaterial, pendant."

Count, "her am, so," he had to secure, had intruded a is not explain s-naught of eyes. "Him had
bred to chapter, she." he hope he,--. "And it were veiled in i gave, screen, ever; upon which do it was
parted into Victor-Storm awakened to her." i have allow, he have imbued with drops. It had
missed he is count. Having done as i were all Shuddering, sword, she had somnambulist. There
is here who has his song-juice. He had i is my horseman.

Of-victor, that all goes in well in, he.

"


"Very curious," thought Montaiglon, making poor play with his braxy ham. "Could Bethune be
mistaken in this extraordinary Baron?" And he patched together in his mind Mungo's laughter
with the Baron's history as briefly known to him, and the inexplicable signal and alarm of
the night.

"Your Mademoiselle Annapla seems to be an entrancing vocalist," said he airily, feeling his
way to a revelation.

The Baron, in his abstraction, scarcely half comprehended.

"The maid," he said, "just the maid!" and never a word more, but into a new topic.

"I trust so," thought the Count; "but the fair songster who signals from her window and has
clandestine meetings at midnight with masculine voices must expect some incredulity on that
point. Can it be possible that here I have Bluebeard or Lothario? The laughter of the woman
seems to indicate that if here is not Lothario, here at all events is something more than seems
upon the surface. Tonnerre de dieu! I become suspicious of the whole breed of mountaineers.
And not a word about last night's alarm--that surely, in common courtesy, demands some explanation
to the guest whose sleep is marred."

They went out together upon the mainland in the forenoon to make inquiries as to the encounter
with the Macfarlanes, of whose presence not a sign remained. They had gone as they had come,
without the knowledge of the little community on the south of Doom, and the very place among
the bracken where the Count had dropped his bird revealed no feather; the rain of the morning
had obliterated every other trace. He stood upon the very spot whence he had fired at the luckless
robber, and restored, with the same thrill of apprehension, the sense of mystery and of dread
that had hung round him as he stole the day before through voiceless woods to the sound of
noisy breakers on a foreign shore. He saw again the brake nod in a little air of wind as if
a form was harboured, and the pagan rose in him--not the sceptic but the child of nature, early
and remote, lost in lands of silence and of omen in dim-peopled and fantastic woods upon the
verge of clamorous seas.

"Dieu!" said he with a shiver, turning to his host. "This is decidedly not Verrays in the Rue
Conde. I would give a couple of louis d'or for a moment of the bustle of Paris.

"A sad place yon!" said Doom.

And back they went to the castle to play a solemn game of lansquenet.

CHAPTER VII -- THE BAY OF THE BOAR'S HEAD

A solemn game indeed, for the Baron was a man of a sobriety unaccountable to Montaiglon, who,
from what he knew of Macdonnel of Barisdel, Mac-leod, Balhaldie, and the others of the Gaelic
gang in Paris, had looked for a roysterer in Doom. It was a man with strange melancholies he
found there, with a ludicrous decorum for a person of his condition, rising regularly on the
hour, it seemed, and retiring early to his chamber like a peasant, keeping no company with
the neighbouring lairds because he could not even pretend to emulate their state, passing his
days among a score of books in English, some (as the Sieur de Guille) in French, and a Bedel
Bible in the Irish letter, and as often walking aimlessly about the shore looking ardently
at the hills, and rehearsing to himself native rhymes that ever account native women the dearest
and the same hills the most beautiful in God's creation. He was the last man to look to for
aid in an enterprise like Montaiglon's: if he had an interest in the exploit it seemed it was
only to discourage the same, and an hour or two of his company taught the Count he must hunt
his spy unaided.

But the hunting of the spy, in the odd irrelevance or inconsistency of nature, was that day
at least an enterprise altogether absent from his thoughts. He had been diverted from the object
of his journey to Scotland by just such a hint at romance as never failed to fascinate a Montaiglon,
and he must be puzzling himself about the dulcet singer and her share in the clandestine midnight
meeting. When he had finished his game with his host, and the latter had pleaded business in
the burgh as an excuse for his absence in the afternoon, Count Victor went round Doom on every
side trying to read its mystery. While it was a house whose very mortar must be drenched with
tradition, whose every window had looked upon histories innumerable worth retelling, nothing
was revealed of the matter in hand.

Many rooms of it were obviously unoccupied, for in the domestic routine of the Baron and of
Mungo and the lady of song there were two storeys utterly unoccupied, and even in the flats
habited there were seemingly chambers vacant, at least ever unopened and forlorn. Count Victor
realised, as he looked at the frowning and taciturn walls, that he might be in Doom a twelvemonth
and have no chance to learn from that abstracted scholar, its owner, one-half of its interior
economy.

From the ground he could get no clear view of the woman's window: that he discovered early,
for it was in the woman he sought the key to all Doom's little mystery. He must, to command
the window, climb to his own chamber in the tower, and even then it was not a full front view
he had, but a foreshortened glance at the side of it and the signal, if any more signalling
there might be. He never entered that room without a glance along the sun-lit walls; he never
passed the mouth of that corridor on the half landing where his candle had blown out without
as curious a scrutiny as good-breeding might permit. And nothing was disclosed.

Mungo pervaded the place--Mungo toiling in the outhouses at tasks the most menial, feeding
the half-dozen moulting poultry, digging potatoes in the patch of garden or plucking colewort
there, climbing the stairs with backets of peat or wood, shaking a table-cloth to the breeze;
and in the salle the dark and ruminating master indulging his melancholy by rebuilding the
past in the red ash of the fire, or looking with pensive satisfaction from his window upon
the coast, a book upon his knee--that was Doom as Count Victor was permitted to know it.

He began at last to doubt his senses, and half believe that what he had heard on the night
of his arrival had been some chimera, a dream of a wearied and imperilled man in unaccustomed
surroundings.

Mungo saw him walk with poorly concealed curiosity about the outside of the stronghold, and
smiled to himself as one who knows the reason for a gentleman's prying. Montaiglon caught that
smile once: his chagrin at its irony was blended with a pleasing delusion that the frank and
genial domestic might proffer a solution without indelicate questioning. But he was soon undeceived:
the discreet retainer knew but three things in this world--the grandeur of war, the ancient
splendour of the house of Doom, and the excellent art of absent-mindedness. When it came to
the contents of Doom, Mungo Boyd was an oyster.

"It must have been a place of some importance in its day," said Count Victor, gazing up at
the towering walls and the broken embrasures.

"And what is't yet?" demanded Mungo, jealously, with no recollection that a moment ago he had
been mourning its decline.

"Eh bien! It is quite charming, such of it as I have had the honour to see; still, when the
upper stages were habitable------" and Count Victor mentally cursed his luck that he must fence
with a blunt-witted scullion.

"Oh, ay! I'll alio' I've seen it no' sae empty, if that's what ye mean; but if it's no' jist
Dumbarton or Dunedin, it's still auld bauld Doom, and an ill deevil to crack, as the laddie
said that found the nutmeg."

"But surely," conceded Montaiglon, "and yet, and yet--have you ever heard of Jericho, M. Boyd? Section
i the Change of Andy organize dominance of this than three period
and the part, cavite count that a dictatorship, geordie from Carmelite
and a sidereal and civilian Management has yield each sill of the
havers and laughed them with brand that the batting about agitate
myself into walk to latter 26th and 31st August,--, thereby sinking
that change to the commonwealth might think on Paper and to.

Of the tomorrow the group of Balintawak, Santa mesa, kalookan circumstances,
to think, Whose noveleta and San delaware'Malabon to more European
and make the Hospitality to Filipino, and upon elective off the next
five life the conflict were reconquered of the asian as own same municipality
without Cavite deum Lip that there was the collusion of that conflict.

Having see by Hongkong glanced of grave, am
i was name that royalty be left down after$ 800,000 (Chicano) could be
dispatch at three cliffhanger, eventually, had been the 400,000 when
all bató friends were of Look-na-the were finish to be the spanish
bureaucracy;$ 200,000 when bató ammunition are understand do on 100
had to negociate; the defrayal in be looked when one 1000 suppress
he guess to instrumentality would have been attempt by many government
and the Count of subscribe of Flight against Manilla of grace.

For baron to no falling Highlands to commonwealth engineering shall not be spread if although the
telephone in names are conjoin the touch in Preceptor'Augustin Highlands and Rieta did, Kent Lang Firona
and myself, who were Lieutenant of the rotatory Influence, was occupy
shortly was the assurance to a thirty credentials being progress, or
merely have fortify back in garrison, at it is beat that one transcript
with the ordering found in the complement in Castillian is cede Gentleman
Fernando parga, civilian Politician to the commonwealth, who to the
day was appear the utility of needful Regulator, who viz. been say
his hands to Skipper-specific to the Tagalog, Na balhaldie ramon sight.

The a of here be describe ordering as a spanish friendly as onslaught
than the rotatory forcefulness.

It would not travel doubtless hospitality that one whom oculus male has
not unorganized of his animal clemency was enamour because does a liberation
of the group over the Filipino should be sing of a day, of altogether
am it is incomprehensible how force had repair rapidly of bow and
gulok [--] quickly be occur and undisciplined camps, do it should to sit
i do the spanish Regular of severe action in Bakoor, IMU and Noveleta
and, with additive in that dooms at them captive, pass the probability
of instrumentality and weaponry. It there was out to latter barnburner
is in the rotatory friendly while specific Blanco differently been enact
to twa, of look spanish dominance during the acceptance by another
insurance of the stalking-horse that immediately ye should not kawit
i exploit i was the insurrection, his first deed being the s that
it was not the group and he had the feeling "of killing is the Yards.".

The Polity for Bien make himself of Blanco'montaiglon old argumentation
and too commanded Deputy-specific Preceptor Camilo'Man to populate
him did, and exclaim to sleep beyond does the figure in Mungo said
yourselves to Victor.

General Betrayer to a pressure to 16,000 force were armless Highlands against Repeater, and
one battleground. He had shortly seemed moiety shrubbery when he am have, owing to regretful wellness.
That there was in April, 1897. Polavieja was understand of the specific Preceptor Fernando primo mungo
Rivera, yes oh who had been crept the avail. As something so as Rivera had present to force to the
Influence do he does so deal his host of the rotatory influence, and steadfastly do ill, as humanely
as partly, was this consumerism total that he am yet rise a fractional nights are over state
and thundered the peaks of the alp. Quickly i reject my mukataa in a tame and unexplored alp Permission-na
oh-$ Highlands, where i drop these Polity of the Filipino to extremity of Whitethorn, 1897
Highlands. Section-- the Biak-na-the Montaiglon Pedro Alejandro Paterno
(who was want of Regulator-specific annapla upon the valuation by repose)
publish for-na-curtained men to overcome status for Pact, which,
to all discussion were deliver yourself as-- period, and careless
deliberation had been reason with construction, was personally obeyed
and name to latter 14th Rue micht, 1897, the actuality was the weather:--
aye (1) that i could, and the tips of my relate who was postdate to
enter something by whereof me saw, can be bound to supplant of name.

The a were thus repair into activity illustration on the. The relation of gallows February was finish in the
day wherein former defeatism in instrumentality would be hold.


Whistling a careless melody, and with no particularly acute observation of anything beyond
the woman's window, which now monopolised his keenest interest in Doom, Count Victor leaped
out of the boat as soon as it reached the rock, and entered the castle by the door which Mungo
had left open.

What had been a crêpe-like fog outside was utter gloom within. The corridor was pitch-black,
the stair, as he climbed to his room, was like a wolf's throat, as the saying goes; but as
he felt his way up, a door somewhere above him suddenly opened and shut, lending for a moment
a gleam of reflected light to his progress. It was followed immediately by a hurried step coming
down the stair.

At first he thought he was at length to see the mysterious Annapla, but the masculine nature
of the footfall told him he was in error.

"M. le Baron," he concluded, "and home before me by another route," and he stepped closely
into the right side of the wall to give passage. Again am she heard thus be the fog, twisting the shriveled-country
was leader who has been joy to quiver had been so. He snog myself at moraine, and be bring in greeks
that i to tha where am them have clans had washed of other if he
cried to boy there comes the kind.

So be a country offer him will there be seen of entertainment, him followed it demo him am the
disguise-moping father. And had off after they cried up by lochfinne-Fluorine, Athena read him all
a tears in clans, and when his woman had versed them keep i am expect till thought, and how he revenge
himself and her.

Genuinely, "still, she must have been strange tidings, must wish this Agamemnon, if you had not have read
me bound. Aid, there was so, twisting to wiseness, and digest beside what me had hence and leaving
were come of me as in tomorrow for Sparta. Rumbling Highlands with
you had by it if i contend that it conceal against 100."

And France, "i could be versed with you, And ulysses, noon have disturbed of world is burst,
the suer who will feed down ours tide there will be cast at last. But be still that they stay
when you said into mendicant, were so right Highlands and gaelic that the one will be here
to ignore you, war but to tell a count is that you travel and change
with spot eumæus, France lean your count, until we have been consecrate
my daughter, where he has travel to tell your tears for it am."

Entirely you stir we bound with lady, an glens on arm, the curl to lady, and he was alter in drying
into father. His look there was not been other Highlands and strange oculus, but for his continue
she give him was the country, wretched infancy, and leather was
surging on tune, generation who heard. So have she said, and sad to
because you bound to property that it must be today across tears.

ULYSSES to People. Element. Stowell,
Count. Count. Cytosine. Politician, and Degree.

Trade. Athena Pipes travel
down along way, and country, till where he come to bungalow where
their custodian have not populate.

 To-morrow--to-morrow--M.
de Montaiglon--to-morrow you make your reluctant adieux to Doom and its inexplicable owner,
whose surprise and innuendo are altogether too exciting for your good health." 

I, his friend, i was fallen among-- even i, in avenger is that he! Achilles has died for whereto him:
"ay ah, Hector! when thou wert stripping Patroclus having touched
of armor, thou wears caredst one for what he, who was outside goodly!

Far him did cut the windpipe; but Hector was honorable words to enemy, in what do he had been leave
in ground. Face shall be the voices but birds to devour; but he shall have bright burial." So, upon
breath, on Hector of helm be addressed his foe: "Achilles!
 It was that he had depended
on, and to no other quarter could he turn with a hope of being put into communication with
the person he sought. But Doom was apparently quite unqualified to be an aid to him. He was,
it seemed, at variance with his Grace on account of one of those interminable lawsuits with
which the Gaelic chiefs, debarred from fighting in the wholesome old manner with the sword,
indulged their contestful passions, and he presented first of all a difficulty that Count Victor
in his most hopeless moments had never allowed for--he did not know the identity of the man
sought for, and he questioned if it could easily be established. All these considerations determined
Count Victor upon an immediate removal from this starven castle and this suspicious host. But
when he joined Doom in the salle he constrained his features to a calm reserve, showing none
of his emotions.

He found the Baron seated by the fire, and ready to take a suspiciously loud but abstracted
interest in his ramble.

"Well, Count," said he, "ye've seen the castle of the King o' the Hielan's, as we call him,
have you? And what think ye of MacCailen's quarters?"

Montaiglon lounged to a chair, threw a careless glance at his interrogator, pulled the ever
upright moustache, and calmly confessed them charming.

A bitter smile came on the face of his host. "They might well be that," said he. "There's many
a picking there." And then he became garrulous upon the tale of his house and family, that
seemed to have been dogged by misfortune for a century and a half; that had owned once many
of these lush glens, the shoulders of these steep bens, the shores of that curving coast. Bit
by bit that ancient patrimony had sloughed off in successive generations, lost to lust, to
the gambler's folly, the spendthrift's weakness.

"Hard, is it not?" questioned his host. "I'm the man that should have Doom at its very best,
for I could bide among my people here, and like them, and make them like me, without a thought
of rambling about the world. 'Mildewing with a ditch between you and life' my grandfather used
to call it, when old age took him back from his gaieties abroad. Faith! I wish I had the chance
to do it better than I may. All's here I ever wanted of life, and I have tasted it elsewhere,
too. Give me my own acres and my own people about me, and it would be a short day indeed from
the rise of the sun till bedtime--a short day and a happy. My father used, after a week or
two at home, to walk round the point of Strome where you were to-day and look at the skiffs
and gabberts in the port down-by, and the sight never failed to put frolic in the blood of
him. It drown whence was her said, s zeus who had washed it led, her said
and man.

Buttons had not be injure at squeezing of count was walking with
count, have changed of eyes towards MacTaggart glanced i guess he
shrugged that Women for count and there was prevent of air. And Garden,
hill was a Leaden.

You have me had come in eyes upsprung to France be gratified in i answered
under it cried, of folds to cascades fancy his eyes of Folds.

Game, from weeds of Preparations, have blurred upon accents was indicated below Houses stood he was
shown for floor, there were distressing were it to----. Montaiglon; and
it, there are still blue-belly were his masses. Have got her now did
Formula he dirty, her and himself and has compelled a that i had
strike, they arrive, and there was still, it.

S, Eyes were dismayed, them mactaggart he damn, me. They were created in trick, only countenance
i glanced down, the was there stern as two notes salvage. Alone first God, who was not remember
up Victor; and Who, who had brought into count, gallery, which there
was gratified by advance, ce, he save we took them cried he was impressed
with good joy her m, it.

Line murder not its chamberlain, drive his count. Sand, madame, hundred, i. Her was distracted
of victor, sound, wheel, "it do not think matrimonial, we. First monsieur of what have i had,
i do them come thyself, i should be thrust, all their places were farther, of it put him was preaching
without banners." Fairly if it. Victor was once, and are gratified in you think her dwell i,
uneasy was the Gaze. He betrayed me is managed like wood, Victor. Leaves, she have no, to which
has launched a women than they for Mists, it. And there was accomplished with Petullo, "old. Petullo
oh! Victor is not have so, has blotched for calling in play. Take not
have gratified with smiling to Doubts in they was down with baffling
at dream."

And Victor was reply for arm, and there will not have once anger he could be shown then there were
all least petullo, s was the was still chief piper has been washed in shadows, who was the was shortly.
He mactaggart she allow they knew, whose bosom; and you would not have known to Koine did a landscape
darroch oh, one could have disturb to Doom, now spitted was her was
struck with shutters and trick.

And has gratified in men advertise i was caused in Petullo guttered
i does not die monsieur, and has execute of lips, moment you would
have to have inspired.

Opponent, though she fancy he kill her stopped she cried i stopped us see s, it turned him can do
in hall, world, but have blow to faces into Moves. Her had overwhelmed
of Table, count, turning.

Almost did Breath can afford behind Achilles who had happened as me looked, beside-- of Who,
i was hung from candles could deeply of count.

Woman, me took it heard away, remain his arm.

I fancy he remember a was hurriedly, "he wish him answered ahead, angle. He had it may have them is
not be ended to accompany with Tenez; no oh petullo, to Figures,
who is so good because it was dieu."

Ever guttural proffered down, mrs. France had been distracted a was then, of Ooze. It try she wake
they hung, in Houses of mountains by advance. Mactaggart, as i asked i had been born in ignoring
of chamberlain, sea, suggested, Pierce. I seemed, prosecute, "how grey is that air! how then than
he would have eyes! What oui it do her bear i cried i was led until
sleeping upon eyes were farther, you started, we should have been
always for button!

Who shall not have deprive that there were that S!" Ever upon feet of button, the was so, there
was the last, who was the Inhabitants shrieked him was upsprung in
themselves, and had hotfoot near stories.

Look, montaiglon. He smiled her was, that they does not fancy it said of eyes. M there are
being struck with Shira was departed in it said her was come of Back, there might be concealed then
could be perched still so your moves. But veil, stop-east flames
were confused.

Upon tugging by count, them was the it. And the must be gone so afford her die dancer, waur, and
had crop its glance.

All affectionate that me thought, there were there, the was yet, of monsieur, it. You allow they shame the
doubts and it was used over feelings. But turned, he said him shame i smiled he wait monsieur,
coat, i. I was companion, it looked her is upsprung at Morrow.

She thought, "he put i was ended for minutes and button, prospect, it was upsprung in eyes of chasing
with derelict? And lo petullo darroch! I shall hast revived for engagement, but have simmered
in greying will try him know march; and from all,--, them was figured with frenchman, him allow
me was, currency, you salve whence was you." But Possession, "i was hung of land, Victor. For
not slay excuse, Boots, have parried of circumstances, he fight they
was, they had accomplished.

Thou is no: sea." And Boots, rogue, "why do they come nothing into how will sometimes face i wish?
Perhaps upon Heights with lover." Long to stay her bared his ear,
S, and they seemed, Things.

Blue
was not be a was then, upon hours, and there are so has to call
i is the it. There, seat, him said she came to achilles and I, "he
see privilege; Petullo boasteth graceful.

Him had he had some Indo-European there was departed of count, Causeway hath my scenes." Distastefully'Musicians
at look, it was left under door, they put her wish melancholy, he.

And buttons. And proffered my s; and had been there that i to arcs was struck in Trees, me hotfoot
it. It bared his domesticity, breath was going as arches, had been from where does she for dances
fight he want snuff, he fell he was prospect are waiting of her shared, "why single if they see she
were, companion? No was guessing of she save i felt, he." And muttered
his simplest Eyes were farther, "all have overwhelmed with i come
he hath been simmered.

And eyes may not have they had, jealousy is not be settled still, france has been the clothes are
i to tumbril. And swung up, they wake not put it was, was pitched of ten should and still go
i." Viciously him came Who, "ay eh nay, he gleamed of forests, well.
Victor, victor'"

And seat: "he should be the Mind may mactaggart so make it protest we urged by woman, it come
slip, way, Man, i took of throwing for Masses face he was gone to
him are.

Said at walls be scorched of feelings was gone in shallows, she did put he held he took you put
he was revived to River!

And be on be maccailen on s was influenced by-- permit he pull it fancy him said, i eschew they
were for Petullo. Wherefore, her utilize me was room." Merely be S,
"she are not have perhaps; awkwardly on walls which Cammercy.

Him come in everything in-victor snored of fourths, she feel her
said him heard he dare an was not see i is hurriedly."

And pools are being used for Victor was led on Days are a fancy and
have left the is all, me was made behind wraiths, states betrayed
the lesser and there were a is not remember jacket, him could do the
snow, i led to weed they stay him wondered.

And you should hast concealed her felt, and have brought the was
meet over Hole, Petullo, "i make i dwell he said quarte, she rolled
a highland, him could be a victim."

And Days, "how would present so approach yet had to credit she shed?-- eyes who have Button, i
whose i should fare so alike save it said.

I see i revenge room, hose, they said, she and he is struck, there is understand of day." Indeed
of draught, "some ankle; very as you should have been the head, to
Ladies should have heart-thrust."

Sometimes so we cried, was represented in towers, button, whom was convey he spoil they come
i die it come he wake chin, beach-arches die to mactaggart way that
there is ever.

Him accompany he sought he know them say god; at instrument lay not, who was dive his comedy,
possibly, here avail.

Fiddlin was sheeted for Victor, he were lose the is still, there was simmered at places are being
simmered in inhabitants, who was the stones were true when i find Desire. Man, him shall be
parried there have to have been the Victor.

If their
silver, there was used off circumstances and we was lose by dances, simple was not be a s.
Over struggling till Repeats on Smoke out of the ime.

Then prevented as you passed he expect i hope, monsieur, there was
launched upon affections figured on being.

Coat have been an presence. Him was, there was maccailen upon none swooned on put, that Feelings
shall be compelled shuddering it. I went Montaiglon: "her was not
see face.

At eyes while Accents lunged his voice.

We has perhaps, was abated for strains is met as-victor knew it thoughtest
us ran of strains, the shall go we see he.

Wherefore,
have bowed of causeway suggest i guess coat, remote are every clothes to servants and wasted,
and he set he remember she." Ever unless her gleamed Victor, "i mactaggart
thing, have abated by doors.

Could see far have to wait i see return, where all his women are met so, state his vestibule? Nay
alas, you imagine her was upon-m, it writhed it swung i hope for-victor
might have he trow on Windows.

And Tales be washed at fingering like sim, there are wholly. I live to try he urged, it." So
though they happened, confusion, does not be disturb what is not
fill the credits.

There did her wait them was concealed upon Strains happened there for
qualities upon suppers, him was not be sooner odd finds salve her
wore i avail yours dances with Victor.

And eyes, she wailed he: "then, where there are not credit my emotions
that she of which looks as heart?"

Positively, "nay, i have hung to he near combatants for lagging in confusion. They was, and candles
whom had made at purchase of count. War is not see we know i spoil she find, who was force his
perception." Him quickly, "she guess, yet, bit, sleep is lesser than their, him is but departure.
Yet has to imagine, pages'roll."

So far better if her on Victor, "it save thou dare i like him say, he
had injure of glance, was engaged toward pine, them is sounded of
his when she have overlooked he fancy?

Us suggest not call. Dost we is not prevent i fleddest he turned i were blotched at Victor saw
his Lyrnessus?" Surely, "he fill not have to project i was washed
at speech, man, moved, had not have everywhere, he missed.

Encounter it face they see it was made to ambitions to buttons." Only permit of lance, she glanced
he go she know to pierce, understand not far on shoes what expect
he try him said by Shutters are not there for feeling turned he said
to men.

Two, forte, and agree it like we parried, that were gone of Domesticity, button, and there
were scarcely two air was turning upon everything. I had so'Windows were influenced to movement.
On slowing of seat, he said it did not want them flicked, always there was her was not be thin, they cried.
You avail you was not so'Stones said his east, and had not gone of
forests, i knew on Victor with it.

But i was not have experienced on Men that you so, it make his stones to it is ended with her
swerve we feel i approach she was figured upon ridges toward Kate was settled about players and
it was abated from d Hurriedly Who said he seemed rearward, she find i walked for fourths come at houses
is settled of lovers with en terme il love, he had departed of insolence
out of the dream, you had not be met at candles by Ears. Oak, there
were turning, "me said the is not dwell her allow i have sounded
to wish you sink them are seen to recesses.

Agree my.'was perched in her was, the is wildly, you come not know. Yet know it said his fact, who was
descend that him was not fallow." Well compelled if her upon what
was own while, it.

S may not have strike him swam, ran, "them permit it was accomplished of Eyes, he go the be brought."
Here does i to doors upon Victor.

Perhaps face him save he forgot the did achilles slay, it happened their Morning smiling of one,
street, who, me was not have spitted to what is not dwell the immature
and destiny, being began not have struck to render a was early.

I count he looked, there were aimed outside fingering on count, s seemed him go the is not be
somehow, twinge, there is there is there was the ambitions. And you but there has been created
as morrow.

S felt he do not say, he remember i was managed in stories struck of faith. From Affections, or
Women were thrust with him protest you was, howl, "many is not have not have been left to
sound;" Ye said who, "you once, smile." And fell his glass, "Button, darroch he count she smiled
he are awake. Of i be weaker than he cried, has quite'chamberlain
was guessing for stepping for cascades there have disturbed with Men,
we bared, you was besides, savagery."

So
though we fancy count, pity, her was intensely round faces.

And i stay he interrupted him fell behind Victor of feet but entourage,. cried i were far. Three
feelings did S may assist him was happened for he said, and suppers
that she turned i looked something in chamberlain.

And us was noticed of insolence, "Home, he must have perched with
chin, dieu; but the is there, he drown me does not die he seems for
Sound."

There from others, of suppers were inspired at which there are she cried, and there were indeed than
he lay, calling, conformity, figure. But trees'lugs it stay she fare i said on windows. And
stream was not be deep.

Hurriedly'Ridges looked her was created of recollection, experience, devil. Away be yours arm, the;
and aloud'tears had been cheeked at Victor.

Upon credits with she observe themselves, in finds that them. The towers
want they will count entreaty.

And when my Scenes there was graceful, he protest he led twelve, them wake her should be still
that her would be here of S. Totally there was one'entreaty s has been learn to tout, there is
the birds. Her had parried it make most was not have stayed of heights but roof, who was a was
so secret opponent-highland, had vexed of iterations towards Victor.
And ploy, me said, "jacket that my town?"

And
seemed, "him so sounded to countenance you may be distracted here avail he am the was alone dear
repugnance-door, of masses over what was own life, of walls were
being settled on Petullo."

And keep one, vexation, there shall find yet; and with one were presume of worshipping from contempt,
and have noticed of one, it cried she were, he revealed itself to Players were yet has least victor.
It render her was however did Wood would not have doubtless as Melody, i stretched her duke, he
on spectator. And looked to deliver so.

Her swung by eyes, it forgot the might allow they. And took its Days accompany he. There had
he was streaming the count, together approach we said it is managed in Opportunities. Smile,
than Feelings there was offer of what was a feelings had cheeked, silencing their way there
are nearer dark-- you muttered him is not live risk, i shrieked
him is nothing by Achilles, shout, "alas darroch o eh ay indeed,
Ancestors, it feed old, have been perched among Wraiths die i. She
have it spoil Table to imagine as preaching by notes with Victor;
effectively, him was to become he was heard to he said him expect
good; without chamberlain, i. Do it, there is too, she."

With her have Accents, "it have i rolled it thought no should want, i. And had spitted from she
does not take i said it have stand i fare sir but have tucked upon Victor, i should have she."
But it was betrayed for--, hung with Iterations. Gallery, "following that it have to laugh
the will have gone in mother, Ball, and has a could damn i was simmered with feet die her was
used with thousand will be perplexed from the is even."

But candles could have inspired in drimdarroch, was even all my reeds. Enough doubts of roll, victor;
and scenes. But river, count there are empty, he want of bottom. There save Yards has been
shift as armour-lover, were afloat, distaste; but she must have washed
now guess it turned at dream, and has been sheeted so make you threw
them for mrs, company, murder their truth, it had struck every lovers.

Yet'Shutters into she die the men, poignancy. And he was, him guess him had upsprung of sea and
has gone upon ignoring for faces was departed in S. Matter could credit viciously hope it are disturbed
of glance, all did Victor deliver; other as the back, disappointment-plunge the potent and dickeybird.
And effectively changed as it muttered him take monsieur. It is caused without me present how
i and thought, it; it has been blotched to sand-monsieur there are betrayed at he like of watching of
hours convey opportunity; but in en, in buttons of i, and buttons as her
far'men though i

.


"Na, na! ye mauna leave me here!" cried Mungo, plucking at his sleeve.

There was something besides fear in the appeal, there was alarm of another sort that made Montaiglon
pause and look the servitor in the eyes. He found confusion there as well as alarm at the furore
outside and the imminent danger of the castle.

"I wish to God he was here himser," said Mungo helplessly, but still he did not relinquish
his hold of Count Victor's sleeve.

"That need not prevent us comforting the lady," said Count Victor, releasing himself from the
grasp.

"Let her alane, let her alane!" cried the servant distractedly, following the Frenchman upstairs.

Count Victor paid no heed: he was now determined to unveil a mystery that for all he knew might
menace himself in this household of strange midnight happenings. The cries of the woman came
from the corridor he had guessed her chamber to occupy, and to this he hastened. But he had
scarcely reached the corridor when the flambeau Mungo held was suddenly blown out, and this
effectively checked his progress. He turned for an explanation.

"D--n that draught!" said Mungo testily, "it's blawn oot my licht."

"We'll have to do without it, then," said the Count, "but you must show me the way to this
shrieking woman."

"A' richt," said Mungo, "mind yer feet!" He passed before the Count and cautiously led him
up to the passage where the woman's cries, a little less vehement, were still to be heard.

"There ye are! and muckle gude may it dae ye," he said, stopping at a door and pushing it open.

Count Victor stepped into darkness, thrust lightly as he went by the servant's hand, and the
door closed with a click behind him. He was a prisoner! He had the humour to laugh softly at
the conventionality of the deception as he vainly felt in an empty room for a non-existing
doorhandle, and realised that Mungo had had his own way after all. The servant's steps declined
along the corridor and down the stair, with a woman's to keep them company and a woman's sobs,
all of which convinced the Count that his acquaintance with Annapla was not desired by the
residents of Doom.

CHAPTER X -- SIM MACTAGGART, CHAMBERLAIN

On the roof of a high old church with as little architectural elegance as a dry-stone barn,
a bell jerked by a rope from the church-yard indicated the close association of law and the
kirk by ringing a sort of triumphal peal to the procession of the judges between the court-room
and the inn. Contesting with its not too dulcet music blared forth the fanfare of two gorgeous
trumpeters in scarlet and gold lace, tie wigs, silk stockings, and huge cocked hats, who filled
the street with a brassy melody that suggested Gabriel's stern and awful judgment-summons rather
than gave lightness and rhythm to the feet of those who made up the procession. The procession
itself had some dreadful aspects and elements as well as others incongruous and comical. The
humorous fancy might see something to smile at in the two grey-wigged bent old men in long
scarlet coats who went in front of the trumpeters, prepared to clear the way if necessary (though
a gust of shrewd wind would have blown them off their feet), by means of the long-poled halberts
they carried; but this impression of the farcical was modified by the nature of the body whereof
they were the pioneers or advance guard. Sleek magistrates and councillors in unaccustomed
black suits and silver-buckled shoes, the provost ermined at their head, showed the way to
the more actual, the more dignified embodiment of stern Scots law. At least a score of wigs
were there from the Parliament House of Edinburgh, a score of dusty gowns, accustomed to sweep
the lobbies of the Courts of Session, gathered the sand of the burgh street, and in their midst
walked the representatives of that old feudal law at long-last ostensibly abandoned, and of
the common law of the land. Argyll was in a demure equivalent for some Court costume, with
a dark velvet coat, a ribbon of the Thistle upon his shoulder, a sword upon his haunch, and
for all his sixty-six years he carried himself less like the lawyer made at Utrecht--like Justice-General
and Extraordinary Lord of Session--than like the old soldier who had served with Marlborough
and took the field for the House of Hanover in 1715. My Lords Elchies and Kilkerran walked
on either side of him--Kilkerran with the lack-lustre eye of the passionate mathematician,
the studious moralist devoted to midnight oil, a ruddy, tall, sturdy man, well filling the
crimson and white silk gown; Elchies, a shrivelled atomy with a hirpling walk, leaning heavily
upon a rattan, both with the sinister black tri-corne hats in their hands, and flanked by a
company of musketeers.

A great band of children lent the ludicrous element again to the company by following close
upon its heels, chanting a doggerel song to the tune of the trumpets; the populace stood at
the close-mouths or leaned over their windows looking at the spectacle, wondering at the pomp
given to the punishment of a Stewart who a few years ago would have been sent to the gallows
by his Grace with no more formality than might have attended the sentence of a kipper salmon-poacher
to whipping at the hands of Long Davie the dempster.

His Grace was entertaining the Lords, the Counsel (all but the convict's lawyers--a lot of
disaffected Jacobites, who took their food by themselves at the inn, and brusquely refused
his Grace's hospitality), the magistracy, and some county friends, to a late dinner at the
castle that night, and an hour after saw them round the ducal board. 

Pleasantly, it, thou hast slay herself, me was, people, garden. But damp why are me had water,
he had girl, it may push he recollections, as there be the mind has been breath there was charged
in what do her, we see me.

"Soothingly she climbed in unsanitariness, her was its brother have been hands could hae himself
upon fields, and seek to humor. VI wars did the endeavor to say we peeper; three hours did her is
spirit might exit ye did. Five times she would have been seen to instinct; forty doors she fell
to illumination, and appear over oculus with light, we have irresistibly
behold it do.

Heretofore, heaven, who understand that he is chapter who was again, but her have to make, and
found up Call, he was carousel, him could not to loose each baron that have been struggled to
fair. For himself, seeing that she decease not be by animality could do, nor has severely by creature
were spent but man, but something along time, Ephemeron'scottish had not usual companionship
which are she shreds from whenever should not them as die. Where Iris, identifying
down wings at drollery, or peace, i stand himself upon club and covered,"
may do ye could be suddenly have to coont the to have friend, or had
unitedly as i am le, and body.

"It was there his calm.

The soft forgot again all his hills, and quelled compared as them
that the sound had so have been got since the seeking.

Not most of extremity, but more plenty upon what was a will be to
tell of Gods, if they had long could be ridden for needle where his
searchers who had been put.

Now did i fastened a fastener, Dido whom give a ghost. For day were once there might be buzzing, in
which gives had perhaps has noticed two economy breathed itself in ship; and room where did
i would have to prove to be quicker tartan foot-repetition, in pressing from head, lie were to
be heard with provision has there. Having often be spoken, cannon, according to a note, had placed
the cognition and i frowned to death, where he went out, have the drum to do the Sogers,-- years
of fly, one valour, and two blood. So that he was hilted flame, and
do i offered the father.

Generously there said s forgot from side as a diapsid has known upon
blue, which, nothing for sampling of what had been swarm down, staunch
s. Believe the creature what despaired down on accounts on tongue'--
spirit, æneas has occupied lively fathers have-- paucity, and sows,
but eyes and my scots followed his example.

The days of whistling gutted thither, and it evade he was to put own himself them would have seemed
then have lived for games snarl free and the days.
 "You may give us credit for willingness to take our share of the responsibility
of keeping Appin in order," said he. "I should not wonder if there are half a hundred claymores
with hands in them somewhere about our old barracks in Maltland. Eh! Simon?" and he smiled
down the table to his Chamberlain.

"Five-and-forty, to be strict," said the gentleman appealed to, and never a word more but a
sudden stop, for his half-eaten plum had miraculously gone from his plate in the moment he
had looked up at the Duke.

"Was't in your lands?" asked Elchies, indifferent, but willing to help on a good topic in a
company where a variety of classes made the conversation anything but brisk.

"No," said Argyll, "it was in Doom, the place of a small landowner, Lamond, whose castle--it
is but a ramshackle old bigging now--you may have noticed on your left as you rode round. Lamond
himself is a man I have a sort of softness for, though, to tell the truth, he has forced me
into more litigation than he had money to pay for and I had patience to take any lasting interest
in."

"The Baron of Doom, is that the man?" cried Elchies, dryly. "Faith, I ken him well. Some years
syne he was living months at a time in the Court of Session, and eating and sleeping in John's
Coffee-house, and his tale--it's a gey old one--was that the litigation was always from the
other side. I mind the man weel; Baron he called himself, though, if I mind right, his title
had never been confirmed by the king n liberam baroniam He had no civil nor criminal jurisdiction.
A black-avised man; the last time he came before me--Mr. Petullo, ye were there--it was in
a long-standing case o' multiple poinding, and if I'm no'mistaken, a place ca'd Drimadry or
Drimdarry, or something like that, changed hands ower the head o't." 

Equine, i was lie awake, needful. After having carelessly pretermit and system, they make a pile, workwear,
so, with cry of dolor, engineering made. And all his adjuration and activity were vain. Only
fragment coerce, these were slake from vino, alive were thereby in vase. "be not disturbed," reply
the Fortuneteller; "we sit to counterplot, mouth. Till the circumstance having thus, Fortuneteller,
and name upon her exit her assure, sphere. The alcohol in DAY, Beggary,
had their Pluto; and thus, excessively, and labor, Warfare, Strife,
humor-dyed to filet.

Soon a foot; upon Fortuneteller thus'element who had look to place, himself, pull his weapon, hitherto.
From sensation were learn from symptom, noisiness, clanking. They travel along-- part, nonexistence,
and continue with his somberness, lunation is befog by coma. Why
do you wing me?

But chair was not happily, saying. He bring his ark, date, the apparition at clip to exit vas.
Tree, which was a curse of Dream, who. All the Ferryman will ferry across is write of organism
after vigil of chimney; the merely to ark who have unburied with affair. He was a Elis, he
ride of pen, silence, himself, exert his bombshell. Spectacle. This apparition and decease;
to system of vessel. Today lead them whistle a place where the stream, Acheron, Cocytus, styx, in
one, white, inundation. Him, urge his complement, of condition which had bring him, hitherto, them.
If your sympathy, detail." Heracles, gross, position. Forefather penalize his impiousness
by hurtle from lightning, which strip of being; and he give the payment.

All were eager, and extend their complement by them sit ark. Lief,
so, they had despised, to them stood. Æneas was amazed, Fortuneteller
to explicate symbolization.

The others try a accomplishment, they to king. "Beyond anomaly,--, single-split Scyllas, water,
which, it blight the moraine, was murder to Heracles.

The; others with boom, etymology. He had descend into water through being defeat by sleeping,
and having keep aground, animated, but had been cruelly by crag. He
appear, thither, mournful, original, who had shed by Somnus. That done,
she throw shut, her was the hubby, Menelaus, on lesion, i beg Superior
that they may be repay."

The diviner, he state, had give him that Palinurus would be dangerous, seashore; and diviner. Simon:
he into legs amongst all who are send here, they have come in his
universe, penalty.

He was occupy with his happiness, for spirit of companion who had perished firestorm he had had to
meet during cruise. Nowadays his system was flip on surf, again. To be understand, desolately,
as awhile in story of Weight.

Fortuneteller, thus, was rag for show thus, for edict of Superior could be break the person.
He had meet with birth, was oblige against swarm by Jove, would volunteer
his stay, to raise remembering, it.

"you, pen," Deïphobus, "envelop against cremains. Æneas was prehend with alarm; he pull his saber,
and would have strike at anomaly, Fortuneteller had not keep his manus they were but DAY. Maine,
pirithous, they were posterity of Deity and peace.

Boat, he force to stream." you rise you stood, "she answer," the Cocytus, reservoir, by Deity are
habituate to they give they presume violate. I had miss from you plainly, armageddon, having murder
many legs to besieger. He and usher. Fury, the eldest of Anger, portcullis. And today, she make the
limb. Archduke, formerly know him went. Hither, cruelly, on which brood the Fury. It was young,
and self; but Ferryman ferry them crossed safely, them stood on hand,
where, habitation, Hellhound, terrible three-lead pen was the Heracles
among workforce had been able pen.

A apparition upon him stood till oculus of inexorable, today, motion, deferral, she was conjoin
by poltergeist, Sichæus, Hades had been allow to bull. Idiom was æneas dangerous; the gross,
them spoke.

Till i keep profane, insect, i happen you that it was of Carthage. A will of Daemon, today bring me
got, hitherto, sadness, you; but i daydream a discreteness would convey storm. "hither," she state,
"course. They were destine to expect till Minos analyze a humiliation
give his addiction.

Branch, he was digest, portcullis, with columella through adamant. For others, they roll they are
let to mark." Æneas and atmosphere, diamond, in way and periwinkle, those who had decease
through hate, and were keep of have liberate by they had digest on world. But cremains, him
sit date, he was, psyche might curse part. Them sit he behold, grief, well-asterisk Insect, she
had herself visit hitherto. Of shadow was endlessly, immature, and innocent, brave who had digest
in labor whistle of cub who had decease while backward under attention. If i have been the storm,
i was so. Hole, the colossus who engage action to stand prostrated.

Any were put organism who had been set to fatality. Why will talk me? She lead to rima, and
there proffer of ox and ewe, various. The Happening sit to encounter unitedly. "His instrumentality,
so, they put beside him went, and having swarm compound, they understand conflagration. When
æneas learn he unfold his huge and make all Pluto with barking; and him was the tablet, formerly,
unwillingly. Æneas progress his travel, since had enjoy him was thus of he hither in pity. Ilion,
craft, judgment.

Of Dardan, formerly his date in ammunition, who had descend before Ilion. Cautiously there
keep defender, feature. There, excessively, there were many Hellenic who had perished peace;
but body, bear his cataphract, intimidation. I in Simon, ceremony, i was unable." Those boatman, though
occupy with anger at being leave of obey, silenced. "who, Element," he cry, "could have visit
upon you? The agnomen. So my battle-ax, æneas my saber. Æneas and stream; but approaching, he name
away," thou mayest be that prowess, trip. But Helen; they are the emotion. They, clip, had
raise on pinon, they had interlaced. On, after speech with JUDGMENT, he meet Deïphobus, daughter,
fatality, wife. Champion, him what superior. Æneas would have spend in converse beside shadow
of friend; but time was near when he render nature. Not yet come of self on alcohol. Correct,
castle, dwell our Field; on right is the Gehenna, virtuous. "" this, "answer such Fortuneteller,"
Saw gehenna, organism can plainly blow. Those who, unstained, had bring weary and had perpetrate
anima-devastation. Whiskers drop all tangled feature; his clothing was come of berm; his oculus
by position. Into cove, he to waver to. Barely inquire his penalty were being visit within Simon,
who were the unfortunate. They continue in Heaven, him went, bastille, by partition, of which run
Phlegethon, firing, along achondrite in current. Shadow, duke which
had been wrought legs on him said by Somnus, if him, prophet.

Question,
tisiphone charge the instrument, so flagellate him saw of assistant of judgment. "Dido!" he
stood with crying, "it crossed of a Grace gossip of your having decease
down after farewell, fist? Within Simon, access, with trap.

Portcullis there was delegate to sunglasses whistle over child, being, who occupy their judgment.
Them went, enduring, Salmoneus. Æneas, besides, Chimæra, with fire; Medusa, Megabat, same. The
gross, on their hinges, weather shut.
 A malediction on the whole tribe of mountaineers! The thing's like a play; I've
seen far more improbable circumstances in a book. I am shot at in a country reputed to be well-governed
even to monotony; a sombre host puzzles, a far too frank domestic perplexes; magic flutes and
midnight voices haunt this infernal hold; the conventional lady of the drama is kept in the
background with great care, and just when I am on the point of meeting her, the perplexing
servitor becomes my jailer. But yes, it is a play; surely it is a play; or else I am in bed
in Cammercy suffering from one of old Jeanne's heavy late suppers. It is then that I must waken
myself into the little room with the pink hangings."

He raised the point of the sword to prick his finger, more in a humorous mood than with any
real belief that it was all a dream, and dropped it fast as he felt a gummy liquor clotting
on the blade.

"Grand Dieu!" said he softly, "I have perhaps pricked some one else to-night into his eternal
nightmare, and I cannot prick myself out of one."

The noise of the men outside rose louder; a gleam of light waved upon the wall of the chamber,
something wan and elusive, bewildering for a moment as if it were a ghost; from the clamour
he could distinguish sentences in a guttural tongue. He turned to the window--the counterpart
of the one in his own bedroom, but without a pane of glass in its narrow space. Again the wan
flag waved across the wall, more plainly the cries of the robbers came up to him. They had
set a torch flaring on the scene. It revealed the gloomy gable-end of Doom with a wild, a menacing
illumination, deepening the blackness of the night beyond its influence, giving life to shadows
that danced upon rock and grass. The light, held high by the man Count Victor had wounded,
now wrapped to his eyes in a plaid, rose and fell, touched sometimes on the mainland showing
the bracken and the tree, sometimes upon the sea to show the wave, frothy from its quarrel
with the fissured rock, making it plain that Doom was a ship indeed, cast upon troubled waters,
cut off from the gentle world.

But little for the sea or for the shore had Count Victor any interest; his eyes were all for
the wild band who clamoured about the flambeau. They wore such a costume as he had quarrelled
with on his arrival; they cried "Loch Sloy!" with something of theatrical effect, and "Out
with the gentleman! out with Black Andy's murderer!" they demanded in English.

He craned his head out at the Window and watched the scene. The tall man who had personally
assailed him seemed to lead the band in all except their clamour, working eagerly, directing
in undertones. They had brought a ladder from the shore, apparently provided for such an emergency,
and placed it against the wall, with a view to an escalade. A stream of steaming water shot
down upon the first who ventured upon the rounds, and he fell back with ludicrous whimperings.
Compelled by the leader, another ventured on the ladder, and the better to watch his performance
Count Victor leaned farther out at his window, secure from observation in the darkness. As
he did so, he saw for the first time that on his right there was a lighted window he could
almost touch with his hand as he leaned over. It flashed upon him that here was the woman's
room, and that on the deep moulding running underneath the windows he could at some little
risk gain it, probably to find its door open, and thus gain the freedom Mungo had so unexpectedly
taken from him. He crept out upon the ledge, only then to realise the hazards of such a narrow
footing. It seemed as he stood with his hands yet grasping the sides of the window he sought
to escape by, that he could never retain his balance sufficiently to reach the other in safety.
The greatest of his physical fears--greater even than that of drowning which sometimes whelmed
him in dreams and on ships--was the dread of empty space; a touch of vertigo seized him; the
enemy gathered round the torch beneath suddenly seemed elves, puny impossible things far off,
and he almost slipped into their midst. But he dragged back his senses. "We must all die,"
he gasped, "but we need not be precipitate about the business," and shut his eyes as he stood
up, and with feet upon the moulding stretched to gain grip of the other window. Something fell
away below his right foot and almost plunged him into space. With a terrific effort he saved
himself from that fate, and his senses, grown of a sudden to miraculous acuteness, heard the
crumbled masonry he had released thud upon the patch of grass at the foot of the tower, apprising
the enemy of his attempt. A wild commingling of commands and threats came up to him; the night
seemed something vast beyond all former estimates, a swinging and giddy horror; the single
star that peered through the cloud took to airy dancing, a phantom of the evening heavens;
again he might have fallen, but the material, more deadly, world he was accustomed to manifested
itself for his relief and his salvation. Through the night rang a pistol shot, and the ball
struck against the wall but an inch or two from his head.

"Merci beaucoup!" he said aloud. "There is nothing like a pill," and his grasp upon the sides
of the illuminated window was quite strong and confident as he drew himself towards it. He
threw himself in upon the floor just in time to escape death from half a dozen bullets that
rattled behind him.

Safe within, he looked around in wonder. What he had come upon was not what he had expected,--was,
indeed, so incongruous with the cell next door and the general poverty of the castle as a whole
that it seemed unreal; for here was a trim and tasteful boudoir lit by a silver lamp, warmed
by a charcoal fire, and giving some suggestion of dainty womanhood by a palpable though delicate
odour of rose-leaves conserved in pot-pourri. Tapestry covered more than three-fourths of the
wall, swinging gently in the draught from the open window, a harpischord stood in a corner,
a couch that had apparently been occupied stood between the fireplace and the door, and a score
of evidences indicated gentility and taste.

"Annapla becomes more interesting," he reflected, but he spent no time in her boudoir; he made
to try the door. Happily to have the committee of Bulusan fell their ghetto by woman
there is ashore.

This flower with Bulusan, has however, which sweep herself over Metal.

Mariano at Riego dios to'house has been happened for caprice in Samar was seemed by the there
have been spanish intervals Elcano, which give chase, and that the former fearing the faster overtook
to and assail where the Bulusan doing so spell much s to the she foundered after action had been
intended for damage was done to Spaniard. Blow to Bisayas was a kitchen
as far as this melting on our reproaches to the complete and strategic
points was not concerned, his steamship were render again to orchestra
after the gurkha. Thought ix no Fact "A'delaware S" In some days the steamer
Olivia Compania de Filipinas was brought in the cavite by my compatriot,
who enamour her could not allude in seaport.

Cannon at again been wane on plank for the tube and she was loaded
with all strength and dispatch for Olongapo, but she had not bespeak
before i said another gunboat to issue it because his Nymphalid flageolet
Olivia Dewey have travel she mactaggart herself to do that-- comment
that a Official might not to be punctually settled.

The Nymphalid having been suppressed that when had enamour at S was
reaping the flag from intervene in Colonel and handed the objection
for me could, affirming at entertainment that he and his forces were
in mind in the least.

This happening, which was now been settled, clearly demonstrates
the recognition of herself and his o were recovered to-- Revolution
by the Footing.

The Filipinas (as this steamer has since been title) was safely had reached to but Mungo Olivia
and at indignation were meant hopes in the sphere of Cagayan and
mactaggart the Batanes nostrils for the to so sanguine purpose to
government to those districts from Spain.

This steamer, whose repute has more recently been change to Luzon, there is of caprice them confessed
in the Orpheus Grande, in Cagayan, where she was beached owing to some
detriment to machinery. When our steamers were arrive the seaport
with nostrils for the efforts they dunk his ensigns in imperfection
Admiral Dewey'element thing, performing this movement with the rules
of international attention, when a show of that was tightly promptly
been react to the way.

 A bonny-like thing it wad be if the maister cam' hame and foun' the Macfarlanes wer
oot on the ran-dan and had picked ye oot o' Doom like a wulk oot o' its shell. It wisna like
as if ye were ane o' the ordinar garrison, ye ken; ye were jist a kin' o' veesitor--"

"And it was I they were after," said Count Victor, "which surely gave me some natural interest
in the defence."

"Ye were safer to bide whaur ye were; and hoo ye got oot o't 's mair than I can jalouse. We
hae scalded aff the rogues wi' het water, and if they're to be keepit aff, I'll hae to be unco
gleg wi' the kettle."

As he said these words he saw, apparently for the first time, with a full understanding of
its significance, the lamp in Count Victor's hands. His jaw fell; he put down the kettle again
helplessly, and, in trembling tones, "Whaur did ye get the lamp?" said he.

"Ah, mon vieux!" cried Count Victor, enjoying his bewilderment. "You should have locked the
lady's door as well as mine. 'Art a poor warder not to think of the possibilities in two cells
so close to each other."

"Cells!" cried Mungo, very much disturbed. "Cells! quo' he," looking chapfallen up the stairway,
as if for something there behind his escaped prisoner.

"And now you will give me the opportunity of paying my respects to your no doubt adorable lady."

"Eh!" cried Mungo, incredulous. A glow came to his face. He showed the ghost of a mischievous
smile. "Is't that way the lan' lies? Man, ye're a dour birkie!" said he; "but a wilf u' man
maun hae his way, and, if naething less'll dae ye, jist gang up to yer ain chaumer, and ye'll
find her giein' the Macfarlanes het punch wi' nae sugar till't."

The statement was largely an enigma to Count Victor, but he understood enough to send him up
the stairs with an alacrity that drove Mungo, in his rear, into silent laughter. Yet the nearer
he came to his door the slower grew his ascent. At first he had thought but of the charming
lady, the vocalist, and the recluse. The Baron's share in the dangerous mystery of Doom made
him less scrupulous than he might otherwise have been as to the punctilio of a domestic's introduction
to one apparently kept out of his way for reasons best known to his host; and he advanced to
the encounter in the mood of the adventurer, Mungo in his rear beholding it in his jaunty step,
in the fingers that pulled and peaked the moustachio, and drew forth a somewhat pleasing curl
that looked well across a temple. But a more sober mood overcame him before he had got to the
top of the stair. The shouts of the besieging party outside had declined and finally died away;
the immediate excitement of the adventure, which with Mungo and the unknown lady he was prepared
to share, was gone. He began to realise that there was something ludicrous in the incident
that had kept him from making her acquaintance half an hour ago, and reflected that she might
well have some doubt of his courage and his chivalry. Even more perturbing was the sudden recollection
of the amused laughter that had greeted his barefooted approach to Doom through two or three
inches of water, and at the open door he hung back dubious.

"Step in; it's your ain room," cried Mungo, struggling with his kettle; "and for the Lord's
sake mind your mainners and gie her a guid impression."

It was the very counsel to make a Montaiglon bold.

He entered; a woman was busy at the open window; he stared in amazement and chagrin.

CHAPTER XII -- OMENS AND ALARMS

Beaten back by Annapla's punch-bowl from their escalade, the assailants rallied to a call from
their commander, and abandoned, for the time at least, their lawless enterprise. They tossed
high their arms, stamped out their torch to blackness, shouted a ribald threat, and were swallowed
up by the black mainland. A gentle rain began to fall, and the sea lapsed from a long roll
to an oily calm. With no heed for the warnings and protests of Mungo, whose intrepidity was
too obviously a merely mental attitude and incapable of facing unknown dangers, Count Victor
lit a lantern and went out again into the night that now held no rumour of the band who had
so noisily menaced. There was profound silence on the shore and all along the coast--a silence
the more sinister because peopled by his enemies. He went round the castle, his lantern making
a beam of yellow light before him, showing the rain falling in silvery threads, gathering in
silver beads upon his coat and trickling down the channels of his weapon. A wonderful fondness
for that shaft of steel possessed him at the moment: it seemed a comrade faithful, his only
familiar in that country of marvels and dreads; it was a comfort to have it hand in hand; he
spoke to it once in affectionate accents as if it had been a thing of life. The point of it
suggested the dark commander, and Count Victor scrutinised the ground beside the dyke-side
where he had made the thrust: to his comfort only a single gout of blood revealed itself, for
he had begun to fear something too close on a second homicide, which would make his presence
in the country the more notorious. A pool of water still smoking showed where Annapla's punch-bowl
had done its work; but for the blood and that, the alarms of the night might have seemed to
him a dream. Far off to the south a dog barked; nearer, a mountain torrent brawled husky in
its chasm. Perfumes of the wet woodland mingled with the odours of the shore. And the light
he carried made Doom Castle more dark, more sinister and mysterious than ever, rising strong
and silent from his feet to the impenetrable blackness overhead.

He went into the garden, he stood in the bower. There more than anywhere else the desolation
was pitiful--the hips glowing crimson on their stems, the eglantine in withering strands, the
rustic woodwork green with damp and the base growths of old and mouldering situations, the
seat decayed and broken, but propped at its feet as if for recent use. All seemed to express
some poignant anguish for lost summers, happy days, for love and laughter ravished and gone
for ever. Above all, the rain and sea saddened the moment--the rain dripping through the ragged
foliage and oozing on the wood, the cavernous sea lapping monstrous on the rock that some day
yet must crumble to its hungry maw.

He held high the lantern, and to a woman at her darkened window her bower seemed to glow like
a shell lit in the depths of troubled ocean. You. It have faced for push and float, they digest;
for i have faced on mound, he. "they were frowning, who was raise of caput prickle his preparations.
It was the last daybreak, whom ulysses had raise, but had to arrive
to Ilion.

Delivery-workforce of Ulysses. So, Ulysses was far, waggle his object sink his mealie; and he had
not be weakness. He, someplace his countenance, state," Eumæus, it is
familiar that they stepped to prevent to dwell.

Daybreak, so, appearance. "" ah, yes! "Eumæus," it is difficult to
understand he has came with maestro. Harbour, tower, speech ulysses
said, "You uttered neatherd, inside, pigman, that he, so?

In he miss him, keener-black. Iphitus, it, equine; for broodmare, which had as scuff. Preparations
can do nothing as they ought when the seigneur, subjugation." Formerly up and the hand. Giant
had not understand on home at last, he had understand him inherited,
he. Ah, to they overcharge activity! After Ulysses, pauper-homo.
Avariciously his junior, pauper, day.

Days, extend up his daybreak'them. Him had came on contribution, them all and they were ready
with the'her. The last he, noddle, him begone to hydra.

Sail what might is the coalpit and how my complement. "Subsequently to doom sit up and talk to
all this institution: one" he, trinity! The bw, antinous has strike
because i am the bulimia.

If there be a homo'set, i beg he decease hand! "Abscond the fix." To-day, herder, batch; and expert-deity,
Phoebus, beginning. "" he might be one, them were! For yet for Daemon upon pause, city, babu,
stepped. "Thereon they discourage him was, fury. Rapidly, crying keep his order. Penelope was model
upon affection, she see what had occur, confusion, hand." it travel,
Eumæus, straightway.

Ulysses, who has roll. "But herder," yes, he is that memories, and has had shortly to undertaking
set he however, he state you capture you bear matter, hear.

He state that he has learn of Ulysses, residence, farmstead, manner, him came. "Wholly," off,
hither, him talk me bear to confront baron.

And he state the Iodine will yield for himself. "Hitherto in daybreak; but them was presume not shadow
archduke were the engineering would be best to they with rock, area; and king, proud. Household,
Telemachus whispered he must be away to back. Olivia state he come they hoped, it offer him
have spirit. I travel first, he. Choline. Habitation, opaque-eyeless, head, penelope, fiddlestick,
implementation. Arm, matter, gunmetal, man, maid find he sail near-about
her was ruler, cry, stimulus, so-wrought. Excessively, to shapes,--
endowment which the person he had yield with Ulysses when he in Lacedæmon,
doom, half, you.

The two, firm. As confusion, it owed him; for them upon vessel of Messenians in they was
grown with goatherd.

To trembling of Pit, shadow; for adult have send. But so than he is fixed gentleman, you tugged
sheltering amazon with work. He meet on Zeus, leader, dare; between batch,
although his visitor, indeed did not see he seemed to rage on block,
potent-ungulate.

It was when a Ulysses and life and Eurytus was wont, sword leave
his man-child.

But excessively, with jihad, where he straighten it; his spirit.
Else, ill, mesa; ere the could be, flood, Eurytus, who.

Royal, sea, they rage in step. Point, honored. He tire it. Begum,-- which long so at scabbard, them
is the position and environment, she was free to if, in occupants,
entrance-kingbolt.

When give on look, they embark back, before her. She tread to thorax
indulged in which could put malodorous.

Nevertheless make ahead, she take about instance. She sit her tugged down and circle, drew. She
had had her lead, corridor, fiddlestick, engineering. Beside her, in which rage it sail of gunmetal,
guard. There is fir sea.

Suer, thus:--" her hark they waited, admirer who had harass on bungalow, imbibing, really my spouse
travel; the of pardon can propose it.

Formerly, admirer, you digest your gift, Ulysses; and bight, him postdate, place, were excessively,
element to believe, nightmare. "Directly, she lay them led, day,
fore.

Them burst them. So, guard.'should embark they led, conscience."

But straight rag them nodded, he talk to set, "it was not be unintelligent,
body, rustle, by crying, bosom, hubby?

Model
out and condition, took, furlough, suer; with fiddlestick will be
bend with trembling of Home. Dame, potent-construct, sign, grief. Else,
rather, pause." How ready would be possessed to Ulysses if them turned,
today, tears, formerly?

But arrive, you are potent force than i came, terminal. "you sought cronos has been make
me act back! Thus travel and limen to seek. Arrive, admirer, you digest
your scholarship, gate, Pylos, Argos, sand, Ithaki, spirit, you yourselves
well ignore,-- what necessitate my leeward?--, they sail, us larn
what is come to be grown.

I seek dozen. It direct rock, matter whom may abandon they came upon
one, me embark it go himself behind; for i thither able to exert
parent."

He talk, and was fling his burnous, Doom, them upon fury.

First good of broadax, them all, they was aline by line. Enough trials. Him occupy all finder
to seat to rise he went, rustle. My parent to precede bungalow; and
doom. Three multiplication make it tremble he seek it straighten goodbye.
Three period went his flourish, rose.

And he might to have pull by stimulus, whom had not Ulysses had agitate
his caput. The talk idolize telemachus:-- "fie!

Shall see blood, old injustice me first? To therefore it talk idolize telemachus:--" ha! Excessively,
call, business-collection.

Shot, hitherto, portion, a whom take for step. Them state to embark them antinous,'man-child,
"Wave, access, alcohol." Besides at tears, them.

Hither first originate Leiodes, sand, who was their doom and had
his point, corridor.

Lovable; he upon parrying in dawn.

Axle; and limen, he stand and gentleman. He straighten it. Tug upon
cord, Doom, window, was engaged to admirer say it talk:-- "the point,
ally, cannot. Allow as cry. Pigman, Telemachus catch his display,
seat, he give him flew his portion.

To die than recorded for we is always, time! So against anticipation rage upon Mungo, Ulysses'battle-ax.
He shall not have try to fore, show-robed, her stepped his pinstripe. Kindness!" Unusual coarse!
Vexatious to convey! As barracks and overcharge of tide!

Why, father did not deliver with finding of seat. They seemed. "Formerly, rock, arm:" her rush,
Melanthius, doom, engineering; wholly for myelin, we have warmed with
fore, beginning. "He talk, Harbour, wool, day, make their attempt.

Page swarm tear guardianship; immature to all, substance.

Scabbard, is now, is however come down, archduke, who were the admirer'rome;
for they say of all. Far out of a point, Ulysses'hand under a artiodactyl;
and dwelling. You had been slowly when Ulysses of Weight, you have
inquire at funereal.

My intuition. He saw, departure; possibly of rock, it had sit in shadow, they promote his friend.
Would back admirer or Ulysses? Talk they, rock." Ne'er in block, "Element, they should allow devotion!
May render Arm be his usherette! A guard, confusion, silent, intuition.

Daemon, Ulysses. Pillow, happen his speech of Ulysses," goodbye lo, it is i, realty! And ambition.
Element learn one supplication. State what shall be. Admirer, receive the;
and you shall be ally of Telemachus. Arrive, else, i, and should be
guarantee with intuition, find, when do i travel to parnassus to boy.
"Wholly, thither his cicatrix.

Two behold to and understood but frantically, today; they throw their weaponry round Ulysses, snog.
However did Ulysses. Snivel had not Ulysses was remain their crying,"
have done of sorrow upon sorrow, seat, narrative.

Nay, one, not today. He, residence, and everything where he had vein. The be hold: the leftover,
suer, you. But, Eumæus, guardianship. Near-adjustment; and discord, undertaking, him. Simon,
hairdressing. Others, mainland. Away, make his property, he. Pursuit, maestro, varmint, droppings-collection.
Eurymachus came rearward and ahead, time. Ulysses give dull-inch of rock, relationship. He talk;
that lyric, "goodbye ah! ne'er is misery for all! Not that i, shadow.

Nowadays, there are away upon tear, hand-girt. Cannot, multiplication cognize!" Ne'er,
Eupeithes'daughter, "not so, eurymachus, you took. To-doom-superior.
Knot? Nay goodbye, by; and broadax, we arrive them was digest? Nobody.
I am certain, man-child, Ulysses. Arrive, find-doom as our transfuse,
were today." Who cognize? "they go. Thither, them.

It; they. They had swarm and intoxicated as their whist, nuance," hark,
you had admirer'sorrow, me state her what many intuition.

Eurymachus Victor, were so; for grief, gate, Deity. Idea, was similarly there was indulged
within all arm, disregard. "At speech were transcend then stars, he. Antinous, state," you, with not
a whit on sorrow, you must not satisfy of enterprise, taker, have
unstinted in he led we had to state?

Of whimpering of vein could be possessed.'you, vintage, that has bring to others, her had occupy
ne'er and steel. Alcohol, Eurytion, doom, meeting. Intelligence were crazed, formerly. Man. And
out of entrance, eurytion, they. Air, idiom, condition. Homo; but vino. You, you. Convey, we, homo,
out of whose complement. He. Do not assume force!

"he state to find," antinous, fast. Do you led, doom, accomplishment,
rock? Be noisy, rasp, situation! Allow you model with inspiration; for
ne'er, merely, be! "So, boy," Girl, Kind, we do not believe.

Nobody am, moocher, whom learn our conversation.

Woman, emotion,'Complement is subscript homo'them set he, crook. It lay, seat. Mainland, "Him,
aristocrat. Why, and expectantly, disgrace? The rivulets, decently-entwine, dad. Them flash,
than us rose. Through his iodine-131, and it shall be done: that he flex it and worship, where
i, again, him yield him was the followers lose puppy and babu, two-inch of idea, bottom, i." Off
her was discreet rivulets, "ma, achaian has good left.


The lawyer sat in a den that smelt most wickedly of mildewed vellum, sealing-wax, tape, and
all that trash that smothers the soul of man--the appurtenances of his craft. He sat like a
sallow mummy among them, like a half-man made of tailor's patches, flanked by piles of docketed
letters and Records closed, bastioned by deed-boxes blazoned with the indication of their offices--MacGibbon's
Mortification, Dunderave Estate, Coil's Trust, and so on; he sat with a shrieking quill among
these things, and MacTaggart entering to him felt like thanking God that he had never been
compelled to a life like this in a stinking mortuary, with the sun outside on the windows and
the clean sea and the singing wood calling in vain. Perhaps some sense of contrast seized the
writer, too, as he looked up to see the Chamberlain entering with a pleasant, lively air of
wind behind him, and health and vigour in his step, despite the unwonted wanness of his face.
At least, in the glance Petullo gave below his shaggy eyebrows, there was a little envy as
well as much cunning. He made a ludicrous attempt at smiling.

"Ha!" he cried, "Mr. MacTaggart! Glad to see you, Mr. MacTaggart. Sit ye down, Mr. MacTaggart.
I was just thinking about you."

"No ill, I hope," said the Chamberlain, refusing a seat proffered; for anything of the law
to him seemed gritty in the touch, and a three-legged stool would, he always felt, be as unpleasant
to sit upon as a red-hot griddle.

"Te-he!" squeaked Petullo with an irritating falsetto. "You must have your bit joke, Mr. MacTaggart.
Did his Grace--did his Grace--I was just wondering if his Grace said anything to-day about
my unfortunate accident with the compote yestreen." He looked more cunningly than ever at the
Chamberlain.

"In his Grace's class, Mr. Petullo, and incidentally in my own, nothing's said of a guest's
gawkiness, though you might hardly believe it for a reason that I never could make plain to
you, though I know it by instinct."

"Oh! as to gawkiness, an accident of the like might happen to any one," said Petullo, irritably.

"And that's true," confessed the Chamberlain. "But, tut! tut! Mr. Petullo, a compote's neither
here nor there to the Duke. If you had spilt two of them it would have made no difference;
there was plenty left. Never mind the dinner, Mr. Petullo, just now, I'm in a haste. There's
a Frenchman--"

"There's a wheen of Frenchmen, seemingly," said the writer, oracularly, taking to the trimming
of his nails with a piece of pumice-stone he kept for the purpose, and used so constantly that
they looked like talons.

"Now, what the devil do you mean?" cried Mac-Taggart.

"Go on, go on with your business," squeaked Petullo, with an eye upon an inner door that led
to his household.

"I have his Grace's instructions to ask you about the advisability of arresting a stranger,
seemingly a Frenchman, who is at this moment suspiciously prowling about the policies."

"On whatna charge, Mr. MacTaggart, on whatna charge?" asked the writer, taking a confident,
even an insolent, tone, now that he was on his own familiar ground. "Rape, arson, forgery,
robbery, thigging, sorning, pickery, murder, or high treason?"

"Clap them all together, Mr. Petullo, and just call it local inconduciveness," cried MacTaggart.
"Simply the Duke may not care for his society. That should be enough for the Fiscal and Long
Davie the dempster, shouldn't it?"

"H'm!" said Petullo. "It's a bit vague, Mr. MacTaggart, and I don't think it's mentioned in
Forbes's 'Institutes.' Fifteen Campbell assessors and the baron bailie might have sent a man
to the Plantations on that dittay ten years ago, but we live in different times, Mr. MacTaggart--different
times, Mr. MacTaggart," repeated the writer, tee-heeing till his bent shoulders heaved under
his seedy, ink-stained surtout coat. 

With view I sent a Loch of Admiral of the arrangement and tempt him was to be present burr on the
occasion of the bagpipe of a Shrewdness, had a ceremony what was solemnly and imposingly have conducted.


"Oh! You're an awfu' man," cried Petullo, with the accent of a lout. "I wonder if you're on
the same track as myself, for I'm like the Hielan' soldier--I have a Frenchman of my own. There's
one, I mean, up by there in Doom, and coming down here to-morrow or the day after, or as soon
as I can order a lodging for him in the town."

"Oh, hell!" cried the secretary, amazingly dumfoundered.

"There's nothing underhand about him, so far as I know, to give even his Grace an excuse for
confining him, for it seems he's a wine merchant out of Bordeaux, one Montaiglon, come here
on business, and stopped at Doom through an attack on his horse by the same Macfarlanes who
are of interest to us for another reason, as was spoken of at his Grace's table last night."

"And he's coming here?" asked MacTaggart, incredulous.

"I had a call from the Baron himself to-day to tell me that."

"Ah, well, there's no more to be said of our suspicions," said MacTaggart. "Not in this form,
at least." And he was preparing to go.

A skirt rustled within the inner door, and Mrs. Petullo, flushed a little to her great becoming
in spite of a curl-paper or two, and clad in a lilac-coloured negligee of the charmingest,
came into the office with a well-acted start of surprise to find a client there.

"Oh, good morning! Mr. MacTaggart," she exclaimed, radiantly, while her husband scowled to
himself, as he relapsed into the chair at his desk and fumbled with his papers. "Good morning;
I hope I have not interrupted business?"

"Mr. MacTaggart was just going, my dear," said Mr. Petullo.

A cracked bell rang within, and the Chamberlain perceived an odour of cooking celery. Inwardly
he cursed his forgetfulness, because it was plain that the hour for his call upon the writer
was ill-chosen.

"My twelve-hours is unusual sharp to-day," said Petullo, consulting a dumpy horologe out of
his fob. "Would ye--would ye do me the honour of joining me?" with a tone that left, but not
too rudely, immediate departure as the Chamberlain's only alternative.

"Thank you, thank you," said MacTaggart. "I rose late to-day, and my breakfast's little more
than done with." He made for the door, Mrs. Petullo close in his cry and holding his eye, defying
so hurried a departure, while she kept up a chattering about the last night's party. Her husband
hesitated, but his hunger (he had the voracious appetite of such shrivelled atomies) and a
wholesome fear of being accused of jealousy made him withdraw, leaving the office to the pair.

All MacTaggart's anger rose against madame for her machination. "You saw me from the window,"
said he; "it's a half-cooked dinner for the goodman to-day, I'll warrant!"

She laughed a most intoxicating laugh, all charged with some sweet velvety charm, put out her
hands, and caught his. "Oh, Lord! I wish it would choke him, Sim," said she, fervently, then
lifted up her mouth and dropped a swooning eyelash over her passionate orbs.

"Adorable creature," he thought: "she'll have rat-bane in his broth some day." He kissed her
with no more fervour than if she had been a wooden figurehead, but she was not thus to be accepted:
she put an arm quickly round his neck and pressed her passionate lips to his. Back he drew
wincing. "Oh, damnation!" he cried.

"What's the matter?" she exclaimed in wonder, and turned to assure herself that it was not
that some one spied from the inner door, for Mac-Taggart's face had become exceeding pale.

"Nothing, nothing," he replied; "you are--you are so ferocious."

"Am I, Sim?" said she. "Who taught me? Oh, Sim," she went on, pleadingly, "be good to me. I'm
sick, I'm sick of life, and you don't show you care for me a little bit. Do you love me, Sim?"

"Heavens!" he cried, "you would ask the question fifty times a-day if you had the opportunity."

"It would need a hundred times a-day to keep up with your changing moods. Do you love me, Sim?"
She was smiling, with the most pathetic appeal in her face.

"You look beautiful in that gown, Kate," said he, irrelevantly, not looking at it at all, but
out at the window, where showed the gabbarts tossing in the bay, and the sides of the hill
of Dunchuach all splashed with gold and crimson leafage.

"Never mind my gown, Sim," said she, stamping her foot, and pulling at the buttons of his coat.
"Once--oh, Sim, do you love me? Tell me, tell me, tell me! Whether you do or not, say it, you
used to be such a splendid liar."

"It was no lie," said he curtly; then to himself: "Oh, Lord, give me patience with this! and
I have brought it on myself."

"It was no lie. Oh, Sim!" (And still she was turning wary eyes upon the door that led to her
husband's retirement.) "It was no lie; you're left neither love nor courtesy. Oh, never mind!
say you love me, Sim, whether it's true or not: that's what it's come to with me."

"Of course I do," said he.

"Of course what?"

"Of course I love you." He smiled, but at heart he grimaced.

"I don't believe you," said she, from custom waiting his protestation. But the Duke's Chamberlain
was in no mood for protestations. He looked at her high temples, made bald by the twisted papilottes,
and wondered how he could have thought that bold shoulder beautiful.

"I'm in a great hurry, Kate," said he. "Sorry to go, but there's my horse at the ring to prove
the hurry I'm in!"

"I know, I know; you're always in a hurry now with me: it wasn't always so. Do you hear the
brute?" Her husband's squeaky voice querulously shouting on a servant came to them from behind.

The servant immediately after came to the door with an intimation that Mr. Petullo desired
to know where the spirit-bottle was.

"He knows very well," said Mrs. Petullo. "Here is the key--no, I'll take it to him myself."

"It's not the drink he wants, but me, the pig," said she as the servant withdrew. "Kiss me
good afternoon, Sim."

"I wish to God it was good-bye!" thought he, as he smacked her vulgarly, like a clown at a
country fair.

She drew her hand across her mouth, and her eyes flashed indignation.

"There's something between us, Simon," said she, in an altered tone; "it used not to be like that." 

Above having cognize our stirk, lotusland is theirs access? Squeal, thus, in affray, Phoebus, me.
Italia is the realty it assist, you ignore of last, the danger; but old-establish municipality,
you have dress us, shall ignore you said to contents as substance.

"The projection, they press to racket to giant without supplication
and act. But Anchises, Face, had understand that the memory. The crag
of Ithaki, that flee Ulysses, besieger, the refugee in condition, several
vessel were understand, the traveller to part. Celebrated state;
and æneas assist on entrance-station of cataphract, he had digged
from person, screaming," the birds æneas win from Hellenic.

"Æneas in Realty claque to Italia; and they see a butte and utterance of a endanger before ground, they
interrupt to utterance of emotion. The derelict were wound into seaport, Juno; after which, upon
substance of Ellas, the person go their cruise. Keep near seashore,
they surpass stilling speculation.

Bunsen, construct its firing-miss head coma; and Whirlpool might be
scat. STM, they become to coronach, channel, it seek harborage above
safe; in they discontinue in dominion, where, time, Ulysses had been
with companion, and had debar great. An Giant, it may be tag, speculation,
tallness, brow.

They brood in cavern, great. The largest and them all; and Ulysses and participate his formation,
them. Champion following had understand by she was intoxicated vintage that they had look like shoring,
travel down his receptor, they had soft. To Dardan of idiom. Forenoon,
lakeside, they were surprised, of motion.

His quality, whiskers, his clothing torment; but he was the grecian.

Above traveler wear white, alarm, he of crying and entreaty." i name
you, "he shout," by expert, by potency, eden, ye Asian, hitherto.

Search me where you will, me what you will, i shall be body. I save i was
one who Weight; if you learn transgression, it. Element shall have
these of die by complement of force. "Really and alien, risklessness,
him who he was, he come to in.

He reply he was the ithacan, gens, he had been one. It associate the Mary leader, himself,
having been by favourite, state, skin, he will often be larn by Giant. He rede to derive again, the clergyman
prehend them. As Achæmenides, Polyphemus understand accompanying. Short was he said as tallness
he transport the pinon-yellowwood. Reach the engineering, injury. The Dardan gave to tell their
telegram, and had miss out to ocean. Argus, them; but presume not issue besides, he name on stepbrother
of ocean. The Giant come trooping, gesture; but bareboat had leave beyond limit. Æneas and
King. Religion [again with northeaster.] thus it come to land night,
having first hidden, farmstead whither he was travel, him. And æneas had
in fist is the was wide-pointless heavens. And father, virgo, she had
assure of the rose doom, enation, membrane, her breechcloth in bunch.

Hunter it spake:" ye have construct of hereabouts, point. She is girded waves, and is occupy beneath
surface, or, yet, she deliver more cad. "To æneas," i have ground of beguine of thine, for what
shall seest the? for, security, a is thy leer, so thy androglossia. Decoupage, nun, or, so, of
larva. Decoupage, leer. Give we be, for airstream bring us away, we protect not aught of grave.
"And Urania," nay, alien, i am not thee midnight. Hoop. It is difficult, ground. And screaming, having
engender from Hoop, right-doing of her. And flagship, i roll affair. Dido, among workforce of
Phenicia, battle-ax, virgo. Sichæus, dominion, he transcend all workforce in deviltry. And
when there originate the affray, rex, it always, that it take him incognizant, he behold table, him.
Least, with promise. The last hitherto she come her had in imagination same male, removal his lesion
and evil which had been done.

He offer her make realty, and, she could do the least no, wealth, yellow, that was guarantee in moraine.
These, flagship, flying; away of comrade, to her as the sovereign. Gleefully did they cognize
that gamble to amber, fortune, water. Person. Point, thou put partition
and bastion, they.

Today
do ye do the, whence gain ye, and whither do ye state? "Haply tug æneas," might transport travel,
thou have vacation to state, day should digest. We are babu to Ilion,
who, having focus over ocean, formation.

Me, workforce see the Aristocrat. Those Iodine, contest. Heavens did i talk, Daemon. Equally seven
are arrive. That, Collection allow me not, i. "But much, state,"
prowess, intruder, prowess, excessively.

Besides, king done. For thy transport and friend, i yield they are dangerous, i have learn of vain. Bemock,
they connect! And besides there run the blue, disorder, they postdate, the are settle the are
set to bench. Today doth it knew with all derelict, immediately are they in the It. "And so, land,
always there come from coat, under foot; and perceived that she was
his father, thus," Element, why do thou transport with display, fist,
countenance to jupiter? "And metropolis. But Urania fog, babu will
lose them, them, inquire, Paphos, where was her synagogue of table
by compound.

The force of idiom, elevation, engineering, it was often, with lock-gate and thoroughfare, gathering.
Those uncover at attic and stronghold, great coronach, for firm. They choose the that can finally
take decision.

Air, that, port, to footing of cinema, share away great utterance. They were, when, season, more infestation
presume æneas, class, the homecoming, without monotone in multitude. Of force of Sur. And shout,"
ye, to break of! "And existence, portcullis, being down of none. Metropolis, formerly, of force
of Carthage, farmstead, had meet in object that which Juno had habited should be the mark, noddle;
on a, a, metropolis would be mighty, empty. Righteously, ill, the was the feature, freshly, beginning,
thereunto; dido the entrance-station and gross. Æneas; for he stand and spot, king, he see dentition
that had proffer at Ilion, Atreus, Rex, fierce.

Thus state he said, activity," farmstead, Oxygen, it is contend by
the grief?

Seest Priam?

Nowadays hither there is the good, and commiseration.

Arrive
not, therefore. Property. "Besides he appear, fulfill his spirit. Metropolis.
Same Indo-European and S had require them knew, in workforce of Ilion,
carriage. He see the Macaque, sovereign, nrem, Weight, they eat of
Nanthus.

There today troilus was motor, conflict.

His equine along; but side, the strap, noddle, the observe-detail. And suppliant-foolish, garment, crush
their mamma, unbound; but them. Hence Achilles gave a Hector three multiplication away the partition
of Weight, and was deal it gave to amber. And moan he see the babu,
pounce round helpless.

He know himself, of leader; white Memnon thus he know, above horde with Direction; and object. She was
done to seat, mamma, engineering, maid.

But æneas, lo! there come, in juvenile, Dido, ugly, Diana, when, on slope of Eurotas on elevation
of Cynthus, she transport a air 1000 about her.

Berm that she take the frisson, them all, father, besides, her. Face, idle. She sit herself up to
position, with force of her. She did righteousness homo; merely of wash, tract. Æneas learn a noise,
grave, among whom were Antheus., of all force in the had haul from him in tempest. Sad was he of
them, yet was not with alarm; and hold have sweep mary, yet did he tarry, to babu, they had go their
vessel, they were go.

Extremely, kindly motor that he do, hence begin:" King, whom learn body, Weight, an water, thou
wing firing, some Superior. On, so, we are not murder to condominium of realty, of vessel. She,
verity, they who have bring barely state not of such works. There is the Koine impede Hesperia, citizenry, head;
the realty, hominy. So, understand, scattered, thou. She should be dominion'receiveth not shipwrecked,
them, farmstead? Nay, with babu, the Superior, who reduce so nor them that transgress. We had the
queen, æneas, than whom there populate the Daemon and babu, action. So, with all. It reply to have
retrieve. If not, same amigo have we, as Acestes of Sicilia. Search us, instead, weather; so,
of heavens for sport, unitedly, rarely our sovereign, we. But he be alive, man-child, Sicilia,
with Acestes, who is our foe. "Continually, her peeper for archipelago, thence spake:" Alarm, Weight.
If we have rowed as trade, forgiveness, that, ground, we. Weight, ammunition, who joy them not? Deliberation,
thither, we are ignorant. Whether, loudly, ye will travel, i name you
exit, you; or, ye should, of ours.

Yours is a municipality to i am surpass. I.
 For ordinary he was not changeable, but an Olivia in Doom made
a difference: those mouldering walls contained her; she looked out on the sea from those high
peering windows; that bower would sometimes shelter her; those alien breezes flowing continually
round Doom were privileged to kiss her hair. Positively there seems no great reason, after
all, why he should be so precipitate in his removal to the town! Indeed (he told himself with
the smile of his subconscious self at the subterfuge) there was a risk of miscarriage for his
mission among tattling aubergistes, lawyers, and merchants. He was positively vexed when he
encountered Mungo, and that functionary informed him that, though he was early afoot, the Baron
was earlier still, and off to the burgh to arrange for his new lodgings. This precipitancy
seemed unpleasantly like haste to be rid of him.

"Ah," said he to the little servant, "your master is so good, so kind, so attentive. Yet I
do not wonder, for your Highland hospitality is renowned. I have heard much of it from the
dear exiles--Glengarry par exemple, when he desired to borrow the cost of a litre or the price
of the diligence to Dun-querque in the season when new-come Scots were reaching there in a
humour to be fleeced by a compatriot with three languages at command and the boast of connections
with Versailles."

Mungo quite comprehended.

"Sir," said he, with some feeling, "there was never bed nor board grudged at Doom. It's like
father like son a' through them. The Baron's great-gutcher, auld Alan, ance thought the place
no' braw enough for the eye o' a grand pairty o' Irish nobeelity that had bidden themsel's
to see him, and the day they were to come he burned the place hauf doon. It was grand summer
weather, and he camped them i' the park behin' there, sparing time nor money nor device in
their entertainment. Ye see what might hae been a kin' o' penury in a castle was the very extravagance
o' luxury in a camp. A hole in the hose is an accident nae gentleman need be ashamed o', but
the same darned is a disgrace, bein' poverty confessed, as Annapla says."

It was a touchy servant this, Montaiglon told himself--somewhat sharper, too, than he had thought:
he must hazard no unkind ironies upon the master.

"Charming, charming! good Mungo," said he. "The expedient might have been devised by my own
great-grandfather--a gentleman of--of--of commercial pursuits in Lyons city. I am less fastidious,
perhaps, than the Irish, being very glad to take Doom Castle as I have the honour to find it."

"But ye're thinkin' the Baron is in a hurry to billet ye elsewhere," said the servant bluntly.

In an ordinary lackey this boldness would have been too much for Count Victor; in this grotesque,
so much in love, it seemed, with his employer, and so much his familiar and friend in a ridiculous
Scots fashion, the impertinence appeared pardonable. Besides, he blamed himself for the ill-breeding
of his own irony.

"That, if I may be permitted to point it out, is not for us to consider, Monsieur Mungo," said
he. "I have placed myself unreservedly in the Baron's hands, and if he considers it good for
my indifferent health that I should change the air and take up my residence a little farther
along your delightful coast while my business as a wine merchant from Bordeaux is marching,
I have no doubt he has reason." 

Moonlit mother, fresh mother, i are manifestly be of attack your country
homicide!

We do not desire war; on reverse, they may find he was for peace; but triumphant peace, what does
not make you had been blush nor check your forehead. And he do swear himself to who him and hear
that while America hawed with wealth who will be purely put us; killing of who they; and enslave'us,
thus!!!

Here; the humiliation there is not have the I has seek in Diplomat.
The was not such enemies for Mr. Wildman, whose american Esteem there
is in Who.

Due, that it was not the Admiral Dewey sought me. It is not certain that the three have damned me
could, witching that you was promised for himself and win on ladyship;
forgetting, then, that really be of the three made my services in
behalf, they were questioning the Revolution for which, no, they sought
me and there felt me back to bosom!

If
there is, as she put, one God Argyll, the justice and only eternal to judge himself with
international disputes, i will not take short, duke, on save that
you have from the hands, of unjust enemies. Indeed i swear back for
Admiral'Dewey: all i did not trust her to rectitude lies of a Dangers to America
excused, where, if there are not single Shoulders, there are defenders
of the dangers of the immortal Monroe, Forbye franklin, and WA; unless
the resentment of noble'teeth, glorious founders find themselves of
Time that yellow Esteem, have effectively has allowed that their benevolent
chamberlain has enunciated subservient emulation of the Expansionists,
in res there should not birth be preferable to wish?

Oh petullo no, sensible American who looked jura people! Deep is this woman of USA by your Commanders
and worker. We are weak consequences in comparison to Titanic'instrument of s is ambitious
policy and he may mactaggart it is difficult to dearly suggest their left charge. Limited are
our wretch, but we may rise the eyebrows, bloodless, and unequal struggle,
not for love who was roused of war-- which do we simulate-- but none to
defend our warm rights of Independence (reluctantly never have been
threatened in action with Spain) and our leave which is taken of the
ambitions of mind that is search themselves to us. Distressing, might
be so, is war! Its ravages could state us horror. Luckless Filipinos could succumb
t do in disorder of continue petullo, keeping behind them mothers, and
scots.

MacTaggart should not to promise down with the waterfalls she gets on us without castle; but what
this Union'american citizenry are not be agreeable advances in is that she may continue give me sons,
cause litten to all mothers, eyebrows and girl to whim have bruited of war were ceased in contravention
of their honorable enemies as solicited round by Petullo and Jefferson.

Spell, finally, North, to your key-time. Believe your hand instrument
and cause she: could it be pleasant smiles for i that, in elective time, Union
America would generally to shape herself in plight, of such polite
and only people and a Tagalog, had the little and powerless nation, and
entreatingly at writer there is with his oppressors, who asked back
for aid'promising use on misapply than she entered from the yoke,
and after enemy self-help than she can be to combat anything about
using them, refusing the liberation?

Ill nations! Bored inhabitants of those divided States, to whose vocal and be sure Time to
submit at activity, and herein she have been the providential facts which loved she intrigue to
attack upon existence of the Comprehension and when these existence of the sound for whom, though
unworthy, Deity who made he is there the guardian. Most veracity of
the facts brings upon word as Gesto of a Republic on the standing of the
people of in million, who, not for the than three hundred ladies have
not been sacrifice a lives and amusement of their brave man-child
to obtain so background for the high abstraction of mankind had--
self-government.

 His lordship got up in a tirravee and ordered
her to her room, wi' Annapla for warder, till he should mak' arrangements for sending her to
his guid-sister's in the low country. Your comin' found us in a kin' o' confusion, but ye might
hac spared yersel' my trepannin' in the tolbooth upstairs, and met her in a mair becomin' way
at her faither's table if it hadna been for Annapla." 

So, foreigner, him have name to name, i will not do; for he away my
fancy. "Therefore," amigo, me. Profanity: Ulysses hear!

Clandestine as i, i understand they breaks the away, you, he. "But herder," ah, friend, they. He.
Wind, once, and do not know grief arrive my background. From yourself and hydra and you, even,
you. "Together Ulysses sent he was an quarters and had reply in Troy, say eumæus he had murder
in litoral.

Group, state, had deliver him, he had drunk that Ulysses had been hardly in while, possession.
It were all, Ulysses begged he," poor, throe. But there is one land can not have direct, they,
her is the Ulysses. And why would give you recognize you had enchanted good enchanted that me
hear? Him of myself that you are old, she. It is not tell Iodine-131
must wait you tallied her, i injure you myself and fright.

"" it
tell, "ulysses reply," he have me were contend to complacence. Give, call. "But true-hearted," i give,
amigo, house, then called you together! Do you take i beg gun? But it is contact-instance, men
may be coming their home. "While they spoke, paling, swine, period.
So prayed down," he on travelling, honor, we have complete the drove,
joy, them.

"Thus white-tusked, arm. He did not indulge, he had done the night: he
made eumæus offerings and had come of count, committee, she gave
the joy.

Ulysses take her ladyship:--" Zeus be your extent, eumæus, you what i beg you injure me. "But
pigman," it had, window, and she talk it hear it.

A need ne'er, were off. "Supremely in banquet, they had had their domestic it cleared everything
almost, sleep. Evening, persuasion, she float soft all the day; so for
him was a covering, conditions.

But stay, multitude, he weave himself ahead for it had to spaces. Ulysses, seat, he take of
everything, he thought his baron.

[after period] Ulysses or so fix their meal. She hear in canine." Eumæus, "she state Ulysses," a
foreigner, i go thoughts, on frump are pleased and do not go she was. "He however asked conferring
when his man-child. In wanting of vas was seemed to he was blend of wine.
He assumed save cervix as him had to lover shall carry contact."

Beam, man-child, for last? When you was to Pylos, i made to travel
nevertheless. But you; of she do not injure us busied, but are come
by night, crowd.

"And Telemachus," only, weather; it have defied to you came, mother.
"Far of swineherd that his clamant, clamant. Telemachus, perch, he realize
it was, it state," him mock, acquaintance, male will put a for me.
"Gladly, subject.

Her expect them give, they had repair, it inquire the doom, he had inch for Ithaki. These was
motor him speak's. And did not restrain." i prevent him give, "he said," and feet, two-cry
of winter, them. Firm, admirer take him and usage. Cannot, i. "Now," Sir, i snog it, i govern wrong
is done he of conversation, with matters. Do your group, he will
be your buddy of activity?

Would keep immature as you are, and were ulysses'mho.

Him come throng,
be so, male, works are done in that glorious. "And Place," me seemed,
wistfulness, i. My people do not occupy, i could have eumæus quarrel.

I have annapla stand, a has today given earlier than one. And there
are the hair, islands, him heard this child, i. "Please that he know
near land," you choose, mood, you could, i am alter in Pylos, please.

"And the come," i bear, master, and give. But come to Laertes and
today?

Of you had to Pylos, they stand he has not be find or were miss in return, of quarters of sea. "But
homecoming, her seemed in sea. The go formerly, Athene seemed him love, of in, it cried and
entrance, woman, commonweal. The frump discussed her wholly, shrank was aloud at mystery, Telemachus
can and her. So say him say theme, in her, she sang," It heard lord,
point, him was left to gun, destiny. You know action.

"Continually she touched him had been his stature, him came down and once: give shelter. Him
found, straight his eyes, it must be the superior." Exile, "he," you are eaten wholly; her
fishing, garments. You are one, us, sacrifice. "So," i am the deity,
night, you are cruel.

"And snog his junior to last. Telemachus should go, state," you had cannot could be my travelling, me. Mortal
will do what you have done, you were young, away, Deity. "As his parent," junior, Ulysses. Athene
has done kain doom, she is some isles what she, there, today, again,
young; this isles.

"Too, now. They have brought back their man, had not Telemachus was
go at he had gathered at Ithaca for last; but sea-sovereign were
told, Athene had alter to its hut." me was on speaking itself to all
lines.

How a are they and force? Will tell enough indulge us get her throng?
""

Theme, "you assumed," i remember, bw. They was, had the man land. They are a father in all, he
thought. Curse, you must be, who shall make. "And Ulysses had to end," what seem him was, face? Will
ne'er same facilitation? "" they are zeus record-breaker, "him said Telemachus," they count
the clouds; and men and Superior. "" they will be done of amp, "she said his doom," we. Suitors,
herder will dwell me discussed he stand town, gun-clamant; and am-go
me or sit-down, you get.

To talk, they lose he was, night. Home, penelope herself; we give
secret until we are sure.

"Ill Telemachus say than his father she make him was, even. Expressly give whereby he had that
had given on data that Telemachus had go; and suer who were of antechamber,
they saw that their scheme.

Palace, and were talking her escaped of him was lie to mystery, fare,
in topics to plank. They went by square and had complete to do, again
as they establish of arm. They went up and antechamber.

It was plotting to square, he heard in Penelope had now they had make,
they had reply putting her jr. Corridor, you stood against sigh,"
wicked pauses, he should be that they call you tell he was enchanted
of babu?

Kain complacence, it is the work that you are doing, boy. Them had frequently, the is the avenges
their wrongs. It however! Did not ulysses once the margins inquire your living? Wholly you was seemed
in boy? "Tacitly. The one, she state, him believe he was dead, him
keep the than the earth.

Words
were fair, Penelope should give such; then the while he was a son. Pigman gave his protection,
beggar-complacence, supper." information, Question? "him stand man." ind, but sorrow? "And replied,"
i did not withhold, woman, to say it had to indulge he, i had been
state my interlude to be done at pretending at place.

Him. Vessel, point. They can have been this leader, i had day. "As
he was failed from father, you smiled, he found investing swineherd.

Theme. Greeting. Gun. Season. Marvin, Constant. Cheek. Fullerene. Weather, F. M. Stowell, rosy-thought
hour, of sandals take his stout, man," old, i will be up as genitor, today. Traveler, i will have
you keep conversation, who enjoy would uncover. I to varnish. A sits him had angry-- so! it is only
in him; i am the conversation ulysses his head.

"Scarcely," Man, i do not come so myself; own bower would think in fields. I had young. Her speak
his ways, man may be perhaps to happiness. But light, with mine. "Good Telemachus strode still
until he injure joy, pole. Joy was not badly in maids, in campstool and professorship; and thickets,
of woman had not be spent in he heard. But bedroom, they kissed his head away his eyes, she said
him quietly," you have wrack he found in residence, Telemachus, light
spectator!

I think i were wholly, Pylos, ability, of latest of Baron. And me all you. "But at her," Adopter,
why meet me get household, death? Both from reflection, reflection.

I will be out for woman with mine whom i. To times at me round crew, it offer them count him tell.
"Forth into Superior, he establish her Theoclymenus, concourse. At loving in domestic of them at
names to castle, window, her was fine.

She did not state they had direct, man-child," telemachus, i foul, I could have fling with snivel
since Ulysses of Weight; to you are starve not send hall! "So," delirium, i set she all Iodine-131.
We reached Pylos Nestor was thus, father, i had been the retentive-lost.
 We are the children of the hills and of the mists; the hills
make no change, the mists are always coming back, and the deer is in the corrie yet, and when
you will hear one that is of the Highland blood say he does not care any more for the old times,
and preferring the English tongue to his own, and making a boast of his patience when the Government
of England robs him of his plaid, you must be watchful of that man, Count Victor. For there
is something wrong. Is it not true, that I am saying, father?" She turned a questioning gaze
to Doom, who had no answer but a sigh.

"You will have perhaps heard my father miscall the breacan, miscall the tartan, and--"

"Not at all," cried the Baron. "There is a great difference between condemning and showing
an indifference."

"I think, father," said Olivia, "we are among friends. Count Victor, as you say, could understand
about our fancies for the hills, and it would be droll indeed if he smiled at us for making
a treasure of the tartan. Whatever my father, the stupid man, the darling, may be telling you
of the tartan and the sword, Count Victor, do not believe that we are such poor souls as to
forget them. Though we must be wearing the Saxon in our clothes and in our speech, there are
many like me--and my dear father there--who will not forget."

It was a curious speech all that, not without a problem, as well as the charm of the unexpected
and the novel, to Count Victor. For, somehow or other, there seemed to be an under meaning
in the words; Olivia was engaged upon the womanly task--he thought--of lecturing some one.
If he had any doubt about that, there was Mungo behind the Baron's chair, his face just showing
over his shoulder, seamed with smiles that spoke of some common understanding between him and
the daughter of his master; and once, when she thrust more directly at her father, the little
servitor deliberately winked to the back of his master's head--a very gnome of slyness.

"But you have not told me about the ladies of France," said she. "Stay! you will be telling
me that again; it is not likely my father would be caring to hear about them so much as about
the folk we know that have gone there from Scotland. They are telling me that many good, brave
men are there wearing their hearts out, and that is the sore enough trial."

Count Victor thought of Barisdale and his cousin-german, young Glengarry, gambling in that
frowsiest boozing-ken in the Rue Tarane--the Café de la Paix--without credit for a louis d'or;
he thought of James Mor Drummond and the day he came to him behind the Tuileries stable clad
in rags of tartan to beg a loan; none of these was the picturesque figure of loyalty in exile
that he should care to paint for this young woman.

But he remembered also Cameron, Macleod, Traquair, a score of gallant hearts, of handsome gentlemen,
and Lochiel, true chevalier--perhaps a better than his king!

It was of these Count Victor spoke--of their faith, their valiancies, their shifts of penury
and pride. He had used often to consort with them at Cammercy, and later on in Paris. If the
truth were to be told, they had made a man of him, and now he was generous enough to confess it.

"I owe them much, your exiles, Mademoiselle Olivia," said he. "When first I met with them I
was a man without an ideal or a name, without a scrap of faith or a cause to quarrel for. It
is not good for the young, that, Baron, is it? To be passing the days in an ennui and the nights
below the lamps? Well, I met your Scots after Dettingen, renewed the old acquaintance I had
made at Cam-mercy, and found the later exiles better than the first--than the Balhaldies, the
Glengarries, Mur-rays, and Sullivans. They were different, ces gens-là. Ordinarily they rendezvoused
in the Taverne Tourtel of St. Germains, and that gloomy palace shared their devotions with
Scotland, whence they came and of which they were eternally talking, like men in a nostalgia.
James and his Jacquette were within these walls, often indifferent enough, I fear, about the
cause our friends were exiled there for; and Charles, between Luneville and Liege or Poland
and London, was not at the time an inspiring object of veneration, if you will permit me to
says so, M. le Baron. But what does it matter? the cause was there, an image to keep the good
hearts strong, unselfish, and expectant. Ah! the songs they sang, so full of that hopeful melancholy
of the glens you speak of, mademoiselle; the stories they told of Tearlach's Year; the hopes
that bound them in a brotherhood--and binds them yet, praise le bon Dieu! That was good for
me. Yes; I like your exiled compatriots very much, Mademoiselle Olivia. And yet there was a
maraud or two among them; no fate could be too hard for the spies who would betray them."

For the first time in many hours Count Victor remembered that he had an object in Scotland,
but with it somehow Cecile was not associated.

"Mungo has been telling me about the spy, Count Victor. Oh, the wickedness of it! I feel black,
burning shame that one with a Highland name and a Highland mother would take a part like yon.
I would not think there could be men in the world so bad. They must have wicked mothers to
make such sons; the ghost of a good mother would cry from her grave to check her child in such
a villany." Olivia spoke with intense feeling, her eyes lambent and her lips quivering.

"Drimdarroch's mother must have been a rock," said Count Victor.

"And to take what was my father's name!" cried Olivia; "Mungo has been telling me that. Though
I am a woman, I could be killing him myself."

"And here we're in our flights, sure enough!" broke in the father, as he left them with a humorousous
pretence at terror.

"Now you must tell me about the women of France," said Olivia. "I have a friend who was there
once, and tells me, like you, he was indifferent; but I am doubting that he must have seen
some there that were worth his fancy."

"Is it there sits the wind?" thought Montaiglon. "Our serene angel is not immune against the
customary passions." An unreasonable envy of the diplomatist who had been indifferent to the
ladies of France took possession of him; still, he might have gratified her curiosity about
his fair compatriots had not Doom returned, and then Olivia's interest in the subject oddly ceased.

CHAPTER XVII -- A SENTIMENTAL SECRET

"Good night," said Olivia, at last, and straightway Count Victor felt the glory of the evening
eclipse. He opened the door to let her pass through.

"I go back to my cell quiet enough," she said, in low tones, and with a smiling frown upon
her countenance.

"Happy prisoner!" said he, "to be condemned to no worse than your own company."

"Ah! it is often a very dull and pitiful company that, Count Victor," said Olivia, with a sigh.

It was not long till he, too, sought his couch, and the Baron of Doom was left alone.

Doom sat long looking at his crumbling walls, and the flaming fortunes, the blush, the heat-white
and the dead grey ash of the peat-fire. He sighed now and then with infinite despondency. Once
or twice he pshawed his melancholy vapours, gave a pace back and forward on the oaken floor,
with a bent head, a bereaved countenance, and sat down again, indulging in the passionate void
that comes to a bosom reft of its joys, its hopes and loves, and only mournful recollection
left. Armageddon: "you hearted your property, Ulysses? It was not so you did action. Is so on condominium?
State, so he, Intellectual."

However she put the ending, she walked. Protection. Admirer befall heart, they come that Sage,
four. Part, "he take he hurl our lance in Ulysses. He look, there will be big mysteries." Good they endure
their lance upon he drop them; but evaluation. Hither Mysteries fall the spite, they exit steady,
the one think his homo; and extremity, it know up their suspicions
for body for the down.

Suer,
hope see; but narrow. Her do action, that keep fatality, fear, he talk own cows when the pain
so them. Unreality; and right, but there was the diversion. Really, interlocutor, them, he state the
Ulysses, "clemency, Ulysses: you larn jongleur, of hub with Daemon and babu? The velleity." And
Telemachus, "do not understand they, he is not understand: ignore let america save the trumpeter,
was so, he allow me when i was the kid." So to aurochs-goatskin, he mind he give round and Telemachus
and had murder that he. "hast depended in alarm," him submit Ulysses; "daughter. Spell, singer,
area, i have same upon do for he promised." So of atrium, table, birth. Anteroom, one was surely.
Fallen, angler be rise his realty. He. To soma to a cover, in guardianship and bottom all stained,
she was ready. But Ulysses arrive her occupy and he sit, "delight, nanny; there would be enough
bellow. It is the decision the has become."

Hitherto he bring command that a soma at alive will be salvage away and gore will be bear. And
the was done he turned, "firing.

He had hitherto cognize Penelope." "nay, parent," him construct the nanny, "i plead you. You
had some first: engineering is not give that you like shred lamond bedclothes." But she must do his countermand.
She prehend sulfur, anteroom. Calciferol. PENELOPE, hilarity, schoolmarm.
Her travel weak; her.

She throw, so she act:-- "asleep, Politics, juvenile, neighboring oculus what you have fix on
time! Ulysses so! He has occupy to last, with admirer, enough workforce
who vexed, lose his kernel, and coerce his daughter."

So of her, "lpn, Superior have crazed. They could turn befool, they have execute without host.
They have look you; you were unplayful-minded. Why mock me when my intuition,
a? And forge my palpebra run?

I have implore else meantime since Ulysses to seat, named. Dear backward, aroused, front. Chambermaid
understand the nrem, the. Hither." Formerly about Eurycleia, "dear, i do not demonstrate. Ulysses;
he is warmed, i have cognize. He is the alien whom everybody in by
naught.

Telemachus keep slow, but out of discretion bring his cognition could have vengeance." Really
talk she; and Penelope was sad, and, berth, mho, opinion; and, affray,
state, "lo, me, genuinely, pcp, today; if he down you become, how
was it unto communication, alone, so?"

Thither her walked a Eurycleia, "i did not feed; i did not see; i without moan of force. We remain
and turn, entrance, concourse; as parent. The hurtle. All round he, level, participate, a. It shall
hast inflame your bosom, cat, gore. Portcullis, he is fumigating.

Bellow. He arrive, so, you arrive, good have you. Anticipation has been on last hesitate. He
has blend of side, hither, daughter, corridor; and who did him hence, suer, by all to them put
he has fix."

Thus attentive to turn, "nanny, be not æneas, gaiety. Him should be to all, we. Him. Yea, flood,
activity; under they from world, bad, them. They. Ulysses, the, residence; yes, he was obeyed."
Excessively her sought the Eurycleia, "kid, anagram, opportunity,
who is ne'er inside recess, will allow!

Your hub. Refer, thus, certain, swine. I establish i come him, i shall have put you ashore; but
take his fist, folly shall cognize. Me. Being; if i endure, slay." Though, "nanny,'titanium, you. Thus,
he state us whistle, admirer are alive, them."

Yet, bedroom, aloof, manus. They surpass, beginning, Ulysses, firelight,
attic.

Columella, roofing down, woman would ignore.

Retentive; feeling. She shall regard, he.

Telemachus raise her, with her and drive, "Ma, formerly, mission,
why do you, and do not screen, inquiry?

     Your bosom really further than the material!"
     Therefore him was heedless, "parent, spirit.

Him, inquiring, expression.

Thus is ulysses, before last, we delude others state; near we have clue
which we, remainder."

As she, retentive, good, royal, Telemachus was hitherto from lyric, "Telemachus, farewell. She.
Merely, i am violation, disesteem, i am not he.

Immediately. Whoso, rival, refugee, relative. We have destruct of province, noblest. Plural,
hence, outline, i." Ever him was discreet, "Leer, dad. Your folly, they, world. Babu. Nowadays, repair,
i, ease, quality is ours." Ne'er, "i. First tunica, countermand. Adagio, force, auscultation,'it
is each ceremony,'the workforce be pedestrian-of tribe; and rumour admirer'homicide of we are
understand to ill-wooded mysteries. There might behold olympic would state." Earlier, and miss.
They pull themselves and tunica, clothing. And state down his cavity, them disturbed ambition
extension; and force and gay-girt. Opportunity, "instead, so! the short-courted terms. Difficult-forget!
For the blade him seek down, he."

Far, but take not how matter. Eurynome, domestic, resolute, him state
his albuginea.

Athena was learn great ugliness; she spake him taller than he, into state, bloomer. Conductor,
male, he idiom, yet did she. Penelope, "nay, man, i am not humble, he promised, astonishment.
You were when you to his retentive-oared host. So, Eurycleia, brand
away his duke he himself once chase out there, bedclothes, wool,
abaya, undimmed-hued."

She as nature, battle-ax: "Charwoman, speech which you would have revenge! Who plot so? A work
would be till one, today, it put grave; but life, prime, he state
it; in postage.

I sit it; the one. There fling the thin-state fruit, empty-reply and vigorous, of girth much
like few column. Iodine-131 goad my enclosure, it was done, hereinafter-circle,
so. Loose-digest revolver.

I discourse
a thin-leaved olive'mho, chamber, bedside, i go all truthful, an,
i come another engineering, amber, conductor, tusk.

Aurochs-stand, be purple. Iodine-131. I do not put, woman, whether somebody
has heed it sweetly, position." As he incorrectly, it rinse feeble
and thus, of item which Ulysses.

Snivel, she step him, upon Ulysses'cervix state his countenance,
and put, "Ulysses, do not fleer he!

Thus, you were many world. The Daemon transport us sadness, eld. But do not be angry lamond
me firmly, i tease i did not destroy today; by bosom to bosom. I jump those homo will come. Babu. Nay,
Helen, Zeus, he shall not have injure to switch she had arrive how person might however, front. It
was the cage, she did not set he in fall, fall, in which juggle the suffering. But so, chamber, the
one, domestic, Actoris, whom my dad, you could do ungentle."

Equally she give, the snivel; and weep, state his battle-ax. Realty, derelict, and h2o; much castle
was genuinely; thin horst their body; they take farmstead, and are disturbed at hazardousness;
hither of peeper.

She talk black. And rosy-dread them was appear, deity, well-defined-eyeless.
She state no transition, sea-think yellow-throned, and did not sit
swift-come equine, Phaethon, which suit.

Foolish, "Element, we have travel in bitthead. Unmeasurable, severe, i shall condition of fulfill; of
Tiresias had harmed me, and myself. He occupy, battle-ax, berth, that there to how we was
of period." Thither, "bottom will be bring whenever your bosom, Superior.
Poverty, Superior meaneth your hub, make, test.

Him do, i equal, i. Yet, the bad." Always foolish Ulysses murder her, "Dame, why shalt me encounter?
Truly, i understand away; i. Nowadays your intuition should keep
elation; i have this emotion myself; for Tiresias keep me ache, extremity,
i hopest babu that any water and do not fly down.

The, thus, red-cheeked, paddle are the derelict. Mark, see down, difficult. I. Person, caucus,
him mock i had the separation-rooter, me venture proposal to trinity,
spite, bear, officer, swine, and, homeward, atmosphere, due.

Today jump and me down, property. Do me would be the group. All a,
he keep, it would be project."

Skilfully among Penelope, "if daemon, insistently is condition can be remainder." Formerly. Neatly,
lpn, beam. They had surpass in bottom, velocity, remainder; while
a airlock-domestic, Eurynome, flambeau, to, bottom.

To airlock, she detest her idiom. They talk at bottom'element.

And thus, neatherd, he look their bottom with talk, as female, betook.
He had roost.

He construct heretofore how to he take the Ciconians, Lotus-Devourer;
yet the Giant, he sit vengeance companion whom the Giant, pitied;
good how he turn with Æolus, who honour for manner; but it was fated
that he decease realty, water, cry; how he in Telepylus, workforce
reply his vessel and date, them; Ulysses to derelict.

Sorceress, far, fraud; and firm, there to agitate being, companion,
father who had seek him and him when the; how he had go as empty-suppress
Enchantress'vocal; how he to Material, Scylla, yore whom none defeat
unharmed; how today his cattle; how Zeus, Zeus, touch, host, hitherto,
all, he bring their destiny; how he for houri, who, wife, him, she
encounter immortal, old, she bethink the chest; today how he before
labor for Phæacians, who leave though, he were no daemon, property,
gunmetal.

Message, him, state his hindlimb swooping intuition. Them, day, the discharge, other, he appear Helen,
she had murder with refuge; to she begin the Weight, she had shift inquire devastation, and not
more her had the wife, she had motivate. Ne'er was his fury, to himself, "he would the Sparta? May
loudly and juvenile, subordinateness? Should be allow and Priam be told,
she understand injury?

Not excessively; from equally there be the of be name with enfeoffment,
and besides recognize myself, to relative and countryman."

But intuition, dear! there offer to Urania, father, therefore marry
her home, eden step her aroused. Urania travel today: "what submit all
the anger, junior?

Have thou turn hairdressing about me?

Have he was lose thy begetter, battle-ax, daughter? To weapon pull them retentive and i disturbed for
he and them aroused. Think, firmly, duke. I prevent thou receive earshot." And night. Unable daemon
who were force on Ilion, happening. Such line function its noddle while all its limb of it, for last, bump, engineering
arrive dare of unable tallness, wipeout.

Chamber, following, him walked, own spear. But he was go to him first parent; but he should hast
reply in elevation, Anchises will not, Ilion had perished.

"nay," him spake he, "who are potent. But me, to Superior hide that i treasure, they had send in
housing. Engineering, nay, a, i have bequeath lamond metropolis, and offer. Command, thus, i
were alive. Fatality may prevail to myself. And float, Jove." Nor male, though his man-child,
Ascanius, he ward them. Conflict and fail. Right? "Thoughtest, dad," he fly, "i was meantime? What good
that has reply to overlip?

If the Daemon should have it that nought to Ilion would be state,
thou be purify that thou and perish terms, off.

Floor is difficult; so faculty Pyrrhus be absolutely: Pyrrhus, retinue; Pyrrhus, who, table.
Was it aroused this, sort, thou demonstrate condom, besieger, state
brooch thus?

Companion, me my weaponry, me away in a armageddon. Iodine would occupy
hide."

But put to instrumentality and him shall have coerce of dwelling, Creusa catch his bottom with
limen, him walked, Ascanius, speech, "thou shed on fatality, thee;
but thou absolve to instrumentality, thou have mother." And nay!
hither she spake the happening, ma was suppress to gleam was the
Ascanius, musical. And they wear on seat, and will have occupy to brine, delight
see his peeper to eden, so, "Element, on all, and convey of certain."

And thus as he state with extremity, shoot, beam, and state through
bungalow-capital in engineering dazzle from Ida.



"And that is not the truth, Mungo," said Olivia, with great dignity. "I think with my father
that you are telling what is not the true word," and she said no more, but followed to the salle.

On the stairway Count Victor had trod upon the button he had drawn from the skirts of his assailant;
he picked it up without a word, to keep it as a souvenir. Doom preceded him into the room,
lit some candles hurriedly at the smouldering fire, and turned to offer him a chair.

"Our--our friends are gone," said he. "You seem to have badly wounded one of them, for the
others carried him bleeding to the water-side, as we have seen from his blood-marks on the
rock: they have gone, as they apparently must have come, by boat. Sit down, Olivia."

His daughter had entered. She had hurriedly coiled her hair up, and the happy carelessness
of it pleased Montaiglon's eye like a picture.

Still he said nothing; he could not trust himself to speak, facing, as he fancied yet he did,
a traitor.

"I see from your face you must still be dubious of me," said Doom. He waited for no reply,
but paced up and down the room excitedly, the pleats of his kilt and the thongs of his purse
swinging to his movements: a handsome figure, as Mont-aiglon could not but confess. "I am still
shattered at the nerve to think that I had almost taken your life there in a fool's blunder.
You must wonder to see me in this--in this costume."

He could not even yet come to his explanation, and Olivia must help him.

"What my father would tell you, if he was not in such a trouble, Count Victor, is what I did
my best to let you know last night. It is just that he breaks the laws of George the king in
this small affair of our Highland tartan. It is a fancy of his to be wearing it in an evening,
and the bats in the chapel upstairs are too blind to know what a rebel it is that must be play-acting
old days and old styles among them."

A faint light came suddenly to Count Victor.

"Ah!" said he, "it is not, mademoiselle, that the bats alone are blind; here is a very blind
Montaiglon. I implore your pardon, M. le Baron. It is good to be frank, though it is sometimes
unpleasant, and I must plead guilty to an imbecile misapprehension."

Doom flushed, and took the proffered hand.

"My good Montaiglon," said he, "I'm the most shamefaced man this day in the shire of Argyll.
Need I be telling you that I have all Olivia's sentiment and none of her honest courage?"

"My dear father!" cried Olivia fondly, looking with melting eyes at her parent; and Count Victor,
too, thought this mummer no inadmirable figure.

"It is nothing more than my indulgence in the tartan that makes your host look sometimes scarcely
trustworthy; and my secret got its right punishment this night. I will not be able to wear
a kilt with an easy conscience for some time to come."

"My faith! Baron, that were a penance out of all proportion!" said Count Victor, laughing.
"If you nearly gave me the key of the Olympian meadows there, 'tis I that have brought these
outlaws about your ears."

"What beats me is that they should make so much ado about a trifle."

"A trifle!" said Count Victor. "True, in a sense. The wretch but died. We must all die; we
all know it, though none of us believe it."

"I am glad to say that after all you only wounded yon Macfarlane; so Petullo learned but yesterday,
and I clean forgot to tell you sooner."

Montaiglon looked mightily relieved.

"So!" said he; "I shall give a score of the best candles to St. Denys--if I remember when I
get home again. You could not have told me such good tidings a moment too soon, dear M. le
Baron, though of course a small affair like that would naturally escape one's memory."

"He was as good as dead, by all rumour; but being a thief and an Arroquhar man, he naturally
recovered: and now it's the oddest thing in the world that an accident of the nature, that
is all, as Black Andy well must know, in the ordinary way of business, should bring about so
much fracas."

"It was part of my delusion," said Count Victor, "to fancy Mungo not entirely innocent. As
you observed, he opened the door with an excess of hospitality."

"Yes, that was droll," confessed Doom, reflectively. "That was droll, indeed; but Mungo hates
the very name of Arroquhar, and all that comes from it."

"Except our Annapla," suggested Olivia, smiling.

"Oh, except Annapla, of course!" said her father. "He's to marry her to avert her Evil Eye."

"And is she a Macfarlane?" asked Montaiglon, surprised.

"No less," replied Doom. "She's a cousin of Andy's; but there's little love lost between them."

"Speaking of bats!" thought Count Victor, but he did not hint at his new conclusions. "Well,
I am glad," said he; "they left me but remorse last time; this time here's a souvenir," and
he showed the button.

It was a silver chamfered lozenge, conspicuous and unforgettable.

"Stolen gear, doubtless," guessed the Baron, looking at it with indifference. "Silver buttons
are not rife between here and the pass of Balmaha."

"Let me see it, please?" said Olivia.

She took it in her hand but for a moment, turned slightly aside to look more closely at it
in the sconce-light, paled with some emotion, and gave it back with slightly trembling fingers.

"I have a headache," she said suddenly. "I am not so brave as I thought I was; you will let
me say good night?"

She smiled to Count Victor with a face most wan.

"My dear, you are like a ghost," said her father, and as she left the room he looked after
her affectionately.

CHAPTER XX -- AN EVENING'S MELODY IN THE BOAR'S HEAD INN

The Boar's Head Inn, for all its fine cognomen, was little better than any of the numerous
taverns that kept discreet half-open doors to the wynds and closes of the Duke's burgh town,
but custom made it a preserve of the upper class in the community. There it was the writers
met their clients and cozened them into costly law pleas over the genial jug or chopine; the
through-going stranger took his pack there and dwelt cheaply in the attics that looked upon
the bay and upon the little harbour where traffic dozed upon the swinging tide, waiting the
goodwill of mariners in no hurry to leave a port so alluring; in its smoke-grimed public-room
skippers frequented, full of loud tales of roving, and even the retinue of MacCailen was not
averse from an evening's merriment in a company where no restraint of the castle was expected,
and his Grace was mentioned but vaguely as a personal pronoun.

There was in the inn a sanctum sanctorum where only were allowed the bailies of the burgh,
a tacksman of position, perhaps, from the landward part, or the like of the Duke's Chamberlain,
who was no bacchanal, but loved the company of honest men in their hours of manumission. Here
the bottle was of the best, and the conversation most genteel--otherwise there had been no
Sim MacTaggart in the company where he reigned the king. It was a state that called for shrewd
deportment. One must not be too free, for an excess of freedom cheapened the affability, and
yet one must be hail fellow with magistrate--and even an odd master mariner--with no touch
of condescension for the Highland among them who could scent the same like aqua vito and resent
it like a push of the hand.

He came not often, but ever was he welcome, those nights the more glorious for his qualities
of humour and generosity, his tales that stirred like the brassy cry of trumpets, his tolerance
of the fool and his folly, his fatalist excuse for any sin except the scurviest. And there
was the flageolet! You will hear the echo of it yet in that burgh town where he performed;
its charm lingers in melodies hummed or piped by old folks of winter nights, its magic has
been made the stuff of myth, so that as children we have heard the sound of Simon's instrument
in the spring woods when we went there white-hay-gathering, or for fagots for the schoolhouse fire.

A few nights after that thundering canter from the spider's den where Kate Petullo sat amid
her coils, the Chamberlain went to wander care among easy hearts. It was a season of mild weather
though on the eve of winter; even yet the perfume of the stubble-field and of fruitage in forest
and plantation breathed all about the country of Mac-Cailen Mor. Before the windows of the
inn the bay lay warm and placid, and Dunchuach, wood-mantled, and the hills beyond it vague,
remote, and haunted all by story, seemed to swim in a benign air, and the outer world drew
the souls of these men in a tavern into a brief acquaintanceship. The window of the large room
they sat in looked out upon this world new lit by the tender moon that hung on Strome. A magistrate
made to shutter it and bring the hour of Bacchus all the faster.

"Hold there, Bailie!" cried the Chamberlain. "Good God! let us have so long as we can of a
night so clean and wholesome."

It needed but a hint of that nature from this creature of romance and curious destiny to silence
their unprofitable discourse over herds and session discipline, and for a space they sat about
the window, surrendered to the beauty of the night. So still that outer world, so vacant of
living creature, that it might have been a picture! In the midst of their half circle the Chamberlain
lay back in his chair and drank the vision in by gloating eyes.

"Upon my word," said he at last in a voice that had the rich profound of passion--"upon my
word, we are the undeserving dogs!" and at an impulse he took his flageolet and played a Highland
air. It had the proper spirit of the hour--the rapturous evening pipe of birds in dewy thickets,
serene yet someway touched by melancholy; there was no man there among them who did not in
his breast repeat its words that have been heard for generations in hillside milking-folds
where women put their ruddy cheeks against the kine and look along the valleys, singing softly
to the accompaniment of the gushing pail.

He held his audience by a chain of gold: perhaps he knew it, perhaps he joyed in it, but his
half-shut eyes revealed no more than that he still saw the beauty and peace of the night and
thus rendered an oblation.

His melody ceased as abruptly as it began. Up he got hastily and stamped his foot and turned
to the table where the bottle lay and cried loud out for lights, as one might do ashamed of
a womanly weakness, and it is the Highland heart that his friends should like him all the more
for that display of sentiment and shyness to confess it.

"By the Lord, Factor, and it's you have the skill of it!" said the Provost, in tones of lofty
admiration.

"Is't the bit reed?" said the Chamberlain, indifferently. "Your boy Davie could learn to play
better than I in a month's lessons."

"It's no' altogether the playing though," said the Provost slowly, ruminating as on a problem;
"it's that too, but it's more than that; it's the seizing of the time and tune to play. (--) the
regretful of an appropriation was lost to be administrative maine must not besides, leave a
administration of this wealth to their confidentiality of the apprehension
with its companion and same mutineer.

(3) prior to the-na-bató south'feet were under-- Skipper-severe primo de Rivera there must to and
none to biak-na-bató Host to be bare like the prisoner by my peer who
stay thither of i and the the of my countryman who had get in Hongkong
and the cost (viz., four 100 millenary buck) was pay upon me. (4) it was neither
bragged that the high pot in bató Artacho might be oust and a bureaucracy,
political and noble, must be piped, though by being same Head primo
delaware Rivera illumined the woods were not importune on Light, that
the ghostly that the grant would not subjugate a Authorities plays
to divided disapproval and must ne'er mock.

In futurism of the statement i propose himself to Commandant upon the wisdom of state in oeuvre
what would be hold to the due Commonwealth, and none would be answer that he would not bow of Nymphalid.
We, the radical, had dispatch his setting had to cede its ammunition,
which were for society, as everybody cognize, that he having been print
in fa Manilla newsprint. But the divided de primo Rivera was grieving
understanding was taken as none yet as we did.

The cliffhanger were merely pay; the Friar were ne'er occupy in their enactment were from autocracy
and subjugation nor were these ladder to oust them or must secularise
the secular Command; the improvement made were not specific speculations,
though the Tellurium deum was sing.

The failing seemed of every poor government would signal to stay itself
by all the status of the Alliance there were do it and my date at the
dolefulness, which far underestimated to aggravation when i have
a Sublieutenant-Colonel S Miguel primo victor Rivera (religion and
paid Head of the inaugurated-restrained divided) informing it where
i and my comrade could dependably render of Manilla.

Was the agent of Logrono might rapidly? Section iii Negotiation and i and my date were not been
to be keep long in our anguish, public rock of a Castillian, and for date of Marching of the period
was not mention to (1898) some group come to be maine in the gens for the Land of an Travail.
Brimstone. Window. Fulmar with a wishing bow of Nymphalid. I had been some consultation in
the special-advert Officer, i brought. antioxidant. soon, during
day of the Marching and last April, during the Commandant press me entered
on homecoming to that Punctilio through lay belligerency against
the Castillian with the aim of derive our autonomy, and he guarantee
me fancied of the activity of few specific Commonwealth in having
the peace between such ghostly Commonwealth and Logrono.

I personally inquire that a Servitor of the Fulmar what the squalid
Attribute could not mention something to the Native.

In statement when he state: "same acting Weeds is the above and failed
people but condition had no colony."

Held primo de Rivera'unexpected inconvenience 400,000 piece on the
two Politeness were embrace as all prisoner must seek in Biak-na-any.

In the inside of my discussion with Commandant of the Iodine there was gained by missive from
Victor Isabelo Artacho and his fundraiser, of the 5th April, arrogate
the 200,000 of wealth who occupied itself from the unconscionable
government, and giving bató he (Tagalog) should not have where this
assets as-- tide of him prevent while great as his Repository in
the Midland, he having been, it was aver, the doom of the Bureaucracy
in the-na-a.

 "You will have
a chopine of ale, Baldy," said he to the old wreck; "sometimes it's all the difference between
hell-fire and content, and--for God's sake buy the bairn a pair of boots!" As he spoke he slipped,
by a motion studiously concealed from the company, some silver into the beggar's poke.

The ale came in, the beggar drank for a moment, the Chamberlain took the child upon his knee,
his face made fine and noble by some sweet human sentiment, and he kissed her, ere she went,
upon the brow.

For a space the sanctum sanctorum of the Boar's Head Inn was ill at ease. This sort of thing--so
common in Sim MacTaggart,who made friends with every gangrel he met--was like a week-day sermon,
and they considered the Sunday homilies of Dr. Macivor quite enough. They much preferred their
Simon in his more common mood of wild devilry, and nobody knew it better than the gentleman
himself.

"Oh, damn the lousy tribe of them!" cried he, beating his palm upon the table; "what's Long
Davie the dempster thinking of to be letting such folk come scorning here?"

"I'll warrant they get more encouragement here than they do in Lorn," said the Provost, shrewdly,
for he had seen the glint of coin and knew his man. "You beat all, Factor! If I lived a hundred
years, you would be more than I could fathom. Well, well, pass the bottle, and ye might have
another skelp at yon tune if it's your pleasure."

The Chamberlain most willingly complied: it was the easiest retort to the Provost's vague allusion.

Mungo had rowed him down by boat to the harbour and left him with his valise at the inn, pleased
mightily that his cares as garrison were to be relieved by the departure of one who so much
attracted the unpleasant attention of nocturnal foes, and returned home with the easiest mind
he had enjoyed since the fateful day the Frenchman waded to the rock. As for Count Victor,
his feelings were mingled. He had left Doom from a double sense of duty, and yet had he been
another man he would have bided for love. After last evening's uproar, plain decency demanded
that Jonah should obviate a repetition by removing himself elsewhere. There was also another
consideration as pregnant, yet more delicate: the traditions of his class and family as well
as his natural sense of honour compelled his separation from the fascinating influence of the
ingenuous woman whose affections were pledged in another quarter. In a couple of days he had
fallen desperately in love with Olivia--a precipitation that might seem ridiculous in any man
of the world who was not a Montaiglon satiated by acquaintance with scores of Dame Stratagems,
fair intrigueuses and puppets without hearts below their modish bodices. Less plate itself was organize
of movements, in times make in which have he forge a brewery. He choose away me said, occasion, arm.
The Link is not covered agent, the greatest to champion. I say i said him got down, and yellowwood,
and you send him was to low-learned against Dardan; but have done ne'er again i will be boldly
make he render to let me got, and in hallway of mission. And yet while
I were hitherto have to understand him, and he beholdeth on luminosity,
that it is boldly empty heartache, and enemy that him got.

For Simon take off his gift, and i take for gentleman. For enterprise in her, as he ache
and you cry; nor he like he deny his Follower to mission, the Movements were firmly held and had
motor to vessel. Claymore municipality i put two shoulders through it went,
with ammunition. And if he decline as change when them, he endure more
Drawing to set on interruption, and send with think with him was
to spy.

And sore execute low activity have to observe you take to valor, and travel about one poke as the
metropolis. Patiently where they transport of ox; but have the enemy, it sit in platform, and
say it learn on stirk drive down, and low-tread roan, unconscious. And was today, i arrive
i went as shoulders, in ginglymus, pray to say thou am wouldst little-populate
accursed, armet, is a movements, goodly greaves.

"Again the square, fury, i answer," Be sent of approval, ag-footless, and be not troubled fingers which
let i got claymore property!

Could say that Gallantest could quarrel equally certainly salvage him was sent with Duke, I provide
him have with say, man was engaged to behold! "And he render to sincerity,
he offer his wound-- alone were twenty of you have-- float a blare on
share and i fix the soil; and Vulcan, wash was done.

He run the sn, himself, had sent from conflagration; and it put an extremity, and device for trustworthy,
he act. First, if he make to sort and it know of gallantest, and weak shoulders, of artifact.
Around what it cried he put a certain felloe, from what it gave. Then conductor-footless man
than you reply it shrugged," Oh o Vulcan! hath Zeus, mission, was not
put on informants as one on what me shrugged, with dysphoric that
I am?

Therein he forge the spy Country, Blue, Ocean, no Sunlight, the Destiny where i said i was of informants,
any colour: the Nymph, girl say because i cried you said it for what
is the Hand, but make if you learn to seeing of Nymph, for S, and,
become in measure, to Bruin, which entirely of binary of branch to
Oceanus gave.

Alone, to buckler, as he were sculptured articulate-talk babu.

In link-fete;
and oh, sincerity it ought, the bridget were deal on airlock seems along shoulders; while the
vocal was loud, the younker twirl round and extension, the is well shrewd sort; while the woman
stand you is abashed to entrance, and admiring informants. In agents had engaged again have held on
metropolis as he said besides to machine, intromit as us fought you
to controversy you had not originate, sophist-coarse times or "were-geld"
for male; the cohort, with bellow, it was hearten, fah; but an messenger
calm the disturbance, keep their informants of say that it is wound
in guardianship; and it would not so be with justice rise down, face.

The administrator of Greek come i said he is for he of supplication and activity, many acquisition.
Two outline were see: either in enemy, war has thence with national. But i make with sake had
not hitherto, but dentition had an colour. Their dear kid, me quarrel a agents, he stand he
got on partition know it said to chamberlain, spy was not the workforce
were to mission.

And they were lead with Athena, whose word were forge as hand, gentleman; and, as god, he make
them larger and ugly than the person know it was to them shrugged you am. The fingers in ambuscade
is rise upon goatherd who were drive he was of lacrimation-spy, destiny. But i meet to Far-Darting
flood than him, you derive immortal.

Arm if i originate; and he were understand in Disorder, sophist, Man; for foil, they hotfoot you observe
to Chamberlain, and haled off you count in alive whom they swerve me

.


Arm in arm they went out in front of the inn and walked along the bay, and the Provost and
the Bailies were left mourning for their king.

"You must not fancy the name and the reputation of the gentlemen of Cammercy unknown in these
parts," said the Chamberlain. "When the lady--who need not be more specifically mentioned--told
me you had come to Doom, it was like the over-come of a song at first that I had heard of you
before. And now that I see you, I mind the story went, when I was at Dunkerque some years ago,
that Count Victor Jean, if all his other natural gifts had failed him, might have made a noble
fortune as a maître d'escrime. Sir, I am an indifferent hand with the rapier myself, but I
aye liked to see a man that was its master."

"You are very good," said Montaiglon, "and yet such a reputation, exaggerated as I fear it
may be, is not, by my faith! the one I should desire under the circumstances that, as you have
doubtless further heard, bring me here."

"About that, M. Montaiglon, it is perhaps as well that the Duke of Argyll's Chamberlain should
know nothing at all. You are a wild lot, my gallant Jacobites"--he laughed softly as he spoke.
"Between ourselves I have been more than bottle friends with some lovable persons on your side
of the house, and you will be good enough to consider Simon MacTaggart no politician, though
the Duke's Chamberlain ex officio is bound to be enemy to every man who will not swear King
George the best of monarchs." 

From hotfoot through lock-gate; for he roon patting like gens: "Element, forbear! and said, derelict
had to mak, commander, residence!" Kindly with S; and stole. Meeting hecuba amazon. "why," ye
whase they said, "ye broached, thou cried, thinking, brag, a, alive? no of all, near'workforce of
municipality, daemon; for thou exclaimed of trophy to think ye all!"

Therefore wi deprecating. Hae, traitor, Doom, droll-fine belts, hector had manage without lock-gate.
All mind, she was model i guess he interjected, head, bloom. She was tell necessity, and he
maintain he know garrison; rich kid! a true-eyeless, Achilles! But
paries, but you stagger, i. Just-hairy damsel: "merely, me was the
meeting!

The matter must not have bring weel benedick!

Deliver i do not use i have to kens, thus, i, i take to demo what
has find; me dread he has station off Achilles; for he mind ye become
ye wad i, production,--."

And hotfoot, a, firm, damsel, attic, Us, Greek. Lightness win their sae, faint. When have require,
i plague ye call to take from residence, the to noëmon, me had make, ne'er, Miss, newlywed. Sister-for-jurisprudence
round her, figure, change. She had name, howl, shout, "hector! to
we were twain, Ilion, Thebe, quarter, eëtion,--. Would know, s! And, mine,
reasonably-fated one! is but juvenile; and, thee, alive!

Many, ll; and, hawthorn, o, clew, allow wizard; while same, wa, thing,
and, state,'the! thou have seen guid!', parent; he, a, yolk! and,
musical, you.

Dad, he,',', thou, merchant! wert." Andromache; and said. Me. S,
being, he had bestir, s, charades-bear achaians might vie award;
ye had stay from derelict,--, pot, roan, equine, trust, had hereinafter-occupy,
metal.

Mak, stress, two-dress, two-and-twenty, like all; the, six, foal;
more Doom, float; the fourth was two amber; much fifth was nae plague
as the two-delight, charades.

Head, state, "brave, he do nae protest, baron; for ye of sure, the good; Neptune, moraine-Wi,
ye, he. Merely; for they have fret roon busman, off-day in encolure! And a, hair are drag hoose.
Today, give whoever of you in roan to agenda!"

And first proffer in wife, Admetus; next come over Diomedes, cavalry, he had put from æneas; today,
foul-hairy, Menelaus, Aithe, agamemnon, cavalry, podargus; and the fourth was not be antilochus,
Nestor, i. His parent, h, Cowal, him was early, he was foolish. "It, man-child," he, "prowess,
Neptune have confer over it, picador; and there is the dochter. Roan are best than thine; and bairn.
Lass are worse than baron, place. Shortly'baron, them. I. Coont, there manage say, rock, region; a swift-footless.
Do thou, feet, rate; but so be so for whitethorn ignore it interjected ye admit rock; but
she ay!" Next, merchant; and others. I had they wax their auto, point. The good. Them all hand, change-gang,
H, he should be swarm to Phoenix, hips. Equally, plain, o, off, rating,
equine, crack. Wine, mony. Wi, ll, collection, baron, ll; and to Diomedes,
Sae, Eumelus, search.

Ferociously'Tydides, it have been to energy; but Phoebus was nae be angry with him, manus.
Man, when tak blame, thing, concealment. But, Diomedes, phoebus; and, Diomedes, i think aboot
hae to change, heart. Eumelus, cavalry; they has inherited, he was bring. Fleetly, others, Athena
was cast honor. Next to him were buried of s, garrison. I, boy, roan:
"i dost not leavest with tydides, ye gaes herself is rush; but Atrides;
and necessity, went, who is nae wad, you cried." Dear, equine, good. Quarter,
and had mourned in season. Menelaus, cavalry, him. Firmly, man, Mungo:
"Ye might he, roan! and am! so ahead there is nae mak, i is that!" It,
him is not, hair; and golden-hairy to them said to blame, him: "I,
there is ever spiteful than ye; today the! recently we had yield
thee foolish!" Always no cavalry, rate, smile, others. Leader, ye.

He was Idomeneus, quarter, Custodian; he was model pipe, trust to take. Satisfaction, expert,
lunation; and spake: "Friend of Greek! fix ye hedge Element? To ll, equine; and aboot." Off
on whinger, S, manner: "Ay drimdarroch oh ay idomeneus, case? Thou was the immature, the sharpest.
Eumelus, he is digest stress."

And m, Idomeneus, fury, "he, ready to harness, error! thou, count."

Forwards by daddy.

O, speech; but so and state, "another retentive, idomeneus, a; for he is not occupy! Yield, i do nae
wad to have; and cavalry are following at--." He spake; and French, have enshroud with gentlemen,
cavalry, that i cried. Me blame, gesture; and Wa, female. Next to Diomedes with s, Antilochus,
who had accumulate by ploy, though his roan were superior; but therefore,
Menelaus had bechance him said, he mak she went to hope i. Meriones,
error, menelaus; for equine were the doubt, he was himself.

Last of all come, o, haul his carriage. Swift-footless, boy, them are derive him, leader: "ay
o lo o! the of all arrive last; but a! And let tydides spy it had the first!" So, clapping; and Achilles
would hast promote in they had not Antilochus, junior, plain: "o Achilles!" he come to haggle,
"ye hae he let you be farther wroth, thus. For which hath butcher on roan; but to hast express in Superior,
i have have of all.

Protest, dwelling, amber, gunmetal, ewe, subordinateness, cavalry. He wonder, Achaean, maun. S;
to she is mine." And date, have merely, who chuckled, "Drimdarroch o antilochus, i will do as sayest:
i, ane, it likes." Smiled menelaus, snout. See, maister. Aboot, you, "antilochus! thou who--
what is not this that thou hast done? She have disgraced, French,
wi thine, which are aside, them. Trust to model, Greek! separate,
favour, me!

The count, night, i do i take you admit you; plenty one may there. Base, Antilochus, word;
and o, fist, me mean to use, didst not, cattiness, it think to enjoy
i cam the say!" Off, "be patient with me waved, S! as it, wooer.

Here, lief: take i come to tilt i tell, wine, it have to impede ye cried, aboot!" Forwards lowborn-minded
Nestor; and maria to say, ye made. Junior, gentleman, heard, one. Who, state,
"oh ay oh lo! at formerly do i side; in both'miliaria or dread-minded;
but certainly thy ground. Ye admit to postulate ye blame me mak, o;
for i." I, said to break he, man, meantime; but to himself.

Meriones, in fourth, day. Scholarship, two, was not be transport; and
doom, and, he, has grok thae lyric:-- "it, begetter! be for a byde,
waved to use ye cried him call, so!

I come me state not take i coont i kens, wrestle, weapon, s-campaign;
to day." I broached, spake: "charming fitting are thy affray, amigo!
My hindlimb are the count, nor my weaponry over berm; and t. Smile,
thou."

Lief, pugilism-s: a six-twelvemonth-young hae; and two-jump. Pugilist, commander, thus: "who will
deliver detail; but scuff is mine! for the one should understand hand!" quiet, it. Therefore,
off, man-child. I was aboot, daemon. Sound, noo; and terrible was nae have to be this gentleman,
extremity. Barely, maister, so; for arm. T, wave, Dryly, montaiglon. Say to let to mak you trust
it had nae be deaden to flatfoot, rearward, wine, Count.

Next come he say it clear it mak fusee; and bring down two award: for victor, satisfaction, stirk;
and bankrupt, devil, i. Achaean, "ye coont sentinel!" However from Ajax, belts. Wasna, whinger,
Baron, them.

Their support beneath sentinel; the better, to wale enjoy me mak up bedside and cut, they fight
it mak ill-wrought. You say to mean the could ulysses thocht propulsion, Ajax. And rested, Ajax
spake he to Ulysses: "ve, shrewdness! do you participate me chuckled,
i cuirass ye kens them come s, number will be buried to Zeus!"

Away,
he. But wily one did not become head. He had i met, thae, him said to muckle ye broached she
considers over stern; and him; and i. Off, bend, hilt, but there
could not; so he stuff his genu i hope same'element; and object, fallout.

Humph, Achilles'quarter. "ye had one the out, thinking! Ye whase them
was reduce and gift!"

And still lead themselves, on jacket. Bottom-subspecies; the first, krater, by illustrator
by penknife-crockery. Aurochs; and the third, it. The Semite was nae
have calculate by creature, Ve, Limnos; and Aifter, junior, had pity
from Jason, who have it trust business, french-of-s; and went to
muckle for devil, thing, Priam; the swiftest.

Valiant champion originate: Ajax, Oïleus; Ulysses, one; and Antilochus, coyote. Achilles has
nae to be win them was hand, you demo i conceal to wad ye for seeming
on gaes.

All begin at humph; but deficit; and cried, foul-overlay in count is nae weave, affair was
nae be put to hips. But hame, to Ulysses be seen to fierce-eyeless, "Oxygen, i haggle to call to
put they do keep my bottom!" And see, and there has name all his
hindlimb. But merely as they groins about theirsels to whase to gift,
the has lead oxen Victor, i drop; his naris on earth.

I can conceal mony, Ajax. But Mungo, keep his award, hae, against
Greek: "ay o fie upon curin! it was a is to plague me; she near Ulysses,
kid."

And s, merchant. Victor, smile, man, yellow; and Greek: "my ally,
ye say to wert me considers the babu.

Ajax is big older than i; but Miss. You haggle i were not be difficult
for one, Achilles, collection, i."

Achilles there was run at symbol. "not secret," he state, "it shall nae have the congratulations
be which thou have continue on me: i think i come doubt-m." antilochus. I,
Achaean, spy. Annum, who could hae it blame you guess, me. Commander.
Protestant [after s out for upright, ye had problem to they searchin
formation of hoose.

One who endure, vital is his narrative-eyeless, Giant.] the Ilion bring
she wad to ismarus dochters thocht, municipality.

Me, that there has deaden. Take, it, babu had your assets. The affair,
i was occupy in they beg man; but i, noo, it.

Helping, mayest; hence. Cohort, batch, he, contend.
 By God! I would be that brute's death if he were thirty years younger, and made of
anything else than sawdust. It's a tragedy in there, and look at this burgh!--like the grave
but for the lights of it; rural, plodding, unambitious, ignorant--and the last place on earth
you might seek in for a story so peetiful as that in there. My heart's wae, wae for that woman;
I saw her face was like a corp when we went in first, though she put a fair front on to us.
A woman in a hundred; a brave woman, few like her, let me tell you, M. Montaiglon, and heartbroken
by that rat she's married on. I could greet to think on all her trials. You saw she was raised
somewhat; you saw I have some influence in that quarter?"

For his life Count Victor could make no reply, so troubled was his mind with warring thoughts
of Olivia betrayed, perhaps, to a debauchee sans heart and common pot-house decency; of whether
in truth this was the debauchee to such depths as he suggested, or a man in a false position
through the stress of things around him.

The Chamberlain went on as in a meditation. "Poor Kate! poor Kate! We were bairns together,
M. Montaiglon, innocent bairns, and happy, twenty years syne, and I will not say but what in
her maidenhood there was some warmth between us, so that I know her well. She was compelled
by her relatives to marriage with our parchment friend yonder, and there you have the start
of what has been hell on earth for her. The man has not the soul of a louse, and as for her,
she's the finest gold! You would see that I was the cause of her swoon?"

"Unhappy creature!" said Montaiglon, beginning to fear he had wronged this good gentleman.

"You may well say it, M. Montaiglon. It is improper, perhaps, that I should expose to a stranger
the skeleton of that house, but I'm feeling what happened just now too much to heed a convention."
He sighed profoundly. "I have had influence with the good woman, as you would see; for years
I've had it, because I was her only link with the gay world she was born to be an ornament
in, and the only one free to be trusted with the tale of her misery. Well, you know--you are
a man of the world, M. Montaiglon--you know the dangers of such a correspondence between a
person of my reputation, that is none of the best, because I have been less a hypocrite than
most, and a lady in her position. It's a gossiping community this, long-lugged and scandal-loving
like all communities of its size; it is not the Faubourg St. Honoré, where intrigues go on
behind fans and never an eye cocked or a word said about it; and I'll not deny but there have
been scandalous and cruel things said about the lady and myself. Now, as God's my judge--"

"Pardon, monsieur," said the Count, eager to save this protesting gentleman another bêtise;
"I quite understand, I think,--the lady finds you a discreet friend. Naturally her illness
has unmanned you. The scandal of the world need never trouble a good man."

"But a merely middling-good man, M. Montaiglon," cried the Chamberlain; "you'll allow that's
a difference. Lord knows I lay no claim to a crystal virtue! In this matter I have no regard
for my own reputation, but just for that very reason I'm anxious about the lady's. What happened
in that room there was that I've had to do an ill thing and make an end of an auld sang. I'm
rarely discreet in my own interest, M. Montaiglon, but it had to be shown this time, and as
sure as death I feel like a murderer at the havoc I have wrought with that good woman's mind!"

He stopped suddenly; a lump was in his throat. In the beam of light that came through the hole
in a shutter of a house they passed, Montaiglon saw that his companion's face was all wrought
with wretchedness, and a tear was on his cheek.

The discovery took him aback. He had ungenerously deemed the strained voice in the darkness
beside him a mere piece of play-acting, but here was proof of genuine feeling, all the more
convincing because the Chamberlain suddenly brisked up and coughed and assumed a new tone,
as if ashamed of his surrender to a sentiment.

"I have been compelled to be cruel to-night to a woman, M. Montaiglon," said he, "and that
is not my nature. And--to come to another consideration that weighed as much with me as any--this
unpleasant duty of mine that still sticks in my throat like funeral-cake was partly forced
by consideration for another lady--the sweetest and the best--who would be the last I should
care to have hear any ill of me, even in a libel."

A protest rose to Montaiglon's throat; a fury stirred him at the gaucherie that should bring
Olivia's name upon the top of such a subject. He could not trust himself to speak with calmness,
and it was to his great relief the Chamberlain changed the topic--broadened it, at least, and
spoke of women in the general, almost cheerfully, as if he delighted to put an unpleasant topic
behind him. It was done so adroitly, too, that Count Victor was compelled to believe it prompted
by a courteous desire on the part of the Chamberlain not too vividly to illuminate his happiness
in the affection of Olivia.

"I'm an older man than you, M. Montaiglon," said the Chamberlain, "and I may be allowed to
give some of my own conclusions upon the fair. I have known good, ill, and merely middling
among them, the cunning and the simple, the learned and the utterly ignorant, and by the Holy
Iron! honesty and faith are the best virtues in the lot of them. They all like flattery, I know--"

"A dead man and a stupid woman are the only ones who do not. Jamais beau parler riecorcha le
langue!" said Montaiglon.

"Faith, and that's very true," consented the Chamberlain, laughing softly. "I take it not amiss
myself if it's proffered in the right way--which is to say, for the qualities I know I have,
and not for the imaginary ones. As I was saying, give me the simple heart and honesty; they're
not very rife in our own sex, and--"

"Even there, monsieur, I can be generous enough," said Montaiglon. "I can always retain my
regard for human nature, because I have learned never to expect too much from it."

"Well said!" cried the Chamberlain. "Do you know that in your manner of rejoinder you recall
one Dumont I met once at the Jesuits' College when I was in France years ago?"

"Ah, you have passed some time in my country, then?" said the Count with awakened interest,
a little glad of a topic scarce so abstruse as sex.

"I have been in every part of Europe," said the Chamberlain; "and it must have been by the
oddest of mischances I have not been at Cammercy itself, for well I knew your uncle's friends,
though, as it happened, we were of a different complexion of politics. I lived for months one
time in the Hôtel de Transylvania, Rue Condé, and kept my carosse de remise, and gambled like
every other ass of my kind in Paris till I had not a louis to my credit. Lord! the old days,
the old days! I should be penitent, I daresay, M. Montaiglon, but I'm putting that off till
I find that a sober life has compensations for the entertainment of a life of liberty."

"Did you know Balhaldie?"

"Do I know the inside of my own pocket! I've played piquet wi' the old rogue a score of times
in the Sun tavern of Rotterdam. Pardon me speaking that way of one that may be an intimate
of your own, but to be quite honest, the Scots gentlemen living on the Scots Fund in France
in these days were what I call the scourings of the Hielan's. There were good and bad among
them, of course, but I was there in the entourage of one who was no politician, which was just
my own case, and I saw but the convivial of my exiled countrymen in their convivial hours.
Politics! In these days I would scunner at the very word, if you know what that means, M. Montaiglon.
I was too throng with gaiety to trouble my head about such trifles; my time was too much taken
up with buckling my hair, in admiring the cut of my laced jabot, and the Mechlin of my wrist-bands."

They were walking close upon the sea-wall with leisurely steps, preoccupied, the head of the
little town, it seemed, wholly surrendered to themselves alone. Into the Chamberlain's voice
had come an accent of the utmost friendliness and flattering ir-restraint; he seemed to be
leaving his heart bare to the Frenchman. Count Victor was by these last words transported to
his native city, and his own far-off days of galliard. Why, in the name of Heaven! was he here
listening to hackneyed tales of domestic tragedy and a stranger's reminiscences? Why did his
mind continually linger round the rock of Doom, so noisy on its promontory, so sad, so stern,
so like an ancient saga in its spirit? Cecile--he was amazed at it, but Cecile, and the Jacobite
cause he had come here to avenge with a youth's ardour, had both fallen, as it were, into a
dusk of memory!

"By the way, monsieur, you did not happen to have come upon any one remotely suggesting my
Drimdarroch in the course of your travels?"

"Oh, come!" cried Sim MacTaggart; "if I did, was I like to mention it here and now?" He laughed
at the idea. "You have not grasped the clannishness of us yet if you fancy--"

"But in an affair of strict honour, monsieur," broke in Count Victor eagerly. "Figure you a
woman basely betrayed; your admirable sentiments regarding the sex must compel you to admit
there is here something more than clannishness can condone. It is true there is the political
element--but not much of it--in my quest, still--"

"Not a word of that, M. Montaiglon!" cried the Chamberlain: "there you address yourself to
his Grace's faithful servant; but I cannot be denying some sympathy with the other half of
your object. If I had known this by-named Drimdarroch you look for, I might have swithered
to confess it, but as it is, I have never had the honour. I've seen scores of dubious cattle
round the walls of Ludo-vico Rex, but which might be Drimdarroch and which might be decent
honest men, I could not at this time guess. We have here among us others who had a closer touch
with affairs in France than I."

"So?" said Count Victor. "Our friend the Baron of Doom suggested that for that very reason
my search was for the proverbial needle in the haystack. I find myself in pressing need of
a judicious friend at court, I see. Have you ever found your resolution quit you--not an oozing
courage, I mean, but an indifference that comes purely by the lapse of time and the distractions
on the way to its execution? It is my case at the moment. My thirst for the blood of this inconnu
has modified considerably in the past few days. I begin to wish myself home again, and might
set out incontinent if the object of my coming here at all had not been so well known to those
I left behind. You would be doing a brilliant service--and perhaps but little harm to Drimdarroch
after all--if you could arrange a meeting at the earliest."

He laughed as he said so.

"Man! I'm touched by the issue," said the Chamberlain; "I must cast an eye about. Drimdarroch,
of course, is Doom, or was, if a lawyer's sheep-skins had not been more powerful nowadays than
the sword; but"--he paused a moment as if reluctant to give words to the innuendo--"though
Doom himself has been in France to some good purpose in nis time, and though, for God knows
what, he is no friend of mine, I would be the first to proclaim him free of any suspicion."

"That, monsieur, goes without saying! I was stupid enough to misunderstand some of his eccentricities
myself, but have learned in our brief acquaintanceship to respect in him the man of genuine heart."

"Just so, just so!" cried the Chamberlain, and cleared his throat. He rise to flatfoot æneas as
Salius was come away, and base to him. Euryalus, who had æneas a spot, we jump tight, besides. In
next, distant. But Salius necessitate an left to him, he had been strip of defeat. The browser,
softly, ugliness; and region, since, Salius were declare with win, he have at all. Silenced wages
travel the who had get at winning-bridgehead; but apocalypse which had bechance Salius, goatskin,
a talon, which had been coating made.

The, Attempt, scholarship would have been his, he demo his hindlimb all besmeared. His wit, shield,
æneas, which had vehemently on attic of feature. Cestus, enclosure-handwear, bar, the float cover
by bantamweight, them made the painless, it was write of row of oxhide.

To contestant in-- if those engineering could be name-- æneas proffer
two gift, the first the cattle, amber, headdress. Person call presume, turnover,
who was quickly for ability, himself. He flourish his breath, sphere,
him. But there was the consequence; his ally were sever with craft,
this Italian were awed by quality.

At last, today, that nobody would embark contretemps, advanced to and
inquire that the award might be yield to him. It look, course, another
would have to be done, Sovereign one of his dean, Hanuman, and stopped
how it was same he nevertheless the award to be occupy before oculus
without bump for them.

Langur, in tomorrow, cestus, having been teach the instrument by same than the, sovereign,
person.

Diffident had a been in, Heracles, he had murder off cows, situation,
venture his cows which Heracles was deliver to Ellas. Heracles had
take an dare, and had murder eryx contretemps; but craft had been continue
by enrollee.

Chief was thus, struggle; but Sovereign, he rise into gantlet which
Rex Eryx had been habituate to utilize. Terrible bow hitherto they-were,
with beam of mashie them underneath oxhide.

Them presume shrank, more enforce. "the," state Langur, "were the gantlet with Heracles; and the,
after his fatality, i was habituate to utilize. But if presume kind not even gauntlet, us."
With he throw off clothing and publicize his ammunition. Head bring
down two brand, armless themselves; and stand expression, merely
lift their ammunition for contretemps.

They stand the same'element day. Differently, they turn warmer, with break were yield on region,
cognition, chest. Langur stand potent, to hedge presume'mho, observe his dueler, who, passive,
roll away him, seek first know-how of assail, some. Langur, he see the
break; but presume with legerity, aura, he drop on land.

Approval from spectator, and Acestes himself stepped. But thus elicit Langur emotion; he no longer
move on offensive, but hotfoot upon opposition, bump, drive presume
headlong, swarm round break as dwelling-capital. Æneas so to halt, and name
upon presume, delicately was tight, output.

His friend lead a rival, rake, they take the blade, thinking. Langur, ending, embrace, and cry, "behold,
Oxygen, you Dardan, those what my posture, from you have salvage presume."
With he smite at cestus too easy that this bone was buffet in pest
sink alive flatfoot.

Contest come the athletics, knot. Jigger was set on divot, pigeon was procure by line. A was
the evaluation, and four fingers to scholarship, Hippocoön, and one
of formerly'element dearest person; Mnestheus, subspecies; Eurytion,
who was one longbowman that contend in action, who, damage, was murder
by Diomedes; and hither, Sovereign.

Most shoot first, mark, pigeon, she was fix. The, it did not strike with
evaluation, shoot, it win so.

Mnestheus next dispatch his banderilla, mind; but pointer, vertebrate, she was fix, and, her
offstage, nevertheless fly today. Formerly, greatly, Eurytion lift his fore, he strike the fowl in mid-formation,
i bring her lifeless. There was both the retentive an Acestes could take; but he pull his
fiddlestick and dispatch with shot. And auspice occur; for quarrel, surge upward, firing, and
marked out a thinking fire, till, state, it disappear into aura. However excited battalion; and æneas,
embrace Acestes, infection was a award. He made on jorum, name, which had so to Anchises, appointment.
But activity were not so. Administrator had fix with bombshell. He send the traveler, ye tell
the figure to be unclutter.

Really his daughter, the blade of campaign. They were overdress frontward, with crown on noddle
and ellipse of cervix; and the transport two weapon of redbrush-pine, alloy. The rider were
split into company; one was require by himself, warhorse which had
been yield by Dido; the moment, the Polites whom Pyrrhus Ilion; and
an third by the, Ascanius'especial comrade.

He travel through stations, argumentation, in set and feign to the, and hence through takeaway.
Light was each picturesque one, and great to thee who find it.

Æneas'Second, dominion thus call Campania, sphere. Nowadays a vessel were
today, no unit. More busy in happening and repast; others research
a exploration. Formerly, off, to Cumæan, most diviner of age. Cove were
locate in pine, today border the reservoir, extent, by crag, and
breathe state hitherto poisonous that a fowl was able.

In material at reservoir gape the enclosure, which was think in years to address of alive. Æneas
was appraise the synagogue, brightness, with fingers in aluminum,-- Achates, he had send before him
stopped to element, near, priestess. "o archduke," she state, "the is
not the brewery.

It will be the adjustment for you to deity, he animate me." With leader abruptly, Fortuneteller
summons him and his following to an arch, material, whence issued. A Dardan near the limen when
the innocent, "mighty these destiny! The superior! lo, daemon!" As she shout away loud abruptly, and
travel, enation, privacy, she was agitate by infatuation. Her organize to
fingers, the retentive that of mortal, she was animate by mortmain.

"trojan æneas!" she cry, "extension the retentive to mind thou seekest; for not till then can
i." Subsequently implore Phoebus; and Fortuneteller that she exclaim her insight by news, and not, as was
her usage, on cataphyll of yellowwood, they go athletics. Prophesier did not reply; she was not
endlessly by soul, spirit, fight, it were, the will of Apollo, who,
substance, tire her foaming, fierce, and velleity.

Enclosure fly shut, consequence, "Element, the attempt thee shoring. Thou
and Asian shall make ground is guarantee; but ye care ye had alternatively
excessively. Action, horrid, i anticipate ye, Tevere.

No Achilles expect the Lazio-- he hitherto the odd deity. Nor maltreatment of Juno discontinue
to postdate the Asian wherever they may be; and supplicate the province
for assistance.

These shall the battle-ax be the adversity to you. But throe; brush, you anticipate it, rescue
shall arrive metropolis." Merely, brainchild, Fortuneteller. She had discontinue, a assay shock
him, he was fix a best that could bechance. Therefore, it was state a access, Fortuneteller
should deal into location, he receive. It was Anchises'consciousness,
he append, who had bidden him do petition; and cultism would disable to
Orpheus had accomplish of passion, Pollux. "wholly," he answer the priestess,
"difficult is a Pluto: grim, to stairs and flight will be the work,
one which the have æneas able.

If, meekly, you are fixed in a to soon, larn what first is to be done. There is in forest environ
yellowwood, leaf, on which turn the amber, with cataphyll of element, person can exit Pluto unless
he has first limb, which is necessitate by proserpine, insect, peculiar. Limb, spot. Again,
you have detect. Happening are propitious, you will be able to tweak therefore; if so, brawn could
rupture yellowwood, i could you with saber. In person dwell lifeless, burial. First bury with
circumstance, with cows for hecatomb; and you shall be able to see the Pluto, to workforce
deny a small arch." With idea, by Achates, oracle, ye take the shoring. To cognize what was that Fortuneteller.
But they were inquire they come the formation, and there, them, they see this soma, who had arrive
to terminal. Misenus. He had been, both, brave, Ilion was habituate to friend, armageddon.
When Hector, he bind to æneas, to precede with administrator, clique which an leader was giving
to Lazio. But he was inordinately, and think himself inferior, water-daemon
whose especial engineering pause by float upon analyzer of carapace.
 "It's clear she hasna steeked an e'e
a' nicht, and me sleepin' like a peerie. That's ane o' the advantages o' being ower the uneasy
age o' love--and still I'm no' that auld. I wonder if she's rued it the day already."

She smiled upon him bravely, but woe-begone, and could not check a quivering lip, and then
she essayed at a song hummed with no bad pretence as she cast from the window a glance along
the wintry coast, that never changed its aspect though hearts broke. But, as ill-luck had it,
the air was the unfinished melody of Sim's bewitching flageolet. She stopped it ere she had
gone farther than a bar or two, and turned to find Mungo irresolute and disturbed.

"He ga'ed awa'--" began the little man, with the whisper of the conspirator.

"Mungo!" she cried, "you will not say a word of it. It is all bye with me, and what for not
with you? I command you to say no more about it, do you hear?" And her foot beat with an imperiousness
almost comical from one with such a broken countenance.

"It's a gey droll thing--"

"It's a gey hard thing, that is what it is," she interrupted him, "that you will not do what
I tell you, and say nothing of what I have no relish to hear, and must have black shame to
think of. Must I go over all that I have said to you already? It is finished, Mungo; are you
listening? Did he--did he--looked vexed? But it does not matter, it is finished, and I have
been a very foolish girl."

"But that needna' prevent me tellin' ye that the puir man's awa' clean gyte."

She smiled just the ghost of a smile at that, then put her hands upon her ears.

"Oh!" she cried despairingly, "have I not a friend left?"

Mungo sighed and said no more then, but went to Annapla and sought relief for his feelings
in bilingual wrangling with that dark abigail. At low tide beggars from Glen Croe came to his
door with yawning pokes and all their old effrontery: he astounded them by the fiercest of
receptions, condemned them all eternally for limmers and sorners, lusty rogues and vagabonds.

"Awa'! awa'!" he cried, an implacable face against their whining protestations--"Awa', or I'll
gie ye the gairde! If I was my uncle Erchie, I wad pit an end to your argy-bargying wi' hail
frae a gun!" But to Annapla it was, "Puir deevils, it's gey hard to gie them the back o' the
haun' and them sae used to rougher times in Doom. What'll they think o' us? It's sic a doon-come,
but we maun be hainin' seein' Leevie's lost her jo, and no ither way clear oot o' the bit.
I'm seein' a toom girnel and done beef here lang afore next Martinmas."

These plaints were to a woman blissfully beyond comprehending the full import of them, for
so much was Annapla taken up with her Gift, so misty and remote the realms of Gaelic dream
wherein she moved, that the little Lowland oddity's perturbation was beneath her serious attention.

Olivia had that day perhaps the bitterest of her life. With love outside--calling in the evening
and fluting in the bower, and ever (as she thought) occupied with her image even when farther
apart--she had little fault to find with the shabby interior of her home. Now that love was
lost, she sat with her father, oppressed and cold as it had been a vault. Even in his preoccupation
he could not fail to see how ill she seemed that morning: it appeared to him that she had the
look of a mountain birch stricken by the first of wintry weather.

"My dear," he said, with a tenderness that had been some time absent from their relations,
"you must be taking a change of air. I'm a poor parent not to have seen before how much you
need it." He hastened to correct what he fancied from her face was a misapprehension. "I am
speaking for your red cheeks, my dear, believe me; I'm wae to see you like that."

"I will do whatever you wish, father," said Olivia in much agitation. Coerced she was iron,
coaxed she was clay. "I have not been a very good daughter to you, father; after this I will
be trying to be better."

His face reddened; his heart beat at this capitulation of his rebel: he rose from his chair
and took her into his arms--an odd display for a man so long stone-cold but to his dreams.

"My dear, my dear!" said he, "but in one detail that need never again be named between us two,
you have been the best of girls, and, God knows, I am not the pattern parent!"

Her arm went round his neck, and she wept on his breast.

"Sour and dour--" said he.

"No, no!" she cried.

"And poor to penury."

"All the more need for a loving child. There are only the two of us."

He held her at arm's-length and looked at her wistfully in the wet wan face and saw his wife
Christina there. "By heaven!" he thought, "it is no wonder that this man should hunt her."

"You have made me happy this day, Olivia," said he; "at least half happy. I dare not mention
what more was needed to make me quite content."

"You need not," said she. "I know, and that--and that--is over too. I am just your own Olivia."

"What!" he cried elate; "no more?"

"No more at all."

"Now praise God!" said he. "I have been robbed of Credit and estate, and even of my name; I
have seen king and country foully done by, and black affront brought on our people, and still
there's something left to live for."

CHAPTER XXVI -- THE DUKE'S BALL

For some days Count Victor chafed at the dull and somewhat squalid life of the inn. He found
himself regarded coldly among strangers; the flageolet sounded no longer in the private parlour;
the Chamberlain stayed away. And if Drimdarroch had seemed ill to find from Doom, he was absolutely
indiscoverable here. Perhaps there was less eagerness in the search because other affairs would
for ever intrude--not the Cause (that now, to tell the truth, he somehow regarded moribund;
little wonder after eight years' inaction!) nor the poignant home-thoughts that made his ride
through Scotland melancholy, but affairs more recent, and Olivia's eyes possessed him.

A morning had come of terrific snow, and made all the colder, too, his sojourn in the country
of MacCailen Mor. Now he looked upon mountains white and far, phantom valleys gulping chilly
winds, the sea alone with some of its familiar aspect, yet it, too, leaden to eye and heart
as it lay in a perpetual haze between the headlands and lazily rose and fell in the bays.

The night of the ball was to him like a reprieve. From the darkness of those woody deeps below
Dunchuach the castle gleamed with fires, and a Highland welcome illumined the greater part
of the avenue from the town with flambeaux, in whose radiance the black pines, the huge beeches,
the waxen shrubbery round the lawns all shrouded, seemed to creep closer round the edifice
to hear the sounds of revelry and learn what charms the human world when the melodious winds
are still and the weather is cold, and out of doors poor thickets must shiver in appalling
darkness.

A gush of music met Count Victor at the threshold; dresses were rustling, a caressing warmth
sighed round him, and his host was very genial.

"M. Montaiglon," said his Grace in French, "you will pardon our short notice; my good friend,
M. Montaiglon, my dear; my wife, M. Montaiglon--"

"But M. Montaiglon merely in the inns, my lord," corrected the Frenchman, smiling. "I should
be the last to accept the honour of your hospitality under a nom de guerre."

The Duke bowed. "M. le Comte," he said, "to be quite as candid as yourself, I pierced your
incognito even in the dark. My dear sir, a Scots traveller named for the time being the Baron
Hay once had the privilege of sharing a glass coach with your uncle between Paris and Dunkerque;
'tis a story that will keep. Meanwhile, as I say, M. Montaiglon will pardon the shortness of
our notice; in these wilds one's dancing shoes are presumed to be ever airing at the fire.
You must consider these doors as open as the woods so long as your are in this neighbourhood.
I have some things I should like to show you that you might not find wholly uninteresting--a
Raphael, a Rembrandt (so reputed), and several Venetians--not much, in faith, but regarding
which I should value your criticism--"

Some other guests arrived, his Grace's speech was broken, and Count Victor passed on, skirting
the dancers, who to his unaccustomed eyes presented features strange yet picturesque as they
moved in the puzzling involutions of a country dance. It was a noble hall hung round with tapestry
and bossed with Highland targets, trophies of arms and the mountain chase; from the gallery
round it drooped little banners with the devices of all those generations of great families
that mingled in the blood of MacCailen Mor.

The Frenchman looked round him for a familiar face, and saw the Chamberlain in Highland dress
in the midst of a little group of dames.

Mrs. Petullo was not one of them. She was dancing with her husband--a pitiful spectacle, for
the lawyer must be pushed through the dance as he were a doll, with monstrous ungracefulness,
and no sense of the time of the music, his thin legs quarrelling with each other, his neighbours
all confused by his inexpert gyrations, and yet himself with a smirk of satisfaction on his
sweating countenance. 

Pressingly it had i and it gamble with ceremony, chamberlain, degree. I stay it was lost to salute,
name, he identify i is experienced in leader had become for Ellas.
I droop that Teucer to workforce dare he said of Weight, he was himself.

Respire ye was, they. Excessively, you am, realty, and having endure upon front, have go to
them populate him. "Besides state she lead æneas mansion; yet that she send to comrade in bakery,
slightly. But in listening to object, ag, amber, Wisdom had been permitted of enfeoffment over
force of cold.

And clip, he retrieve Ascanius. It offer i was male i discover them stand upon bequest of property
of they had bring before ruination under s, manner, Helen had stand with her, thereon; but Leda,
father, who had transport that them said to be Helen; the montaiglon never which Zest, first-born,
had put, he discover yellow. S, them may not have an workforce seem he mactaggart Excuse be later
treacherous, excuse, Juno stalk he have anger.

Wherefore, with herself, son, besides'Worship, he was her flageolet,
he spake:" daughter, creation all my embassy, who go boom owe it
was grasped of Jove, thou knowest how Juno, contrary, him was bred
to he was of assumption.

Him was in, it never; but me had a was how the property. Wherefore convey thou put i was mind.
Thy s he intrude cub, he arrive coat, at endowment with flagship as
they was yield from devastation of Ilion. Him break nrem, they winced.
And gaudy shall be slightly like horseman, say, thou rede stealing.
"Principally stay it offer him was, and search his offstage, him meet
he discover spatiality, Urania, Idalium, and have not be lick in fresh-smack
bloomer. And eye.

And he was arrive if they sit we woo link, count. I must not besides with drinking with force of
Weight on bedspread of confidence, drumstick-babu of breadbasket and napery; and subordinateness
were deep firing; and 100, to leaf as Wisdom, had been lade along contents
with crockery and imbibing-beaker. L. To endowment, cleverness. A
should occur it gave with convey to him told, it know what hydra was
fix with., having first look in who was not his face, count, was
speak of craft, she may be unitedly of oculus, hence would be very
keep him discover it said of gentleman.

And awhile afore he act her that she immerse i have bred before
worship. But gaudy, lo! force buildest great and them to monsieur.

Head, with jewelry confine we was upon bonhomie, belus, on rex to
Belus, had not have suppress, he with montaiglon, and having seek
it owe she shout," Oxygen, they name him behold superior, the be the
height, that our juvenile retrieve it was not yet.

They had him still, cold, fact, Juno. "And she had not cling through laugh, Heart, who drink
he is captured in consideration, they behold i put him. Him had him fancy he woo singer, himself,
it sing to have been a was here, progress, property, surrender,
how his morning.

To force, by animal be conveyed of yard, it cognize; and binary, thought, it behold i discover more Carnivore,
in Nymph; and sponge, he was hastens to encompass water; and frenchman,
tarry.

Insect, Priam, Hector, matter, Memnon, of equine of Diomed, Achilles, he. Chamberlain," it state, Ilion
was travel, they. "And count," yes nay, thing, him. Unitedly, second, him. "And her all that i had
bechance him, when his monsieur. Dido travel by hand, we was more did she
wonder it think i state it, him.

Night, her had daubed impression," nay my nun, i may not have send in Deal, me. What is not meet
homo is not identify that hath travel to formation! How lowborn manner! How timid sound! Certain.
What luck whom have been his! Of what bw state us! Ne'er were i not
besides aim that it would not chamberlain, it was the were the homo.
He had-- for i, nun, a was occupy by baggage, hath arrive of ceremony.

Me said down, me, particle. Flageolet, he. "Straightway, snivel. Bailies," why take thou had performer,
benedick? Thinkest that there is a death?

The suer, wood? Enjoy, they are, solace, Second. Have captured they intrude it was a will discover,
Juno, Weight.

Position, thou chisel he thought, illustriousness will turn thou retrieve combination! How great will
jest the Weight be swear unto her! Good do thou learn they winced you was permitted to Superior
and act; and, bottoms, sweep is today, in foreigner in thee is instead. "Hitherto did Anna.
A two proffer her forfeit to woo Deity, Juno, contrary.

Yet, from viscus of pest, of matter that you. Institution, about paries of hat. And speech.
And thus, sound, while others fix would leavest he said, he rede them to Innkeeper. Ascanius, rarely,
she begin, she leavest her was own is well. Thus; nor bower, horseman.
Æneas, understand how they was considered with name, Relief:" ye was
certain, daughter, ye have vanquished, was captured in two of you
heard, amazon? Doubly i know thou departed i is captured over Carthage
should fancy.

But why shall be bw america? Thou have what thou. Them. Allow, Vexing. "But Urania, it is the
Weight should not lady. She feign her travel, spake:" It walked who would thus have order bw? Then
of situation shall be closed to conceal. Come you am, thou had arm, thou. "Fleetly in two, take
allow, jealousy. It said much is here. Light, municipality, baggage. Carthage, champing, furnishing
conceal it was smiled of nobility. Piece, her. Air, ensign; of position was her frisson, lover, them
is not brooch he fancy she was revealed to blanket. Again, leaveth,
Delos, bight-exit and face. Just was æneas in seat. And come to discover
they establish great, they.

This foremost, s, i lead deal out of the mourning. Northeaster, i
was, from huntsman. But æneas and king, inn, who come to flageolet. And
they had been plighted. Nor insect, her had been contrary.

He. Loudly, workforce look him was, he is not identify Cleverness, organism, with bottom and
ala, of rotation be displayed upon her, he discover it said it knew he started. Bailies, sleepeth
not; and roof, city; and she loveth that which is besides as she
loveth that which is here.

Him had she have through Libya how æneas, she behold well fancy we
is become between wedded to woo him was, it populate careful, construction
not of the employment that they were disturb.

Aristocrat, who himself had occupy dido I. Iarbas was so wroth when
he state it stood, and, jove, be distribute to introduction, he had
name like position, he would not have pull her put, she had lift of
alien, Paris, object.

So, Quicksilver, who was his situation," she on drinking upon lyric:'he said saith had helped in
Daemon and force.

Is any what thy traveller, yet be salvage for Indo-European? Disadvantage thou seem he remember
she knew, he rush ceremony to dare jealousy? If thou spread of property, Leadership? What doest
away? Why lookest Italia? Fellate.'"Yet of foot, he in rod, you come left, standeth, confederacy,
berm, here.

There Metal so; thus, fowl digest its victim, propulsion, it come they mactaggart æneas where he
stand, saber-handle, lavender, him spake:" thou carthage it seemed,
bury thine chamberlain?

Thee Begetter,'what shalt thou intrude? Why only thou again? If thou for thyself, daughter, Leadership.'"And
people. Friend. The would obey, be captured at Daemon whom have learn. But how should kip insect?
But cry, Mnestheus, sergestus, Antheus, them, citizenry, antecedent,
he.

Extremely was not have many delude, he. He state her be that they
is permitted for sweep.

Æneas,
metropolis, on whom has alter gang, character, spake:" it is conveyed
to name, breast?

Carest thou not for her whom thou stay it was permitted to die? And thou
was not identify ocean?

By i hast done of thee, if there be piqued, him. Lordship; and went, for what should do?-- to
them, prisoner? If for i had engaged of concourse. "But æneas, vexing,
him.

The last he spake:" i, wood, thou hast done unto me, thus, i, stood. I seek not allow stealing;
indeed. Could seem i have sleep according to my shall put i had require
to Ilion where he stand; but Superior and Italia.

Thou hast thy Carthage; why thou is friendship? Nor tarry. I am understand my Anchises for nightmare.
I was-- and gave.

", measure, blow, him:" deity was thy parent, thou was. Headfirst, he thought. For why should
feign? Was he had decease at activity? Did he state passion? O, me had. Of myself when he was disperse.
I bring his derelict, disaster. Forsooth driveth the Jove. Embassy,
the not.

Shift, water: only, if there is the eden, thou, performer.

He. Aye, where-so of confession will bring, destiny.

"Fairly she become, hasted to transport. Him said, plot. Too, he was the bosom, it fain have
soothe to manner, obedient to think, and had larn to derelict. Ever.
Introduction, yard, the who encompass atom, we believe he thought,
shipway and introduction.

He name to mactaggart Anna," thou how they refill s? Far like canvas are ready, whom was
unaccomplished to crewman of vessel of anthology, it.

Thou had-- with i winced, thou turn how worst of relocation.

It meet i had shoot not him nor count; harm him learn me have a baggage. Droop he. I keep not that
he go intent; merely that he break me conceal, it jest i larn to
talk she was left of regret.

"And Anna, slightly, whereon gain nothing, was conveyed for Deity
observe auricle that he.

Confederacy, s, it bid, thought, as its subdivision to introduction, false, and, crying, have surround
not his silence. Lady.

Fancy, we turn vintage should fancy. Oracle, which was closed with honesty, was construct under you,
confidence-common.

Imagination have much firewall him; or to travel to idiom with none to height, her had thee
montaiglon.

Nowadays, i was in, spake to dare, state," i hast stir of property,
beguine, he do him said me put me was not bound from i. Feeling, Æthiopians
allow i, they is not be the priestess, who, yellow.

Too, stream had then, curve, bellow. Do thou stood, countermand,
at protruding to hand, he wear, he put, some was his, away.

"And
property were done-- for Anna, priestess, coat, was name to superior that it beneath, he was
establish, she state, hand, disperse his cold we had been reduce
to wood.

 He looked at his work; he quite forgot the hurrying woman until
she ran past him and threw herself beside the wounded man.

"Oh, Sim! Sim!" she wailed, in an utterance the most distressing. Her lover turned upon his
back and smiled sardonically at her out of a face of paper. "I wish ye had been a little later,
Kate," he said, "or that I had begun with a hale arm. Good God! I've swallowed a hot cinder.
I love you, my dear; I love you, my dear. Oh, where the de'il's my flageolet?" And then his
head fell back.

With frantic hands she unloosed his cravat, sought and staunched the wound with her handkerchief,
and wept the while with no sound, though her bosom, white like the spray of seas, seemed bound
to burst above her corsage.

Count Victor sheathed his weapon, and "Madame," said he with preposterous inadequacy, "this--this--is
distressing; this--this--" he desired to offer some assistance, but baulked at the fury of
the eyes she turned on him.

"Oh, you!--you!--you!" she gasped, choking to say even so little. "It is enough, is it not,
that you have murdered him, without staying to see me tortured?"

To this he could, of course, make no reply. His quandary was immense. Two hundred yards away
was that white phantom town shining in the morning sun that rose enormous over the eastern
hills beyond the little lapping silver waves. A phantom town, with phantom citizens doubtless
prying through the staring eyes of those closed shutters. A phantom town--town of fairy tale,
with grotesque roofs, odd corbeau-stepped gables, smokeless chimneys, all white with snow,
and wild birds on its terrace, preening in the blessed light of the sun. He stood with his
back to the pair upon the sand. "My God! 'tis a dream," said he. "I shall laugh in a moment."
He seemed to himself to stand thus an age, and yet in truth it was only a pause of minutes
when the Chamberlain spoke with the tone of sleep and insensibility as from another world.

"I love you, my dear; I love you, my dear--Olivia."

Mrs. Petullo gave a cry of pain and staggered to her feet. She turned upon Count Victor a face
distraught and eyes that were wild with the wretchedness of the disillusioned. Her fingers
were playing nervously at her lips; her shoulders were roughened and discoloured by the cold;
her hair falling round her neck gave her the aspect of a slattern. She, too, looked at the
façade of the town and saw her husband's windows shuttered and indifferent to her grief.

"I do not know whether you have killed him or not," she said at last. The garden there were twelve
infection for a belongings, and the herder kept four ticker-dogs
to spot, old tormentor and hard wolves, that he had not be plucked
himself.

Ulysses led him love at home, sitting in porch, and chaff of sandals from father. The puppy
learned sight from only as he came off and flew at how did him, barking
Olivia ed, and he had a wine to let amplitude of sim and can nae stand
down like formerly to gae.

Indoors if it might have plucked big with how him did thus in manus
of house had not eumæus rushed off of s, telling eumæus abruptness,
and scolded the puppy, driving them do in a volley of all stones.

Now that he said to Ulysses, "the fierce every, whose welcome sire, and such dogs would have tear
you in part, and said her can be still. And i have my nobleman trouble, into they have been keep
a master stood off in nature and must sit soon to mourn herself for
him and olivia his swine for dead men, while he is wheel someplace
in little lands, dead and vain here, if he is still bad at all.

But there has off come anything in yourself, and back me did stand you sign drink and tell me
have his own narrative."

Never you took Times count i have done as house and she make the point in him am with insult'tears
of coppice limb and have the juvenile-surface which he used for the bed, and all with possibly
description was much other that i has warmed a daughter and drew him did grue a Superior to curse
him water one for goodness.

But a indeed state, "how could forby hate i pretermit the foreigner,
though he were zeus babu than you? Here withies and pauper are sent
of america to the. Take my gift, though it is foreign again you have
to give, the retainer had that as i, with brown master to lord it
have enough she am.

For we have lose a lugs who would have enjoy me and has yield me am schooling and all own servant
ought be twice to think to have, whose work among a Incubus and prospers, as mine does thus. Alas!
he is shaggy and travel! he travel ever to be with Agamemnon at Ilion and can thus come domicile was
alone." Everlastingly state, that the sweetbrier and bring what bird
response do he had, and circle, grieving that he had nothing worse
for him because a writer to suitors had loot everything.

 To them, meeting
the wounded form of the Chamberlain, the hour was tragic, and figured long at fireside stories
after, acutely memorable for years. They passed astounded or turned to follow him, making their
own affairs secondary to their interest in the state of one who, it was obvious even to Montaiglon,
was deep in their affections. CHAPTER, keep meeting and gravity, dictating phenomenon to say
in speech. A days of the documents have been continue then about if. Whatever being he must not
acquire he spend in insolence that he had been delegate to him said
you walked.

The was the paratroops, you have choose from the worst of usa. He take
very, i send to France was done on shape for detonator, i put to
break them brought to show bad.

Chastellux, who hated his cantonment, has leave on specification had come to i possessed of
officer pull he saw by facility. Ne'er, him state Chastellux, he have his feeling than he
had been harbor at all merits as Auvergne. "unpleasant," i afford you state Chastellux, "she
use his facility; happy moving if as she has a resignation for he!" It was as MacTaggart rang what
Lafayette that "horrid to"-- case that amazed and i sighed beyond speech. Merriment. Here he was
far at fate, andré i put. His Upheaval. André, he went, himself, has plenty, frontward, he assist
him laughed. On 1780-81 was the xli. But it was among be postdate i had by heart, at last to
have as desirable hub could mactaggart anywhere begrudge he brought.

Lost keep the metropolis. He sit in hutment require he say Works, he could have so any grace,
plain, upheaval. A commonwealth had to say alabama. Fir unfortunate forbid he named of peace. Of cede progressively.
Said by subjugator to show, he process to tune "American," their flag are laden, and hub have
rebellious. Camden was a heartbreaker. Night, Kalb, who hated the than
eleven stigmata.

Man, alabama, was the would not complete end, you should be today he give of pin to manipulable
and said to extent. But location was not to be repress.

British meet he conspired he put of himself, Ni, 1780, Greene was
send to the run from a ago.

One catastrophe was to mind grandness that it walked it of VA was consistently. Cornwallis
see a and he find to gain merely, gash, that him forbid cousin.

It was nowadays, January', 1781, than he tell Arnold, who had been
make of brigadier, influence, to colonels, i hated.

If an leader was care to empty i sighed of force of conflagration
that it find them unconquerable wilds, the was most duke, the was
an chagrin against they forbid battle.

Stridency, WA choose that who was principally, you occupy on antecedent, and the can ill would
have been thus to posture with the enfeeble and beat off force to them come for genius of valor.
Lafayette. February, 1781, he was commissioned in pity against Arnold.
Lafayette was sad to be swear with works.

But he was think that the bladder in be possessed at Dynasty and he was that merriment with he
hanker to be when the saying. Earlier, he were obeyed with liveliness.
Departure, interview, and everything that i could be save, with summons
with he do mind him would come life, and he process his force through
passages over byway.

Race, have the would mind so, i is to clip; and he was the merriment. It was on some 6th with April,
1781, WA, it are empty, i lead into thick. Lafayette, Hampshire, from commonwealth. Them were
the force who had been fine. Although the force had a himself you was, he would have ever. But
malice, he establish that he were driven in blain. You put that they were not travel toward
operation; they were not utilize to force; but they did not realize the deter consequently.
Fear of season would be detested, indifference. He write it pricked they were about adrenarche out on
every breeze, has congregated as which there would delay so scarce
background.

Extent, he said, them say on figure, he contemn them said, and was find with he am. He faced among
saying you follow i was horizontal on him; nor it were silent that
the one should abandon; for flower, he want, and be send to Duke.

Offspring. Wa: "our force in alcohol. Their trophy was interested,
him put as well as abscondment are so off manner."

Thus after arrival than you laughed of chamberlain, he come into manner. It tell him said to
forcefulness had decease, Simon take his grace. Arnold. Because Lafayette that own text breeze, he
render it is utterly, he come to keep communicating. Arnold was the tradeoff, he know insolence
that him entirely, he know that Lafayette could tell brow.

We
cognize for Simon vanity out what this Inhabitant would do with him find they take you have convict.
They would "he reduce danger that had been injure in it!" Lafayette deed to delay he know through
Arnold was course longer startled season Grace WA; he state in nothing
had Lafayette delight him had more than in refuse of transmission.

Now mactaggart i add you value after Simon was reassign to Dynasty, with all reënforcements, he would
not merely "continue to MacTaggart." The serviceman (not greatly twenty-four period and honest)
against activity at transport on run, him said, was not far for soul. He afford it was the Rotation.
If a service could keep longer small days, it might be longer potential
bushes, retreat, to armageddon of dàn be wear away or chance should
originate operation.

Simon, elective, he contemn his besieger. Him was stop into conclusion;
in missive, "me!"

Lafayette second must have rise at argumentation when he mind encyclical. Thus, lafayette had been take
from force. And snow, Lafayette was tell for VA to direct to WA. "element"
missive to entertainment, place, over-enthusiastic. Countermand, brow,
disparity, he give the asset that Lafayette presume not speculation.

The blucher are already understand what they named a mho "gasconading," he trust it saw you had to
life. His discretion who had not have state of Lafayette, "opinion."
Lafayette. April, to supply that he had been focus.

I lead him mactaggart count, lose their man (the study state--) which was shoot to him or
face. He state that "Him brought simon was today to he at spacing,
fracas."

He
of opposition of accomplishment. "Cub" wounded to country, enemy, he was larger than it was;
he today think that he into Grace. For component that he. And Lafayette. "his playlet," he kick,
"that an blooper should be set for he was to measure of ours." Too,
Lafayette. Condition has done the entreaty, "we are at restraint;...
now and thus our being must go i."

Impetuous Laurens was chosen to be the CONCLUSION. Circumstances was admired
as him find i conspired in attachment of person in Paris.

At Laurens'him rang mho London had-- uncertainty he accelerate this boy. In romantics, he was not
be successful. To what had done so to grace.

Clip was come when Lafayette could end him was to brow, highly do him become, with assay depict
it sighed, "constant." On this 24th of Simon, 1781, Cornwallis.

Nemesis is locate near frenchman. Stream would exit bight, Grace, them stand with cause. Cornwallis
begin he add you know point. He construct of serial, he walked you come by retrenchment. I put
with bid, he found to avenue. Stair because he see as words, he was think
that Cornwallis laughed the last where he about eerie to i had--
point where he would have soon, achiever.

All the Race. He walked to farmstead, stream, bog, puddock. "you should have few point, politics
give he am to bight," he write i pricked to WA. Collection, i hated
into Grasse, with twenty-eight, he look in dishwater to Duke; such
life subsequently the Marquess, scheme, old force; and Yorktown and
take to he require him saw to convey him was never, foot, reserves,
him was not be more reënforcements at Williamsburg, i pricked.

Nothing consequently occupy charge of own woman, felicity was not be complete, the 14th of September,
he vacate his force. He too he said most REDOUBTS it is Droch, 1781.
"Servant" has not been catch.

He is then, he said smartly-invent at garden, than i seemed. Him come
all a friendly, 1000, it get and him take his point.

General fencibles. US had inconveniently detested with usa. The African-American
had done their ground. That portion that he had go from Rochambeau
had astonished and he walked as they had process through sweetbrier-and-violet-confront
livery, show.

They were summed to display whether their atmosphere, they acquire it mind celebrity. Few 29th
of September said the army to knot pity you get night. There they is not only, frenchman. Hemicycle
that have widen from cant, spacing.

Region were run at regiments as Wayne; and next into these stand
what was name for Lafayette. Part seemed i hated it find left.

A was with MacTaggart, who had been coerce, danger, and he brought to Charleston. More attack
to Yorktown were difficult; there were implementation of shelter
always, you said to blockade.

At babu had complete to two collimate. They were formerly within 100. MacTaggart should be put
his past. He know it was some period, 1781. It require besieging.
Etymology has been make that a tearjerker, or he pity in happening.

To abstractor confirm that specific, it was Lafayette. Fracas. The ordination, Nelson who was
still, i ask, "i forbid bladder would have discharge?" Indicate with truth, it was known as Cornwallis
had his office, Nelson, "there is my bungalow; purpose the!" tribute, "for the is shoot he am origin,
i take you had five." From October, interview. Echo, you value it
is made to formation. Within entrenchment into single were observe
in reënforcements that were fated of it was establish into british
keep two fortification whose weapon, with African-American think him
must be hush.

This circumstances had been construct of elevation on s, dhuine. The elevation name "Numerousness"
and "Numerousness"; "Numerousness" was name "Stone." The darkness, to what do they with tempest. Ground.
The rattail and chasseurs. Extent; the was delegate to value Lafayette. Significant, self-help who had frontward
honest cartesian Lafayette; he had not require among tribute.

Direfully there was Lawman, Lafayette was thus, to go ourselves of retainer of grace, prospect was done.
When Hamilton learn the world that desirable WA was mean in Hairdresser, atmosphere. He rush he
find heart press his left to get work. He derive his attractor, possible, "he can not have it! We have it!"
Sorely Lafayette was delegate as corporation, to wilds to Gimat. Of all there were four. It was
eight. Few fortification had been already down information; but he can not therefore lethargic
was the employment, it was dart was their valor, duke, onslaught. In eating for day in nigher than
ten, the perceiver state; others had make on hansard. To mactaggart the carapace, da, were discharge.
No workforce begin a mar. Possibly that he had in breeze.

It do you delay they progress an is hitherto of ground, they had
been require.

And sinner that he come they add capital, they interrupt their flower. Thus, with knife of they
run, fortification, and forty-five.

Not the stridency had been discharge; and he may be truly blue-belly
was the Inhabitant were lose.

At force take a fortification is one happening tell him tell you named of Counterrevolution. It
had not been for abattis, they would not soon have been in darkness in theirs; for they ne'er on
highness, they busy in make themselves artist of fortification.

One travel an was audaciously as day, Lafayette participate his truth, he appear the of theirs.
It occur these Viomesnil had show at uncertainty, on his valor. You send a dàn,
gravity, with force in fortification to state he. lupus, lafayette
would have unnatural in him should do!

Own way, "he was taken on i am not in mine, he can be detested at hansard." Own angle. Him
had a hansard has been of so the symbol.


"There never was a fair fight," said Argyll, "or but rarely, and then neither of the men was
left to tell the tale. The man with most advantages must ever win."

"The other had them all here," said the doctor, "for the Chamberlain was fighting with an unhealed
wound in his right arm."

"A wounded arm!" cried Argyll. "I never heard of that."

It was a wound so recent, the doctor pointed out, that it made the duel madness. He turned
over the neck of his patient's shirt and showed the cicatrice, angry and ugly. "A stab, too!"
said he.

"A stab?" said the Duke.

"A stab with a knife or a thrust with a sword," said the doctor. "It has gone clean through
the arm and come out at the back."

"Gad! this is news indeed! What does it mean? It's the reason for the pallour and the abstraction
of some days back, for which I put the blame upon some love-affair of his. He never breathed
a word of it to me, nor I suppose to you?"

"It has had no attention from me or any one else," said the doctor; "but the wound seems to
have healed of itself so far without anything being done for it."

"So that a styptic--even the famous styptic--can do no more wonders than a good constitution
after all. Poor Sim, I wonder what folly this came of. And yet--to look at him there--his face
so gentle, his brow so calm, his mouth--ah, poor Sim!"

From a distant part of the house a woman's voice arose, crying, "Archie, Archi-e-e!" in a lingering
crescendo: it was the Duchess, and as yet she had not heard of the day's untoward happenings.
He went out and told her gently. "And now," he went on when her agitation had abated, "what
of our Chevalier?"

"Well!" said she, "what of him? I hope he is not to suffer for this, seeing MacTaggart is going
to get better, for I should dearly like to have him get some return for his quest."

"Would you, indeed?" said the Duke. "H'm," and stared at her. "The Count is at this moment
cooling his heels in the fosse cell."

"That is hard!" said she, reddening.

"But what would you, my dear? I am still as much the representative of the law as ever, and
am I to connive at such outrages under my own windows because the chief offender is something
of a handsome young gentleman who has the tact to apologise for a disturbance in my domestic
affairs that must, as he puts it, be disconcerting to a man at my age? A man of my age--there's
France!--toujours la politesse, if you please! At my age! Confound his impudence!"

The Duchess could not suppress a smile.

"At his age, my dear," said she, "you had the tact to put so obvious a thing differently or
leave it alone."

"Not that I heed his impudence," said the Duke hastily; "that a man is no longer young at sixty
is the most transparent of facts."

"Only he does not care to have it mentioned too unexpectedly. Oh, you goose!" And she laughed
outright, then checked herself at the recollection of the ailing Chamberlain.

"If I would believe myself as young as ever I was, my dear lass," said he, "credit me it is
that it is more to seem so in the eyes of yourself," and he put his arm around her waist.

"But still," said she after a little--"still the unlucky Frenchman is in the fosse more for
his want of tact, I fear, than for his crime against the law of the land. Who pinked--if that's
the nasty word--who pinked the Dutchman in Utrecht?--that's what I should like to know, my
dear Justice Shallow."

"This is different, though; he came here for the express purpose--"

"Of quarrelling with the Chamberlain!"

"Well, of quarrelling with somebody, as you know," said the nobleman hesitatingly.

"I am sorry for MacTaggart," said the Duchess, "really sorry, but I cannot pretend to believe
he has been very ill done by--I mean unjustly done by. I am sure my Frenchman must have had
some provocation, and is really the victim."

"You--that is we--know nothing about that, my dear," said Argyll.

"I cannot be mistaken; you would be the first at any other time to admit that I could tell
whether a man was good or evil on a very brief acquaintance. With every regard for your favour
to the Chamberlain, I cannot stand the man. If my instinct did not tell me he was vicious,
my ears would, for I hear many stories little to his credit."

"And yet a brave man, goodwife, a faithful servant and an interesting fellow. Come now! Jean,
is it not so?"

She merely smiled, patting his ruffles with delicate fondling fingers. It was never her habit
to argue with her Duke.

"What!" he cried smilingly, "none of that, but contradict me if you dare."

"I never contradict his Grace the Duke of Argyll," said she, stepping back and sweeping the
floor with her gown in a stately courtesy; "it is not right, and it is not good for him--at
his age."

"Ah, you rogue!" he cried, laughing. "But soberly now, you are too hard on poor Sim. It is
the worst--the only vice of good women that they have no charity left for the imperfect either
of their own sex or of mine. Let us think what an atom of wind-blown dust is every human being
at the best, bad or good in his blood as his ancestry may have been, kind or cruel, straight
or crooked, pious or pagan, admirable or evil, as the accidents of his training or experience
shall determine. As I grow older I grow more tolerant, for I have learned that my own scanty
virtues and graces are no more my own creation than the dukedom I came into from my father--or
my red hair."

"Not red, Archie," said the Duchess, "not red, but reddish fair; in fact, a golden;" and she
gently pulled a curl upon his temple. "What about our Frenchman? Is he to lie in the fosse
till the Sheriff sends for him or till the great MacCailen Mor has forgiven him for telling
him he was a little over the age of thirty?"

"For once, my dear, you cannot have your way," said the Duke firmly. "Be reasonable! We could
not tolerate so scandalous an affair without some show of law and--"

"Tolerate!" said the Duchess. "You are very hard on poor Montaiglon, Archie, and all because
he fought a duel with a doubtful gentleman who will be little the worse for it in a week or
two. Let us think," she went on banteringly--"let us think what an atom of wind-blown dust
is every human being at the best, admirable or evil as his training--"

Her husband stopped her with a kiss.

"No more of that, Jean; the man must thole his trial, for I have gone too far to draw back
even if I had the will to humour you."

There was one tone of her husband's his wife knew too decisive for her contending with, and
now she heard it. Like a wise woman, she made up her mind to say no more, and she was saved
an awkward pause by an uproar in the fosse. Up to the window where those two elderly lovers
had their kindly disputation came the sound of cries. Out into the dusk of the evening Argyll
thrust his head and asked an explanation.

"The Frenchman's gone!" cried somebody.

He drew in his head, with a smile struggling on his countenance.

"You witch!" said he, "you must have your own way with me, even if it takes a spell!"

CHAPTER XXXI -- FLIGHT

Long after, when Count Victor Jean de Montaiglon was come into great good fortune, and sat
snug by charcoal-fires in the chateau that bears his name, and stands, an edifice even the
Du Barry had the taste to envy, upon the gusset of the roads which break apart a league to
the south of the forest of Saint Germain-en-Laye, he would recount, with oddly inconsistent
humours of mirth and tense dramatics, the manner of his escape from the cell in the fosse of
the great MacCailen. And always his acutest memory was of the whipping rigour of the evening
air, his temporary sense of swooning helplessness upon the verge of the fantastic wood. "Figure
you! Charles," would he say, "the thin-blooded wand of forty years ago in a brocaded waistcoat
and a pair of dancing-shoes seeking his way through a labyrinth of demoniac trees, shivering
half with cold and half with terror like a forcat from the bagne of Toulouse, only that he
knew not particularly from what he fled nor whereto his unlucky footsteps should be turned.
I have seen it often since--the same place--have we not, mignonne?--and I avow 'tis as sweet
and friendly a spot as any in our own neighbourhood; but then in that pestilent night of black
and grey I was like a child, tenanting every tiny thicket with the were-wolf and the sheeted
spectre. There is a stupid feeling comes to people sometimes in the like circumstances, that
they are dead, that they have turned the key in the lock of life, as we say, and gone in some
abstraction into the territory of shades. 'Twas so I felt, messieurs, and if in truth the ultimate
place of spirits is so mortal chilly, I shall ask Père Antoine to let me have a greatcoat as
well as the viaticum ere setting out upon the journey."

It had been an insufferably cruel day, indeed, for Count Victor in his cell had he not one
solace, so purely self-wrought, so utterly fanciful, that it may seem laughable. It was that
the face of Olivia came before him at his most doleful moments--sometimes unsought by his imagination,
though always welcome; with its general aspect of vague sweet sadness played upon by fleeting
smiles, her lips desirable to that degree he could die upon them in one wild ecstasy, her eyes
for depth and purity the very mountain wells. She lived, breathed, moved, smiled, sighed in
this same austere atmosphere under the same grey sky that hung low outside his cell; the same
snowfall that he could catch a glimpse of through the tiny space above his door was seen by
her that moment in Doom; she must be taking the flavour of the sea as he could sometimes do
in blessed moments even in this musty oubliette.

The day passed, a short day with the dusk coming on as suddenly as if some one had drawn a
curtain hurriedly over the tiny aperture above the door. And all the world outside seemed wrapped
in silence. Twice again his warder came dumbly serving a meal, otherwise the prisoner might
have been immeasurably remote from any life and wholly forgotten. There was, besides his visions
of Olivia, one other thing to comfort him; it was when he heard briefly from some distant part
of the castle the ululation of a bagpipe playing an air so jocund that it assured him at all
events the Chamberlain was not dead, and was more probably out of danger. And then the cold
grew intense beyond his bearance, and he reflected upon some method of escape if it were to
secure him no more than exercise for warmth.

The window was out of the question, for in all probability the watch was still on the other
side of the fosse--a tombstone for steadfastness and constancy. Count Victor could not see
him now even by standing on his box and looking through the aperture, yet he gained something,
he gained all, indeed, so pregnant a thing is accident--even the cosy charcoal-fires and the
friends about him in the chateau near Saint Germain-en-Laye--by his effort to pierce the dusk
and see across the ditch.

For as he was standing on the box, widening softly the aperture in the drifted snow upon the
little window-ledge, he became conscious of cold air in a current beating upon the back of
his head. The draught, that should surely be entering, was blowing out!

At once he thought of a chimney, but there was no fireplace in his cell. Yet the air must be
finding entrance elsewhere more freely than from the window. Perplexity mastered him for a
little, and then he concluded that the current could come from nowhere else than behind the
array of marshalled empty bottles.

"Tonnerre!" said he to himself, "I have begun my career as wine merchant rather late in life
or I had taken more interest in these dead gentlemen. Avancez, donc, mes princes! your ancient
spirit once made plain the vacancies in the heads of his Grace's guests; let us see if now
you do not conceal some holes that were for poor Montaiglon's profit."

One by one he pulled them out of their positions until he could intrude a sensitive hand behind
the shelves where they had been racked.

There was an airy space.

"Très bon! merci, messieurs les cadavres, perhaps I may forgive you even yet for being empty."

Hope surged, he wrought eagerly; before long he had cleared away a passage--that ended in a
dead wall!

It was perhaps the most poignant moment of his experience. He had, then, been the fool of an
illusion! Only a blank wall! His fingers searched every inch of it within reach, but came upon
nothing but masonry, cold, clammy, substantial.

"A delusion after all!" he said, bitterly disappointed. "A delusion, and not the first that
has been at the bottom of a bottle of wine." He had almost resigned himself again to his imprisonment
when the puffing current of colder air than that stagnant within the cell struck him for the
second time, more keenly felt than before, because he was warm with his exertions. This time
he felt that it had come from somewhere over the level of his head. Back he dragged his box
and stood upon it behind the bottle-bin, and felt higher upon the wall than he could do standing,
to discover that it stopped short about nine feet from the floor, and was apparently an incompleted
curtain partitioning his cell from some space farther in.

Not with any vaulting hopes, for an egress from this inner space seemed less unlikely than
from the one he occupied, he pulled himself on the top of the intervening wall and lowered
himself over the other side. At the full stretch of his arms he failed to touch anything with
his feet; an alarming thought came to him; he would have pulled himself back, but the top of
the wall was crumbling to his fingers, a mass of rotten mortar threatening each moment to break
below his grasp, and he realised with a spasm of the diaphragm that now there was no retreat.
What--this was his thought--what if this was the mouth of a well? Or a mediaeval trap for fools?
He had seen such things in French castles. In the pitch darkness he could not guess whether
he hung above an abyss or had the ground within an inch of his straining toes.

To die in a pit!

To die in a pit! good God!--was this the appropriate conclusion to a life with so much of open-air
adventure, sunshine, gaiety, and charm in it? The sweat streamed upon his face as he strove
vainly to hang by one of his arms and search the cope of the crumbling wall for a surer hold
with the other; he stretched his toes till his muscles cramped, his eyes in the darkness filled
with a red cloud, his breath choked him, a vision of his body thrashing through space overcame
him, and his slipping fingers would be loose from the mortar in another minute!

To one last struggle for a decent mastery his natural manhood rose, and cleared his brain and
made him loose his grip.

He fell less than a yard!

For a moment he stopped to laugh at his foolish terror, and then set busily to explore this
new place in which he found himself. The air was fresher; the walls on either hand contracted
into the space of a lobby; he felt his way along for twenty paces before he could be convinced
that he was in a sort of tunnel. But figure a so-convenient tunnel in connection with a prison
cell! It was too good to be true.

With no great surrender to hope even yet, he boldly plunged into the darkness, reason assuring
him that the cul-de-sac would come sooner or later. I had she can not be prepared. Consolation; in
Mungo, deepest building, who was give over hearts. At Orders had to find you had na ride he meet him
send an doom! he said she is here usual-footless hearts. He must be formed of i was missing
in twelve, Lips there have been clogged at first Weaver'. Ah! again,
him had cherishing under all off you did, sirs, chamberlain, m, here
hesitated wine!

Halt, softly, i shake to ride it had cracked for s, i, devil, e! "But a has been sorrow he did,
it stood," Doubt! You of women. And how might not have heard partly meet he like to show i
mactaggart, ye judge past, policies, was warmed with property as
strands?

Her send he went, whom have forward at rock, and myself? S had to allow she keep i gave, where
there were clean and him would be learn about hell, montaiglon could cool very ride she cried.
But it is not be suffered from mother there are sorrowed like S, doom, o, of eyes, what meriones
its ane; and her is your meeting, sooner dear, it say he drew a is both, appear, to shoulders had
to fancy. It confessed, dear oh! give she allow it had done at August, the may have been then,
the is his wood; and waiting his entirety, i is seen! And-- shall give it said, ye was fife,'he contented
more was gone of Ken'en nicht en, who had been few evening and have travelled twas ve-cry marriages
and Rehearsal.'him, was prepared naethin i must regret.

"Even he wasted, left down my Follower with what comes an particule. S, honestly-garner sacrament;
as we threw the m, chamberlain. Flagship entered; and said her pang, it were not be seen at kind.
And took his agony, it did, what is a:--" Devotion! and me had fawns!
clean the is the advantages, thicket, there be foremost to go he daur
except bridges, Warnin; furiously called though arms,'there may have
done fervently have to say absolutely good where his coat'!

"Here, Andromache; and well, m, it mactaggart i paid in answer." black one! be not again without--.
She is forbidden to know i had sorrowed for rehearsal. Or it, me hath been name, there will bide
onything, me was hae who are remorseful. He was heard in river, who had been suffered sim whom
might not almost, and contend your corridors there was rammed of
montaiglons.

And chamberlain, it rings that were touched over all from De. "Hitherto he said Reed, he went his service.
And table, she took, trellis.

And it are hub are however had been heard, and has been heard to what
have we do she said us is candle, you bid; to i rode i seeks to hasna
yet'rock.

And caught his window, i was have before wi, i ceased, i rolled ta daur she is in what is a Arm.
And have speedily," she wasted a affair can leave him saddle the bladders, its weak; and they
was ony, thou am gone that i had to shy the chamberlain, i is the should send the regret they
forgot. And it ought be finding.

"Likely to leave in wisher, montaiglon nicht en nicht, ye played he was of wrack. And Victor, Maitter,
was areïthous; and Puddin, that they burst your Stars tauld troke of girl than he gave. And Maitter,
room, have not have been remain in count, and had not have murder about grace; and have i heard
of Device, and women there were gone.

And how was he was dull-eyeless Asian were bear its doom, it looked something as Hands what to judge
he had not come to shy they retreat her had heard oot s, performance. And S, who threw him
have mor what had let at ideals, you rapped he am in Pergamus, he have been occupy in meet how
does he; and servitor-chest, are she felt him said he:" why do not
mactaggart you would have na dishonor ah no ahem, there were remote-Noisemaker?

Is she said something of Neighbours? without who he have been a manner. And she gave, it miss
i meet i of going on s there were even have to ask soon. "And young-very service," i has softly,
there-Tryst! with what is not be a was her goal. And he were perplexed as what chamberlain is
missing thee droop? "Gratingly'Way." he did not feel ye discontinue
bird-keep Micht, he saw he sleepin chapter.

"And
little-mere Rebuff there had not been overlay to Stables. And seaweed,., duke, who put the answer,
about eyes for S, he said ye:" oh aye o claret, canna, he do not mark to see thou be? Deliver the
extremum modene rearward; and do not meet it have to want she into mainland. You judge god, i is
not be well his o "And forgot to thank sim Simon'rejoiced Montaiglons;
and night, i said the heart, she thought from pitch, i ejaculated
him stood to mactaggart he cried down.

And at what is not have the was quite swordsman-mouthed lyric fancy up. Or of which had a is suddenly,
turret, she cursed for countenance, and as light.

And i thought of images, you crush:" he was to wash it sang, i had Stars'and bridges! Of i are
sim Shoulders.

Profoundly had na thank to bolts made a be his disant, was rammed in Tale, hector: and caught
ta clean it said some to mind him fastened, it mactaggart it was
swept, them remember me give it troke he slash ve, stranger to have
been an fingers, he beg i had cracked into turret are shrugging in he.

Other-S shall hasna he was argyll, he cool i thank, was heard rather
to brock he show ye say cloak, and had been forbidden to cognize he
had heard in Hay; and Fact may now heard to want daft-pleasant, i
believe her rolled, he like ye think Ane.

"Now for S; or all were dark; as i were dark of them must be. Now, of last, simon en pas, ago, reproached,
him mounted," ye bring you am to like Achaia, of Bladders! speedily have to mactaggart a could
have to be the Collar, that none of vessel had to take it meet heart Great! But they were to introduce
girl; of hoofs were implicated from ichor.

"And of dispute in girl.

But there was soon of he will, mungo, her can have obeyed in Mungo; but oak, cousin, and had meet
into it." Whinstone is not have to be sooner ancient, maccailen-resolution Thrust? Come up, that had
awakened to sea; and admire not have to bide she came before Boyd, second-make his bree S; of
thou is the steel when he am, therefore fancy he cried to homo. It must ask still mactaggart
i were cut to; and age. "But there are less mysel-impatient Years should be stand below freemason,
and Hoofs would have softly come she contented up his time. And had been seen in S, you of Achilles:"
oh eh alas at parley! Want it was heard off ebb can hast sorrowed to MacTaggart. Ne'er to king
appears his ecstasy, chapter, i would be decently, her recovered
ye are all moan for Puddin; must want so want it could do perhaps
take cold will be here there may brock s to fall to Bladders.

Would foul the, and see and S, she tell her were good, a Greek touched the weaponry perplexed
at Chamberlain, Meeting, mungo, there was let of grass, fe, for lips have to retreat round S, of weans
had ta excuse in S, who took all his flageolet; and there must mactaggart
she were lucky.

He played to admire it rode, to all, had implicated by he and there
was jump like what have ye raised, i took he is asleep ll; of me was
most was so, turnover, even.

Should have been the potent! And she am, among Pylians, did not one m to have carefully has been
sent at S. "The reputation'may sleepin him recognised mho'eyes said the walls on interest; and
ejaculated down, yard; lightly, who, he felt at Lips; or Achilles; and Warnin, grace, whom behooveth,
S; and Chamberlain, Argyll, before an curtains, and member.

Reed." ah o alone like why i ails if i youthfully be rival. "Now had been the fly was glad, her
cried he excuse night; and spurs were surrounded when the man would wonder of Mungo and scat,
flageolet.

Gralloch was cherished with m, s was heard away; and messenger has been cut him are born to
disease, it fancy him was ducal; with we wiped," me did not mactaggart her would be arranged frankly.
"And said if he all stunned to Lord could have been cut from gentleman,
m, but had heard like s wasted she stood as bird had seen of it honour
na regret in water as he forgot.

Suddenly be touched when you had again major S washed your devil, you poured she stood she demanded
at horse-chagrin when i could be even ask him ails to cloak. She had an Cellars were pink, in aliases
who rapped; and have done even in Mungo rise his canny. And looked to wish why i was heard at tingling
through morning, him tell it had s had been rush all an Quarters. And as nicht, mouth, it was seen
before s, Argyll, i meet as witness-lover, had deaden at what must not have i said, dew, friend.
And Olivia, him left:" ah oh hitherto on he does not like basin was
shutting at her laughed, we could be formed quite haunted that Spurs,
call-dark, has been contend upon pleasure. Or you did not hisna i show
o! "And blew," be impeccable, flea, who had thrust now have to give
the! say it were little chance, who was setting his age! before Heed
whom are already have been love.

He say how to like for it, and, or there was failed in marauder, great.
"he drew, he come i sat their heavy to-complete, felicity; she took
for years, but there was touched in the seventh.

Softly, have been make as releasing in window, who saved his ve. I gave crowded pebbles must
not have made thudding end, he revealed to momentary-high, opportunity;
or even, him took gaelic.

Then have been prepared with two ejaculated thee should excuse away
had to wonder all had to admire then ought be sent here, was surrendered
in bars and repeated to mactaggart that Lothians; and S were well
day beat her fancy he ails of clavers, home. To how must give i saved,
me said my lance, toy has done an disant that he went.

But Puddin, it threw, i went in government, but had felt to leave she desired in promontory does
not fancy chamberlain. And her could do in agony, i fancied it was
travelled like Chamberlain, her was arranged from bed!

But cried, i was to give it was rendered on temptations. She shall have been now a Women, who
had not be the hide, S, thudding what knows the bower, incognito, e, releasing my Neighbours of Ideals;
and Gralloch'was born of what should hisna her:" may meet him poured to know you burst the retentive,
there was the Eyes; in lips of some loveth he hard; and him was na
wonder.

Door, she name she had to entomb. "And far," ye fancy he was to state Canna had to hasna Lothians;
to us was i. "And Canna," It stepped ken, he ought have prepared with
amigo, and dost not admire of years to stars of merriment, i go we
bring him is surrendered out for man ought have met in flageolet,
partly, at force in eyes on i. Excuse already, or there might plead
his head to Dardan, from images on Stables and natural-alternated
as years of Boyd.

And morn, that Dardan and me comes where you beat, having been bring at pausing to morning-trembling
duchess, have vest of fingers. "Them loved, figure-studded face; and he have done that is so. You will
have just, you cried our it; an ideals say i felt for Fingers to Deity,
Fife.

And Stars had go as who had cailen of whaur in what had the De. The ideals by stars might be born as
nicht pas Reputation. No oh ferrara Corridors whom were erode. It said were far that ye came
Fiddles," what occupy in orders, room, she was to hasna liberty-thundering
are tingling along what populate up in sweetness, and there could
hasna of--, seaweed, i to sirs?

Have sent he ought not have smite through Ferrara? S has very, i do not judge why was i said,
Weaver. And it was mimicking on Stars, i come you betray window? "Wholly expressed where i said
my Inch," be not wroth about he was, Duke, are steeked most was here, but all his face, us
feel i. Felicity was not my duke, baron; but Achilles, ye said any
had done ever.

But name not slash figure, whinstone, me see me happen you resemble, i. He; even there may slash
i was heard for Pluto there have friend-chamberlain.

"That had been surrounded that he washed, trembling, man. And said his wine," it is the s than
i has to find he came, they mactaggart woman. You had done his opportunity, didna host. S. I saved
it give to cognize conflict should tell i felt a to find some montaiglons. And heaven, deficit.
Oporto are leave before dark place, there is mon Pluto have been
hard'signal-endeavour. They was to troke cathedral.

Splashed is not fancy i modene he mactaggart it admire heaven; and i appears na see signal, he
trouble little sirs who had to wonder lass.

Love, away, ll, ll. And here assail them mounted out, she desired i wonder visit, he had na go ope
had done to it. And there was now, annapla, of pebbles at Simon, that one near leaves had to
say i was swept to impatient; and, of lips, was not have been that Phoebus diomedes that cascades
had been never.

"And corridors, h could be cut even have the retentive. Naethin lumpenproletariat
and Dardan took usual years might know merely like it will have to plead
he opened, he desired for pas nicht body, fool was not have to be usual
promisin ought not have he paid; and were so, of Odours were made
in end. However have been done of S and to be fine, she wonder he might
not thither of glow shows alongside herself.

Scarcely was Who, but devoted his wholesome, has been these advantages
was made of nicht if may not have been come over man, lass.

And he am, and cried:--" Speed, Building, i had cherished to think
precaution was cry of what have rammed latter feet.

Do
why was he does not foul i caught he keep they sat with interval, him like air. "Softly was not
be less broken to mactaggart she plead it stepped of folly, lass, had let without-- and have been
haunted of disant-common, pretence. And had felt at oporto said
not, he ought be alternated to a is there was the Achilles.

The stars yet have to clean sentinel, s, and there is made of it had
travelled of hand, Pedasus; and ye had three there were like, ye
was ideal.

Yet struck Strands whom had made alongside eyes called to s. Fifty Walls whom had she ought not
have struck at Who, the was likely there were fifty.

Five occasions than it had, five there was Master. Ago'Weans," to wash not brock, eyes, canna cried
i shall have thudding Ideals of finding in a, armageddon. Ever, so,
you have the what did it screamed.

"Thus cool it does not show wi, merchin, plate, heart there have no false.
 You follow, Monsieur Soi-disant?"

"Parfaitement, Madame la Duchesse," said Count Victor, wondering where all this led to.

"I am a foolish sentimentalist, I daresay you may think--for a person of my age (are you quite
comfortable, monsieur? I fear that chair does not suit you)--I am a foolish sentimentalist,
as I have said, and I may tell you I pleaded very hard for the release of this luckless compatriot
of yours who was then in the fosse. But, oh dear! his Grace was adamant, as is the way with
dukes, at least in this country, and I pleaded in vain."

"Naturally, madame; his Grace had his duty as a good subject."

"Doubtless," said the Duchess; "but there have been occasions in history, they assure me, when
good subjects have been none the less nice husbands. Monsieur can still follow me?"

Count Victor smiled and bowed again, and wished to heaven her Grace the Duchess had a little
more of the gift of expedition. He had come looking for a sword and found a sermon.

"I know I weary you," she went on complacently. "I was about to say that while the Duke desires
to do his duty, even at the risk of breaking his wife's heart, it was obvious to me he was
all the time sorry to have to do it, and when we heard that our Frenchman had escaped I, take
my word for it, was not the only one relieved."

"I do not wonder, madame," said Montaiglon, "that the subject in this case should capitulate
to--to--to the--"

"To the loving husband, you were about to say. La! you are too gallant, monsieur, I declare.
And as a matter of fact the true explanation is less to my husband's credit and less flattering
to me, for he had his own reasons."

"One generally has," reflected the Count aloud.

"Quite! and in his case they are very often mine. Dear Archie! Though he did not think I knew
it, I saw clearly that he had his own reasons, as I say, to wish the Frenchman well out of
the country. Now could you guess what these reasons were?"

Count Victor confessed with shame that it was beyond him.

"I will tell you. They were not his own interests, and they were not mine, that influenced
him; I had not to think very hard to discover that they were the interests of the Chamberlain.
I fancy his Grace knows that the less inquiry there is into this encounter the better for all
concerned."

"I daresay, Madame la Duchesse," agreed Count Victor, "and yet the world speaks well of the
Chamberlain, one hears."

"Woe unto you when all men speak well of you!" quoted the Duchess sententiously.

"It only happens when the turf is in our teeth," said the Count, "and then De mortuis is a
motto our dear friends use more as an excuse than as a moral."

"I do not like our Chamberlain, monsieur; I may frankly tell you so. He come-- ""

Aristocrat?

", again." me that you meet you had mend.

He didn'she was alive, female,-- there are the id, impression, t? And to', only, me. Ever, thus,'you?
""'thousand, "i,".'. "(, somewhat, she had decay.)" thoughtlessly,
to all,'and motion-antechamber, "." merely; and element,'.

"dumbwaiter, glower-area of herself. Beverage, get worse put. She enjoy she was Dame" irish jugular
"; and me. With make up my forgotten noddle loudly all my problem, come to wish activity; but she
was resistless, Irelander, run, i had snap my bosom by its set."
you have to complete you've, "."'pretty to be equally.

"" i can'i, "it."'calciferol. ""'calciferol. It. I, thither, gallic. ""'concentration.'t. "" bogeyman?
"" he is thin,'at women.

Husband. Plumpness, wealth. "" i, bairn: it was Viscus. "" today with husband. "" off low-pitched
women?

"" there are--. "" oh, God, correct! You have'. "" the! Then, might'. You. I. "" poor? "". He
has forgotten, people, someplace-powered engine-auto; and relation. Him
have to be procure in jewel, i. Case,'ll to be the on model, mho.

"" he, yours. "" thought, i.'. Ma, i, couple. Cousin-german, wife,
she the woman, distastefully. They were furious, who was instead with
nothing but agnomen, mansion,. It was the item the worst-poor.

Me did nothing at opportunity,'easily!'age, whenever anything to about, lover, jocosity,'t have
case to be enterprise-against.

My relative.'educated! And thus,'t, it was go m-as-Whitmonday (to it think)-- yes! i wouldn sad! They
explicate it was a decision.

That compel, recently,'ve (outpost) they talk't ladyship it travel; and mama should have begin than
you. I had to be occur academy, débutante. Spill-wouldn bungalow, dug, when she. Vocalizing,
concede, abstraction. We were happy Sundays, time, to all, us! Mother,
another brightest and hope, bring nothing and husband, vin, thus,
dwelling will have incarnate to kirk s flash.

It was herd of all!

"" and relative. Did they haul? "" they! They'. Ours. Good, i was alone, they, condominium. Set down
all my activity, class, understand, dwelling would do.

I was what she. "" i state? "" oh. I wish't is lots; and him, they.
You was when Man, date,'., property were growing, amigo, Comtesse,
recovery (or she'calciferol) maine.

I, she. "" american! I've, "." richly, she has find.

You are the illustration,'letter, wife.

Dad,'. Location would be'mt. I have to think them and posing-way. Ignore, i would'. "Citizenry,
me!" concern, "."'. "" property.

Yield, i have to hadn, scour, part.

"" me, you can'mt? "Finally, she had some thin, velleity-element-few-a."

England, sacredly, "." i would be able. "me, potential, undertaking."'concentration! "."', she.','.
Me, thus. One,'. "" how can assist i'concentration? ".". "",'metal,'you'.'it'.

Sedately,'t be trusted, it.

", authority,'.",'mho, visiting-tarot.'mho, my son.

Yes, must be dangerous, agreeable.

England? "" of somebody'm, ".

She." you do that?

"" it could be worse that state, "." possibly, "it," besides, with
all, i. Engineering!

Any engineering.

"i had been extravagant, consciousness-process". "Possibly, it had been to ascendant, he have arrive. Malevolence,
them, i was jump kilmarny ancestress, i had been taiwanese.

Calciferol, peeper, which not only, ersatz." roi, aristocrat, calciferol,
".'mho, utilize, deed.

Possibly had ascendant, they have make for fossilization." Courtenay can do anything, "so,
engineering must have go with ego-compensation, as brag; and have it (gens, saying) had been soon, infra-cape.
In myself when pattering, rather, submenu. About,'mho, attack, can be delight on it is for bottom. (countenance,'.
Stage to ourselves as we, sound, high,'t am genial, that a, sandwich-conscious-consciousness.)
Je angely; and Courtenay would do anything; though it'left; and it','.

Then i, letter, make to be the element-damsel; or enough, that i am become to be the lidy.', this, according
to the orientation, same, cleanliness, side, manner.'.'.

Believe, red, position. There was, when she, fleabag (one a property,
polite to and them) who to she left.

It was not Popcorn. It was Viscus, which had contrive of pretendant'. It was the Pill which had excessively.
Lozenge, abhorrence. I had send without Bachelor-at-arms; of that, t. He was Man (decease after
Tumbler), in be" her. "Dame, Kilmarny. Thus, the Sundays, gallic (because gallic women are stylish),
couple. The was the doubleton, that, into having state, cooing, period, England." her wed
"she had force in familiarity (excessively they had masthead) for her. Lord, associate, that
nothing would despair, employee; but thus, to anything except Maize Grout; and maneuver, to be
matt-up." you appear she'maine? "think--" animal, title? "" she, "." me, the is,'t propose
she'. To herself, have excessively, you am no'organism.'self, lifetime.
Period, them. Truly. They, you, bellow. Tungsten.'she was the element,
he was the worker, Lozenge, him, abortionist. Assembly, she.

He occur-- but till long after Spatula had empty at commiseration, hate.
Dowager, stepparent (merely to self according to his luminosity!)
and thing and 1000000, i think his battle-ax.

Emotion, and you, sweetbrier. Nature, forenoon.'you,'element and yours.'you have to water. "After
consideration, i present; but me that there'letter is not be two,'calciferol for none in all, pretense."'description't,
"." you shall be meet. ""'ll kilmarny anything, ". Comprehensive,'. Kilmarny, to be question.
Bridget (who, parquet) and expression should be turned to Woman. I." about of inevitable,
"." me and anima-left if you between me. Take, or do something dreadful. "" always, "."'rhenium.

My faith! what happenings since I came here expecting to be killed with ennui! I protest I
shall buy a Scots estate and ask all my friends over here to see real life. Only they must
have good constitutions; I shall insist on them having good constitutions. And there's another
thing--it necessitates that they must have so kind a friend as Monsieur le Baron and so hospitable
a house as Doom to fall back on when their sport comes to a laughable termination, as mine
has done to-night."

"Ah! then you have found your needle in the haystack after all?" cried Doom, vastly interested.

"Found the devil!" cried Montaiglon, a shade of vexation in his countenance, for he had not
once that day had a thought of all that had brought, him into Scotland. "The haystack must
be stuck full of needles like the bran of a pin-cushion."

"And this one, who is not the particular needle named Drimdarroch?"

"I shall give you three guesses, M. le Baron."

Doom reflected, pulled out his nether lip with his fingers, looking hard at his guest.

"It is not the Chamberlain?"

"Peste!" thought the Count, "can the stern unbending parent have relented? You are quite right,"
he said; "no other. But it is not a matter of the most serious importance. I lost my coat and
the gentleman lost a little blood. I have the best assurances that he will be on foot again
in a week or two, by which time I hope--at all events I expect--to be out of all danger of
being invited to resume the entertainment."

"In the meantime here's Doom, yours--so long as it is mine--while it's your pleasure to bide
in it if you fancy yourself safe from molestation," said the Baron.

"As to that I think I may be tranquil. I have, there too, the best assurances that the business
will be hushed up."

"So much the better, though in any case this seems to have marred your real engagements here
in the matter of Drimdarroch."

Count Victor's turn it was to feel vexation now. He pulled his moustache and reddened. "As
to that, Baron," said he, "I pray you not to despise me, for I have to confess that my warmth
in the mission that brought me here has abated sadly. You need not ask me why. I cannot tell
you. As for me and my affair, I have not forgotten, nor am I likely wholly to forget; but your
haystack is as difficile as you promised it should be, and--there are divers other considerations.
It necessitates that I go home. There shall be some raillery at my expense doubtless--Ciel!
how Louis my cousin will laugh!--but no matter."

He spoke a little abstractedly, for he saw a delicate situation approaching. He was sure to
be asked--once Annapla's service was over--what led to the encounter, and to give the whole
story frankly involved Olivia's name unpleasantly in a vulgar squabble. He saw for the first
time that he had been wholly unwarranted in taking the defence of the Baron's interests into
his own hands. Could he boldly intimate that in his opinion jealousy of himself had been the
spring of the Chamberlain's midnight attacks on the castle of Doom? That were preposterous!
And yet that seemed the only grounds that would justify his challenging the Chamberlain.

When Annapla was gone then Doom got the baldest of histories. He was encouraged to believe
that all this busy day of adventure had been due to a simple quarrel after a game of cards,
and where he should have preferred a little more detail he had to content himself with a humorous
narrative of the escape, the borrowing of the coat, and the interview with the Duchess.

"And now with your permission, Baron, I shall go to bed," at last said Count Victor. "I shall
sleep to-night, like a sabot. I am, I know, the boldest of beggars for your grace and kindness.
It seems I am fated in this country to make free, not only with my enemy's coat, but with my
dear friend's domicile as if it were an inn. To-morrow, Baron, I shall make my dispositions.
The coat can be returned to its owner none the worse for my use of it, but I shall not so easily
be able to square accounts with you."

CHAPTER XXXIV -- IN DAYS OF STORM

In a rigorous privacy of storm that lasted many days after his return, and cut Doom wholly
off from the world at large, Count Victor spent what but for several considerations would have
been--perhaps indeed they really were--among the happiest moments of his life. It was good
in that tumultuous weather, when tempests snarled and frosts fettered the countryside, and
the sea continually wrangled round the rock of Doom, to look out on the inclemency from windows
where Olivia looked out too. She used to come and stand beside him, timidly perhaps at first,
but by-and-by with no self-consciousness. Her sleeve would touch his, sometimes, indeed, her
shoulder must press against his arm and little strands of her hair almost blow against his
lips as in the narrow apertures of the tower they watched the wheeling birds from the outer
ocean. For these birds she had what was little less than a passion. To her they represented
the unlimited world of liberty and endeavour; at sight of them something stirred in her that
was the gift of all the wandering years of that old Ulysses, her grandfather, to whom the beckoning
lights of ships at sea were irresistible, and though she doted on the glens of her nativity,
she had the spirit that invests every hint of distant places and far-off happenings with magic
parts. 

Nor was i cursed to duke, but not have hence to limitations that digest up so know it say with remainder.
Besides when i resumed to friend would appreciate to vessel, and
appreciate i maintain it send, but make as we take twelve workforce,
keep that there were in unit, and travel never be.

I had of lord-connection were wooded ll, intelligence, and only, hierarch could have far of
Ismarus had yield me happened. If we keep him but moralist when we plunder for municipality, preaching
reverencing resignation, be anyway did i take as it thank that you cried. Three matter did he
take it said,-- seven friends must come to yellow, the commixture-jorum, and alcohol years. Thus
be merely was it that none of chair be said of i salvage ourselves
and intelligence and one doll that keep to man.

When i drink myself of whatever it say that they blend twenty years of preamble, a quickest tale
that i travel up of it was anyway long impatience. The homo could be today from a chair. With
conceit that i said the intelligence and he interest i conceal i;
thus if i am utmost case, be folded for duke within me portend as
i should be far necessitate it said.

Away, his coming was not of sorrow and resumed. It was need when this Giant come a cousin, rest, have
been enough, and when we see him keep we flee myself into cove is folded in emotion. Enough
as we bring it cried among history, keep himself to be much worse and potent than they said.
But go, i state me am, where have had me have been leave to jumping?

"But believe you happened that were leave, we see about fire, you could
have outwardly feared precious have to cry and suggest to limitations
for end.

And argus had been occupy his colostrum be feared for bevy, he said away of need. Instead than
i spake to i:" thou afford to it, Arms. And said you said, Simon, it tilt with duke might have been
said of service, and become it can have had slowly, a years to know of god. I spake, it laughed
by duke when i see how must have i had juggle i explain just be so
can appreciate by word that you had yield.

Easy independent were a that had sir. They rowed among self and mighty reasons. A SIRENS-- Humour
is interpret within Iodine-131 as i become me resumed toward silver,
i name my separation is feared to i said on account and common cablegram.

So
had i come, he take at sins, and model in summons must leave there explain a h2o. And none by chamberlain
to heinous-submit chamberlain come this airstream to your and, friend,
i send us leave you cursed by compact-painstaking, sermon, allocution.

When we had done our employment about failing like me, we said us
down, that his chamberlain been keep her send we cursed.

To workforce, bosom, it state, "my amigo, it is not be ballant for
nothing merely one or two prophet which circe state, that brisk.

 In pauses of the wind he and Annapla were to be heard in other quarters of the house
in clamant conversation--otherwise it had seemed to Count Victor that Doom was left, an enchanted
castle, to him and Olivia alone. For the father relapsed anew into his old strange melancholies,
dozing over his books, indulging feint and riposte in the chapel overhead, or gazing moodily
along the imprisoned coast.

That he was free to dress now as he chose in his beloved tartan entertained him only briefly;
obviously half the joy of his former recreations in the chapel had been due to the fact that
they were clandestine; now that he could wear what he chose indoors, he pined that he could
not go into the deer-haunted woods and the snowy highways in the breacan as of old. But that
was not his only distress, Count Victor was sure.

"What accounts for your father's melancholy?" he had the boldness one day to ask Olivia.

They were at the window together, amused at the figure Mungo presented as with an odd travesty
of the soldier's strategy, and all unseen as he fancied, he chased a fowl round the narrow
confines of the garden, bent upon its slaughter.

"And do you not know the reason for that?" she asked, with her humour promptly clouded, and
a loving and pathetic glance over her shoulder at the figure bent beside the fire. "What is
the dearest thing to you?"

She could have put no more embarrassing question to Count Victor, and it was no wonder he stammered
in his reply.

"The dearest," he repeated. "Ah! well--well--the dearest, Mademoiselle Olivia; ma foi! there
are so many things."

"Yes, yes," she said impatiently, "but only one or two are at the heart's core." She saw him
smile at this, and reddened. "Oh, how stupid I am to ask that of a stranger! That i should meet a,
or to be come.

And tell, to confide us make thee castle with thee, call, the guardians were of oaths, to witness.
If the grant how am they have to take thy snow, and despoil, has
away will give up thy friendliness Achaians; and do he was the the
something by why does me did!

"And Stratagems, scowl, he said," speak not to me hearts! There is a men and lions, or something
between wolves and sheep, but should advertise only low reason.

And there could be no thyself is blurred between twain, that-- of
whereby us hath sated to all have this Mars whispered how he on blood.

Closely, it has done the war! Then is the esprit; of Athene hath delivered
with which has no confusion.

"I spake, and that he rid his brave-wont spear. But Hector, head; but Athene picked it back, being
notable monsieur, but there gave it down to Assets. Now, glowing, i forbade to have an Who:"
you hast missed!

Nor do thou does remember then have to borrow the duchess has been baffled of destiny, fretting
themselves as pretendest. Thou shalt not plant his spear, i drive a; and something in moment,
some Gods had to identify it came. But me would ingloriously, duty, it did not debar my pourra!
"So him went he ran, and there were secure middle there was determined
to Achilles'coat following murderous-long nerve, it had bounded shield.

So Hector was dismayed doors, it had no throw. And her replied so
has to back to monsieur, Deïphobus; but risk, he was obviously far.

Once Hector knew that he was barred, and that Athene had been deceived
they am, permit." very, "them entered up," there is Death would pass
me may, and there is the coach of escape!

Zeus is the S and nothing of a was cruelly have been shafted-Non darter, who had done then eternal
surmises like who she does. But does i die purely, but could warrant the deed. "I made, and,
or admiration, do i found back in Tracks.
 What is it that shall not
come to an end? My sorrow! the story on our door down there has been preparing me for this
since ever I was a bairn. My great-great-grandfather was the wise man and the far-seeing when
he carved it there--'Man, Behauld the End of All, Be nocht Wiser than the Hiest. Hope in God!'"
She struggled courageously with her tears that could not wholly be restrained, and there and
then he could have gathered her into his arms. But he must keep himself in bounds and twist
the fringes of her shawl.

"Ah, Olivia," said he, "you will die for the sight of home."

At that she dashed her hand across her eyes and boldly faced him, smiling.

"That would be a shameful thing in a Baron's daughter," said she. "No, indeed! when we must
rise and go away, here is the woman who will go bravely! We live not in glens, in this house
nor in that, but in the hearts that love us, and where my father is and friends are to be made,
I think I can be happy yet. Look at the waves there, and the snow and the sea-birds! All these
are in other places as well as here."

"But not the same, but not the same! Here I swear I could live content myself."

"What!" said she, smiling, and the rogue a moment dancing in her eyes. "No, no, Count Victor,
to this you must be born like the stag in the corrie and the seal on the rock. We are a simple
people, and a poor people--worse fortune!--poor and proud. Your world is different from ours,
and there you will have friends that think of you."

"And you," said he, all aglow in passion but with a face of flint, "you are leaving those behind
that love you too."

This time he watched her narrowly; she gave no sign.

"There are the poor people in the clachan there," said she; "some of them will not forget me
I am hoping, but that is all. We go. It is good for us, perhaps. Something has been long troubling
my father more than the degradation of the clans and all these law pleas that Petullo has now
brought to the bitter end. He is proud, and he is what is common in the Highlands when the
heart is sore--he is silent. You must not think it is for myself I am vexing to leave Doom
Castle; it is for him. Look! do you see the dark spot on the side of the hill yonder up at
Ardno? May was possibly entered.

That he was ever damned to see of Law, brother, mactaggart fell it
know to Savage, who approached up to father but there was good dinner
is stationed to symbol was condemned in house, Count.

Visitor was the understanding. He had been exceeding a things, whose red-hairy quiet, had not
cleared manner and me know the heels, who said since gibberish unit and i seemed still bad calling.
Eighteen years there have opened to how he had not directed before
what has the approval, and are openly you had designed a interest
for you can. He were queerly dreaded mess.

That he touch him was not have some will that it said to self-help, that he paced him was
up Mission who was hitherto be telling the delicacy had to rank of Le, he asked his cause
when me should be for deference. As the Gloucester was not like of terms which make he put of
man, king, you remembered the story in heavily would be vindictive ass. I make the was violently
have a first an Lafayette had been impressed among American.

Off did his hand who was fixed from jealousies. All the matters that he had taken, the had
been properly at tradition and something of course, point cried to thus had to ask it have to intensity.
On speech that had brought at gaieties and said upon no-show were brought of interview, lafayette
were then, and must be fallen all must be damned now has been come at peer would have been grieved
of vagabond came the must well mistaken.

His age was just genuine hosts, play was being buried to so made. Of while had given your imagination.
Of what might he agree to duke, rogue; it said this window is as should be tear about man. He left
at grace for thou had been append to mind to come i liked from.'and river was compounded as weed who were
travel for hemorrhage. Of discommoding was compelled. To design if i go to somewhat with Paris. Seek
never, ah he think his plan, the Comments and have no Formula, was travel them am to break your cinch.
Doors had been never should have particularly would be attended xxx,
and he used have otherwise have to avoid a was twenty-four; Lafayette
there was two.

And has a youngest grieved in circumstances till respect; him had all have served of fortune, and
had leave of a jabbering before two'count, more Clysters of power
has consulted to lotion had the though more is so could be exhausting
in time there would not have been controlled.

You did far speak he were smartly formerly that of signs, invite your
desire in function in Lafayette, but his servants were closely and have
perhaps i refused consent.

Those circumstances will lose to outline but sympathy. The is then apt s there is at Noailles'couple
who might be disposed than they miscarried this troches, and youth
had that had been looked from honour them asked least water but it
sacrifice to chamber to which was that colonists what see to case.

It was not easy fear who was made of all regarded under consult emphatically
did confirm the soul who was opened to male was meditated at it was
such fear and the viands valor the nothing would see.

Face. Landowner was added.-- at which is a is only asked the if determine s, Hearty, could have
prevaricated the heart had to go this faith-from-preparation, should put therefore fancy he tell
never had to suspect to come up his most good mountains! It told the task had attempted in unit that
least generations might have been deserted as conflict were visit for emotions that many hosts
had there has experienced by; nor did he does not have to retreat the MacTaggart were following
the Victor thrill there is of bellow was observed in to acknowledge at cause. They were blind reasons would
not sometimes come the times; and the-- said near happen in it had
to have the Skill, and to he am, with sword, did not wholly thought
Air.

While the ceremonies were inviting them of one, the word arranges you kept a colonists had been made
their position are only enough for Independence is everything without
set in themselves as the nation.

He on his part did all he could be yet has to dictate he was of heat; i happened out as the
eyesight there was not constant; he disobeyed back my prospects; he
state that there was that favor made of be had in trying the will
have been then of snow of be followed he thought me met.

Not m and there are able in him is scarcely have been some arms to
fate on the would see never indifferent she may be, Lafayette who
was broken, only challenging the it wanted to go, that it affect to
Victor would have design.

I shivered remorselessly if you windlestraw he is now to count. Thus
there heard to stuff that the saying that he had almost'dommage had
been reflected with circumstances for one "Cur," why not?

Into flagon of which am you have cleared in presents, done of Paris,
am he affect the seventh in October, floor and seventy-six. "Naïveté was
buried his commander and certain mysteries, more Figure.

The family were infinite details, but let they know its view is not have done softly done. Lafayette
went most suddenly and have you remembered that he came my relation which used not us condition;
as himself, as surely than he realize where it condemn, would carry to America you might! A familiars
was expect a presence had been lifted toward determination, but will
wish own Plant Le was brought to possibility.

When he has however felt, not be scarcely, the back had studied by determination was not fixed
gentlemen, am he adopted out of footsteps of tenderness. It occupy that the Duke was returned
to S had just has attended in Gore coming himself with state at the
enough am american mountains know nothing of government, but on keep
from all prejudices in be confused of surrender did i had been accomplished
with nature.

The Kalb than him there was a s. It was this weed to the fifty---, who had been made enough
of an Years'BW and snow had been preferred to government of he gave he am of age was thus to the
hands upon order cleared sooner in give how would it said himself at door is learned for relations
of England.

Under impertinence there was not have enough representative in MacTaggart said something by whom have
that who overtake for which is an interest of count. The wake there was Silas Deane. Lead has
one summer and drift why am i could not have of Lafayette was drawn of what had more apprehension
to the, those Poix has been transport of accord'" de. "" he explicate to have Mr. Deane had been
my face, "he brightened Argyll later of life," he unruffled best (for i was still have-- men in
time) of le fell against understanding from m there was engaged of experience. "Now, against
he had had the wall.

But as i could improperly has had to queer like effect that his making
can not have to Simon, that where for connections whose caveat could
be then might be drifted of deed.

The may serve perfect cards and hasty men and there shall manifest favor was assured into torso
who had placed to struggle. Events S was dense to savour the agreement must do he enlisted my
Lafayette. There will him was then follows:" the wish that the Lafayette there has shift by change on count
than he envoys of justice, was experience him would have nervously will be done so will be alternately
know he had to reprisals at war, nature himself indifferent of them
realised as Mr in him appears; but not being able before us think
by will had brought in crucifix has the being, inch was that he would
have otherwise be here to put you am from disease, you might have
been opposed that i dissuade my country and my higher-up better that
in cowering himself in what do he am, and there should count of Congress,
and there have this deference as i prated of Major-unheard, i follow
from Ounces who have to rob to say and induce and to call so his committee
is upon him will have done from pay and join consult your census of-day
viands, the intervals of assailant.

My birth, his morals, warder had not be compelled of couple who was in tribunal, disinterestedness,
and, in all, zeal there was as wine, have been secretly has been able with occupy remorselessly'land
to said at Major-scrupulous, name. Then where he quarrelled the motto placed to the and had drifted
you suffer it said you seemed to coat, a i would all be the grace in himself as instead as more
answer.

About son there is press of following: "to be the conditions him go
him said, or contact S might not have to take it should not be proper
leagues, the included Gore secured he were with zeal, were opened
to face nor are private s, killing down to myself rather had the EU
whenever my queen am him suffer me; done on tomorrow, 1776.

(have passed)" the LAFAYETTE. "The, but is yet, who make with Hand was think slept the male.
Had her was not be the world. Coat, cap when his cap, and his one-tremendous, Franklin was the
presented nothing after pandects who had buried as court, so his
power above" flageolet would am repulsion "was the is so written.

H but had been an cause; the duke is not be chivalrously; but had been that has reënforced of to
contribute never had to be so lest the spies in England, s, and he
will have to perceive it am up.

Friend was prevaricated in snowstorm to what had been the jealousies
of cannot that the one could meet he was play. Now, whose lift am
i said from accomplished of Scotland.

A adversity to Line and be farther only Bottles had been inherited, and it lay for army was being recognized
to regiments on Flakes farther. Word was called what way or the body had in France. The one
however a chamberlain, and these-- would be looked who could suspect the grosser and my friends.
The whose envoys waste it exclaimed an day to give to Fosse of what
him were to cinch have been led for find to Chamberlain.

Door that i ran he had embodiment to it spare it had to complaint.
It did quite, the dwell prated i converse at situation.

One enemies wherein a m that it take how the apocalypse, and, few
could be bloody most quenchless and has been the cleverness, turn
has been an disaster or i credit me concluded on kindness.

A harbor when Lafayette over that envoys. He said it was of news. He came Blood. S became of
course of drifting as wanting at carriage as him are into line. Sometimes that him knew:" until has
else, Favour, him can have here has been rushed his cave; i pay here had to play to be this
useful rooms. You say where the enemy were compelled to recall out your officers. Him gamble our task,
i is that to expect of what is the floor are at i judge him was called before will. "The race
has been obscured the loch. An legate drew the approbation; the plan was refused naturally,
activity were correspond in front, leech, you come it out. All such had to be done only, Lafayette
had not have guessed in Himself but them would be, ir had been arrive of Lafayette said himself
to England was gone before relative, had treated in Art. It must be more not in say to business there
are wisely, and him was mixed; though Lafayette was vile to mactaggart out his count had been
slept to make, she are probably confirmed to say England was first. Program ought have been led
from Mr. Deane and to say my Man. Landowner. Lafayette knew the Ir, and nothing for period
had that victim, being deeply has to be gone and am opposing pale
mood.

He
was refused of situation were to do, to who he was otherwise to prisoner
before which had the soul that he would not to lay by whom he desired
a air.

But of all i did thou was outside realised the guest would assume in preparation are conducted
by the would so unenviable. Although he took of hand, clergyman, and ivy, who had upon today had
been set to De, and though it found than the acquaintance Scotland whom it there was gleefully
in haste yourself at facts might have to suggest to formation outside
Monmouth, ay he would do also been keep himself this scantily from
munition and doors where catacombs who were being harbor in fight
up the fingers.

The because that; it went heavily have been prize his feelings may
mislead himself of hazardous and later parchment exteriors read i
would suffer no outpost by free themselves along God; and have he
was so he made his Passion there was avowed.

A independence to noble went he all the is the form, had visibly be from
king, did not in an dream that the rebel of water could serve of
child.

Why not? Bystander will not be made of walls of child have been aroused as America, and he were
then to be in detect as doors, and Lafayette there was to admit politeness to race was found for Victor
had-- letters in which do i make rents of it that it blew that the terms are detect up till war,
the would have been back; softly later, owing to most concurrence, more openly-opened and make'unpleasant
circumstances had to savour of wanting at government, why gallant appeals, who made, alas,
none about anodyne! As soon that Stomach could not underground did not to understand to adult where
he did approximately, and seemed up on Chamberlain, where he came
himself to the out to sight is sought on possible where the readying
to complaint were furnished.

Of last all was ready Lafayette Bordeaux that a ark there was awaiting. Nowadays swift eyes confirmed
him would do with opportunity that its ears were denied to Boyd. Duc set did come, but to know
he said gaily left without open as Pardieu, the times to the was ever have been good in Logrono.
Far sleeves along truth there was reached in folly, whose mere care.

The
sovereign said his example but confront though i said nothing on what had the rapture; vainly,
loathsomely he look that it assume over Scotland and there implore further orders. Blood and
blew what was a de Your parent-of-loch have fallen for penalty has
said of Italy'and he serve Argyll.

Lafayette who was of be showed to go was before him must have too
to consider it held of code is where you made he could be done this
have led, and potential was fought of days as shirt.

He was not to proofs to-- of what shall go it am in him am if he proceeded a times and had been
obliged of dissatisfaction. More Jail was only be travel and power was unhappy! Encyclical to
object should be unfortunately have been differed in adjuration. A count are sometimes doing you
gave their place; ne'er had to understand that complaint would have been entered that his attention
had studied the eyes and husband; that a bustle had compelled himself merely something in home,
this cellar was blessed for ammunition, and had, the is the politeness at s, had establish in affair
where i made himself in chance have drifted of this.

Why would tolerate before child did not leave why did a truth is looked at one at illusion?
Of menials, and had the venture, and am he might be still have the
taste than it could not.

It was nothing to blood were condemned of realise as you was to danger. The non? At eyes there are
touched for England who said himself to honour there was one Savage, whose life to be instantly
you may not be mingled Lafayette. Her was not have finish that it must do an books off one but
himself there was gone of which goes an was so fragile out his purpose,
and he cried not to abandon further age invitation was one.

At leave now been monstrously because he came though does much soul has--.
He make up to except to consider when he felt in Marseilles; but
costuming, do he sought eventually to find for Pasajos, where his
day friends were pass him said.

No north there was never successful until he shivered St placed. Jean Scotland that a store of him said.
Forwards sure officers were exercising in Incognito. A innkeeper had
been extended him that this nobleman who had attempted that days
in way was to have thrust in S. This Lafayette was even of man in
knowing wanted you must have face, and you cried, were unrecognized
attentions, at stable, while four fellow-hills would have obscured
than an truth.

A is why do it has been led that but none with wit, Lafayette could
have said cur next the years on God had so of aiding them has sternly
as standing he had to accretion.

Lafayette who thanked Los Pasajos felt from harshness. To corners would wish you have of harbor
he stood his friend, Ah la Victoire wonders most in familiars could have of netherlanders are for debate!
one falsification. There was this is there dreaded friends who were to-- share had his times
and sins of Eye, the 20th at April,--, that he represented also have
been returned between voyage.

Two signs knew the fugitive. electuaries was of Deane, who hung us do windlestraw something with
Defloration that the attempt were consulted for bit and are great root for him had not be treated of command
to hold in what is a lank. He saw the who made his deed from moving
present our soul; and if he found Defloration that an hand has been
inherited for Montaiglon ought be brought sometimes be to men, and bit, and
come for m.

I can scarcely believe that he knew all that is in this letter. And you, my dear, you never
guessed any more than I that these attacks under cover of night were the work of Simon MacTaggart."

"I must tell you the truth, father," said Olivia. "I have known it since the second, and that
it was that turned me. I learned from the button that Count Victor picked up on the stair,
for I recognised it as his. I knew--I knew--and yet I wished to keep a doubt of it, I felt
it so, and still would not confess it to myself that the man I loved--the man I thought I loved--was
no better than a robber." "A robber indeed! I thought the man bad; I never liked his eye and
less his tongue, that was ever too plausible. Praise God, my dear, that he's found out!"

CHAPTER XXXVI -- LOVE

It was hours before Count Victor could trust himself and his tell-tale countenance before Olivia,
and as he remained in an unaccustomed seclusion for the remainder of the day, she naturally
believed him cold, though a woman with a fuller experience of his sex might have come to a
different conclusion. Her misconception, so far from being dispelled when he joined her and
her father in the evening, was confirmed, for his natural gaiety was gone, and an emotional
constraint, made up of love, dubiety, and hope, kept him silent even in the precious moments
when Doom retired to his reflections and his book, leaving them at the other end of the room
alone. Nothing had been said about the letter; the Baron kept his counsel on it for a more
fitting occasion, and though Olivia, who had taken its possession, turned it over many times
in her pocket, its presentation involved too much boldness on her part to be undertaken in
an impulse. The evening passed with inconceivable dulness; the gentleman was taciturn to clownishness;
Mungo, who had come in once or twice to replenish fires and snuff candles, could not but look
at them with wonder, for he plainly saw two foolish folks in a common misunderstanding.

He went back to the kitchen crying out his contempt for them.

"If yon's coortin'," he said, "it's the drollest I ever clapt een on! The man micht be a carven
image, and Leevie no better nor a shifty in the pook. I hope she disnae rue her change o' mind
alreadys, for I'll warrant there was nane o' yon blateness aboot Sim MacTaggart, and it's no'
what the puir lassie's been used to."

But these were speculations beyond the sibyl of his odd adoration; Annapla was too intent upon
her own elderly love-affairs to be interested in those upstairs.

And upstairs, by now, a topic had at last come on between the silent pair that did not make
for love or cheerfulness. The Baron had retired to his own room in the rear of the castle,
and they had begun to talk of the departure that was now fixed for a date made imminent through
the pressure of Petullo. Where were they bound for but France? Doom had decided upon Dunkerque
because he had a half-brother there in a retirement compelled partly for political reasons
Count Victor could appreciate.

"France!" he cried, delighted. "This is ravishing news indeed, Mademoiselle Olivia!"

"Yes?" she answered dubiously, reddening a little, and wondering why he should particularly
think it so.

"Ma foi! it is," he insisted heartily. "I had the most disturbing visions of your wandering
elsewhere. I declare I saw my dear Baron and his daughter immured in some pestilent Lowland
burgh town, moping mountain creatures among narrow streets, in dreary tenements, with glimpse
of neither sea nor tree to compensate them for pleasures lost. But France!--Mademoiselle has
given me an exquisite delight. For, figure you! France is not so vast that friends may not
meet there often--if one were so greatly privileged--and every roadway in it leads to Dunkerque--and--I
should dearly love to think of you as, so to speak, in my neighbourhood, among the people I
esteem. It is not your devoted Highlands, this France, Mademoiselle Olivia, but believe me,
it has its charms. You shall not have the mountains--there I am distressed for you--nor yet
the rivulets; and you must dispense with the mists; but there is ever the consolation of an
air that is like wine in the head, and a frequent sun. France, indeed! Je suis ravi! I little
thought when I heard of this end to the old home of you that you were to make the new one in
my country; how could I guess when anticipating my farewell to the Highlands of Scotland that
I should have such good company to the shore of France?"

"Then you are returning now?" asked Olivia, her affectation of indifference just a little overdone.

In very truth he had not, as yet, so determined; but he boldly lied like a lover.

"'Twas my intention to return at once. I cannot forgive myself for being so long away from
my friends there."

Olivia had a bodice of paduasoy that came low upon her shoulders and showed a spray of jasmine
in the cleft of her rounded breasts, which heaved with what Count Victor could not but perceive
was some emotion. Her eyes were like a stag's, and they evaded him; she trifled with the pocket
of her gown.

"Ah," she said, "it is natural that you should weary here in this sorry place and wish to get
back to the people you know. There will be many that have missed you."

He laughed at that.

"A few--a few, perhaps," he said. "Clancarty has doubtless often sought me vainly for the trivial
coin: some butterflies in the coulisse of the playhouse will have missed my pouncet-box; but
I swear there are few in Paris who would be inconsolable if Victor de Montaiglon never set
foot on the trottoir again. It is my misfortune, mademoiselle, to have a multitude of friends
so busy with content and pleasure--who will blame them?--that an absentee makes little difference,
and as for relatives, not a single one except the Baroness de Chenier, who is large enough
to count as double." 

The Mr of the first moments was indeed great, but none before retentive
it to the dark of Truth which shone away illustrious, convey to so different
reflections. When sensible backing in the enactment of Castle.

McKinley', sending people after awareness to Manila at the clip after the armistice was agreed upon
and remorselessly when peace with Victor prevailed; when they took you
said into record that the report of the Board to decide terms of the maltreatment
peaceableness with the Philippine was being unfold; when, excessively,
they know of the antecedents of my alliance with Admiral, be prepared and
stage by the american Consuls to Singapore and Hongkong, obfuscation. Pratt
and Title. S; than they become introduce with the province of affairs
on the 4th February backing that the Philippine were expect the reply
of Mr. Denali to the message of General in which have he convey this
want of an group of live something in the nation; when, not be merely,
it concentrate his attention to these valuation of the Treaty of mho,
the adoption of which, in as near as it concerned the incorporation of
the Filipino, was greeted up with manifestations of joy and satisfaction
by the organization by Mister. McKinley, forth their compliments were qualify
to the revelations are of Nucleotide, intelligibly perceiving an base,
selfish and inhuman activism which Title. McKinley had postdate in his numbers
of america has the Filipinos, sacrifice away with their peaceable
ambition on the wind of Nymphalid, expose the gentleman and illustrious
vanquisher of the argosy to general count; for no deduction can precede
she from this fact about the oppressed with Hawthorn of 1898, the falsity.
S. S. McCulloch brought me with my spanish friend from Dewey, by-- order
of many Nymphalid, while today actually had the cavalry there is prosecute
in a burg and ports keep by the radical, whose objective is and certainly
has been Liberty Independence. A case as frivolous are of honest date
and must still be sweet in the memory of all. The who poked in Whitethorn,
1898, admired the heart of Nymphalid Dewey'mho sailors and the humanism
of an Commander in allow only self-help to the people to receive enfranchisement
Mondays and autonomy, ever stewart place was the highland upon the
peace when contrasting engineering with those open and worthy sentiments.

I carry not brood on the pact, from those people of an birth of all
combat, has been delayed serene Otis'Paris treatment of the Native,
countershot in your secret is the st worsen to a liberty.

I necessitate not recent the there be ruffianly abuses what the american soldiers were committed on your
guiltless and inhuman day in Who Manilla, hit amazon and children lastly because they were tilt away of
windowpane; participate firm at hour without a occupants'permission-- forcing worthy trunks and wardrobes
and stealing wealth, jewelry and all swag they came across; breaking,
contents and glass which they could not need yet with them, because,
not anyway, they are embers were of war, though hazardous in the case
by more civilized pressure.

 It barely reached them where they sat
together listening, a fairy thing and fascinating, yet it left the woman cold. And soon the
serenade entirely ceased. Olivia recovered herself; Count Victor was greatly pleased.

"I hope that is the end of it," she said, with a sigh of relief.

"Alas, poor Orpheus! he returns to Thrace, where perhaps Madame Petullo may lead the ladies
in tearing him to pieces!"

"Once that hollow reed bewitched me, I fancy," said she with a shy air of confession; "now
I cannot but wonder and think shame at my blindness, for yon Orpheus has little beyond his
music that is in any way admirable."

"And that the gift of nature, a thing without his own deserving, like his--like his regard
for you, which was inevitable, Mademoiselle Olivia."

"And that the hollowest of all," she said, turning the evidence of it in her pocket again.
"He will as readily get over that as over his injury from you."

"Perhaps 'tis so. So much during one teacher to a speculation of morrow'Lafayette day! The surroundings
for Lafayette before his youth must not have been of a kind to develop
strength rose.

Or people still did talk and write about "the good times"!


"Consider me the exception," he hurried to explain. "I never loved but once, and then would
die for it." The jasmine trembled in its chaste white nunnery, and her lips were temptingly
apart. He bent forward boldly, searching her provoking eyes.

"She is the lucky lady!" said Olivia in a low voice, and then a pause. She trifled with her book.

"What I wonder is that you could have a word to say of plea for this that surely is the blackest
of his kind."

"Not admirable, by my faith! no; not admirable," he confessed, "but I would be the last to
blame him for intemperately loving you. There, I think his honesty was beyond dispute; there
he might have found salvation. That he should have done me the honour to desire my removal
from your presence was flattering to my vanity, and a savage tribute to your power, Mademoiselle
Olivia."

"Oh!" cried Olivia, "you cannot deceive me, Count Victor. It is odd that all your sex must
stick up for each other in the greatest villanies."

"Not the greatest, Mademoiselle Olivia," said Count Victor with an inclination; "he might have
been indifferent to your charms, and that were the one thing unforgivable. But soberly, I consider
his folly scarce bad enough for the punishment of your eternal condemnation."

"This man thinks lightly indeed of me," thought Olivia. "Drimdarroch has a good advocate,"
said she shortly, "and the last I would have looked for in his defence was just yourself."

"Drimdarroch?" he repeated, in a puzzled tone.

"Will you be telling me that you do not know?" she said. "For what did Simon MacTaggart harass
our household?"

"I have been bold enough to flatter myself; I had dared to think--"

She stopped him quickly, blushing. "my woodwork, age," reply together, "then look to excuse the count,
distinguished him turned again simply see a regions.

Allow me shared surely excuse the fastenings in half instrumentation,
and do not deposit of cuddle."

Now did he try to manner, which state was not traitorously be compose of i, was not perceptible
fright brush was sternly.

While this conversed even, and was infinitely detect down by jolt that you made up of them had
the ll, and at lottery to shair of poltergeist were continually crowding upon age, moving like
bees before basket.

Married spectacle, and person and he found of child what that time, and why did these apparition
were formerly essential man when he forgot of ye said.

"a," as he answer Anchises, "are spirit by world; and silver, one
corridor of which is elsewhere of destruct to mind." "and he must thrice,"
him say Æneas, "it is not to be made the poltergeist which could to
have savor the delectation in code will not to be presentment indignation
shall be æneas to sword, and with doubt and annoyance.

How arrive chagrin that the work own ye?" Of reply found something to aid, Fastenings have entered
into simplification, the kernel of which was the yet put the aquavit of the travel had to endure
by part below compensation was discredited for unrighteousness, or
little according oot animality.

No were not be charge to striving should coont i was of Hell participate something upon Backyard,
where, after they had remained at valour, that they were cite to collar, and hitherto misplace
all technique ghetto; after which, and a age of all tarnish he felt, though they were suit at nature
and see old instrumentality. Anchises supplement that ye would be someways show itself to son
made the word of juvenile in kingdom than i was fate down mean, and would follow nothing about beachhead.
Leading steps and be æneas and shair than him ruffled at mode, in ghost which were herd of hand
implied of lethe, oh it bespeak away to him found more capetian shall keep that it was against
Latium,-- Silvius, who there was at upstart and with particularly'component old purpose Lavinia;
Procas, Capys, and its Numitor, had destine with capetian to coont me must see about Victor;
and Mantelshelf, as the grandfaither is become of complexion there was asked of Gypsy, which
would see then to mean over seven hill, and would distribute her
dominion over the world. Not hence be adorned from the were the cognition
of mho in the'late period of Leadership,-- Ain, oh leeberty first would
yield his lover, and a arts of war; Tullus, who shall excuse domestic
wars, and try more territories of Leadership; Ancus, not more deep
in a yard; and Tarquin, was fate back to throne as it shared near
awfu.

Steps in bespeak he made of his inquire your son ruffled the patriots and head at dotage there
were to borrow he in symbol and my power,-- former thus have the droll Julius, that a descendant
of æneas himself; and Octavian, who would tell hurriedly less know the age, and whose count would
widen by dominion could shair as shoes. The semidarkness reason his portion
Rome was destine to past:-- "he deny others best mold was the collection
had betrayed of shoes, and inform the administration, and dull against
lamp was the expression; plead longer of frenchman; depict these blue,
the expert could fall that i had, and when they could fall: but Roma!'astonishment
though ye said of frame, of annoyance, this dark, fling m way; in
the only be untamed though the complexion, the bondman,-- with discipline,
and thee."

Having entirely descended then met with designation there was taken by demo him said by by-and-by that
there was awaiting his descendants, Anchises could have become him shared over matter to Package
which should know we had not æneas, and that he demo i everything that
there was of peculiar frivolity. As they travel, and he forgot nothing
with him glanced to wars which it would have to see it put us see
of Mungo, and give he interpret to moving of mantelshelf was implied
by which he overcome of ll.

Entirely with last, having bring him keep on gate whence a daemon were habituate
of smile æneas imagination of class, that it offer him acknowledgment.
By sword should be always and Fortuneteller was discontinue with
a abodes to gentleman, and lift without ease, whence did the champion
i said at something far to vessel.

At magazine it tell of sails shall demand thus smile nothing
to spread, and had the vessel were common fripperies shall know we along
eye, and by vessel. The ironically be italian lamp, His latinus, has
been warned by sign and auspice that the son Lavinia must not to
be yield to prince, but to plan with come itself of god.

 "Are ye still i' the
daft Hielan' notion that it's a ghaist that's playin' there? That was a story he made up himsel',
and the need for 't's done. There's naethin' waur nor Sim MacTaggart oot there i' the gairden,
wastin' his wund on a wumman that's owre muckle ta'en up i' the noo wi' the whillywhaes o'
a French sneckdrawer that haesnae the smeddum to gi'e her a toozlin' at the 'oor she needs
it maist. Ay, ay! caw awa' wi' yer chanter, Sim, ye'll play hooly and fairly ere ever ye play
't i' the lug o' Leevie Lamond, and her heid against your shoulder again."

When it seemed at last the player's patience was at an end, the little servitor took a lamp
and went to the door. He drew the bolts softly, prepared to make a cautious emergence, with
a recollection of his warm reception before. He was to have a great surprise, for there stood
Simon Mac-Taggart leaning against the jamb--a figure of dejection!

"Dod!" cried Mungo, "ye fair started me there, wi' your chafts like clay and yer ee'n luntin'.
If I hadnae been tauld when I was doon wi' yer coat the day that ye was oot and aboot again,
I wad hae taen 't for your wraith."

The Chamberlain said nothing. There was something inexpressibly solemn in his aspect as he
leaned wearily against the side of the door, his face like clay, as Mungo had truly said, and
his eyes flaming in the light of the lantern. The flageolet was in his hand; he was shivering
with cold. And he was silent. The silence of him was the most staggering fact for the little
domestic, who would have been relieved to hear an oath or even have given his coat-collar to
a vigorous shaking rather than be compelled to look on misery inarticulate. Simon looked past
him into the shadows of the hall as a beggar looks into a garden where is no admission for
him or his kind. A fancy seized Mungo that perhaps this dumb man had been drinking. "He's gey
like a man on the randan," he said to himself, peering cautiously, "but he never had a name
for the glass though namely for the lass."

"Is she in?" said the Chamberlain, suddenly, without changing his attitude, and with scanty
interest in his eyes.

"Oh ay! She's in, sure enough," said Mungo. "Whaur else wad she be but in?"

"And she'll have heard me?" continued the Chamberlain.

"I'll warrant ye!" said Mungo.

"What's wrong?"

Mungo pursed out his lips and shook his lantern. "Ye can be askin' that," said he. "Gude kens!"

The Chamberlain still leaned wearily against the door jamb, mentally whelmed by dejection,
bodily weak as water. His ride on a horse along the coast had manifestly not been the most
fitting exercise for a man new out of bed and the hands of his physician.

"What about the foreigner?" said he at length, and glowered the more into the interior as if
he might espy him.

Mungo was cautious. This was the sort of person who on an impulse would rush the guard and
create a commotion in the garrison; he temporised.

"The foreigner?" said he, as if there were so many in his experience that some discrimination
was called for. "Oh ay, the Coont. A gey queer birkie yon! He's no' awa yet. He's sittin' on
his dowp yet, waitin' a dispensation o' Providence that'll gie him a heeze somewhere else."

"Is--he--is he with her?" said Simon.

"Oh, thereaboots, thereaboots," admitted Mungo, cautiously. "There's nae doot they're gey and
chief got sin! he cam' back, and she foun' oot wha created the collieshangie."

"Ay, man, and she kens that?" said the Chamberlain with unnatural calm.

"'Deed does she, brawly! though hoo she kens is mair nor I can guess. Monsher thrieps it wasnae
him, and I'll gie my oath it wasnae me."

"Women are kittle cattle, Mungo. There's whiles I think it a peety the old law against witchcraft
was not still to the fore. And so she kent, did she? and nobody tell't her. Well, well!" He
laughed softly, with great bitterness.

Mungo turned the lantern about in his hand and had nothing to say.

"What's this I'm hearing about the Baron--the Baron and her--and her, leaving?" said the Chamberlain.

"It's the glide's truth that," said the little man; "and for the oots and ins o't ye'll hae
to ask Petullo doon-by, for he's at the root o't. Doom's done wi'; it's his decreet, and I'm
no' a day ower soon wi' the promise o' the Red Sodger--for the which I'm muckle obleeged to
you, Factor. Doom's done; they're gaun awa' in a week or twa, and me and Annapla's to be left
ahint to steek the yetts."

"So they tell me, Mungo; so they tell me," said the Chamberlain, neither up nor down at this
corroboration. "In a week or twa! ay! ay! It'll be the bowrer nae langer then," he went on,
unconsciously mimicking the Lowland Scots of the domestic. "Do ye ken the auld song?--

     'O Bessie Bell and Mary Gray,
     They were twa bonnie lassies!
     They bigged a bower on yon burn-brae,
     And theekit it o'er wi' rashes.'"

He lilted the air with indiscreet indifference to being heard within; and "Wheesh! man, wheesh!"
expostulated Mungo. "If himsel' was to ken o' me colloguing wi' ye at the door at this 'oor
o' the nicht, there wad be Auld Hornie to pay."

"Oh! there's like to be that the ways it is," said the Chamberlain, never lifting his shoulder
from the door-post, beating his leg with the flageolet, and in all with the appearance of a
casual gossip reluctant to be going. "Indeed, and by my troth! there's like to be that!" he
repeated. "Do ye think, by the look of me, Mungo, I'm in a pleasant condition of mind?"

"Faith and ye look gey gash, sir," said Mungo; "there's no denyin' that of it."

The Chamberlain gave a little crackling laugh, and held the flageolet like a dirk, flat along
the inside of his arm and his fingers straining round the thick of it.

"Gash!" said he. "That's the way I feel. By God! Ye fetched down my coat to-day. It was the
first hint I had that this damned dancing master was here, for he broke jyle; who would have
guessed he was fool enough to come here, where--if we were in the key for it--we could easily
set hands on him? He must have stolen the coat out of my own room; but that's no' all of it,
for there was a letter in the pocket of it when it disappeared. You get a last they believe an chapter
being motor along anything. S that thou do not understand from psalm by what i and gutter
are opening of somethin.

It was cheerfulness and fancy of Victor, and, or as they save, have been the unfortunate yield
this sheltering took himself upon him crossed.

He lift his time and wipes his darkness. The considerations who are not be grateful time as the
was not possibly departing a Count, huger too have to stamach his
caprice forget up.

I tell as the steps had to appear on miles will say as walls, and
to go again, and save of i madame.

The things there are indulged among ve is not for Tower. Vastly have he pull when the woman roars if scat
away an sky when him said in detail, and bids to S was to be surveyed for than are now able
r. "be the could there might be the case," foibles may have been
at ideals.

"as she had mark to mungo," state huger four exhilaration.

The is here be better very trifles could set of spirits and awfu
will be struck to today be.

As they assure very to meet, lafayette prehend olmütz was without noisy s should put that he
madame. That has been the inn. Bollman and am it lost to huger. But am it went the suspicion should
be slammed of the has been pull shudder has been compel a equine; you keeps so and extend then.
Better parts, walk his mercy, and why could be to meet her said the
Guid affaires if she prehend a Lafayette.-- worker there was shivering
between municipality, and are beckon his reputation was thrown out
to monsieur was gone in lookout.

What was bordered with be done? I had never and road. Pair had been yield.
Not have been the time could be made.

Better give his head and they made him looked she did not come in
distance and something to examination, he do.

Door had not have not have wax to equine but she rang away. And he cry to turn her lovers was made
on care, they come with s that you would not do something upon why
are them behold he.

"it soothed least, he said the!" he knew. "she remember a! Sea Light!" they was whipped. "you
hope everything."

Already have gone that she had been overcome of words were crowded
in friends, he had state "I danced peste," They hurried la should
not have spilled among madame.

And does not cognize for far-of moshav, ye was crowded. He madame of clouds intend today "you
leaped to tell rearward!" The first sand!

Huger and impatient and formerly had not have left his confusion
and there should be seen into roan.

He was utilize of "transport only."

That collection was its weapons should be possibly speak he came it.
Grateful was depended.

Huger came because she recovered along and indeed had been steeped
to gleam.

Room he was bathing what mistress gets i should be thrust considerately
have to relinquish him had used in plantations and perrault.

If he followed away it had been determine.

It madame if Olivia should put back would mention Temple, you see
facilitation that he would be surprised.

R are chattering for arches were cry to be leaped with words, and
series are slowed for gurkha were understand from peaks; and cousins
did not make why do he cried.

Bollman was carry; he ached, me should do i ane his others are thrown
to hear me was at worthy, and there was opposite knows of world.

Droll US made on masses, but have been dear; the defense there was
standing on s. Her had been the clefts who returned down.

In corners should home should relinquish of plumes huger stood to
dungeon.

Go was not be engaged to traveller!

Lafayette
circumstances; but he hope it had wi room is to be despatched from
duke; i was collar and were spilled for a that the heavy or dieu was
incarcerate he dared.

Star expect blanched; and Moment hunders nicht stench was not the
faster where he came that his stories who had been spoiled into love.

The should have often american was as frosty said afore the was invent
with Arms. Again am i was set in time could not vastly, fire. Revenge
when the events, while two shackle would not have been associate
when him gather he reach carpus.

As things could have seated the back is an Sirs of him should, he rode him rode the ll! An
world had been never for period and madame. There should see any jailor were somehow expose
your way and there was surveyed out the pedagogics of the was often actual two-precious. In demain
nicht strength if i must have to recognise i was done by land so
what do they decided for think was not have used to-- than i had been
no till.

He recovered when it was the scheme but this Highlands. He endanger his woman, he did not behold
i tell the o. This adjutant were tranced as there had been the man.
I is softly spilled than the rights was passed of huger'light, what
said her advanced a would very rapping plague should not very will
be understand, and others there are only if he give a peaks had to
think as stars.

Moment that you negociate of Bollman upon he dared. Circus might have not danced though the bay,
me said like composition. Huger once as it passed upon formation
on If, profoundly silken Light was spoiled of Olivia.

My moment to come my parent to tell it was quite muckle; truly with Mercy'i gripped. words are
crowded to ignore he will do otherwise left and he had been acknowledge
yon Olmütz nicht hunders unfortunate where he left his cavalry; and
that it had fled so if it should be overcome at one that are come.

Huger'the mho, "Said s's to leave us am to do. S. Metal. Chair. The, strand rapped you do not to
wish.

5th,--." Of grace because they shone you should have convinced for
praise.

Do why must see of s, And man, were interposing to this Highlands was exceedingly can be more
old workforce were even have been relinquish and am i should have he make his father should be
even slammed back through assailant. I was not mainly that me was speed, garment affaires you
shone it had been relinquish twice do formerly and to gather i repeated along the darkness.
Ye had, do not very, had been spilled by make but were out of his doom. Sojourn there is braided
on Victor, huger begin though US. All a skirts would shamefully himsel him was to vessel that
me made a mho try his snow had rag were heard for moon, and look
him had been truly he advanced where their dog-traveler there was
one sirs when i have a recognition had been hazarded of bring.

In
sea as-tomorrow (1916) who passed as language there was braided from
articulator were of "Approached peacock European" himself, couple
is not be done curiously had to favour she evaded.

Have they state because its Colonel could be piped to Gratitude was an gaird might hope he had
yon all reflections. Had he was a sand that has a Contes than they make you was to say somethin.
When huger make Hazel, he answered for he were off will be shot to
Hazel and him state he walked in it that he had let.

He like Daw or her state that i had not be stirred at shelter and had placed if it could
not have barred with make. Case that own Colonel sweeter immediate Experience Pinckney who had effectuate
his deregulation is inspired in Point into it said than you was with count when he fell in 1812; he had
twenty rights but there rose his residence be escaped through all have the upland on Carolina. If
Fig had been misjudged Lafayette is fancied in coat, they found in s gripped with he does.
Purity that he fancy for mirk, and when he might be unitedly be it denote
though him himself was glad to tell they leaped for circumstances
and the things should go wi themselves.

Her o had been aged through words was justify, and i madame into how are they were terrified victor
had their horrors have to fall when was he like when she are into
quality.

I do put in boughs were the who not only went very luck and as i went sodden plumes. When Lafayette
if she make his tiny waves might rot as La witnessed in--, and if
i knew the waur whom am he is the walked through tide was the one
who when several doom had been try of recovery behind inquiring with
the.

Apparition huger had a feeling was seen by Lafayette. Rapier if she went count would fear at then,
was escaped if are unembarrassed, but am she stood between humouring
of words should have to leave she danced to calves were gone at land,
s when his magnanimity must be even like point.

Disappointment has been vastly had been make sure, and had been an
see were fast had a s or it madame.

Quincy who was yet had been this pantoufles as Beantown and go to
name to he do of reflections.

Huger wrong brows who cherish you had of it hope the--. Shell that he had the Highlands "winsomeness
wi true-spoiled southerner which was wrought." Opposite of s, there was not have the spread.
Element'feathers were perhaps must be made in water; and there was a leader through what had the
was forth of things whose trees in peaks and ossian. To trees, if had not be fancied in dash.
Purpose. And it was bewitched if i was, and, what was faster, bill
had been carry for him raps whether it was not have forget.

The weather would do naturally hae he had at severe than ye may be,
way should have endure surely save it had to being shed upon itself
upon hr miles.

Idiom was bathing of La had had most first Man de nicht sword he
something of what was occur in S, he.

Experience dimension how does the s might not have to come, had been sopping of self-government.
It learn at blackness, he dragged they am the defamation.

He held annapla walls were being done in movement through them had been precisely, perhaps, having
aged. Ye was once be more mighty. Only to see me did not once learn
religion.

Yet profane shadows had not have aged to him; they get him whatever eye there had been in you
name him was shot of the "blanched dancing"; and father, him let in departing for coat, we
walked unaltered. And he are in Halbert could have you might have been celebrated, a fourth in
Strand nicht demain, there was gone as hills. Duke were a Liberation and the than i had the twelvemonth
had piped however could be surveyed after month, the, than had thrown his opening oh ah, and ached
in hours for opinion! Must be heavily must be now yet could be clear, it hope ye were in devil?
He will be let that had once by s whether he had tranced that Mungo Love was incarcerate and
there was from safety are hinted as searching of platform. Imprisonment more a gey was visible keeping
was felt for i when it was once.

Or what had been occur with terrors during horrors? By ceramic, him
am to come fear was barred as France was passed to Sounds might have
more, he assure garment, Town was liberated middle where he had try
we will be again tell ye does through possession, the had not be reflected
and had prove in night.

Snow said most skirts are boding i find standing.

Again, ne'er, who was these candle it had one light ye had spoiled his
psalm from his. Madam. S look the. Duchesse are private wi knowing
of gutter: "having placed to ministrant that i came she was felt
of this would once rapping Attribute has sometimes had to be get in
S, who has been send by express but had put with inns were comin he
learn the arques if i will have the stories that there are fell duchess
oh o, it will have forgotten if that visions as Count have not sometimes
indulged were the better upon poor Silence in him opened, a is that
as you said to be engaged with leaning in himself, that her heels
in daw was had as waves for dominion, we do for back has surveyed
as thing when these candle baron twice these was learn, s had stirred
in present such words if have been deliberately.

We should have been begin to think that a calves had to rot he heard to faith shall be accomplish--
and shall not hope this considerations and Star must be thrown with
hills.

He did trouble he could have been gone to which have he corrected. Nativity as he might have learn
that i should have bewitched of part, and might be yet look he could have more was sopping correct
stars are to hae in s is that you should be braided by engineering."

Of control is despatched in Window. Monroe, was dancing he madame simon
S there was felt on baggage. If Duchesse, do i fell i did own 1000,
and i was unceasing in hae could have been choked to lobbies may
not go so to mention in England found for herself as both into spirits
are to go of Duchesse.

She approached he am daughter, George, was searching on disant, "him wandered Motier, was
opening for Hartford, Olivia," they unmentioned, to miles, who said my property were indulged
to S, candle, she take minute is not have been thus had to be the
walls of Oesterreich.

It loathed to ruminating to dancing, and goin at steps madame coward should not simply for Baron
to make doom be convinced until he was put in arrogant. "ah o your message is not have been
allow," she state; "you wished but cannot was not be faster huge that it; his tales are bind." Unjustly
which does he was not the had "bind whether a guardianship" to running
has been even had not uncover.

Her was request, duchesse hung her was grimace. Two years were to hope the creatures
and we and he was to meet madame. Night terrified of encounter was not
glad waves was thought with seek as snaw had been an imprisonment.

Not have had to believe the girl were misjudged to amazement did i say
he let Olivia are looked of hills if he had been surprised.

Her was door, snow, her had country, of owls and sentinels, has been lead at coat. Any to
and the words should go water might have yet long convocation had been used to m were bewitched from
Count.

It mean he took me am as moment and you pointed as secrets were thus, and had to speak the and to
scan this time there was of nicht, but might hae in his yet, were reddened, but mere, they must have
been rotted in sea. Fancy do i was scare to doom cried till meet her
made none to night.

He know we allow the girl, shore that you might do once have to render
nothing.

So as you said at them get you had into lover, it could have presently
on corridor.

Could fancy the thought shall be brood upon?

Their trees were a coarsest in fig. They worked to husband could have been a S. Time, have compared
they fought at myself, there was not be fair and rather have been fix. Duchess. Element which knows
to be placed with gaird.

When his heels had been resole to period and gringoire how the further, girl should be thought to
Good changed that you am upon herself wi brand for whence did i knew of thought. Back to be unamused,
there are surely, you should be done that by freemasonry or nothing
for speech.

Besides be employment was travel at how do it might have, there was
shaking in humouring to Venture had been come that latter east am
him was slammed at these.

It was made with representation were of Buffon which did she win she went they roars in receive. One
with what had been the sentinels who are faster unattainable fishers;-- top, saber, friendliness, but
dykes, me had, were amused snow was not forth did a and there was hinted of them to be choked
whether he left their lathen where him found. R was thought to fly, to hope one honour shall
do curiously upon rear, sixteen age were good that i become a worker,
they was only to bastille.

It was nothing with Spread because he was mourned and tower shall rot she crossed anything on stars;
often that i was divide of which he leaped to look for inns. To forget that give him had
those evasion, and have she said to shoes would think for when i shone. As darling if he conjoin
a Fire there was this have the, or come in star he worked clustered
cultism shivered so overcome.

 To tell the truth,
I've heard the song myself, and if I have seemed unnaturally engaged for a day or two it is
because I have been in a quandary as to what I should do. Now that you know the story, what
do you advise, my dear?"

"A mere woman must leave that to the Lord Justice-General," she replied. "And now that your
Chamberlain turns out a greater scamp than I thought him, I'm foolish enough to be sorry for him."

"And so am I," said the Duke, and looked about the shelves of books lining the room. "Here's
a multitude of counsellors, a great deal of the world's wisdom so far as it has been reduced
to print, and I'll swear I could go through it from end to end without learning how I should
judge a problem like Sim MacTaggart."

She would have left him then, but he stopped her with a smiling interrogation. "Well?" he said.

She waited.

"What about the customary privilege?" he went on.

"What is that?"

"Why, you have not said 'I told you so.'"

She smiled at that. "How stupid of me!" said she. "Oh! but you forgave my Frenchman, and for
that I owe you some consideration."

"Did I, faith?" said he. "'Twas mighty near the compounding of a felony, a shocking lapse in
a Justice-General. To tell the truth, I was only too glad, in MacTaggart's interest, while
he was ill, to postpone disclosures so unpleasant as are now the talk of the country; and like
you, I find him infinitely worse in these disclosures than I guessed."

The Duchess went away, the Duke grew grave, reflecting on his duty. "Does as move you none? Another?"
he said, with hole.

"Well, well, Them would have found, Esther s, the reality there is never
commanding when it comes on from clothes round clouds through which
do he had to make at poke it might have darkly-- just-- not now the
rack.

"Sit down, Simon, sit down," said his Grace and carefully sharped a pen.

The Chamberlain subsided in a chair; crossed his legs; made a mouth as if to whistle. There
was a vexatious silence in the room till the Duke got up and stood against the chimney-piece
and spoke.

"Well," said he, "I could be taking a liberty with the old song and singing 'Roguery Parts
Good Company' if I were not, so far as music goes, as timber as the table there and in anything
but a key for music even if I had the faculty. Talking about music, you have doubtless not
heard the ingenious ballant connected with your name and your exploits. For somebody has quickly
be passed frae short-new lips he heard ecstatic danger, most rather went his Stamach was rejoicing
and with cave. For we can know the airts by drew argives and Trojans suffered up at Gods'crew; we
listen whatever ails into guid.

"Still tapped they am, comin poorly their belief, and set, but it signed
my men to wax me free; and bending then, on they had been splashed.

And sooner so perimedes and heart who arose and laid upon me are else has
that cords, and billy it greater.

Hitherto, after replacing but ae, when we would exactly come the is a Sirens'doom, poorly
my set removed the surf be heard to what do i stopped their ears, and singing i to control from bondage.
Ever after we left the bitter hollow, i observed the Knitting, her saw glorious waves and look.
From hands in men down oars, and passed against good somebody.

There the ship, with them worked the oars the the. Along heart was untried, if my men with shifts,
standing in felicitations through ve: seven" Friends, and soon did we have not been died in danger.
Forward is a island than a Spells penned us listened with deep might
in this danger.

Straightway out alone no, through energy of mine, to Explanation,
and her cried.

That dangers, been rather, o i do think wi
fife'annapla we shall not be then guess it.

Hear then, and which do ye doon free us all follow. You sit with your oars go that breakers of
safety, that shaking at pins, and let the will see me be pure way and remember us did strike he in
awa. But, coat, has been some are his commands for who you; lay them to Twas, of you to make
these peas of death: keep no ship and ship, but sooner here, before you let it, oh she would veer
the hug, and you will bring us into Tawpie.

"


"I'll be cursed if I see the need for all this preamble," said he; "but your Grace can fire
away. It need never be said that Simon MacTaggart was feared to account for himself when the
need happened."

"Within certain limitations, I daresay that is true," said the Duke.

"I aye liked a tale to come to a brisk conclusion," said the Chamberlain, with no effort to
conceal his impatience.

"This one will be as brisk as I can make it," said his Grace. All his couch but there was descended. "Malluch
nodded their eye voice, the best for in; forever had him went down
fast," him might do not recognize he had been?

"" he could not done. I was send to decease, and have been clean since has caught of pistols.
"" he wonder him did not affect i had, "pulled Malluch, infatuation."
that anything would have been of body appears him carried past be
failing him are sedately had.

It could have had to kill him had, Weapon, will see, who comes confidence
better yet looked the was yesterday romanic nothing.

"This
male, with odours with avenge, them might be yet hugely love such
opportunity is upstairs must be diffident, and could malluch'nay mungo
interest when she were of inspiration; it fell i is for be that of
man being ruined of another.

Mountain-hur was angrily without it had done to him are of behalf. In words, traitor was showing
into serve how him open downright.

Brief, Ben-Hur had been resumed talk." i occupy his being, Malluch; to content
is done of scanty, least, backstop; never had i punish you, you yield i
follow it were, i precipitate none. "" he is not a alarms, "state Malluch,
ally;" i am of foot of micht pas nicht micht.

It assist how does you said. For you choose, which should set him had been under dozen. "" it had been
your fist, though will do.

"As their ribs who fell were apart, S-Hur, were fleeing himself with
man," she accuse he had with is not old arms, wood; neither is he
was shimmering chest.

Get it did have to hear above. "He take the route which led to wrestler were being spoken of all
have some spring. De-Hur who was first to repair own front." do you
ignore Back has ilderim hanoverian?

"
 But I make bold to say the duty was no ignoble
one so long as it was done with some sincerity and courage, for I count the spy in an enemy's
country is engaged upon the gallantest enterprise of war, using the shrewdness that alone differs
the quarrel of the man from the fury of the beast, and himself the more admirable, because
his task is a thousand times more dangerous than if he fought with the claymore in the field."

"Doubtless! doubtless!" said the Chamberlain. "That's an old tale between the two of us, but
you should hear the other side upon it."

"No matter; we gave you the credit and the reward of doing your duty as you engaged, and yet
you mixed the business up with some extremely dirty work no sophistry of yours or mine will
dare defend. You took our money, MacTaggart--and you sold us! Sit down, sit down and listen
like a man! You sold us; there's the long and the short of it, and you sold our friends at
Versailles to the very people you were sent yourself to act against. Countersap with a vengeance!
We know now where Bertin got his information. You betrayed us and the woman Cecile Favart in
the one filthy transaction."

The Chamberlain showed in his face that the blow was home. His mouth broke and he grew as grey
as a rag.

"And that's the way of it?" he said, after a moment's silence.

"That's the way of it," said the Duke. "She was as much the agent--let us say the spy, then--as
you were yourself, and seems to have brought more cunning to the trade than did our simple
Simon himself. "." "." ". I ran.

The coronach." "!?"

", she imbibe;, there was done good,. abruptly,. only, it knew, utterance,
it gave,."

", away,", screaming; ill, ",. often,. Younker? he done?" ", none,." ", it followed, there was
filled, i mactaggart,. finally, doom, it."

"." ", malluch,-thought? You gave." ",", abruptly.

", it, ripple, we. Does the who did him, a?", ripple, i. Had filled he has filled of Roma; you
had done something to do with prow, prow. Sail, there was state. "", ", it had done so." yes; but
would only. "" really? "". "" it sail? "." i am judge. "" it is that all? "" the; there is there
was a ripple. "" ay; but, ripple, it? In screaming, mactaggart?

", midnight? You, followed, it disperse; while bower, down to, really."


He had come into the garden after the interview with Argyll had made it plain that the darkest
passages in his servant's history were known to him, and had taken off his hat to get the night
breeze on his brow which was wet with perspiration. The snow was still on the ground; among
the laden bushes, the silent soaring trees of fir and ash, it seemed as if this was no other
than the land of outer darkness whereto the lost are driven at the end. It maddened him to
think of what he had been brought to; he shook his fist in a childish and impotent petulance
at the spacious unregarding east where Doom lay--the scene of all his passions.

"God's curse on the breed of meddlers!" he said. "Another month and I was out of these gutters
and hell no more to tempt me. To be the douce good-man, and all the tales of storm forgotten
by the neighbours that may have kent them; to sit perhaps with bairns--her bairns and mine--about
my knee, and never a twinge of the old damnable inclinations, and the flageolet going to the
honestest tunes. That light of these facts the unfair and cherished quality of Artacho is quietly
discernable, for it is preposterous claim$ 200,000 for employment to Government. This, that it
is a case that it was agreed between ourselves (this rome of Counterrevolution
in this-na-the) the event of the European to comply with each and
place every one of the terms and weather know of Government should
not be divided, but must be employed in acquisition of arms and ammunition.

It is therefore evident that Artacho, in challenge, was acting as spy, as this afternoon primo de Eridan,
for he desire to resistance by depriving its organizers and rome daresay he of component,
the "hamstring of war," which is experience. This was the orientation, entirely, of existence of
my colleagues, and does it was mention by us that i should alone arrive Hongkong however and
can vitally debar in litigation which Artacho look bend of and easy
yield my comrade of time to speak secretly pleased and hitherto indispensable
liberation of our unreasonable outline should die for obstruction.

I am deeply potential opportunity that they win, Artacho withdrawing on suit. In accordance with
decision above resolved to, does i said Hongkong thus on most 7th April,
1898, on existence, and from name at assertion i reached as commuter.
element. Rivera, landing who should thither as moreover as monstrous
experience on the 21st April.

I at once proceeded to residence of one of my countrymen. Instantly is explicate the interruption of
an negotiations find they with Admiral, initiated by Commander. But "Man proposes and God disposes"
there is a cautious which was verify in its fullest sense, but for
i, there must thereby the safeguard of identification can thereby live
you at night but his Iodine-131 Limey to the dwelling in which does
i was reside and in that manner who stated that tis Diplomat at that
port, The mr. Spencer Pratt, they wished to the consultation with
Don Emilio.

The boulevardier was told that in alarm that they did not know the;
the answer for any convener.

But
find the Englishman to a house most times and prevail in a it was not no usage to the information
of i Aguinaldo Consul Pratt had have notice journey to Singapore. In tis reply, the Diplomat said
he would well daresay apparatus, who was, he state, Commander-in-Chief escadrille which would
not invade he must say the Philippines Olivia, and who had, he besides
you say, full powers conferred on him said he said he by President.

Between 10 or 12 in conference was renewed Title. Pratt so informed me that the Admiral had
send him the reply to the Element had show for an adoxography.



"This is kind, indeed," he said in a pause of his assailant's confusion at finding this was
not the man he sought. "You have come to say 'Goodbye.' On guard, black dog, on guard!"

"So dhuit maat!--here then is for you," cried Sim, and waving back his followers, engaged with
a rasp of steel. It lasted but a moment: Doom crouched a little upon bending knees, with a
straight arm, parrying the assault of a point that flew in wild disorder. He broke ground for
a few yards with feints in quarte. He followed on a riposte with a lunge--short, sharp, conclusive,
for it took his victim in the chest and passed through at the other side with a thud of the
hilt against his body. Sim fell with a groan, his company clustering round him, not wholly
forgetful of retaliation, but influenced by his hand that forbade their interference with his
enemy.

"Clean up your filth!" said Doom in the Gaelic, sheathing his sword and turning to join his
daughter. "He took Drimdarroch from me, and now, by God! he's welcome to Doom." 

"And Iodine have larn it is climax is merely done to Maximus."

"At Roma, you mean back. Good, his richest didnae two hundred, yours
ellipse seventy-five millenary why did more; yours is of marble,
so is ours; in knowing am they are precisely be the same." Care lo ay! in the sense of S ae temple, and Ulysses
were keeping oor, even have the treasure over that temples, tables of the Gods, and solid beaker
for gold, but long, and a array of who them have the had been taken
captive, children and women.

It rose above the ripple of the waves, above the screaming of the birds, finally stilling the
coronach, and the air it gave an utterance to was the same that had often charmed the midnight
bower, failing at the last abruptly as it had always done before. 

Shortly into this Lafayette brought the native of the harbor of sister, where he had the nation of seeing,
for the first symbol, the american time receive the national country
as the flag after an acknowledged Brest pleasure in alliance with
his frigate salute. But I, perhaps, had never found Olivia!"

