INDIAN LEGENDS

AND

OTHER POEMS.

INDIAN LEGENDS

AND

Other Poems.

BY

MARY GARDINER HORSFORD.

NEW YORK: J. C. DERBY, 119 NASSAU STREET.

BOSTON: PHILLIPS, SAMPSON, & CO. CINCINNATI: H. W. DERBY.

1855.

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1855, by MARY GARDINER HORSFORD, in the Clerk's
Office of the District Court of the District of Massachusetts.

HOLMAN & GRAY, Printers and Stereotypers.

TO MY FATHER,

SAMUEL S. GARDINER, ESQ.,

This Volume is Inscribed,

AS A

SLIGHT TESTIMONIAL OF A DAUGHTER'S GRATITUDE

AND AFFECTION.

CONTENTS.

INDIAN LEGENDS.

                                                 PAGE
THE THUNDERBOLT                                    11

THE PHANTOM BRIDE                                  16

THE LAUGHING WATER                                 23

THE LAST OF THE RED MEN                            27

MISCELLANEOUS.

THE PILGRIM'S FAST                                 36

PLEURS                                             40

THE LEGEND OF THE IRON CROSS                       46

MY NATIVE ISLE                                     53

THE LOST PLEIAD                                    57

THE VESPER CHIME                                   60

THE MANIAC                                         68

THE VOICE OF THE DEAD                              72

"A DREAM THAT WAS NOT ALL A DREAM"                 75

THE JUDGMENT OF THE DEAD                           78

THE HIGHLAND GIRL'S LAMENT                         82

TO MY SISTER ON HER BIRTHDAY                       89

THE POET'S LESSON                                  92

MADELINE.--A LEGEND OF THE MOHAWK                  95

THE DEFORMED ARTIST                               104

THE CHILD'S APPEAL                                110

THE DYING YEAR                                    115

SONG OF THE NEW YEAR                              119

I WOULD NOT LIVE ALWAY                            123

THE FALL OF JERUSALEM                             126

THE FIRST LOOK                                    132

THE DAUGHTER OF JEPHTHAH AMONG THE MOUNTAINS      135

MONA LISA                                         141

SPRING LILIES                                     145

LINES TO D. G. T., OF SHERWOOD                    149

LITTLE KATE                                       152

A THOUGHT OF THE STARS                            155

A MOTHER'S PRAYER                                 160

NOTES                                             165

INDIAN LEGENDS.

     THE THUNDERBOLT.

     There is an artless tradition among the Indians, related by Irving,
     of a warrior who saw the thunderbolt lying upon the ground, with a
     beautifully wrought moccasin on each side of it. Thinking he had
     found a prize, he put on the moccasins, but they bore him away to
     the land of spirits, whence he never returned.

     Loud pealed the thunder
       From arsenal high,
     Bright flashed the lightning
       Athwart the broad sky;
     Fast o'er the prairie,
       Through torrent and shade,
     Sought the red hunter
       His hut in the glade.

     Deep roared the cannon
       Whose forge is the sun,
     And red was the chain
       The thunderbolt spun;
     O'er the thick wild wood
       There quivered a line,
     Low 'mid the green leaves
       Lay hunter and pine.

     Clear was the sunshine,
       The hurricane past,
     And fair flowers smiled in
       The path of the blast;
     While in the forest
       Lay rent the huge tree,
     Up rose the red man,
       All unharmed and free.

     Bright glittered each leaf
       With sunlight and spray,
     And close at his feet
       The thunder-bolt lay,
     And moccasins, wrought
       With the beads that shine,
     Where the rainbow hangeth
       A wampum divine.

     Wondered the hunter
       What spirit was there,
     Then donned the strange gift
       With shout and with prayer;
     But the stout forest
       That echoed the strain,
     Heard never the voice of
       That red man again.

     Up o'er the mountain,
       As torrents roll down,
     Marched he o'er dark oak
       And pine's soaring crown;
     Far in the bright west
       The sunset grew clear,
     Crimson and golden
       The hunting-grounds near:

     Light trod the chieftain
       The tapestried plain,
     There stood his good horse
       He'd left with the slain;
     Gone were the sandals,
       And broken the spell;
     A drop of clear dew
       From either foot fell.

     Long the dark maiden
       Sought, tearful and wide;
     Never the red man
       Came back for his bride;
     With the forked lightning
       Now hunts he the deer,
     Where the Great Spirit
       Smiles ever and near.

     THE PHANTOM BRIDE.

     During the Revolutionary war, a young American lady was murdered,
     while dressed in her bridal robe, by a party of Indians, sent by
     her betrothed to conduct her to the village where he was encamped.
     After the deed was done, they carried her long hair to her lover,
     who, urged by a frantic despair, hurried to the spot to assure
     himself of the truth of the tale, and shortly after threw himself,
     in battle, on the swords of his countrymen. After this event, the
     Indians were never successful in their warfare, the spectre of
     their victim presenting itself continually between them and the
     enemy.

     The worn bird of Freedom had furled o'er our land
     The shattered wings, pierced by the despot's rude hand,
     And stout hearts were vowing, 'mid havoc and strife,
     To Liberty, fortune, fame, honor, and life.

     The red light of Morning had scarcely betrayed
     The sweet summer blossoms that slept in the glade,
     When a horseman rode forth from his camp in the wood,
     And paused where a cottage in loneliness stood.
     The ruthless marauder preceded him there,
     For the green vines were torn from the trellis-work fair,
     The flowers in the garden all hoof-trodden lay,
     And the rafters were black with the smoke of the fray:
     But the desolate building he heeded not long,
     Was it echo, the wind, or the notes of a song?
     One moment for doubt, and he stood by the side
     Of the dark-eyed young maiden, his long-promised bride.
     Few and short were their words, for the camp of the foe
     Was but severed from them, by a stream's narrow flow,
     And her fair cheek grew pale at the forest bird's start,
     But he said, as he mounted his steed to depart,
     "Nay, fear not, but trust to the chief for thy guide,
     And the light of the morrow shall see thee my bride."
     Why faltered the words ere the sentence was o'er?
     Why trembled each heart like the surf on the shore?
     In a marvellous legend of old it is said,
     That the cross where the Holy One suffered and bled
     Was built of the aspen, whose pale silver leaf,
     Has ever more quivered with horror and grief;
     And e'er since the hour, when thy pinion of light
     Was sullied in Eden, and doomed, through a night
     Of Sin and of Sorrow, to struggle above,
     Hast thou been a trembler, O beautiful Love!

       'T was the deep hush of midnight; the stars from the sky
     Looked down with the glance of a seraph's bright eye,
     When it cleaveth in vision from Deity's shrine
     Through infinite space and creation divine,
     As the maiden came forth for her bridal arrayed,
     And was led by the red men through forest and shade,
     Till they paused where a fountain gushed clear in its play,
     And the tall pines rose dark and sublime o'er their way.
     Alas for the visions that, joyous and pure,
     Wove a vista of light through the Future's obscure!
     Contention waxed fierce 'neath the evergreen boughs,
     And the braves of the chieftain were false to his vows;
     In vain knelt the Pale-Face to merciless wrath,
     The tomahawk gleamed on her desolate path,
     One prayer for her lover, one look towards the sky,
     And the dark hand of Death closed the love-speaking eye.

       They covered with dry leaves the cold corpse and fair,
     And bore the long tresses of soft, golden hair,
     In silence and fear, through the dense forest wide,
     To the home that the lover had made for his bride.
     He knew by their waving those tresses of gold,
     Now damp with the life-blood that darkened each fold,
     And, mounting his steed, pausing never for breath
     Sought the spot where the huge trees stood sentries of Death;
     Tore wildly the leaves from the loved form away,
     And kissed the pale lips of inanimate clay.

     But hark! through the green wood what sounded afar,
     'T was the trumpet's loud peal--the alarum of war!
     Again on his charger, through forest, o'er plain,
     The soldier rode swift to his ranks 'mid the slain:
     They faltered, they wavered, half turning to fly
     As their leader dashed frantic and fearlessly by,
     The damp turf grew crimson wherever he trod,
     Where his sword was uplifted a soul went to God.
     But that brave arm alone might not conquer in strife,
     The madness of grief was conflicting with Life;
     His steed fell beneath him, the death-shot whizzed by,
     And he rushed on the swords of the victors to die.

     'Neath the murmuring pine trees they laid side by side,
     The gallant young soldier, the fair, murdered bride:
     And never again from that traitorous night,
     The red man dared stand in the battle's fierce storm,
     For ever before him a phantom of light,
     Rose up in the white maiden's beautiful form;
     And when he would rush on the foe from his lair,
     Those locks of pale gold floated past on the air.

     THE LAUGHING WATER.

     The Indian name for the Falls of St. Anthony signifies "Laughing
     Water," and here tradition says that a young woman of the Dahcotah
     tribe, the father of her children having taken another wife,
     unmoored her canoe above the fall, and placing herself and children
     in it, sang her death-song as she went over the foaming declivity.

     The sun went down the west
       As a warrior to his grave,
     And touched with crimson hue
       The "Laughing Water's" wave;
     And where the current swept
       A quick, convulsive flood,
     Serene upon the brink
       An Indian mother stood.

     With calm and serious gaze
       She watched the torrent blue
     And then with skilful hand
       Unmoored the birch canoe,
     Seized the light oar, and placed
       Her infants by her side,
     And steered the fragile bark
       On through the rushing tide.

     Then fitfully and wild
       In thrilling notes of woe
     Swept down the rapid stream
       The death-song sad and low;
     And gathered on the marge,
       From many a forest glen,
     With frantic gestures rude,
       The red Dahcotah men. 

The evil deed and its consequences.

  
  

And this little thread is still spun so fine In the end it comes to light but the sun.

Suddenly we heard noise at the door and said: - "the little princess would come to to see the animals.
"Everything looked out for her, and rejoiced over their friendly greetings and pretty on her dress.
- As she stood before the cage of the great lion, they gave a loud cry of surprise and horror of,
because she knew at first sight their Rosaurus. She would also take the same hand through the bars to the small
Favorite pet and to comfort her, but she pulled back startled Gogo Mlle. - The owner of Menagerie
was once asked how he had come to the kitten? and he said that he did a unknown boy had bought,
which still at that moment been here - he would immediately look
for him.

William was not found, however, and went to the very natural, for when he talks heard about the kitten,
he was bang in our hearts and he crawled under a table on which parrots stood, and the lower
chamber was fitted with a canvas curtain, and then he was rescued safely. Through a hole he could
see everything that was going on in the menagerie hear, and he could also Everything. He had as
his witness, as the owner of the kitten from the menagerie lion cage
sought and received a dollar, while he had only paid a penny for it.

Wilhelm quite annoyed that he did not even such a good deal.

He was however very scary under the table to courage, for it was under the same a great ape in confinement,
which the unqualified intruder with the long arms scratched in the neck, and under the cage of
the monkey was that of a brooding pelican, which, also indignant about the disorder, Wilhelm
bit as bad, that the trousers torn and the blood flowed. He who has had so little meat seats in
the school feared that in this way to be quite unfit to sit down and when the requesting end,
he used the moment where a fat man had brought to the table to crawl
out and behind to keep this hidden.

But since the evil in his heart could never sleep, so it escaped his attention not that the
fat man is a very well-stocked market, from which he had just an extra tip paid for the snake,
had put into the left pocket. The snake ate namely have just a dove in his usual cruel way
by the friendly face of the world the same and licked by their saliva was slippery and smooth,
then they moved the poor beast unmercifully in her throat, and you
could feel it in the deep throat still struggling.

Wilhelm said the fat man certainly would look so carefully that he would not notice if his delicate
hand to him in his pocket and took out the stock market and in a trice was this hand even indoors.
But at that moment felt Wilhelm, that it from another, more powerful Hand was taken, which already
had under his coat that has been suspended, and his was at the same time Elbow taken, and with great
force to a jerk of his arm like a dry piece of wood bruised. Wilhelm screamed in shock and pain
and when the fat man turns to him, because he recognized him as the same, which recently gave him
two slaps and a penny had.

It was the police, Mr President. "Aha, said this, we already know, and now hope I steal, you
will not soon again. "

The whole audience was aware of the crying boy and become the Princess would pity him and give him
something.

But the menagerie owner told her that it the same boy, who had sold their Rosaurus was for
the lion, also were found when emptied of his pockets a lot of stolen items. "No, this deserves
no pity," said the people.

But he still suffered great pain, pale and trembling, he stood there and all eyes were on he directed,
a surgeon, who happened to be nearby, examined his arm and said,
the same should be immediately established.

"This shall be done in my house," said Police President, "I want him to cater to me and can also
bear all costs. His parents are good certainly not much else would the boy not be so cunning. "

It was taken away because Williams, as the little princess with her after Rosaurus Went home and
undertook, his life much more pleasant to do than before. - You could not imagine how he had come
in the bad boy's hands and as Mlle Gogo finally moved further inquiries,
and one after the description of William and after the work bag, he
still had, long recognized as the cause of Jenny Rosaurus disappearance,
as was the latter declared that they should never be invited back
for the little princess which was a major penalty and a great shame,
however.

Her father then sent in an institution and it was hoped that she would like to return from
there.

It was pretty good, that William was in good care, because at home
there was indeed at all.

His Father had cut off the timber read a young tree and was caught, one had he has to work
as a punishment for Waldbusser and because the mother could earn nothing, was not Money at home.

In
the house of the President, however, there was nothing. Wilhelm was in the neat bed in a lovely chamber.
A friendly maid served him and nursed him. got the first few days it merely to enjoy soup
and water-cooling beverage, later, caused a stronger food; a friendly physician visited him every
day and the President brought him pictures and books and sat for hours on his bed, to tell him
stories, he knew that very beautiful: from clever children, rather than their spiritual gifts
to learning something useful or be addressed, they used to other people to trick and deceive,
and he also told of crimes, which were long kept secret, but finally
came to light and the offenders brought to punishment.

The finger of God.

In a small town there lived a happy family, the parents were good and the Children brought up
well. Only one son, named Louis was, by his violent character often cause for dissatisfaction,
yet he had a vindictive mind, and in the hour of his anger He had many a friend has hurt you and
often hurt the siblings difficult. Despite all Ideas he had not taken this error, and he was
now 16 years confirmirt, and even always interrupted from time to
time, at insignificant occasion, from his blind rage and expressed
has any misdeed, the effects however, were never so important that
they are a different punishment as the complaints had caused the father.

One

day Louis was advised by the son of a landowner while dancing in dispute, in Fury kindled,
he wanted to go with his fist on his opponent, but this, more like he seized him by the collar
and threw him out the door.

Brooding revenge Ludwig went home, he had to pass before a working farm, which his father his
opponent was and should be used to its inheritance. He could be offensive probably no greater
inflict mischief, as if he burned the same. Was still it in the excitement of anger and he quickly
grabbed the lighter and threw some smoldering Of sponge in the window. Since this is not the same
set fire, he took a wax-candle, which had been on the sister tree, and threw it into the burning
straw. - Then he went on. He had hardly done the evil deed, as his anger and he slept she began
to repent, and he hoped it would not catch fire. When he but one hour to bed was, he heard the
alarm of fire. He hurried to the fire site, he helped with rescue and delete; He was tireless
and shrink from no danger. He even brought a child from the flames, where he himself was badly
damaged, but nothing could appease the raging throb of his heart. The estate was burned down, the owner
thanked those who had of saving behülflich and Ludwig were above all others, the thanks that
this very painful. He would like his belongings' and property devoted to compensate him. - Man
is tormented by suspicions of who the fire neither the landlord nor his son were Someone insulted;;
have created it knew no enemy, they had found nothing of the incendiaries, when a wax stick,
which was extinguished and had not fulfilled its purpose. There are so many wax stick gives
the World. This could not possibly lead to the culprit.

Ludwig became daily more serious and introspective. His cheeks turned pale, he slept not at
night, his conscience tormented him, and he was afraid they might discover yet again, that he
was an incendiary, and punish him for it. One day he was picked up really and interrogated.
- One of the investigating judge was Ludwig's father together in the residence and they have
been together the colorful wax candles had bought for the Christmas tree, so he knew where
such lights had no sooner was this track is found, we thought of the controversy, what Ludwig
had the night before the fire. Then they noticed his restless nature, his pale cheeks. He was
interrogated, confessed and was sentenced to many years in prison. Thus, even the mysterious comes
to light.

Christian, the son of a laborer was, once past a garden where apricots to a tree hung. The fruits
were ripe and had the most beautiful red cheeks. "The I want to remember me, "thought the boy naschlustige,"
tonight, when it is dark, the coming of . And I'll get it to me "- When he was gone, came Peter,
the son of the shepherd and his father had sent him to beg and he came home with a bag full
Brodrinden. But he was very tired and he was still far from home, he lay down in front of the garden
gate, which is a kind of shelter offered, and fell asleep. - He awoke by a noise and saw someone
climb over the wall. Christian had indeed looked around cautiously, but the resting in the
shadow of the door Shepherd boy to be discovered. The little saw Peter on the other hand the moonlight
the Entrant, wanted to disturb him but not because he feared the same could beat him. He lay
So on the other side and slept on. The next morning he was rudely by the gardener awakened, who
held him for the thief and dragged him before the police certainly did; But Peter protested
his innocence, he showed the contents of his beggar's bag and called because everything did not
help the real thief. Really was the gardener, which is equal in Christian Housing was the stolen fruit,
while Christian still fast asleep, it had a Part of the night by watching and was firmly convinced
that no one had seen him. - God sees But always and know to steer whatsoever, then, that human
justice is experienced and achieved that here on earth, the punishment to the criminals.

In the beginning of Wilhelm heard just grumpy, he had had this pain and pain Man who sat before
him caused. Gradually, however, softened the loving words his mind, and it was he often felt
as it would suddenly his soul day, falling as a veil before his eyes down and he realized a
truth, this truth was, however: Honesty is the best.

One day, when William had had a painless night and leave for the first time the bed could, of course,
with festgeschientem arm, asked the president, he with his kind gentle Voice, "I say quite frankly,
because what you actually with your hand in my pocket wanted? "

Wilhelm. I wanted to get out your wallet.

President. Did you not know that it was stolen?

Wilhelm. Oh, yes! I knew very well.

President. Did not you know that stealing was wrong?

Wilhelm.

I do not know so very well, I knew only that one is punished, if
one find yourself left and I have never caught me (here Wilhelm smiled
triumphantly).

President. Did you steal for the pleasure?

Wilhelm. Yes! very large, especially when I started it right and if
I sent a large Effort succeeded.

Also, I was happy when I brought something home, and at home could all you need.

President. Did your parents because that what you brought home, was stolen property?

Wilhelm was silent embarrassment, he was afraid to betray his parents,
"parents," he said, sent me out with his sister to beg - but it went
too slow, we brought little together, barely enough to buy bread and
I wanted to but sometimes a bit Eat cake.

It looks so nice things about the Condi gates stand at the window, which gives pleasure to snack
and I found it unfair that the rich should only enjoy such good things.

"

President.

When God created rich and poor, he must have been very wise intentions. The Arms can by the way
rich, the rich become poor, the poor will be rich but only through
work, not due to theft, for the sin lies not a blessing.

I will give you resources with which type that can make you rich
if you want to be honest and hardworking.

Wilhelm.

Yes, I will!

President. Well, so give me a hand on you to take no more foreign property to you will.

William promised.

President. Also, promise me never to lie.

Wilhelm is also promised.

President. I will take you to a school where you get educated and informed, then I let you learn
a craft, which can feed you, and you can choose you one.

Wilhelm. I would like to become a baker or confectioner.

President. Haha! probably because of the good cake.

Wilhelm.

I mean, it must be a pleasure to prepare what so many people well
tastes.

  
  

President. Well done, my boy, it's right, if not only to themselves but also think of others.
Are you still angry with me that I'll broke his arm in my pocket. I can in my own pocket but
do what I want and what is not lost call in, must have all fallen.

Wilhelm. I am now very happy that you broke my arm and I will always be very grateful if you
let me learn something bold.

When the President met one day the little princess asked them:

"What makes the little bad boy?"

"He's not a bad boy anymore," said the President, "and it would be
no bad guy type in the world if not the parents were angry. "He then
told how educated William been and that he still had other siblings.
The princess asked now is whether this so bad would? Was allowed to
inquire after them and soon heard only good things about Dorothy and
the Princess let her dress and send in a knitting and sewing. The
small but Hannah was in a small child-care at school, where they pray,
sing, knit, and pretty little verse learned, were thought to also
help them to brush his nose and to wash their hands, which they at
home was not necessary, they also had to be pretty decent. The President
said, to such As you save the children from the ruin, and lead their
souls to heaven.

Chapter 10

The great adventure. 

Lose the courage
not in danger God watches and protects thee.

Every day the Princess
visited the Lions and spent an hour in the menagerie. You the animal
was very grateful that he had not eaten her kittens, and wanted him
their Show gratitude by giving him every day brought a few pounds
of meat. This meat was pretty cut into pieces and recovered paper
in a dainty little basket, which the servant her grudge. The pieces
of meat they gave themselves the lion through the bars and they did
not make it as owner of the menagerie at feeding time, which it the
Meat, after he had passed it, with the iron hook so often eluded to
him to make very bad and give the audience an example of his bestial
fury. No, they gave it to the lion really fast, and without fear.
The lion knew soon his little benefactress, especially if they brought
Rosaurus that you usually on the Sat shoulder. If she entered with
her entourage, he lay quite meek before the grid down, and received
grateful his gift, taking with Rosaurus he used to purr to the bet.

     THE VESPER CHIME.

     She dwelt within a convent wall
       Beside the "blue Moselle,"
     And pure and simple was her life
       As is the tale I tell.

     She never shrank from penance rude,
       And was so young and fair,
     It was a holy, holy thing,
       To see her at her prayer.

     Her cheek was very thin and pale;
       You would have turned in fear,
     If 't were not for the hectic spot
       That glowed so soft and clear.

     And always, as the evening chime
       With measured cadence fell,
     Her vespers o'er, she sought alone
       A little garden dell.

     And when she came to us again,
       She moved with lighter air;
     We thought the angels ministered
       To her while kneeling there.

     One eve I followed on her way,
       And asked her of her life.
     A faint blush mantled cheek and brow,
       The sign of inward strife

     And when she spoke, the zephyrs caught
       The words so soft and clear,
     And told them over to the flowers
       That bloomed in beauty near.

     "I know not," thus she said to me,
       "If my young cheek is pale,
     But daily do I feel within
       This life of mine grow frail.

     "There is a flower that hears afar
       The coming tempest knell,
     And folds its tiny leaves in fear,--
       The scarlet Pimpernel:

     "And thus my listening spirit heard
       The rush of Death's cold wing,
     And tremulously folded close,
       In childhood's early Spring.

     "I never knew a parent's care,
       A sister's gentle love:
     They early left this world of ours
       For better lands above.

     "And so I loved not earthly joys,
       The merry dance and play,
     But sought to commune with the stars,
       And learn the wind's wild lay.

     "The pure and gentle flowers became
       As sisters fair to me:
     I needed no interpreter
       To read their language free.

     "And 'neath the proud and grand old trees
       That seemed to touch the sky,
     We prayed, alike with lowly head,
       The violets and I.

     "And years rolled on and brought to me
       But woman's lot below,
     Intensest hours of happiness,
       Intensest hours of woe.

     "For one there was whose word and smile
       Had power to thrill my heart:
     One eve the summons came for him
       To battle to depart.

     "And when again the setting sun
       In crimson robed the west,
     They bore him to his childhood's home,--
       The life-blood on his breast.

     "Another day, at vesper chime,
       They laid him low to sleep,
     And always at that fated hour
       I kneel to pray and weep.

     "'T is said the radiant stars of night,
       When viewed through different air,
     Appear not all in golden robes,
       But various colors wear.

     "And through another atmosphere,
       My spirit seemed to gaze
     For never more wore life to me
       The hues of other days.

     "Once to my soul unbidden came
       A strange and fiery guest,
     That soon assumed an empire there,
       And never is at rest.

     "It binds the chords with arm of might,
       And strikes with impulse strong;
     I know not whence the visitant,
       But mortals call it song.

     "It never pants for earthly fame,
       But chants a mournful wail
     For ever o'er the loved and dead,
       Like wind-harps in a gale."

     She said no more, but lingered long
       Upon that quiet spot,
     With such a glory on her brow,
       'T will never be forgot!

     Next eve at nine, for prayers we met,
       And missed her from her place;
     We found her sleeping with the flowers,
       But Death was on her face.

     We buried her, as she had asked,
       Just at the vesper chime;
     The sunbeams seemed to stay their flight,
       So holy was the time.

     I've heard that when the rainbow fades
       From parting clouds on high,
     It leaves where smiled the radiant arch
       A fragrance in the sky:

     It may be fantasy, I know,
       But round that hour of Death
     I always found an aroma
       On every zephyr's breath.

     And this is why the twilight hour
       Is holier far to me,
     Than gorgeous burst of morning light,
       Or moonbeams on the sea.

     THE MANIAC.

     A story is told in Spain, of a woman, who, by a sudden shock of
     domestic calamity, became insane, and ever after looked up
     incessantly to the sky.

     O'er her infant's couch of death,
       Bent a widowed mother low;
     And the quick, convulsive breath
       Marked the inward weight of woe.

     Round the fair child's forehead clung
       Golden tresses, damp and bright;
     While Death's pinion o'er it hung,
       And the parted lips grew white.

     Reason left the mother's eye,
       When the latest pang was o'er;
     Then she raised her gaze on high,
       Turned it earthward nevermore.

     By the dark and silent tomb,
       Where they laid the dead to rest;
     By the empty cradle's gloom,
       And the fireside once so blest;

     In the lone and narrow cell,
       Fettered by the clanking chain,
     Where the maniac's piercing yell
       Thrilled the heart with dread and pain;--

     Upward still she fixed her gaze,
       Tearless and bewildered too,
     Speaking of the fearful night
       Madness o'er the spirit threw;

     Upward, upward,--till in love
       Death removed the veil of Time,
     Raised the broken heart above,
       To the far-off healing clime.

     Mortal! o'er the field of Life
       Pressing with uncertain tread;
     Mourning, in the torrent strife,
       Blessings lost and pleasures fled;--

     A sublimer faith was taught
       By the maniac's frenzied eye,
     Than Philosophy e'er caught
       From intensest thought and high.

     When the heart is crushed and broken
       By the death-bell's sullen chime,
     By the faded friendship's token,
       Or the wild remorse of crime,

     Turn to earth for succor never,
       But beyond her light and shade,
     Toward the blue skies look forever:
       God, and God alone, can aid.

     THE VOICE OF THE DEAD.

     Oh! call us not silent,
       The throng of the dead!
     Though in visible being
       No longer we tread
     The pathways of earth,
       From the grave and the sky,
     From the halls of the Past
       And the star-host on high,
     We speak to the spirit
       In language divine;
     List, Mortal, our song,
       Ere its burden be thine.

     Our labor is finished,
       Our race it is run;
     The guerdon eternal
       Is lost or is won;
     A beautiful gift
       Is the life thou dost share;
     Bewail not its sorrow,
       Despise not its care;
     The rainbow of Hope
       Spans the ocean of Time;
     High triumph and holy
       Makes conflict sublime.

     Work ever! Life's moments
       Are fleeting and brief;
     Behind is the burden,
       Before, the relief.
     Work nobly! the deed
       Liveth bright in the Past,
     When the spirit that planned
       Is at rest from the blast;
     Work nobly! the Infinite
       Spreads to thy sight,
     The higher thou soarest
       The stronger thy flight.

     And when from thy vision
       Loved faces shall wane,
     And thy heart-strings thrill wildly
       With anguish and pain;
     The voices that now
       Are as faint as the tone
     Of the Zephyr, that stirs not
       The rose on its throne,
     Shall burst on thy soul,--
       An orchestra divine,
     With seraph and cherub
       From Deity's shrine.

     "A DREAM THAT WAS NOT ALL A DREAM."

     Through the half-curtained window stole
       An Autumn sunset's glow,
     As languid on my couch I lay
       With pulses weak and low.

     And then methought a presence stood,
       With shining feet and fair,
     Amid the waves of golden light
       That rippled through the air,

     And laid upon my heaving breast,
       With earnest glance and true,
     A babe, whose fair and gentle brow
       No shade of sorrow knew.

     A solemn joy was in my heart,--
       Immortal life was given
     To Earth, upon her battle-field
       To discipline for Heaven.

     Soft music thrilled the quiet room,--
       An unseen host were nigh,
     Who left the infant pilgrim at
       The threshold of our sky.

     A new, strange love woke in my heart,
       Defying all control,
     As on the soft air rose and fell
       That birth-hymn for a soul!

     And now again the Autumn skies,
       As on that evening, shine,
     When, from a trance of agony,
       I woke to joy divine.

     That boundless love is in my heart,
       That birth-hymn on the air;
     I clasp in mine, with grateful faith,
       A tiny hand in prayer.

     And bless the God who guides my way,
       That, mid this world so wide,
     I day by day am walking with
       An angel by my side.

     THE JUDGMENT OF THE DEAD.

     Diodorus has recorded an impressive Egyptian ceremonial, the
     judgment of the dead by the living. From
     this singular law not even kings were exempt.

         With sable plume and nodding crest,
         They bore him to his dreamless rest,
             A cold and abject thing;
         Before the whisper of whose name
         Strong hearts had quailed in fear and shame,
             While nations knelt to fling
         The victor's laurel at his feet;
         Now gorgeous pall and winding-sheet,
         Were all that royalty could bring
         To mark the despot and the king:
     In solemn state they swept the glowing strand,
     To meet the conclave of the judgment band.

         And soon, with bright, exultant eye,
         Where fierce revenge flashed wild and high,
             Accusers gathered fast;
         From prison-keep and living grave
         Came forth the mutilated slave,
             With faltering step aghast;
         And sightless men with silver hair,
         The record of their dungeon air,
         Who for long years had sought to die,
         And wrestled with their agony
     Till thought grew wild and intellect grew dim,
     The clanking fetters' mark on every limb.

         With pallid cheek and eager prayer
         And maniac laugh of dark despair
             The widowed mother stood;
         And, with white lips, an orphan throng
         Rehearsed a fearful tale of wrong
             And misery and blood.
         And strong in virtue others came,
         Unnumbered victims to proclaim
         Of vengeance, perfidy, and dread,
         Who slumbered with the silent dead.
     The world might start, the sable plumes might wave,
     But for that haughty king there was no grave.

         O! ye who press life's crowded mart,
         With hurrying step and bounding heart,
             A solemn lesson glean;
         Beware, lest, when ye cross that stream
         Whose breaking surges farthest gleam,
             No mortal eye hath seen,
         Discordant voices wake the shore
         The struggling spirit would explore,
         And to the trembling soul deny
         Its latest resting-place on high;
     Our acts are Judges, that must meet us there
     With seraph smiles of light, or fiendish glare.

     THE HIGHLAND GIRL'S LAMENT.

     The ancient Highlanders believed the spirits of their departed
     friends continually present, and that their imagined appearances
     and voices communicated warnings of approaching death.

     Oh! set the bridal feast aside,
       And bear the harp away;
     The coronach must sound instead,
       From solemn kirk-yard gray.

     I heard last eve, at set of sun,
       The death-bell on the gale.
     It was no earthly melody:--
       The eglantine grew pale;

     And leaf and blossom seemed to thrill
       With an unuttered prayer,
     As, fraught with desolateness wild,
       The strange notes stirred the air.

     And on the rugged mountain height,
       Where snow and sunbeam meet,
     That never yet in storm or shine
       Was trod by human feet,

     A weird and spectral presence came
       Between me and the light;
     The waving of a shadowy hand
       That faded into night.

     I felt it was the first who left
       Our little household band,--
     The child, with waving locks of gold,
       Now in the silent land.

     And when the mist at morn arose
       From Katrine's silvery wave,
     A form of aspect ominous,
       With pensive look and grave,

     Moved from the waters towards the glen
       Where stands the holly-tree;
     'T was the brother who is sleeping low
       Beneath the stormy sea.

     And while to-night the curfew bell
       Rang out with solemn chime,
     As soundeth o'er the buried year,
       The organ peal of time,

     And, near the fragrant jessamine,
       I mused in garden glade,
     A phantom form appeared to me
       Beneath the hawthorn shade.

     The dews had wept their silent tears,
       The moon was up on high,
     And every star was sphered with calm,
       Like an archangel's eye;

     And melancholy music swept
       With cadence low and sweet,
     Such as ascends when spirit-wings
       Around a death-bed meet.

     O was it not a mother's heart
       That gave that warning sign;
     The loving heart that used to thrill
       To every grief of mine?

     I oft have deemed, in sunny hours,
       When life with love was fraught,
     The nearness of the dead to us
       A fantasy of thought.

     But, standing on the barrier
       I used to view with pain,
     I feel the chains of severed love
       Are linking close again. But the less one Seldwylers at
home what is good, the better he keeps strangely enough, if he disengages, and whether take
them off individually or in company, as in earlier wars, they have nevertheless always well kept.
Even as a speculator and businessman has already looked around a bit to some vigorous, when he came
out only from the first warm sunny valley where he did not prosper.

In such a funny and strange city, it can be connected to all sorts of strange stories and lives
not fail because an oath that all vice is the beginning. But no such stories as are described
in the character of Seldwyla, I really want in this booklet , But tell some strange Abfaellsel that
happened something in between meals to some extent, exception, could
go and yet only just Seldwyla on.

* * * * *

Pancrazio, THE Schmoller

On a quiet Seitenplaetzchen, near the city walls, lived the widow of a Seldwylers, the finished long
ago and was below the ground. This was not one of the worst been, but he felt such a strong
desire, an ordinary man and a fixed be that it the dominant tone,
which he could not escape as a young man, attacked; and as his heyday
and he was forced to cede voruebergegangen according to the custom
of the scene the action, noting that it all seemed like a wild dream
and like a scam to life, and He got them to exhaustion and died without
delay.

He left his widow a small ramshackle little house, a potato field before Goals and two children,
a son and a daughter. With the distaff she earned milk and butter to boil the potatoes, which
they planted, and a small widow's pension, the of poor relief paid out annually after him every
time a few weeks of the date also used in its shops, handed straight to the clothing needs
and some other small expenses out. This money was always expected with pain by the poor Garments
of the children just to those extended weekend too early to utter were defective and had intimated
the butter pot everywhere for a reason. The vistas of green Pot soil was such a regular annual
phenomenon, as any in the sky, and changed as regularly for a while the cool, nasty, quiet
satisfaction the family in a real discontent. The children tormented the mother to better and
more abundant food, for they held in their ignorance for powerful enough to do this because it
everything to her, her only protection was their only Oberbehoerde. The mother was Unhappy that
the children not to eat either more sense, or more, or both were given together.

Said children but showed different properties.

     Where the waters of the Mohawk
       Through a quiet valley glide,
     From the brown church to her dwelling
       She that morning passed a bride.
     In the mild light of October
       Beautiful the forest stood,
     As the temple on Mount Zion
       When God filled its solitude.

     Very quietly the red leaves,
       On the languid zephyr's breath,
     Fluttered to the mossy hillocks
       Where their sisters slept in death:
     And the white mist of the Autumn
       Hung o'er mountain-top and dale,
     Soft and filmy, as the foldings
       Of the passing bridal veil.

     From the field of Saratoga
       At the last night's eventide,
     Rode the groom,--a gallant soldier
       Flushed with victory and pride,
     Seeking, as a priceless guerdon
       From the dark-eyed Madeline,
     Leave to lead her to the altar
       When the morrow's sun should shine.

     All the children of the village,
       Decked with garland's white and red,
     All the young men and the maidens,
       Had been forth to see her wed;
     And the aged people, seated
       In the doorways 'neath the vine,
     Thought of their own youth and blessed her,
       As she left the house divine.

     Pale she was, but very lovely,
       With a brow so calm and fair,
     When she passed, the benediction
       Seemed still falling on the air.
     Strangers whispered they had never
       Seen who could with her compare,
     And the maidens looked with envy
       On her wealth of raven hair.

     In the glen beside the river
       In the shadow of the wood,
     With wide-open doors for welcome
       Gamble-roofed the cottage stood;
     Where the festal board was waiting,
       For the bridal guests prepared,
     Laden with a feast, the humblest
       In the little village shared.

     Every hour was winged with gladness
       While the sun went down the west,
     Till the chiming of the church-bell
       Told to all the hour for rest:
     Then the merry guests departed,
       Some a camp's rude couch to bide,
     Some to bright homes,--each invoking
       Blessings on the gentle bride.

     Tranquilly the morning sunbeam
       Over field and hamlet stole,
     Wove a glory round each red leaf,
       Then effaced the Frost-king's scroll:
     Eyes responded to its greeting
       As a lake's still waters shine,
     Young hearts bounded,--and a gay group
       Sought the home of Madeline.

     Bird-like voices 'neath the casement
       Chanted in the hazy air,
     A sweet orison for wakening,--
       Half thanksgiving and half prayer.
     But no white hand drew the curtain
       From the vine-clad panes before,
     No light form, with buoyant footstep,
       Hastened to fling wide the door.

     Moments numbered hours in passing
       'Mid that silence, till a fear
     Of some unseen ill crept slowly
       Through the trembling minstrels near,
     Then with many a dark foreboding,
       They, the threshold hastened o'er,
     Paused not where a stain of crimson
       Curdled on the oaken floor;

     But sought out the bridal chamber.
       God in Heaven! could it be
     Madeline who knelt before them
       In that trance of agony?
     Cold, inanimate beside her,
       By the ruthless Cow-boys slain
     In the night-time whilst defenceless,
       He she loved so well was lain;

     O'er her bridal dress were scattered,
       Stains of fearful, fearful dye,
     And the soul's light beamed no longer
       From her tearless, vacant eye.
     Round her slight form hung the tresses
       Braided oft with pride and care,
     Silvered by that night of madness
       With its anguish and despair.

     She lived on to see the roses
       Of another summer wane,
     But the light of reason never
       Shone in her sweet eyes again.
     Once where blue and sparkling waters
       Through a quiet valley run,
     Fertilizing field and garden,
       Wandered I at set of sun;

     Twilight as a silver shadow
       O'er the softened landscape lay,
     When amid a straggling village
       Paused I in my rambling way.
     Plain and brown the church before me
       In the little graveyard stood,
     And the laborer's axe resounded
       Faintly, from the neighboring wood.

     Through the low, half-open wicket
       Deeply worn, a pathway led:
     Silently I paced its windings
       Till I stood among the dead.
     Passing by the grave memorials
       Of departed worth and fame,
     Long I paused before a record
       That no pomp of words could claim:

     Simple was the slab and lowly,
       Shaded by a fragrant vine,
     And the single name recorded,
       Plainly writ, was "Madeline."
     But beneath it through the clusters
       Of the jessamine I read,
     "Spes," engraved in bolder letters,--
       This was all the marble said.

     THE DEFORMED ARTIST. And soon, after the fatigue of these last days, he was sunk in deep sleep. Neither the rustling
of the forests outside in the dark autumn night, nor the art of the small bird Zeitruf from the room
next door penetrated into the depths of his slumber. Even had the highest Stage of the night
climbed, twelve times Over There had shouted it from the Clock, he slept without dreaming further
and further moved the night. One is called the Clock, - then two, - then three! Since came
the dreams, and what swum on the day just how scary mist before his eyes, now it was lit in colored
shapes in pale or bright light, no Time of the day angehoerte .-- How pale he hung in Frank's
arms! And strangely, always wanted Her eyes did not see! But there behind the trees groaned and
threw the Jaeger stood .-- He is about on his bed, broke out of his mouth violent, disjointed
sounds. Suddenly He went up and sat upright, in the pillow, the reverberation of a sound was in any
his ears, and now he knew it, the court must have come down below it. In the same Moment he
stood at the window, hardly the first gray dawn had begun, but yet he saw it as just slammed the
heavy gate. As yet in a dream he had one of his two guns away by a wall, a window rattled,
and the clapping went Ball down there in the Bohlentor.

Then everything was quiet.

He tore the other pistol from the wall, and without clothes, naked Shirt, he crashed out of the
room, the way out he grabbed the hook on the door, but the key is missing.

"Leo, Leo!" he cried out on the stairs. "My dog, where are you?" - Nothing stirred. Still Suddenly
he cried, and then climbed down into the still dark hallway.

As his feet were held up by something that did not yield what, and when he bent down, ran his hand
over long silky hair .-- He let out a loud scream. Again he bent down, then he ran - he did
not know even why - in the room of his old Servant, but the deaf old woman sat calmly breathing
in her bed, he took on the table standing light detonated at it and went back out into the hall.
There lay his dog, the legs stretched stiff, her brown eyes big star and open. He threw himself
down and shone ascend close to the candle, a bluish Flor seemed the luster of the eye cover,
cold and, as in silent action, she stared at him .-- Suddenly he felt as if the walls would clear, as he
saw two young figures about the heath and flee the burning light of morning Disappear.

He jumped up and stood in the next few moments in Franziska's chamber .-- It was empty, the bed
touched only lightly, you could see they had only to catch the volatile stretched to the ceiling;
the pillow was still the impression, where she was resting her arm.
     And in the spirit-land that lies
       Beyond, so calm and gray,
     I shall aspire with truer aim:--
       Ave Maria! pray!"

     THE CHILD'S APPEAL.

     AN INCIDENT OF THE FRENCH REVOLUTION AND REIGN OF ROBESPIERRE.

     Day dawned above a city's mart,
       Yet not 'mid peace and prayer:
     The shouts of frenzied multitudes
       Were on the thrilling air.

     A guiltless man to death was led,
       Through crowded streets and wide,
     And a fairy child, with waving curls,
       Was clinging to his side.

     The father's brow with pride was calm,
       But, trusting and serene,
     The child's was like the Holy One's
       In Raphael's paintings seen.

     She shrank not from the heartless throng,
       Nor from the scaffold high;
     But now and then, with beaming smile,
       Addressed her parent's eye.

     Athwart the golden flood of morn
       Was poised the wing of Death,
     As 'neath the fearful guillotine
       The doomed one drew his breath.

     Then all of fiercest agony
       The human heart can bear,
     Was suffered in the brief caress,
       The wild, half-uttered prayer.

     Then she, the child, beseechingly
       Upraised her eyes of blue,
     And whispered, while her cheek grew pale,
       "I am to go with you!"

     The murmur of impatient fiends
       Rang in her infant ear,
     And purpose strong woke in her heart,
       And spoke in accent clear:--

     "They tore my mother from our side,
       In the dark prison's cell;
     Her eyes were filled with tears,--she had
       No time to say farewell.

     "And you were all that loved me then,
       And you are pale with care,
     And every night a silver thread
       Has mingled with your hair.

     "My mother used to tell me of
       A better land afar,
     I've seen it through the prison bars
       Where burns the evening star.

     "O let us find a new home there,
       I will be brave and true;
     You cannot leave me here alone,
       O let me die with you!"

     The gentle tones were drowned by shrill
       And long-protracted cries;
     The father on his darling gazed,
       The child looked on the skies.

     Anon, far up the cloudless blue,
       Unseen by mortal eye,
     God's angels with two spirits passed
       To purer realms on high.

     The one was touched with earthly hues,
       And dim with earthly care,
     The other, as a lily's cup,
       Unutterably fair.

     THE DYING YEAR

         With dirge-like music, low,
     Sounds forth again the solemn harp of Time;
     Mass for the buried hours, a funeral chime
         O'er human joy and woe.
     The sere leaves wail around thy passing bier,
     Speed to thy dreamless rest, departing year!

         Yet, ere thy sable pall
     Cross the wide threshold of the mighty Past,
     Give back the treasures on thy bosom cast;
         Earth would her gems recall:
     Give back the lily's bloom and violet's breath,
     The summer leaves that bowed before the reaper Death.

         Give back the dreams of fame,
     The aspirations strong for glory won;
     Hopes that went out perchance when set thy sun,
         Nor left nor trace nor name:
     Give back the wasted hours, half-uttered prayer,
     The high resolves forgot that stained thine annals fair.

         Give back the flow of thought,
     That woke within the poet's yearning breast,
     Soothing its wild and passionate unrest;
         Love's rainbow-visions, wrought
     Of youth's deep, fearless trust, that light the scroll
     With an intenser glow,--records of heart and soul!

         Give back--for thou hast more--
     Give back the kindly words we loved so well,
     Voices, whose music on the spirit fell,
         But tenderness to pour;
     The steps that never now around us tread,
     Faces that haunt our sleep: give back, give back the dead.

         Give back!--who shall explore
     Creation's boundless realms to mark thy prey?
     Who mount where man has never thought to sway,
         Or science dared to soar?
     Oh! who shall tell what suns have set for aye,
     What worlds gone out, what systems passed away?

         Not till the stars shall fall,
     And earth and sky before God's mandate flee,
     Shall human vision look, or spirit see,
         Beneath thy mystic pall:
     But hark! with accent clear, and flute-like swell,
     Floats up the New Year's voice,--Departed one, farewell!

     SONG OF THE NEW YEAR.

     As the bright flowers start from their wintry tomb,
     I've sprung from the depths of futurity's gloom;
     With the glory of Hope on my unshadowed brow,
     But a fear at my heart, earth welcomes me now.
     I come and bear with me a measureless flow,
     Of infinite joy and of infinite woe:
     The banquet's light jest and the penitent prayer,
     The sweet laugh of gladness, the wail of despair,
     The warm words of welcome, and broken farewell,
     The strains of rich music, the funeral knell,
     The fair bridal wreath, and the robe for the dead,
     O how will they meet in the path I shall tread! 

Sali directed his first step towards the river, where he was expected Verena, but the way he
was different sense and went straight to the village to Verena in the house to collecting, because
to him there lasted until half past ten! "What we take care of the people!" he thought. "No
one help us and I am honest and fear no one! "So he came unexpectedly in Verena's office and
just as suddenly he was sitting there already fully dressed and adorned and the time waiting
to go where it can only be the shoes were still missing him. But Sali stood with open Mouth shut
in the middle of the room when he saw the girl, so nice it looked. It had a simple dress of
blaugefaerbter canvas, but the same was fresh and clean and sat him very slim on the hips.
About it there was a snow-white muslin scarf and this was the whole suit. The brown curly hair was arranged
very well and the other so wild curls were now fine and lovely to the head, as Verena, for many
weeks almost did not come out of the house, so was its color became more delicate and transparent,
so as well as of grief, but in this transparency now poured the love and joy Red for the other,
and wore it on the breast a beautiful bouquet of rosemary, roses and gorgeous asters. It sat
at the open window, breathing quietly and hold the fresh sun-drenched Morning air, but when
it did appear Sali, it held out both pretty poor, which were only from the elbow and called out: "How
right do you have that you are now and here come! But you have brought me shoes? Surely? Now
I stand not on till I wearing! " He longed for from his pocket and gave them to the eager beautiful
girl, and it threw from the old to put on the new and they fit very well. Only now it rose from
the chair, swaying in their new shoes and went eagerly up and down several times. It moved the long,
blue dress something back and looked at the red woolen wohlgefaellig grinding, which adorned the
shoes, while Sali incessantly looked at the fine sexy figure, which as in sweet excitement in
front of him was moving and happy. "You think beschaust Strauss?" Verena said, have "'I am not
a nice put together? You must know, these are the last flowers I have found in this wilderness.
Here was a rose, there a switch, and how they are now bound, it would not look at them that they
culled from a destruction are! Now it is time that I can not get away, a flower more in the
garden and the house was empty too! "Sali looked around and noticed only now that all movable
property ", which still existed was taken away. "You poor Vreeli!" he said, "have they have
taken you all this? "" Yesterday, "it said," they have taken away's, which from move the point
left, and left me just over my bed. I've also equal sold and I now also money, look! "It brought
out some new shiny Talerstuecke the pocket of his robe and showed it to him. "This," continued
she, "said the orphans Vogt, also here was intended, I look for a service in a city and I should
now do the same on the way! "" There is absolutely nothing more available, "said Sali, after he
had peeped into the kitchen, "I see no sticks, no pans, no knife! Do you have not eaten since
morning too? "" Nothing, "said Verena," I would have to get something , Can but I thought I
would rather stay hungry so I eat pretty much could with you, because I am so very sure you
do not believe, as I am! " "If I touch you just might," Sali said, "I wanted to show you how
it is to me You beautiful, beautiful thing! " "You're right, would you ruin my whole state,
and if we protect the flowers a little bit, so it is also my poor head benefit the thou dost
amiss to make ready! "


     Fierce raged the consumer insatiate and strong,
     And cursed was its light by that soul-stricken throng,
     Who beheld their destruction and anguish and shame,
     Engraved by the lurid and forked tongues of flame,
     On pillar and pommel and chapiter high,
     Distinct as the law they had dared to defy,
     Was traced through the cloud where the Deity shone
     By the finger of God on the tablets of stone;
     They beheld e'en the Holy of Holies consume;
     Then with frenzied bemoaning lamented their doom.

     The cedars of Lebanon thrilled with the wail
     That swept like a torrent Jehoshaphat's vale;
     Mount Tabor and Zion re-echoed afar
     The voice of lamenting for Judah's lost star;
     The Kedron replied from its sanctified glade;
     The olive-leaves shook in Gethsemane's shade;
     And a strange world came forth from the regions of space
     And hung like a sword o'er the grave of that race;
     While the watchman, who terror-struck gazed on the sight,
     Not a signal gave forth from his fire-girded height,
     But breathlessly muttered, with cold lips and pale,
     "'T is the tenth day of Lous,--Jerusalem, wail!"

     Day dawned o'er Judea, but never again
     Might the sunbeam in splendor flash back from her fane.
     No prophet stood forth, and, with prescience sublime,
     Told of light in the Future unkindled by Time:
     No poet-king sounded his lyre o'er her tomb;
     No ruler went up 'mid the cloud's awful gloom
     And fervently plead with Jehovah's fierce ire;
     No God on Mount Sinai descended in fire;
     The eyes of the daughters of Rachel were dim;
     The priesthood were anguished by visions of HIM
     Who, patient and God-like, climbed Calvary's side;
     The ancient men sorrowed by Siloah's tide,
     And Israel to shame and oppression were sold,
     To bondage and exile for ages untold;
     And the hearts of the captives grew hollow and dry
     As the fruit that o'er Sodom hangs fair to the eye.

     THE FIRST LOOK.

     I heard the strokes of the midnight bell
       As they thrilled the quiet air,
     And saw the soft, white curtains wave
       In the lamp's uncertain glare;
     And felt the breath of the July night,
     Laden with fragrance and warmth and blight.

     I knew that scarcely an hour before,
       With plaintive and feeble wail,
     A spirit had entered the gates of time,
       A being helpless and frail;
     That cradled beside me the stranger lay,
     Though I had not dared o'er her face to pray.

     But roused by the voice of the midnight chime,
       O'er the little one I bent,
     And soft, sweet eyes were upraised to mine,
       As blue as the firmament,--
     Eyes that had never beheld the day,
     Or the chastened light of the moonbeam's ray.

     O wonderful meeting, on the verge
       Of Life and the dark BEYOND!
     O wonderful glance from soul to soul
       United by tenderest bond!
     The one corroded with earth and care,
     The other as falling snow-flakes fair;--

     The one oppressed with contrition's tear,
       Familiar with grief and sin,
     The other with naught but the angel's face
       Who ushered the human in;
     The one a wrestler with Fate's decrees,
     The other environed with saintly ease;--

     The one acquainted with Death and change,
       And with anguish faint and pale,
     The other as fresh as the earliest rose
       That opened in Eden's vale.
     Dear Lord! that ever the blight should fall,
     That sin should sully and Death appall!

     THE DAUGHTER OF JEPHTHAH AMONG THE MOUNTAINS. Therefore beduenkte
it will now incomprehensible and miraculous moment in which there was a whole life, as they
are now well after thirty years, so to speak for the first time encompassed by the son saw.
But this Estherchen altered beduenkte being so serious and important that she, who had laughed
at the pouting thousand times, now is not in the least the converted Yours was able to laugh,
but with clear tears in his eyes after their armchairs went and looked at his brother intently.

Pancras
was the first to be adopted together after several minutes, and as
a good Soldier and a passage way effected by the fact that he heraufbefoerderte
his luggage.

The mother wanted to help with Estherchen, but he had extremely gracious to her seat back and
suffered only that Estherchen came down to the car and with some slight Things loaded. Later, however,
led the cause Estherchen that soon their good Humor won again and could not refrain any longer
the lion's skin in the long massive tail to pack and go about on the floor by himself and was
sick laugh once over the other cried, "What this is only for a fur What is this monster?"

"This," said Pancrazio, pushing his foot on the hide, "three months ago a living Loewe was that I
killed. This guy was my teacher and proselytizers and me twelve hours
preached so forcefully that I at last poor guy of all pouting Boessein
and was cured for good.

In memory of his skin is no longer out of my hand . Come That was a nice story, "he added with a sigh.

In
the expectation that at least his folks, in case he antraefe still alive; Precious little in
the house had realized he had in the last major city where he traveled by, a basket of good wine
purchased, and a basket of various good food, so should result in Seldwyla not familiar with,
and he quietly with his mother and sister supper could take.

The latter need the mother to cover only the table and Pankraz wore on, some fried chicken,
a wonderful Suelzpastete and a fine little package Cakes, or even more! On the way he had considered
how dark once the poor Tranlaempchen burned and how many times he is angry about the miserable
light, and he hardly his Seven things skillfully handle idle, though the mother, who had but older
eyes, he always pushed the light in my face, turn to the great delight Estherchens, every
occasion he understood wegzupraktizieren the light again. Oh, once he had extinguished angry
tears, and when the mother worried again set aflame, Estherchen blew them laughing again, whereupon
he ran torn heart to bed. This and other things he had not in the way, and by experiencing painful
and hard bang did, whether he would again see the Forsaken, he had also bought some candles, jetzo
and detonated two of them on so that the womenfolk did not contain himself with wonder whether
all the glory.

In such a way as it went from a small wedding in the little house of the widow, but much quieter,
Pankraz and used the bright light of the candles, the aged faces of his mother and sister to see,
and this vision moved him stronger than all the dangers he face looked. He fell into a deep melancholy
about the human senses and human nature Life, and just like our smaller properties, a friendly
or bitter disposition, not only our destiny and luck to make, but
also that of those around us and fortune bring us to this in a strict
Schuldverhaeltnis without us knowing how it happened, because we do
not even really our mind given.



     Visions haunt us from our childhood
       Of a love so pure, so true,
     Time and tears, and care and anguish,
       Leave it steadfast, fair and new;--

     Visions that elude for ever,
       As the silent years depart,
     Some unhappy ones and weary,--
       Mona Lisas of the heart.

     Gleams of that divine completeness
       God's angelic ones attain,
     Pass amid our toils before us,
       And we emulate in vain.

     Poet fancies crowd the spirit,
       We would print upon the scroll--
     But that perfect utterance faileth--
       Mona Lisas of the soul.

     SPRING LILIES.

     'Neath their green and cool cathedrals,
       In the garden lilies bloom,
     Casting to the fresh Spring Zephyrs
       Peal on peal of sweet perfume.
     Often have I, pausing near them
       When the sunset flushed the sky,
     Seen the coral bells vibrating
       With their fragrant harmony.

     And, within my quiet dwelling,
       I have now a Lily fair,
     Whose young spirit's sweet Spring budding
       Watch I with unfailing care:
     God, in placing her beside me,
       Made my being most complete,
     And my heart keeps time for ever
       With the music of her feet.

     I remember not, while gazing
       In her earnest eyes of blue,
     That the earth has aught of sorrow
       Aught less innocent and true;
     And the restlessness and longing
       Wakened by the cares of day,
     With the burden and the tumult,
       In her presence fall away.

     Shield my Lily, Holy Father!
       Shield her from the whirlwind's might,
     But protracted sunshine temper
       With a soft and starry night;
     'Neath the burning suns of Summer,
       Withered, scorched, the spring-flower lies,
     Human hearts contract, when strangers
       Long to clouds and tearful eyes.

     Give her purpose strong and holy,
       Faith and self-devotion high;
     These Life's common by-ways brighten
       Every hope intensify.
     Teach her all the brave endurance
       That the sons of earth require;
     May she, with a patient labor,
       To the great and good aspire.

     Should some mighty grief oppress her,
       Heavier than she can bear,
     Oh! sustain her by Thy presence,
       Hear and answer Thou her prayer:
     And whene'er the storms of winter
       Round my precious Lily reign,
     To a fairer clime transplant her,
       There to live and bloom again.

     LINES TO D. G. T., OF SHERWOOD.

     Blessings on thee, noble boy!
       With thy sunny eyes of blue,
     Speaking in their cloudless depths
       Of a spirit pure and true.

     In thy thoughtful look and calm,
       In thy forehead broad and high,
     We have seemed to meet again
       One whose home is in the sky.

     Thou to Earth art still a stranger,
       To Life's tumult and unrest;
     Angel visitants alone
       Stir the fountains in thy breast.

     Thou hast yet no Past to shadow
       With a fear the Future's light,
     And the Present spreads before thee
       Boundless as the Infinite.

     But each passing hour must waken
       Energies that slumber now,
     Manhood with its fire and action
       Stamp that fair, unfurrowed brow.

     Into Life's sublime arena,
       Opening through the world's broad mart,
     Bear thy Mother's gentle spirit,
       And her kind and loving heart. 

"I will never! Could do it for you?"

"That's does not matter, my heart!" Sali said, stroking his cheeks hot, depending after her passionately
on his chest turned them over, "it is now all about you; you are
still so very young and you can still go well in every way!

"

"And do not you, old man?"

"Come!"

Sali said, pulling it away. But they were only a few steps and stood again still, in order to
embrace more comfortable and to heart. The silence of the world sang
and played music them by the souls, we only heard the river rushing
down gently and sweetly in the slow Drawing.

"How beautiful it is
there all around, do you hear sound was not something like a nice
song or a ringing! "

     For her sweet sake I've cast aside
       The books I've loved so well,
     And given up my being to
       Affection's mighty spell;
     Ambition's visions vanish all,
     Before the music of her call.

     The fancy of the past, that lent
       To jewels bright and rare
     Ascendency at every birth
       In this our planet's air,
     Hath to October's children given
     The opal with its hues of Heaven.

     The golden sunlight in the sky,
       The red leaf on the plain;
     Beneath the opal's changeful light
       Hope and Misfortune reign;
     And mid gay leaves of wondrous dyes,
     My darling first unclosed her eyes. Among these were some who, with violinist well known seemed strange
and looked in her costume zusammengewuerfelten. Especially a young Fellow noticed who was wearing
a green corduroy jacket and a tattered straw hat to he had tied a ring of mountain ash or Vogelbeerbuescheln.
This led one wild person with him, wearing a coat of cherry red, and calico weissgetuepfeltem
Shot down by a puncture vines tied around his head, so that at each temple, a blue grape hung.


     And if in some sweet inner sphere,
       Some home of love apart,
     An angel's duty she fulfil
       With but a woman's heart,
     Haply the red leaf, in its advent, may
     Find Hope o'er sorrow dominant for aye.

     A THOUGHT OF THE STARS.

     I remember once, when a careless child,
       I played on the mossy lea;
     The stars looked forth in the shadowy west,
       And I stole to my mother's knee,

     With a handful of stemless violets, wet
       With the drops of gathering dew,
     And asked of the wonderful points of light
       That shone in the distant blue.

     She told me of numberless worlds, that rolled
       Through the measureless depths above,
     Created by infinite might and power,
       Supported by infinite love. Tell me now, without delay:
where it is, from you know? "For the enumeration of all these glories and functions, associated with
a good women, had the dry mouth Warlock only of watery made. Spiegel said, surprised: "Will you really
make the thing, Mr. Pineiss?"

"Of course, I want Who else but I drum out with it:? Where is the
one?"

"So that your free to go and they could?"

"Without a doubt!"

"To know, the thing is only my hand with me you must speak, if you
want money and women!

"Spiegel said coldly and indifferently, and passed his the two eager
paws over his ears, after they each made a little wet.

Pineiss remembered carefully, groaned a little and said, "I see you
like our Contract may be revoked and exculpate your head!

"

"The track you so uneven and unnatural?"

"You cheat me at the end and lie to me like a rogue!"

"It is also possible!" said Spiegel.

"I tell you: Do not cheat me!" Pineiss cried imperiously.

"Well, I do not deceive you!" said Spiegel.

"If you do's!"

"So I do it."

"Do not plague me, mirrors!" said Pineiss
almost tearful, and said mirror now seriously: "You are a wonderful
person, Mr. Pineiss Since you say that I am at a Cord pulls caught
and the fact that the breath passes me! You let the sword of death
hover over me for longer than two hours, I say! last six years! and
now you say, not torture me, mirrors!

"If you allow, I tell you,
in a nutshell: It may be my only love, that love of duty against the
dead but to satisfy even the conscious and for women a suitable man
to find, however, and you seem to meet in all respects, it is no ease
accommodate an old bag well, so this seems very well, and I say again,
I 'm glad you see this, let get ready!

     A MOTHER'S PRAYER.

     I knelt beside a little bed,
       The curtains drew away,
     And, 'mid the soft, white folds beheld,
       Two rosy sleepers lay;
     The one had seen three summers smile
       And lisped her evening prayer;
     The other,--only one year's shade
       Was on her flaxen hair.

     No sense of duties ill performed
       Weighed on each heaving breast,
     No weariness of work-day care
       Disturbed their tranquil rest;
     The stars to them as yet were in
       The reach of baby hand,
     Temptation, trial, grief, were words
       They could not understand.

     But in the coming years I saw
       The turbulence of life
     O'erwhelm this calm of innocence
       With melancholy strife;
     "From all the foes that lurk without,
       From feebleness within,
     What Sovereign guard from Heaven," I asked,
       "Will strong beseeching win?"

     Then to my soul a vision came,
       Illuming, cheering all,
     Of him who stood with shining front
       On Dothan's ancient wall;
     And, while his servant's heart grew faint
       As he beheld with fear
     The Syrian bands encompassing
       The city far and near,

     With lofty confidence to his
       Sad questioning replied,
     "Those armies are outnumbered far
       By legions at our side:"
     Then up from starry sphere to sphere,
       Was borne the Prophet's prayer,
     "Unfold to his blind sight, O God!
       Thy glorious hosts and fair."

     The servant's eyes bewildered gazed
       On chariots of fire,
     On seraphs clad in mails of light,
       Resistless in their ire;
     On ranks of angels marshalled close,
       Where roving comets run,
     On silver shields and rainbow wings,
       Outspread before the sun.

     I saw the Syrian hosts, at noon,
       Led sightless through the land,
     And longed to grasp the Prophet's robe
       Within my feeble hand;
     While my whole soul went out in deep
       And passionate appeal,
     That faith like his might set within
       My babes' pure hearts its seal.

NOTES.

Page 66.

In Syria, where the atmosphere is less humid than ours, the whole heavens are said to sparkle
at night, as with various-colored gems.

Page 94.

MADELINE.--A Legend of the Mohawk.--The events narrated in this poem occurred during the struggle
of the American Colonies for Independence, immediately after the battle of Saratoga, in a small
village on the banks of the Mohawk.

Page 99.

     By the ruthless Cow-boys slain.

"Cow-boys" was the term applied to the corps of freebooters attached to the British army.

Page 127.

     And the gall-drops were poured from the drawn-sword of Death. He would have not let it ,
Can he put into his hand as he caressed even this last trace of their lives. As rattled through
accidental contact with the gun in his other hand and suddenly shot A new current of thought
in his head. He was already outside on the stairs, but he came no more .-- What did he want
more - once before his hands had become red. Slowly He climbed the stairs to his bedroom, he shot
the weapon attached to your place; Then he dressed himself completely. When he finished, he stepped
into the living room, pulled the curtains the window and opened it with his keys the tray of the
desk, where the securities had their place.


Page 129.

It is related by Josephus, that when the Jews perceived the conflagration of the Holy House,
they broke out into such groans and outcries that all the mountains round about the city returned
the echo.

Page 130. "Not yet!" said Spiegel.

As they stretched the yarn from the chimney over and sat down beside quiet and wise: The air was
dark and there was a slight Morgenwindchen in which a few constellations
flickered.

Page 136.

"And the said unto her father, Let me alone two months, that I may go up and down upon the
mountains."--Judges 11:37.

Page 163.

2 Kings 6:15, 19.

