Expressive Voice Culture

      Including

  The Emerson System

         By

JESSIE ELDRIDGE SOUTHWICK

Teacher of Voice Culture in the Emerson College of Oratory.

Preface

The Emerson System treats the voice as a natural reporter of the individual, constantly emphasizing
the tendency of the voice to express appropriately any mental concept or state of feeling.

This treatise is a setting forth of methods and principles based upon this idea with a fuller
elaboration of the relation of technique to expression. No attempt is here made, however, to
present more than an individual contribution to this broad subject.

J. E. S.

Expressive Voice Culture.

CHAPTER I

Principles of Voice Culture.

The first essential to one beginning the study of voice culture is an appreciation of the real
significance of voice development. We must recognize at once the fact that the voice is a natural
reporter of the conditions, emotions, thoughts, and purposes (character and states or conditions)
of the individual. The ring of true culture in the voice is that perfect modulation of tone
and movement which, without self-consciousness, communicates exactly the meaning and purpose
which impel the utterances of the speaker.

It is almost impossible for any person to cultivate vocal expression to the best advantage
without an intelligent and sympathetic teacher; he lacks the perspective upon himself which
is necessary in order to correct his individual faults and draw out his most effective powers.
Then, again, he needs that personal supervision and direction of his efforts which will allow
his mind to be constantly occupied with thoughts and principles, and relieve him of all temptation
to watch his own performances as such. But it is necessary that the student should have a simple
and logical basis for practice, however great may become the variety of its application.

That the voice is naturally expressive is shown in the fact that even where there is no possible
suggestion of cultivation we instinctively read the broad outlines of meaning and feeling in
the tones and inflections of the voice. May it not therefore be possible that a finer culture
will reveal all the subtle shades of thought and feeling, and a more discriminating judgment
be able to detect these, just as the ethnologist will reconstruct from some crude relic the
history of an earlier civilization?

We must remember, too, that first of all the voice is a vital instrument. The physical condition
affects most noticeably the quality, strength, and movement of the voice. Hence we see that
physical health is essential to a good voice, and the proper use of the voice is itself one
of the most invigorating exercises that can be practised. All the vital organs are called into
healthful action through this extraordinary manipulation of the breath, and the nervous system,
both vitally and emotionally, receives invigoration.

In the beginning, therefore, such vital conditions as are essential to the production of tone
should be considered.

First, a standing position, in which the vital organs are well sustained, is essential. One
cannot even breathe properly unless one stands well. The weight should be mainly upon the balls
of the feet, and the crown of the head so positively elevated as to secure the erectness of
the spinal column. This will involve the proper elevation of the chest, the essential freedom
of respiration, and the right sustaining tension of the abdominal muscles.

(a) Take standing position as follows: weight on balls of feet, heels together, toes slightly
apart; line of gravity from crown of head, well lifted, to balls of feet; the ear, point of
shoulder, and point of hip should be in line; muscles of the thigh strong in front; ribs well
lifted so that front line from waist to throat is lengthened to full extent; back kept erect,
and curve at waist not emphasized. Breathe strongly and deeply several times.

To secure the elevation of the ribs the hands may be placed under the arms, as high as possible,
fingers pointing down; then try to turn or press the ribs up and forward with strong action
of hands, breathing freely and emphasizing strength in waist muscles. Sustain the ribs in this
elevated position, and thus uplift the chest. Keep shoulders free. Drop hands to sides again.

(b) Take half a step forward; sustain weight on advanced foot; do not change position of retired
foot, but keep the sense of purchase in it. The chest should be carried forward of the abdomen
and the abdominal muscles given their best leverage by a slight bending forward from the hips.
(Bending forward must not be done by any dropping of the chest, or shortening of the line at
waist through relaxation.) This position must be light, active, buoyant, and reposeful.

A constant sense of easy balance should be developed through poising exercises.

The habit of healthful and powerful respiration should be established by physical exercise
for that purpose, and the right manipulation of breath in tone production should be secured
by the nature of the voice exercises. Any vocal exercise which involves in the very nature
of its production a good control of breath becomes, by virtue of that fact, a good breathing
exercise as well.

[Footnote: See exercises described in a later chapter.]

If the voice be perfectly free, it is then capable of expressing truly all that the person
thinks and feels. The first desirable end sought, then, is freedom. What is freedom, and how
secured? When all cavities of resonance are accessible to the vibrating column of air the voice
may be said to be free. By cavities of resonance is meant the chest (trachea and bronchial
tubes), the larynx, pharynx, the mouth, and the nares anterior and posterior, or head chambers
of resonance. The free tone is modified through all its varieties of expression by those subtle
changes in form, intensity, movement, inflection, and also direction, which are too fine for
the judgment to determine, or even observe successfully. These varieties are made possible
by the very organism of the voice, which is vital, not mechanical, and are determined by the
influences working from the mind through the nerves which control this wonderful living instrument.
This is governed by the law of reflex action, by which stimulation of any nerve center produces
responsive action in other parts of the body. The voice will obey the mind. Right objects of
thought will influence it much more perfectly and rapidly than the mere arbitrary dictates
of calculation.

Right psychology would be the only thing necessary to the thorough cultivation of the voice
if the conditions were so perfect that there were no habits of stricture and our instrument
were thus in perfect tune. And in spite of the fact that it is not usually found in perfect
tune, the influence of practice under right mental conditions is the most potent and indispensable
part of voice culture. Let this fact not be lost sight of while we are discussing those more
technical methods of training which are designed to tune and regulate our instrument.

First, freedom of voice is attained (technically speaking) by right direction of tone and vital
support. A few words of explanation will make this patent.

If the vibrating column of air when it leaves the vocal cords is so directed that it passes
freely through all the cavities of resonance, it cannot fail to find the right one. The following
exercise, if properly taken, will induce right direction of tone: produce a light humming sound
such as would be the sound of m, n, or ng, if so idealized as to eliminate that element of
sound commonly spoken of as nasality. That which is called nasality is caused by the failure
of the tone to reach freely the anterior cavities of the nares. The cavity which lies just
back of the nose and frontal bone imparts a musical resonance resembling the vibrating after-tone
when a note has been struck upon a piano and allowed to die away gradually. The "nasal" effect
comes when the tone is confined in the posterior or back part of the nares, or head cavity,
or is split by the dropping of the uvula so that part of the tone is directed through the nares
and part through the mouth. Many so-called "humming tones" are given for practice, but in accepting
them observe whether the foregoing principle is obeyed.

The controlling center of consciousness is the extreme limit of the nares anteri. The tone
should be thought of as outside. Keep the mind upon results, just as one would hold the thought
of a certain figure which one might desire to draw. If one wishes to inscribe a curve, he thinks
of the curve as an object of thought, not of the muscles which act in executing it. So with
the voice. A tone is not a reality until its form of vibration reaches the outer air. One should
always think of the tone one wishes to make--never listen to one's own execution. If the ideal
is not reached by the effort it will be known by the sense of incompleteness.

Why is the nares anteri the ruling center of tone direction? The dominant or ruling center
of any organism is that point which, if controlled, will involve the regulation of all that
is subordinate to it. For example, the heart is the dominant center of the circulatory system;
the brain is the dominant center of the nervous system; the sun is the dominant center of the
planetary system. In all these systems, if the center be affected, the system is proportionately
influenced. If any other part than the dominant center be affected, it is true that all other
parts may also be affected, but the desired unity in result will not be secured.

The voice will follow the thought as surely as the hand will reach the object aimed at. The
extreme anterior part of the nares, or head cavity, is the chamber of resonance farthest from
the vocal cords. Therefore, if the voice be directed through that chamber of resonance all
the others must be passed in reaching it, and hence all must be accessible to the vibrating
column of air. It is a law of acoustics that any given cavity of resonance will resound to
that pitch to which its size corresponds, and to no other. This law of sound secures the appropriate
resonance for every pitch much more accurately than it could be secured by an effort to develop
chest, middle, and head registers through calculating the differences. Again, we need the higher
chambers of resonance to reinforce even the low pitch, because every note has its overtones
that enrich it, and if these cannot find their proper resonance the tone is impoverished. It
may be well to explain our use of the term "overtone."

This word "overtone" is used unscientifically by many. The significance of its use is somewhat
varied among teachers, but it generally means head resonance, or a tone "sent over" through
the head cavities. The term is used here technically, not arbitrarily. Overtones are not confined
to the voice, but are those constituent parts of any tone which are produced by the vibrating
segments into which any vibrating cord will divide itself.

Any cord, or string, stretched between two given points, when struck will vibrate throughout
its entire length in waves of a certain length and with a certain degree of rapidity, according
to the tension of the string. This vibration of the entire length of cord gives forth the tone
heard as the fundamental pitch or tone. Besides this fundamental or primary vibration, the
movement divides itself into segments, or sections, of the entire length. These sections also
have vibrations of their own which are of shorter length and more rapid motion. The note given
off by these subdivisions is, of course, on a higher pitch than that produced by the fundamental
vibration of the cord; hence, they are higher tones, or overtones. It will be remembered that
pitch depends upon the rapidity of the sound waves or vibrations. This subdivision of the vibrations
is incalculably multiplied, so that it may be said to be impossible to determine the number
of overtones accompanying the fundamental tone. What the ear hears is the fundamental pitch
only; the overtones harmonize with the primary or fundamental tone, and enrich it. Since this
is a law of vibration, it is unscientific to speak of giving an overtone, for all tones contain
overtones. Where these overtones are interfered with by any imperfection in the instrument
the result is a harsh or imperfect sound.

In relation to the voice it should now be clearly understood that since it is the overtones
which enrich or give a harmonious sound to any tone, and since all tones (low as well as high)
have overtones as constituent parts of their being, therefore the whole range of the resonant
cavities of the voice should, for the production of pure tone, be open to all degrees of pitch,
in order that the overtones may find their appropriate reinforcement in the resonance chambers.
Thus the quality of the voice depends, not simply upon the condition of the vocal cords themselves,
but upon the form and quality of the resounding cavities.

CHAPTER II

Elementary Lessons.

After this brief discussion of the principles involved in this method of practice, we will
proceed to give some essential exercises for practice.

EXERCISE FOR SECURING FREEDOM OF TONE

This is the foundation of all voice culture.

1. Take position in accordance with directions given in Chapter I.

2. Take humming tone as indicated in the preceding chapter,--m, n, ng,--idealized and pure.
The mouth should be opened and closed without changing the tone.

3. Endeavor to concentrate all consciousness upon the conception of a tone emanating from the
nares anteri and floating in ideal forms of vibration in the surrounding air. Those forms may
vary in their definite nature, but must always obey the principle of curves and radiation.
One should never reach up to a tone, but should seem to alight upon it from above, as a bird
alights on the branch of a tree. The mind must never lose sight of the result--the ideal aimed
at. The knowledge of processes leads us to a right conception of aims, and enables us to judge
of their correctness. We should know what processes are normal (natural and healthful) and
what objects of thought will induce them.

While taking the above exercise no effort should be made in the throat. The voice should seem
to find its way without effort. The tone should not be loud or sharp.

If the student finds it difficult to produce the tone alone, some word ending in ing should
be practised, as ring-ring-ring-ng.

FORMING OF ELEMENTS

First Exercise. Start the humming tone as indicated in the first lesson, and maintain the same
focus while forming certain elements. Take the syllable n-o-m, allowing no break while going
from n, the nares sound, to the vowel sound of o, and returning to the nares sound of m. This
is perhaps the best element to begin upon, because of its definiteness, but the same principle
can be applied to other elements of speech, as Most-men-want-poise-and-more- royal-margin.
Form each syllable with the utmost care. Concentrate the mind upon the ideal sound. First be
sure that the pronunciation is accurately conceived. Then enunciate clearly and try each time
to make the form more perfect. The principle of thinking is the same as that involved in striving
to make a perfect circle, or to execute any figure with more and more beauty. The effort of
the mind will bring the result, if the conception of the element to be formed be correct. The
sentence given--"Most men want poise, and more royal margin"--is composed of such alternation
of elements as will tend to bring forward those that might be formed too far back by their
association with those elements that are necessarily brought to the front. For example, the
wordpoise. The first and last elements are distinctively front. That helps to bring out what
is between.

The constant recurrence of the nares tone, as in m, n, etc., may serve as a regulator of tone.
The object of this step in practice is to form elements with beauty, and to form them with
the same focus as that secured by the humming tone. In this stage of practice each element
should be dwelt upon separately, but not in such a way as to mar its expression. For example,
unaccented syllables should be lightly pronounced and the right shading carefully observed.
Otherwise, when the elements are put together their harmony and smoothness will be wanting
and the effect labored and mechanical, as is often the case where attention has been given
to the practice of articulation. To make the effort of articulation a vital impulse in response
to a mental concept,--this is the object sought. The principle is that the will should be directed
toward the ideal to be reached, while the mind comprehends the means incidentally. The means
may be considered as a matter of knowledge, useful in guiding the judgment but a hindrance
when used as a trap to catch the conscious attention of the practising student.

The whole difference between the artist who is spontaneous and the artisan who is artificial
is that the one recognizes the fact that the very existence of human expression proves that
the mind awakens the instinctive response of the physical organism, while the other thinks
that he can calculate that infinite harmony which makes unity of action, without reverting
to the first cause of expression--the thought that created it. To reproduce the impulse born
of the thought--this is the aim of a psychological method. This is secured only by right objects
of thought; it is impossible to reach it by voluntary mechanics.

SMOOTHNESS AND HARMONY OF UTTERANCE

Having obtained the results sought in our last division, we should learn to manipulate the
elements of speech fluently without breaking their relation to (harmony with) the primary focus,
or direction of tone.

Practise the same sentence, "Most men" etc., striving to make every tone and the form of every
element perfect, without dwelling upon them separately; practise this (as also the preceding
exercises) upon various degrees of pitch in the musical scale, generally beginning on a "medium
high" pitch, then lower, and afterwards higher. Strive to speak or sing fluently without breaking
the quality of tone used. A break in quality signifies loss of focus.

The object of this practise is to attain facility in manipulating the elements while maintaining
the smooth quality of the tone. After this sentence other sentences may be used in reference
to the same idea. The primary exercise given should always be reverted to as a working center,
in order to secure, through repetition, a deepening of the tendency involved. Variety is admissible
only in addition to the original exercise, but should not be substituted for it.

FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF MUSICAL EXPRESSIVENESS OF TONES

This opens the way to expression in tone,--dramatic expression,--but the technical preparation
for expressive responsiveness in the voice is the development of its musical possibilities,
for all artistic expression in tones is musical whether the person be a singer or a speaker.
Inflections are variations in pitch, and are "the tune of the thought."

