"Ho, ho!" cried the hemp-dresser, after cautiously extending an arm to feel the roast. "That
is n't a quail nor a partridge; it is n't a hare nor a rabbit; it 's something like a goose
or a turkey. Upon my word, you 're clever hunters, and that game did n't make you run very
far. Move on, you rogues; we know all your lies, and you had best go home and cook your supper.
You are not going to eat ours."

The Grave-digger: "O Heavens, where can we go to cook our game? It is very little for so many
as we, and, besides, we have neither place nor fire. At this time every door is closed, and
every soul asleep. You are the only people who are celebrating a wedding at home, and you must
he hardhearted indeed to let us freeze outside. Once again, good people, open the door; we
shall not cost you anything. You can see that we bring our own meat; only a little room at
your hearth, a little blaze to cook with, and we shall go on our way rejoicing."

The Hemp-dresser: "Do you suppose that we have too much room here, and that wood is bought
tor nothing?"

The Grave-digger: "We have here a small bundle of hay to make the fire. We shall be satisfied
with that; only grant us leave to place the spit across your fireplace."

The Hemp-dresser: "That will never do. We are disgusted, and don't pity you at all. It is my
opinion that you are drunk, that you need nothing, and that you only wish to come in and steal
away our fire and our daughters."

The Grave-digger: "Since you won't listen to reason, we shall make our way in by force."

The Hemp-dresser: "Try, if you want; we are shut in well enough to have no fear of you, and
since you are impudent fellows, we shall not answer you again."

Thereupon the hemp-dresser shut the garret window with a bang, and came down into the room
below by a step-ladder. Then he took the bride by the hand, the young people of both sexes
followed, and they all began to sing and chatter merrily, while the matrons sang in piercing
voices, and shrieked with laughter in derision and bravado at those without who were attempting
an attack.

The besiegers, on their side, made a great hubbub. They discharged their pistols at the doors,
made the dogs growl, whacked the walls, shook the blinds, and uttered frightful shrieks. In
short, there was such a pandemonium that nobody could hear, and such a cloud of dust that nobody
could see.

And yet this attack was all a sham. The time had not come for breaking through the etiquette.
If, in prowling about, anybody were to find an unguarded aperture, or any opening whatsoever,
he might try to slip in unobserved, and then, if the carrier of the spit succeeded in placing
his roast before the fire, and thus prove the capture of the hearth, the comedy was over and
the bridegroom had conquered.

The entrances of the house, however, were not numerous enough for any to be neglected in the
customary precautions, and nobody might use violence before the moment fixed for the struggle.

When they were weary of dancing and screams, the hemp-dresser began to think of capitulation.
He went up to his window, opened it with precaution, and greeted the baffled assailants with
a burst of laughter.

"Well, my boys," said he, "you look very sheep-faced. You thought there was nothing easier
than to come in, and you see that our defense is good. But we are beginning to have pity on
you, if you will submit and accept our conditions."

The Grave-digger: "Speak, good people. Tell us what we must do to approach your hearth."

The Hemp-dresser: "You must sing, my friends; but sing a song we don't know,--one that we can't
answer by a better."

"That 's not hard to do," answered the grave-digger, and he thundered in a powerful voice:
"'Six months ago, 'twas in the spring...'"

