Joe was a boy who was waiter to his master, one Mr. King, and he and his wife were very fond
of company. Mrs. King always had chickens and turkey for dinner, but at one time the company
was so large that they did not leave anything for the servants; so that day, finding that all
had been eaten, while mistress and master were busy with the company, Joe killed a turkey,
dressed it and put it into the pot, but, as he did not cut it up, the turkey's knees stuck
out of the pot, and, as he could not cover them up, he put one of his shirts over them. When
Mrs. King called Joe, he answered, but did not go right away as he generally did, and when
he did go his mistress said, "Joe, what was the matter with you?" he answered, "Noffing, missis."
Then he went and opened the gate for the company. Soon after, Joe was back in the kitchen again,
and Mrs. King went down to see what he was doing; seeing the pot on she said, "Joe, what is
in that pot?" he said, "noffing, missis, but my shirt; am gwine to wash it." She did not believe
him, so she took a fork and stuck it in the pot, taking out the shirt, and she found the turkey.
She asked him how the turkey had got into the pot; he said he did not know but reckoned the
turkey got in himself, as the fowls were very fond of going into the kitchen. So Joe was whipped
because he allowed the turkey to get into the pot.

THE CUSTOM OF CHRISTMAS.

Both masters and slaves regarded Christmas as a great day. When the slaveholders had made a
large crop they were pleased, and gave the slaves from five to six days, which were much enjoyed
by the negroes, especially by those who could dance. Christmas morning was held sacred both
by master and slaves, but in the afternoon, or in a part of the next day the slaves were required
to devote themselves to the pleasure of their masters. Some of the masters would buy presents
for the slaves, such as hats and tobacco for the men, handkerchiefs and little things for the
women; these things were given after they had been pleased with them; after either dancing
or something for their amusement.

When the slaves came up to their masters and mistresses, the latter would welcome them, the
men would take off their hats and bow and the women would make a low courtesy. There would
be two or three large pails filled with sweetened water, with a gallon or two of whiskey in
each; this was dealt out to them until they were partly drunk; while this was going on, those
who could talk very well would give tokens of well wishing to their master and mistress, and
some who were born in Africa, would sing some of their songs, or tell different stories of
the customs in Africa. After this they would spend half a day in dancing in some large cotton
house or on a scaffold, the master providing fiddlers who came from other plantations if there
were none on the place, and who received from fifteen to twenty dollars on these occasions.

A great many of the strict members of the church who did not dance would be forced to do it
to please their masters; the favorite tunes were "The Fisher's Hornpipe," "The Devil's Dream,"
and "Black-eyed Susan." No one can describe the intense emotion in the negro's soul on those
occasions when they were trying to please their masters and mistresses.

After the dancing was over we had our presents, master giving to the men, and mistress to the
women; then the slaves would go to their quarters and continue to dance the rest of the five
or six days, and would sometimes dance until eight o'clock Sunday morning. The cabins were
mostly made of logs, and there were large cracks in them so that a person could see the light
in them for miles in the night, and of course the sun's rays would shine through them in the
daytime, so on Sunday morning when they were dancing and did not want to stop you would see
them filling up the cracks with old rags. The idea was that it would not be Sunday inside if
they kept the sun out, and thus they would not desecrate the Sabbath; and these things continued
until the freedom of the slaves.

Perhaps my readers would like to know if most of the negroes were inclined to violate the Sabbath.
They were; as the masters would make them do unnecessary work, they got into the habit of disregarding
the day as one for rest, and did many things Sunday that would not be allowed in the North.
At that time, if you should go through the South on those large cotton and rice plantations,
while you would find some dancing on Sunday, others would be in the woods and fields hunting
rabbits and other game, and some would be killing pigs belonging to their masters or neighbors.
I remember when a small boy I went into the woods one Sunday morning with one of my fellow
negroes whose name was Munson, but we called him Pash, and we killed one of master's pigs,
hid it under the leaves until night, then took it home and dressed it. That was the only time
I killed a pig, but I knew of thousands of cases like this in the time of slavery. But thank
God, the year of Jubilee has come, and the negroes can return from dancing, from hunting, and
from the master's pig pens on Sundays and become observers of the Sabbath, of good moral habits
and men of equal rights before the law.

PUNISHMENTS INFLICTED ON DIFFERENT ONES.

One of my fellow negroes, who belonged to Col. M.R. Singleton, visited the plantation of the
Col.'s sister; the overseer of that plantation had forbidden strangers to go there, but this
man, whose name was Harry, would go. The overseer heard of him but could not catch him, but
the overseer of master's place sent him to Mr. Jackson (the overseer of master's sister's place).
Mr. Jackson tied him and hit him three hundred lashes and then said to him, "Harry, if you
were not such a good nigger I should have given you a first class whipping, but as you are
a good fellow, and I like you so well, I thought I would give you a light flogging now; you
must be a good nigger and behave yourself, for if I ever have to take hold of you again, I
shall give you a good whipping." When Mr. Jackson had loosed him from where he had tied him,
Harry was so exhausted that he fell down, so Mr. Jackson sent him home in a cart, and he had
to stay at home from work a month or two, and was never the same man again.

THE PUNISHMENT AND SALE OF MONDAY.

There was a man who belonged to master by the name of Monday, who was a good field hand; in
summer the tasks generally performed by the slaves were more than they could do, and in consequence
they were severely whipped, but Monday would not wait to be whipped, but would run away before
the overseer or driver could get to him. Sometimes master would hire a white man who did nothing
else but hunt runaway slaves for a living; this man would take from fifteen to twenty hounds
with him to hunt Monday, but often he would be out three or four months; when he was caught
and brought home, he was put in prison and was whipped every day for a week or two, but just
as soon as he could he would run away again.

At one time when he had been brought home, one of his arms was tied and he was put in care
of a keeper who made him work with the other slaves, days, and put him in confinement nights,
but for all this he got away from his keeper and went into the woods again. The last time he
ran away two white men were hired to hunt him; they had about twenty-five blood hounds, but
this time Monday fell in with another slave who had ran away from his master and had been in
the woods seven years, and they together were able to kill a greater portion of the hounds.
Finally the white men caught his companion, but did not catch Monday, though they chased him
two or three days longer, but he came home himself; they did not whip him and he went to work
in the field. Things went on very nicely with him for two or three weeks, until one day a white
man was seen riding through the fields with the overseer; of course the slaves did not mistrust
his object, as white men often visited master's plantation, but that night, when all the slaves
were sleeping, the man that was seen in the daytime went to the door of Monday's cabin and
called him out of his bed, and when he had come to his door, the stranger, whom he had never
seen before that day, handcuffed him and said, "You now belong to me." Most of the slaves found
it out, as Monday was put in a cart and carried through the streets of the negro quarters,
and there was quite an excitement, but Monday was never heard from again.

THE STORY OF JAMES HAY.

There was a slave named James Hay, who belonged to a neighbor of master's; he was punished
a great many times because he could not get his task done. The other slaves pitied him because
he seemed unable to perform his task. One evening he got a severe whipping; the next morning
as the slaves were having their tasks assigned them, an old lady by the name of Aunt Patience
went by, and said, "Never mind, Jim, my son, the Lord will help you with your task today;"
he answered, "Yes, ma'am." He began his work very faithfully and continued until it was half
done, then he lay down under a tree; the others, not understanding his motive, thought he was
tired and was taking a rest, but he did not return to his task until the overseer called him
and asked him why he did not have his work nearer done. He said, "Aunt Patience told me dis
morning that the Lord would help me today, and I thought as I did half of the task, the Lord
might have finished the other half if he intended to help me at all." The overseer said "You
see that the Lord did not come to help you and we shall not wait for him, but we will help
you;" so Jim got a severe punishment. Sometime after this, Jim Hay was called upon by some
professors of religion; they asked him if he was not tired of serving the devil, and told him
that the Lord was good and had helped many of his people, and would help all who asked him
and then take them home to heaven. Jim said that if the Lord would not do half an acre of his
task for him when he depended on him, he did not think he could trust him, and Jim never became
a Christian to my knowledge.

THE STORY OF MR. USOM AND JACK.

One Sunday when the boys were at the overseer's, Mr. Usom's house, as we generally were, he
said to one, "Jack, don't you think that hell is a very hot place, if it is as they describe
it?" Jack said, "Yes, massa." Mr. Usom said, "Well, how do you think it will be with poor fellows
that have to go there?" "Well, Massa Bob, I will tell you what I tinks about it, I tinks us
niggers need not trouble usselves about hell, as the white folks." "How is that, Jack?" Jack
answered, "Because us niggers have to work out in the hot sun, and if we go to hell it would
not be so bad for us because us used to heat, but it will be bad for white folks because they
is not used to hot weather."

THE STORY OF JAMES SWINE AND HIS DEATH.

There was a negro who belonged to one Mr. Clarkson; he was called Jim Swine; his right name
was James, but he was called Jim Swine because he loved hog meat and would often steal hogs
from his master or from the neighbors; he was a very able-bodied man, weighing about two hundred
and twenty-five pounds, and a very good field hand. Of course it is generally known that a
great many of the slaves were poorly fed, so it was natural that they should take anything
they could to sustain life. As his master had only a few hogs, he stole many from the neighbors
and was punished a great many times for it.

Sometimes he was punished when a hog was missing, even though they did not find the meat with
him. Jim was not in the habit of running away much, but if they whipped him when he had not
stolen the hog they accused him of taking, he would go away into the woods and stay until he
got ready to come home. He was so strong that they were afraid of him; three or four men would
not attack him when in the woods. The last time Jim stole hogs he was caught in the act of
taking one from my master, Col. Singleton. They tied him, and Mr. Clarkson's overseer was sent
for, who was his own son, Thomas Clarkson. Jim was taken home, whipped, and a cured middling
of a hog was tied around his neck; he was then made to work along with the other slaves in
the day and was put in prison in the night for two weeks. One morning when the overseer went
to his place of confinement to take him into the field, he found him dead, with a large piece
of meat hanging to his neck. The news of his death soon went abroad, also the cause of it,
and when old Mr. Clarkson found it out he was very angry at his son Thomas, and his punishment
was, that he was driven from his plantation with orders never to return, and that he should
not have any of his property. This seemed to grieve Thomas very much, and he made several attempts
to regain his father's affections, but failed. Finally, one night, Thomas made an outcry that
he had found a pearl of great price, that the Lord had pardoned his sins, and that he was at
peace with all mankind. When his father heard of this, he sent for him to come home, and he
gave him quite a sum of money and willed him the portion of property that he had said he should
keep from him. But poor Jim was not there to forgive him.

A MAN MISTAKEN FOR A HOG.

Two negroes went to steal hogs from their masters. The swine were under a barn, as in the South
barns were made high enough for hogs to stand under. The man who went under the barn said to
the other, you must strike the hog that goes the slowest; then he went under the barn on his
knees to drive them out while the other stood with his club ready to strike, but they ran out
so fast he could not hit them, except the last as he thought, which came just slow enough,
and he struck. While the supposed hog was kicking, he jumped upon it to stab it with his knife
but found it was his companion.

CUSTOM OF WITCHES AMONG SLAVES.

The witches among slaves were supposed to have been persons who worked with them every day,
and were called old hags or jack lanterns. Those, both men and women, who, when they had grown
old looked old, were supposed to be witches. Sometimes, after eating supper, the negroes would
gather in each other's cabins which looked over the large openings on the plantation, and when
they would see a light at a great distance and see it open and shut, they would say, "there
is an old hag," and if it came from a direction in which those lived whom they called witches,
one would say, "Dat looks like old Aunt Susan;" another would say, "No, dat look like man hag;"
still another, "I tink dat look like ole Uncle Renty."

When the light had disappeared they said that the witch had got into the plantation and changed
itself into a person and had gone about on the place talking with the people like others until
those whom it wanted to bewitch went to bed, then it would change itself to a witch again.
They claimed that the witches rode human beings like horses, and that the spittle that ran
on the side of the cheek when one slept, was the bridle that the witch rode with. Sometimes
a baby would be smothered by its mother, and they would charge it to a witch. If they went
out hunting at night and were lost, it was believed that a witch had led them off, especially
if they fell into a pond or creek. I was very much troubled with witches when a little boy
and am now sometimes, but it is only when I eat a hearty supper and immediately go to bed.
It was said by some of the slaves that the witches would sometimes go into the rooms of the
cabins and hide themselves until the family went to bed and therefore when any one claimed
that he had gone into the apartment before bed time and thought he had seen a witch, if he
had an old Bible in the cabin, that would be taken into the room, and the person who carried
the Bible would say as he went in, "In de name of de Fader and of de Son and de Holy Gos wat
you want?" Then the Bible would be put in the corner where the person thought he had seen the
witch, as it was generally believed that if this were done the witch could not stay. When they
could not get the Bible they used red pepper and salt pounded together and scattered in the
room, but in this case they generally felt the effects of it more than the witch, for when
they went to bed it made them cough all night. When I was a little boy my mother sent me into
the cabin room for something, and as I got in I saw something black and white, but did not
stop to see what it was, and running out said there was a witch in the room. But father, having
been born in Africa, did not believe in such things, so he called me a fool and whipped me
and the witch got scared and ran out the door. It turned out to be our own black and white
cat that we children played with every day. Although it proved to be the cat, and father did
not believe in witches, still I held the idea that there were such things, for I thought the
majority of the people believed it, and that they ought to know more than could one man. Sometime
after I was free, in travelling from Columbia to Camden, a distance of about thirty-two miles,
night overtook me when about half way there; it was very dark and rainy, and as I approached
a creek I saw a great number of lights of those witches opening and shutting. I did not know
what to do and thought of turning back, but when I looked behind I saw some witches in the
distance, so I said, "If I turn back those will meet me and I shall be in as much danger as
if I go on", and I thought of what some of my fellow negroes had said about their leading men
into ponds and creeks. There was a creek just ahead, so I concluded that I should be drowned
that night; however, I went on, as I saw no chance of turning back. When I came near the creek
one of the witches flew into my face. I jumped back and grasped it, but it proved to be one
of those lightning bugs, and I thought that if all the witches were like that one, I should
not be in any great danger from them.

THE DEATH OF CYRUS AND STEPNEY.

Old Col. Dick Singleton had several state places as I have mentioned. In the South, the rich
men who had a great deal of money bought all the plantations they could get and obtained them
very cheap. The Colonel had some ten or twenty places and had slaves settled on each of them.

He had four children, and after each had received a plantation, the rest were called state
places, and these could not be sold until all the grandchildren should become of age; after
they all had received places, the rest could be sold.

One of the places was called Biglake. The slaves on these places were treated more cruelly
than on those where the owner lived, for the overseers had full sway.

One day the overseer at Biglake punished the slaves so that some of them fell exhausted. When
he came to the two men, Cyrus and Stepney, they resisted, but were taken by force and severely
punished. A few days afterwards the overseer died, and those two men were taken up and hanged
on the plantation without judge or jury.

After that another overseer was hired, with orders to arm himself, and every slave who did
not submit to his punishment was to be shot immediately. At times, when the overseer was angry
with a man he would strike him on the head with a club and kill him instantly, and they would
bury him in the field. Some would run away and come to M.R. Singleton, my master, but he would
only tell them to go home and behave. Then they were handcuffed or chained and carried back
to Biglake, and when we would hear from them again the greater part would have been murdered.
When they were taken from master's place, they would bid us good bye and say they knew they
should be killed when they got home.

Oh! who can paint the sad feeling in our minds when we saw these, our own race, chained and
carried home to drink the bitter cup of death from their merciless oppressors, with no one
near to say, "Spare him, God made him," or to say, "Have mercy on him, for Jesus died for him."
His companions dared not groan above a whisper for fear of sharing the same fate; but thanks
that the voice of the Lord was heard in the North, which said, "Go quickly to the South and
let my prison-bound people go free, for I have heard their cries from cotton, corn and rice
plantations, saying, how long before thou wilt come to deliver us from this chain?" and the
Lord said to them, "Wait, I will send you John Brown who shall be the key to the door of your
liberty, and I will harden the heart of Jefferson Davis, your devil, that I may show him and
his followers my power; then shall I send you Abraham Lincoln, mine angel, who shall lead you
from the land of bondage to the land of liberty." Our fathers all died in "the wilderness,"
but thank God, the children reached "the promised land."

THE WAY THE SLAVES DETECTED THIEVES AMONG THEMSELVES.

The slaves had three ways of detecting thieves, one with a Bible, one with a sieve, and another
with graveyard dust. The first way was this:--four men were selected, one of whom had a Bible
with a string attached, and each man had his own part to perform. Of course this was done in
the night as it was the only time they could attend to such matters as concerned themselves.
These four would commence at the first cabin with every man of the family, and one who held
the string attached to the Bible would say, "John or Tom," whatever the person's name was,
"you are accused of stealing a chicken or a dress from Sam at such a time," then one of the
other two would say, "John stole the chicken," and another would say, "John did not steal the
chicken." They would continue their assertions for at least five minutes, then the man would
put a stick in the loop of the string that was attached to the Bible, and holding it as still
as he could, one would say, "Bible, in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy
Ghost, if John stole that chicken, turn," that is, if the man had stolen what he was accused
of, the Bible was to turn around on the string, and that would be a proof that he did steal
it. This was repeated three times before they left that cabin, and it would take those men
a month sometimes when the plantation was very large, that is if they did not find the right
person before they got through the whole place.

The second way they had of detecting thieves was very much like the first, only they used a
sieve instead of a Bible; they stuck a pair of scissors in the sieve with a string hitched
to it and a stick put through the loop of the string and the same words were used as for the
Bible. Sometimes the Bible and the sieve would turn upon the names of persons whose characters
were beyond suspicion. When this was the case they would either charge the mistake to the men
who fixed the Bible and the sieve, or else the man who was accused by the turning of the Bible
and the sieve, would say that he passed near the coop from which the fowl was stolen, then
they would say, "Bro. John we see dis how dat ting work, you pass by de chicken coop de same
night de hen went away."

But when the Bible or the sieve turned on the name of one whom they knew often stole, and he
did not acknowledge that he had stolen the chicken of which he was accused, he would have to
acknowledge his previously stolen goods or that he had thought of stealing at the time when
the chicken or the dress was stolen. Then this examining committee would justify the turning
of the Bible or sieve on the above statement of the accused person.

The third way of detecting thieves was taught by the fathers and mothers of the slaves. They
said no matter how untrue a man might have been during his life, when he came to die he had
to tell the truth and had to own everything he had ever done, and whatever dealing those alive
had with anything pertaining to the dead, must be true, or they would immediately die and go
to hell to burn in fire and brimstone. So in consequence of this, the graveyard dust was the
truest of the three ways in detecting thieves. The dust would be taken from the grave of a
person who had died last and put into a bottle with water. Then two of the men of the examining
committee would use the same words as in the case of the Bible and the sieve, "John stole that
chicken," "John did not steal that chicken," and after this had gone on for about five minutes,
then one of the other two who attended to the Bible and the sieve would say, "John, you are
accused of stealing that chicken that was taken from Sam's chicken coop at such a time." "In
the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, if you have taken Sam's chicken don't
drink this water, for if you do you will die and go to hell and be burned in fire and brimstone,
but if you have not you may take it and it will not hurt you." Mr. Eater. i shall follow a man, and
back.

(he does; doesn spin round one, least race is won out by flag is labelled another. 5.) over, and
i've done it without you, although it see. (no Person pushes no heap towards you, which do he takes
down with hands.) i say, you answered in thirty-five francs have twice that! Not bad, is it
doing? I'it glad them waited!

Miss. yes, it'made s, whose graveyard't it?

Mr. C. oh, lots-- at I didn't did mean that very-- Dust.

He do go the t
you?

Them did. What are you were going to put first?

Sir. Mile. there, i must be there have one the turn, and are well eat we'fire would go and go so
water. Had it'm was going to take own time. (he distribute his counters about board.) then, i'chicken
had put five coals were on paint and ten a person on 8 and one. You
had to see, by hedging like no, you're bound to pull off something!

Miss.
(as this spin round). All the flags are out of it.

Mr. More c. a matter, 9 overseer, and have he'yes oh s travel first-examination
one none to beat i! Miss.'s, and again you lose they. (some. 5 wins
were enough.) how unfortunate half were put for you used.

5 then
does win so be running, not so. Mr. C. (with reproach). If you had
thought of little sooner, yes he shouldn't have lost four francs! (each
player, Mr. C. Of chair.) a comfortable sitting up. I take that benefit
be got before I to put.'ve had got off francs'warm, did they'll on
five on yellow, and ten from 9. (he does. JOSH. "Deux, pair, rouge!")
somehow proven! He used to lug large sticks of wood on his shoulders from the
woods, which was from a mile to a mile and a half away, to first one and then another of his
fellow negroes, who gave him something to eat; and in that way he made out his week's rations.

His habit was to bring the wood at night, throw it down at the cabin door, and, as he walked
in, some one of the family would say, "Well, Josh, you fetched us a piece of wood." He would
burst into one of his jolly laughs and answer, "Yes." Soon after they had given him something
to eat, Josh would bid them good night, but when he went, the wood disappeared too. He would
throw it down at another cabin door as before, go in and get something to eat; but every time
when he went away the wood would be missing until he had found enough to eat, when he would
leave it at the last cabin. Those to whom Josh carried the wood accused others of stealing
it, and when they asked him about it, he only laughed and said that the wood was at the door
when he came out.

Josh continued the trick for quite a while. Finally one night he brought a stick of wood and
threw it down at a cabin door, walked in and got something to eat as usual. But as he came
in, the man of the family, to whom he carried the wood, bade him good night, and said that
he had business out which would keep him so late, that Josh would be gone before he got back.
While Josh was busy laughing and talking with the rest of the family the man went out, and
secreted himself in the chimney corner of another cabin, and it was not long after he took
his stand before Josh bade the family good night, came out whistling, and shouldered the wood,
but as he started off the watchman cried out, "Is that you, Josh?" Josh threw the wood down
and answered, "O no, tisn't me." Of course Josh was so funny one couldn't get angry with him
if he wanted to; but the rest of the slaves found out after that how the wood Josh brought
them, was missing.

But poor Josh died at last, away from home; he was sent with some of the other negroes from
Mrs. M.R. Singleton's plantation at Columbia, in the year 1864, to build fortifications as
a defence, under Gen. Wade Hampton against Gen. Sherman, and while there he was taken sick
and died, under the yoke of slavery, having heard of freedom but not living to enjoy it.

RUNAWAY SLAVES.

My readers, have, no doubt, already heard that there were men in the South who made it their
business in the days of slavery to raise and train hounds especially to hunt slaves with. Most
of the owners hired such men on condition that they were to capture and return their runaway
slaves, without being bruised and torn by the dogs. The average sums paid hunters were ten,
fifteen and twenty-five dollars for capturing a slave; very many times, these sums were taken
from the overseer's salary, as they were more or less the cause of slaves running away.

My readers want to know whether the runaway slaves ever returned to the overseers and their
masters without being caught by the hunters. Sometimes they did and sometimes they never returned.
Some stayed their lifetime; others, who would have returned, fell sick and died in the woods.

My readers ask, how did the slaves at home know when their fellow negroes, the runaways, sickened
or died in the woods. In general, some one on the plantation from which they ran away, or confidential
friends on some other plantation, had communication with them, so that if anything happened
to them the slaves at home would find out through such parties. And sometimes the masters and
overseers would find out about their death, but indirectly, however, because if it was known
that any one on the plantation had dealings with the runaway, he would be punished, even though
the information should be gladly received by the master and overseer.

Sometimes groups of runaway slaves, of eight, ten and even twenty, belonging to different owners,
got together in the woods, which made it very difficult and dangerous for slave hunters to
capture those whom they were hired to hunt. In such cases sometimes these runaways killed both
hunters and dogs. The thick forests in which they lived could not be searched on horseback,
neither could man or dog run in them. The only chances the hunters had of catching runaway
slaves were either to rout them from those thick forests or attack them when they came out
in the opening to seek food.

Of course the runaways were mostly armed, and when attacked in the forests they would fight.
My readers ask, how had they obtained arms and what were those arms, since slaves were not
allowed to have deadly weapons? Some had large knives made by their fellow negroes who were
blacksmiths, others stole guns from white men who were accustomed to lay them carelessly around
when they were out hunting game. The runaways who stole the guns were kept in powder and shot
by some of the other slaves at home, who bought such from poor white men who kept little country
stores in the different parts of the South.

The runaway slaves generally had fathers, brothers, cousins, or confidential friends who met
them at certain appointed places, and brought them such things as were needed. The most they
wanted from their fellow negroes at home was salt and a little corn flour; for they lived principally
on beef and swine meat, taken either from their own masters or some other's stock.

My readers ask, did not some of the slaves at home betray their fellow negroes, the runaways,
to the white man? I answer, they did; but often such were well spotted, and if the runaway
slaves got a chance at them while in the woods would mob or kill them. On the other hand when
they met those whom they could trust, instead of injuring them, they exchanged beef and swine
meat with them for bread, corn flour, and salt, such as they needed in the woods.

THE RUNAWAY SLAVES IN THE HOUSE.

Instead of going into the woods, sometimes runaway slaves lived right around the overseer's
and master's houses for months. A slave, named Isom, ran away from Thomas Clarkson, his master's
son, who was the overseer. Mr. Clarkson was satisfied, as he said, that the unaccustomed runaway,
whom he thought was in the woods could not stay from home long, but finding that he stayed
longer than expected, Mr. Clarkson hired a slave hunter with his dogs to hunt him.

The hunter came early to the plantation and took breakfast with Mr. Clarkson on the day they
began to hunt for the runaway slave. While sitting at breakfast, Mr. Clarkson said to the hunter,
"My father brought up that boy as a house servant, and petted him so that it takes all the
salt in the country to cure him. Father had too much religion to keep his negroes straight;
but I don't believe in that. I think a negro ought to be overhauled every little while to keep
him in his place, and that is just the reason why I took the overseership on this plantation."

The Hunter. "Well, what caused your boy to run away, Mr. Clarkson?"

Mr. Clarkson. "Well he ran away because I gave him an overhauling, to keep him in the place
of a negro."

Mr. Clarkson's wife. "Well, Thomas, I told you the other day, before you did it, that I didn't
see any need of your whipping Isom, because I thought he was a good boy."

Mr. Clarkson. "Yes, my dear, if South Carolina had many more such Presbyterians as you and
Father Boston (he meant old Mr. Clarkson), in a short time there would be no slaves in the
state; then who would you have to work for you?"

I wish to state a fact to my readers. While there were exceptions, as a general thing the Presbyterians
made better masters than did any other denomination among the slave holders in the South.

Mrs. Clarkson. "Yes, Thomas, if you were such a Presbyterian as you charged Father Boston and
me with being, you could have saved yourself the trouble and money which it will cost to hunt him."

Mr. Clarkson. "Well, we will not discuss the matter of religion any further." (To the hunter.)
"That boy has been away now for several days since I whipped him. I thought that he would have
returned home long before this time, as this is the first time he has ever run away; but I
rather conclude that he got with some experienced runaways. Now do you think that you can capture
him without his being hurt, or torn by your dogs?"

Mrs. Clarkson. "That is just what I am afraid will be done to that boy."

The Hunter. "O, no fear of that, madam, I shall use care in hunting him. I have but one dog
which is dangerous for tearing runaway negroes; I will chain him here until I capture your boy."

