Her ardent desire that her children should have a liberal education came to a climax on me,
the last, born at the end of the period of child-bearing. She taught me my letters before I
could articulate them, when I was two I could read, and at three I was put on a high stool
to read the Bible for visitors, so that I cannot remember when I could not read, and when not
more than five or six I used to be at the head of the spelling classes and spelling matches,
in which all the boys and girls were divided into equal companies, and the school-teacher gave
out the hardest words in the spelling-book to each side in turn, all who failed to spell their
word sitting down, until the solitary survivor on one side or the other decided the victory,
and even before I was seven I was generally that survivor. I read insatiably all the good story-books
they would let me have, and I cannot recall the time at which there was anything even in the
Bible new to me. With an incipient passion for nature and animal life, I read with delight
all the books of natural history I could get, and I have heard in later years that in all the
community of Sabbatarianism I was known as a prodigy. Fortunately I was saved from a probable
idiocy in my later life by a severe attack of typhoid fever at seven, out of which attack I
came a model of stupidity, and so remained until I was fourteen, my thinking powers being so
completely suspended that at the dame's school to which I was sent I was repeatedly flogged
for not comprehending the simplest things. I got through simple arithmetic as far as "Long
Division," and there had to turn back to the beginning three times before I could be made to
understand the principle of division by more than one figure.

In the humiliation of this period of my life, in which I came to consider myself as little
better than a fool, my only consolation was the large liberty I enjoyed in the woods and fields
with my father on Saturdays, or with my brothers Charles and Jacob on their long botanizing
excursions, or in the moments of leisure when I was not wanted to turn the grindstone or blow
the bellows in the workshop. Those long walks, in which I was indefatigable, and the days or
nights when I went fishing with my brother Jacob, who was ten years older than myself, and
who inherited the wandering and adventurous longings of my father, are the only things I can
remember of this period which gave me any pleasure. I can see vividly the banks of the Mohawk,
where we used to fish for perch, bream, and pike-perch; recall where, with my brother Charles,
we found the rarer flowers of the valley, the cypripediums, the most rare wild-ginger, only
to be found in one locality, the walking fern, equally rare, and the long walks in the pine
forests, whose murmuring branches in the west wind fascinated me more than any other thing
in nature.

Perhaps I mingle in recollection the nature-worship of the two septennates, for of the former
was my first rapturous vision of the open sea, which comes back to me with the memory of the
pines. I had gone with my father and mother to New York on a visit to my eldest brother, who
had just then finished the engines of the steamer Diamond, which was the first that by her
build was enabled to run through from New York to Albany, past the "overslough" or bar formed
in the Hudson, which prevented the steamers of greater draught from getting up to the wharf
at Albany; and he had profited by her first trip to visit home again and take us back with
him. My brother pointed out to me the Clermont, Fulton's trial steamer, then disused and lying
at Hoboken, but a cockboat to the Diamond, which was one of the greatest successes of the day.
Machinery fascinated me, being of the mechanical breed, and I can recall the engines of the
boat, which were of a new type, working horizontally, and so permitting larger engines in proportion
to the draught of the steamer than had been before used. We all went one day to Coney Island,
on the southern shore of Long Island, since a fashionable bathing place for New York, but then
a solitary stretch of seashore, with a temporary structure where bathers might get refreshments,
and a few bathing boxes. We drove out in my brother's buggy, and as, at a turn in the road,
I caught a glimpse of the distant sea horizon, I rose in the buggy, shouting, "The sea! the
sea!" and, in an uncontrollable frenzy, caught the whip from my brother's hand and slashed
the horse in wild delirium, unconscious of what I was doing. The emotion remains uneffaceable
after more than threescore years, one of the most vivid of my life. It was a rapture and an
interesting case of heredity, for I had not before been within a hundred and fifty miles of
the sea.

And how ecstatic was the sensation of the plunge into the breakers, holding fast to my mother's
hand, and then the race up the beach before the next comber, trembling lest it should catch
me, as if it were a living thing ready to devour me. They never come back, these first emotions
of childhood; and though I have loved the sea all my life, I have never again felt the sight
of it as then.

Of this first period, I remember very well the grand occasion of the opening of the Hudson
and Mohawk Railroad, the first link in that line which is now the New York Central, and see
vividly the curious old coaches,--three coach bodies together on one truck. This was in 1832,
when I was four years old. The road was, I believe, the first successful passenger railway
in America, and was sixteen miles long, with two inclined planes up which the trains were drawn,
and down which they were lowered by cables. There was an opposition line of stagecoaches between
Albany and Schenectady, running at the same price and making the same time.

Of the second period, that of nature worship, was my first trout, another delirium. My mother
had taken me to visit one of her brothers, a farmer in the western section of New York, soon
after made famous by the anti-rent war, in which my uncle was one of the "Indian Chiefs[1],"
and there I went fishing in the brook that ran through his farm. I caught a small trout and
did not know what fish it might be, till I saw the crimson spots on his side and remembered
that the trout in books bore them, and then I threw him on the grass and danced a wild dance
around him, a powwow as furious as a red Indian's scalp-dance, while he, poor little fingerling,
jumped in the unkindly herb. Then I caught him up and raced to the house nearly half a mile,
to show him, and put him in the trough under the pump, where he arrived still gasping but alive,
and where he remained for all my recollection of his fate thereafter. But I remember that the
beauty of the little creature gave me more pleasure than the capture.

[Footnote 1: The bands which carried on what became an actual insurrection against the civic
authorities were led by men disguised as red Indians and called chiefs.]

About this time I began to try to draw, and especially birds and beautiful forms, though years
before I had begun to color the wood-cuts in my books. And my mother, who had an utterly uncultivated
but most tender love of art, gave up finally the oft-renewed ambition to see one of her boys
in the pulpit, and made every opportunity for me to learn drawing,--I never quite understood
why, for my abilities in that line were little more than nine boys out of ten show.

It was a fortunate thing for my after-life that I lived so near the forests that all my odd
time was spent in them and in the surrounding fields, and I knew every apple-tree of early
fruiting for miles, and every hickory-tree whose nuts were choice; and one of the joyous experiences
of the time was running down a young gray squirrel in the woods, and catching him with my bare
hands, and badly bitten they were. I took him home and tamed him perfectly, and was very happy
with him, my first pet. He used to come and sleep in my pocket, and was never kept in a cage.
My father one morning left the window of our room open, and "Bob" went out to explore, but,
when he tried to find his way back again, a dog of the neighborhood, as a neighbor told us,
chased him away, and to my intense grief he was shot by a hunter a few days after in the adjoining
forest. I cannot to this day see a squirrel without emotion and affectionate remembrance of
"Bob." The love of animals, which I inherited from my father, was one of the passions of my
childhood, and I had an insatiate longing for pets.

Naturally my religious education during these early years was of the severest orthodox character,
and my mother's sincere, fervent, and practical piety brought home to me, with the conviction
of certainty, the persuasion of its divine authority. Hell and its terrors were always present
to me, and she taught me that the wandering suggestions of childish imagination, the recurrence
of profane expressions heard from others, and all forms of irreverent fantasies were the very
whisperings of the devil, to her, as to me, consequently, an ever-present spirit, perpetually
tempting me to repeat, and so make myself responsible for the wickedness in them. I remember
with great vividness a caricature of Mrs. Trollope in a satirical illustrated edition of her
travels in America, representing her sitting in a large armchair surrounded by negroes on their
knees, one of whom was represented as saying, "De Lord lub Missee Trollope," an expression
which my mother stigmatized as impious and not to be repeated, but which perhaps for that very
reason would recur to me in thought, and which I set myself to pray against as the very whisper
of the devil in my ears. And naturally, the more I tried to put it out of my head, the more
it got fixed there, and it was long a source of great misery to me that I could not keep the
devil away from my ears. I was never allowed a candle to go to bed with, and as I slept in
the huge garret, covering the whole house, I used to shut my eyes when I left the kitchen,
where we all sat in the evening, and groped my way to bed without ever again opening my eyes
until the next morning, for fear of seeing the devil on my way. Awful spiritual presences haunted
me always in the dark, when I passed a churchyard or an empty and solitary house. Such a house
stood in the pasture where I used to drive the cow, and when it happened that she had not come
home at nightfall, and I had to go to find her, the panic I endured from the necessity of searching
around this old house no one can imagine but a boy naturally timid and accustomed to see ghosts
and evil spirits in the dusk. But I kept my fears to myself and always made a conscientious search.

The peculiar ideas concerning conversion and regeneration, held in common by all the branches
of the adult-Baptist churches, were in my mother's mind an obsession. Conviction of sin, repentance,
the public confession, profession of faith, and baptism were the necessary degrees to regeneration,
and, looking back on the tortures to which my mother was subjected by those theological problems
and the daily anxiety she endured until each of us had passed through the gates of salvation
into the narrow way, I must wonder at that divine maternal instinct which made her rejoice
at my birth, as I know she did.

The whole community in which we lived, with the exception of a small Episcopal church, had
the same ideas of conversion and regeneration, and a prominent feature in our social existence
was the frequent recurrence of the great revival meetings in which all the rude eloquence of
celebrated and powerful preachers, Baptist, Methodist, and of other sects, was poured out on
excited congregations. There were "protracted meetings," or campaigns of prayer and exhortation,
lasting often a fortnight, at which all the resources of popular theology were employed to
awaken and maintain their audiences in a state of frenzy and religious delirium, during which
conviction of sin was supposed to enter the heart more effectually. The tortures of hell alternated
with the delights of heaven, in imagery calculated to drive the timid and conscientious young
folks to insanity, at these meetings, to which, once awakened, the subject of conviction went
three times a day, until the hysteria, the prolonged excitement so produced, came as a sign
of acceptance. As each new convert rose on the "anxious seat[1]," where he or she went when
the first feeling of conviction came, and afterwards made the declaration of salvation found,
the shouts and cries of "Glory to God," the sobbing and groans of the congregation were redoubled,
and the exhortations of the preacher renewed, to the still unconvicted to come forward to the
anxious seat where they would become subject to the concentrated and personal prayers of the
whole assembly. These meetings were the substitutes for all other social diversions or emotions.
There was a revival preacher by the name of Knapp, whose lurid eloquence in this vein made
him famous, and whose imagery was equal in ghastliness to anything that the Catholic Church
could produce. I remember one of his most dramatic bits, borrowed from a much earlier preacher,
a passage in his description of hell. In hell, he said, there was a clock, which, instead of
"tick," "tick," said, "Eternity," "Eternity," and when the damned, weary of their tortures
down in the depths, came up to see what time it was, they heard the sentence of the clock,
and turned in despair to go down into the depths again as far as they could.

[Footnote 1: The front line of seats next the pulpit, set apart for those who had "found conviction."]

To these meetings my mother used to send me, giving me a holiday from school for all the time
the protracted meeting lasted. But conviction never came. I was honest with myself, and though
the frenzied and ghastly exhortations harried my soul with dread, and I longed for the coming
of the ecstasy which was the recognizable sign of the grace of God, I could not rise to the
participation in it which the most material and hysterical of the congregation enjoyed, and
day after day I went home saddened by the conviction that I was still one of the unregenerate.
The sign never came, but several years later I went to make a visit to my brother Charles,
who had then removed to Plainfield, N.J., where he practiced medicine, and was one of the main
supports of the church in a community where the sect was large enough to have a constant worship,
which it never had in Schenectady. Here I came under the influence of a beloved brother of
my mother, one of the most earnest and humble Christians I have ever known, and here were gathered
others of the denomination at a protracted meeting, at which some of my friends of my own age
became seriously inclined, and we drifted together into the profession of Christian faith.
But here there was nothing of the ghastly terrors of the great revival agitations. My uncle
was a man of the world, had been all his early life a sailor, and had taken late to what, in
his experiences of men and the vicissitudes of life, he considered the only reality, the duty
of making known to his fellows the importance of the spiritual life. To fit himself for the
ministry, he taught himself Hebrew and Greek as well as Latin, and many years later was chosen
as one of the New Testament revisers for the American revision committee. But to him the profession
of religion was an act of the reason, not of revival excitement, and in his ministrations he
shunned carefully all the frenzied exhortation of the revivalists. Associated with him in the
ministry and leading the meetings was another of the Sabbatarian pastors, Elder Estee, a grave
and earnest man like my uncle, who inspired me with great confidence.

As I look back from the standpoint of one who reposes in the evolutionary philosophy, in which
the accidental and ecstatic disappear, upon this phase of psychology, in which hysteria becomes
an element of moral reform, it seems to me worth while to record the experience of one subjected
to the forces which were counted as such powerful aids to the spread of Christianity,--of one
either under the influences of the pomp of ceremony, the stimulus of music, the purely sensuous
stimulants to devotion,--or in the crude form of that ecstatic exaltation in which the individual
is carried into a supersensuous state, in which perception, reason, and even responsibility
to a great extent are, if not suspended, so far made abnormal that analysis becomes impossible.
The term for this latter condition amongst revivalists was "the power," and it was distinctly
a phenomenon sought for as the evidence of divine grace. The uncle of whom I have spoken had
once during his prior religious experience felt the "power," and described it as an emotion
which for the time lifted him above the consideration of his surroundings, and left him subsequently
indifferent to that very curious shame which generally accompanies the early yielding to the
revivalist urgency of acknowledging the necessity of change of heart,--a sense of having made
one's self ridiculous, which was, in my own and many other cases in my knowledge, a powerful
influence adverse to the "going forward" at the meetings, or being understood to be "religious,"
as those were considered who became serious in their attention at the meetings. This was recognized
by the preachers as the "fear of the world," and was the object of attack of the most eloquent
adjurations. Once carried away by this hysteria, one had no longer any of this shame or fear
of the taunts of his irreligious companions, which was very heavy with a nervous and sensitive
boy like myself. But though I had all through my attendance on the revival meetings earnestly
desired to attain to that exaltation, and considered it an indication of my graceless state,
that I was so insensible to the "spirit," which was another term for the frenzy, I found it
impossible to provoke it. It is a curious subject, this usurpation of the reasoning faculties
by the irrational, which is permitted when religion becomes emotional, either in the revolutionary
condition of the revivalist or that of the conservative and decorous ecclesiastical forms.

The movement at Plainfield, finding me in different surroundings from those in my native place,
and under the influence of deliberate and sober-minded people, put the religious question under
another light, but, still under the persuasion, the natural result of my life's training, that
some special emotion or spiritual change, recognizable as such, was an indispensable sign of
the "change of heart" which was desired, I was unhappy that no such sign appeared. I can distinctly
remember that the desire to satisfy my mother's passionate longing for what she considered
my regeneration was a large part of my desire to meet the change, and, if I might, provoke
it. I did not in spite of my efforts really understand the view which my mother, in common
with most evangelical Christians, took of the work of regeneration. The calm, rational conviction
that all men are sinners, was clear enough to me even in my youth, and the necessity of turning
from what we call "the world," to the cultivation of the higher and spiritual development of
character was equally clear, though not so in all points was the distinction between the things
condemned as worldly and those approved as religious, the theatre, games of chance, dancing,
and frivolous amusements in general being all in the index of those severe theologians.

As I remember my extreme youth I was, in spite of occasional falsehoods,--mainly the consequence
of the severity of the parental discipline and the desire to escape the punishments I had to
endure when transgressing the sometimes whimsical injunctions laid on me,--morbidly conscientious.
I was absent-minded and often forgot my duties, feeling, however, always the sting of remorse
for any omission, but, beyond taking apples or nuts for my own eating, I do not think that
I ever transgressed a commandment deliberately or knowingly; I was, in fact, regarded by the
boys of the neighborhood as hopelessly "goody." I could not understand why the desire to go
to a dancing-school and dance should be a moral transgression, though when I asked permission
of my father to accept the offer of an ex-dancing-master for whom I had been able to do some
work in the workshop, to give me preparatory lessons so that I might appear less clumsy on
entering the class, I was sternly brought to a sense of the enormity of the matter by my father's
replying, "William! I would rather see you in your grave than in a dancing-school." I could
only understand that I had not been lifted by the divine grace from the condition of total
depravity in which I had been born, and I knew that the preternatural indication of my redemption,
which would be recognized in the descent of the spirit in the form of the revival frenzy, was
wanting. I longed for it, prayed for it, and considered myself forsaken of God because it would
not come, but come it never did, and it seemed to me that I was attempting to deceive both
my mother and the church when I finally yielded to the current which carried along my young
friends, and took the grace for granted, since, as I thought, having asked the special prayers
of the elders, men of God, and powerful in influence with Him, I had a right to assume the
desired descent of the redeeming light on me, though I had never had that peculiar manifestation
of it which my companions seemed to have experienced. I felt not a little twinge of conscience
in assuming so much, but I could not consent to prolong my mother's suspense and grave concern
at the exclusion of one of her children from the fold of grace. I put down the doubts, accepted
the conversion as logical and real, and went forward with the others. I remember that at the
relation of our "experience" which followed as a rite on the presentation of the convert for
membership of the church, I was the only one who told it calmly and audibly, all the others
being inaudible from their excitement and timidity, so that the presiding elder was obliged
to repeat to the audience what they said in his ear, trembling, weeping with the emotion of
the event. I felt as if I were a hypocrite, and only the thought of my mother's satisfaction
gave me the courage to go through the ceremony. We were baptized, my companions and I, in the
little river in midwinter, after a partial thaw, the blocks of ice floating by us in the water.

I must have been about ten or eleven when I went through this experience, and I never got rid
of the feeling of a certain unreality in the whole transaction, but on the other hand I had
the same feeling of unreality in the system of theology which led to it. I tried to do my best
to carry out the line of spiritual duties imposed upon me. I made no question that I was a
bad boy, but the conception of total depravity in the theological sense never gained a hold
on me, and once inside the church there seemed to be a certain safeguard thrown over me. The
sense of ecstasy (which my Uncle William had experienced in his religious relation, the "power"
of the revivalists) I have since known in conditions of extraordinary mental exaltation, and
understand it as a mental phenomenon, as the momentary extension of the consciousness of the
individual beyond the limitations of the bodily sense--a being snatched away from the body
and made to see and feel things not describable in terms of ordinary experience, but in my
religious evolution it had no place, then or since.

The intellectual slowness of which I have spoken continued through all these years. I had left
the dame's school, where the rule of long division proved my pons asinorum, and went to a man's
school, where I earned my schooling by making the fires and sweeping the schoolroom, and here
I learned some Latin and the higher rules in arithmetic by rote, always with the reputation
of a stupid boy, good in the snowball fights of the intermission, when we had two snow forts
to capture and defend; in running foot-races, the speediest, and in backhand wrestling, the
strongest, but mentally hopeless. All this period of my life seems dreary and void, except
when I got to nature, and the delight of my hours in the fields and woods is all that remains
to me of a childhood tormented by burdens of conscience laid on me prematurely, and by a domestic
discipline the severity of which, with all the reverence and gratitude I bear my parents, I
can hardly consider otherwise than gravely mistaken and disastrous to me, though my mother's
discipline has never made me an enemy of the rod for children. My own experience as child and
parent convinces me that an inexorable, though mild, physical punishment is the only remedy
for the obstinacy of certain fractious child natures, in the years before reason operates,
and for the assurance of necessary discipline in families.

The incessant Bible lessons, filling my mind with indigestible conceptions of life present
and to come, mysteries for the contemplation of a philosopher, not for a boy of ten; the recognition
of my total depravity, as manifested in the trivial transgressions of a thoughtless child,
to whom life had hardly yet offered a duty to fulfill or transgress; the terrible gloom of
this Puritan horizon, on which no light showed me promise of better things, only to be hoped
for through a process of repentance and atonement for the sins of Adam, the fitness and method
of which process were far beyond my capacity to comprehend, as beyond that of any child,--all
these things made my intellectual life so sombre that I can but regard the long interval of
intellectual apathy as a fortunate provision against some form of mental malady consequent
on the morbid development of my early childhood.

Our winters were long and hard, and I remember the snow falling on Thanksgiving Day (the last
Thursday in November) and not thawing again until the beginning of March, and that, in the
house where I was born, we had the fall of snow so heavy that we could tunnel the path to the
barn, the drift covering the door of the house. The coming of spring was my constant preoccupation
through the winter, and my joy was intense at the first swelling of the buds, the coming color
in the willow twigs, which ushered in the changes of spring; then the catkins, the willow leaves,
and the long rains which carried off the snow, all welcome as daylight after a weary night,
because they restored me to the forests and the wildflowers, the fields and the streams; and
for miles around I knew every sunny spot where came the first anemones, hepaticas, and, above
all, the trailing arbutus, joy of my childhood, the little white violets, their yellow sisters,
then the "dog-tooth violet," and a long list of flowers whose names I have forgotten long ago.

The perennial delight of this return of springtime was the great feature of my life, and then
began the excursions into the forests around us, and the succession of sights and sounds, the
order of the unfolding of the leaves, from the willow to the oak, the singing of the frogs
in the marshes, and the birds in the copses and fields (for in the great woods there are few
singing birds). I knew them all, and when and where to hear them. The bluebird, or blue robin,
as it was called in our neighborhood, was the first, and he assured us that spring had really
come with a plaintive song, the sweetest to memory of all nature's voices; then the American
robin (the migratory thrush), a bold, cheery note, full of summer life; and after those the
chief was the bobolink, singing up into the sky like the skylark, and with which we connected
the ripening of the strawberry, the merriest and most rollicking of all bird songs, as that
of the bluebird was the tenderest. Then came the hermit thrush, heard only in the depth of
the forest, shy and remote in his life and nesting, and the whip-poor-will, in the evening.
Each was a new leaf turned over in my book of life, the reading of which was my only happiness.
What else, or more, could be expected of an existence hedged in by the terrors of eternity,
the hauntings of an inevitable condemnation, unless I could obtain some mysterious renovation,
only attainable through an act of divine grace which no human merit could entitle me to, and
which I tried in vain to win the benediction of? And how dreary seemed the heaven I was set
to win--no birds, no flowers, no fields or forests, only the eternal continuation of the hymn-singing
and protracted meetings, in which, in our system, consisted the glorification of God, which
was the end and aim of our existences! I wonder how many religious parents remember the misery
of child life under such influences.

The struggles of conscience through which I went in those days can be imagined by no one, and
I can hardly realize them myself, except by recalling little incidents which show what the
pressure must have been. I have mentioned an escapade of this period, connected with the last
flogging my father gave me, but of which that was only the secondary cause, determining the
moment but not the movement. It was a matter of conscience at bottom. My mother had, when I
was about six years old, taken a little octoroon girl of three, the illegitimate daughter of
a quadroon in our neighborhood, with the intention of bringing her up as a servant. The child
was quick-witted and irrepressible, and disputes began between us as soon as she felt at home.
I suppose she must have been inclined to impertinence, for she had to be whipped, and as at
her age no difference of condition was evident to her, she became a severe trial to my equanimity.
Every outbreak of temper induced by her conduct toward me became occasion of a period of penitence,
for I was taught that such outbreaks were sinful, and as neither had I the amount of self-control
that I needed to overlook the provocations she gave, nor had she the power of understanding
the position, the transgressions that my conscience had to bear up under became an intolerable
load.

At this juncture came the brutal and as I felt most unmerited flogging of which I have told
the story earlier: this precipitated a decision which had been slowly forming from my conscientious
worries. I determined to go away from home, and seek a state of life in which I could maintain
my spiritual tranquillity. I discussed the subject with a playmate of my age, the son of a
gardener living near us, and, as his father had even a stronger propensity to the rod than
mine, we sympathized on that ground and agreed to run away and work our passages on some ship
to a land where we could live in a modified Robinson Crusoe manner,--not an uninhabited land,
but one where we could earn, by fishing and similar devices, enough to live. I had been employed
for a few months before in carrying to and fro the students' clothes for a washerwoman, one
of the neighbors, and had earned three or four dollars which my mother had, as usual with any
trifle I earned, put into the fund for the daily expenses. I do not know how it was with the
older boys, but for me the rule was rigid--what I could earn was a part of the household income.
I inwardly rebelled against this, but to no effect, so I never had any pocket-money. I submitted,
as any son of my mother would have done at my age or have given a solid reason why not; but
on this occasion, when money was indispensable to that expedition on which so much depended,
I quietly reasserted my right to my earnings, and took the wages I had received, from the drawer
where they were kept. My companion had no money at all, and thus my trifle had to pay for both
as far as it would go,--fortunately, perhaps, as it shortened the duration of the expedition.

We went by train to Albany, where we took deck passage on a towing steamer for New York. The
run was longer than that of a passenger steamer, so that the New York police who were warned
to look out for us by the post, had given us up when we arrived and search was diverted in
another direction. We arrived at New York with my funds already nearly exhausted by the food
expenses en route, and my companion's courage had already given out--he was homesick and discouraged,
and announced his determination to return home. My own courage, I can honestly say, had not
failed me,--I was ready for hardship, but to go alone into a strange world damped my ascetic
ardor and confounded all the plans I had made. I yielded, and with the last few "York shillings"[1]
in my pocket bargained for a deck passage without board on a barge back to Albany. It was midsummer,
and the sleeping on some bags of wool which formed the better part of the deck-load gave me
no inconvenience, and the want of provisions of any sort was remedied as well as might be by
a pile of salt codfish which was the other part of the deck-load, and which was the only food
we had until our arrival at Albany, which we reached at night after a voyage of twenty-four
hours. We slept under a boat overturned by the shore that night until the rising tide drove
us out, when we decided to take the road back to Schenectady on foot, through a wide pine forest
which occupied the intervening country, a distance of about sixteen miles. Passing on the way
a stable in which there was nobody, not even a beast, we turned in to sleep away the darkness,
and I remember very well what a yielding bed a manger filled with salt gave me. With the dawn
we resumed the journey, and by the way ate our fill of whortleberries, with which the forest
abounded.

[Footnote 1: 12½ cents each.]

The joy of my mother at our unhoped-for arrival--for she had received no news of us since our
departure--is easily imagined, but for me the failure of all my plans for an ascetic and more
spiritual life was made more bitter by the fact that the little octoroon, who had heard read
the letter which I left for my mother, giving the motives for my self-exile, had repeated it
to all the neighborhood, so that I not only had failed, but became the butt of the jokes of
the boys of the neighborhood, who already held a pique against me for my serious ways and my
habit of rebuking certain vices amongst them. I was jeered at as the boy "who left his mother
to seek religion," and this made life for a time almost intolerable. But it was in part compensated
for by the change in the situation in the household. It was clear that I had ceased to be the
boy I used to be, and that I was to be taken seriously, and reasoned with rather than flogged.
I had escaped from the pupa state of existence. But what I still look back to with surprise
was my unflinching confidence in the future to which I committed myself in this escapade. I
thought I was right, and that the aspiration for spiritual freedom, which was the chief motive
of my leaving home, was certain to be supported by Providence, to whom I looked with serene
complacence. If my companion had not deserted me I should not have turned back, but his defection
destroyed all my plans. In several of my maturer ventures, I can recognize the same mental
condition of serene indifference to danger while doing what I thought my duty, owing, perhaps,
in a great measure to ignorance or incapacity to realize the danger, but also largely to ingrained
confidence in an overruling Providence which took account of my steps and would carry me through.

CHAPTER III

AN AMERICAN EDUCATION

Whether on account of the escapade related in the preceding chapter or from influences of which
I knew, and still know, nothing, it was decided not long after that I should go to New York
to attend a public school there and live with my eldest brother, who, being twenty-five years
older than myself, and childless, had always treated me with an indulgence which was perhaps
due in part to the rigor of my father's rule, and in part to his fondness for me, of which
I retain some early recollections in his annual visits home. My brother's wife, a fellow townswoman
of ours, and a marriage-convert to the Seventh Day Baptist Church, was one of the most disagreeable
persons I have ever had to deal with, and hysterical to a degree of occasional insanity. She
had adopted the severities of our Puritanic system with aggravations. The Sabbath under her
rule became a day of preatonement for the sins I was foreordained to commit. Dinner, as was
the general custom in those days, was at noon, but on Saturday I had none till I had committed
to heart and recited a portion of Scripture, and as the mental apathy of the period still weighed
on me, the task of the Seventh Day was a sarcastic comment on the divine rest, in commemoration
of which it was supposed to be instituted, and it made me grateful for the Sunday, which I
generally passed in mechanical occupations in the workshop of my third brother, Paul, the foreman
of the department in which the minor articles of the works were made, steam-gauges, models
of inventions, etc., and as I had my share of the family manual dexterity, I found interest
enough in the workshop. As my brothers always observed the Sabbath rigidly, they attracted
around them a few of the New England mechanics who were "Sabbath-keepers" and mostly related
to us, and so we had a small congregation and a church of our way of thinking.

The school to which I was sent was one of those founded by the Public School Society, a voluntary
association of well-to-do citizens, who, in the absence of any municipal initiative, had organized
themselves for the encouragement and support of primary education. As they were originally
excluded from the management of the schools, the politicians, finding this a new field of operations
and partisan activity, presently established the rival system of the municipal schools called
"ward schools." At that time the political intrigues of the Catholic Church for the control
of the public school system had just begun. The Public School Society had been organized for
the free and non-sectarian education of all children unable to meet the expense of education
in the private schools, and received subsidies from the municipality. Not only were all children
under sixteen admitted to these schools without any fees, but the books, stationery, and all
other material necessary were furnished gratuitously, and those who were shoeless were even
provided with shoes, the only requisites being cleanliness and regular attendance. The direction
was rigidly non-sectarian. The trustees were unpaid, and they comprised many of the leading
citizens interested in popular education. They had built for their service sixteen schoolhouses
in New York, and in each of these there were on an average a thousand children. The schoolhouses,
of three stories, had a primary department for such children as were too young to be taught
their letters or were not yet able to read and write, and to them the basement was given, the
second story to the older girls, and the upper to the boys. The teaching for the boys' department
was limited to the elements of arithmetic, elementary algebra, astronomy, and geometry, but
within these limits the education was thorough, and all who went through it were qualified
for places in offices or counting-rooms. The day was always opened by the reading of Scripture
and prayer by the principal or one of the assistants, and this practice was made the ground
of attack by the Catholic politicians, who objected to the Protestant Bible, all the school-books
being already expurgated of every passage to which the bishops objected.

As our assistant principal was a Catholic, and often had to read the chapter, there could have
been little harm done even to a Catholic pupil, but the political pressure was sufficient to
induce the corporation of the city to adopt the political or "ward school" system, controlled
by the politicians, and the new schools, one of which was or was to be established in each
ward of the city, began to run an active opposition to the society schools, which they eventually
drove out of existence.

At the time I was in the school, the interference of politics had just begun to make itself
felt in the schools, but the corporation had not the courage to introduce its system on a large
scale by supplanting en bloc the society schools, which might have made a political revolt;
the Irish Catholic influence was still a feeble one, and the population at large was hardly
aware of its tendency, but as the ward schools were gradually brought into active competition
with the society schools the children were drawn off from the latter by various inducements
and pressure on the parents. Each of our schools had four paid teachers--the principal, an
assistant, and a junior and a senior monitor; and the elder pupils were employed in the instruction
of the younger and in the preservation of order in school and in the school yard during the
intermissions in which the gymnastics were enforced. My mental apathy must have been still
very profound, for I remember that it often happened that when a question which had passed
other pupils came to me in the class, the senior monitor used to address me, "Well, stupid,
what do you say?" I evidently was the most stupid boy in the class--nothing seemed to penetrate
my mental dullness, but, having grown tall and strong for my age, I was often made "yard monitor,"
to keep order during the physical training.

There was a gang of young ruffians, street boys, who used to hang around the school gates and
maltreat the stragglers and even the boys in the yard, if the gate was left open, and I remember
one day three or four of them invading the school-yard after I had dismissed the boys to go
upstairs at the end of the intermission, thinking that they would have a fine game with the
monitor. One made a pretext to quarrel with me, and, gripping me round the body, called to
his companions to go and get some stones to pound me on the head with, this being the approved
manner of the young roughs of New York. Finding that I could not extricate myself from his
grip, I dragged him to the wall, and, catching him by the ears, beat his head against the rough
stones until he dropped insensible, when, to the astonishment of his comrades, instead of stamping
on him and finishing him at once, I ran upstairs as fast as my legs could carry me, so that
when they came with their stones they had only their champion to carry out.

On the holidays there were generally stone-fights between the boys of our quarter and one of
the adjoining quarters, and I shall carry to my grave the scars on my head of cuts received
in one of these field combats, in which I refused to follow my party in flight, and took the
onslaught of the whole vanguard of the enemy, armed with stones, and had my head pounded yellow,
being only saved from worse by the intervention of the men of the vicinity. This fight gave
me the unmerited reputation of courage and fighting power, and I was thereafter unmolested
by the young roughs, though, in fact, I was timid to a degree and only stood my ground from
nervous obstinacy; I never provoked a quarrel, and only revolted against a bully when the position
became intolerable. I can remember the amazement of a companion older than myself, who had
been in the habit of bullying me freely, until one day he went too far and I took him by the
collar and shook and swung him till he was dizzy and begged for mercy, for of downright pugilistics
I knew nothing, and a deliberate blow in the face with my fist in cold blood was a measure
too brutal to enter into my mind.

The dreariness of this portion of my life was beyond description. The oppression of my sister-in-law
at home, the severities of the teachers at school, and the exclusion from the influences of
nature, in which I had so long lived without restraint, resulted in an attack of nostalgia
which, when the coming of the first wildflowers brought it to a crisis, induced my brother
to send me home.

My brother was attached to me, but the jealousy of his wife towards anybody who seemed to have
any influence over him made it impossible for him to show any feeling even to me, for it brought
on furious attacks of hysteria, to appease which he had sometimes to resort to humiliating
devices. One day she became so excited that she fell into an extreme prostration and declared
that she was dying. She had every indication, indeed, of approaching dissolution, and made
her last dispositions, when my brother Charles, who was the family physician, seeing that the
danger was real, assured her husband that unless some diversion of her humor was effected she
would die. He advised exciting her jealousy, and her husband, accordingly, as if taking her
dispositions for his conduct after her death, asked her what she thought of his marrying, in
that contingency, a certain lady, whose name he mentioned, whereupon she rose in her bed in
such a rage at the suggestion (the woman being her especial detestation) that she threw off
all the symptoms of illness, and the next day went about the house as usual. This cure proved
a grave misfortune to the whole family.

In spite of my aversion I was sent back to New York the next autumn for another winter's schooling.
I landed from the steamer at the foot of Cortlandt Street two or three days after a great fire
in New York, and I saw the ruins still smoking and the firemen playing on them. My baggage--a
biscuit box, with my scanty wardrobe and a bag of hickory-nuts for my city cousins--I carried
on my shoulders and walked the length of the city, my brother living in what was then farther
New York, in Seventh Street, near the East River. At that time Fourteenth Street was the extreme
limit of the city's growth, except for a few scattering residences. Beyond, and, on the East
River side, even most of what lay beyond Seventh Street, was unreclaimed land. I sailed my
toy boats on the salt marshes where Tompkins Square now is, and I used to shoot, botanize,
and hunt for crystals all over the island beyond Thirty-Second Street, the land being sparsely
inhabited. I discovered a little wild cactus growing freely amongst the rocks, and carried
a handkerchief full of it home, getting myself well pricked by the spines, but to my botanical
enthusiasm this was nothing in view of the discovery. Only here and there patches of arable
land maintained small farmhouses, but the greater part of the surface of Manhattan Island was
composed of a poor grazing land, interspersed with rolling ledges of bare granite, on which
were visible what were then known as "diluvial scratches," which my brother Charles, who was
an ardent naturalist, explained to me as the grooves made by the irruption of the deluge, which
carried masses of stone across the broad ledges and left these scratches, then held widely
as testimony to the actuality of the great deluge of Genesis. I think that we had to wait for
Agassiz to show us that the "diluvial scratches" were really glacial abrasions, caused by the
great glacier which came down the valley of the Hudson and went to sea off Sandy Hook. At this
time my brother was making conchology his special study, and many holidays we spent on the
harbor, dredging for shells, and great was our joy when he discovered a new species, which
was named after him by the Lyceum of Natural History of New York.

The following year my fifth brother, Jacob, on leaving college, took charge of a school in
the centre of New York State, built by the Sabbatarian community at large, in De Ruyter, a
village of which many of the inhabitants were Sabbatarians, and it was decided that I should
go there to follow my studies in preparation for college. I was to "board out" a debt which
an uncle owed to my eldest brother, and which was uncollectible in any other way, and there
I made my first acquaintance with semi-independent life, exchanging a home for a dormitory
and a boarding-house. My uncle was to supply also my bedding, the academy being provided with
bedsteads; but he was a heedless man, and I remember that I had to sleep six weeks on the bed-cords,
with my wearing apparel as my only covering, before he awoke to the fact that I had a prepaid
claim on him for mattress and bedding. But we were on the edge of a great forest, and in the
almost primeval woodland I found compensation for many discomforts, and what time my tasks
spared me was spent wandering there. The persistent apathy which had oppressed me for so many
years still refused to lift, and my stupidity in learning was such that my brother threatened
to send me home as a disgrace to the family. I had taken up Latin again, algebra, and geometry,
and, though I was up by candlelight in the morning, and rarely put my books away till after
ten at night except for meals, it was impossible for me to construe half of the lesson in Virgil,
and the geometry was learned by rote. I at length gave up exercise to gain time for study,
and my despairing struggles were misery. I was then fourteen, and in the seventh year of this
darkness, and it seemed to me hopeless. Unfortunately, the academy failed to meet the expenses,
and at the end of my second term the students dispersed to their homes, I going with great
regret, for I enjoyed intensely this life on the edge of a large natural forest, through which
ran a trout brook, and in which such wild woodland creatures as still survived our civilization
were tolerably abundant. Amongst my fellow-students at De Ruyter was Charles Dudley Warner,
with whom I contracted a friendship which survives in activity, though our paths in life have
been since widely separated. I recall him as a sensitive, poetical boy,--almost girlish in
his delicacy of temperament,--and showing the fine esprit which has made him one of the first
of our humorists. His "Being a Boy" is a delightful and faithful record of the existence of
a genuine New England boy, which will remain to future generations as a paleontological record
when the race of them is extinct, if indeed it be not so already.

Returning to Schenectady, I found that the family had begun to discuss the future of my career,
which had arrived at the point of divergences. My father, who had no opinion of the utility
of advanced education for boys in our station, was tenacious in his intention to have me in
his workshop, where he needed more apprentices, but my mother was still more obstinate in hers
that I should have the education; and in the decision the voices of my brothers were too potent
not to hold the casting vote. In the stern, Puritanical manner of the family, I had been more
or less the enfant gâté of all its members, except my brother Paul, the third of my brothers,
who, coming into the knowledge of domestic affairs at the time when the family was at its greatest
straits, had expressed himself bitterly at my birth, over the imprudence of our parents' increasing
their obligations when they were unable to provide for the education of the children they had
already, and had always retained for me a little of the bitterness of those days. On the whole,
the vote of the family council was for the education. My own wishes were hardly consulted,
for I differed from both opinions, having an intense enthusiasm for art, to which I wished
to devote myself.

The collective decision, in which my father and myself were alike overruled, was that I should
go to Union College, in Schenectady, as the collegiate education was supposed to be a facilitation
for whatever occupation I might afterwards decide on. This was, so far as I was concerned,
a fatal error, and one of a kind far too common in New England communities, where education
is estimated by the extent of the ground it covers, without relation to the superstructure
to be raised on it. I had always been a greedy reader of books, and especially of histories
and the natural sciences,--everything in the vegetable or animal world fascinated me,--and
I had no ambition for academic honors, nor did I ever acquire any, but I passionately desired
a technical education in the arts, and the decision of the family deferred the first steps
in that direction for years, and precisely those years when facility of hand is most completely
acquired and enthusiasm against difficulties is strongest--the years when, if ever, the artist
is made.

That one of the gravest difficulties in our modern civilized life is the excessive number of
liberally educated young men whose professional ambitions are, and can be, given no outlet,
is now well recognized, and of these, many no doubt, like myself, are diverted from a natural
bent to follow one which has no natural leading or sequence. It was very possible for a clever
man three hundred years ago to learn all that science could show him without interference with
the acquisition of the special knowledge required to fit him for the attainment of eminence
in a technical study, or the technical mastery in the working it out, but now the range of
a liberal education is so great that those who are required to take respectable rank in a specialty
must devote themselves exclusively to it, during the years in which alone technical mastery
is possible of acquirement. There will always be many to whom the devotion to study for study's
sake is invincible, but the ranks of the brain-workers are so overcrowded that it is a great
pity to force into them a man or woman who would be content to be a worker in another and humbler
line, especially in those of the manual occupations which bring their happiness in the following
of them. In my case the result of the imposed career was a disaster; I was diverted from the
only occupation to which I ever had a recognizable calling, and ultimately I drifted into journalism,
as the consequence of a certain literary facility developed by the exercises of the college
course. The consequences were the graver that I was naturally too much disposed to a vagrant
life; and the want of a dominant interest in my occupation led to indulgence, on every occasion
that offered in later life, of the tendency to wander. I came out of the experience with a
divided allegiance, enough devotion to letters to make it a satisfaction to occupy myself with
them, but too much interest in art to be able to abandon it entirely. Before entering college,
art was a passion, but when, at the age of twenty, the release gave me the liberty to throw
myself into painting, the finer roots of enthusiasm were dead, and I became only a dilettante,
for the years when one acquires the mastery of hand and will which make the successful artist
were past.

It was decided that I should continue my preparation for college in the Lyceum of my native
town, a quaint octagonal building in which the students were seated in two tiers of stalls,
the partitions between which were on radii drawn from a centre on the master's desk, so that
nothing the pupil did escaped his supervision. The larger boys, some of whom were over sixteen,
were in a basement similarly arranged with a single tier of desks, and I earned my instruction
by supervising this room. I had here full authority so far as the maintenance of order was
concerned and kept it, though some of the pupils were older than myself. I remember that one
of them, about my own age and presumed strength, but himself convinced of his superiority,
repeated some act which I had reprimanded him for, and as I knew that to allow it to pass unpunished
was to put an end to my authority and position, yet did not feel competent or authorized to
give him a regular flogging, I caught him by the collar and jerked him into the middle of the
room, setting him down on the floor with force enough to bewilder him a little, and ordered
him to sit there till I released him, and his surprise was such that he actually did not move
till I told him to. I met no attempt to put my authority at defiance after that. A schoolfellow
here and classmate in college was Chester A. Arthur, afterward President of the United States,
a brilliant Hellenist, and one of the best scholars and thinkers in the class.

There were two associate principals at the head of the school, one for the classics, and the
other for mathematics. Of the former I became a favorite on account of the facility with which
I got on in his branches, and when the year was up I passed easily the examinations for entrance
into college, and by his advice entered in the freshman year, though fairly well prepared to
enter the sophomore with slight conditions. He was anxious that I should do him credit in college.
But long before the term was out I found that the routine gave me hardly an occupation. I had
already done all the mathematics of the year at De Ruyter, and the Latin and Greek came so
easy that I found myself idle most of my time. I decided to try a fresh examination in order
to gain a year by reëntering as a sophomore. The faculty declared such a thing unprecedented
and inadmissible, to which I replied that I would then go to another college and enter, quite
oblivious of the fact that I had neither the means nor the consent of my family to leave its
protection and go to another city. The classical principal of the Lyceum, who was also a tutor
in the college, did what he could to dissuade me, but I persisted and offered myself for examination,
and found him on the examining committee. He was really fond of me, and in my own interest
wanted me to go through college with honors, but this was to me of trivial importance, compared
with the abbreviation by a year of the captivity of college life. He punished me by putting
me to read for examination a passage of Juvenal, which I had never opened, as it did not come
in the course even of the sophomores, but I passed fairly well on it, and he, with a little
irritation, gave me the certificate, saying that it was not for what I did, but for what he
knew me to be capable of. So, conditioned by some trivial supplementary examinations on subjects
which I do not remember, I went up a class.

The constitution of Union College, like most of the American schools of the highest grade at
that time, differed from that of the English model in some respects very widely. The "University"
of Union was completed by collegated schools for medicine, divinity, law, and technical education.
The medical and law schools of Union were at Albany, the capital of New York State. Our college
buildings were three--one, West College, in the town, for the freshman and sophomore classes,
and two on the hill above the town, North and South colleges, for the juniors and seniors.
As a large proportion of the students were young men to whom the expenses of the education
were a serious matter, many prepared themselves at home to enter the junior class, so that
a class which only numbered a score as freshmen, often graduated a hundred. Others, again,
used to spend the winter term and vacations in teaching in the rural or "district" schools
to pay the expenses of the other terms, and the majority of the graduates were of these classes
of men, often adults on entering, so that the class gathered seriousness as it went on.

The freshmen and sophomores, delegated to the care of the junior professors and tutors, indulged
in many of the escapades of juvenility for which university life in most countries is distinguished,
and were continually brought under the inflictions of college discipline, and now and then
some one was expelled. The favorite tricks of getting a horse or cow into the recitation rooms,
fastening the tutors in their rooms just before the class hours, tying up, or stealing, the
bell which used to wake the students and call them to prayers or recitations, with rare and
perilous excursions into the civic domain, or a fire alarm caused by setting fire to the outhouses,
which always brought down on us the wrath of the firemen, varied the monotony of the student
life, as everywhere else; but as I roomed at home for the first year I never had part in these
escapades, and in my sophomore winter I took a district school in one of the valleys tributary
to that of the Mohawk, in which the town lies.

The community in which the school was situated was almost exclusively composed of Scotch Cameronians,
of whom several families were the descendants of a then still vigorous patriarch of the sternest
type of that creed. It was necessary to pass a special examination to get the State certificate
necessary to teach a district school, and this I had passed, but had still to undergo the questioning
of the trustees of the district, canny and cautious beyond the common. The wages for such a
school were twelve dollars a month and "board around," i.e. staying at the houses of the parents
a week for each pupil in turn, beginning with those in best estate, so that, as the school
had never less than twenty or thirty pupils, the poorer families were never called on. One
of the boys intended to go to college, and his father was willing to pay a special contribution
to secure a teacher of Latin, and this brought my wages up to sixteen dollars a month. But
the cautious Scots urged a conditional engagement,--a trial of one month,--a condition which,
as I might have anticipated, would end the engagement with the month, considering the composition
of the district and the usual difference of views among the people. The two most advanced and
oldest of the pupils belonged to families bound together by the most cordial jealousy which
a petty community could inspire, and one of these was my Latin pupil. His rival was a lazy
student and a turbulent scholar, with whom I had difficulties from insubordination from the
beginning. As, however, I had adopted the rule of depending entirely on moral suasion in the
government of the school and refused to flog, but instead offered prizes for good behavior
and studiousness at my own expense for each week, my confidence in the better qualities of
human nature betrayed me from the beginning. The prizes went to stimulate the jealousies between
the two leaders, and the only punishment I would inflict, that of sending the pupil home for
disobedience, made domestic difficulties.

The first week of the month I was boarded in the family of our patriarch, whose grandsons furnished
a number of the pupils, and the life they led me was not one to make me regret the termination
of the engagement. I was awaked while it was still night to join in family prayers, which were
of a severity of which I had never dreamed. First a long selection of Psalms was read, then
another long one sung, and then a prayer which, as I noticed by the clock, varied from ten
to twelve minutes, through which, being still drowsy, I slept, being awakened by the family
rising from their knees. This was the invariable routine gone through twice a day. As in our
own family, with the exception of the Saturday morning family service, the devotions were always
those of the closet, this tedium of godliness was a serious infliction. I was waked out of
sound sleep, and bored through, before breakfast, by vain repetitions lasting on an average
half an hour, after having endured the same for another half-hour before being allowed to go
to bed. No escape was permitted even to the ill-willing, and it may easily be imagined that
this addendum to the annoyances of my school hours made the position of the district schoolmaster
one for which sixteen dollars a month was no compensation.

The conflicts in the school, if they gave me less tedium, were all the more acute. My Latin
scholar was a lad who meant to profit by his opportunities and devoted himself to his studies,
and, naturally, had a most cordial collaboration on my part, while the son of the rival citizen
was both lazy and refractory, so that, with my system of inflicting no corporal punishments,
he got none of the weekly prizes, and got such milder punishments as could be inflicted. To
tell the truth, the pupils who were refractory to my system were few in proportion, and the
school was a pleasanter place than if the rod had been always in hand, as in the days of my
boyhood. But the month of trial did not elapse without signs of a storm brewing in the valley.
My novel system of sparing the rod and spoiling the children could not fail to provoke the
disapproval of the orthodox, and the head of the conspiracy was the father of my lazy schoolboy.

I left the valley for a visit home, on the last week of the month on Friday night, and started
back on foot, a walk of fifteen or twenty miles, on Sunday afternoon, too late for convenience
as I discovered in the event. That portion of the valley of the Mohawk, a broad and level plain,
is bounded on the west by a range or ranges of hills divided by deep valleys running north
and south, perpendicular to the course of the river, and in one of these valleys lay the township
of Princeton, in the middle of which was the schoolhouse, the farms of the community being
scattered over the hills around, and some of them at distances of a mile or two. It was the
head of the glen, and the lay of the land was almost that of an amphitheatre, cannily chosen
by the father of the colony, the old Cameronian whose prayers and long services grated so on
my New England Puritanism. Before I turned out of the Mohawk valley into that of Princeton,
the sun had set, with all the signs of a coming snowstorm, which broke on me suddenly in the
glen with a furious north wind tearing down the gorge and drifting the snow as it fell, so
that before I had gone a mile with the snow in my face, it was almost impossible to force my
way against snow and wind. I wore a long Spanish cloak, such as was much in vogue then and
there; wrapping my face in it so that only my eyes were free, I fought on, sometimes only able
to walk backward from the cutting cold against my face and eyes, making very slow progress;
but it was Sunday night, and the school must be opened at 9 A.M. on Monday. The snow gathered
in drifts often up to my middle, with bare, wind-swept spaces between, and these drifts at
times were crusted with wind-packed snow too hard to be waded through, and I was obliged to
break the snow crust by throwing myself at full length on it. In this way I struggled on till
ten at night, when I came to a solitary house by the roadside, at which I stopped to ask a
night's lodging, for I could fight the weather no longer. The house was dark and the family
asleep, but I was admitted. The bed given me was as cold as the snow outside, but it was luxury
compared to some of the quarters I had in my school district. At one of the houses at which
I had to take my turn, I remember that there had been, as an afterthought of the house architect,
a door cut between the room I slept in and the farmyard, but, whether from indifference or
inability, the door had never been put in, and a curtain which supplied its place and was intended
to keep the snow out, did it so incompletely that I found in the morning--after a snowy night--that
a heavy drift had formed between the opening and the bed. In this room, too, I shared the bed
of the hired man, who was paid the same wages as mine, and in the eyes of the community was
therefore in every way my equal.

On reaching the schoolhouse the next morning, I found gathered there not only a part of the
scholars, but some of their parents,--including the trustees of the school,--and was not long
in learning that my absence had been made use of by the disaffected of the district to depose
me. We had a brief debate, not on the question whether I should go or not, but on the grounds
of disaffection. The father of my lazy boy was, of course, the spokesman, and it seemed as
if he resented his son's not being flogged, for want of discipline and partiality were the
burden of his complaint. This gave me ample opportunity for a statement of my principles in
instruction, and to say that his son was the laziest and most stupid boy in the school, and
that instruction was wasted on him, and to contrast his progress and qualities with those of
my Latin boy. It was malicious, I admit, but it was successful in infuriating the debate, and
as I saw by the gathering that the majority had decided to avail themselves of the month's
conditional engagement to dismiss me, I was quite indifferent to the discord I left behind me.

"It's all very fine for you," said my antagonist, whose Scotch I will not attempt to reproduce,
"to sit up there on your desk and get your sixteen dollars a month, as if you were a hard-working
man,"--to which I replied, "Perhaps you think you can come up here and earn it." As I was quite
indifferent to the dismissal, and only did not avail myself of the privilege of going because
I always had an obstinate way of sticking to a thing I had begun till it was finished, I made
no attempt to conciliate, and it was with neither surprise nor serious annoyance that I received
my notice of dismissal. The only things I had enjoyed, indeed, during the month, had been the
walks through the dense forest from the farmhouses to the schoolhouse in the quiet sunshine
of the winter mornings. The woods were more natural and older than those around my home, and
there was a freshness in the early day which I never had realized so fully as in these morning
walks to school, and I shall always remember the snowy silence of that forest, the first, on
that scale, I had become familiar with.

But the poverty of the lives of these prosperous farmers was a revelation even to me, accustomed
as I was to a domestic simplicity which would surprise modern Americans of any degree. New
books were a luxury none of them indulged in; beyond the Bible and two or three volumes of
general information, there was no reading except a weekly newspaper, and the diet was such
as I had never been used to, even at De Ruyter. But for the vegetables of the farm, sailors
at sea would fare better than these landsmen. In later years I boarded with one of the farmers
in an adjoining valley, where I was engaged in painting a cascade of great beauty, and for
the six weeks I lived in the family I saw only two articles of animal food--salt mackerel for
breakfast and salt pork for dinner. The narrowness of intellectual range and the bigotry--political
and religious--prevailing amongst them was such as I had in no experience ever encountered,
even in the "straitest sect of the Pharisees," the Seventh Day Baptist Church of my youth.
In the community in which I had grown, there was always the early influence of the sea to widen
the range of thought and sympathy, but here, in the narrow valley to which the farmer was confined,
neither nature nor religion seemed to have any liberating or liberalizing power. A sturdy independence
was the dominant trait of character, but this independence was converted into a self-enslavement
by the narrow range of thought which everywhere prevailed. The old Cameronian patriarch, in
his sectarian exaltation, seemed almost a luminary in the intellectual twilight of that secluded
community, and it was possible there to understand how even a narrow religious fanaticism could
become an ennobling element in the character of a community living in such a restricted and
materializing atmosphere. A few weeks in such a state of society enables one to understand
better the irresistible attraction of cities and the life in the midst of multitudes to the
rustic, born and raised in the back-water stagnation of a rural life like that of the farmers
of my school district.

The remaining two months of the broken term of the college course and the better part of the
vacation were spent in my father's workshop, where the work was rather pressing and the shop
short-handed. My father's business was mainly the manufacture of certain mechanical implements
for which he and his brother held the patents, and in the spring and autumn he was accustomed
to carry the consignments of them to his customers in New York. His workshop was resorted to
by several ingenious fellow New Englanders who had inventions to work out, and in the execution
of these I was found useful. Among these was one Daniel Ball, whose specialty was locks, of
which he invented, patented, and sold the patents of a new one every year, all worked out in
my father's shop. Ball was a man of remarkable mechanical ingenuity and extraordinary profanity--of
a savage temper, and very exclusive in his human sympathies; but he had a profound reverence
for my father, of whom he used to say that "Old Joe Stillman was the only honest man God ever
made," and I am inclined to think, looking back on a long life and wide experience in men of
all classes and many nations, that Ball was justified in the esteem he held my father in, though
admissibly wrong in his exclusiveness,--for I cannot recall, in all my memories of the old
man, a single instance of his hesitating over the most trivial transaction in which a question
of honesty was involved, and I have known him to relinquish his clear rights rather than to
provoke a disagreement with a neighbor. He had a profound aversion to any ostentation of religious
fervor, as had my mother. If he had lived to-day he would certainly have been an advanced evolutionist;
even then his liberality in matters of doctrine and his unbounded charity towards all differences
of opinion in religious questions used to cause my mother great anxiety as to his orthodoxy.
He thought the fields and woods better places to pass the Sabbath in than a meeting-house,
and this was a subject of great pain to her, the more that he developed the same feeling in
me; but he never deferred in these matters to anybody, and never held a shade of that reverence
for the clergy which was almost a passion in my mother's nature. While of an extreme tenderness
of heart to all suffering or hardship outside the family, even towards animals, his domestic
discipline was brutal and narrow. In the latter respect he was a survival of the old New England
system; in the former, himself.

I had a parrot given me by one of my brothers returning from the Southern States, and the bird
took an extravagant fondness for my father rather than for me. He was allowed to go free about
the house and garden, and would go and sit on the fence when my father should be coming back
from the workshop to dinner and supper, and run to meet his footstep long before he was in
sight, chuckling and chattering with delight. Early one morning the parrot got shut, by chance,
in the cupboard, and, attempting to gnaw his way out, was mistaken for a rat, and father took
the shovel to kill him, while mother carefully opened the door so that the rat might squeeze
his way out to be killed, but poor Poll got the blow instead, and had his neck broken. All
that day my father stayed at home weeping for Polly, and no business misfortune in my recollection
ever affected him as the death of the parrot did. He could flog me without mercy, but he could
not see the suffering of a domestic or wild animal without tears, nor would he tolerate in
us children the slightest tendency to cruelty to the least living thing.

I have alluded to the differences between him and my mother on the subject of education, the
inutility of which, beyond a common-school standard, he made an article of faith, and the return
to the workshop for the balance of the vacation, after my school-teaching failure, was the
occasion of the final battle. As the vacation drew to an end, and the time which was still
available for studying up the subjects of the last term, for the examination on reëntering,
approached its imperative limit, I notified him that I must stop work. He said nothing until
I had actually given it up and gone back to my study, about two weeks before the examination
day. Coming home from the shop that day to dinner, in a very bad humor, he asked me why I had
not been at work. I replied that I had barely the time absolutely necessary to make up my arrears
of study to enter college for the next term. Then he broke out on me with a torrent of abuse
as an idle, shirking boy, who only cared to avoid work, ending with the accusation that all
I wanted was to "eat the bread of idleness," a phrase he was very fond of. I suppose I inherited
some of his inequality of temper, and I replied by leaving the table, throwing my chair across
the room as I did so; and, assuring him that when I ate another morsel of bread in his house
he would know the reason why, I left the house in a towering rage. Having forewarned him days
before that I must go, without his making the least objection, and having postponed the step
to the latest possible moment, out of consideration for the work in hand, I considered this
treatment as ungenerous, and was indignant.

I do not think that, weighing all the circumstances of the case, one could say that my father
was entitled to impose his authority in a purely arbitrary interference with a matter in which
the family council had decided on my course, and which involved all my future, or that my refusal
to obey an irrational command implies any disrespect to him. At all events, I decided at once
that I would not yield in this matter, and I made my preparations to seek another home, even
with a modification in my career. If I must abandon the liberal education, I would not waste
my life in a little workshop with three workmen, and no opportunity to widen the sphere of
activity, or opening into a larger occupation. If I should be obliged to leave the college,
it should be for something in the direction of art, and in this light I did not much regret
the change. I had not, however, calculated on my mother's tenacity, or the imperceptible domination
she exercised over my father.

When I returned to the house to get my clothes and make my preparations for leaving home for
good, I had a most painful scene with my mother, and it was the only serious misunderstanding
I ever had with her. She went through, in a rapid résumé, the history of my life, from the
day when I was given her in consolation for the little brother before me, who died, with a
word for each of the crises through which her care had carried me,--accidents, grave maladies,
for I was apparently not a strong child, and at several conjunctures my life had been despaired
of; all the story being told as she walked up and down rapidly in the chamber, with the tears
running down her cheeks, and with a passionate vehemence I had never suspected her to be capable
of, since she had the most complete self-restraint I ever knew in a woman. But it was an impasse--I
neither could nor would go back from the career decided upon, nor would the family have consented,
and to return to the workshop at my father's insistence was to lose everything. It seemed brutal
to refuse mother's entreaties to ignore the collision of wills, and to go on as if nothing
had happened, but to do this and remain in the house with my father, in the perpetual danger
of another conflict, was impossible. The question had to be settled, and all I could do was
to insist on father's making a distinct disavowal of any right or intention to demand my services
in the shop at any future time, and leaving me free to follow the programme agreed on in the
family council. It was in effect a frank apology that I wanted, but I knew him too well to
suppose he would ever consent to make an apology in words, or to admit to me that he had made
a mistake; and I left the solution in my mother's hands, with the understanding that the definite
promise should be made to her, and I knew too that this would hold him as completely as if
made to a public authority. Nothing could bring her to contradict him openly, and in all my
life I never saw her make a sign of disrespect for his mastery in domestic things, but I knew
that once this promise was made to her I could count on his being held to it sternly.

That evening the matter was settled, but of what had passed, or what was said, I never knew
anything, for my mother never wasted words; and, while no apology was made, or any retraction
expressed, neither my father nor myself ever alluded to the subject of my working in the shop
again, nor did I ever, as before, go into it during the vacations, or offer to assist when
affairs were hurried. The habit of asserting the paternal authority and the sense of it, in
my father, were so strong that I never risked again reviving it.

CHAPTER IV

COLLEGE LIFE

I passed my examination and resumed my place in the class, but I never tried district school-teaching
again. Entering upon my junior year I had a room in the north college. Each of the upper buildings--which
properly should have been called halls--was divided into five sections, in effect separate
residences, each being under the custody of one of the professors or tutors, who was responsible
for order in the same, the two end sections of each of the colleges being an official residence
for one of the senior professors with families. The rule required the students to be in their
rooms after supper, but it was almost as much honored in the breach as in the observance, and,
though the skylarking which resulted from the former often brought the section officer up,
those who had any tact avoided too close an insistence on the regulations, so that the students
in the same sections commonly visited each other in the evenings, and not infrequently those
from the other sections came in.

Our quarters were of the simplest,--one room for two students, with one wide bed,--and there
we lived and studied. At half-past five the bell rang to wake us, and half an hour later for
prayers, the sleepy ones returning to sleep after the waking bell, and thrusting themselves
into their clothes as they ran when the prayer-bell rang, to get to prayers before the roll-call
was over. From prayers again we dispersed to the recitation rooms for the morning recitations,
and then to breakfast, mostly in town. There were two boarding-houses, one at each end of the
college walk, known as "North" and "South" halls and forming part of the architectural scheme
of the institution, and here board was provided at somewhat lower terms than at the private
boarding-houses in town, and of very much inferior quality. The price at the halls was, if
I remember correctly, $1.25 a week for three meals a day, that in the town ranging from $1.50
to $1.75. Furnished rooms in the town cost 75 cents per week more, and a few favored or wealthier
students had permission to room in them, but as a rule the undergraduates of Union were men
of very limited means, on which account the president and founder of the college, Dr. Nott,
had planned its regulations to facilitate the attendance of that class of students, and the
rules were such as closely to restrict the students from any participation in the social life
of the towns-people. The visits of the section officers to the rooms of the students were irregular,
and the inquisition into the causes of absence so thorough, that few, not of the most reckless,
cared to risk a visit to the town, half a mile from the upper buildings; and the old doctor's
police was too good for men to escape detection in any serious indulgence in irregular hours.

Union was, at this epoch, and during the active life of the doctor, the third university of
the United States, coming, in the general estimation and the number of its graduates, immediately
after Yale, Harvard being then, as always, the first; and it owed its character and peculiar
reputation to the strong and singular personality of its first president. I have, in the course
of my life, become more or less acquainted with many able men, and Dr. Nott was the most remarkable
of all the teachers I have ever known, considering the limitation of his position and profession,--that
of a Presbyterian clergyman in a time when sectarian differences ran high, and his sect had
no lead in public opinion. He had attained his position by the force of his character assisted
by his extraordinary tact and eloquence, but unaided by patronage, and this at the beginning
of the nineteenth century, a time when institutions were forming and nothing was settled in
the character of society. The manual of public speakers which we used to draw on for the speeches
in class recitations included, as one of the most brilliant examples, the doctor's oration
on the death of Alexander Hamilton, killed in a duel with Aaron Burr, one of the earliest and
the most prominent of the demagogues of America. I have not read the oration for fifty years;
but, as I remember it, it was, in the fashion of the day, one of the most eloquent of all our
readings.

As I was a favorite of the doctor in the last year of my course and for years after, and as
no one has ever in my estimation done him justice, it is to me a debt of gratitude, as well
as a matter of justice, to repair as best I may this neglect. No one but a pupil could ever
have fairly estimated his force of character, and no pupil whose intercourse with him was not
carried into the post-graduate years could measure the ability with which he advised, especially
in political matters, with his old pupils. In the days of his activity, no institution in the
country furnished so large an element to the practical statesmanship of the United States as
did Union. Seward was one of his favorite pupils, and it is well known that, up to the period
of the American Civil War, he never took a step in politics without the advice of the doctor.
Having had a struggle with poverty in his own early life, Dr. Nott sympathized heartily with
the poorer students, and a practical education was more easily gained at Union than was then
possible at Yale or Harvard. Men were allowed to defer payment of the fees till later life
when their means had increased; and, though there were no scholarships, there were many students
whose burdens were so far alleviated by the regulations that an earnest man who was determined
to take his degree and work his way if he must, needed never leave college unsatisfied.

The doctor's reading of character and detective powers were barely short of the miraculous,
and his management of refractory students became so well known that many who had been expelled
from the other universities were sent to Union and graduated with credit, so that the college
acquired the nickname of "Botany Bay." There came to him once for admission a student expelled
from Yale for persistent violation of the regulations, and naturally without the letter which
by general usage was required from the president of one university to another, certifying the
good standing of the student. The president of Yale wrote to the doctor to ask "if he meant
to take that scoundrel into his college." The doctor, who had made a rapid examination of the
man, replied, "Yes, and make a man of him." In one of my post-graduate years, when I was staying
with the doctor, he told me the story of this man. He had estimated his character at a glance
correctly, and saw in him a mismanaged student. He was admitted unconditionally, as if he had
come with the best of characters, and for a time he justified the confidence reposed in him.
But the uneasy nature one day broke out, and he committed a gross violation of the rules. The
discipline of the doctor began always with a friendly conversation, and with some men ended
with it, for he knew so well how to paint the consequences of expulsion that it sufficed; but
on the entry of this student into his library, he saw on looking at him that he "had the devil
in his eye." He had, in fact, said to his roommate on getting the summons to the interview,
"If the doctor thinks he is going to break me in he'll find himself mistaken." The doctor had
a curious kind of vision which made it impossible to say which of the persons in the room he
was looking at, and when, while seeming to be engaged on his book, he had looked into the eyes
of the student, and saw that the light of battle was kindled in them, he waited for a little,
and then, as if preoccupied, said to him in his most kindly tone, "I am very much occupied
at this moment, my son; won't you come in to-morrow evening?" The young man went back to his
room already half conquered by the affectionate manner, but the important point gained in the
doctor's tactics was that the psychological moment of combat in the student had been reached
and could not be kept up for a day, and when on the next evening the interview took place,
his combativeness had given place to perplexity and complete demoralization. In this state
the doctor gave him a paternal lesson on the consequences to his future life of the rebellion
against necessary discipline and of persistent disorderly conduct, but without any actual reproof
or mention of his offense, and all in his invariably kindly tone as if it were a talk on generalities,
and then dismissed him to think it over. He had established cordial relations with the rebel,
and from that day had no trouble with him, and he graduated at the head of his class.

And the doctor understood men so well that he never wasted his trouble on those who had nothing
in them, but let them drift through the course unnoted. Expulsions were very rare, and the
secret police of the university was so competent that the almost absolute certainty of detection
generally deterred the men from serious infractions of the rules. The government seemed to
be based on the policy of giving an earnest man all the advantages to be got out of the institution,
and getting the indifferent through the course with the least discredit. In a state of society
in which the collegiate standing was of importance to a man's career, this condition of things
would have been a grave objection to the college, but in our western world the degree had very
little importance, and the honors no effect on the future position. Most of the prominent men
of our past had not even been through any university, and in politics it was often rather an
obstacle than a recommendation that a man was a "college man." What the doctor tried to do,
then, was to make a man when he found the material for one, and to ignore the futile intellects.
This was the scheme of the education at Union when I was there, and it rarely failed to find
the best men in the class and bring them forward.

Our college life may have been to the men of sufficient means more largely supplied with the
elements of excitement, but for the poorer students there was little romance in it. Now and
then a demonstration against an unpopular professor, a "bolt," i.e. abstention en masse from
a recitation; or a rarer invasion of the town and hostile demonstration gave us a fillip, but
the doctor had so well policed the college and so completely brought under his moral influence
the town, that no serious row ever took place in my time. Later he told me how he managed one
of the worst early conflicts, in which the students on one side of the college road, and the
town boys on the other, were arrayed in battle order, determined to fight out the question
who were the better men. The doctor had early notice of the imminent row, and, fetching a circuit
behind the "town," encouraged the boys on that side with assurances of his impartiality and
even his satisfaction with a little punishment of the students, if they were aggressive. "But,"
said he, "don't begin the fight and put yourselves in the wrong. If my boys come over, thrash
them well, but let them strike the first blow." Having put them in the strongest defensive
attitude, believing that they had the doctor with them, he went round to the students and applied
the same inducements to the defensive, leaving them under the persuasion that he entirely approved
their fighting, and then he went home and left them to their conclusions. As time passed and
neither took the offensive, they all cooled off and went home.

The tact with which he dealt with the occasional outbreaks in the college was very interesting.
If it was a case of wanton defiance of the habitual order, there was a very slight probability
of its being overlooked. A favorite prank of the stealing of the college bell was invariably
punished, first by having a hand-bell rung a little earlier than regulation hours all through
the sections; and, when his secret police had discovered the offenders, they were punished
according to custom, never very severely, but sufficiently so to make them feel humiliated.
But the mystery of his police was never explained, and we were always at a loss to conjecture
how he discovered the most elaborately concealed combinations, so that suddenly, even weeks
after, when the culprits thought they had finally escaped detection, he would announce at prayers
that they were to come to his study to explain. If the outbreak, however, had been in any way
justified by an arbitrary or unwise act of discipline by any of the professors, he used to
ignore it altogether.

The professor of mensuration, a fussy and consequential little fellow, a volunteer on the staff,
and a man of singularly slight knowledge of young men, very fond of showing his authority,
especially at the public examinations at the end of the term, had incurred the wrath of the
class and become the butt of all its practical jokes. Having boasted one evening in society
of the town that the students dared not rebel against him, and the boast coming to their knowledge,
not a single student presented himself at the recitation next morning. The next day he was
greeted with such disorder that it was necessary to suspend the exercises, and one of the most
violent demonstrators finished by throwing a huge wooden spoon at him, which, hitting him on
the head, ended the row. His public examinations were the most severe we had to go through,
and often quite needlessly so, in order to impress the visitors with his own knowledge rather
than with ours, and as the end of a term drew near, I think in my last junior term, a conspiracy
was got up to put him hors de combat for that examination. It was decided to take him out of
his room in the section (he was section officer in my own section) and bring him into the pine
woods in the rear of the college, and there, unless he solemnly promised to stay away from
his class examination, to cut off his hair and tar his head first, then crop his beard, and,
if he was still refractory, to strip him (it was midsummer) and tie him to a tree and leave
him all night, under the conviction that he would not show himself at examination after that
experience.

In the small hours, the conspirators, provided with a duplicate key to the professor's door,
made a stealthy attempt to open it, but found his key on the inside and were unable to open
the door, but woke the victim, who, however, dared not raise an alarm. One of the smaller students
tried to climb in through the ventilator, but this was nailed down, and then as a last resort
the "smoking machine" was brought into action. This was an "infernal machine," employed in
hazing students who had in any way offended the opinion of the class, especially by indecorous
subservience to the authorities or informing against their fellow students. The latter was
a rare offense and never pardoned. The smoking machine consisted of a short length of stove-pipe
with a nozzle at each end, into one of which was introduced a bellows, and the other was put
through the keyhole of the door of the offender. In the body of the pipe was a bed of lighted
charcoal, and on this was sprinkled tobacco and assafoetida, and the smoke was driven into
the room in such quantities that no human being could resist it more than a few minutes. The
smoking was continued for ten minutes, when, as the professor did not surrender, it began to
be feared that the joke had gone too far, and two of the conspirators went out to see if there
were any external signs of vitality, and found that the victim had opened his window and was
lying with his head below the window-sill so as to be out of the smoke which poured out over
him. I suppose that the delegates were drunk, for one of them threw a block of wood at the
professor's head which, missing him, drove in the window pane and finished the experiment.

It was the gravest outrage of my time, and had there not been so large a part of the senior
class implicated in the conspiracy, directly or indirectly, there is no doubt that the doctor
would have taken the most severe measures for the punishment of those concerned. No partial
punishment would have been possible, and the general irritation against that particular professor
was so great in the class, and his course had been so little in conformity with the usages
of the college, that the doctor thought best to ignore the affair completely. The professor
was completely cowed, and we had no more browbeating from him. But the practical jokes played
on him were never attempted with any other member of the faculty, all of them having been trained
in the doctor's own school. Except possibly the oldest of them, all were graduates at Union
under him; and his system of elastic, unceasing pressure, constant and unobtrusive surveillance,
and simple appeals to the students' higher interests and manly feeling were so generally potent
in the government of the college that the petty tyranny of the mensuration professor, nicknamed
"Geodesy," found no support in the faculty, though the same elastic system which threw the
responsibility of final results on the individual left him the same freedom of action which
it gave us, and he had to learn his lesson while he taught us ours.

The students mostly joined one or other of a large number of secret societies, mainly social
and never scholastic, which had, almost without exception, originated at Union, spreading to
other universities by migration or initiation of their members. The distinction most sought
for by ambitious students, the marshalship of the "commencement" ceremonies,--i.e. the conferring
of degrees, speech-making, etc., of the graduating class,--was an elective office and voted
for by all the members of the class, so that, for this position of a day, scholarship was only
of secondary importance, the personal popularity of the candidates determining the election.
The societies grouped themselves in two parties, the most popular man in each party was its
candidate, and the canvassing ran more or less actively through the senior year, occupying
largely the attention of the students. These societies were in general boyish imitations of
the Freemasons, though the most eminent, the Phi Beta Kappa, was an old and dignified institution,
having been founded in 1776, at William and Mary College, whence it soon spread to Harvard
and Yale, eventually establishing itself in most of the principal colleges of the country;
at Union, under the control of the faculty, it became the high literary distinction of the
class, only the third of the class with the highest collective record being admitted at graduation.
Each of the societies had its secrets, its secret meetings, its grip and passwords, and it
always seemed to me, though I was early initiated into one which had a distinguished record
and literary reputation, that it was a folly and a waste of the energies of the students. Opposed
to them all was an anti-secret society, and this, like the others, was known by the initials
of the secret name, which was supposed to be Greek and to indicate, mysteriously, the character
of the society. Students at the earliest date, generally in the first weeks of attendance,
were thoroughly canvassed by the members of these societies, and invited, in accordance with
their characters, to enter one or the other, those of a studious tendency finding most favor
with that to which I was invited, and which consisted mostly of poor and studious men, others
according to their social standing or wealth, or even their tendency to a wild life.

Besides this we had a house of representatives for the juniors and a senate for the seniors,
over which two of the senior professors presided, knowing the rules of the respective branches
of Congress, and requiring their observance in the debates, which echoed the grave political
questions of the day. There was no lecturing system, and there was no such thing known as coaching;
and the recitations consisted, like those in the juvenile schools, in answering questions taken
from the lesson in standard textbooks, and called out no special abilities in the students
which could distinguish the men of mark from the merest bookworms. There were men who never
read the lesson and depended on being prompted by a friend. One of these derelicts, the son
of a famous brewer, gave us a laugh which no member of the class can have forgotten. He was
known for drinking enormous quantities of his father's beer and sleeping even in class; and
when the question put him was, "Who was the reputed inventor of poetry amongst the Greeks?"
he had no answer till the man behind him whispered, "Orpheus." He caught it badly, and roared,
"Morpheus." The laugh that followed stopped recitation for ten minutes. A laugh in a large
class had a curious way of going on indefinitely.

Until we reached the senior year, and came under the direct care of the old doctor, there was
nothing in the course to awaken special ambitions. The honors, determined chiefly by the marks
given at the end of the term, being mainly the reward of a diligence rather stupid than otherwise,
as a rule were regarded with great indifference, and, for the most part, fell to the men who
"poled" most assiduously, and got the best marks for attention, diligence, and correct recitation
of the set tasks. As I look back on the life and work of that period, it seems to me that it
was most unintelligently spent, and when I reached my senior year, and came under the direct
stimulus of Dr. Nott, I recognized that, so far as the true education was concerned, I had
wasted two years, and had I been master of my future I should have been inclined to go back
to the beginning and repeat the three years' course of study under the new light, and with
a recognition of the purpose of higher study, for I saw that all that I had gained was little
more than parrot learning. The doctor indeed tried to make us think, and he used to say that
the textbook was a matter of entire indifference, and that he would as soon have a book of
riddles as Kames's "Elements of Criticism," so long as he could make us think out our conclusions.
With him our recitations were a perpetual contest of our wits against his; he showed us the
shallowness of our acquisitions, and dissected mercilessly both textbook and the responses
to the questions which he had drawn from it, admitting nothing and pushing the pupil perpetually
into the deeper water as soon as he began to think his foot had touched firm land. The first
term under the doctor brought up every intellectual faculty I possessed, and I suppose it was
to this intense appreciation of his leading that I owed his friendship and partiality in the
following years. So far as the influence of school can go, I owe to him the best of my education,
and especially the perception of the meaning of the word itself. In the senior year I turned
back in my life and sought not to hasten, but to linger in the precincts of study, and the
imperious necessity of getting to the only occupation which would give me the independence
I desired, alone deterred me from a post-graduate course of study to compensate for the inadequacy
of the past years.

In entering the church, Dr. Nott had deprived the world of a statesman of no ordinary calibre,
but in the eyes of the Protestant, as of the Catholic Church, in the country which had its
precedents to make, as in that which had precedents a thousand years old, the maxim, "once
a priest always a priest," kept him in the pulpit, to which he had no irresistible call, and
to which the accident of his career only had led him. Had the church to which he belonged been
organized with an episcopal government, he had certainly been its primate; but in the vague
and incoherent condition of the Congregational churches, to one of which he belonged, there
was no career beyond that of the isolated pastorate of a single congregation. In this insufficiency
of interest for an active and influential life there was only the educational calling left
to satisfy his enormous mental activity, and in this he found his place. The future, which
may look for his record in libraries, or in the results of research, scientific or literary,
will not find him to occupy a position. He had, however, great mechanical inventive powers,
as well as a marvelous knowledge of human nature; the former solved the problem, amongst others,
of anthracite coal combustion for American steamers. In the latter lay his qualifications as
the greatest teacher of young men of his generation.

Nobody could know him except the pupils to whom he disclosed himself, and to whom his kindly
and magnanimous nature was unreservedly open, and they were few, and the list is fast being
canceled; when we are gone, no one will ever comprehend how he could have been what he was.
But the power he always exercised over his favorite boys was extraordinary; any of us would
have done anything permitted to human nature to satisfy his wish. An instance of his influence,
occurring later in my life, will illustrate his power over his old pupils. When, several years
subsequent to my graduation, and on the election of Lincoln as President, I had used what influence
I could enlist with the government (my brother being a prominent Republican) to get the appointment
as consul to Venice, which was generally given to an artist, the principal petition in my favor
went from Cambridge. It was written by Judge Gray (now on the Supreme Court bench), headed
by Agassiz and signed by nearly every eminent literary or scientific man in Cambridge, but
it lay at the Department of State more than six months, unnoticed. In the interim the war broke
out and I had gone home from Paris, where I was then living, to volunteer in the army; but,
being excluded by the medical requirements, and the ranks being full,--800,000 volunteers being
then enrolled,--I turned to my project for Venice, and wrote a word to Dr. Nott, recalling
his promise of years before to use his influence in my favor, if ever it were needed. He inclosed
my letter, with one containing an indorsement of it, and sent it to Seward, the Secretary of
State, and the appointment--not to Venice, which had just been given to Howells, but to Rome--came
by return of post.

Union was then the only university of importance not under some form of denominational control,
and for this reason had, perhaps, more than the usual share of extreme liberalism, or atheism,
as it was at that time considered amongst the students; and one of my classmates, a man a couple
of years older than myself, and of far more than the average intellectual power, made an active
propaganda of the most advanced opinions. He also introduced Philip James Bailey's "Festus"
to our attention, and for a time I was carried away by both. The great revulsion from my previous
straitened theological convictions was the cause of infinite perplexity and distress. Up to
that time nothing had ever shaken me in my orthodox persuasions, and the necessity of concealing
from my mother and family my doubts and halting faith in the old ideas made it all the more
perplexing. I had to fight out the question all alone. It was impossible to follow my classmate
so completely as to accept his conclusions and become the materialist that he was, and so find
a relative repose; and the conflict became very grave. The entire scheme of Christianity disappeared
from my firmament; but, in the immediately previous years, I had been a reader of Swedenborg,
and I held immovably an intuition of immortality,--or, if the term intuition be denied me,
the conviction that immortality was the foundation of human existence, grounded in my earliest
thoughts, and as clear as the sense of light,--and this never failed me. In this respect Swedenborg
helped my reason in its struggle, though I could never see my way to the entire acceptance
of his doctrine.

My dogmatic theological education had been entirely incidental, for my mother never discussed
dogmas or doctrines, but the simple duties and promises of religion, and my intelligence had
never been, therefore, so kept captive as to make release grateful. Christianity had never
been a doctrinal burden to me, or any form of belief inconsistent in my mind with true Christianity.
In my mother's thought there was only one thing utterly profane, and that was self-righteousness.
And there happened to me in this conjuncture, what has in my later life been often seen, that
the modification of religious views imposed on us by the superior force of another mind--a
persuasion of what seems to be truth as it is only seen by others' vision--could not hold its
own against the early convictions, and that a revulsion to the old faith was sooner or later
inevitable and generally healthy. The epidemic passed, and, though it gave me great distress
for the time, it made my essential religious convictions stronger in the end. It is, I think,
Max Müller who says that no man can escape from the environment of his early religious education.
I have seen, in my experience of life and men, many curious proofs of that law, men who have
lived for many years in the most absolute rejection of all religions, returning in their old
age to the simple faith of childhood, ending as they began. The change of religious convictions
which holds its own against all influences is that which comes from the healthy evolution of
our own thought. At any rate, in my own case, the rationalistic revolution completed its circle
and brought me back to that simple faith to remain in which is a reproach to no man, and the
departure from which, to be healthy, must be made on lines conformed to our better natures.
I felt the better for my excursion into new regions, and the freedom of movement I acquired
I never lost.

As I am telling the story of a phase of human life in which the study of the religious character
will be to some readers, perhaps, one of the chief subjects of interest, and as to me the whole
subject is now purely objective, as a mental phenomenon in the life of another man would be,
I am tempted to tell a romantic incident of this period of my evolution, because it illustrates
clearly the state of mind and sentiment developed by the peculiar education and surroundings
of my youth. In one of the winter vacations of my course, my brother Paul, who was an ardent
and sanguine proselyter in the Seventh-Day doctrine, charged me with an expedition up the Mohawk
valley as a colporteur, to distribute Sabbath tracts, and, occasion arising, to discuss, with
those who offered, the doctrine involved. The snow was deep, and, wading in it from house to
house in all the towns as far as Utica, I finished with a visit to the home at Whitestown,
near by, of my old friend the former preceptress of the De Ruyter Academy, with whom I had
always been a favorite, and who had taught me French (very little) and drawing (very little
more), but who was a charming and poetical creature. I had not heard of her for years, and
the latest news was that she had become insane through a cruel disappointment in love,--her
lover having wantonly, and without offering a pretext, broken off the engagement just before
the wedding day,--and had been sent to a lunatic asylum. I found her at home, a wretched shadow
of her old self, listless, and in a settled melancholy, which the doctors said was incurable.
She had in fact been discharged from the asylum as a hopeless lunatic, though the violent phase
of the insanity had passed. It occurred to me that a diversion to old times would awaken her
again to a sense of the present, and I tried to draw her back to the academy life by talking
of it as if nothing had happened. That something unwonted was passing in her mind soon became
evident, and finally she burst out with, "Why, Willie" (she had always so called me in the
old times), "didn't you know I had been crazy?" The manner, the suddenness of the conflict
between old associations and her present state, the mingling of our old affection, for I had
in my boyhood held her very dear, as she had me, so overpowered me that I burst into tears,
and she threw her arms around me and kissed me again and again. What the feeling which sprang
up on her part was I could never quite understand,--doubtless it was partly the delight of
a sudden relief from the old, monotonous pain, the unexpected unbending of a tense and overborne
mind and momentary obliteration of the dreary immediate past, and partly the outburst of a
passionate temperament which I had never suspected; but on my part there arose an attachment
as chivalric as ever a knight of Arthur's time felt, yet perfectly platonic. That she was nearly
old enough to have been my mother did not in the least matter--it was no question of love as
young folks feel it; but in my heart I offered myself a bearer of her sorrows. I had only recently
recovered from my wandering into the wilderness of doubt, and my religious faith was as vivid
as when I had been at my mother's knee--Providence ruled, and God answered prayer. This phase
of my life, juvenile as I now perceive it to be, I respect as the most honest in it. I honor
the weakness as I cannot always what seems the later strength. Those who read my life may put
the estimate on it which suits their creed; I only speak of it as a phenomenon of my Puritan
youth. I prayed earnestly that I might take on myself her afflictions, if so she might be healed
and come back to her right mind. That was Friday night, for her family were "Seventh-Day keepers,"
and I had gone to pass the Sabbath with them, so I stayed two days, continuing my devotions
earnestly. On Monday I went back to my colportage, but that night I was taken with a sharp
attack of bronchitis, with high fever, and obliged to keep my room at the hotel. The next day,
finding the matter serious, I sallied out and returned to the house of her parents, and remained
there while the attack lasted. A naturally strong constitution was my safety, and made light
of what was really a sharp attack of acute trouble, which kept me in the house a considerable
time, the care and happy charge of my friend.

What any physician of minds would have foreseen took place. She found in the attention to her
patient the diversion from all the train of past preoccupations, and forgot in this absolutely
novel situation the old trouble. To the delight of the family she began to take an interest
in the affairs of the house, and, though for years she had utterly neglected the most trivial
attention to her dress and personal appearance, and had shown such a determinedly suicidal
disposition that her mother had been obliged to sleep in the same bed with her to be able to
watch her effectively, she now became bright and cheerful and seemed her old self again. From
that time forward she rapidly recovered, and when I went back to college we began a close correspondence
which was the beginning of my real literary education, for her taste in literature was excellent,
if a little sentimental, and her criticisms were so sound that in some respects they have never
lost their effect on my way of thinking and expressing thought. She was persuaded to come to
Schenectady and pass the period of my next vacation in our family. Her insanity absolutely
disappeared, she returned to healthy activity in her old vocation as teacher, and the year
after, to my great annoyance, married her former fiancé. I was angry with her, not for marrying,
but for marrying him after his shameful treatment of her. She seemed to me, and to her family
also, to have thrown herself away on a man who had proved himself utterly unworthy any woman's
devotion. All my chivalry, too, seemed wasted, and the only result of the experiment was the
dissipation of an ideal, the naïve expectation of the vicarious penalty to which I had in my
sincerity offered myself having passed away. Convinced, that I had cured her, I was indignant
at having cured her for him, but I suffered no visitation of contempt for women, and my indignation
was the deepest feeling that remained from the experience, except the literary impulse born
of the persistent effort to interest her in my correspondence and the consequent search for
material for letters in the details of college life and the nature around us; and the habit
of noticing and memorizing what might be of interest to others in the most trivial incidents
of life never quite left me. I became a profuse letter-writer from inclination, and, though
all the letters of that part of my life and for years after were recalled and burnt scrupulously,
I am convinced that what literary ability I possess is in a great degree owing to the impulse
I received in that romantic attachment.

What was, perhaps, more important, was that the vicarious offering of myself, made in my morbid
enthusiasm, and the commonplace result of it, hastened the end of that phase of my religious
experience. It was only because my boyhood had been frozen up in those seven years of apathy
and began to thaw out in later years, when manhood should have been taking the reins, that
all that passage of childhood and unsophisticated devotion intruded in the wrong place, to
fill up the void in the formation. My religious status, as well as my conception of life, were
only advanced to where they should have been at an earlier period.

Atheism was at that time beginning to work strongly among the students, and in opposition to
it there began an antagonistic evangelical movement, with prayer-meetings amongst those religiously
inclined. In my class, at this time, were several who became in after life eminent in clerical
activity, and amongst them were the brothers Nevius, distinguished in the missionary service
in the far East. I had no liking for the prayer-meetings of the students, but I joined the
movement for holding religious services in the city almshouse, a primitive institution which
had no chaplain, and where were sent not only the incurably poor and the incurably sick, but
the idiots and half-witted, as well as the temporarily incapacitated poor, who would have been,
in a better and more complete social organization, sent to a hospital, which did not exist
in Schenectady. With several other students and two or three young ladies of the city we held
services at the "poorhouse" every Sunday. Short exhortations with prayers and the singing of
hymns composed the service, and I remember that one day, in giving out a hymn in long metre,
I started it to a short metre tune, and had to go through it alone, the ladies whose business
was the musical part of the service not being able to accommodate their measure to my leading.
I made my solo as short as possible, and finished with the ill-suppressed giggling of the girls,
but my audience of poor cripples and weak-minded were equally impressed.

No doubt the struggles with Festus and my atheistic friend, and the partial influence of the
ambient, the sincere piety of the old doctor, which dominated the life of the college, helped
to strengthen the reaffirmation of my orthodox Christianity, and, for several years after,
I had no more question of the divine authority of the tenets of our church, including the Seventh
Day Sabbath, than I had of the laws of nature; but the truly spiritual character of my mother's
religion saved me from becoming a bigot. If I had been trained in the dogmas of Christianity,
I have no doubt I should have then become an atheist. Nor was I a prig. I must confess that
I enjoyed the occasional larks in which my classmates sometimes led and sometimes followed
me, as well as any of them. Our Greek professor, Doctor R., was a bit of a snob, and the plebeians
of the class, much the largest part, always held him in ill will; and as his garden bordered
on our section, and his fowls roosted in the trees overhanging the green, we one day decided
to mulct him in a supper. That night a party of the students of the section scaled the fence
(I well remember tearing my trousers in climbing it) and wrung the necks of four of his fowls,
which we sent into town next morning to be roasted, and which, accompanied by sundry mince-pies
and a huge bowl of eggnog, made us a luxurious supper next midnight, the fragments being carefully--bones
and bits of pie-crusts included--deposited at the professor's front door before daylight of
next day, which happened to be Sunday. The package, carefully made up and directed like an
express parcel, was addressed to him in all the fullness of formality, but it had rained in
the interval, and when in the morning the servant took it up, on opening the door, the wet
paper broke and the remnants of the feast bestrewed the doorway. The boy afterwards told me
that the profanity of the professor was terrible to hear, and as he cut me two in my report
of the Greek that term, I always suspected that he comprised me in the execration. As it happened
the cut was undeserved, for there were few men in the class who did their Greek better than
I, and the cut cost me the Phi Beta Kappa, which went to all the class whose aggregate marks
made an average per term of 98½, mine being 98¼. But as he always held me in disrespect on
account of my father's occupation, and as assiduously paid court and gave good reports to the
sons of wealthy men, there was a mutual aversion. He gave max. that term to the son of a famous
quack doctor, who always came to me to be crammed for the recitation, while I got 98. Naturally
we had little respect for the marking.

Of my college course, I retained only what held my sympathies. I never went in for honors,
or occupied myself beyond the required measure with studies which did not per se interest me.
Greek and Latin, but especially physics, the humanities, and literature enlisted all my ambitions,
and the little weekly paper which was read at the meetings of our secret society occupied me
more than was in due measure perhaps. I took my degree of course, but not with distinction.
The majority of the family having, prior to my graduation, gathered at or near New York city,
my father and mother, having attained their object in remaining in Schenectady, moved to New
York, and I, finally liberated for the study of art, gave myself seriously to that end.

CHAPTER V

ART STUDY IN AMERICA

During the time of my preparation for entry to college, a wandering artist had happened to
find his way to Schenectady, one of the restless victims of his temperament, to whose unrest
fate had given other motives for change than his occupation. He was an Englishman by the name
of John Wilson, a pupil of the brothers Alfred and Edward Chalons, fashionable London miniature
painters of the early part of the century. In years long gone by he had established himself
at St. Petersburg as a portrait painter, but, losing his wife and two children by a flood of
the Neva, which occurred during his momentary absence in England, he abandoned Russia and went
to one of the Western States of America and gave himself up to agriculture. Here fate found
him again, and, after losing another wife and other children, he became a wanderer, interested
in everything new and strange. He had been taken by Pitman's then new phonography, and his
chief occupation at that time was teaching it wherever at any school he could form a class.
He came to Union College, to this end, and had been recommended to my mother for board and
lodging, and she gladly availed herself of the opportunity to get for me lessons in drawing
in return for his board. He was a constitutional reformer, a radical as radicalism was then
possible, had become an atheist with Robert Dale Owen, indignant at the treatment accorded
him by destiny, and was au fond an honest and philanthropic man. He taught me the simplest
rudiments of portrait and landscape in water-color, and of perspective, of which he was master,
and, as he failed to find a field for his phonographic mission, I got up a small class in drawing
for him, and after our dozen lessons he went his way to new regions and I never heard from
him again. What he taught me I soon lost, except the perspective.

A little later, and while at work in my father's shop, there came in for a piece of ironwork
our local artist, a man of curious artistic faculties, a shoemaker by trade, who had taught
himself painting and had made himself a certain position as the portrait painter of the region.
He desired to make for himself a lay-figure, and for the articulations had conceived a new
form of universal joint, which he desired my father to put into shape. My father refused the
job, as out of the line of his work, and I volunteered to take it, stipulating for some instruction
in painting in return. The joint did not answer when worked out, but the friendship between
Sexton and myself lasted through his life, and a truer example of the artistic nature never
came under my study. All that he knew of painting he got from books, save for an annual visit
to the exhibition of the American Academy at New York, but his conception of the nature of
art was very lofty and correct, and had his education been in keeping with his natural gifts,
he would have taken a high position as a painter. His was one of the most pathetic lives I
can recall--a fine sensitive nature, full of the enthusiasms of the outer world, with rare
gifts in the embryonic state and mental powers far above the average, limited in every direction,
in facilities, in education in art and in letters, and having his lot cast in a community where,
except the wife of President Nott, there was not a single person who was capable of giving
him sympathy or artistic appreciation. Not least in the pathos of his situation was the simplicity
and humility with which he accepted himself, with his whole nature yearning towards an ideal
which he knew to be as unattainable as the stars, without impatience or bitterness towards
men or fate. If he was not content with what was given him, no one could see it, and he was
so filled with the happiness that nature and his limited art gave him that he had no room for
discontent at the limitations.

Happy days were those in which my leisure gave me the opportunity to share this man's walks
and make my crude sketches of his favorite nooks and bends of our beautiful river Mohawk, and
listen to his experiences while he worked. I can see now that it was more nature than art that
evoked my enthusiasms, and that in art I felt mainly the expression of the love of the beauty
of nature. Sexton gave me some idea of the use of oils, and from that time most of my leisure
hours and my vacant days were given to painting in an otherwise untaught manner, copying such
pictures as I could borrow, or translating engravings into color--wretched things most certainly,
but to me then, with my crude enthusiasm, productive of greater pleasure than the better productions
of later years.

The three years of my college course had left me little room or leisure for such studies, and
at the end of them I realized that so far as the object I had set before me was concerned,
I had wasted the years and blunted the edge of my enthusiasms. In preparation for the career
which I proposed to myself I had, however, been in correspondence with Thomas Cole, then the
leading painter of landscape in America, and an artist to this day unrivaled in certain poetic
and imaginative gifts by any American painter. He was a curious result of the influence of
the old masters on a strongly individual English mind, inclined to nature worship, born in
England in the epoch of the poetic English school to which Girtin, Turner, and their colleagues
belonged, and migrating to America in boyhood, early enough to become impressed by the influence
of primitive nature as a subject of art. Self-taught in technique and isolated in his development,
he became inevitably devoted to the element of subject rather than to technical attainment,
and in the purely literary quality of art he has perhaps been surpassed by no landscape painter
of any time. His indifference to technical qualities has left him in neglect at present, but
in the influence he had on American art, and for his part in the history of it, he remains
an important individuality now much underrated. It was settled that I should become his pupil
in the winter following my graduation, but a few months before that he died.

At that moment there was not in the United States a single school of art, and except Cole,
who had one or two pupils when he died, there was no competent landscape painter who accepted
pupils, nor perhaps one who was capable of teaching. Drawing masters there were here and there,
mostly in the conventional style adapted to the seminaries for young ladies. Inman, the leading
portrait painter of the day, had taken pupils, but his powers did not extend to the treatment
of landscape, and my sympathies did not go beyond it. I applied to A.B. Durand, then the president
of our Academy, the only rival of Cole, though in a purely naturalistic vein, and a painter
of real power in a manner quite his own, which borrowed, however, more from the Dutch than
from the Italian feeling, to which Cole inclined. Durand was originally an engraver of the
first order, and afterwards a portrait painter, but his careful painting from nature and a
sunny serenity in his rendering of her marked him, even in the absence of imaginative feeling,
as a specialist in landscape, to which he later gave himself entirely. His was a serene and
beautiful nature, perfectly reflected in his art, and he first showed American artists what
could be done by faithful and unaffected direct study of nature in large studies carefully
finished on the spot, though never carried to the elaboration of later and younger painters.
But he was so restrained by an excess of humility as to his own work, and so justly diffident
of his knowledge of technique, that he could not bring himself to accept a pupil, and I finally
applied to F.E. Church, a young painter, pupil of Cole, and for many years after the leading
landscape painter of the country. He was then in his first success, and I was his first pupil.

Church in many respects was the most remarkable painter of the phenomena of nature I have ever
known, and had he been trained in a school of wider scope, he might have taken a place amongst
the great individualities of his art. But he had little imagination, and his technical training
had not emancipated him from an exaggerated insistence on detail, which so completely controlled
his treatment of his subject that breadth and repose were entirely lost sight of. A graceful
composition, and most happy command of all the actual effects of the landscape which he had
seen, were his highest qualities; his retention of the minutest details of the generic or specific
characteristics of tree, rock, or cloud was unsurpassed by the work of any landscape painter
whose work I know, and everything he knew he rendered with a rapidity and precision which were
simply inconceivable by one who had not seen him at work. I think that his vision and retention
of even the most transitory facts of nature passing before him must have been at the maximum
of which the human mind is capable, but he had no comprehension of the higher and broader qualities
of art. His mind seemed a camera obscura in which everything that passed before it was recorded
permanently, but he added in the rendering of its record nothing which sprang from human emotion,
or which involved that remoulding of the perception that makes it conception, and individual.
The primrose on the river's brim he saw with a vision as clear as that of a photographic lens,
but it remained to him a primrose and nothing more to the end. All that he did or could do
was the recording, form and color, of what had flitted past his eyes, with unsurpassed fidelity
of memory; but it left one as cold as the painting of an iceberg. His recognition of art as
distinguished from nature was far too rudimentary to fit him for a teacher, for his love of
facts and detail blinded him to every other aspect of our relations with nature, in the recognition
of which consist the highest gifts of the artist.

My study with Church lasted one winter, and showed me that nothing was to be hoped for from
him, and that the most intimate superficial acquaintance with nature did not involve the perception
of her more intimate relation with art. I learned from him nothing that was worth remembering,
but I made acquaintance with a young portrait painter, who had a studio in the same building,
an Irishman named Boyle, a pupil of Inman, whose ideas of art were of a far higher order, and
to my intercourse with him during that winter and the following summer, which we spent together
sketching in the valley of the Mohawk, I owe the first clear ideas of what lay before me in
artist life. At Church's studio I met Edgar A. Poe, a slender, nervous, vivacious, and extremely
refined personage. But at that juncture I came across "Modern Painters," and, like many others,
wiser or otherwise, I received from it a stimulus to nature worship, to which I was already
too much inclined, which made ineffaceable the confusion in my mind between nature and art.
Another acquaintance I made that winter was of great importance in developing my technical
abilities--that of a well-known amateur of New York, afterwards a professional artist, Dr.
Edward Ruggles, a physician whose love of painting finally drove him out of medicine. He had
the most catholic and correct taste I had then met, and he introduced me to William Page, the
most remarkable portrait painter in many respects America has ever produced, whose talks on
art used to make me sleepless with enthusiasm. Page was the most brilliant talker I ever met,
and a dear friend of Lowell.

Returning to Schenectady the following summer, I made my first direct and thorough studies
from nature, and amongst these was one, a view from my window across gardens and a churchyard
with the church spire in the distance; a small study which incidentally had a most potent effect
on all my later life. It was bought in the autumn by the Art Union of New York, and on the
proceeds, thirty dollars, the first considerable sum of money I had ever earned, I decided
to go to Europe and see what the English painters were doing. Of English art I then knew only
directly the pictures of Doughty, an early artistic immigrant from England, and, as afterwards
appeared to me, a fair example of the school which had its lead from Constable, to whom he
had, however, no resemblance except in choice of motive. He had a comprehension of technique
possessed by none of our home painters--a rapid and masterly execution with a scale of color
limited to cool grays, but, within this gamut, of exquisite refinement. Constant repetitions
of the same motive wore out his welcome on the part of the American public, but his pictures
had a charm which was long in losing its power over me, and had an influence in determining
me to go to England at the first opportunity. But to see Turner's pictures was always the chief
motive, and was the one which decided me to go.

I was, in knowledge of worldly life, scarcely less a child then than I had been when, at the
age of ten, I determined to go out into the world and make my own career, free from the obstacles
I imagined to be preventing me from following my ideals. The ever-present feeling developed
in me by the religious training of my mother, that an overruling Providence had my life in
keeping, made me quite oblivious of or indifferent to the chances of disaster, for the assurance
of protection and leading to the best end left no place for anxieties. It was a mental phenomenon
which I now look back on with a wonder which I think most sane people will share, that, at
the age when most boys have become men, for I graduated at twenty, I should have been capable
of going out into a strange world like one of the children of the Children's Crusade, with
an unfaltering faith that I should be led and cared for by Providence as I had been by my parents.
I had no apprehension, from the moment that one of the ship-owners who was in business relations
with my elder brother offered me a free passage on one of his sailing ships to Liverpool, that
I should not find a similar bridge back again; and with my thirty dollars changed into six
sovereigns, and a little valise with only a change of clothes, I went on board the Garrick,
a packet of the Black Ball line, sailing in the last days of December, 1849. There had been
a thaw and the Hudson River was full of floating ice, which in the ebbing of the tide endangered
the shipping lying out in the stream, and the captain made such haste to get out of the danger
(the extent of which was shown by the topmasts of an Austrian brig, showing above water where
she had been sunk by the floating ice) that the ship had her anchor apeak before the boat which
carried my brother and myself out could reach it. We barely arrived in time for me to get aboard,
the difficulty of threading our way amongst the masses of ice making our boating difficult.
That my childish faith in Providence was a family trait might be deduced from the fact that
my brother, who had from boyhood stood to me in loco parentis, had not asked me, until I was
on the point of going aboard, what my means of subsistence were, and, when he found that I
had only my six sovereigns, he told me to wait at Liverpool for a letter of credit he would
send me by the steamer which followed.

That voyage is one of the most delightful memories of my life. I loved the sea; and every phase
of it, storm or calm, was a new joy. I had one fellow-passenger, a German doctor of philosophy,
Dr. Seemann, who had been an ardent radical in Germany, and had been studying in the United
States the development of political intelligence under democratic conditions, returning to
his native land with the profound conviction that democratic government was destined to be
a failure. We had hot debates on the subject, in which the doctor adduced his conversations
with the intelligent farmers of New England, whom he had especially studied, to show that their
political education was such as to endanger the best interests of the community from its extreme
superficiality; I, with an unfaltering faith in the processes of universal suffrage, disputed
his conclusions, so hotly in fact that we quarreled and he took one side of the quarter-deck
for his promenades and I the other. But the conditions of sea life, with a companionship limited
to two persons, are such that no quarrel that was not mortal, or from rivalry in the affections
of a woman, could endure many days, and after a few such days we drew to the same side of the
deck and were better friends than before, but we dropped politics.

This was in January of 1850, and I am driven to curiosity as to the subsequent career of the
young German savant, who in that state of American political evolution was capable of drawing
the horoscope of a nation, as it has been in recent times fulfilled; who saw in the crude notions
of political economy of that prosperous yesterday the germs of the political blunders and errors
of to-day. I drew his portrait, I made a few studies of sea and sky, but for the most part
the sensation of simple existence under the conditions of illimitable freedom in space, with
no reminder of anything beyond, was sufficient for me. I used to lie on my back on the roof
of the wheel-house and look into the sky, and try to make friends with the sea-gulls which
sailed around over me, curiously peering down with their dove-like eyes as if to see what this
thing might be. Then the nights, so luminous with the "breeming" of the sea as we got into
the Gulf Stream, and the flitting and sudden population of the ocean, always bringing us surprises;
the more exciting and delightful storms which came on us in the region in which they were always
to be expected, and which, though we had some that made lying in one's berth difficult, were
never enough to satisfy my desire for rough weather,--all these things filled my life so full
of the pure delight in nature that when, at the end of nearly three weeks at sea, we came in
sight of the Irish coast, I hated the land. Life was enough under the sea conditions, and the
prospect of the return to the limitations of living amongst men was absolute pain.

We made Liverpool in twenty-one days from New York, and the steamer which had left that port
the next week did not arrive till three or four days after, so that my waiting for the letter
of credit involved a hotel bill which nearly exhausted my money in hand. The kindly captain,
knowing my circumstances, made the hotel keeper throw off fifty per cent. of his bill (for
I went to the "captain's hotel"), and thus I succeeded in getting to London with the money
which was to have paid my expenses for six weeks (according to the careful calculations I had
made, at the rate of a pound a week) reduced to provision for three, after which Providence
was expected to provide me with a passage home. In these weeks I had planned to see Turner's
pictures, Copley Fielding's, with Creswick's, and all the others Ruskin had mentioned. But
the railways and hotels had never come into my arithmetic, and that was always, and remains,
my weak point. However, the letter of credit was for fifty pounds, and so I felt justified
in my faith in Providence, my brother going to the general credit of that account.

CHAPTER VI

ART STUDY IN ENGLAND

Arrived at Euston Station in the small hours of the morning, I bought a penny loaf and walked
the streets eating it and carrying my valise until the day was sufficiently advanced for me
to go to present a letter of introduction given me by G.P. Putnam, the publisher, to his agent
in England, Mr. Delf, who at once took me to a lodging-house in Bouverie Street, in which I
got a room for six shillings a week, service included, and an honest, kindly landlady to whom
I still feel indebted for the affectionate interest she took in me. I had letters to Mr. S.C.
Hall, editor of the "Art Journal," and the Rev. William Black, pastor of the little Seventh
Day Baptist Church at Millyard in Goodmansfields, Leman Street, a very ancient and well-endowed
foundation, made by some Sabbatarian of centuries ago, with a parsonage and provision for two
sermons every Saturday; and under Mr. Black's preaching I sat all the time I was in London.
He was a man of archaeological tastes whose researches had led him to the conviction that the
Seventh Day was the true Christian Sabbath, and to fellowship with the congregation of Millyard.
I was admitted to honorary membership in the church, and the listening to the two dry-as-dust
sermons was compensated for by the cordial friendship of the pastor, an invitation to dinner
every Saturday, and the motherly interest of his wife and daughters. My childhood's faith and
my mother's creed still hung so closely to me that the observances of our ancient church were
to me sacred, and the Sabbath day at Millyard still held me to the simple ways of home. In
that secluded nook, out of all the rush and noise of London, we lived as we might have lived
in an English village; it was an impasse, and one who entered from the narrow and squalid alleys
which led to it was surprised to find the little square of the old and disused graveyard, with
its huge hawthorn trees and its inclosure of the parsonage appendages, as peaceful and as far
from the world as if it had been in distant Devon.

My letter to Mr. Hall led to introductions to Leslie, Harding, Creswick, and several minor
painters, all of whom found me attentive to the lessons they gave me on their own excellences
and led me no farther, but it also brought me into contact with a painter of a higher and more
serious order, J.B. Pyne, one of the few thinkers and impartial critics I found amongst the
English painters. Every Sunday I went out to Pyne's house in Fulham, walking the six or seven
miles in the morning and spending the day there. Kitchen-gardens and green fields then lay
between Kensington and Fulham where are now the museums, and there the larks sang and the hawthorn
bloomed. After an early dinner we passed the afternoon in talk on art and artists. Pyne was
one of the best talkers on art I ever knew, and a critic of very great lucidity; his art had
great qualities and as great defects, but in comparison with some of the favorites of the public
of that day he was a giant, and in certain technical qualities he had no equal in his generation
except Turner. He had the dangerous tendency, for an artist, of putting everything he did under
the protection and direction of a theory--a course which invariably checks the fertility of
technical resource, and which in his case had the unfortunate effect of causing him to be regarded
as a mere theorist, whose work was done by line and rule. But I had good reason to know that
Turner thought more highly of him than the English public, and I am convinced that as time
goes on and his pictures acquire the mellowness of tone for which he carefully calculated in
his method and choice of material, he will be more highly esteemed than in his own time, and
that the careful and systematic technique which characterized his work, and which is so opposed
to the random and hypothetically inspired methods that are the admiration of a half-educated
public, will find its true appreciation in the future.

Of all the English artists of that day with whom I became acquainted, Pyne impressed me as
by a considerable measure the broadest thinker, and, except Turner in his water-color, the
ablest landscape painter; old John Linnell in this respect standing nearest him in technical
power, with a more complete devotion to nature and her sentiment. In Harding's work I took
no interest; his conventions and tricks of the brush repelled me, and generally his work left
me cold and discouraged, for this is the effect of wasted cleverness, that it disheartens a
man who, knowing that his abilities are less, finds the achievement of cleverer men so poor
in what satisfies the artist of feeling. In it I saw an exaggeration of Pyne's defects and
the caricature of his good qualities. Creswick had a better feeling for nature, but convention
in his methods gave place to trick, and I remember his showing me the way in which he produced
detail in a pebbly brookside, by making the surface of his canvas tacky and then dragging over
it a brush loaded with pigment which caught only on the prominences, and did in a moment the
work of an hour of faithful painting.

A painter who taught me more than any other at that time was Edward Wehnert, mainly known then
as an illustrator, and hardly remembered now even in that capacity. Attracted by one of his
water-colors, I went to him for lessons, which he declined to give, while really giving me
instructions informally and in the most kindly and generous way, during the entire stay I made
in London. Among all the artists I have known, Wehnert's life was, with the exception of Sexton's,
the most pathetic. His native abilities were of a very high order, and his education far above
that which the British artist of that day possessed. He was a pupil of Paul Delaroche, and
the German blood he had from his father gave him an imaginative element which the Englishman
in him liberated entirely from the German prescriptive limitations, while there was just enough
of the German poet in him to give his design a sentiment which was entirely lacking in the
English figure painting of that day. He painted in both oil and water-color, with a facility
of design I have never known surpassed, making at a single sitting, and without a model, a
drawing with many figures. He was at the moment I knew him engaged in illustrating Grimm's
stories, for a paltry compensation, but, as it seemed to me, in a spirit the most completely
concordant with the stories of all the illustrations I have ever seen of that folk-lore.

Wehnert had several sisters, who had been accustomed to a certain ease in life, and to maintain
this all his efforts and those of a bachelor brother were devoted, to the sacrifice of his
legitimate ambitions; he was overworked with the veriest hack-work of his profession, and I
never knew him but as a jaded man. He was a graduate of Göttingen, widely read and well taught
in all that related to his art as well as in literature, and I used to sit much with him while
he worked, and most of my evenings were passed in the family. The sisters were women who had
been of the world, clever, accomplished, and with a restricted and most interesting circle
of friends; but over the whole family there rested an air of tragic gravity, as if of some
past which could never be spoken of and into which I never felt inclined to inquire. Among
the memories of my first stay in London the Wehnerts awaken the tenderest, for through many
years they proved the dearest and kindest of friends. And the hospitality of London, wherever
I found access to it, was unmeasured--the kindly feeling which showed itself to a young and
unknown student without recommendation or achievement made on me an indelible impression. I
now and then found people who asked me where I had learned to speak English, or if all the
people in the section from which I came were as white as I was; but except in a single case,
that of a lady who proposed to make me responsible for slavery in the United States, I never
found anything but friendship and courtesy, and generally the friendliness took the form of
active interest.

Most of my time was passed in hunting up pictures by Turner, and of course I made the early
acquaintance of Griffiths, a dealer in pictures, who was Turner's special agent, and at whose
gallery were to be seen such of his pictures as he wished to sell,--for no inducement could
be offered which would make him dispose of some of them. Griffiths told me that in his presence
an American collector, James Lenox, of New York, after offering Turner £5000, which was refused,
for the Old "Téméraire," offered him a blank check, which was also rejected. Griffiths's place
became one of my most common resorts, for Griffiths was less a picture dealer than a passionate
admirer of Turner, and seemed to have drifted into his business through his love for the artist's
pictures; and to share in his admiration for Turner was to gain his cordial friendship.

Here I first saw Ruskin and was introduced to him. I was looking at some little early drawings
of Turner, when a gentleman entered the gallery, and, after a conversation between them, Griffiths
came to me and asked if I should not like to be presented to the author of "Modern Painters,"
to which I naturally replied in the affirmative. I could hardly believe my eyes, expecting
to find in him something of the fire, enthusiasm, and dogmatism of his book, and seeing only
a gentleman of the most gentle type, blonde, refined, and with as little self-assertion or
dogmatic tone as was possible consistently with the holding of his own opinions; suggesting
views rather than asserting them, and as if he had not himself come to a conclusion on the
subject of conversation. A delightful and to me instructive conversation ended in an invitation
to visit his father's collection of drawings and pictures at Denmark Hill, and later to spend
the evening at his own house in Grosvenor Street. After the lapse of forty-eight years, it
is difficult to distinguish between the incidents which took place in this first visit to England
in 1850 and those belonging to another a little later, but my impression is very strong that
it was during the former that I spent the evening at the Grosvenor Street residence, at which
I met several artists of Ruskin's intimacy, and amongst them G.F. Watts. I then saw Mrs. Ruskin,
and I have a very vivid impression of her personal beauty. I remember saying to a friend, to
whom I spoke of the visit just after, that she was the most beautiful woman I had seen in England.
As I approached the house there was a bagpiper playing near it, and the pipes entered into
the conversation in the drawing-room. On my making some very disparaging opinion of their music,
which I heard for the first time, Mrs. Ruskin flamed up with indignation, but, after an annihilating
look, she said mildly, "I suppose no Southerner can understand the pipes," and we discussed
them calmly, she telling some stories to illustrate their power and the special range of their
effect.

At that time Ruskin held very strong Calvinistic notions, and as I kept my Puritanism unshaken
we had as many conversations on religion as on art, the two being then to me almost identical
and to him closely related. I remember his saying once, in speaking of the doctrine of foreordination
(to me a dreadful bugbear), as I was drinking a glass of sherry, that he "believed that it
had been ordained from all eternity whether I should set that glass down empty or without finishing
the wine." This was to me the most perplexing problem of all that Ruskin put before me, for
it was the first time that the doctrine of Calvin had come before me in a concrete form. Another
incident gave me a serious perplexity as to the accuracy of Ruskin's perceptions of nature.
Leslie had given me a card to see Mr. Holford's collection of pictures, in which was one of
Turner's, the balcony scene in Venice, called, I think, "Juliet and her Nurse." It was a moonlight,
with the most wonderful rendering of a certain effect seen with the moon at the spectator's
back, and I noted in speaking to Ruskin, later on, that no other picture I had ever seen of
moonlight had succeeded so fully in realizing it, to which he replied that he had never noticed
that it was a moonlight picture; but when I called his attention to the display of fireworks
on the Grand Canal, he admitted that it was not customary to let off fireworks by day, and
that it must be a night scene.

My acquaintance with Ruskin lasted with varying degrees of intimacy, and some interruptions
due to his sympathy with the South during the civil war and bitterness against our government,
till 1870, when it was terminated by a trivial personal incident to which his morbid state
of mind at that time gave a false color. We separated more and more widely in our opinions
on art in later years, and the differences came to me reluctantly, for my reverence for the
man was never to be shaken, while my study of art showed me finally that, however correct his
views of the ethics of art might be, from the point of view of pure art he was entirely mistaken,
and all that his influence had done for me had to be undone before any true progress could
be made. What little I had learned from the artists I knew had been in the main correct, and
had aided to show me the true road, but the teaching of "Modern Painters," and of Ruskin himself
later, was in the end fatal to the career to which I was then devoted, for I was unable to
get back to the dividing of the ways.

But the first mistake was my own. What I needed was practical study, the training of the hand,
for my head had already gone so far beyond my technical attainment that I had entered into
the fatal condition of having theories beyond my practice. My execution was so far in arrear
of my perceptions of what should be in the result, that instead of the delight with which I
had, untaught, and in my stolen hours, given myself to painting, I felt the weight of my technical
shortcomings so heavily as to make my work full of distress instead of that content with which
the artist should always work. Everything became conscious effort and the going was too much
uphill. I had always been groping my own way, scarcely as much assisted by the fragmentary
good advice I received as laid under heavier disabilities by the better knowledge of what should
be done. In art education the training of the hand should, I am persuaded, always be kept in
advance of the thinking powers, so that the young student should feel that his ideal is just
before him if not at his finger's end. That this is so rarely the case with art students in
our day is, I am convinced, the chief reason of the technical inferiority of our modern painters
and the root of the inferiority of modern art. The artist does not begin early enough. I was
already belated, and every advance I made in the study of the theory of art put me farther
behind, practically.

The hope of getting much technical instruction from competent masters in England was speedily
dispelled. Lessons in water-color I could get at a guinea an hour, and to enter as a pupil
with one of the better painters was impossible. Pyne received from his pupils £100 a month.
I had calculated how far I could mate my fifty pounds go and put it at six months. By the advice
of Wehnert, I applied to Charles Davidson, a member of the New Water-Color Society, for instruction,
and went down into Surrey, where he lived, to be able to follow him in his work from nature.
He lived at Red Hill, and in the immediate vicinity John Linnell had built his then new home.
In the few weeks I lived there I saw a great deal of the old man, one of the most remarkable
examples of the old English type I have ever known, and to me as interesting a problem from
the religious point of view as from the artistic. Barring differences of the creed, of which
I knew and cared nothing (for my own religious horizon had always included all "good-willing
men," and I had no conception of the distinctions of creed which would send on one side of
the line of safety an Established Churchman and on the other a Nonconformist), we agreed very
well, and in the general impression I set Linnell down as a devout Christian of the Cromwellian
type, and he certainly was a man of remarkable intellectual powers, both in art and in theology.
His Christianity might have taken a form of less domestic sternness, but I remembered my own
father too well to find it inconsistent with genuine piety, though not even my mother ever
inspired the awe Linnell and his religious severity excited in me.

Linnell's landscape seemed to me the full expression of a healthy love of nature, possible
only to a moral sanity in the man--a cheery Wordsworthian enjoyment of her, which as a rule
I have never found in perfection out of the English school and its derivatives; the outpouring
of a robust nature which prefers to see the outer world with the spectacles of no school, and
through the memory of no other man; not self-taught in the sense of owing nothing to another
mind, but in the sense that what he had learned he had digested and forgotten except as a chance
word in the universal gospel of art; technically weak, slovenly in style, but eminently successful
in telling the story he had to tell. Even then, with my limited knowledge of painting, he seemed
to me to furnish the antithesis to Pyne,--one too careful of style and running to excessive
precision, the other too negligent and running into indecision; and this judgment still holds.
Of Davidson, my immediate teacher, there was only to be got certain ways of doing certain things,
limited to the elements of landscape; how to wash in the sky, to treat foliage in masses, and
those tricks of the brush in which the English water-color school abounds; but no larger views,
or more individual, of art itself. What he taught was, perhaps, what I most needed to learn,
but I was already too far on the way to learn it easily.

I made a visit of ten days to Paris and saw with great profit the work of the landscape painters
and of Delacroix, the other figure painters in general not interesting me much. I carried a
letter of introduction from the Wehnerts to Mademoiselle Didot, the daughter of Firmin Didot,
the famous publisher, then an old blind man, but one of the most interesting Frenchmen I ever
knew, as Mademoiselle Didot was the most brilliant Frenchwoman. The old man was much interested
in what I had to say of America, and he paid us the national compliment of saying that we spoke
English more intelligibly than Englishmen in general. As I spoke no French, our conversation
was in English, and he understood me perfectly, though he said he rarely could follow without
difficulty the conversation of an Englishman, while Americans in general he understood readily.
To accomplish all that I did with my fifty pounds it may be easily understood that I had to
cut my corners close, and in fact they were so closely cut in my Continental excursion that
I landed at Newhaven on my return with one shilling in my pocket, and when, at the end of my
stay in England, I took the train for Liverpool, I had only sixpence (my passage being provided
for), and my good friend Delf, who saw me off, on finding the state of my purse, insisted at
the railway station on my taking a sovereign for contingencies.

This habit of making no provision for accidents had been a part of my moral training, the faith
in the overruling Providence never forsaking me for an instant, so that, whatever I set about
to do, I made no provision for accidents. To go ahead and do what I thought I ought to do,
and let the consequences take care of themselves, has been the habit of mind in which I have
always worked and probably still work. If the thing to be done was right, I never thought of
what might come after, or even whether I had the means to carry a resolution into effect, taking
it for granted that the means would be provided because the thing was to be done. I retain
the distinct recollection of an expression of my mother while I was making preparations for
this first voyage to Europe, and she was packing my clothes for the voyage and her lips were
silently moving and the slow tears running down her cheeks. She said in her low and murmuring
voice as if in comment on her prayer, "Oh! no, he is too pure-hearted," and I knew that the
prayer was for my protection from the temptations of that world of which she only knew the
terrors and dangers from her Bible, and that she was so wrapt in her spiritual yearnings that
she had quite forgotten my presence. Poor mother! I never deserved the great trust she had
in me, but the memory of that moment has served me in many devious moments to keep me in the
path. But if I had no such virtues as those which she attributed to me, I had what was perhaps
more potent, the intuitions which I inherited from her, and such as often take a man out of
temptation before he is aware of its strength, and before it becomes a real danger; nor can
any man remember such confidence on the part of his mother without, from very shame, if no
sterner motive should exist, maintaining a higher tone of life.

I did not leave London without a sight of Turner himself, due to the friendly forethought of
Griffiths, who so appreciated my enthusiasm for the old man that he lost no opportunity to
satisfy it. Turner was taken ill while I was on this visit, with an attack of the malady which
later killed him, and I had begged Griffiths to ask him to let me come and nurse him. He declined
the offer, but was not, Griffiths told me, quite unmoved by it. One day, after his recovery,
I received a message from Griffiths to say that Turner was coming to the gallery at a certain
hour on a business appointment, and if I would happen in just before the time fixed for it
I might see him.

At the appointed hour Turner came and found me in an earnest study of the pictures in the farther
end of the gallery, where I remained, unnoticing and unnoticed, until a sign from Griffiths
called me up. He then introduced me as a young American artist who had a great admiration for
his work, and who, being about to return home, would be glad to take him by the hand. It was
difficult to reconcile my conception of the great artist with this little, and, to casual observation,
insignificant old man with a nose like an eagle's beak, though a second sight showed that his
eye, too, was like an eagle's, bright, restless, and penetrating. Half awed and half surprised,
I held out my hand. He put his behind him, regarding me with a humorous, malicious look, saying
nothing. Confused, and not a little mortified, I turned away, and, walking down the gallery,
went to studying the pictures again. When I looked his way again, a few minutes later, he held
out his hand to me, and we entered into a conversation which lasted until Griffiths gave me
a hint that Turner had business to transact which I must leave him to. He gave me a hearty
handshake, and in his oracular way said, "Hmph--(nod) if you come to England again--hmph (nod)--hmph
(nod)," and another hand-shake with more cordiality and a nod for good-by. I never saw a keener
eye than his, and the way that he held himself up, so straight that he seemed almost to lean
backwards, with his forehead thrown forward, and the piercing eyes looking out from under their
heavy brows, and his diminutive stature coupled with the imposing bearing, combined to make
a very peculiar and vivid impression on me. Griffiths afterwards translated his laconism for
me as an invitation to come to see him if I ever came back to England, and added that though
he was in the worst of tempers when he came in, and made him expect that I should be insulted,
he was in fact unusually cordial, and he had never seen him receive a stranger with such friendliness
except in the case of Cattermole, for whom he had a strong liking. In the conversation we had
during the interview, I alluded to our good fortune in having already in America one of the
pictures of his best period, a seacoast sunset in the possession of Mr. Lenox, and Turner exclaimed,
"I wish they were all put in a blunderbuss and shot off!" but he looked pleased at the simultaneous
outburst of protest on the part of Griffiths and myself. When I went back to England for another
visit he was dead.

I may frankly say as to Turner's art, that I enjoyed most the water-colors of the middle period,
though the latest gave me another kind of delight,--that of the reading of a fairy-story, of
the building of glorious castles in the air in my younger days, that of something to desire
and despair of. The drawings of the England and Wales series in the possession of Ruskin seemed
to my critical faculty the ne plus ultra of water-color painting,--especially the "Llanthony
Abbey," of which I recall those early impressions with the greatest distinctness[1]. I saw
in the Academy Exhibition the last pictures he ever exhibited, some whaling subjects, fresh
from his retouching of two days before, gorgeous dreams of color art, but only dreams--the
actuality had all gone out. I saw them years after when they had become mere wrecks, hardly
recognizable.

[Footnote 1: I saw it again in the Guildhall Exhibition of 1899.]

I saw also that year a picture by Rossetti and one by Millais, and the latter impressed me
very strongly; in fact it determined me in the manner in which I should follow art on my return
home. I did not and could not put it on the same plane as the "Llanthony Abbey," but the straight
thrust for the truth was evidently the shortest way to a certain excellence, and this of the
kind most akin to my own faculties, and I said to Delf, who was with me at the exhibition of
the Academy, that if ever English figure painting rose out of mediocrity it would be through
the work of the P.R.B. My impression is that the picture was the "Christ in the Carpenter's
Shop," but of this I cannot be sure, though I am certain that it was in the exhibition of 1850.
The Rossetti was in the old "National Society," and was either the "Childhood of the Virgin
Mary" or the "White Lady." Beautiful as it was, it did not impress me as did the temper of
Millais's work, the scrupulous conscientiousness of which chimed with my Puritan education.
I left England with a fermentation of art ideas in my brain, in which the influence of Turner
and Pyne, the teachings of Wehnert, and the work of the Pre-Raphaelites mingled with the influence
of Ruskin, and especially the preconception of art work derived from the descriptions, often
strangely misleading, of the "Modern Painters."

I received from my brother, as I had anticipated, the order for a passage on the Atlantic,
one of the Collins line of steamers, and one of my fellow-passengers was Jenny Lind, on her
way for her first visit to America under the guidance of Barnum. She gave a concert on board
for the benefit of the firemen and sailors, and to this the half of Delf's sovereign contributed,
the other half going for a bottle of Rhine wine, to return the compliment of my next neighbor
at the table, who had invited me to take a glass of wine one day. Thus, as usual, I landed
penniless from my venture, but fortunately found my brother on the wharf expecting the arrival
of the steamer, her trips having been made with such precision that the hour of arrival was
generally anticipated correctly. In those days the steamers were rarely driven, and a voyage
of fourteen days was not considered a bad one. A day's run of 336 knots was a triumph of steaming
and rarely attained. But we were at the beginning of the contest between the Collins and the
Cunard steamers, and up to that time the American line had generally a little the better of it.

The rest of that year and the year following were given to hard and monotonous painting from
nature while the weather permitted, and in the winter to working out clumsily the mysteries
of picture-making, a work which, as I was without direction or any correct appreciation of
what I had it in me to do, became a drudgery which I went through as an indispensable duty,
but with no satisfaction. My larger studies from nature (25x30 inches) had attracted attention
and had been hung on the line, getting for me the election to the Associateship of Design,
and the appellation of the "American Pre-Raphaelite,"--all which for a man so lately embarked
in the profession was considered a high honor, as it really was. But the success only confirmed
me in my incorrect views of art and carried me farther from the true path. As studies from
nature, the fidelity and completeness of them, even in comparison with Durand's, was something
which the conventional landscape known then and there had never approached, and to the respectable
amateurs of that day they were puzzles. In one of them, a study of a wood scene with a spring
of water overshadowed by a beech-tree, all painted at close quarters, I had transplanted a
violet which I wanted in the near foreground, so as to be sure that it was in correct light
and proportion. This was in the spirit of the Ruskinian doctrine, of which I made myself the
apostle. On that study I spent such hours of the day as the light served, for three months,
and then the coming of autumn stopped me. Any difficulty in literal rendering of a subject
was incomprehensible to me, and in fact in that kind of work there is little difference, for
it is but copying, and requires only a correct eye and infinite patience, both of which I had;
and it was a puzzle to me rather than a compliment when the veteran Durand said to me of one
of my studies, that it was a subject he would not have dared attack on account of the difficulty
of the effect of light, for to me it was simply a question of time and sticking to it. It was
not art, but the public did not know it any more than I did, and I was admitted to a place
which I believe was one of the highest amongst my contemporaries at home in a way that led
to little even in its complete success. I influenced some of my contemporaries and gave a jog
to the landscape painting of the day, and there it ended, through a diversion of my ambition
to another sphere, but there it must have ended; even if I had never been so diverted.

CHAPTER VII

ON A MISSION FOR KOSSUTH

The arrival, in December, 1851, of Kossuth, the Hungarian patriot, on his mission for the redemption
of Hungary, set all America in a flame of shallow enthusiasm, and I went to hear his appeals.
What he asked for was money to arm his country, to renew the struggle with the House of Hapsburg.
His eloquence carried away all deliberation in the Northern States, and even shook the government
at Washington; but, in the end, the only practical result was his gain of the dollars which
the hearers paid to hear him speak, and which no one regretted who heard him, for such oratory
no one in the country ever had heard, even from men to whom the English language was native.
Before making his discourse in any town, he took the pains to find out something of the local
history, and thus touched the patriotism of his audience in the parish bounds, and the past
glories of America were revived in terms of a new and strange flattery. We were like the Athenians
after hearing the Philippics of Demosthenes,--all ready to march against the Austrian. Before
he left New York I had volunteered to fight or conspire, or take any part in the struggle which
might fall to me. I kept my counsel from my family, and when Kossuth went on his westward tour
it was settled that, on or after his return to Europe, I was to follow.

His tour of the Northern States was a triumph that caused him to entertain hopes which a man
of more sobriety and common-sense would not have conceived. Against the indifference to liberty
and the selfishness of the slave States, his flood of eloquence broke in vain. He knew that
the North contained most of the capital and energy of America, and he supposed that they ruled,
and was late in learning that the South ruled us. At Washington he came into contact with the
statesmanship and the demagogy of the republic, and, while the former gave him a magnificent
reception, the latter quietly and undemonstratively quenched his hopes. The South had no sympathy
with Hungarian or any other liberty, and we felt the chill fall on Kossuth and his eloquence.
But, for the politicians, there was something to be made out of him and the naturalized voters,
mainly republicans and refugees from the various revolutions which had failed in Europe; so
he was not denied the expectation of some private assistance, though the hope that the United
States should openly declare Hungary a belligerent, and thus give its moral weight to Kossuth,
the recognized governor, was soon seen to be an idle and fallacious one. "Something might be
done," said the politicians. So Kossuth waited.

A presidential election was near, and negotiations were initiated between Kossuth and the party
leaders for his influence on the foreign vote, and, pending these, he could decide nothing
as to his future movements. I was in the habit of going to see him at night, and sometimes
waited for the departure of the committees of the politicians who were in discussion with him.
One night, when I went in, I found him in a state of nauseated irritation, and he broke out,
saying, "Mr. Stillman, if your country does not get rid of these politicians it will be ruined
in fifty years." He had just received a Democratic committee, which had formally promised him,
in return for the influence he might exert in favor of their candidate, two ships of war ready
for service, and a sum of money, the exact amount of which I cannot now remember, but I think
it was half a million dollars. Naturally he did not tell me if he had closed with the proposition,
but the making of it by the committee was a revelation as to the purity of American politics
which he fully understood. This committee had presented itself with the authority of Franklin
Pierce, Democratic candidate for the presidency.

The scheme in which he at first proposed to utilize my services was the formation of a deposit
of arms and materials of war at a point in the Mediterranean from which he could descend promptly
on the coast of Croatia, and this indicated that the two men-of-war of the committee entered
into his plans. The desired point he found in the little island of Galita, south of Sardinia,
unoccupied and apparently unclaimed by any power, but on which, he told me, the flag of the
United States had been hoisted some years before by one of our cruisers; evidently as a joke
on the part of some of our sailors. I was to visit it and report on its fitness for his purpose;
but negotiations dragged, or there was some hitch, nothing was concluded until Kossuth's departure
for Europe became necessary, and Pulzsky, his alter ego, was given full instructions concerning
me. I was to follow when affairs were in a certain state of readiness; and, in fact, after
a few weeks, I was summoned to London. I received from Pulzsky the clue to Kossuth's quarters,
in a quiet street, Bayswater way, if I remember rightly, to which I was to go only late at
night, and by some roundabout road, as the Austrian spies were always watching him.

I had a letter to a Madam Schmidt, a German refugee, and an advanced republican, at whose house
I used to meet a little assembly of refugees,--German, French, Russian, etc. Every Sunday night
we used to meet and discuss the politics of Europe. Of my friends of this circle I remember
only one,--a Mr. Norich, a young Russian, with whom I contracted a close friendship, never
since renewed. Nothing more was said of the Galita plan, which seems to have depended on the
success of the political negotiations with the Americans, and it was finally decided that I
should go to Milan and carry the proclamations which Kossuth was to issue to the Hungarian
soldiers of the Italian garrison there, ordering them, in case of any revolt, not to fire on
insurgent Italians. This was in prevision of the insurrection which Mazzini had determined
for the spring of 1853, and with regard to which there were grave dissensions between the two
chiefs. Kossuth was not ready for the Hungarian rising, and refused to order it till there
was a prospect of success, while Mazzini believed that, even if unsuccessful, the rising was
necessary to keep his influence on the Italian population, which was already shaken. Kossuth
said to me that he disapproved Mazzini's plans, for he refused "to play with the blood of the
nations;" but, if Mazzini persisted, he would give the order to the Hungarian troops not to
fire on the people if any rising should take place; more than that he could not do.

Pending the ripening of Mazzini's scheme I waited in London, at the orders of Kossuth, but
before the moment came for my undertaking this mission a new one became urgent. When the Hungarian
insurrection of 1848-49 had become evidently a failure, and Kossuth was about to escape into
Turkey, he decided to conceal, in some place secure from Austrian discovery, the crown jewels,
including the crown of St. Stephen, which was considered by the Hungarian people as necessary
to the lawful coronation of their king, and with which Francis Joseph had not been crowned;
and he and Bartholomew Szemere, one of his colleagues in the ministry--employing for their
operations a detachment of prisoners, who were shot after the concealment was complete--buried
the jewels at some point down the Danube. Having received information that Szemere, who was
then opposed to Kossuth, was about to disclose their hiding-place to the Austrian government,
Kossuth determined to remove them, and organized an expedition to this end, of which I was
to become the apparent head. The description of the hiding-place was written in a most complicated
cipher dispatch, the key to which was contained in a stanza of a song known to Kossuth's correspondent
in Pesth. Each letter in the dispatch was represented by a fraction, of which the numerator
was the number of the letter in one of the lines of the song, and the denominator the number
of the line. This dispatch was then written in four parts; the first, fifth, ninth, etc., letters
being put in the first part; the second, sixth, tenth, etc., in the second; the third, seventh,
eleventh, etc., in the third; the fourth, eighth, twelfth, etc., in the fourth, and so on to
the end. Of these parts of the dispatch, written on the finest paper, I had charge of two;
one for myself, and one for a person indicated at Pesth, and the other two were to go by way
of Constantinople, one for the confederate who carried it and one for the correspondent who
had the song-key. We were to meet and spell out the directions and go to the hiding-place,
and, when the jewels were recovered, they were to be hidden in a box of a conserve for which
that vicinity was noted, and then carried to Constantinople, from which point I was to take
charge of them and deliver them in Boston to Dr. S.G. Howe, the well-known Philhellene.

I folded my portion of these dispatches small, wrapped them in thin gutta-percha, and, going
to the most obscure shoemaker in the part of London which I knew, had the heel of one of my
boots excavated and the packet deposited in the hole and covered over again by a stout heel-tap.
My orders were to take at least six weeks for the journey, to go by a roundabout route, and
travel as if for pleasure. From the Austrian territory I was to write to Kossuth all the political
information I could collect, the messages being conveyed in a cryptograph in which the form
of the letter was to be that of a correspondence between lovers. The words composing the message
were to be written on spaces left in a mask of which each had a copy, and the spaces between
the words then filled up so that the letter would carry some meaning when read as a whole.
Love-letters were supposed to give most room for nonsense. Knowing very little French, I bought
a pocket dictionary and a copy of Racine, and, during a ten days' stay in Paris, by diligent
use of the former in all my transactions, I picked up enough for the needs of travel, and,
spending all my leisure over the latter, I was, before my mission was over, able to converse
with considerable fluency and knew my Racine thoroughly.

From Paris I made the journey to Brussels in the company of an American gentleman, Mr. Coxe,
of Alabama, traveling with his wife and daughter. At Brussels I made, through the Coxes, the
acquaintance of M. Le Hardy de Beaulieu, the leader of a section of the Belgian Liberals, whose
father had held a command in the Belgian contingent at Waterloo. My acquaintance with M. Le
Hardy lasted many years, he being much interested in America, and having, with his brother,
founded a Belgian colony in Alabama. The ancestral estate of the Le Hardys included part of
the field of Waterloo, and we visited it in company with M. Le Hardy, who pointed out the trenches
made by the heavy artillery of Napoleon still distinguishable on the surface of the fields
in spite of the subsequent ploughings. I suppose that his familiarity with the fields from
his boyhood gives authority to his assurance that the depressions we saw were the effect of
the ploughing of the guns in the wet, soft earth, and did not exist in the natural lay of the
land, and the incident brought one very near to the great struggle which fixed for long the
position of England in European politics. M. Le Hardy had been, like his father before him,
urged to resume the title of nobility which the father had renounced in the warmth of the republican
movement prior to the Empire, having burned the patent in the square at Brussels; but, like
the father, he had always refused. He was a consistent and, as he would now be classed, a moderate
republican.

Visiting Dusseldorf for the sake of the school of art there, I seemed to go into the Middle
Ages. We landed from the Rhine steamer in the night, finding the streets deserted even by the
police, and dimly lighted by oil lamps hung across them at wide intervals, and I wandered a
long time at random with my valise in hand, searching for a hotel, and not meeting a living
person to ask guidance of. I blundered at length on a little inn in whose drinking-room still
burned a light, and in which I found a night's lodging. Such a primitive state of civilization
was to me, fresh from Paris and Brussels, romantic. At Berlin I made the acquaintance of Varnhagen
von Ense, through a letter of introduction from Frau Schmidt, my republican refugee friend
of London. He treated me with great consideration, and promised me a winter of brilliant social
life if I would stay at Berlin. The chief inducement offered was the acquaintance of Humboldt,
then absent from the city. Of Varnhagen von Ense I retain the most delightful memory. I found
him courteous, genial, and hospitable, with a large-minded outlook on politics and a great
interest in America. I saw also the new museum, with Kaulbach at work on his frescoes, and,
going by Dresden, reached Prague, where I began my political reports to Kossuth.

Arriving at Vienna, I was beforehand with the famous police, which I found not to merit its
reputation for sharpness, and went at once, after establishing myself at the hotel, and before
my name was reported to the authorities and a spy put on me, to the address of a republican,
known to Kossuth, and to whom I was directed to apply for the identification of some Hungarian
resident in the city on whom Kossuth could depend to reëstablish communication with the Viennese
malcontents, broken by a misadventure of his former agent. This adventure Kossuth recounted
to me, I suppose to keep up my courage in the perilous business he was sending me on. One of
his agents had been sent on a round tour with instructions for certain officers or soldiers,
and, having been detected in communication with the barracks and arrested, a memorandum book
was found on him in which, amongst many addresses of persons to whom he had no mission, those
to which he was directed were interspersed. All were arrested, among them the Vienna agent,
who, ignorant of the reason of his arrest, suspecting treachery, and fearing the disclosures
that might be extorted from him by torture, rolled himself in his bedclothes and set fire to
them with his candle, the only means of suicide left him. When he felt that the burning was
fatal he made an alarm and bade the attendant call the council of war, which immediately met
in his cell. He then avowed his complicity in treasonable plans, and, assuring them that nothing
more could be extorted from him by any torture they might inflict, that his chief would soon
come and make all things right, and that there were thousands more as ready to die as he, he
refused to say any more and died in silence.

My business was to find a man to take this agent's place. The individual to whom I was sent
was a ribbon manufacturer on one of the main streets, and, pretending a desire to visit his
weaving rooms, we went to the manufactory in the upper stories, and then I disclosed, with
no preamble, my mission. The good man was in ecstasies, and to show his joy invited me down
into his living apartments and introduced me to his wife, daughters, and the lover of one of
his daughters, as a messenger from Kossuth! If my hair did not rise on end, I am certain that
at no crisis of my life could it ever have done so. During my ten days' stay in Vienna and
the four weeks I afterward passed in Pesth, I never lost a nervous apprehension of the consequences
of this singular imprudence, for I was in the enemy's country, on business the slightest suspicion
of which meant an obscure prison and complete disappearance from any friend. With cipher dispatches
on my person in the handwriting of Kossuth, well known to all the authorities, and with my
secret in the possession of five women and two men, the uneasiness I felt for the first two
or three days can better be imagined than expressed. I did nothing all day long but walk the
streets, drink coffee, and smoke cigars with constant apprehension of an arrest.

But I did not neglect my business. I found a Hungarian whose name Kossuth had given me as the
alternative probable medium of the renewed relations with Vienna, but he not only refused to
have any relations with the late dictator, but strongly warned me of the possible consequences
to myself of the mission I was on, and made me see very clearly that Kossuth overrated his
influence on the Hungarians after the débâcle, for which he was largely responsible. But it
never occurred to me that it was possible to withdraw or do less than obey my instructions.
I reported to Kossuth that the only person I could find who was willing to assume the responsibility
of entering into relations with him was the ribbon-maker, and then, having acquired the confidence
of the American consul, who was a zealous agent of the imperial government, and got his visé
for Hungary, I made my way to Pesth.

Once on the scene of my real labors, I discovered how incompetent a conspirator Kossuth was.
He had given me the name of his correspondent in Pesth and his residence, in the Karolyisches
Haus, as if that were his ordinary residence, without warning me, though he knew it, that he
was really in hiding from the police, and probably only to be reached with precaution and indirectly.
Adopting the same tactics as in Vienna, and not to attract attention by inquiries, I went at
once in a cab to the house. The porter, of course, in reply to my inquiries, being in hearing
of the cab-driver, who was probably a spy, denied any knowledge of such a person. I drove back
to the hotel, and then went on foot alone and asked again for the individual, but got the same
reply, this time angrily delivered. Utterly at a loss what to do, I wrote at once to Kossuth
that the person wanted was not at the address indicated. Instead of writing to him to find
me and giving him my address, Kossuth only reiterated through the post the former instructions.
I repeated the denial, and then waited. In conversation with the hotel people I inquired as
fully as was possible without exciting suspicion, about persons of liberal tendencies and such
as I conceived that I might make use of, and studied the position as best I could. Pending
this study I was summoned to the police headquarters to give an account of myself. This I did
in a manner which must have been satisfactory, as they found that I knew little German and
was a very stupid and unpractical individual, which I must have really been, to find myself
there. I accounted for myself as a landscape painter on his travels, and as I knew nobody and
made no acquaintances they dismissed all suspicion of me, our consul's assurance no doubt covering
all doubts, and I waited still. But after a few days more a convenient attack of illness gave
me a pretext for calling a physician, and I chose Dr. Orzovensky, who I had learned had been
chief of the medical staff under the revolutionary authorities. Through him I made such inquiries
as were possible about the people to whom I was sent, and then for the first time discovered
that they were all under accusation as conspirators and searched for by the police, and of
this I had no warning from Kossuth.

But in all this wandering my boot-heel was wearing away, and it was a question of wearing into
the packet of dispatches, or putting them in a place of security. I accordingly dug them out,
and, hiding them in a convenient corner of the cupboard in my room, where they must soon have
been discovered in case of a domiciliary visit, took the excavated boots out to throw them
into the river, choosing the earliest darkness of the rainy evening of the same day. I knew
that if the bootblack saw the excavated heel he would in all probability report the fact, and
my arrest would follow. In my ignorance of the fact that the city was under martial law, and
that without a pass no one could be in the streets after 8 P.M., I had waited till 9 to be
screened by the darkness, and then, walking down the river on the dike, I slipped down to the
water's edge by the path, and gently tossed the boots into the rapid current. Seeing the dangerous
articles float away into the dark, I turned to go up the dike to the road running along the
top of it, when, to my dismay, I heard a sentinel directly across the road challenge, saw the
officer of the guard coming on his rounds, and heard his reply to the challenge. I hurried
down the bank, hoping that I had not attracted attention, but feeling that in the contrary
case I was in most imminent danger of arrest, and the thought of the dispatches left where
they must be found in case of suspicion gave me a moment's anxiety. I hurried back along the
water's edge till I judged that I was out of sight from the post, and then walked up on the
dike and towards the hotel.

It was very dark and raining slightly, but as I came within the circle of light of one of the
street lamps the vigilant eye of the officer of the guard caught me, and he hailed, "Who goes
there?" I did not reply, but, acting as if I did not hear, hurried to get directly under the
lamp which was near, with a feeling that if the officer saw me there he would see that I was
what I pretended to be, a stranger, and also with a feeling that I was safer at a distance
if the challenge were followed by a bullet. Under the lamp I stopped for the officer to come
up. I was not really frightened, but I cannot deny that I felt very nervous, as he came up,
and, in an inquisitorial tone, asked, "What are you doing here?" I replied in German which
was certainly comical and not a little shaky, for it was a fragmentary remembrance of the German
read in my early college course, and never since revived, that "I was doing nothing--that I
was a strangers" (ich bin ein Fremden), and had come out to see the effects on the river, pointing
to the glimmering lights; but, fortunately, my German was so funny that he burst out laughing,
and after a "sehr schön, sehr schön," as I had said "strangers" in the plural, he replied,
"When you are a strangers you must stay in the house," and gave me friendly directions as to
how to get back to my hotel without falling in with the police, "who wouldn't let you off as
I have." I was fortunate enough to arrive without any further notice. The officers of the army
hated to do police service, and my inquisitor was no doubt glad not to pass me into the custody
of the police. I have always wished to know the name of my protector, for such he was.

I remained in Pesth over a month, exciting an increasing attention and being unable to account
for a further delay, as I was doing nothing, not even sketching, which, in the vicinity of
a fortress, would have been the surest way of inviting arrest. I profited by the acquaintance
of Dr. Orzovensky's family to pass the time agreeably, and, finally, being unable to extort
by post further instructions from Kossuth, or explanations in reply to two urgent letters describing
the position I was in, and being unable to give any reason for a longer stay, or to find the
people I was sent to, I determined to go back to London and start again with fuller oral instructions
and a better understanding of the difficulties. I went to Orzovensky and frankly told him my
errand, and asked him if I might leave the dispatches in some place known to him, so that he
could indicate to some other person, should my mission be taken up by another, where they were
to be found. He burst out on me with violence, accusing me of endangering his family as well
as himself, and assuring me that if the slightest suspicion of my mission should transpire
they would all be thrown into prison, and he be ruined, refusing to have anything to do or
say about the dispatches, and breaking off all communications with me on the spot.

I had not, up to that moment, felt any real fright, though, when I stood under the scrutiny
of the officer on the dike, I must confess I felt extremely nervous; but Orzovensky's violence,
and his own panic at the thought of having harbored treason so long, making me fear that his
anxiety to escape all suspicion might compel him to denounce me, gave me a mauvais quart d'heure.
I was instantaneously in an awful funk, and I had a practical demonstration of the "vox haesit
in faucibus," for I was unable to reply to the good doctor in anything but the faintest whisper,
and my tongue clattered in my mouth, as dry as a stick, in an instant. I threw the dispatches
in the sink and took the next train for Vienna, undisturbed by the train running off the track
in the night, in the greater anxiety of my position, and, after making at the station of Vienna
only a hasty lunch on a boiled sausage and a roll, continued my journey by express until I
was out of the Austrian dominions, and stopped to sleep at Frankfort. My panic was as unreasonable
as my security had been, for there was no reason to believe that Dr. Orzovensky would warn
the authorities, or that I could not have carried the dispatches back to Kossuth in safety.
My habitual courage was not the courage of one who realizes his danger and faces it coolly,
but that of constitutional inability to realize what the danger is, however clearly it may
be shown to him. As a habit the realization of my danger only came to me when the danger itself
had gone by, and then I was frightened.

Arrived at London, I went to report to Kossuth, expecting a scene and reproaches, when I was
prepared to show him that the failure of the mission was due to his having neglected to inform
me that I was going to a man wanted by the police, and in close hiding, so that my failure
to find him was probably due to the openness with which I made my approaches, and to his not
having then informed his correspondent that I was on the ground expecting to see him, and that
he must look out for me. But he only exclaimed, with a tone of regret, "Three months lost!"
yet there was, probably, a reciprocal disapproval of our methods of carrying on a conspiracy;
for, while he was most gravely disappointed at getting no result from his work and expenditure,
no doubt owing largely to my incompetence for that kind of service, I was equally dissatisfied
at being sent on an expedition which put my life in imminent danger, with the minor perils
of torture and long imprisonment, provided with information utterly insufficient and needlessly
incomplete for the mission confided to me.

If Kossuth had cautioned me that his correspondent was in hiding and wanted by the police,
I should not have committed the grave error of going openly to find him, and under the eye
of a cabman, who would probably report to the police my act. Had he even after that informed
his correspondent where I could be found and who I was (which was perfectly practicable, for
he told me himself that he had received letters from the correspondent during my stay at Pesth),
there could have been communication at once. Kossuth said that I ought to have sought out the
friends at the Tiger café, where they were in the habit of meeting publicly, though he knew
that the city was swarming with spies, and that the state of siege existed (and of this, even,
he did not warn me), and that my chief difficulty was to avoid being brought into contact with
suspected Hungarians; nor did he recollect that he had given precise instructions to avoid
anything which might lead any one to suppose that I was more than an objectless traveler. I
was most reasonably disgusted with having my life exposed in this careless way, and he, perhaps,
as reasonably so with my want of resource, and the result was that he decided not to employ
me again in such work, and I decided to wait for active insurrectionary movements, in which
I could take my place. As it happened, however, the Austrian government had recovered the crown
jewels; some one in the secret--Kossuth said Szemere--having learned that Kossuth was sending
an expedition to recover them, and, from jealousy of him, disclosed the hiding-place.

Kossuth's practical incapacity for the minutiae of conspiracy in this case was, I judged from
what I afterward learned of his compatriots, characteristic of him. He continually neglected
the details of important affairs, working by magnificent inspirations, which left out of consideration
the defects of human nature. His self-exaltation had offended many patriots who did not fall
under his personal magnetism, and his assumption of authority in military matters where he
had no knowledge to justify it, alienated the competent officers. The treason of Görgey, as
it was popularly considered, was probably due to the perception that Kossuth was an impracticable
head for an active revolution, under whose dictature there was no hope of final success while
he at the same time refused to abandon his impracticable ideals; and I heard from actual participants
that there was great dissatisfaction amongst the officers with his assumption of dignity, out
of place, and of command, for which he was incompetent. The fact was that he could not distinguish
between the practicable and the impracticable, and though not so visionary as Mazzini, he believed
that his power of arousing the wild enthusiasm of the Honveds and masses of Hungarians, due
to his marvelous eloquence, was enough to carry on war with, and he would not see that, from
the moment that Russia intervened, it was only a question of time when and how the insurrection
should end. Then his treatment of the Slavonic element of the population was fatal to the movement.
The Serbs only asked to be admitted on an equal footing with the Magyars to the struggle against
the centralizing tendency of the German element at Vienna, and Kossuth contemptuously exclaimed,
in response to their demand, "These Rascians, who consider themselves a nation and are only
a band of robbers," etc.,--a reply hardly calculated to conciliate--one which in fact threw
the Slavonic population against the movement and made the Russian intervention inevitable.
Kossuth, like Mazzini, was simply an insurrectionary force--the administrative power existed
only in great and imposing schemes which lacked adaptation to ordinary human nature and existing
circumstances. The personal fascination of the man was beyond anything I have ever known, but
his failure as the chief of a state was, I believe, inevitable.

I took my congé as secret agent, but it was understood that when the renewal of the revolt
from Austria, to which he looked forward at no distant time, was at hand, I should take the
place to which I had looked forward in the beginning. I saw one of Kossuth's associates subsequently,
after the failure of Mazzini's Milan movement in the spring of 1853; and he then told me of
the failure, and how the Hungarian soldiers, as had been ordered, refused to fire on the insurgents
and had been decimated and sent to Croatia. More than thirty years after, I went to see Kossuth
at Turin, and introduced myself as the young man who went to Hungary for him to carry off the
crown jewels. He burst out with an impetuous denial of the existence of the expedition. "But,"
said I, "I have your letters written to me in Pesth." "I should like to see those letters,"
he replied. I promised to send them, conditionally on his promise to return them; but thinking
it over, I sent him only one, inclosed in a stamped envelope directed to myself, with a letter
recalling the promise to send it back. I never heard from him again, however, and saw that
he only wanted to get the letters to suppress their evidence.

CHAPTER VIII

AN ART STUDENT IN PARIS

I went to Paris to wait for the impending rising in Milan, and meanwhile entered the atelier
of Yvon, not to lose my time. My only English-speaking companion in the atelier was a younger
brother of Edward Armitage, the Royal Academician; the popular atelier at that time for the
English and American students being that of Couture. Yvon had about thirty pupils, to whom
his attentions were given gratuitously and conscientiously, three times a week, with rare exceptions
of the Saturday visit, by the pupils regarded as the least important. Of the thirty there were
not more than a half dozen who showed any degree of special aptitude for their work, and only
two were regarded by their colleagues as likely to be an honor to the atelier in the future,
and of these, unless they have changed their names, no renown has come in later times. There
was a marquis whose income was one hundred francs a month, and a count whose father gave him
five sous and a piece of bread for his breakfast when he left home, but the rest were plebeians,
with neither past nor future, whose enthusiasm in the face of their weekly failures, and patience
in following an arid path, were most interesting as a social phenomenon. I have always found
more to wonder at in the failures than in the great successes of artist life--seeing the content
and even happiness which some of the hopelessly enthusiastic found in their futile and endless
labor. We used to go to work at six in the morning, draw two hours and then go to a little
laiterie and take our bowl of café au lait and a small loaf of bread, and then draw till noon,
when we went home for the second breakfast. Armitage and myself used to breakfast at the Palais
Royal, or some other quarter where the bill of fare was by the rest of the men considered luxurious,
and we were dubbed the "aristocrats" of the atelier, my breakfast costing me one franc and
a half and my dinner two francs. I had fixed my expenses, as in London, at the limit of twenty-five
francs a week, which had to pay all the expenses of atelier, food, and lodging, and it was
surprising how much comfort could then be got for that sum.

I had found a tiny room in the maison meublée in the Cité d'Antin where Mrs. Coxe lived, and
Mr. Coxe in returning to America had given me charge of his women folk, so that I had a social
resource and a relief from tedium which gave me no expense. On Sunday the daughter came home
from school, and we all went out to dine at one or another of the Palais Royal restaurants,
or made, in the fine weather, an excursion into the environs. Now and then, Mrs. Coxe invited
me to take them to the theatre, and thus I saw some of the famous actors, Rachel and Frédéric
Lemaître being still vividly impressed on my memory. The afternoons of the week days were given
to the galleries and visiting the studios of the painters whose work attracted me, and who
admitted visitors. I thus made the acquaintance of Delacroix, Gérôme, Théodore Rousseau, and
by a chance met Delaroche and Ingres; but Delacroix most interested me, and I made an application
to him to be received as a pupil, which he in a most amiable manner refused, but he seemed
interested in putting me on the right way and gave me such advice as was in the range of casual
conversation. I asked him what, in his mind, was the principal defect of modern art, as compared
with ancient, and he replied "the execution." He had endeavored to remedy this in his own case
by extensive copying of the old masters, and he showed me many of the copies--passages of different
works, apparently made with the object of catching the quality of execution.

In fact, if we consider the differences between the system of education in painting and that
in music or any other art or occupation in which the highest executive ability is required,
we shall see that we give insufficient opportunity for the painter's hand to acquire the subtle
skill we find in the successful violinist or pianist, and which is due to the early and incessant
practice in the manual operations of his art. The fact is recognized, that the education of
a violinist must begin in the early years, when the will and hand are flexible, and not merely
the training, but the occupation, is almost exclusive, for the specialist is made only by a
special and relatively exclusive devotion to the particular faculties which are desired to
be trained. It is useless to attempt to develop the finest qualities of the draughtsman without
the same attention to the condition of training which we insist on in the musician. The theory
may come later, the intellectual element may develop under many influences, and healthily,
later in life, but the hand is too fine and subtly constituted an implement to be brought into
its best condition and efficiency unless trained from the beginning to the definite use imposed
on it.

Admitting, therefore, as I do, that the criticism of Delacroix was just, it is evident that,
until we give to the modern student of painting a similar training to that which the early
one had, we cannot expect him to attain the executive powers of the Italian renaissance, nor
can we be sure that he appreciates the subtlety of the work of the masters, any more than the
member of a village choir can understand the finesse of the highest order of musical execution,
or its first violinist appreciate the touch of a Joachim or a Sarasate. For it is just in the
last refinement of touch of a Raphael drawing or the rapid and expressive outline of a Mantegna
that we find the analogy between the two arts, in a refinement of touch which is lost on the
public, and appreciated only by the practiced student either of music or painting. This final
attainment of the hand is only possible to a man who has been trained as a boy to his work.
We find it in a water-color drawing of Turner, as in a pencil drawing of Raphael, and in the
outlines of the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, but in modern figure painting never, even in
France, where the youth generally takes up the training at fourteen to sixteen. I believe that
the reason why this supreme manual excellence is so completely lacking, even in French art,
that, so far as I know, only Meissonier amongst them has attained a measure of it, is that
the seriousness of life and purpose necessary for any consummate achievement is so rarely found
there in conjunction with that early and sound training.

Another acquaintance made in these days, which has always remained a delight to me, was that
of Théodore Rousseau, to my mind the greatest of the French landscape painters. Though living
and working mostly at Barbison, he had a studio in Paris, and there I used to see him, always
received in the friendly and helpful way which was characteristic of most of the French artists
of the higher order. Later I went to Barbison, where, besides Rousseau, I knew J.F. Millet,
and a minor, but in his way a very remarkable, painter, Charles Jacque. Rousseau was a most
instructive talker on art, beyond the sphere of which he hardly seemed to care to go in his
thinking. He had never been out of France, had never seen the Alps, and did not care for mountain
scenery, but concentrated all his feelings and labor on what he used to call "sujets intimes,"
the picturesque nooks of landscape one can always find in a highly cultivated country, where
nature is tamed to an intimacy with the domestic spirit, or where she vainly struggles against
the invasion of culture, as in the borders of the forest of Fontainebleau. In such material,
nature withdraws farther and makes a wider margin for art, and the wedding and welding of the
two become more subtle and playful.

It has always seemed to me that with all the differences inherent in the antagonism of the
characters of the two men, the essential features of the art of Rousseau and Turner were the
same; pure impressionism based on the most intimate and largest knowledge of the facts of nature,
but without direct copying of them--rather working from memoranda or memories, for neither
ever painted directly from nature; the same conception of the subject as a whole, its rhythmic
and harmonic unity as opposed to the fragmentary manner of treatment of most of their contemporaries;
the lyric passion in line and tint; the same originality which often became waywardness in
the conception of subject in itself; the same revolt from all precedent; and the same passion
for subtle gradation and infinite space, air, and light--and some of Rousseau's skies were
the most vaporous I have ever seen. These are the fundamental agreements of the art of the
two great masters, and in those qualities no other man of their countries and epoch has equaled
them, but outside of these the contrasts are of the most pronounced. Pyne told me that Turner
said he wished he could do without trees; Rousseau worshiped them. Turner loved the mountains;
Rousseau never cared to see them and never painted one. Turner, a colorist, reveled in color
like a Bacchanal; Rousseau, a tonalist, felt it like a vestal; but both had the sense of color
in the subtlest refinement.

Rousseau used to say that if you had not your picture in the first five lines you would never
have it, and he laid down as a rule that whenever you worked on it you should go over the whole
and keep it together, growing in all parts pari passu. Wishing to give me a lesson in values
one day as he was painting, he turned his palette over and painted a complete little scheme
of a picture on the back of it, suggested by the subject before us as we looked out of the
studio window. He showed me his studies from nature, mere notes of form and of local color
and pastel. It was to me always a puzzle that, even in the educated art circles of Paris, Corot
should have found so great a popularity as compared to that of Rousseau. Without in the least
disparaging the greatness of Corot's best work, such for instance as the St. Sebastian and
some other classical subjects, the names of which I cannot recall, the range of conception
and treatment is limited as compared with that of Rousseau. This alone would give Corot a lower
rank, in the absence of a marked superiority in some special high quality--superiority which
does not exist, for the picked work of Rousseau possesses technical excellences all its own,
as consummate as anything in the world's landscape art, while the range of treatment and subject,
so much greater in Rousseau than in Corot, puts the limited and mannered art of the latter
as a whole in a distinct inferiority.

Of Millet I saw much less, but enough to know the man and his art, simple and human, the one
as the other. His love for manhood in its most primitive attainable types, those furnished
by the peasant, was the outcome of his conception of art, such as the Greek of the early schools
conceived it, the expression of humanity in a simple and therefore noble state, and of the
honest, open, healthy nature of the man himself, averse to all sophistication of society, reverent
of an ideal in art, and intolerant of affectations. He conceived and executed his pictures
in the pure Greek spirit, working out his ideal as his imagination presented it to him, not
as the model served him. The form is of his own day, the spirit of his art that of all time
and of all good art, the elaboration of a type and not merely the reproduction of a picturesque
model. It is the custom now to class all peasant subjects, emulating the forms of Millet, as
belonging to his art. Nothing is more absurd, for the art of Millet was subjective, not realistic;
it was in the feeling of the art of Phidias and the Italian renaissance, not in the modern
pose plastique. The peasant in it was merely incidental to his sympathy with ideal life. Millet
was himself a peasant, he used to say, and his moral purpose, if he had any, was the glorification,
so far as art can effect it, of his class, the class which above all others in his eyes dignified
humanity and held his sympathy. This feeling was with him no affectation, but the deliberate,
final conclusion of his life--he reverenced the sabot and the blouse, the implements of tillage
and work, as the Greek did his gods and the implements of war and glory; he saw humanity reduced
to its simplest and most noble physical functions and possibilities, as the Greek did the perfection
of the physical form, but he lacked the perception of the types of pure beauty of the Greek.

The personal relations between Rousseau and Millet were in the best sense of the word fraternal,
and from neither did I ever hear a word to the disparagement of a brother artist, while Rousseau
used to talk in the subtlest vein of critical appreciation of his rivals among the landscape
painters, the Duprés, Ziem, Troyon, and others, so that I regret that in those days I thought
only of my own instruction, and not of the putting on record the opinions of a man whose ideas
of art were amongst the most exalted I have known.

A charming nature was that of Troyon, a simple, robust worker, and, like all the larger characters
in the French art world with whom I became acquainted, full of sympathy and guidance for those
who wanted light and leading. But the lives of these three great painters, like that of Corot
(whom I never knew personally), show how completely the French public, so proud of its intelligence
of art, ignored the best qualities of it till outsiders pointed to them. Troyon told me that
for the first ten years of his career he had never sold a picture, but lived by painting for
Sèvres; the prosperity of Millet came from the patronage of American collectors, led by the
appreciation of a Bostonian painter, William Hunt, and I well remember his famous "Sowers"
on the highest line in the Salon, so completely skied that only one who looked for a Millet
was likely to see it; while Rousseau, at the time I speak of, was glad to accept the smallest
commission, and sold mostly to American collectors. Nor is it otherwise with the Rousseaus,
Millets, and Troyons of to-day--the public taste, and the banal criticism of a journalism at
its best the tardy echo of the opinions of the rare wise man, find genius only when it has
ceased to have the quality of the new and unforeseen.

Yvon, in whose atelier I worked, was essentially a teacher, and his more recent assignment
to the directorship of the Ecole des Beaux-Arts put him in his true place, that of a master
of style in drawing and the elements of art instruction. He was engaged, when I knew him, on
the battle-pieces of the Crimean war, the chief of which were already at Versailles. His was
an earnest, indefatigable nature. He was as kindly and zealous a teacher as if he were receiving,
like his English confrères, a guinea a lesson. Nothing so strongly marked the difference between
the French and the English feeling for art as this characteristic feature of the disinterestedness
of the French artist in giving instruction without compensation, while his English colleague
of equal distinction gave instruction only at a price impracticable for a poor artist, if indeed
he would give it at any price. And even thus, the English drawing-master did not teach art,
but facile tricks of the brush. Need one seek any other reason for the curious fact that, with
a marked superiority in the occasional highest attainment of rare and original abilities which
English art shows, France has become the school of Europe, than that in England the master
will teach only on terms which are prohibitive of the formation of a school, while in France,
with few exceptions, the most eminent painters regard it as a duty to open their ateliers to
pupils often gratuitously, but in any case freely and on terms which are adaptable to the modest
means of the poorest class of workers? In how different a position in relation to the art of
the world would English art now be in, had Sir Joshua, Gainsborough, Hogarth, Turner, and two
or three others who could be named, thrown open their studios to the young enthusiasts who
followed them, and the sterling talents which have never been wanting in England been enabled
to profit by the experience and art of their elders, instead of groping their way alone to
efficiency, or, still worse, going to South Kensington, generally "arriving" too late to succeed
fully!

Waiting the word from Kossuth which should call me to join the ever-impending and ever-postponed
insurrection, I passed the winter thus, profiting as I could by all opportunities for the study
of art and making acquaintance with the artists. My money was running to an end, but this was
a matter in which my faith in Providence did not allow me to borrow trouble, and I made it
a rule never to run into debt. That I never borrowed I cannot say, but I never did so except
in cases where I was in such personal relations with the lender that if I died without paying
the debt, it would neither weigh on him nor on my conscience. I kept up my regular round of
economy and work, and one Saturday, when I had paid for my dinner at the Palais Royal restaurant,
I found myself with fifty centimes in my pocket, and went on a long walk in the streets of
Paris, to meditate on my immediate future. Mrs. Coxe, one of the kindest of friends, would,
I knew, gladly lend me what I needed, but I did not allow her to know that I needed, and how
to pay for my next day's dinner I did not see. Still, confident that something would turn up,
I walked towards my lodgings through the Rue Royale and its arcades, feeling the ten-sou piece
in my pocket, when I saw a young girl dart out from one of the recesses of the arcade, dragging
after her a boy of two or three years, and then, as if her courage failed, turn and hide herself
and him again in the doorway from which she had come. I saw her case at once,--want and shame
at begging,--went to her and gave her the ten-sou piece, and went to bed feeling better.

The next day being Sunday and no atelier, I slept late, and was awaked by a knock at my door,
when to the spoken "Entrez" came in no other than my friend Dr. Ruggles, between whom and myself
there were various communities of feeling which made us like brothers. He sat down by my bedside,
and, salutations passed, broke out, "Do you want any money?" His grandfather, just dead, had
left him a legacy, and he had come to Paris, artist-like, to spend it. I took from him, as
I would have given him the half of my last dollar, a hundred francs, and on this I lived my
normal life until, some weeks later, a friend of my brother arriving from New York with instructions
to find me out and provide for my wants if I had any, supplied me for any probable emergency,
including an order for a free passage home on a steamer of which my brother was part owner.
I waited till the spring homesickness made it too irksome to live quietly in Paris, and then
finding that the revolution so long waited for had gone by, I went home and to my painting.

In American landscape the element of the picturesque is in a serious deficiency. What is old
is the wild and savage, the backwoods and the wild mountain, with no trace of human presence
or association to give it sentiment; what is new is still in the crude and angular state in
which the utilities are served, and the comfort of the man and his belongings most considered.
Nothing is less paintable than a New England village; nothing is more monotonous than the woodland
mountain of any of the ranges of eastern North America. The valley of the Mohawk is one of
the earliest settled and least unpicturesque sections of the Eastern States, with its old Dutch
farmhouses and the winding of the beautiful river; but I had explored it on foot and in every
direction for miles around my birthplace, and found nothing that seemed to "make up" save trees
and water. I spent one summer after my return amongst these familiar scenes, but found the
few subjects which repaid study too remote from any habitable centre to repay the labor needed
to get at them. I made long foot excursions through the valleys of the Connecticut and Housatonic;
but, after my experience in rural England, it was very discouraging to ransack that still unhumanized
landscape for pictures. Everything was too neat and trim, and I remember that one day, when
I was on my search for a "bit," I found a dilapidated barn which tempted me to sit down before
it, when the farmwife, guessing my intentions, ran out to beg me "not to take the barn yet;
they were going to do it up the next week as good as new, and wouldn't I wait?"

An accident drove me to pass one of these summers in as complete seclusion from society as
I could find, and where I should be able to do nothing but paint. I had been, two years before,
hit in the face by a snow missile, during one of the snowballing saturnalia the New York roughs
indulged in after every fall of snow; in this case the missile was a huge block of frozen snow-crust,
which flattened my nose on my face and broke the upper maxillary inclosing all the front teeth.
I modeled the nose up on the spot, for it was as plastic as clay, but the broken bone became
carious, and, after enduring for two years the fear of having my head eaten off by caries,
and having resigned the chance of having it shot off in the revolution, I decided to let my
brother operate. The bone inclosing the front teeth was taken out with the six teeth, and I
was sent into retirement for three months at least, while the jaw was getting ready for the
work of the dentist.

I had seen, when last in England, the picture by Millais, "The Proscribed Royalist," which
gave me a suggestion of the treatment of a landscape which should be mainly foreground, such
as I particularly delighted in. Hoping to find a woodland subject which admitted of this treatment,
I went to pass the summer on the farm of an old uncle (where I had caught my first trout),
knowing it to be heavily wooded. Of course when one goes out to look for a particular thing
he never finds it, nor did I then find the tree subject I wanted, but I found a little spring
under a branching beech and surrounded by mossy boulders, and, taking a canvas of my usual
size,--25x30 inches,--I gave three months to painting it and carried it home still somewhat
unfinished. It was an attractive subject, though not what I had wanted, and was hung in one
of the best places in the Academy exhibition, making its mark and mine. It was absolutely unconventional,
and the old stagers did not know what to say of a picture which was all foreground. There was
much discussion, and, amongst the younger painters, much subsequent emulation; but it did not
find a purchaser at my price--$250. Anything so thoroughly realistic that, as President Durand
said, "The stones seemed to be, not painting, but the real thing," puzzled the ordinary picture
buyer; and the American Art Union, which was the principal buyer of the day, and the dernier
ressort of the young artist, was managed by a committee of ordinary picture buyers. The picture
gave rise to a hot discussion when exhibited, the old school of painters denouncing such slavish
imitation of nature. As the negative photographic process had just then been introduced in
America, I had the picture photographed, and a friend took a print of it to the head of the
old school, without any explanation. My antagonist and critic looked at it carefully and exclaimed,
"What is the use of Stillman making his pre-Raphaelite studies when we can get such photographs
from nature as this!" As I had my brother's generosity to fall back on, I was not obliged to
sell, and the picture remained in my studio for two or three years. Later Agassiz saw it and
was so delighted with its botany that I decided to give it to him; but when a fellow painter
offered--when I was leaving again for Europe--to "raffle it off," I allowed him to do so, and
he appropriated the proceeds. I had made a rule of giving the pictures which were not sold
in the exhibition to the person who had shown the finest appreciation of them,--a habit which
did not contribute to pecuniary success, but which helped my amour propre, and I have always
regretted not having sent that picture to Agassiz, who, in later years, became one of my best
friends.

CHAPTER IX

SPIRITISM

During the subsequent winter the subject of spiritism occupied the world of the curious and
the thoughtful a good deal; and, with my brother Paul, who was a disciple of Swedenborg, I
took every occasion that offered to investigate it. Many of my friends were interested in it,
and I soon became convinced that it was not the foolish delusion which the scientific world
and most religious people pronounced it. In fact, if there be any basis of reality in the phenomena,
it is hard to conceive a subject of such vital importance as the determination of the actuality
of an individual existence after the physical death. It had always been evident to me that
the immense majority of men had no real belief in human immortality, all their pursuits and
acquisitions being of a purely material character. My own convictions were ingrained and immovable,
but a physical demonstration of their verity seemed to me an eminently desirable result, if
attainable, and I entered into the investigation with earnestness and all my patience. Society
was largely occupied by the table-tippings and the "rappings." "Circles" were forming amongst
all classes, and the mediums became an important element in the world of New York. I very soon
came to the conclusion that the professional, paid mediums were, in many cases, the worst kind
of impostors, and, in all cases, so far as any intellectual evidence was concerned, of an absurd
triviality. Even in the private circles, where no trace of fraud could be suspected, the good
faith of all entering them being assured, I found sometimes such extraordinary credulity that
the subject would have been offensive to any dispassionate investigator who was not, like myself,
determined to get to the bottom of it. The majority of the persons who entered into a circle
were ready to believe any extraordinary thing that came to them, and the inanity of the general
proceedings, even when fraud was excluded, was sufficient to indispose serious people to take
part in them. To me the question had such vital importance that I was determined that neither
fraud nor the inconsequent nature of the pretended communications should dissuade me from the
most thorough investigation possible.

This investigation lasted several years, and included, to greater or less extent, every form
of psychological and physical phenomenon which was offered by spiritism. My experience with
the professional mediums was such that I soon ceased to pay any attention to them, finding
that, what with the frivolity of their utterances and the evident imposture which, in the case
of some of them, invariably marked the display of their powers, the sittings were simply farcical;
nor did I ever find, in the doings of the mediums, or in the revelations of the regular spiritistic
circles (and I sat in the most important one of them, that over which Judge Edmonds presided,
during the two winters) in which no paid medium took part, anything which was not, or could
not have been, imposture.

The reason is simple. The professional medium, paid to display certain powers, which are in
any case extremely uncertain in their response to the call for them, invariably begins to imitate
them when they fail. The mediums are invariably persons of an inferior order of intellect,
avid of notoriety, and mostly mercenary, so that the results of the consultations with them
were almost sufficient to deter serious-minded people from dealing with them a second time,
while the people who formed the regular circles and had made a sect with a devotional character
in it, rapidly degenerated into a credulity and materialism which were more discouraging than
the most arid skepticism. Physical phenomena which met every demand for absolute guarantee
of their genuineness, were very rare, and to meet with them required great patience and persistence,
while the scientific student, in the habit of dealing with experiments that had definite results,
obeying known or conjectured laws, if entering into an investigation which met at the threshold
a frivolous, and possibly fraudulent, "manifestation," threw up the subject, the more readily
that in general the student of physical science has no sympathy with psychical research.

Recognizing the correctness of this attitude and the unreliability as well as the utter want
of essential importance in the physical manifestations and the invariable inconsequence and
silliness of the intellectual results, I withdrew entirely from circles in which mediums took
part or in which physical phenomena were sought for, and limited my investigations to the cases
in which the good faith of all the company was unquestionable, and the investigation conducted
in privacy and sincerity. Here, of course, there was still great uncertainty, and often the
most curious triviality and low intelligence, but we were able to check the possible tendency
to the simulation of the supra-normal activity. And even so the character of the "manifestation"
was generally so trivial and opposed to all preconceived ideas of spiritual intelligence as
to justify the conclusion that the departed had left their wits behind them, so that even in
those "circles" which included only personal friends and individuals of unquestionable sincerity
the results rarely had any intellectual importance. And I came to the conclusion that that
form of the phenomena which alone gave any intellectual result, i.e. which manifested ideas
in any way transcending the commonplace capacities of commonplace minds, had nothing in common
with the physical manifestations, but seemed rather to consist in an exaltation of the intellectual
powers of the subject, so that the evidence of any supra-normal power was rather moral than
scientific, and had value only according to the relation between the subject and the hearer,
and therefore no determinable value to physical science.

The most remarkable of the subjects of this character with whom I became acquainted, which
was during the later years of this study, was Mrs. H.K. Brown, the wife of our ablest sculptor
of that day. Mrs. Brown was, apart from the peculiar powers she possessed, one of the most
remarkable women I have ever known, both morally and intellectually, and the peculiar mental
powers she manifested were well known to all the large and thoughtful circle of friends which
gathered round her. No physical "manifestation" took place in her presence, and we never "sat"
as a "circle," but her telepathic and thought-reading powers in ordinary social intercourse
were most surprising. She answered readily any questions proposed in the minds of her interlocutors,
often even before they were completely formed, and she possessed the power attributed to Zschokke,
of reading, or seeing, past events in the lives of those who were placed en rapport with her.
Bryant, the poet, assured me that she had recounted to him events in his past life not known
to any living person except himself, and I had, myself, the evidence that in her presence there
was nothing in my past life beyond her perception. On simple contact with a letter from an
unknown person she gave me the most remarkable analysis of the character of the writer, and
though this evidence is always open to criticism, the disclosures she made were sometimes surprising.
I gave her one day a letter of Ruskin without disclosing the authorship, and in the course
of a long analysis she said that the writer was not married, to which I replied that in this
she was mistaken, and she rejoined, "Then he ought not to be." At that time Mr. and Mrs. Ruskin
were, so far as I knew, living together, and no rumor of their incompatibility had come about.

Mrs. Brown explained the possession of her occult powers by a voice in the manner of Socrates's
demon, which, she said, was always present with her, and which she recognized as entirely foreign
to her. She repeated what she heard, word for word as the words came, hesitating and sometimes
leaving a sentence incomplete, not hearing the sequence. When she asked who was speaking to
her, she received only the reply, "We are spirit," and no indication of personality was ever
offered. On one occasion, when Mr. and Mrs. Brown were on a fishing trip into the wild parts
of New York State, and, returning, were on their way to the railway station, the wheel of their
wagon broke and they had to go to a blacksmith on the road to have it repaired. She said to
her husband that they would lose the train, to which the voice replied that they would be in
time, for the train was late and they would arrive with a minute to spare. And in fact as they
drew up at the station the train came in sight and they had a minute to spare. There were many
such instances in which Mrs. Brown showed to the circle of her acquaintances, which was large
and included many of the most intellectual minds of the artistic and literary world whose centre
was New York, the possession of powers "not dreamed of in our philosophy," but, as she carefully
avoided notoriety, they never came under public notice. Her husband implicitly and always followed
the directions given her through her demon.

In one of the social gatherings which grew out of the study of spiritism was a lady who, like
myself, was a convinced believer in the reality of the phenomena, but skeptical as to the value
and personal origin of the communications made in the "circles." Her daughter, a child of seven,
was in fact a hypnotic clairvoyant of singular lucidity, and my brother, Dr. Jacob Stillman,
obtained from the mother permission to have a private séance, only the mother and child, the
doctor, and myself being present. I hypnotized the girl Fanny, and when she opened her eyes
in the hypnotic state the doctor made the usual tests for coma, exposing the eyes to the sudden
glare of a brilliant light, sticking pins into her flesh, and so forth, and pronounced the
coma absolute when, as he stuck a pin in her arm, she spoke, saying, "I wouldn't do that, it
might hurt Fanny!" I asked if she felt it, and she replied, "She does not feel it now, but
she might when she wakes." "But who are you?" I asked. She replied, "Oh, don't you know? I
am Dora." The mother informed us that a young playmate of Fanny's, whose name was Dora Greenleaf,
had died some months previously, and that the impersonation through Fanny was always in that name.

The physical test being declared conclusive by the doctor, I asked "Dora" to tell me if there
was any spirit friend of ours present, to which she replied that there was a lady there who
gave her name as "Kate," and whom she described in terms sufficiently correct to indicate a
deceased cousin whose name was Catherine, familiarly called Kate in the family, and this was
followed by the names and description of other relatives, all correct as far as names and such
identification could go; but to this kind of demonstration I could never attach any importance
as to personality, which is indeed a point as to which I have found that reliance can rarely
be placed on affirmation, and as to which absolute proof can scarcely be given. As in the case
of Mrs. Brown, she replied with lucidity and promptness to every interrogation, and I then
began a series of mental questions, being sure at least that the child could not draw from
the question matter for an indicated reply. She replied promptly to my questions, and from
time to time I explained to my brother what had been asked, that he might follow the conversation.
After several relatives had been named, I asked if our brother Alfred was there, to which she
instantly replied, "There is a gentleman sitting on the corner of the table by you who says
his name is Alfred." The opportunity then occurred to me of asking a "test question," which
was, "If Alfred is here, will he tell me when he last saw Harvey?" The relevance of this question
will appear from the fact that they were together on the steamer whose boiler burst on the
Mississippi, killing my brother and causing injury to the cousin such that he committed suicide
a month later. The reply was, "He says he does not remember." At this I remarked guardedly
to the doctor, "I asked Alfred when he last saw Harvey, and he replies that he doesn't remember,
but he must have seen him on board the boat." To this she instantly replied, with an explosive
laugh, "He says that if he did it was all blown out of him!" I will only comment on this reply,
that it was quite in accordance with the character of my brother to joke on the most serious
subjects--he was an inveterate joker.

At this juncture, and while we discussed the strange reply, Fanny exclaimed, "There is a young
gentleman coming through the window; he says his name is Harry--no," she added, holding her
ear forward in the direction she indicated as if to hear better, "not Harry, Harvey." I then
asked, "If Harvey is here, will he tell me if he was with me in Paris, last winter?" She replied,
"Yes, he says he was with you in Paris, and that he saw you in the house where you lived with
Mrs. Fox--no, not Fox, Coxe--Mrs. Coxe--and he asks if you remember magnetizing Mrs. Coxe at
the restaurant?" Mrs. Coxe, as I have said previously, was the lady from Alabama whose acquaintance,
as well as that of her husband and their young daughter, I had made when traveling with them
through Belgium, on my way to Hungary, and whom Mr. Coxe, when he returned on business to America,
left under my protection for the winter. Mrs. Coxe was subject to violent and sudden headaches,
which came without warning, and for which during our trip on the Meuse I had once hypnotized
her successfully. This led to my being called on subsequently so often that she became an easy
subject, and the headaches became less and less frequent and violent. I have before said that
it was our custom on Sunday to dine together at some one of the restaurants, and on one of
these occasions the headache came on as we sat at the table and I hypnotized her across the
table, by simple exertion of my will without passes, and it passed off. The incident was not
in my mind, and had, not to cause gossip, never been mentioned by me to any one; my mind was
acting at the moment in quite a different direction, and if my thought gave any clue to the
answers of Fanny, it would have been in another direction that she would have looked. What
was singular and accounted for by no evident circumstance was the manner of the child in listening
for the names which she had clearly heard incorrectly--Harry for Harvey, and Fox for Coxe,
and after holding her ear forward as would one who heard imperfectly something said to him.
No forethought or attempt at deception on the part of a child of seven under the eye of her
mother, who was a woman of singular sincerity of character, can be admitted to account for
these details in the dialogue, conducted on my part, be it remembered, entirely by mental inquiries.

The evident fatigue of the child put an end to the séance. Neither the mother nor Fanny knew
at that time anything of my relatives, our acquaintance being then of recent date, but our
intimacy with the family in after years enables me to say that any attempt at deception is
out of the question. Fanny died not long after of consumption, as did the mother and two other
children, one of whom, an elder sister, had been influenced in the same manner as Miss A.,
who will be mentioned later, but had never consented to take part in the manifestations, which
she regarded with great repugnance. While sitting with us en petit comité, she used sometimes
to be seized with a convulsive and involuntary effort of her hand to write, but she always
refused to submit to the influence. Fanny in her normal state showed no indications of mediumistic
powers, nor did the mother.

During the investigation, we heard of a remarkable case in the circle of our own acquaintance
which had been kept from public knowledge as far as possible by the aversion to publicity of
the father of the subject, my brother's chief foreman. She was a girl of fourteen, of a timid
and nervous organization, who had suffered great annoyance by the persistence of the rappings
about her wherever she might be; at first in her bedroom, but finally to her great dismay in
the class-rooms of the primary public school of New York, in which she held the position of
assistant teacher and where she conducted the recitations. The rappings caused such fright
amongst the school children that she was menaced with dismissal if they did not cease. She
implored the agency which was responsible for the sounds to leave her alone at school and do
what seemed best to it at home, and the rappings did actually cease at school. As her father
was a man well-to-do in circumstances and annoyed by the occurrence, he silenced the gossip
about the matter as well as he could, and gave an inflexible denial to the request for a séance
which came from friends who by chance heard of it. My brother Paul, who was a fellow-foreman
in the iron works, got permission, however, for a séance at which he and I only were to be
present with the girl. The phenomena were so strange that I got permission for a repetition
at which only my brother Jacob and myself were present, and we preserved the notes of what passed.

Miss A., as I shall call her, told us in detail the development of the case. After having been
for some time troubled by the rappings she began to feel involuntary motions in her right hand
which increased to constantly recurring violent exercise of the muscles, when it occurred to
her from the character of the motions that the hand wanted a pencil to write and she laid paper
and a pencil on the table. Her hand then took possession of the pencil and began to scrawl
aimlessly over the paper until, after the interval of many days, the agency seemed to have
sufficient control over the muscles to form legible letters. This was a source of amusement
to her, and, at the time we made our entry into the investigation, the hand wrote legibly and
neatly in reply to mental, i.e. unspoken, questions, she having no control of the muscles so
long as the "influence," which was the name she applied to whatever it might be, chose to use
it. She knew what was written only when the writing was finished and she read it, as we did;
and the writing was, as we found by experiment, quite as regular and well formed when her eyes
were bandaged as when she was looking at her work. As a further test of the involuntary character
of this we not only tried her with her eyes bandaged, but by my brother talking with her from
one side of the table, while she was writing in reply to my mental questions on the other;
she talked with him on one subject at the same moment in which she wrote to me on another.

In what was given under these circumstances she wrote for us the replies in conversations with
what purported to be the spirits of three deceased relatives, the wife of my brother, my brother
Alfred, and cousin Harvey, who had for several years been my most intimate and beloved friend;
and the handwriting of the three series of communication was a better imitation of their writing
than I, knowing it, could have produced. That of my sister-in-law I was not so familiar with,
though my brother recognized it as that of his wife, but that of our brother was a perfect
reproduction down to the smallest accidents, and that which was given as the responses of my
cousin equally so, and executed with a rapidity of which I was incapable--a large scrawling
hand, that of our brother being of a character entirely opposed, slowly and laboriously formed,
with occasional omissions of the last line of a final n, quite common in his writing. The girl
had never known either of these relatives. One of the questions I asked when conversing with
Harvey was, "Will you tell me how you died?" to which the only reply was a fixed stare on the
part of Miss A., though every other question was answered, by pantomime, affirmative or negative
signs, or writing, and always in writing when it was insisted on. Miss A.'s pantomimic powers
in this state exceeded anything I have ever seen in professional pantomime, and she employed
them largely.

At the conclusion of the questions and replies with Harvey, I asked if he had seen old Turner,
the landscape painter, since his death, which had taken place not very long before. The reply
was "Yes," and I then asked what he was doing, the reply being a pantomime of painting. I then
asked if Harvey could bring Turner there, to which the reply was, "I do not know; I will go
and see," upon which Miss A. said, "This influence is going away--it is gone;" and after a
short pause added, "There is another influence coming, in that direction," pointing over her
left shoulder. "I don't like it," and she shuddered slightly, but presently sat up in her chair
with a most extraordinary personation of the old painter in manner, in the look out from under
the brow and the pose of the head. It was as if the ghost of Turner, as I had seen him at Griffiths's,
sat in the chair, and it made my flesh creep to the very tips of my fingers, as if a spirit
sat before me. Miss A. exclaimed, "This influence has taken complete possession of me, as none
of the others did. I am obliged to do what it wants me to." I asked if Turner would write his
name for me, to which she replied by a sharp, decided negative sign. I then asked if he would
give me some advice about my painting, remembering Turner's kindly invitation and manner when
I saw him. This proposition was met by the same decided negative, accompanied by the fixed
and sardonic stare which the girl had put on at the coming of the new influence. This disconcerted
me, and I then explained to my brother what had been going on, as, the questions being mental,
he had no clue to the pantomime. I said that as an influence which purported to be Turner was
present, and refused to answer any questions, I supposed there was nothing more to be done.

But Miss A. still sat unmoved and helpless, so we waited. Presently she remarked that the influence
wanted her to do something, she knew not what, only that she had to get up and go across the
room, which she did with the feeble step of an old man. She crossed the room and took down
from the wall a colored French lithograph, and, coming to me, laid it on the table before me,
and by gesture called my attention to it. She then went through the pantomime of stretching
a sheet of paper on a drawing-board, then that of sharpening a lead pencil, following it up
by tracing the outlines of the subject in the lithograph. Then followed in similar pantomime
the choosing of a water-color pencil, noting carefully the necessary fineness of the point,
and then the washing-in of a drawing, broadly. Miss A. seemed much amused by all this, but
as she knew nothing of drawing she understood nothing of it. Then with the pencil and her pocket
handkerchief she began taking out the lights, "rubbing-out," as the technical term is. This
seemed to me so contrary to what I conceived to be the execution of Turner that I interrupted
with the question, "Do you mean to say that Turner rubbed out his lights?" to which she gave
the affirmative sign. I asked further if in a drawing which I then had in my mind, the well-known
"Llanthony Abbey," the central passage of sunlight and shadow through rain was done in that
way, and she again gave the affirmative reply, emphatically. I was so firmly convinced to the
contrary that I was now persuaded that there was a simulation of personality, such as was generally
the case with the public mediums, and I said to my brother, who had not heard any of my questions,
that this was another humbug, and then repeated what had passed, saying that Turner could not
have worked in that way. After this I did not care to follow the conversation further.

My object in maintaining the mental questioning was, of course, to prevent Miss A. from getting
any clue to the meaning of the questions, and I carried the precaution so far as not to look
at her while forming the questions in my mind. I also ascertained that she knew nothing of
drawing, or of Turner; but while I could not resist the evidence of a mental activity absolutely
independent of that of Miss A., I was convinced that there was no question of actual identity.
Both the doctor and I were, however, satisfied that on the part of Miss A. there was no attempt
at deception, and that the phenomenon, whatever might be the case as to identity, was a genuine
manifestation of an intelligence independent of that of the girl. Six weeks later I sailed
for England, and, on arriving in London, I went at once to see Ruskin, and told him the whole
story. He declared the contrariness manifested by the medium to be entirely characteristic
of Turner, and had the drawing in question down for examination. We scrutinized it closely,
and both recognized beyond dispute that the drawing had been executed in the way that Miss
A. indicated. Ruskin advised me to send an account of the affair to the "Cornhill," which I
did; but it was rejected, as might have been expected in the state of public opinion at that
time, and I can easily imagine Thackeray putting it into the basket in a rage.

I offer no interpretation of the facts which I have here recorded, but I have no hesitation
in saying that they completed and fixed my conviction of the existence of invisible and independent
intelligences to which the phenomena were due. The question of the identity of these intelligences--which
we may, without prejudging their nature, leaving that to be determined by more complete experiences,
consider disembodied--with the persons in the flesh whose names they use, is one on which I
have great difficulty in forming a conclusion, though, as a rule, my experience in "circles"
has been that the imposture was too gross to deceive a person of ordinary intellectual power.
The two cases which I have related in the foregoing pages are the only ones in which I have
ever been able to find the color of an identification, and of the probability of this I leave
the reader to judge. More on the internal than on the external evidence, I consider the probability
in the two cases narrated to be in favor of the identity; beyond that I am unwilling to go.

Of the actuality of a disembodied and individual being which, for want of more intelligence
of its nature, we call a "spirit," I have no more doubt than I have of my own embodied and
individual existence. If, to my philosophic and skeptical critics, this is an indication of
intellectual weakness, and excites contempt of my faculties, I cannot help it. I will be honest
with myself and the world, have the courage of my convictions, and take the consequences; and
I am of the opinion that, if all the cultivated minds which, having studied the subject, agree
with me in my conclusions were to be as frank as I am, there would be a large body of witnesses
in accord with me. If the inference of a disembodied intelligence, as the source of such phenomena,
is difficult of acceptation, that of fraud and collusion is inadmissible, and that of hallucination
more difficult than that of the spiritual origin. Of the different hypotheses, then, I take
that which seems the most satisfactory one in view of the ascertained facts. But "seeing is
believing," and I can fully appreciate the incredulity of reasonable minds as to phenomena
which are not in line with our ordinary experience of life, and which, at the same time, are
of extreme rarity, and require, for their investigation and actual observation, great patience
and the sacrifice of much time and the exercise of much tolerance, surrounded, as the subject
is, by gross charlatanry and fraud. But if the beginnings of physical life are worth the years
of patient study which science has accorded them, I must believe that the final issue of it
is worth the time and study needed to arrive at such results as would, I am convinced, finally
crown them. If it were worth while, I could, I am persuaded, define, a priori, the lines of
investigation along which we should move, but each investigator will choose his own route,
and better so.

Two conclusions I draw from my investigations as immovably established, so far as I am concerned.
The first is that there are about us, and with certain facilities for making themselves understood
by us, spiritual individualities; and, second, that the human being possesses spiritual senses,
parallel with the physical, by which it sees what the physical sense cannot see, and hears
what is inaudible to the physical ear. And my general and, I think, logical conclusion is that
the spiritual senses appertain to a spiritual body which survives the death of the physical.

CHAPTER X

LIFE IN THE WILDERNESS

Under the stimulus, in part, of the desire for something out of the ordinary line of subject
for pictures, and in part from the hope that going into the "desert" might quicken the spiritual
faculties so tantalized by the experience of the circles, I decided to pass the next summer
in the great primeval forest in the northern part of New York State, known as the Adirondack
wilderness. It was then little known or visited; a few sportsmen and anglers had penetrated
it, but for the most part it was known only to the lumberers. Here and there, at intervals
of ten to twenty miles, there were log houses, some of which gave hospitality in the summer
to the sportsmen, and in the winter to the "loggers" who worked for the great lumber companies.
It was a tract of a hundred miles, more or less, across, mainly unbroken wildwood, cut up by
rapid rivers, impossible of navigation, otherwise than by canoes and light skiffs which could
be carried from one sheet of water to another on the backs of the woodsmen, around the cascades,
and over tracts of intervening land through virgin forests, without roads, and, to a large
extent, without paths. I hoped here to find new subjects for art, spiritual freedom, and a
closer contact with the spiritual world--something beyond the material existence. I was ignorant
of the fact that art does not depend on a subject, nor spiritual life on isolation from the
rest of humanity, and I found, what a correct philosophy would have before told me, nature
with no suggestion of art, and the dullest form of intellectual or spiritual existence.

One of my artist friends--S.R. Gifford, landscape painter, like myself on the search for new
subjects--had been, the year before, to the Saranac Lakes, and gave me the clue to the labyrinth,
and I found on Upper Saranac Lake a log cabin, inhabited by a farmer whose family consisted
of a wife, a son, and a daughter. There I enjoyed a backwoods hospitality at the cost of two
dollars a week for board and lodging, and passed the whole summer, finding a subject near the
cabin, at which I painted assiduously for nearly three months. I passed the whole day in the
open air, wore no hat, and only cloth shoes, hoping that thus the spiritual life would have
easier access to me. I carried no gun, and held the lives of beast and bird sacred, but I drew
the line at fishing, and my rod and fly-book provided in a large degree the food of the household;
for trout swarmed. I caught in an hour, during that summer, in a stream where there has not
been a trout for years, as large a string as I could carry a mile. All the time that I was
not painting I was in the boat on the lake, or wandering in the forest.

My quest was an illusion. The humanity of the backwoods was on a lower level than that of a
New England village--more material if less worldly; the men got intoxicated, and some of the
women--nothing less like an apostle could I have found in the streets of New York. I saw one
day a hunter who had come into the woods with a motive in some degree like mine--impatience
of the restraints and burdens of civilization, and pure love of solitude. He had become, not
bestialized, like most of the men I saw, but animalized--he had drifted back into the condition
of his dog, with his higher intellect inert. He had built himself a cabin in the depth of the
woods, and there he lived in the most complete isolation from human society he could attain.
He interested me greatly, and as he stopped for the night at the cabin where I was living,
we had considerable conversation. He cared nothing for books, but enjoyed nature, and only
hunted in order to live, respecting the lives of his fellow-creatures within that limit. He
only went to the "settlements" when he needed supplies, abstained from alcoholic drinks, the
great enemy of the backwoodsman, and was happy in his solitude. As he was the first man I had
ever met who had attempted the solution of the problem which so interested me,--the effect
of solitude on the healthy intellect,--I encouraged him to talk, which he was inclined to do
when he found that there was a real sympathy between us on this question.

He seemed to have no desire for companionship, but there was nothing morose or misanthropic
in his love of seclusion, and I soon saw that, though he had no care for intellectual growth
and no longing for books, he thought a good deal in his own way, and that, mingled with his
limited thinking and tranquil emotion before nature, there was a large element of spiritual
activity, and this had kept him mentally alive. He had heard of spiritism, and his own experience
led him to acceptance of its reality. In his solitary life, in the unbroken silence which reigned
around him, he heard mysterious voices, and only the year before he had heard one say that
he was wanted at home. He paid no attention to it, thinking it only an illusion, but, after
an interval, it was repeated so distinctly that he packed his knapsack, took his dog, and went
out with the intention of going home. On the way he met a messenger sent after him, who told
him that his brother had met with an accident which disabled him from all work, and begged
him to come to his assistance. The voice had come to him at the time of the accident. As a
rule, however, the voices seemed vagarious, and he attached no importance to them, except as
phenomena which interested him slightly. There was nothing flighty about him, no indication
of monomania--he reasoned well, but from the point of view of a man who has had only an elementary
education, knowing nothing of philosophy; he had no religious crotchets, and apparently thought
little or not at all on religious matters--was, in fine, a natural and healthy man, a despiser
of alcohol, satisfied with the moment he lived in, and giving no consideration to that which
would come after. He had a great contempt for his fellow woodsmen and avoided contact with them.

