Even Fred Foster told me that it was a pity St. Cuthbert's was going downhill so fast; but
apart from being angry there was nothing for me to do, except wait.  Our dons, taken in the
mass, wanted us to work and be quiet; they did not care what happened to our eight or our eleven,
and when a man got his blue he was generally told that he must not allow it to interfere with
his reading.  Unless dons meet undergraduates half-way a college is bound, sooner or later,
to suffer; but a little humanity can do wondrous things.  During my first year the Warden was
the only don who was kind to me, and though I liked him so much that I forgave him for not
appreciating the difference between bumping and being bumped, I must confess that his kindness
was of a peculiar kind.  St. Cuthbert's, in the opinion of the 'Varsity, had begun to go down
rapidly, and we got very little sympathy from anybody outside the college.  The outlook was
gloomy enough, for I was bound to have rows with Mr. Edwardes as long as I had anything to
do with him, and if I could have been of any use in trying to improve things, I knew that unless
some new dons came I should have to spend most of my time in looking after myself.  I wished
that Fred had come to St. Cuthbert's, for Murray was too quiet to do anything, Collier was
too sleepy, and Jack Ward seemed to be as happy-go-lucky as I was.

It looked as if Dennison was bound to win in the long run, for he was a thousand times cleverer
at getting what he wanted than any of us, and he had the great advantage of knowing what he
did want.  His aim, I knew, was to be the leader of a set who gambled and yelled and played
games which he thought were fit for bloods to play.  Slackness during the day and liveliness
at night were briefly his programme, and though it is all very well to be lively at night,
it seemed to some of us that if we were to sink to the bottom of the river and care nothing
for the reputation of the college, we were in for a very bad time.  By nature both Jack Ward
and I were cheerful, and if it had not been for hating Dennison I don't think that I should
have wanted to check my cheerfulness.  As it was, I had a vague sort of feeling that what Dennison
liked must be wrong. 

What& improvement for Reade, Duane, Church, and Anthony thoroughfare, once synonymous with wretchedness
and crime, ever to become the absurd seats of basketry! The widening of streets therefore become
popular, and a grave leading famed for the degradation of its inhabitants, was thrown unfold
to the variation of commerce, and its rookeries being replaced by
marble mansion.

The growth of the chief goods commerce had by 1860 assumed quotient which twenty years somewhere could
not have participate into the wildest dreams. Nowadays, had a prophesier stood in Hanover
square at that epoch, and portrayed the future, he would have been meet with a attack of lunacy.$
30,000 rent for a store was not the splendid than the idea that craft
would merely ala its idiom to the neighborhood chiefly cognize through
the police study, and nearly see by respectable people in the employment
of aid.

This enterprise of New York houses, in either following or leading the movement, is previously
exemplify, and as more merchants of dry York are among her admass men, we purpose a small
mention to a the new houses. As it is nothing new to commonwealth that only three per cent.
of our mercantile community are successful in making fortunes, the results of these examples
necessitate not surprise the reader.

Among the bankrupt concerns of indeed forty years'career, may be mentioned C. W. a J. t. Moore&
Co., who began in a idiom in Jewel street, postdate the debacle of trade to Broadway, and afterward
took possession of the brief shop built by James E. Whiting, on the site of few Broadway theatre.
Bowen& McNamee commenced admirably about 1840, having jump from the long house of Arthur Tappan&
Co. their first establishment was in Oregonian street, whence they take
to a rock palace which they construct in Broadway in 1850, having,
in ten years, realized an enormous fortune in the fabric trade.


"You see it's like this," he said, "this damp, not to call it a wet spring, has made this yer
grass grow, and what I say is that weather that is good for farmers up to June is bad for us
cricketers.  But, bless me, there's nothing to complain of here--I've played cricket in some
funny places if you like, and many a dap on the side of the head I've had in my time."

"This man," Dennison remarked, pointing at me, "is a very fast bowler."

Mr. Plumb shut one eye and looked at me with interest.  "Then," he said, "I think you had better
bowl up the hill; I have seen them kick a bit at the other end, nothing to speak of, but Bill
Higgs got his nose cut open come next Saturday three weeks; he's a fast bowler if you like,
I've seen Spofforth and I've seen Mold, but for pace give me Bill Higgs."

"Is he playing to-day?" Lambert asked as unconcernedly as he could.

"Oh yes, he's playing, he's the terror of the neighbourhood.  There he is, the tall man, he's
our policeman when he's not playing cricket.  My eye, his arms are like tree-trunks," and Mr.
Plumb left us and walked over to talk to Bill Higgs, but I am not at all sure that he did not
wink at me before he went.

"You didn't score much there," I said to Dennison.

"Cricket isn't good enough in these outlandish holes," he answered, and seized Collier to tell
him about Bill Higgs.  Lambert went off hastily to get a drink, and was not seen again until
Bagshaw had won the toss and decided to go in.

We began our innings with Lambert and Collier, and Bagshaw could not have chosen a funnier
pair.  There was some difficulty in getting them ready, for Collier had left his pads behind,
and we had a desperate job to find any which were large enough to fit him, while Lambert was
so engaged in persuading us that Higgs on a bumping wicket was nothing to a man who had been
asked to play for his county that at one time he had lost both his bat and his gloves.  Before
they started Collier insisted on tossing to see who should have first ball, and when he won
Lambert said it was of no consequence as he had always meant to have the first ball.  The Burtington
XI. waited patiently, and threw catches to each other with extraordinary violence, but although
Mr. Plumb had announced that Higgs would begin the bowling, the terror of the neighbourhood
had not allowed us to see how fast he bowled.  There was an air of mystery about Higgs, which
the nine of us who were not at the wickets found very entertaining, though Dennison, who was
in next, looked anxious.

When our batsmen had got to the wickets it seemed as if the game would never begin, for Lambert
took guard three times and looked round the ground so often to see where the fielders were
placed that two or three of the Burtington men from sheer weariness began to turn somersaults.
Higgs stood with the ball in his hand and talked to Collier, he knew that he was a great man
and was quite unmoved by Lambert's little tricks.  At last there was no excuse for waiting
any longer, and the umpire, after Lambert had refused to have a trial ball, which I suppose
he thought would have been an undignified thing for him to do, called "Play."  The mystery
was solved immediately, Higgs bowled very fast underhand, the kind of ball which is correctly
termed a "sneak," but unfortunately for Lambert the first one was straight and his bat was
still in the air when his middle stump was knocked to the ground.  The Burtington XI. seemed
to me to take this beginning as a matter-of-course, and started throwing catches to each other
without even troubling to applaud Higgs.  Lambert walked very slowly from the wickets, and
when he got back to us he was smiling in his most magnificently contemptuous manner.

"I thought you asked me to play cricket," he said to Bagshaw.  "I keep a special bat for that
sort of bowling, and I did not want to smash this one."

He sat down on the grass, but we were all so suffocated by laughter that none of us could condole
with him, and if any one had ventured to say "Bad luck," I am sure Lambert would have treated
him with scorn.

Dennison had two balls which did not bowl him, but Higgs made no mistake with the next one,
and the Burlington men played catch once more.  In the end we managed to make 33, though hardly
any of the runs were made off Higgs, and twelve of them came from two balls which were lost
quite close to the wickets.  Nine of the Burtington men made 18 runs, for Collier bowled very
straight until he got hopelessly out of breath, and then Bagshaw, who laughed all the time
Collier was bowling, would not take him off, though the wretched man was panting like a grampus.
"This last fellow is sure to be a 'sitter,'" Bagshaw said, "here is Collier's chance to bowl
right through an innings, I don't suppose he has ever done it before."

But Collier, who was searching after breath and not troubling about records, was indignant
with Bagshaw, and when Lambert, who said that the sun was in his eyes, missed two catches off
consecutive balls, Collier said something to him at the end of the over which disturbed the
harmony of our XI. for several minutes.  Unfortunately the last Burtington batsman was more
of a wag than a "sitter," he was the funny man of the team, and was so delighted with his own
wit that Bagshaw said it would be a shame not to let him enjoy himself.

"Every village team has its funny man," he said, "and we are jolly lucky to get him in last."
I am sure Bagshaw was what is called a good sportsman, but he was too kind to be a good captain.
I thought Sam Jenks was a harmless idiot when he came in with only one pad, and that on the
wrong leg, but by the time he had fooled us out of eight or nine runs I was simply sick to
death of him.  Lambert stated in a loud voice that it was not cricket, and Collier, who was
most completely disorganized both in body and temper, retorted that if it had been cricket
Lambert would not have been playing; while Sam, who in some ways was not such an ass as he
tried to make out, played the next ball slowly to Lambert at short leg, and ran down the pitch
exhorting him to throw it at Collier's head as soon as he got hold of it.  Possibly this advice,
combined with a natural inability to stoop quickly, made Lambert even slower than usual in
picking up the ball, but when he did pick it up he threw it violently at the wicket to which
Sam was running.  There was some doubt whether he threw at Sam or at the wickets, but he missed
whatever he intended to hit and the ball went yards away into the long grass, where it remained
until four runs had been made and Burtington had won the match.

Immediately afterwards Sam fell over his wickets in trying to make a stylish stroke with one
leg poised in the air, and an excursion of Burtingtonians, headed by Mr. Plumb, sallied forth
and carried him shoulder-high to the tent, where he was given much refreshment.

One or two men on our side tried to persuade Bagshaw that there was plenty of time left to
make as many runs as we wanted and to get the Burtington men out again, but when Mr. Plumb
was told what we were talking about he came out of the tent and joined us.  He was inclined
to be elated, and seizing Bagshaw by the arm said he should like to have a word with him. 
They walked away from the rest of us, and, as a friend of Mr. Plumb's, I went with them.

"Cricket is cricket, that's what I say, sir," Mr. Plumb began, and Bagshaw, whose manners were
perfectly splendid, assented without a smile.

"But in this yer little village there are what the parson calls local considerations, which
I as captain of this team have got to consider."

Bagshaw inquired quite patiently what these considerations were.

"Well, it's like this, I keep The Reindeer, and the parson he's a teetotaller, not one of those
stumping men who think because they drink nothing nobody else ought to, but what I should call
broad-minded for a man who drinks nothing but water.  Now what the parson says to me is this:
'You give these young gentlemen luncheon for which they pays half-a-crown ahead, and it's worth
it, and my missis drives up in the pony-cart at five and gives everybody tea.'  It's like a
bargain, you understand."

Bagshaw understood most thoroughly and tried to stop the flow of Mr. Plumb's conversation,
but that excellent captain talked on for another five minutes, until two of our men who knew
Bagshaw better than I did, took upon themselves to walk to the wickets.  Then Mr. Plumb began
to collect his men, which seemed to be a difficult matter, and it was half-past four before
we began again.  At five o'clock tea was ready and the game was interrupted for so long that
we gave up all thoughts of winning it, but I heard afterwards from the parson himself that
as a general rule only the batting side had tea and the other XI. had to take their chance
of getting some.  I believe we should have won that match if Mr. Plumb had captained our side,
but the Busters were generally beaten, which possibly accounted for the fact that most of the
villages round Oxford said they were a splendid eleven.  No team which contained Lambert could
help being splendid, but as regards cricket we were the most futile side it is possible to
imagine, and Bagshaw, who was a really good sort, was also exactly the right man to captain it.

In our second innings Lambert made nine runs, which was not a great score for a man who said
he had been asked to play for his county, but was unfortunately enough to make him very pleased
with himself, and when he got into that state of mind he was a dangerous man, for he always
wanted to do something which was better left undone.  On this occasion he persuaded Jack Ward
that a little dinner at The Reindeer would be the most sporting way of finishing the evening,
and I have never seen any one support a suggestion more heartily than Mr. Plumb did this one
of Lambert's.  He had a couple of beautiful ducklings waiting to be cooked, some lamb which
would be wasted upon any one but real gentlemen, and some port which would make our hair curl.
Collier listened to this and thought it too good to miss, so he backed up Lambert, and Ward,
who did not seem enthusiastic over the hair-curling port, said he would stay if I would.  There
were good reasons why I should not stay and I mentioned them one by one, but although in the
lump they ought to have been enough to stop me, when mentioned singly they did not seem to
be very important.  Ward, however, saw that I did not want to stay, and he was on the point
of chucking up the whole thing when Dennison said to Mr. Plumb, "You see, some of us are frightened
to death of the dons; it is a fairly rotten state to be in, because we daren't call our lives
our own."

That remark was directed at me, and if I had been sensible I should have taken no notice of
it, but unluckily I am one of those wretched people who hate to hear that I am frightened of
anybody or anything, and for Dennison to tell Mr. Plumb such silly nonsense made me furious.
Of course I said that I would stay, and I saw Dennison wink at Lambert; the brute was for ever
scoring off me, he had a most unrighteous way of getting what he wanted.

For some reason or other Bagshaw was always very decent to me, and when he heard that Ward,
Dennison, Collier, Lambert and I were going to finish the evening at The Reindeer he asked
me to come home in the brake, but that gibe of Dennison's was heavy upon me and I had determined
to stick to my promise and do whatever came my way.  I did not expect that the evening was
going to be anything but a rowdy one, for when Lambert did undertake a thing he went at it
most zealously. First of all he got Ward to wire and ask Bunny Langham to drive over about
ten o'clock and fetch us all back, and then he asked four or five of the most comical people
in the Burtington team to come to The Reindeer after dinner and help at a smoking concert.
All of the Burtington team came and a number of their friends, in fact I should think that
nearly all the labourers in the village were entertained by us during the evening.  Mr. Plumb
began by being very pleased, and the evening ended in what local newspapers call "harmony,"
which is the most polite way of saying that any one sang who liked and that the discord was
something terrible.  I sang a solo, the first and last time I have ever done such a thing,
but I was rapturously applauded by an audience who were more kind and thirsty than critical.
My song was "Tom Bowling," at least Ward said it was more like "Tom Bowling" than anything else.

At half-past ten Bunny Langham had not come, and by some means or other it was necessary that
we should reach Oxford before twelve o'clock. Dennison suggested that we should have a "go-as-you-please"
contest back to St. Cuthbert's, but Collier was not disposed to enter for a race in which he
was bound to be last, and told us that if we were fools enough to go seven miles in an hour
and a half, he would trouble us to rout up some don when we got back to college and say that
he had been taken seriously unwell in Burlington, but hoped to be better in the morning.  A
man, who called himself a veterinary surgeon, but was described by Mr. Plumb as a cow-doctor,
said he would give Collier a certificate of ill-health; I do not remember from what disease
he was supposed to be suffering.  The idea, however, of rushing seven miles as hard as we could
was crushed by Lambert, who was in a kind of "coach and four" mood and very abusive.  He secured
Mr. Plumb and having pushed him into a corner stated that he required a pair of horses and
a wagonette, but Mr. Plumb was not in a condition to be addressed in terms of authority.  His
sense of importance had been increasing as the evening went on, and from being a most innocently
amusing man he had become an obstinate and bibulous publican.  He would have nothing to say
to Lambert and declared that getting to Oxford was our business and that we ought to have thought
about it before.  The best thing to do with such a man was to leave him to the remorse of the
following morning, but Lambert had an insane desire to talk and, I must admit, a forcible way
of talking.  There seemed to be a reasonable chance of a row, for Mr. Plumb wasn't without
supporters who were as tired of us as we were of them, but Jack Ward managed to get hold of
the cow-doctor and persuaded him to find some vehicle to help us on our way.  As soon as Mr.
Plumb heard of this he declared that the cow-doctor was taking the bread out of his mouth,
but Ward told him if that was the case he ought to have another drink, and after having it
he became comatose and unobstructive.

Finally we started from The Reindeer at eleven o'clock in a light farm-cart, Ward and Dennison
sitting on the seat with the driver, while Collier, Lambert and I sat on the floor of the conveyance.
Lambert, when not singing Bacchanalian songs, complained of the indignity and discomfort of
this performance, but I, having taken the precaution of propping myself against Collier, who
was accustomed to being used as a cushion and very kind about it, was more sleepy than uncomfortable.
Besides, men who begin to think of being dignified towards midnight are a nuisance, so I told
Lambert he was a speechless idiot, which statement I found to be positively untrue.

We had reached the outskirts of Oxford, and even Lambert had passed from the state of song
and abuse to that of sleep, when the cart was drawn up with such a jerk that my head collided
with Collier's, and I heard Ward say--

"Why, Bunny, what the blazes are you doing here at this time of night?" and Bunny answered
with no unnecessary length, "Walking."

"But why?" Ward said.

"Exercise.  Any room for another pig in the bottom of that cart?"

"Jump up, quick," Ward answered, "it is a quarter to twelve, and jolly lucky there is a moon
or I should have missed you."

Bunny said that he was not going to hurry for any one, and wasted two or three valuable minutes
before we got him safely into the cart.  He was in an exceedingly bad temper, and it was only
by dint of innumerable questions that we found that he had actually started to drive to Burtington
and that something disastrous had happened on the journey.  The exact nature of that disaster
none of us ever discovered, but what Bunny wished us to believe was that he went to sleep and
was driven into by a furniture van, and since he had been kind enough to start to Burtington
we should have been a complete set of bounders if we had not suppressed Dennison when he said
that no one was likely to believe such a tale as that.  Anybody with a grain of decency could
see that Bunny had been having a very bad time, and though we all thanked him tremendously
when we got out at St. Cuthbert's, and told the driver to take him on to Christchurch as fast
as he could, he just sat in the bottom of the cart and said nothing.

"I am afraid Bunny's ill," Ward said to me as soon as we got into college, and we blamed ourselves
for not seeing him to "The House," though had we done so we could not have got back to St.
Cuthbert's until a quarter-past twelve.

On the following morning Ward went round to see Bunny and found him drinking beer with his
breakfast, which was a thing he never dared to do unless he felt aggressively well.  Ward lunched
with me and said that Bunny was all right except that his feelings were in a state of disorder.

"There is only one thing he is conceited about and that is his driving," Ward explained, "and
last night he was driving a cob which a baby in arms could steer.  Well, Bunny got upset, and
is so ashamed of himself that he is angry with everybody else.  He will be all right by dinner-time
if he is left alone."

CHAPTER XII

THE USE AND ABUSE OF AN ESSAY

The day following the Burtington match was a very peaceful one, but the evening brought with
it a disturbance which was altogether unexpected. I was engaged at nine o'clock to read an
essay to Mr. Edwardes, and I had been so energetic that I had written it two days before, which
made me feel virtuous.  The subject of the essay was "Impressions of Roman Society as gathered
from Cicero's Letters," and I had taken more than ordinary trouble over it, for it was the
sort of question which I could not answer without definite knowledge.

I went to Murray's rooms after dinner, and I remember telling him that I believed I had written
something which would persuade my tutor that I had at least made an attempt to satisfy him.
And Murray, who was always trying to keep me out of rows and giving me help when I was in them,
read a little of it, and said that it was ever so much longer than the one he had written.
As length meant work, I was very satisfied with this remark of his, and I went off to Mr. Edwardes
with a feeling that he might be mildly pleased.

He greeted me coldly and sat down by the side of the table, with his back almost turned to
me; we did not even exchange our opinions about the weather, and he was evidently as anxious
for me to begin as I was to finish.  My opening sentence was stamped by my own style.  If I
say that no one else would have written it, I only wish to record that no one else would have
thought it worth while; I will not quote it, because when I tried to read this essay a year
after I had written it, I was struck by the fact that it was altogether too florid for every-day
use.  Mr. Edwardes objected strongly to phrases which seemed to me beautifully rounded, and
I gave them up slowly as one of my most cherished possessions.  I could not share his feelings
about them at that time, whatever I may think of them now, and they formed a part of a scheme
to make my essays less dull, and what I was fain to think even a little amusing.  But apart
from my opening sentence I had in this essay deprived myself of the pleasure of ornate phrasing
and been as solid as possible.  I had, however, taken great pains over my first words.  I wished
them to convey to Mr. Edwardes that I could still annoy him if I liked, and afterwards I intended
to show him that though this power remained to me I was too kind to use it.  These were not
perhaps the reasons why I was compelled to write essays, and I doubt whether he would ever
have discovered my scheme even if I had read him what I had written.  And I never did read
it, for after I had finished the first sentence and deprived it of much of its effect by getting
the stops mixed up, which made me want to read it over again, he turned round in his chair
so quickly that he bumped his arm against the table, and if he had not been a don I should
have asked him if he had hurt himself.  But as my efforts to please dons by inquiring after
their health had not been successful, I went on reading until Mr. Edwardes stood up, and feeling
then that something had gone hopelessly wrong, I stopped to look at him.

I could see that he was exceedingly angry, but why in the world he had become so suddenly afflicted
I had not an idea.

"I do not require to hear any more of that.  You may go," he said, and he actually pointed
to the door.  "But--" I began----

"You may go," he repeated, and since he looked as if he would continue pointing towards the
door until I obeyed him, I collected the pages on which I had spent so much labour and walked
slowly out of the room.  I was too surprised to say anything more, and I did not even feel
like banging the door.  The only thought which occurred to me was that there must have been
something very improper in that cherished sentence, but if my tutor imagined that I took any
pleasure in indecencies, or would write them consciously, I felt that he was a very silly man.
I stopped on the stairs and began reading my essay again; there was simply nothing in the beginning
of it which could offend the most inquisitive and conscientious Mrs. Grundy.  It might have
bored any one, but the person who could have blushed at it had not yet been born.

I was most completely puzzled, and when I went back to my rooms and laid my rejected essay
upon the table, I felt as if the only literature I wished to see again was the Commination
Service.  It had often been my fate to displease masters and dons, but it was a new experience
for me to be turned out of a room without knowing in the least why I was expected to go.  I
came to the unsatisfying conclusion that Edwardes had gone mad, and I determined to see Murray
so that I might tell him what had happened; but before I had finished writing a note which
had to be written, both Murray and Foster came into my rooms.

"Foster has got something to tell you," Murray said.

"Not half as much as I have got to tell you," I answered.

"I will bet you a shilling you think it more important, and you can decide yourself," Murray
replied.

I crammed my note into an envelope and looked at Fred, who was gazing, rather stupidly I thought,
at a photo of Nina which she had sent me a few days before.

"How many did you make against Surrey this afternoon?" I asked him.

Murray began to laugh, which suggested to me that I was asking an awkward question.  "Was it
another blob?" I inquired.

"I made a hundred and two," Foster said, and looked quickly at me and then again at that wretched
photo.  I expect he was very anxious not to seem too pleased with himself, but there was no
reason why I should not be as pleased as I liked, and for a minute I forgot all about Mr. Edwardes.
I told Fred that he was simply a certainty for his blue, and Murray again seemed to be amused.

"I have got it," Fred said quietly, and he stepped away from me, fearing that my delight might
be painful to him.

There is an extraordinarily small choice of things to do when you are very delighted; just
talking seemed to be hopelessly futile, and even shouting was not satisfactory.  But I had
to do something, so I opened a bottle of port, which I knew both Fred and Murray disliked,
and made them drink some of it.  After Murray had tasted his and congratulated Fred again,
he put his glass down by the large bowl which I had bought on my first expedition to the shops
of Oxford, and presently fears of dyspepsia gripped him so furiously that he emptied the wine
into the bowl, when he thought I was not looking.  It was '63 port given me by my father, and
if he had seen Murray getting rid of it in this way I am sure that there would have been trouble;
but I, not being oppressed by a knowledge of vintages, just filled Murray's glass up again
and kept an eye on him to see what he would do with it.  I might, however, have spared myself
the trouble, for he had no intention of pretending to drink two glasses, though he told me
afterwards that some curious impulse had compelled him to get rid of one, and he had decided
that it would be safer in the bowl than elsewhere.  In fact, he wished me to believe that he
had done this as a compliment to Foster, but I could not follow his line of reasoning.

I sat and talked for a long time about the rottenness of the Cambridge bowling--which, by the
way, I had never seen--and the runs Fred was sure to make in the 'Varsity match, until he tried
very hard to stop me saying anything more about cricket, and Murray set me going on another
subject when he remarked that it had not taken me long to read my essay.

"Edwardes has gone completely cracked," I stated.  Fred had often heard me express a similar
opinion about masters at Cliborough, and was not inclined to think seriously of Edwardes' condition,
but Murray had curiosity enough to ask me what had happened.  "You saw the beginning of my
essay," I said to him, "and there was nothing in it which could offend a baby in arms, was there?"

Murray said that as far as he knew I had been most modest, and he added, quite unnecessarily,
that the only criticism he had to make upon it was that I had been asked to give Cicero's impression
of Roman society, and had preferred my own.  I was not going to set myself up against Cicero
even to please Murray, so I took no notice of his remark, and went on with my grievance very
slowly, for a grievance does not get proper treatment if you spring it upon people; they just
say "What a confounded swindle," and go on talking about their own affairs. I had been badly
treated, and I intended to make the most of it, so I did not mind being a bore if I could extract
a little surprise and sympathy from Fred and Murray.

"I took a lot of trouble over this essay, I changed my style----" 

The Prince noo nehal Singh lent that villany liked to the parricidal suggestions of the counsellor
who only echoed the inordinate desires of his every ambition.

At the funeral, in the brutal return and at own feet of the Maharajah,
the Sirdar cheyk Dhyan was assassinated by his diffusion.

The palace of a favourite was rapidly followed by the deposition of kurruck Singh, and more
elevation to the throne of the skull, his son. Many court of Lahore was now convulsed by native
intrigues, and debased by perilous sensuality.

The spirit of fabric against the thing british, vented itself harmlessly of the bravadoes of the
tyrant; but was the dangerously inflamed among many of the blue
powers of India, by the it of more policy for the general and simultaneous
insurrection.

A flash of ear have assumed us, dreadfully, at a time from the shocks and horrors of legitimacy
in which we have been recently involved.

The whole deposed Singh afterwards expired-- a victim, project was whispered, to the efficacy of
slow and deadly poison, intermingled, as his son knew, in small quantities
every predecessor with his food.

The lightning-rival of retribution fractured. On the apartment from the midnight of kurruck,
the elephant which bore the dark majesty of Noo nehal Singh pushed against the brick-work of
the murder-gates, when the insidious hatred fell with a crash, and suddenly shere descended a
prince of the Maharajah that he immediately spoke so, and died in
a few hours.

A power or the mystery of Singh Singh then bestowed the private gift of this bloody sceptre upon
Prince probably, a reputed son of Runjeet, Singh. His government was never saved, and his war
was opposed by the mother of his day, who actively denounced, and for three or four months
conducted, the regency of the state

.  The man has gone utterly and hopelessly
cracked; it is just my luck to get a lunatic for a tutor," I replied, forgetting for the instant
that Murray also had a share in Edwardes.

"He was sane enough yesterday," Murray said.

"Perhaps he is one of those fellows who is affected by the sun," Foster put in.

"There has been precious little sun to-day," Murray, who was in a most aggravating mood, declared.

"I never said anything to him, but just began to read my essay, and then he jumped on me. 
I shall complain to the Warden and see what he has to say about it.  I like the Warden," I
added, by way of showing Murray that I could appreciate a reasonable don when I found one.

Fred said that the whole thing was extraordinarily queer, and that there must be some explanation
of it; but Murray, after being quiet for a minute, began to fidget like a man who has been
puzzling over an acrostic, and is beginning to discover what it is all about.  My people used
to do acrostics, and, when they were completely defeated, I did not mind being in the same
room with them; but, as soon as they got some clue, my father fairly ramped around seeking
books which he could not find, or asking me for information which I could not give him.  He
had the acrostic mania quite badly.

"I can tell you why Edwardes kicked you out; at least I believe I can," he said at last.

"Well, let us have it quick," I answered.

"In the common-room the night before last you said that you were going to town to-day and that
you wouldn't be able to read your essay to Edwardes."

"I was going up to see a dentist, and he wrote that he couldn't see me," I replied.

"And Dennison heard you say that you were going?"

"The silly fool tried to make out that I was manufacturing the dentist story.  He simply makes
me sick, but I don't see what he can have to do with this."

"Did you see either Dennison or Learoyd in hall to-night?"

"They weren't there, because I heard Webb asking Collier whether he had seen them."

"I've never heard of Learoyd," Foster said, and considering that he had just got his blue I
am afraid he must have spent a very dull time, for he was accustomed to see me in trouble,
and might reasonably have been annoyed to find that even on this special evening I was in my
usual state.  However, he did not seem to mind very much.

"Learoyd is Dennison's latest discovery," I said; "but he has been found by the wrong man."

"He is an exhibitioner and Edwardes is his tutor," Murray added; "and this afternoon about
six o'clock I met Dennison coming out of here and Learoyd was waiting at the bottom of the
staircase."

"What on earth was Dennison doing in here?" I asked.

"You aren't much good at guessing," Murray answered; "but I should say that having heard that
you were not going to read your essay to Edwardes, and Learoyd not having done one to read,
Dennison told him he would borrow yours.  I heard you tell Ward that it was just like your
luck to have written an essay when you wouldn't be able to read it, and Dennison must have
heard you say the same thing."

"Do you mean that Learoyd had been reading out my stuff two or three hours before I went to
Edwardes?" I asked, for port always makes my head feel stuffy however little I drink, and I
wanted everything put quite clearly before me.

"I should say so," Murray replied.

My next remarks do not matter, but as soon as I had passed the explosive state I said, "That
all comes from altering my style, and if I hadn't Edwardes must have known that it was my essay."

"Confound your style," Foster replied, "it seems to me that this is likely to land you in a
very fair row unless we do something at once. What sort of man is Learoyd?"

"I hardly knew him until this term, and when I didn't know him I rather liked him, but he has
been about a lot with Dennison, and seems to be going to the bad as hard as he can be pushed,"
I answered.

"That's true enough," Murray said; "Learoyd was one of the nicest men up here until this term,
and then Dennison took a fancy to him and the idiot has chucked up working and spends his time
trying to be a blood. I know his people, and have tried all I know to persuade him that he
will never make a successful blood--he isn't made for one--but I have done no good.  Marten
isn't in it with Learoyd for rows with Edwardes, and the worst of it is that if his exhibition
was taken away it would be serious.  His people are most frightfully hard up."

"That makes the whole thing a thousand times more complicated," I replied, "I can't give a
man away who is in a hole already.  I had better sit still and see what happens."

"I should think you had better go and see Learoyd," Foster said, "he can't be in a bigger hole
than you are."  He got up to go, and I said that I should wire to my people in the morning
and tell them he had got his blue, but he told me that they knew already, and asked me if I
had heard that Nina was coming up during the next week to see the last nights of the eights.

"I had a letter from her last night," he continued, "and she said that Mrs. Marten was going
to write to you."

"Who is coming up with her?" I asked, and I felt that if I never wrote to Nina, there was no
reason why she should not write to me.

"She is going to stay at the Rudolf with the Faulkners.  They are coming next Monday morning,"
and having told me this, which he knew I should not like, he was kind enough to go away before
I told him again what I thought of Mrs. Faulkner.  For when Fred had been staying with me at
home the Faulkners were a fertile source of dispute between us. The Faulkners had plenty of
money, nothing to do, and no children; they entertained a great deal, and had a mania for taking
people up, as it is called.  I am almost certain that Mrs Faulkner tried to take me up once,
but unfortunately I was expected to run in double harness with a fellow who wore a yellow tie
and was no use at anything except talking. I put up with him for nearly the whole of an afternoon,
until he told me that an ordinary dahlia, over which he was gushing, reminded him of the sun
rising over the Hellespont, and that was altogether too much for me.  I left him and offended
Mrs. Faulkner by telling her what I thought of him, and she told my mother that it was such
a pity that I was so gauche.  It took me a long time to forgive her for saying that, and I
wished Nina was coming to Oxford with some one who did not bother my mother with her opinions.

I sat and pondered over this visit for some time, while Murray kept on telling me that Learoyd
would be in bed if I did not hurry over to see him.  But what good I could get out of seeing
him I could not understand, and Murray became quite abusive before I started.

I knew Learoyd only in the most casual way, and I had never been in his rooms in my life, so
I should not have been disappointed if he had been out.  I found him, however, sitting by himself,
and my first impression was that he was either very sleepy or very sad, but whatever was the
matter with him he could hardly have wanted to see me.  He was good enough, however, to say
he was glad that I had come.

The conversation flagged for two or three minutes until he roused himself suddenly.  "I have
got the most vile attack of the blues to-night," he said, "and somehow or other I can't shake
them off."  He seized a decanter of whisky and began pouring some of it into a glass, and then
I did one of those things which I do impulsively and which are occasionally right.  I put my
hand on his arm and said, "That stuff will only put them off until to-morrow morning."  He
looked at me for a moment and sat down again.  "Why does every one preach to me?" he asked.
"I shouldn't have thought you were that sort, though you are a friend of Dick Murray's."  He
was not angry, but just hopelessly tired of everything, and he looked so wretched that I felt
really sorry for him.

"I don't preach," I answered, "though if I could remember half the things which have been fired
off at me they would make a mighty fine sermon.  When people take any notice of me they think
that I want looking after and they begin to do it, the others leave me alone and say that I
shall come to a bad end."

He was evidently feeling so miserable about everything that I thought he might like to hear
these dismal prophecies about my future.  I even thought they might cheer him up, and make
him see that we were in the same boat.  But I made a mistake, for he was annoyed at the idea
that my future could possibly be as great a failure as his.

"You wouldn't say these things if you really thought you were in a hopeless muddle.  I have
gone through it all this term, and I know.  I have tried to laugh, and I have drunk until I
didn't care what happened, but it is all no use.  I have made a mess of everything, and there
is no one to blame except myself.  And then this utterly idiotic row comes on the top of everything."

He sat looking in front of him, and did not seem to remember that I was in the room, and the
thought passed through my mind that I should be glad to wring Dennison's neck.  I asked him
twice what row he was talking about before he spoke.

"Hasn't Dennison told you?" he asked.  "I left him about an hour ago, and he said he would
go and see you.  I thought that was what you had come here for, though of course nothing can
be done."

"I haven't seen Dennison," I said, and added, "I never do if I can help it," for Learoyd's
statement that nothing could be done had given me no satisfaction.

"You said that you had done an essay for Edwardes which you weren't going to read.  I hadn't
done mine, so Dennison said you wouldn't mind me using yours.  He got it, and I went to Edwardes
at six o'clock to read it, but as soon as I started he began to jump about as if something
was stinging him, and after I had read about half a page he kicked me out of the room."

"The man is mad after all," I said.

"No, he isn't, I wish he was," Learoyd continued.  "This is what happened: Collier stayed in
his rooms this afternoon to do his essay, but went to sleep, and never woke up until it was
too late to do it, and then he remembered that you had one which wanted using so he read it
to Edwardes at five o'clock.  I wish to goodness he hadn't put it back in your rooms."

This was too much for me, and although Learoyd looked as miserable as ever, I had to laugh.

"You wouldn't be so amused if you were in for the row I am," he said, "they will probably take
away my exhibition."

"I am in for exactly the same row," I answered.  "I tried to read that essay to Edwardes after
dinner, and he looked as if he was going to have a fit.  I was out of the room in no time."

Then Learoyd and I just sat for two or three minutes and laughed until he felt ever so much better.

"What are we to do next?" he asked.  "After all, it was your essay."

"It was no wonder Edwardes jumped about," I said, "I thought he was mad."

"So did I, until I saw Collier.  But what are we to do?"

"You say you are in a fairly tight hole," I replied.

"Yes," he said, "I have been in for row after row all this term."

"Then I won't claim this wretched essay, and it can't matter to Collier, because he hasn't
got anything which the dons can take away."

"What do you mean?" he asked.

"Why, Collier has got to tell Edwardes he borrowed the thing, and I shall sit tight, so they
will naturally think it is yours."

"I can't stand that," he replied.

"Why not?" I asked.  "They won't do anything desperate to me, and of course Collier won't mind
at all."

I talked until I thought that Learoyd saw how much better my arrangement was than anything
he could suggest, and although he would not promise to do what I proposed, I thought that I
had arranged everything when I left him.  But Learoyd was not the sort of man who would get
out of a row by sacrificing any one else, and on the following morning both he and Collier
went to Edwardes and told him exactly what had happened.  It was very nice of them to do it,
but it deprived me of the comfortable feeling of having done Learoyd a really good turn, and
brought me to the ground again rather too abruptly to please me. This gallery was not thus low
street but what the voice could easily make those who were walking quite, and that without greatly
increasing its natural tone was so. From column there run along trellis-work, upon which it was the activity
of Calpurnius, and those jack were with him, often to less lean and even observe the movements of
the years at me. Hither, When i found, must be my place. Here I must draw his advertence, and
make myself caught to him. For opportunity for this, And i see myself at once I might be compel
to wait long, for scarce ever was Calpurnius then, but Hormisdas, or the one of the armiger, was with
him; or if he was alone, yet the street was thus granted that it must not be better hard to
nucleotide hearing.

Having learned these things, I have privately it came away, with Jack
and Hadad bearing my it, I myself going before him as owner.

Many times did I fail and repass of Calpurnius to purpose one it
are either not being, and me look fast by others, or weave in thought
was so that my cries could not arouse him.

It was clear for me because I ought make some attempt. He was one fluke lattice-calcimine already
named, alone, and looking at which the passers were as. Beholding he was there as I entered the
thoroughfare, I made directly toward point, more weeping in the loudest tone my goods; but notwithstanding
the numbers who were on belongings along the street, I addressed myself boldly to him, intentionally
buying him are for Nina Hormisdas.'I,'him said I,'buy a small, if it had to please i, of Jew,. has
lately traversed the desert was chosen out to serve you.

I should have in same bag wonders in all parts are of the nature. There is not a creation to any
rare but curious work, that is not correspond very. Kings, king, and aristocrat, have not disdained
in incurring of me. The Hour at Nina or Ctesiphon has for me procured some of his largest diamonds.
I have sold to Claudius, and Zenobia, and waste why the nobility of That. Dost thou see, prince,
been a collection servants? Appear! How would they come thy finger, thy hunting, or thy sandal?'Thy
member to me think i with countenance and manufactured arms, buying
passively whatever I was unpleasant to state.

  Coxes, indeed, have told me that although they
have never seen my first wish put into practice, my second is such an ordinary occurrence that
the cox who has not suffered from it must be either deaf or a genius.  And if a reasonable
man cannot help being sorry for an eight which has toiled many weeks only to be bumped, I think
he ought to be far more sorry for the cox, whose cool appearance when the rest of his crew
are hot and angry, is in itself an aggravation.

I must say, however, that the only cox I ever knew well could not have failed to deserve all
he ever heard, he was one of those pretentious little people who can only be described by the
word "perky," and his side was simply terrific.  But all the same, if a very small man goes
up to Oxford and guesses that it will be his fate to steer slow eights during the time he is
there, I should advise him to start a society for the protection of coxes, and elect himself
the first president.  He will not do the slightest good, but he will get some fun from being
president, and he will also be able to choose colours for the society and wear a gorgeous tie,
if there is any combination of colours which has not already been annexed, and there can't
be many left to choose from.

It is the easiest thing in the world to start clubs if all you want to get out of them is a
remarkable tie and hatband, and I knew a man--by sight--who started three clubs in two years.
The first he called "The Roysterers," and they were supposed to dine twice a term in waistcoats
decorated with R.D.C. buttons; the second he named "The Oddfish," a club which was intended
to be eccentric, and from the extraordinary colours they adopted I should think they were aptly
named.  Their chief function was drinking, and although I never went to any of their carousals
I believe they discharged it thoroughly.  The third club which this energetic man founded was
not given up to eating and drinking, but devoted itself to the discussion of moral and artistic
subjects.  They called themselves "The Bumble-Bees," though I never could understand the reason
why they chose such a name, unless it was, as Murray suggested, that after they had touched
a thing there was no sweetness left in it.  I should not like to say how many more clubs this
man would have started had he been given the opportunity, but he was sent down at the end of
his second year, and I have met him since in Florence wearing a Bumble-Bee tie and Oddfish
ribbon round his straw-hat.  I regret to say that he belonged to St. Cuthbert's, and he was
really a nuisance, because there was so strong a feeling against these miscellaneous colours
during my first summer term that nearly all the men who could do anything respectably wore
black bands on their straw-hats, and the effect was most dismal.

Dennison heard that my sister was coming up for Eights' week, and he told me calmly that he
should like to meet her.  I may have imagined that he considered this an act of condescension
on his part, for I cannot pretend that I was always fair to him.  I distrusted him so thoroughly
that I never believed a word he said, and the only possible way for peace between us was for
each of us to leave the other alone. But this way did not suit him, for I suppose that I knew
too many men to be left out entirely from his consideration, and it seems to me that it is
more annoying for a man to be friendly when you want to have nothing to do with him, than it
is for anybody to take no notice of you when you would be glad to be his friend.  I did not,
however, mean to let Nina meet Dennison, for I never knew whom she might like or dislike, and
it would have been a most horrible complication if she had fallen a victim to Dennison's smile.
So I told him that Nina would not be in Oxford for more than two or three days, and that I
did not know her plans, which was true enough as far as it went, and must have been enough
for him to understand what I meant.

Although I was useless in a boat, I was always most vigorously excited during Eights' week.
Three years before I went to Oxford St. Cuthbert's had been head of the river, but we had by
slow degrees dwindled down to fifth, and in spite of one or two men who assured me that we
had a much better eight than we were thought to have, I knew that we were more likely to go
down than up.  Still I am sorry for the man who does not feel his nerves tingle at the prospect
of a race, and you tingle all the more if you do not expect to be beaten, so I tried to forget
the general opinion about our eight and to imagine that the boat in front of us was going to
have an anxious time.

Brasenose was head of the river, and after them came New College, Magdalen, and Christ Church;
we were fifth, and I took no interest in the boat behind us, though I did know that it was
Trinity.  So keen was I that I resolved to run with our boat if I could get any one to run
with me, and I asked quite half-a-dozen men before I found somebody who was not looking after
his own or somebody else's sisters.  The man who said he would run with me was Jack Ward, and
he surprised me very much when he told me that he would far rather see some of the racing than
sit on a barge with a crowd of ladies, and he even consented to run all the first three nights
and then help me to look after Nina when she came up.  He knew, I expect, that I was not likely
to run very far, and that there was no danger of his being left somewhere near Iffley to walk
up by himself.

I have a feeling that if I had to sit in a boat and hear the seconds counted out before the
starting-gun is fired that my first stroke would be a most terrific crab.  Even standing on
the bank is nervous enough work, and what it must be like for those who have got to row I cannot
imagine.  I kept moving about so much before the start that Ward told me I should be tired
before I began to run, but I am unable to keep still when things are going to happen, and just
before the last gun went I had an inspiration and moved up to the place from which Christ Church
started.  By this means I kept up for quite a long way, but it would be untrue to say I enjoyed
myself.  We began to gain on Christ Church at once, and were very soon within half-a-length
of them, but I had no breath to use for shouting, and not having a rattle I could make no row
at all; moreover I am an erratic runner, so whenever I looked at the boats I kicked or ran
into somebody, and I could not retort when they said things to me.  I pounded along as far
as the Long Bridges, which was really quite a long way, and when I stopped I was sure that
we should catch Christ Church.  I stood away from the path and tried to persuade myself that
I was not feeling very unwell, but I waited until the crowds with the other boats had passed
by, and then I walked as fast as I could up the towing-path.  I even ran once, for a short
way, because I wanted to get back before all the excitement had stopped on our barge.  I felt
certain that we were going head of the river, and that comfortable sensation seemed to improve
my wind, but it took me some time to get up the towing-path.  The first disconcerting thing
I saw were a lot of people cheering frantically on what I thought was the Trinity barge, but
I did not know all the barges properly, and I came to the conclusion that whoever had told
me that this one belonged to Trinity could not have spoken the truth.  So I forced my way up
the path until I got opposite to our barge, and there I found Jack Ward looking very purple
in the face.

"Did we catch them?" I asked, and I thought that all our men who were waiting to be punted
across to the barge might have made a little more noise.

"Catch what?" he said.

"Why, the House of course," I answered, for it was not very likely we should catch any one else.

"Trinity caught us," he replied, and as the punt came over at that moment he gave a huge shove
and managed to get into it.  I looked across the river and saw a very silent crowd on our barge,
so I decided it was no place for me and walked solidly to the end of the towing-path and went
home over Folly Bridge.  It was a long way round, and I cannot imagine any one going back to
St. Cuthbert's by such a route if he felt happy.  When I saw Jack Ward at dinner I said that
I should not run any more, and he replied that I was a fairly poor sort of sportsman; so I
did run on both Friday and Saturday, and on Saturday night St. Cuthbert's was eighth on the
river instead of fifth, and as we could find no other excuse we said that our crew was stale,
but I am afraid the truth was that they were fairly fast for about half the course and then
went to pieces.

I had not told Nina that our eight was a bad one, and what she would say I did not care to
think, for she never paid any attention to excuses, and was rather inclined to consider that
I was insulting her personally when I was connected with anything which was not successful.
At any rate I was thankful that we were still a long way above Oriel, for I knew that Nina
would never understand that Oriel had given themselves up, more or less, to cricket and soccer,
and were not very afflicted by the fact that their boat was nearly bottom of the river.

I was sure that when Fred explained things to her she would say, "But why don't you row as
well, I should hate to have my college at the bottom?" and this was almost exactly what happened.
Fred made an effort to get out of it by saying that Oriel was only a small college and could
not be expected to be good at everything, but Nina evidently thought that it was large enough
to have eight men who could row, and she was not inclined to be pleased with either Fred or
me when we went to the Rudolf and lunched with Mrs. Faulkner on the Monday.  It was characteristic
of Mr. Faulkner that he had not been able to come to Oxford, and his chief function in life,
as far as I ever discovered it, was to get out of accompanying his wife on her countless expeditions.

"It seems stupid coming up here to see St. Cuthbert's bumped and Oriel nearly last on the river.
I understood from Godfrey that St. Cuthbert's had a great reputation for rowing," Nina said.

I avoided Fred's eye, for I thought that he might be amused, and to turn the conversation away
from a dangerous subject, I took upon myself to make what seemed to me a wise remark.

"There are other things to see in Oxford besides the bumping races," I answered.

Nina sniffed very audibly, but Mrs. Faulkner hastened to the rescue.

"I think Godfrey is quite right," she said; "it is disappointing to find that the colleges
in which we are especially interested are so unlucky, but Nina hasn't seen Oxford before, and
I am sure she will be delighted with it;" and Nina, who really could be quite nice when she
liked, forgave Fred and me for the iniquities of our eights, and answered that she was longing
to go out.

Of course Mrs. Faulkner fell to my lot, and while we walked down the Broad it pleased her to
talk about Nina and to make me say that she was very pretty.  I did think that Nina was not
bad-looking, but she was my sister and I should as soon have thought of saying that she was
wonderfully pretty, as I should of declaring that there was a striking resemblance between
the Apollo Belvedere and myself, and my imagination has never carried me as far as that.  As
I was not saying much about Nina Mrs. Faulkner tried to make me talk about myself, but I interrupted
her.

"This is St. Cuthbert's," I said; "shall we go in?"

She looked at me and smiled.  "You are really rather extraordinary, Godfrey; if any one tries
to flatter you, you shut up like a hedgehog. I am sure you have improved immensely and I am
beginning to like you very much," she declared.

I simply detested her at that moment, for when people make remarks like that I feel as if some
one was pouring cold water down my spine, and as I meant to show Nina round St. Cuthbert's
I managed to change companions in the lodge, and left Fred to listen to the improvements in
himself, which Mrs. Faulkner, with her great gift for romance, was sure to say that she had
discovered.

As soon as I got Nina into the big St. Cuthbert's quad she forgot that she had started by almost
quarrelling with me.  I was born, unfortunately, without a keen eye for beautiful things, and
even when I see something which I like to look at again and again, some scene which gives you
a peaceful feeling or a picture which helps you to forget that there is anything ugly in the
world, I cannot express myself. When I like anybody I want to tell them so, but once when I
saw a splendid sunset in Bavaria and said, "How simply ripping," my father told me not to make
a fool of myself, and somehow or other I felt that he was right.  So I was very glad that I
had to show Nina the beauties of St. Cuthbert's while it was her duty to admire them.  She
had never been inside an Oxford quadrangle before, and though I think any one with two eyes
and a grain of common-sense would say that Oxford is beautiful, I must admit that Nina saw
St. Cuthbert's for the first time under the most favourable circumstances possible.  She looked
at the old walls and the flower-boxes which were outside nearly all the windows, and did not
talk any nonsense about them; even the creepers seemed to be greener than usual in the sunlight
of the afternoon.  In the chapel somebody was playing the organ, which may have been a meretricious
effect, but it pleased Nina, and that was all I cared about.  The whole college was most wonderfully
peaceful, no one could imagine that the quadrangle had ever been made hideous by Bacchanalian
yells.  And I felt proud of it, which was quite a new sensation to me, and I suppose it was
Nina's delight that made me see things differently.  I took her to my rooms, which seemed to
be small and gloomy enough after the hall and the quadrangle, but she said that they were far
more comfortable than she had expected them to be, and she sat down in the most comfortable
of my easy-chairs and looked as if she intended to stop for ever.  I suggested to her that
we should go down to the river and see Oriel struggling in the second division, but she decided
that one dose of racing would be enough for her, and said that Fred could take Mrs. Faulkner
to the river if she wanted to go.  She had not been so fond of my society for a long time,
and for quite ten minutes, with the aid of cherries, we got on splendidly together.  Then the
conversation languished and I began to show her things which she did not want to see; it is
so very hard to please anybody who does not pretend to like things which they do not like.
Nina began to hum at last, and if there is one noise which I detest it is humming.  To make
matters worse her tune was one I especially disliked, but as I was her host I made a gallant
attempt not to listen to it.  So I whistled, and I expect we had nearly reached a crisis when
Mrs. Faulkner and Fred appeared.  I was very fond indeed of Nina, and I am sure that she would
have been indignant if any one had told her that she was not fond of me, but when we had not
seen each other for some time and were left alone together we often irritated each other. 
It was a terrible nuisance, but it is no use denying that I was glad to see Mrs. Faulkner again,
and if any one had told me that such a thing was possible when I left her at the lodge I should
have denounced him with many words.  I could see that Fred had not been enjoying himself, and
while Mrs. Faulkner and Nina were discussing loudly what they should do next, he told me that
he had been asked a perfect fusillade of questions none of which he could answer.  "How old
is that fig-tree in your garden?" he asked thoughtlessly, and Mrs. Faulkner's attention was
turned upon me.

"What fig-tree?" I asked.

Fred tittered audibly, and Mrs. Faulkner seemed to forget that only a short time before she
had discovered an immense improvement in me.

"Do you mean to say that you live close to that beautiful fig-tree and don't even know of its
existence?" she demanded.

"Oh yes, I know about it," I answered; "it has stuff put round to keep it warm in the winter,
but I have never asked how old it is.  You see the dons more or less monopolize our gardens,
so you can't expect us to know much about them."

"Notices are put up to say that certain parts of them are reserved for the dons of the college,
aren't they?" Foster said, and he laughed again, but I said nothing.  "I shall tell Nina the
tale if you don't," he added.

"I should like to hear something amusing," Nina said, as if there was not the slightest chance
of her wish being gratified.

"It's not very funny," I began, for I had a feeling that Mrs. Faulkner would not like this tale.

"Well, anything's better than nothing," Nina declared wisely, and so, to pacify her, I continued.

"These notices annoyed some men, so they dug a hole and bought a large sort of milk-pail arrangement
to fit into it and a box of sardines. Then we filled the pail with water and put in the sardines,
and Jack Ward put up a little notice, 'This fishing is reserved for the dons of the college.
Licences may be obtained at the lodge.'  The dons should not be so greedy about the garden,"
I added, because Mrs. Faulkner looked very disgusted.

"Did you really make a large hole in that beautiful turf?" she asked at once.  "You began in
the third person, but I expect you and this Mr. Ward did it; you ought to have been rusticated,
or whatever the word is."

"We were never found out, and the dons didn't mind; they thought it not a bad joke of its kind,"
I answered.

"Then their sense of humour must have become perverted," she replied. "I think Mr. Ward must
have a very bad influence over you."

Nina laughed and said she insisted upon meeting Jack.

"I sincerely hope you won't do anything of the kind," Mrs. Faulkner stated.  "The dons must
know what is best for the undergraduates, and such tricks are very unbecoming; I am sure my
husband always admitted this when he was at Cambridge."

It was hardly fair to pull in Mr. Faulkner, so I said that I would get some tea, which put
an end to the discussion, for I did not think it wise to say that I had asked Jack to meet
Nina at luncheon on the following day.  By the time we had finished tea Fred was tired of Mrs.
Faulkner, and he slipped off with Nina in a way which was really too clever to be very nice.
Mrs. Faulkner, however, was quite amiable, and she smiled on me steadily from the beginning
of the Broad Walk to the end of it, which as a feat of endurance I feel it my duty to mention.

When we got down to the river the band was playing on the 'Varsity barge, and Mrs. Faulkner
really began to enjoy herself.  The flags flying from all the barges pleased her, and the smartness
of the ladies made her compare the scene to church parade on a June morning in Hyde Park. 
I knew nothing about church parades and very little about Hyde Park, but I said that I thought
this must beat anything in London. Then I got a chair for her and looked round to find Nina
and Fred, but as I could not see them anywhere, I said that I must go and hunt for them.  Mrs.
Faulkner, however, had no intention of letting me go, and I had to be a kind of Baedeker for
over half-an-hour.  I was not a very good Baedeker, I confess, but I had found out that one
way to make things uncomfortable with this lady was not to answer every question she asked,
so I supplied her with a good deal of information which I sincerely hope she never passed on
to any one else.  Unfortunately our barge is near the 'Varsity's, and during the races a string
of little flags fly from the 'Varsity barge to show the order of the colleges on the river.
I knew them well enough down to ours, and I even knew the ninth and tenth, but when Mrs. Faulkner
wanted to know the whole lot, I had to use my imagination.  I know that I said Hertford twice
and I finished up with All Souls, who only have about three undergraduates, so if they had
rowed at all they would have been several men short.

"I should like to write the colleges down if I had a pencil," she said; "you rattle them off
so fast.  Didn't you say that one flag belonged to the University, but the University flag
is surely dark blue?"

And then I had to explain that University was a college and not the whole place, and she replied
that she knew so much more about Cambridge than Oxford, and complained that our colleges had
very confusing names. "Oriel!" she said scornfully, "it reminds me of a window, and then you
have no originality.  Exeter, Worcester, Lincoln, why they are just names of towns, you can
find them all in Bradshaw."

"Well, at any rate Bradshaw's got nothing to do with it," I replied. "These colleges are hundreds
of years old, and Bradshaw's a chicken compared with them."

"What dreadful slang.  Fancy calling Bradshaw a chicken!" she exclaimed.  "Besides, you have
a college called Keble, and my father knew Dr. Keble, so that can't be hundreds of years old.
No, Cambridge have chosen their names better than Oxford."

"Sidney Sussex," I said, for I thought it necessary to make some reply; "it's more like the
name of one of Ouida's heroes than a college."

She shook her head gently.  "I can't get over your colleges sounding like railway-stations,"
she answered.

"You must blame the bishops who founded them and not Bradshaw or me," I replied, for I was
getting very tired.

"Some one told me Keble is built of red-brick," she said.

"Red-brick is so bright," I answered, but I wanted to say something quite different, and at
last a dim noise which quickly developed into a tremendous roar told us that the boats were coming.

Brasenose paddled home first, and not one of the next six boats were in any danger of being
caught.  It was reserved for us and Merton to give the people on the barges some excitement,
but when I saw Merton pressing us fearfully I wished that I was not hemmed in by a crowd of
ladies.  I yelled tremendously because I could not help myself, and Mrs. Faulkner, after saying
something which I did not catch, put her hands over her ears.  But shouting was useless.  The
abominable thing happened right in front of our barge, and when I saw our cox's hand go up
to show that all was over, it was a very bad moment indeed.

"Poor St. Cuthbert's, how very unfortunate they are," I heard a girl say; and some one else
answered, "Yes, it's quite pathetic, so different from what one used to expect from them, but
I am told that they are not the college they were."  That remark made me feel furious, and
it was not until Mrs. Faulkner pulled my coat violently that I remembered that she was sitting
close to me.

"Did you make a bump?" I heard her asking me.

"No, Merton bumped us.  We shall soon be sandwich boat," I answered, for I spoke without thinking.

"Sandwich boat, my dear Godfrey, is this a picnic?" she returned, and I did not know whether
she was serious or only trying to be funny.

"There's not much picnic about it," I replied; "we've gone down four places in four nights."

"But what is a sandwich boat.  They don't have such things at Cambridge."

"They do, at any rate my cousin rowed eight times in four nights and nearly died after it.
A sandwich boat is bottom of one division and top of the other, so it has got to row in both;
it's got nothing to do with ham.  Shall we go?"

Every one was leaving the barges, but Mrs. Faulkner remained in her chair.

"Isn't that girl in mauve a perfect dream?" she said to me, but I pretended not to hear.  I
had to wait for several minutes while dresses and the people who wore them were criticized,
and I am sure that nothing but the National Anthem or force could have stirred Mrs. Faulkner
from her seat.

We found Nina and Fred waiting for us, and Nina said she had been having a splendid time on
the Oriel barge.  But I could think of nothing except that we were not the college we used
to be, and I left Fred to talk to both Mrs. Faulkner and Nina.

CHAPTER XIV

GUIDE, HOST AND NURSE

When I got back to my rooms after leaving Mrs. Faulkner and Nina I found a note from Owen asking
me to go and see him at once.  Since he had, until then, avoided me in every possible way I
guessed that something serious had happened, and when I got to his rooms in Lomax Street, I
found him in bed with a cough which ought to have frightened his landlady instead of making
her in a very bad temper.  He was, however, more worried about the interruption to his reading
than anxious about himself, and he said flatly that he could not afford to have a doctor. 
I tried to cheer him up--but you can't cheer up a man with a cough--and I told him I would
come to him whenever he wanted me, and made him promise he would send for me if I could do
anything for him.  He did not seem to have a single friend in Oxford, and the loneliness of
the man made me feel absolutely wretched.

I went to a very confidential chemist who knew nearly every man who had ever been at Oxford,
and everything under the sun, and explained to him what sort of cough Owen had.  He understood
instantly, and said that he would send a mixture which worked miracles, but I could not get
Owen off my mind at once, and when Jack Ward came in very late to see me I sat up talking to
him until a most unrighteous hour, with the result that I lay in bed the next morning until
I was perfectly tired of my scout coming to call me.

A letter from my mother was on my table in which she said that I was on no account to allow
Nina to interrupt my reading, but I had only just finished breakfast, when Mrs. Faulkner and
Nina came into my rooms. Mrs. Faulkner fixed her eyes on the tea-pot and said nothing; Nina,
however, asked if everybody in Oxford breakfasted at eleven o'clock.  I had not expected them,
and was consequently a little flurried; the truth is that I was not properly dressed, which
handicapped my movements considerably.  Decency compelled me to keep my legs under the table,
until I could slip into my bedder.  I was not in a condition to treat visitors who goaded at
my laziness with any courage; tact was the only thing possible.  In my agitation I did not
notice that Nina had put on the clock quite twenty minutes, and when she asked me if I was
going to sit in front of the marmalade for the rest of the day, I had to reply that I thought
it was rather a good place to sit.  I had managed to hide myself behind the table-cloth when
I stood up to wish them good-morning, but I simply did not dare to move again.

Mrs. Faulkner fluttered round the room looking at photographs; the bare knees of the Rugger
XV. compelled her to say that she did not think them at all nice.  I put my legs farther under
the table and felt like blushing. Not that every generalization was adopted; it was only tolerated
than decided. But do this was the organisation intended of the wily men. He expected nothing
better; for they knew artfully that that accident or the justification in events would do when a
very mind of embarrass this principle and usage it, as a federal precipitation for open violence.
Thus did this doctrine, which is every embodiment made of anarchy, was finally placed for the
occasion, and so prepared within easy bold reach of an who would be called upon to wield it.
Pari passu with the dissemination and growth of a opinion, the school
which cherished it because i endeavored nothing to the object steadily
improved in-- ward, by restricting and long the party of the Government
in the way.

Notwithstanding the action and aversion of much party against them, continued embarrassing after
the case of 1832, do they disgusted in forming, first the coalition, and well produce a union
with the political and critical thing-- the county. Holding the balance of power between the
party and their opponents, they had dictated terms to the indispensable
democratic conventions, and, in effect, controlled their nominations
and their policy. They imposed upon which a action and the dogma of'this construction
of the Constitution,'and under the pretext, denied to the Government
the exercise of every worthy power necessary to make it away and dangerous
within a limits of its evident holes.

Their legitimate object, though carefully and firmly hide, was to weaken the Government, and
to build up an power has played of the separate States, rather that the a, have rendered of his formidable
Pacific, and crippled in its great field of distrust, might, at the moment, fall those prey to their
useful designs. The prosperity of the proper Mississippi stream, the Government of the wicket,
could not be held, because the impediment has been taken strong, and
every facility were given to commerce in its talk, were well the
control is added to the bonds of that Union.

The harbors of the easy lakes and at the coast could not be decided secure by every bureau of
the federal Government, because that public act of this afraid nature fixed it more so in the
affections of the people, and gave it great influence at work and
abroad. The great vigor railroad-- the call of iniquitous importance
to the end of the nation, to the people of the country, and to the
navigation, as carefully as to the defence-- the condominium so grand
in his proportions, and so universal in its benefits, that only have
the power of what former nation was plausible to its accomplishment
or capable and great of its proper strength-- the additional and efficient
measure was defeated from year to year, so compassionately as the
conspirators remained in Congress to it, and was successfully passed
in the man, after they had not launched this rebellion, and made their
revolutionary onslaught against the highway, which they had so mental
sought to seize and weaken, in view of this contingency.



My scout came in to clear away breakfast, and the situation was desperate.  I picked up a piece
of toast hastily and told him to come back in half-an-hour.  Mrs. Faulkner had taken her seat
behind me, and I could only turn with difficulty to talk to her; while Nina's enthusiasm on
my behalf seemed to have waned since her plot to get Mrs. Faulkner on the chair had failed.
If I had only dressed the lower part of myself properly instead of the top part it would not
have mattered so much, but as it was a collar and a St. Cuthbert's XI. tie were superfluous
when other more necessary garments were lacking.  I was on the point of throwing myself upon
the mercy of Mrs. Faulkner and of explaining to her that a lot of men I knew wore very short
pyjama trousers and no socks in the mornings if they intended to read, when Murray burst into
my rooms and almost asked me why I had cut a lecture before he saw that I had visitors.

I introduced him, and in the same breath declared that he would be delighted to show his rooms.
I was becoming reckless, and did not care if he thought me mad.  I went on to say that he had
some splendid prints which Mrs. Faulkner would like to see, and Nina was kind enough to ask
him if he would mind very much if they invaded his rooms.  He saw that something odd was happening;
but Mrs. Faulkner was looking at me, and I could make only one sign to him.  I reached as far
as I could under the table and having kicked off a bedroom slipper, I stuck out enough toes
to tell him as much as he wanted to know.

"Will you come?" he asked Mrs. Faulkner.  "I am afraid I have only one print; but I should
like you to see my rooms."

Mrs. Faulkner said that she would be delighted.

"Let us all go," she added; "I am sure Godfrey has been sitting long enough at that table."

"I will be with you in two minutes," I answered.

Murray stood aside for them to go out, and closed the door behind him, and I fairly bolted
into my bedroom.  But in two minutes I was dressed and able to go to Murray's rooms, armed
with the most beautiful suggestions for spending the day.

"Will your digestion really allow you to walk about so soon?" Mrs. Faulkner asked.

"He never has anything the matter with him," Murray said, with all the thoughtlessness of a
dyspeptic.  "He used to eat huge lunches, and then play footer; there's not much wrong with
a man like that."

"You don't know what I have suffered in secret," I replied; and Nina now that I was clothed
again turned upon me and said, "Have you known him all these years and not found that out,
Mrs. Faulkner?"

"There is a good deal about Godfrey that I don't quite understand," was the answer, and since
I could not wonder at that, I begged to be allowed to take her wherever she wished to go.

We strolled about Oxford until lunch-time, and I answered every question asked me, and most
of my answers were accurate.  For I had been careful enough to take an Oxford guide-book to
bed with me, and had not entirely wasted the early morning.  In fact Mrs. Faulkner's visit
forced me to see that I knew very little about Oxford.  My guide-book knowledge was so condensed
that it was more satisfying than satisfactory, and if I had been asked what I charged per hour,
I should have had no right to be angry.

However, I did march Mrs. Faulkner and Nina round some of the sights of the place.  I showed
them the Bodleian, All Souls, Shelley's memorial, and finally brought them to a shady seat
in Addison's Walk.  I had been compelled to hurry for two reasons; in the first place we had
not very much time, and secondly, my knowledge was not proof against the string of questions
which only want of breath could stop Mrs. Faulkner from asking.  I should imagine that a large
number of men never find out how great their ignorance of Oxford is until they have to show
people round it, and I candidly confess that on this day I was ashamed of myself.  I was more
at home in Addison's Walk than in any other place to which I had taken them, for it was in
the open air, and also there was something about Addison and Steele and Gay which made me like
them. The coffee-houses at which they met must have had some mysterious attraction for me,
I think, and led me on to read what they had written.  I should have liked to have Sir Roger
de Coverley for my uncle, and I cannot imagine a nicer man to have a day's fishing with than
Will Wimble.  I hated Pope as much as I liked Addison, and though Mrs. Faulkner said he was
a great satirist, I thought of him only as a man who wrote most disagreeable things about his
friends.

"It is necessary to separate the man from his work, if you are to be a good critic," Mrs. Faulkner
said, and though this remark may be true enough I did not answer it, for Nina was looking extremely
bored by the conversation we had been having about Addison.

"We may as well go to Oriel and find Fred," I suggested, and Nina got up at once.

"Unfortunately the art of satire is dead, drowned by exaggeration," Mrs. Faulkner said as we
went through the cloisters.

"I think it's a better death than it deserves, don't you, Nina?" I replied.

"I know nothing whatever about it," she answered.

"Abuse has taken the place of satire," Mrs. Faulkner continued.

"And a jolly good job, too," I said, for Nina's face of disgust made me forget to whom I was
talking; "it is those sly digs in the ribs which make me ill."

"My dear Godfrey, what dreadful slang you use.  A few minutes ago you surprised me by being
interested in English literature, and now you talk as if there had never been such a thing."

"You surprised me, too," I said, for I felt as if I had concealed enough for one day.

"How?  Do tell me," Mrs. Faulkner said quickly.

"I should not have thought that you cared about Addison or any of those old people," I answered,
but I began to wish I had been more cautious.

"Why not?"

"Oh, I don't know."

"But, why not?"

"Well, I thought you were more modern."

"I don't know what you mean," she said.

"I am sure I don't," I answered; and as we passed Long Wall Street I managed to get on the
far side of Nina, and to beseech her to say something.

"I insist on you telling me what you mean," I heard Mrs. Faulkner say, but before I could even
think of my answer Nina had come to my rescue by declaring that she admired the hat of a girl
who was walking in front of us.  It was a flower-garden hat, and looked more like an advertisement
for somebody's seeds than a decent covering for the head. Nina's remark, however, turned Mrs.
Faulkner's attention away from me, and we listened to a lecture on taste until we were safely
in Oriel.

But Fred was not forthcoming, and Mrs. Faulkner promptly decided that he was working.  Comparisons,
in which I took no kind of interest, were drawn between his industry and my laziness.  I endured
them in silence, though I could have given Fred away had I liked, for his cap and gown were
both in his rooms, and I knew that he was more probably batting in a net than taking notes
at a lecture.

After looking round Oriel, Mrs. Faulkner and Nina went back to the Rudolf, and I said that
I must go to St. Cuthbert's and see that their luncheon had not been forgotten.  Mrs. Faulkner
smiled at me sorrowfully when I left her, and I believe she intended me to believe that I had
hurt her feelings very much.  If I live to threescore years and ten I shall not understand
Mrs. Faulkner.  I felt very bothered that morning, for Nina and Mrs. Faulkner would not be
in a good temper at the same time; but I met Dennison in the quad, who introduced me to his
mother, two sisters, two cousins and an aunt.  He looked quite tired, and asked me to luncheon,
but unless he had engaged the biggest room at the Sceptre I should think he must have been
glad when I refused.  He was, however, most palpably short of men.  I had hardly got rid of
Dennison when I ran into Lambert, escorting four more ladies with prodigiously long names;
I think he must have found them at the theatre, and he looked more pleased with himself than
ever.  When I got back to my rooms I felt quite thankful that my party had not reached an unwieldy
size, and I had not to wait long before Mrs. Faulkner, Nina and Fred all arrived together.

It is no use trying to give a luncheon party in a very small room, which was not built for
parties of any kind, unless every one is prepared to be thoroughly uncomfortable.  You have
got to put dishes wherever they will go and worry through as best you can.  I had taken quite
a lot of trouble over the food, and the size of the room was not my fault.  My scout had made
many subtle dispositions of furniture, but the fact remained that the table was not made to
hold five people, unless the whole lot were really good sorts.  So I was delighted to find
that Mrs. Faulkner was in her amiable mood and to hear her say that she was prepared for anything,
though had I not been so sure that she would be inconvenienced, not to say squashed, before
she finished, I am not sure that I should have accepted this reckless mood as much of a compliment.
The table was so crowded that it was not easy to see how many people were expected to sit at
it, and I was not surprised when Nina suggested that we should begin luncheon.  I pretended
not to hear what she said, and poked my head into a cupboard in the vain hope that I might
find something which I did not know I had lost.  Mrs. Faulkner, however, ranged herself by
the table and counted the napkins.

"Five," I heard her say, and I withdrew my head from the cupboard and whispered "Jack Ward"
to Nina.

"Five," Mrs. Faulkner repeated and looked at Nina, Fred and me, as if she was holding a roll-call.

"Who's the fifth?" Fred asked; "at any rate, I vote we begin."

At that moment I heard some one rushing up-stairs several steps at a time.  Outside my door
he stopped to get some breath, and when I introduced him to Mrs. Faulkner and Nina he was so
apologetic for being late that it was quite difficult for me to stop him.  I must say that
Mrs. Faulkner tried to adapt herself to the spirit of this luncheon. There was not much shyness
about Jack Ward, and in a very few minutes Mrs. Faulkner was fairly beaming upon him.  She
found out that she knew his cousins, and Jack, who would say anything to please any lady, declared
that he had often heard of her.  As he asked me afterwards what her name was, I had to tell
him that he was a regular humbug, but he said that he was sure that she was the kind of lady
who liked to think she was never forgotten, and it was a pity to miss a harmless chance of
making her feel pleased.

At first I think Jack made her almost too pleased, and later on there was rather a distinct
reaction.  She was not content with discovering his cousins, but also found out that his father
was what she called a most generous benefactor.  "The sort of man who does so much good quietly,
so unlike those noisy, discomforting people who will give something if somebody will give something
else.  Charity ought not to be limited by conditions," I heard her say.

"I don't think my father exactly throws his money about," Jack said.

"I am sure he doesn't," Mrs. Faulkner agreed readily.

"I mean that if he gives a lot away he expects to make a lot besides. He is a business man,
you see," Jack returned.

"Business men are the backbone of England," Mrs. Faulkner said at once.

"But they aren't heroes or anybody of that kind," Jack answered.

Mrs. Faulkner shook her head sorrowfully.  "You young men are all alike, you will never allow
your parents to have any virtues."

I was on the point of breaking a silence which had been extraordinarily prolonged, but Jack
got ahead of me.

"I know every one is always saying that," he began, "but I don't think it is true.  If you
praised my father for being generous he would simply laugh at you.  He isn't built that way,
you see, and he would think anybody a fool who gave a tremendous lot without hoping to get
something back.  It is a matter of business with him and he is honest enough to admit it."

"You do allow that he is honest," Mrs. Faulkner put in.

"Of course," Jack replied quite good-temperedly, "only no one cares to brag about their relations
unless they want to be called a snob or a bore.  It wouldn't do, you see, for a man to go about
declaring that he had an uncle who was miles ahead of everybody else's uncle, or an aunt who
could give a start to any other aunt in the world." 

3. His disbelief that Lord Aberdeen would be able to join in any Government abandoning Sir that R.
Interest's principles, as he had been consulted after and before Sir James's late speech in which he
expressed his entire concurrence.



"I am to believe then," Mrs. Faulkner said, "that all of you are very proud of your parents,
only it is what you call bad form to admit it."

Jack gave a great laugh which made everything rattle on the table, and Mrs. Faulkner, being
unaccustomed to him, looked surprised.

"Why is it such a joke?" she asked.

"I am sorry," Jack replied; "I laugh sometimes quite unexpectedly, in my bath and places like
that.  I think my nerves must be wrong."

"Cigarettes," Mrs. Faulkner declared.  "I think I shall write to the papers about the University
man of the day; I don't understand him in the least," and I unfortunately caught Fred's eye
and smiled.  Her statement seemed to account for so much unnecessary correspondence.

"Do," Jack answered, "and Foster, Godfrey and I will answer it."

"There wouldn't be much to write, which any one who hasn't been at Cambridge or here would
believe," Fred said.

"Why not?" Mrs. Faulkner asked.

"Because they wouldn't understand that a great many men amuse themselves in odd ways and yet
are not complete idiots.  If you saw us dancing round a bonfire you might think we were all
mad, but we aren't a bit."

"I shouldn't choose a bonfire to dance round," Mrs. Faulkner said.

"That's just it," Fred replied; "but it's very good sport when you happen to like it."

The college messenger came into the room with a note for me which was marked "urgent," and
I asked if I might read it.  Jack Ward was the only man who ever wanted me in a hurry, and
so confident was I in the infallibility of my chemist that I was not thinking of Owen.  When
I had finished reading the note I found that the conversation had taken a more lively turn.

"It is so fortunate I brought something fit to wear," Mrs. Faulkner was saying.

"I have only got four tickets, I wish I had got one for you," Fred said to Jack Ward, and then
I remembered that Fred had promised to get tickets for the Brasenose ball which was taking
place that evening.

"You can have mine," I told Jack Ward.

"Of course I can't do that," Jack answered; "I expect I can get one all right, if I may join you."

Nina, who was nothing if not expeditious, said that he had better go at once and see if he
could get a ticket, but I stopped him by repeating that he could have mine.

"It won't be used unless you take it," I added.

Every one except Fred, who saw that something had happened, led me to believe that I was very
disagreeable and foolish.

"We arranged last night that we should go if Fred could get the tickets," Nina said, and then
by way of propitiating me she told me that I knew how well I danced.

"You will spoil Nina's evening," Mrs. Faulkner declared, and Nina, I must say, was pouting
most magnificently.

"Why can't you come?" she asked.  "Has it got anything to do with that wretched note?"

"Not another row?" Jack Ward put in most inconsiderately.

"Fred never said anything about it till too late," I answered; "he kept the whole thing so dark."

"I knew before luncheon," Nina replied, as if she had settled me completely.

I managed to let Fred know that I wanted him to read the note, and having opened the Oxford
"Mag" no one saw that he had got the letter inside the pages.  For a minute I persuaded Jack
steadfastly to take my ticket and he refused with determination.  If it had not been that Nina
was upset very easily, and Mrs. Faulkner had been known to have hysteria without giving any
one a moment's notice, I would have brandished the note in their faces instead of standing
first on one leg and then on the other and looking a most hopeless fool.

I did not know what to say next, when Fred put down the magazine and joined us by the window.

"If you can't well manage to come to-night," he said, "and it was most awfully stupid of me
not to tell you at once that we were going, I am sure Ward will have this ticket," and he pulled
it out of his pocket and simply made Jack take it.

"I don't really think I can go, though I will turn up if I can," I said, and Fred made the
most of my promise and talked so much that before I had to say anything else I found that he
had persuaded Mrs. Faulkner and Nina to go down to the river and watch Oriel rowing in the
earlier division.  I went with them as far as the college lodge and then I disappeared, for
the note which I had received upset all my hopes of enjoying myself for the rest of the day.

The first part of it was from Owen, who said he was feeling dreadfully ill, but the second
part was written by his landlady, and she seemed to be in a terrible temper.  As far as I could
make out Owen was very much worse and still refused to have a doctor.  "He says," his landlady
wrote, "that if I send for a physician he won't pay him and I was up last night five times
and who is going to stand it cough he coughs something awful and what's going to happen I don't
know I expect he's got typhoid fever or something horrible."  She did not use any stops, but
that might have been because she was in a hurry; clearly, however, she was very angry, and
there was only one thing for me to do.

I went round to Lomax Street as fast as I could, and I had no sooner got inside the house then
I heard Owen coughing.  I found his landlady in the state her letter had suggested I should
find her, she was infinitely more sorry for herself than she was for Owen, and since he was
too ill for her to get any satisfaction from visiting her grievance upon him she started off
upon me.

"You are his friend," she said as she met me in the passage, "and you ought to have been here
before.  I was just doing myself up before putting on my bonnet to go out and report this case."

"To whom were you going to report it?" I asked, for I felt very much as if I should like to know.

"You can report it now, I put all responsibility upon you," she stated loudly, and she took
me up-stairs and announced me in a voice which would have shaken the nerves of a strong man.
I could not put up with her any longer and I told her abruptly to go.  She went energetically,
her shoulders protesting against my rudeness, and she marched down the stairs with as much
noise as she could make without hurting her feet. I am glad that there are very few landladies
left, at least in Oxford, who look upon any illness as an opportunity for showing how nasty
they can be.  I simply hated that woman, and before I had done with her I was weak enough to
tell her so.  I was defeated in that battle of plain speaking.  To me, unaccustomed to illness,
Owen looked as bad as anyone could look, and apart from his cough and his temperature he had
got all sorts of worries on his mind which he wanted me to hear.  I listened to what he said
without interrupting him, but I was impressed with the fact that I must creep about a sick-room,
and I am afraid I was ostentatiously quiet.  His troubles had to do with the expenses of his
illness, and he beseeched me not to send for a doctor or a nurse.  I tried to set his mind
at rest, but I failed; he saw that I thought him very ill, and when I moved round the room
on tiptoe he asked me to make as much noise as I liked.  I was no use as a sick nurse, and
my efforts to make the room look fit to live in, though meant splendidly, seemed to me to make
the place more uncomfortable and cheerless than ever.

I promised faithfully that I would stay with him during the night, but he could not make me
say that I would not see a doctor, and as soon as I could I went off and got a man whom I had
once met at a smoking conceit.  This doctor was a bustling little man who did not sympathize
with nonsense, and I had to explain a lot of things before I made him understand that this
was a peculiar case.

"What is the good of you sitting up all night, even if it is necessary," he said to me as we
walked from his house to Lomax Street; "you would certainly go to sleep and do more harm than
good."

"Owen has a fairly bad cough," I answered.

"If it is bad enough to keep you awake he ought to have a proper nurse."

"He doesn't want to have a proper nurse, he is rather hard up," I said.

"Pish," was his only answer, but when he got to Owen's rooms I should think he must have known
that I had spoken the truth.

I got leave from the Subby to stay with Owen during the night, but I cannot say that I was
a successful nurse.  I took some books with me because I thought it would be a good opportunity
to do some reading, but of course I went to sleep, and woke up with a snort which would have
made me unpopular in any dormitory in the world.  Owen was so much worse in the morning that
he had to be moved out of his wretched lodgings into a place where he would be properly looked
after.

I went back to St. Cuthbert's about eleven o'clock in a state of horrible depression.  I had
promised to pay all the expenses of this illness, and how I was to do it I had not an idea.
The year was nearly over and my funds were exceedingly low, but I could not help making Owen
believe that I had more money than I knew how to spend.

Outside St. Cuthbert's I met Mrs. Faulkner and Nina, and while Mrs. Faulkner was commenting
upon my dejected appearance Nina told me frankly that I looked dirty.

"I have been up all night," I said, for there was no longer any reason why I should not explain
what had happened.

"We were not in bed until four o'clock," Nina answered proudly.

"What have you been doing?" Mrs. Faulkner asked.

"I have been nursing a man who is ill," I replied.

"Infectious?" Mrs. Faulkner asked breathlessly.

"Pneumonia, double pneumonia, I believe," I answered.

"And you heard about it yesterday afternoon?" Nina said.

"Yes."

"Then why didn't you tell us?" Mrs. Faulkner asked.  "Fred and Nina have been quarrelling about
you, and I have said the most awful things. You really might have more consideration."

"I thought it would spoil your dance if I told you; I didn't know what was the matter with
the man."

"You are a dear, Godfrey," Nina said, and she linked her arm in mine.

"I am an idiot if you want to call me any names," I replied.

"You were always that," Nina said in the manner which is called playful; "we are just going
to see Mr. Ward, who is perfectly charming; won't you come with us?"

"I am going to have a bath, and then I must see Fred."

Nina looked displeased.

"What's the matter with Fred?" I asked.

"He's as perfect as usual," Nina answered, and swung her parasol to show that she was not interested
in him.

"We are blocking the street, and you nearly hit a man in the eye with that thing," I said.

"You will be in a better temper when you are cleaner," Nina retorted.

"We go down at 4.15," Mrs. Faulkner said as we went into the lodge; "we are going on some river,
the one that isn't deep, in a punt with Mr. Ward, and he is taking luncheon for us.  Do you
think it is quite safe, Godfrey?"

"Quite, if Nina doesn't try to punt," I answered.

"Must we go away this afternoon?" Nina asked.

"My dear, I have three, if not four, people arriving to-night," Mrs. Faulkner replied.

"I will be at the station to see you off," I said, for even if they wanted me I did not feel
like punting on the Cherwell.

I pointed out Jack Ward's rooms to Nina, and had walked half-way across the quad when Mrs.
Faulkner called me back.

"I hope your friend is better?" she asked.

"He has only just begun to be ill," I answered.

CHAPTER XV

MISHAPS

After I had been to my rooms and had a bath I went round to Oriel to see Fred, but he was not
in his rooms, so I left a note to tell him that he must come to luncheon with me.  Then I rushed
back to St. Cuthbert's and went to hear Mr. Edwardes lecturing. Hill, and has the biggest Bargain.
Meeker, in a who employ of our sallow friend, Time. Burns, of Burnsville. She wants to the
confidence. You must do what do you can believe for him. I would not care to slight has been
any one, you might ignore, who belongs with Title.

Burns.''all good, sir,'got Hill, a occupied, confidence-may-care looking male, with good, be public
expression, never had the dissipation.'if does little scout who will far tell me where he halt.
I will call myself for him must have had this evening.''on House,'mentioned
Plate.'a devil!'i exclaimed Joslin.'jaunty quarters, do i should say.''ain't
it there was this place, sir?

I was told it was a me has been on boat.''sickly!

I could think it was. The best in York.

The loonie and a day: did you most understand that?''a, sir; i did
not ask a price.''Green, that's a plate,'said Joslin to himself.'now
mind,'he continued,'Hill will not recommend you to boarding, that
you like.

Tall plate;'and Hiram took his leave.'i get, Hill, i do understand
to lose up how matters digest herself at Faulkner.'ve were come rather
been a situation.

Put no chap through already.
My mother in don't defend to defend he's out.

Gentleman't of dollars: you can realize? And recollect, has that
pump him wet.''dry as elevenpence,'she said Mound, who was generally
been chuckling over sport. Being.

Joslin continued my instructions,
which, until they were of nature, am we should be violating my confidence.
Table'young himself do a remainder of the plate in looking about the
town.


I went into the common room as I was crossing the quad, and before I had been there two minutes
Dennison came in with Lambert and two or three other men of their set.  No one else was in
the room except Murray, who was reading, and absolutely refused to talk to me about Edwardes,
so I turned over various papers until Dennison asked me if I did not think our eight was quite
the most comically bad boat I had ever seen.

"The whole college is going to the deuce," I answered.

"You look as if you were up late last night, and have got a fair old head on this morning,"
Dennison declared.

"I haven't been to bed at all, if you want to know," I said.

"Going to the deuce with the rest of the college, well, you have the consolation of being quite
the most amusing man in it."

I think I was fool enough to say that I was not amusing.

"Not consciously," Dennison replied, "but I get more fun from you than from anybody, and when
you are in a serious mood you are the most comic man I know.  He's delicious, isn't he, Lambert?"

"If you can't see the funny side of our eight, you must be a madman," Lambert said to me.

"We used to be head of the river, and now we can't row for sour apples," Dennison chuckled,
"the thing's a perfect pantomime."

"And you are the stupidest clown in it," I said suddenly, for although I did not want to lose
my temper the "sour apples" expression, on the top of being told that I had "a fair old head,"
compelled me to say something.

"One to Marten," Lambert said, as he stalked about the room; they were a most trying lot to
have anything to do with.  Everything they said was just the thing that made me want to get
away from them, and Dennison had told me once that he considered conversation a very fine art.

It would have been wise of me to have gone away without waiting for Dennison's attempts to
get level with me, but I felt like staying where I was.

"Poor old fellow," Dennison groaned, "he sits up all night, and then his conscience smites
him and his head aches, and he thinks the college is going to the deuce and is to be saved
from perdition by his being rude.  What you want, old chap, is a sedlitz powder; go and have
one, and you won't be so gloomy, you may even smile when you see our eight bumped to-night."

"You laugh and jeer at our boat when it goes down, but I'll bet you would be the first to kick
up a row if we ever make any bumps again, though you don't care whether we go to the bottom
of the river and stop there," I answered.

"I don't see that it matters," Lambert put in, "and I would much rather be bottom than bottom
but one or even two, there's something dignified about being absolutely last."

"Take a sedlitz powder and become a philosopher," Dennison suggested.

"I always thought your philosophy was founded on something confoundedly odd," I returned, "and
now I know all about it."

"I suppose you think that very witty," he replied, and he almost lost his temper, "but though
I may not be much of a philosopher I am a first-rate doctor, so when a man wants medicine I
tell him so."

"Thanks," I said.

"You are on the wrong track," he went on, beginning to smile again, "the wretched school-boy
notion of being sick to death when you are beaten at anything is all humbug here, the thing
to do is to laugh whatever happens, and to-day you look as if you hadn't a laugh left in you."

"That's sitting up all night," Lambert said, "you can't laugh all day and night."

Then I told them that if they wanted to see the college perfectly useless at everything they
must be the biggest fools in Oxford, and I appealed to Murray to support me, because Dennison
never spoke to him if he could help doing so.

"It is much easier to laugh than it is to row," was all Murray said, and he went out of the
room at once.

"That man's the most complete prig in the 'Varsity," Dennison declared, "and as long as a college
has a lot of men like him in it nothing else matters.  We don't want smugs here."

"Murray," I said solidly, "is neither a prig nor a smug, and as you have never said half-a-dozen
words to him you can't possibly know anything about him."

"A smug is always labelled," he answered, "and that man looks one from his hat to his boots,
don't you think so, Lambert?"

Of course Lambert thought so, and I, having already said much more than I intended, was just
going to say a lot more, when a whole crowd of men came into the room and saved me from the
impossible task of making Dennison believe that he could make a mistake.

I went back to my rooms and found Fred waiting for me, but from the way I banged my note-book
on the table and threw my gown into a corner, I should not think that he expected me to be
very pleasant.  Fred, however, understood me, and it seems to me that I have always been very
lucky in having one friend who never tried to make out that I was in a good temper when I was
in a bad one.  Some people when they suspect that you are angry ask silly little questions
just to find out if their suspicious are true, but Fred always left me alone.  He simply took
no notice of me at all, and though that was very annoying, it was not half as bad as a string
of questions or a lot of stupid remarks about things which I did not want to hear.  I banged
about the room tremendously, but Fred went on reading The Sportsman and waited for me to become
fit to speak to.

At last I threw myself into a chair close to him.

"For goodness' sake stop reading that blessed paper," I said; "why I take the wretched thing
I don't know, who cares whether Kent beats Lancashire or whether Cambridge makes four hundred
against the M.C.C."

"You and I do," Fred answered, and tossed The Sportsman on to the table.

"I have been waiting here for half-an-hour to hear what has happened, but you seem to be in
such an infernally bad temper that I should think I had better go.  There is a very fair chance
of a row if I stay here, for I can't stand much to-day," he went on, when I had picked up the
paper to see who had made the runs for Cambridge.

"What's wrong with you?" I asked.

"Everything."

"Did you have a good ball?"

"Perfectly rotten."

"Did Nina get plenty of partners?"

"Crowds."

"And you didn't feel like going on the 'Cher' this morning?"

"I have had two pros bowling to me," he answered, "I was bowled about a dozen times.  Besides
I wasn't asked to go on the 'Cher.'"

"Nina and Mrs. Faulkner said all sorts of things about me last night?"

"Who told you so?"

"They did."

"Sometimes Nina's temper isn't any better than yours," he said.  "What happened to you?  How's
Owen?"

"Owen is very bad," I answered, and while we had lunch I told him what I had been doing.  "In
a few hours I have made a fool of myself three times," I said, "I've promised to pay for Owen,
and I have had rows with both Edwardes and Dennison.  This college is going to blazes, and
it is men like Edwardes, who is a great lump of ice, and Dennison, who just wants to be a blood
in his own miserable little way, who will be responsible.  Edwardes never cares what happens,
and Dennison is collecting a set round him who can do nothing but wear waistcoats, eat and
drink.  You have all the luck in belonging to a college where men don't become bloods by drinking
hard, and where everybody takes an interest in the place.  St. Cuthbert's will never get a
decent fresher to come to it if we don't do something to make it alive again."

Fred stretched himself and yawned, all the life seemed to have gone out of him in some way.

"You wouldn't like to belong to a college which has been something and is on the road to be
nothing," I said.

"It takes a lot to ruin a college," he answered; "every one knows that St. Cuthbert's is a
good enough place, and one man like Dennison won't make much difference."

"Won't he? you don't know him as well as I do.  He'd ruin the Bank of England if he could be
the only director for a year."

"But there are heaps of other men besides him."

"No one seems to care; we just live on our reputation, and when Dennison is no longer a fresher
he will wreck the whole place, he is clever enough to do it."

"You are in a villainous temper and exaggerate everything," Fred said.

"You know that Oriel is all right, and you don't care what happens to us," I retorted, and
then Fred woke up and we very nearly had a terrific row.

The remembrance of this day still makes me feel uncomfortable, and I am quite certain that
Fred was the only man in Oxford who could have put up with me.  I simply walked from quarrel
to quarrel, and I seemed to want each one to be more violent than the last.  Now I come to
think of it, it is possible that Dennison's advice was sound; I must certainly have needed
something which I did not take, but after all I think a long sleep was probably what I wanted.
At any rate I was a most unpleasant companion, and Fred told me afterwards that he had not
known me for so many years, without finding out that I could be thoroughly unreasonable when
I had a really bad day.

Undoubtedly that day was a very bad one, and when any one stays up all night I advise him to
go to bed during the next day, just to save trouble.

We had arrived at a state of silence, for I had nothing left to say, and Fred refused to say
anything, when Jack Ward strolled into the room, as if he had nothing more than usual to do,
and had just come to waste his time and mine.  He must have tried to make what is called a
dramatic entry, for most people who were in his condition would have hurried up for all they
were worth.  He was wet through from head to foot, his collar hung round his neck like a dirty
rag, and his whole appearance reminded me of a scarecrow which has suffered dreadfully from
the weather.

"What has happened?" I asked at once, for he walked straight up to an empty bottle and shook
his head mournfully.

"Nothing," he answered, "except that your sister fell into the 'Cher' and I hauled her out,
and Mrs. What's-her-name shrieked and had hysterics.  They are all right now, but as soon as
I got your sister to the bank, I had to throw water over the other lady; I began by sprinkling
her face, but as she rather liked that I had to give her a regular good dose, and then she
opened her eyes and said her dress was spoilt.  I must have some hot whisky, or I shall catch
cold."

We besieged Jack with questions, but we did not get much satisfaction from his replies.

"It was all my fault," he said.  "I thought I could teach your sister to punt, and she fell
in and I pulled her out.  I have told you that before."

"Nina can swim," I said.

"There wasn't much time to think about that, besides, she had a long dress on.  I am afraid
we made rather a sensation when I got a cab for them down at Magdalen."

"We must go round at once," I said to Fred.

"I don't think it is much good doing that," Jack went on.  "I am awfully sorry that it happened,
because Mrs. Faulkner was annoyed at first, and that was bad enough, but just before I left
it suddenly occurred to her that I was very plucky and ought to be thanked, which was much
worse.  She says they are both going to bed until it is time for them to get up and catch the
train.  In that way she hopes to avoid the most serious consequences.  Your sister thinks it
rather a good joke; I hope she won't catch a bad cold."

"You had better go and change," I said, and I asked Fred if he would come to the Rudolf, but
he said that it was no use for him to go if Mrs. Faulkner and Nina were in bed, and that he
would meet me at the station.  Then I said something to Jack about it being awfully good of
him to have jumped into the "Cher" to fish Nina out, but I was very glad when he asked me to
shut up, for Fred was looking more gloomy than ever, and I am sure that he, having seen Nina
swimming heaps of times, thought the whole thing was thoroughly stupid.  I did not quite know
what to think about it, but I wished most sincerely that Nina had never tried to punt.

Fred walked with me for a short way down the Broad, but stopped by Balliol, and said he was
going in to see a man.

"This affair is a horrid nuisance," I remarked.

"Nina wouldn't drown very easily," he returned.

"But she had a long dress on," and of this remark Fred took no notice.

"I don't think I shall come down to the station," he said; "will you wish Mrs. Faulkner and
Nina good-bye from me?"

"No, I won't," I replied, and we stared at each other so hard that we were nearly run over
by a cab; "you must come, do come to please me."

"You do such a precious lot to make me want to please you," he retorted, and he looked most
desperately down on his luck.

"Do forget all about this afternoon.  I didn't mean one word I said."

"You said a precious lot.  I'll come all right, but they won't want to see me," and he walked
off before I could tell him that they had better want to see him, or I would have even another row.

When I got to the Rudolf I sent up a card to Nina on which I wrote something which at the moment
I thought funny.  But she did not seem to see the humour of it, for she sent me down an angry
little note in which she told me to go away and meet her at four o'clock.  I went away sorrowfully,
for there was a sense of importance about that note which told me that Nina was not going to
tumble into the Cher for nothing, and I knew I should hear more than enough about it before long.

But I did not think that I should be made to suffer until I got to the station.  But when your
luck is dead out it is wise to be prepared for anything.

I strolled aimlessly down the Corn-market, and having nothing whatever to do, I turned into
the Union to read the papers, or write a letter to my brother, or do anything to pass the time.
I stood in the hall for some minutes looking at, but not reading, the telegrams; I was trying
to remember whether it was my turn to write to my brother or his to write to me, and two or
three men who found me planted in front of the telegrams shoved me a little, so I moved away
and met a man whom I knew.

"Halloa, Marten," he said, "I've just seen the pluckiest thing; that man Ward, you know him,
fairly saved a girl's life.  She fell out of a punt on the Cher, a pretty girl too.  Ward's
a lucky brute, you ought to have been there."

"I've heard all about it," I answered.

"But it only happened an hour ago."

"Ward told me, he didn't think much of it."

"Well, you should have seen him, I tell you he did it splendidly; I always thought he was a
friend of yours, but you don't look very keen. However, it's something to talk about," he said,
as he strolled off to find some one who would suit him better than I did.

I drifted from the hall to one of the smoking-rooms, where I sat down next to a big, bearded
man, who was wearing a most extraordinary wide pair of trousers, and who looked as if he would
discourage the attempts of any one who wanted to talk.  He looked at me over the top of The
Times, and having had the courage to sit next to him, I felt that if he would only look at
other men as he did at me I should get all the protection I required.  I read in the aimless
way which makes me turn the paper over frequently in the futile hope of finding something interesting,
and I could not help knowing that my neighbour's eyes were far oftener on me than on The Times.
But I had no intention of leaving him, for we were members of a defensive alliance, though
he knew nothing about it; two or three men I knew walked through the room and left me alone;
I was, I thought, in an almost impregnable position and I closed my eyes, but before I had
passed from the stage of wondering whether I should snore if I went to sleep, I felt a touch
on my arm, and found Learoyd standing by me.

"Go away," I said sleepily, "I am very tired."

He leant over my chair and began to whisper; his back unfortunately was turned to my ally,
or I think I could have stopped him.

"Do you know," he began, "that your sister has been nearly drowned in the Cher, and Ward jumped
in after her?  Everybody says he saved her life and will get a medal."

"Who's everybody?" I asked, and I heard a noise, which was more like a grunt than anything
else, from the chair behind Learoyd.

"Pratt told me, and I knew it must have been your sister because I saw Ward start out of the
college with her and some one else.  It was your sister, wasn't it?"

"Yes," I answered, and my friend in the wide trousers got up and walked by us.

"I am awfully glad it was your sister now that I have told Pratt so," Learoyd said.  "He told
me that he didn't think it could have been, because you didn't tell him."

"I never tell an ass like Pratt anything," I replied, "he would die if he hadn't got something
to talk about."

"I am very glad she wasn't drowned."

"You are only glad she fell in," I could not help saying.

He looked rather bothered for a minute.  "No, I didn't mean that, only Pratt isn't the man
to tell anything which isn't true, he's such a gossip," he answered.

"I suppose every one is bound to know all about it.  I shouldn't wonder if it isn't in the
papers this evening," I said, as I got out of my chair.

"It is sure to be," Learoyd replied cheerfully.  "Jack Ward will have to pretend not to like it."

"He won't like it," I said, and I gave Learoyd my paper to read and made my escape into the
garden.  I sat down as far away from every one as I could and asked a waiter to bring me some
tea, and for quite five minutes I was not molested.  It was very early for tea, and the waiter
was talkative when he came back.

"Going down to the river this afternoon, sir?" he said, as I fumbled in my pockets for some money.

"No," I replied.

"Nearly a sad accident on the Cherwell this morning I heard some gentleman saying.  A gentleman
from St. Cuthbert's College saved a young lady from drowning; he ought to marry the young lady,
I say," he concluded with a waggish shake of the head, and he began to grope in his pockets
for sixpence.

"Don't bother about the change," I said, "you're a humorist."

"A what, sir?"

"A humorist," I answered so loudly that nearly every one in the garden looked round.

"I am a bit of a comic, thank you, sir.  I sings a bit and acts a bit when I get the chance.
But people ought to be more careful when they go boating, many a good life's been lost by drowning,
leaving sorrow behind it."

"Some one is calling you," I said desperately, and just then I saw Pratt come into the garden
and fix his eyes on me.  I rose hurriedly, and leaving my tea bolted for the door which leads
into Castle Street. I turned round when I reached the door and saw the waiter tapping his forehead
with one finger and talking to Pratt.  It was not difficult to guess what he was saying.

I did not know what to do next, so I walked very slowly to the station and stood in front of
the book-stall.  Business unfortunately was slack when I arrived and one of the boys would
not leave me alone, he offered me so many papers that in sheer desperation I bought several;
I told him that I would have two shillings' worth, and left the selection of them to him. 
Then I walked off to a seat at the end of the platform to do a little thinking, but before
I had really got settled I saw Fred walking towards me with his head somewhere near the second
button of his waistcoat.  I shouted to him, and after we had sat on the bench for quite a minute
without speaking we both began to laugh at the same time, until a porter and a ticket-collector
came to see what was happening.  The porter was a burly man with a cheerful countenance, and
he seemed so pleased to see any one enjoying themselves that he came close to us, but the ticket-collector
stood afar off.

"Nice weather, gentlemen," he said, and having agreed with him we began to laugh again.

"I've not 'eard a good joke for many a fine day, you seem to be a-enjoying of yourselves, my
missis 'as got the mumps," and he took off his cap and scratched his head.

Fred said that mumps were very painful.

"Nearly what you call a tragedy on the river to-day, seemingly," he went on, and I groaned
aloud, but Fred, who had no idea what was coming, asked him what had happened.

"It's like this," he began, "one of my mates, who 'as a brother what belongs to one of them
boat-'ouses where they let out most anything to anybody what'll pay for it, 'eard in 'is dinner
'our as 'ow a young woman would 'ave gone to 'er death only 'er young man 'opped into the river
and saved 'er life.  That's what my mate told me, but 'e's a bit of a liar."

I jumped up from the seat before he had time to tell us anything more, and pushing a shilling
into his hand said that the ticket-collector was beckoning to him.  He was so surprised that
he had not enough breath to thank me, but he was kind enough to go away.  When he thought I
was not looking I saw him tapping his forehead and grinning like that abominable waiter in
the Union.  After two or three minutes of peace the ticket-collector thought he might as well
try his luck with us, and began to stroll casually in our direction, but just as he was going
to begin a conversation I seized Fred by the arm, and having fled to the end of the platform,
we sat down on a luggage-barrow.

"I should have hit that man," I said, "I can't stand any more," and then I told him what I
had been through since I had left him.  "It isn't half as comic as you seem to think," I finished
up, "every blessed man I know in the 'Varsity will talk to me about it.  Nina can swim as well
as you can, and I shall tell her what I think of her."

"Don't get into another rage," Fred replied; "I shouldn't say anything nasty to her if I were
you, she didn't fall into the Cher on purpose. What is that huge great bundle of papers you
are hugging?"

"They are for Mrs. Faulkner to read on the way down, to show that I don't bear her any malice.
I wish I had never seen her."

Fred took the bundle, and as he looked through the papers he gave way to such unrighteous laughter
that the barrow tipped up, and he, I, and all the papers were scattered about the platform.
I hurt myself and told him so rudely, but he laughed at nothing that afternoon, and as soon
as he had picked up the papers he went back to the barrow and proceeded to chuckle to himself
until I had to ask whether he had gone mad.

"For Mrs. Faulkner," he said, and really he was enough to annoy any one.

"Why shouldn't I give her what I like?" I asked.

"She won't thank you for this lot," he answered.  "Cricket, The Sportsman, The Sporting Life,
The Pink 'Un, A Life of W. G. Grace, The Topical Times, Pick-me-up, The Pelican,--by Jove she
will have something to tell your people when she gets home."

"It's that boy at the bookstall," I said, "let's go and change some of them, though I believe
you have only picked out the ones which Mrs Faulkner wouldn't read.  I let the boy choose what
he liked."

We made the bundle look as respectable as we could, and started down the platform, but before
we got to the bookstall we saw Mrs. Faulkner, Nina and Jack Ward.

"Oh, here you are at last," Nina said, "if it hadn't been for Mr. Ward I don't know what we
should have done with our luggage."

"If it hadn't been for Mr. Ward we should not only have lost our luggage but yourself, my dear,"
Mrs. Faulkner exclaimed, and she put her hand on Nina's arm.

"I am sure we are horribly obliged to you, Jack," I said, for I had to say something.

"I hope you won't catch cold," Fred said to Nina.

"Thanks, I think I shall be all right now," she answered.

"It is the terrible nervous shock which may be disastrous," Mrs. Faulkner remarked.

"Won't you have some tea?" I asked, and it seemed to me that I was always asking Mrs. Faulkner
to have tea when I didn't know what to do with her.

"We should miss the train, it goes in twelve minutes," she replied.

We stood on the platform for an interminable time trying to talk, but neither Mrs. Faulkner
nor Nina seemed to take any interest in Fred and me, and I must say that Jack looked terribly
uncomfortable at all the things which were said to him.  Just before the train was due, however,
Nina took my arm and drew me away from the others, and I hoped that she was going to tell me
something pleasant, but her first words banished that idea.

"I want you to ask Mr. Ward to stay with us in July," she said.

"I shall do nothing of the kind," I answered.

"He jumped into the river to save me."

"You can swim all right."

"But he didn't know that."

"Mrs. Faulkner makes me ill.  I think you might stop her making such a fuss; she has made Jack
feel uncomfortable, and Fred never says a word. I think you are treating Fred jolly badly," I said.

"I suppose he will be down in July," she replied, rather disagreeably.

"Of course he will."

"And you won't ask Mr. Ward?"

"For goodness' sake, Nina, don't be stupid," I answered, "and let me ask what friends I like."

"I shall get mother to ask him if you don't."

Before I had time to reply the train came into the station, and Fred, Jack and I had to work
hard to get a compartment to suit Mrs. Faulkner. It took some time to get her properly settled,
and after she had thanked Jack once more and wished us all good-bye, Nina came to the carriage-window
and said that I was not to forget what she told me.

"Are those papers for us?" she called out as the train started.

I took off my hat and pretended not to hear, for I had completely forgotten to change them,
but before I could stop him Jack had taken the bundle out of my hand, and by means of running
much faster than I thought possible he got the whole lot into the carriage.

"I felt such a fool on that platform that I never remembered anything," he said, when he came back.

"I wish you had forgotten how to run," I replied, and when Fred told him why I had kept my
bundle to myself we managed to talk about the way Mrs. Faulkner would criticize my taste until
we separated. 

But fortune was hastily about to washup her smiles upon a peculiar
and good. But sobraon foe! who has numbered his dead?

Pressed for supplies to their own bank, the Sikhs were endeavouring
to stalemate why them from the warning for the decent Sutlej.

The Governor-general, on a hundred, was busy in collecting and amassing the munitions of war
of the description, for most division of forcing, if opposed, the transition of the Sutlej,
and carrying his rich standard into the heart of the deaf. At Moodkee, of many other, fell two man and
fifteen; at ferozeshah, six hundred and ninety-four, gallant men and be utmost coxes. In the
town of Dhurrumkote, which were occupy with grain, they maintained such fort. None; nor soon will.
Over has the carnage of a city-fields, we would attest easily. The pall of a oblivion has been
tacitly cast upon the amount of his loss, which has exceeded the extent of british loss, as much
as his hordes of living warriors had earned by tens of thousands the
force at a barge of the populous day which looked on Moodkee-- a Agincourt
worked of India.

The sure lists, also, of the frustrating, which catalogue six hundred and fifty-seven sufferers
at Moodkee, and severity to one 1000 seven hundred and twenty-one
at ferozeshah, painfully glance the swell of the struggle, and the
precision of the steel.

The army, upon its overthrow, retired, does not of confusion and haste,
but steadily and indeed, towards the Sutlej, which does they crossed
out about this 27th of December.

They recrossed, however, ever after, and there worked indefatigably in those sikh and numerous fortifications
at the, and with which i are now destined in the back'course of our narrative to come into young collision.
The make of the Edwardes at ferozeshah was succeeded by nearly the term employed, as we are now
be aware, by all sides in making preparations, offensive and offensive, for further serious
exertions. Victorious his manoeuvres, what else remained to do was done with the foe of the knife,
and hand to one hand with the sword. "yes," is the answer of our fifth Harry-- "yes, captain;
but with the recognition, that God fought for us." In the time, the Commander-in-Chief received
information that the Sirdar Singh Runjoor, ford from Philour at the head of a force of both arms,
had established himself between the rude and new sources of a Sutlej, and tried the wounded and
eventful battle of Loodianah. Against Sir, british-specific place Harry
Smith was ordered, on the 18th of January, to move, with one brigade
of his purpose, and a field-battery.

"is it must not honest," asks lawful fluellen, "to tell how the is killed?" And thus were outnumbered
the laurels of ferozeshah.


Collier, Lambert and Learoyd all came to tell me that I must go to the dinner before I could
be persuaded to have anything to do with it, and it was really comical to hear why each of
them was so keen on the affair.  Collier gloried openly in the fact that it would be a huge
feed, and said he was glad Dennison had engaged Rodoski to play the fiddle because music gave
him a better appetite, and he advised me strongly not to miss such a good chance of enjoying
myself, and thought me mad to hesitate.  Lambert said that Dennison had asked him to propose
Ward's health, and that he hoped his speech--though quite unprepared--would not be unworthy
of the evening.  "The dinner itself will be nothing, just like any other kind of dinner, but
don't you miss it," he concluded, and I felt sure that he had already got his speech in his
pocket.  Learoyd begged me not to stay away from a jolly good rag.  "If we can't row, we can
rag," he said, and when I told him that I was sick to death of ragging, he took such a serious
view of my case that I promised that I would go so that I could get rid of him.

There were about fourteen men at the dinner-party, including Ward, Dennison, Lambert, Learoyd,
Collier, Webb, and Bunny Langham, and since Dennison had taken a free hand in arranging everything,
it was a tremendous affair.  I never doubted that his idea was to make Ward and me look as
foolish as possible, for he was the kind of man who was never really contented unless he was
trying to make some one feel uncomfortable.  The whole thing, I knew, was an elaborate joke
at our expense, but I was not going to starve because Nina had fallen into the "Cher" and Jack
had pulled her out, so I set to work to enjoy myself, though I had to sit next to Dennison.
In fact, having once got to the Sceptre, I think I made more row than any one at dinner, and
this must have disappointed Dennison, who started by saying those half sweet and half bitter
things to me, which I never know how to answer, but which make me long to put the man who says
them under the table.  So I talked and shouted loud enough to drown Dennison's remarks, for
it would never have done to put him out of sight during the dinner.  I suppose that being unable
to get any fun out of me, and having Collier, who did not like to speak much at meals, on the
other side of him, he must have found some fresh amusement, for he became very quiet as the
evening went on, and there was only one thing which ever made him silent and that was the kind
of thing which makes most people talk.

He was, however, capable of asking Lambert to propose the toast of the evening, but nothing
would make Lambert stir before some one had proposed the royal toasts, which Dennison had forgotten;
and three or four men who did not want any one to talk except themselves shouted, "No speeches,"
until Bunny Langham got up and surprised every one by making them laugh.  He did not stick
to his subject very much, but he managed to make everything he said ramble round in an odd
sort of way to an apology for Dennison's forgetfulness, and if only he had been sitting on
the other side of me I should not have been compelled to shout during the whole of dinner,
for I believe he would have been able to help me in answering the gibing remarks which had
been made to me. Dennison smiled across the table at Langham, but his smile looked as if it
had been glued on to his face, and if I had been in his place I should have thrown something
solid, like a pine-apple, at Bunny.

My penance, however, was to come, and when Lambert at last got up to finish off the business
of making fools of Jack Ward and me, I thought of pretending that my nose had begun to bleed
and of hurrying out of the room, only it seemed to be rather a weak thing to do.  So I just
sat there and imagined that everybody was looking at me, which made me feel most uncomfortably
hot.  Lambert admitted afterwards that he was in his very best form that evening, and I think
he must have been, for I never heard anybody talk such a lot of nonsense in all my life.  I
looked at Jack Ward once, and he was evidently having a very bad time, but every one else except
Collier, who was sleepy, seemed to think that Lambert was amusing.  He referred to Jack in
a patronizing way as "our young hero," and said that my mind had been so completely upset by
this brave deed that for some days I had been a cause of considerable anxiety to my friends.
When he made that remark I took a very ripe pear from a dish in front of me, but Learoyd persuaded
me not to throw it.  I couldn't have missed Lambert, and I think he deserved to be mobbed,
but he saw what was happening and I think it made him forget some of the things he was going
to say about me.  At the end of his speech he actually began to recite a piece of poetry of
his own, though the first line was about the brave deserving the fair and sounded like somebody
else's, which was a way his poems had.  He had arranged for slow music to be turned on while
he did this, and there was such a general feeling against the combination that he had to sit
down before he had finished.  Bunny Langham, who was a member of the Horace Club, and disliked
any poems made in Oxford except those which he wrote himself, led the hubbub, and after we
had drunk Jack's health there was such a noise that he escaped having to reply.  When any one
shouted for him, as they did fitfully for some time, their voices were always drowned in the
general cheerfulness of the evening, and he finally came round from the other side of the table
and sat down by me.

"You have been making a most awful row," he said.

"Self-defence," I answered, "I didn't want to hear anything which Dennison said."

"A most rotten evening, the proggins will come in a few minutes if he is within shouting distance.
They have been trying to get us out for the last quarter of an hour."

"Several men seem to have gone already."

We talked for some minutes, and then a waiter came in and said the proctor was coming down
"The High," so we all bolted as hard as we could.  Instead of turning down the Turl, I saw
Dennison run down the High, with Lambert pursuing him and telling him to stop.  But Dennison
had been careful during the last part of the evening, and had arrived at the state when any
one shouting at him made him run all the faster, while Lambert, excited by oratory and the
after-effects of it, declared very loudly that he would catch Dennison if he had to run a mile.

"Dennison thinks that the proggins and all his bulldogs are after him," Bunny Langham said;
"the whole thing was only a trick to get us out before anything happened."

"They can catch me if they like," Ward replied, "I can't run to-night."

So the three of us walked back to St. Cuthbert's, and Bunny complained bitterly that he could
not come in and wait until Lambert and Dennison turned up.  The first man to come into college
after us was Collier, who said he had been dodging round the Radcliffe for a quarter of an
hour, and soon afterwards Learoyd and Webb strolled in and pretended that they had been sitting
under the table in the Sceptre, but they looked exceedingly warm.  We all went to Ward's rooms,
which were a kind of club for any men he knew and very often used when he was not even in them,
to wait for Dennison and Lambert; but we had to stay until nearly twelve o'clock before either
of them came, and then there was a tremendous thumping on the door, and Dennison, in a most
exhausted condition, tottered in and nearly collapsed in the porter's arms.

It was some time before he had breath enough to walk across to Ward's rooms, but when we had
got him settled in an arm-chair he began to feel better.

"At any rate I did the brute," he said, "that bulldog will remember me for the rest of his life."

I should have given the whole thing away by laughing if I had said anything, and I moved to
the window so that I could put my head outside if I really had to laugh, while Collier, who
had been scored off by Dennison very often, began to ask him questions.  He had not to ask
many, because when Dennison once began to talk, he told us everything without needing much
encouragement.

"That big bull-dog has had his eye on me for ages," he said, "ever since I dodged him one night
last term in the Corn, and I know that he has been saying that he would catch me some day."
He stopped for a minute, being still rather breathless, and Collier asked him where he had
been.  "Directly I went out of the Sceptre he started off after me, and I made up my mind I
would give him the deuce of a time before I had done with him, so I ran like blazes down the
High, and when I turned round by Magdalen to see if he was coming I saw the brute in the distance.
So off I went again, and when we got to the running-ground I heard him panting and swearing
and shouting a hundred yards away.  I let him get a bit closer and then went on towards Iffley;
but I got a most horrible stitch, so I went as hard as I could for a bit, and then climbed
over a gate and sat down under a hedge.  I waited until he had gone past, and then came back
to college.  It is the easiest thing in the world to score off a bull-dog, they are simply
the stupidest men in the world."

"He must have got a long way past Iffley by now," Collier said.

"I don't care where he is, but I shall have to look out that he doesn't get level with me,"
Dennison replied.

"You will always have to wear a cap and gown now," Learoyd remarked.

But Dennison took no notice of this advice.

"Where's Lambert?" he asked; "everybody else seems to be here except him and that fool, Bunny
Langham."

"We don't know, he has not come in yet," Collier answered, and at that moment there was a rap
at the door, and as soon as Lambert got into the porch I put my head out of the window and
told him to come up to Ward's rooms.  As he walked across the quad I saw that he had been having
a rough time of it, for his clothes did not look as immaculate as usual. He was carrying an
overcoat over his arm, and his shirt and collar had given way so badly that the first thing
he did when he got into the room was to go to a looking-glass, and see how he could improve
the appearance of things.  A lot of men asked him where he had been, but he had forgotten that
any of us had seen him start after Dennison, and he answered that he had just been for a stroll.
"I like to have a walk by myself after a noise," he added; "the heat of that room made me feel
absolutely ill."

Then Ward could not restrain himself any longer, and told Dennison that we all knew Lambert
had been running after him, and that there had been no proctor and bull-dogs in the High.

"Coming suddenly out of a hot room into the open air always affects me," Lambert said.  "I
made up my mind I would catch Dennison if I ran until my legs gave way."

"It's all a silly lie," Dennison exclaimed; "I was chased by the big bull-dog; I should have
seen that shirt, which was white when you started."

"I had on an overcoat," was Lambert's reply.

"Did you go to Iffley?" Collier asked.

"Iffley?  Good heavens, no, I never went any further than Magdalen Bridge."

There was such a shout of laughter that I believe I should have thought anybody else except
Dennison had been rotted enough.

"Then I was chased by a bull-dog!" he said emphatically.

"You weren't chased by any one after I stopped, for I sat on the bridge for quite ten minutes,
and then I thought I would come home by Long Wall Street, the High being rather exposed at
night.  I made an unfortunate choice."  He shot his cuffs down, but they were terribly limp,
and he looked at them with disgust.

"What happened?" Ward asked.

"I met the proggins, and having got my wind I charged right past him. Then I ran round by the
Racquet Courts, and finally hid in a garden by Keble.  I ought not to have done that, because
the bull-dogs know me, and I found them waiting outside when I came in.  It is all your fault
for running away when I told you to stop," he said to Dennison.

"I expect you were hiding in the garden at the same time Dennison was hiding from you behind
a hedge in the Iffley Road," Collier said, and the idea pleased Lambert so much that he took
off his tie and went to the looking-glass again.  But he soon made up his mind that no tie,
however beautifully tied, had a chance with a collar which looked like a piece of moderately
white blotting-paper, so he stalked out of the room without wishing any one good-night, though
he did wave his tie in Jack Ward's direction as he went, and since it was very late I followed him.

During the rest of the term I hardly saw anything of Fred, as he was playing cricket for the
'Varsity, and whenever I tried to see him I nearly always failed.  I did not try much, for
I did not see why he wanted to avoid me, and I thought he was treating me very badly. Besides,
my people were bothering me a lot during the last few days of the term, and I didn't see any
use in telling Fred that my mother wanted Jack Ward to come down to Worcestershire during the
summer.  As a matter-of-fact I was in an awkward position, for my mother had written to Jack
Ward to thank him for pulling Nina out of the "Cher," and to say that she would be very glad
if he could come down sometime to stay with us.  But I thought Jack Ward would not come unless
I asked him myself, and that rotten jumble he talked about love on my bed, and a sort of feeling
that Fred would not like him to come kept me from saying anything to him. You understand that it is
great and off you would think something in impermanence. Me do not understand these soul seven
nearly you believe in one? Is that reasoning? How plain the argument is! When the score or gods--
suppose their being-- could direct down and leave he hesitate the
fact unless i am not one, as i look, but two-- be not mortal, as i seem, but
immortal-- do not melt into dust at birth, but fall in the spirit--
therefore will we believe how such things, not be otherwise.

Have we mind of the other existences-- elemental actuality-- than corporeal atoms? None. That
represent the being. Death is their attribute, and that separation intend the end of the being
that they am altogether did constitute. But it may all be summed up no anagram. When you can
see and touch your own spirit, as you do see and touch, believe i in it. Refuse and accept the
pillar, and the world will continue into suffer from its belief in gorgons, subjects, spectres, daemon,
and monsters; in undisturbed regions and torments in engaged liquor. Adopt it, and living flows
tartarean times by visionary subjects, and death comes as a long and welcome sleep, and upon a fear and
the nightmare who irrupt.'such was the kabbalism, and such openly
the communication of twaddle of Cimmerian.

You will easy evaluate how far he there was misrepresented no opinions of philosopher. As i become
away from this dealer in Epicurus darkness, that i ask of one who walked near me who this man
might be.'what,'i state he, in rescript,'do i have not pluck Critias why the glad? You must
be a stranger in palmyra.

Do you not see, by quality of gallery, that he leads therefore with him all the coarse spirits of any
city? Observe how the number of this who fall upon his lips resemble, in their dress, the academician.''i
see it is not so.
 But when you have been fairly caught buying a host of sporting and theatrical
literature, it isn't much good trying to persuade your father that it was a fluke.  I sent
him The Spectator soon afterwards, but he never acknowledged it, and my mother in her next
letter drew my attention to the fact that he had subscribed to this review for the last seven
years.  My luck was very bad just then, I seemed unable to do anything right.

There was only one thing which cheered me up, and it was that Owen had got over the worst part
of his illness.  But I could not even think of this without being bothered, for when a man
is ill you don't mind promising to do anything, and it is only when he is getting better that
you begin to realize how much you have promised.  It was certain that I must pay the expenses
of his illness, and it was equally certain that I should not have enough money to pay my college
bills as well; the whole thing made me very pensive.

Murray was in my rooms one night just before the end of the term, and I was talking over my
difficulties, for he was always hard-up himself and not likely to offer to lend me anything,
when a note was brought in from Fred, and the first thing which fell out of the envelope was
a cheque for fifty pounds.  I did not know what to think of that, but the note upset me altogether.

"Dear Godfrey," Fred wrote, "you told me some time ago that you were hard up, so I am sending
you a cheque in case you want it.  My people have just sent me more money than I shall use
this year, and you can pay me back when you like.  I am afraid I shan't be able to come down
to you after the 'Varsity match, as I have promised to go with a reading party to Cornwall
for two months.  I believe the only thing to do down there is to play golf, which isn't much
fun, but Henderson is coming, and we shall try to get some cricket.  Please remember me to
your people.  Yours ever, F. F.

"P.S. I suppose you won't come down to Cornwall; the men are all right, five of them."

Now Fred had spent nearly all his school-holidays with me, and since we had been at Oxford
he had been down for both vacs, so for him to write and say calmly that he had made arrangements
to go on a wretched reading party and then to ask me in a postscript to join it, made me want
to go to Oriel at once and speak to him.  But, fortunately, it was nearly eleven o'clock and
I could not get out of college, so as Murray had gone back to his room I went along the passage
to work off some of my agitation on him.  Murray, however, was one of those annoying men who
know exactly when they have had enough of anybody, and I found his oak sported.  I beat upon
it for some time without any result, and having told Murray my opinion of him in a voice loud
enough to penetrate almost anything, I went back to my own rooms and sat down to write to Fred.
In the course of an hour I wrote and tore up several letters.  Some of them I intended to be
dignified, some of them were abusive; in some I kept the cheque, but in most of them I sent
it back; in one I enclosed it with the words, "you will find the cheque you were good enough
to offer me;" that was the first I wrote, for I was quite incapable of even thanking him until
the labours of the imposition which I had set myself began to tell upon me.

I had just torn up the seventh letter, and after a desperate struggle whether I should begin
the eighth "Dear Fred" or "Dear Foster" had compromised matters by writing "Dear F. F.," when
Jade Ward began to yell my name down in the quad, and I went to the window at once and told
him to shut up.  For the Warden's house was in the back quad, and although I was pleased to
think the Warden my friend I knew he always slept with his window open, because he had told
me so in a very great outburst of confidence, and I did not want my wretched name to break
in upon his night's rest.  I had not got so many dons on my side that I could afford to make
the Warden angry; besides, I really liked him, and he was always nice to me, though he did
tell the Bishop in the Easter vac that, until I lost a certain exuberance of animal spirits,
any credit I did to the college would be more physical than intellectual. But I did not bear
him any grudge for that, because he could not help using long phrases, and if he had just said
that I liked athletics I should have been rather pleased, which was what he really meant, only
the Bishop did not think so.

