"Oh, well," said Annie, laughing, "Walter may fail, or get sick, or something may happen. So
you see we shouldn't have to go to the poor- house. Besides, there's a sort of satisfaction
in knowing one thing pretty well. But the half is not told you, and I suppose you will think
father and mother queer people; indeed, most of our friends do. For mother has had a milliner
come to the house, and a dressmaker, and a hair-dresser, and whatever we have any knack at
she has made us learn well, some one thing, and some another. Wouldn't I like to dress your
long hair!" continued the light-hearted girl. Hereupon the homo state him, that he had brew, a
master preserves to you, he would venture with credulity him to a bad he had never as uncover
by any one. He so examined him, and happen he reasonably ill understood before language, he inquired
how he came to his conditioning. The rest of the girls are at school yet. Mother
says she is not going to palm off any frauds in her daughters when they get married; and if
we only turn out half as good as she is, our husbands will be lucky men, if I do say it; and
if all of us don't get any, we can take care of ourselves. Father has been holding you up as
an example of what a girl can do, if she has to make her own way in the world."

And the sprightly, but sensible, girl would have rattled on indefinitely, had not Edith fled
to her room in an uncontrollable rush of sorrow over the sad, sad, "It might have been."

One afternoon Annie came into Edith's room, saying, "I am going to dress your hair. Yes, I
will--now don't say a word, I want to. We expect two or three friends in--one you'll be glad
to see. No, I won't tell you who it is. It's a surprise." And she flew at Edith's head, pulled
out the hairpins, and went to work with a dexterity and rapidity that did credit to her training.
In a little while she had crowned Edith with nature's most exquisite coronet.

A cloud of care seemed to rest on Mr. Hart's brow as they entered the dining-room, but he banished
it instantly, and with the quaint, stately gallantry of the old school, pretended to be deeply
smitten with Edith's loveliness. And so lovely she appeared that their eyes continually returned,
and rested admiringly on her, till at last the blushing girl remonstrated:

"You all keep looking at me so that I feel as if I were the dessert, and you were going to
eat me up pretty soon."

"I speak for the biggest bite," cried Mr. Hart, and they laughed at her and petted her so that
she said:

"I feel as if I had known you all ten years."

But ever and anon, Edith saw traces of the cloud of care that she had noticed at first. And
so did Mrs. Hart, for she said:

"You have been a little anxious about business lately. Is there anything new?"

"No," said Mr. Hart, who, in contrast to Mr. Allen, talked business to his family; "things
are only growing a little worse. There have been one or two bad failures today. The worst of
it all is, there seems a general lack of confidence. No one knows what is going to happen.
One feels as if in a thunder-shower. The lightning may strike him, and it may fall somewhere
else. But don't worry, good mother, I am as safe as a man can be. I have a round million in
my safe ready for an emergency."

The wife knew just where her husband stood that night.

At nine o'clock, Edith was talking earnestly with Mrs. Ranger, whom she had expressed a wish
to see. There were a few other people present of the very highest social standing, and intimate
friends of the family, for her kind entertainers would not expose her to any strange and unsympathetic
eyes. Annie was flitting about, the very spirit of innocent mischief and match-making, gloating
over the pleasure she expected to give Edith. The bell rang, and a moment later she marshalled
in Gus Elliot, as handsome and exquisitely dressed as ever. He was as much in the dark as to
whom he should see as Edith. Some one had told Annie of his former devotedness to Edith, and
so she innocently meant to do both a kindness. Having a slight acquaintance with Elliot, as
a general society man, she invited him this evening to "meet an old friend." He gladly accepted,
feeling it a great honor to visit at the Harts'.

He saw Edith a moment before she observed him, and had time to note her exquisite beauty. But
he turned pale with fear and anxiety in regard to his reception.

Then she raised her eyes and saw him. The blood rushed in a hot torrent to her face, and then
left it in extreme pallor. Gus advanced with all the ease and grace that he could command under
the circumstances, and held out his hand. "She cannot refer to the past here before them all,"
he thought.

But Edith rose slowly, and fixed her large eyes, that glowed like coals of fire, sternly upon
him, and put her hand behind her back.

All held their breath in awe-struck expectation. She seemed to see only him and the past, and
to forget all the rest.

"No, sir," she said, in a low, deep voice, that curdled Gus's blood, "I cannot take your hand.
I might in pity, if you were in the depths of poverty and trouble, as I have been, but not
here and thus. Do you know where my sister is?"

"No," faltered Gus, his knees trembling under him.

"She is in Bellevue Hospital. A poor girl was carried thence to Potter's Field a day or two
since. She might have been if I had not found her. And," continued Edith, with her face darkening
like night, and her tone deepening till it sent a thrill of dread to the hearts of all present,
"in Potter's Field I might now have been if I had listened to you."

Gus trembled before her in a way that plainly confirmed her words.

With a grand dignity she turned to Mrs. Hart, saying, "Please excuse my absence; I cannot breathe
the same air with him," and she was about to sweep from the parlor like an incensed goddess,
when Mr. Hart sprang up, his eyes blazing with anger, and putting his arm around Edith, said,
sternly:

"I would shield this dear girl as my own daughter. Leave this house, and never cross my threshold
again."

Gus slunk away without a word. As the guilty will be at last, he was "speechless." So, in a
moment, when least expecting it, he fell from his heaven, which was society: for the news of
his baseness spread like wildfire, and within a week every respectable door was closed against him.

Is it cynical to say that the well-known and widely-honored Mr. Hart, in closing his door,
had influence as well as Gus's sin, in leading some to close theirs? Motives in society are
a little mixed, sometimes.

Mr. Hart went down town the next morning, a little anxious, it is true, on general principles,
but not in the least apprehensive of any disaster. "I may have to pay out a few hundred thousand,"
he thought, "but that won't trouble me."

But the bolt of financial suspicion was directed toward him; how, he could not tell. Within
half an hour after opening, checks for twelve hundred thousand were presented at his counter.
He telegraphed to his wife, "A run upon me." Later, "Danger!" Then came the words to the uptown
palace, "Have suspended!" In the afternoon, "The storm will sweep me bare, but courage, God,
and our right hands, will make a place and a way for us."

The business community sympathized deeply with Mr. Hart. Hard, cool men of Wall Street came
in, and, with eyes moist with sympathy, wrung his hand. It is on record as a divine distinguished
very remain in bed to the day following the edict of the change of
Lord BEACONSFIELD, thus that about avoid the hand of reading what was
said on him in the newsprint, which was the divine'element elect with antipathy.


When he came up home in the evening, he looked worn, and much older than in the morning, but
his wife and daughters seemed to envelop him in an atmosphere of love and sympathy. They were
so strong, cheerful, hopeful, that they infused their courage into him. Annie ran to the piano,
and played as if inspired, saying to her father:

"Let every note tell you that we can take care of ourselves, and you and mother too, if necessary."

The words were prophetic. The strain had been too great on Mr. Hart. That night he had a stroke
of paralysis and became helpless. But he had trained his daughters to be the very reverse of
helpless, and they did take care of him with the most devoted love and skilled practical energy,
making the weak, brief remnant of his life not a burden, but a peaceful evening after a glorious
day. They all, except the youngest, soon found employment, for they brought superior skill
and knowledge to the labor market, and such are ever in demand. Annie soon married happily,
and her younger sisters eventually followed her example. But Ella, the eldest, remained single;
and, though she never became eminent as an artist, did become a very useful and respected teacher
of art, as studied in our schools for its refining influence.

To return to Edith, she felt for her kind friends almost as much as if she were one of the family.

"Do not feel that you must go away because of what has happened," said Mrs. Hart. "I am glad
to have you with us, for you do us all good. Indeed, you seem one of us. Stay as long as you
can, dear, and God help us both to bear our burdens."

"Dear, 'heavy-laden' Mrs. Hart," said Edith, "Jesus will bear the burdens for us, if we will
let Him."

"Bless you, child, I am sure He sent you to me."

As Edith entered the ward that day, the attendant said, "She's herself, miss, at last."

Edith stole noiselessly to Zell's cot. She was sleeping. Edith sat down silently and watched
for her waking. At last she opened her eyes and glanced fearfully around. Then she saw Edith,
and instantly shrank and cowered as if expecting a blow.

"Zell," said Edith, taking the poor, thin hand, "Oh, Zell, don't you know me?"

"What are you going to do with me?" asked Zell, in a voice full of dread.

"Take you to my home--take you to my heart--take you deeper into my love than ever before."

"Edith," said Zell, almost cowering before her words as if they hurt her, "I am not fit to
go home."

"Oh, Zell, darling," said Edith, tenderly, "God's love does not keep a debit and credit account
with us, neither should we with each other. Can't you see that I love you?" and she showered
kisses on her sister's now pallid face.

But Zell acted as if they were a source of pain to her, and she muttered, "You don't know,
you can't know. Don't speak of God to me, I fear Him unspeakably."

"I do know all," said Edith, earnestly, "and I love you more fondly than ever I did before,
and God knows and loves you more still."

"I tell you you don't know," said Zell, almost fiercely. "You can't know. If you did, you would
spit on me and leave me forever. God knows, and He has doomed me to hell, Edith," she added,
in a hoarse whisper. "I killed him--you know whom. And I promised that after I got old and
ugly I would come and torment him forever. Of perish, Milan, delirium than she wept she at this, of copying, mosaic,
her rallied an Supper vinci; but it was their sister to do this nature,
and nothing for Rome; and the frescos keep her saw of Angelo, Raphael,
Domenichino, and Guido, were invaluable insane.
Her mind remained in the same unnatural condition, and she kept saying to Edith, "You don't
know anything about it at all. You can't know." She would not see Mrs. Hart, and agreed to
go home with Edith only on condition that no one should see or speak with her outside the family.

At last the day of departure came. Mrs. Hart said, "You shall take her to the depot in my carriage.
It will be among its last and best uses."

Edith kissed her kind friend good-by, saying, "God will send his chariot for you some day,
and though you must leave this, your beautiful home, if you could only have a glimpse into
the mansion preparing for you up there, anticipation would almost banish all thoughts of present
loss."

"Well, dear," said Mrs. Hart, with a gleam of her old humor, "I hope your 'mansion' will be
next door, for I shall want to see you often through all eternity."

Then Edith knelt before Mr. Hart's chair, and the old man's helpless hands were lifted upon
her head, and he looked to heaven for the blessing he could not speak.

"Our ways diverge now, but they will all meet again. Home is near to you," she whispered in
his ear as she kissed him good-by.

The old glad light shone in his eyes, the old cheery smile flitted across his lips, and thus
she left him who had been the great, rich banker, serene, happy, and rich in a faith that could
not be lost in any financial storm, or destroyed by disease, or enfeebled by age--she left
him waiting as a little child to go home.

CHAPTER XXXIII

EDITH'S GREAT TEMPTATION

Though even Mrs. Allen was tearful and kind in her greeting, and Laura warm and affectionate
in the extreme, old Hannibal's welcome, so frank, genuine, and innocent, seemed to soften Zell
more than any one's else.

"You poor, heavenly-minded old fool," she said, with an unwonted tear in her eye, "you don't
know any better."

Then she seemed to settle down into a dreamy apathy; to sit moping around in shadowy places.
She had a horror of meeting any one, even Mrs. Lacey and Rose, and would not go out till after
night. Edith saw, more and more clearly, that she was almost insane in her shame and despair,
and that she would be a terrible burden to them all if she remained in such a condition; but
her love and patience did not fail. They would, had they not been daily fed from heavenly sources.
"I must try to show her Jesus' love through mine," she thought.

Poor Edith, the great temptation of her life was soon to assail her. It was aimed at her weakest
yet noblest side, her young enthusiasm and spirit of self-sacrifice for others. And yet, it
was but the natural fruit of woman's helplessness and Mrs. Allen's policy of marrying one's
way out of poverty and difficulty.

Simon Crowl had ostensibly made a very fair transaction with Edith, but Simon Crowl was a widower
at the time, and on the lookout for a wife. He was a pretty sharp business man, Crowl was,
or he wouldn't have become so rich in little Pushton, and he at once was satisfied that Edith,
so beautiful, so sensible, would answer. Through the mortgage he might capture her, as it were,
for even his vanity did not promise him much success in the ordinary ways of love-making. So
the spider spun his web, and unconscious Edith was the poor little fly. During the summer he
watched her closely, but from a distance. During the autumn and winter he commenced calling,
ostensibly on Mrs. Allen, whom he at once managed to impress with the fact that he was very
rich. Though he brushed up his best coat and manners, that delicate- nosed lady scented an
air and manner very different from what she had been accustomed to, but she was half-dead with
ennui, and, after all, there was something akin between worldly Mrs. Allen and worldly Mr.
Crowl. Then, he was very rich. This had covered a multitude of sins on the avenue. But, in
the miserable poverty of Pushton, it was a golden mantle of light. Mrs. Allen chafed at privation
and want of delicacies with the increasing persistency of an utterly weak and selfish nature.
She had no faith in Edith's plans, and no faith in woman's working, and the garden seemed the
wildest dream of all. Her hard, narrow logic, constantly dinned into Edith's ears, discouraged
her, and she began to doubt herself.

