"The book is of great practical value, as many of the essays throw a broad light over living
questions of the day. Professor McMaster has a clear, simple style that is delightful. His
facts are gathered with great care, and admirably interwoven to impress the subject under discussion
upon the mind of the reader."--Chicago Inter-Ocean.

STANDARD HISTORICAL WORKS.

The Beginners of a Nation.

By Edward Eggleston. Small 8vo. Gilt top, uncut, with Maps. Cloth, $1.50.

The Transit of Civilization,

From England to America in the Seventeenth Century. By Edward Eggleston. Uniform with "The
Beginners of a Nation." Small 8vo. Gilt top, uncut. Cloth, $1.50.

The Household History of the United States and its People.

By Edward Eggleston. For Young Americans.

Bancroft's History of the United States,

From the Discovery of the Continent to the Establishment of the Constitution in 1789. (Also
Edition de Luxe, on large paper, limited to one hundred sets, numbered.) Complete in six volumes,
with a Portrait of the Author. 8vo. Cloth, uncut, gilt top, $15.00; half calf or half morocco,
$27.00; tree calf, $50.00.

D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, NEW YORK.

HISTORIC LIVES SERIES.

A series of popular biographies dealing with famous men of all times and countries, written
in brief form and representing the latest knowledge on the subjects, each illustrated with
appropriate full-page pictures, the authors being chosen for their special knowledge of the
subjects.

Each 12mo, Illustrated, Cloth, $1.00 net.

Postage, 10 cents additional.

NOW READY.

Father Marquette, the Explorer of the Mississippi. By Reuben Gold Thwaites, Editor of "The
Jesuit Relations," etc.

Daniel Boone. By Reuben Gold Thwaites, Editor of "The Jesuit Relations," "Father Marquette," etc.

Horace Greeley. By William A. Linn, Author of "The Story of the Mormons."

Sir William Johnson. By Augustus C. Buell, Author of "Paul Jones, Founder of the American Navy."

Anthony Wayne. By John R. Spears.

Champlain: The Founder of New France. By Edwin Asa Dix, M.A., LL.D., Formerly Fellow in History
in Princeton University; Author of "Deacon Bradbury," "A Midsummer Drive through the Pyrenees,"
etc.

James Oglethorpe: The Founder of Georgia. By Harriet C. Cooper.

D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, NEW YORK.

A NEW VOLUME IN APPLETONS' HISTORIC LIVES SERIES.

Horace Greeley.

By William A. Linn, Author of "The Story of the Mormons"; formerly Managing Editor of the New
York Evening Post. Illustrated. 12 mo. Cloth, $1.00 net; postage, 10 cents additional.

It is remarkable that so little has been written about Greeley since he died; in fact, since
Parton's book appeared, just before the civil war, no one has undertaken a comprehensive life
of Greeley. Greeley's own autobiography, which he called "Recollections of a Busy Life," has
been the only later work of note to which readers could go, and that book has not been in general
circulation for a great many years. Mr. Linn's volume, therefore, should have a large public
waiting to receive it. The character of Horace Greeley is studied by Mr. Linn in his editorial
work. He traces his opinions as set forth in his editorial writings. In this way he shows how
he "grew up" to his earnest advocacy of a protective tariff; how he became the most powerful
opponent of the extension of the slave power, after looking on the subject almost with indifference
in his earlier years; his curious inconsistencies during the civil war, when he was a source
of constant interference with the Administration at Washington; and the circumstances that
led to his selection as the Liberal candidate for President in 1872.

"Every lover of America's great men should possess this life of Greeley."--Raleigh Observer.

"The best biography of Greeley yet written."--The Literary World.

