(24) VI. Lastly, that in Deut. chap. iii., in the passage relating to Og, king of Bashan, these
words are inserted: "For only Og king of Bashan remained of the remnant of giants: behold,
his bedstead was a bedstead of iron: is it not in Rabbath of the children of Ammon? nine cubits
was the length thereof, and four cubits the breadth of it, after the cubit of a man." (25)
This parenthesis most plainly shows that its writer lived long after Moses; for this mode of
speaking is only employed by one treating of things long past, and pointing to relics for the
sake of gaining credence: moreover, this bed was almost certainly first discovered by David,
who conquered the city of Rabbath (2 Sam. xii:30.) (26) Again, the historian a little further
on inserts after the words of Moses, "Jair, the son of Manasseh, took all the country of Argob
unto the coasts of Geshuri and Maachathi; and called them after his own name, Bashan-havoth-jair,
unto this day." (27) This passage, I say, is inserted to explain the words of Moses which precede
it. (29) The Hebrews in the time of the writer indisputably knew what territories belonged
to the tribe of Judah, but did not know them under the name of the jurisdiction of Argob, or
the land of the giants. (30) Therefore the writer is compelled to explain what these places
were which were anciently so styled, and at the same time to point out why they were at the
time of his writing known by the name of Jair, who was of the tribe of Manasseh, not of Judah.
(31) We have thus made clear the meaning of Aben Ezra and also the passages of the Pentateuch
which he cites in proof of his contention. (32) However, Aben Ezra does not call attention
to every instance, or even the chief ones; there remain many of greater importance, which may
be cited. (33) Namely (I.), that the writer of the books in question not only speaks of Moses
in the third person, but also bears witness to many details concerning him; for instance, "Moses
talked with God;" "The Lord spoke with Moses face to face; " "Moses was the meekest of men"
(Numb. xii:3); "Moses was wrath with the captains of the host; "Moses, the man of God, "Moses,
the servant of the Lord, died;" "There was never a prophet in Israel like unto Moses," &c.
(34) On the other hand, in Deuteronomy, where the law which Moses had expounded to the people
and written is set forth, Moses speaks and declares what he has done in the first person: "God
spake with me " (Deut. ii:1, 17, &c.), "I prayed to the Lord," &c. (35) Except at the end of
the book, when the historian, after relating the words of Moses, begins again to speak in the
third person, and to tell how Moses handed over the law which he had expounded to the people
in writing, again admonishing them, and further, how Moses ended his life. (36) All these details,
the manner of narration, the testimony, and the context of the whole story lead to the plain
conclusion that these books were written by another, and not by Moses in person.

(37) III. We must also remark that the history relates not only the manner of Moses' death
and burial, and the thirty days' mourning of the Hebrews, but further compares him with all
the prophets who came after him, and states that he surpassed them all. (38) "There was never
a prophet in Israel like unto Moses, whom the Lord knew face to face." (39) Such testimony
cannot have been given of Moses by, himself, nor by any who immediately succeeded him, but
it must come from someone who lived centuries afterwards, especially, as the historian speaks
of past times. (40) "There was never a prophet," &c. (41) And of the place of burial, "No one
knows it to this day."

(42) III. We must note that some places are not styled by the names they bore during Moses'
lifetime, but by others which they obtained subsequently. (43) For instance, Abraham is said
to have pursued his enemies even unto Dan, a name not bestowed on the city till long after
the death of Joshua (Gen. xiv;14, Judges xviii;29).

(44) IV. The narrative is prolonged after the death of Moses, for in Exodus xvi:34 we read
that "the children of Israel did eat manna forty years until they came to a land inhabited,
until they came unto the borders of the land of Canaan." (45) In other words, until the time
alluded to in Joshua vi:12.

(46) So, too, in Genesis xxxvi:31 it is stated, "These are the kings that reigned in Edom before
there reigned any king over the children of Israel." (47) The historian, doubtless, here relates
the kings of Idumaea before that territory was conquered by David [Endnote 10] and garrisoned,
as we read in 2 Sam. viii:14. (48) From what has been said, it is thus clearer than the sun
at noonday that the Pentateuch was not written by Moses, but by someone who lived long after
Moses. (49) Let us now turn our attention to the books which Moses actually did write, and
which are cited in the Pentateuch; thus, also, shall we see that they were different from the
Pentateuch. (50) Firstly, it appears from Exodus xvii:14 that Moses, by the command of God,
wrote an account of the war against Amalek. (51) The book in which he did so is not named in
the chapter just quoted, but in Numb. xxi:12 a book is referred to under the title of the wars
of God, and doubtless this war against Amalek and the castrametations said in Numb. xxxiii:2
to have been written by Moses are therein described. (52) We hear also in Exod. xxiv:4 of another
book called the Book of the Covenant, which Moses read before the Israelites when they first
made a covenant with God. (53) But this book or this writing contained very little, namely,
the laws or commandments of God which we find in Exodus xx:22 to the end of chap. xxiv., and
this no one will deny who reads the aforesaid chapter rationally and impartially. (54) It is
there stated that as soon as Moses had learnt the feeling of the people on the subject of making
a covenant with God, he immediately wrote down God's laws and utterances, and in the morning,
after some ceremonies had been performed, read out the conditions of the covenant to an assembly
of the whole people. (55) When these had been gone through, and doubtless understood by all,
the whole people gave their assent.

(56) Now from the shortness of the time taken in its perusal and also from its nature as a
compact, this document evidently contained nothing more than that which we have just described.
(57) Further, it is clear that Moses explained all the laws which he had received in the fortieth
year after the exodus from Egypt; also that he bound over the people a second time to observe
them, and that finally he committed them to writing (Deut. i:5; xxix:14; xxxi:9), in a book
which contained these laws explained, and the new covenant, and this book was therefore called
the book of the law of God: the same which was afterwards added to by Joshua when he set forth
the fresh covenant with which he bound over the people and which he entered into with God (Josh.
xxiv:25, 26).

(58) Now, as we have extent no book containing this covenant of Moses and also the covenant
of Joshua, we must perforce conclude that it has perished, unless, indeed, we adopt the wild
conjecture of the Chaldean paraphrast Jonathan, and twist about the words of Scripture to our
heart's content. (59) This commentator, in the face of our present difficulty, preferred corrupting
the sacred text to confessing his own ignorance. (61) What is to be done with persons who will
only see what pleases them? (62) What is such a proceeding if it is not denying Scripture,
and inventing another Bible out of our own heads? (63) We may therefore conclude that the book
of the law of God which Moses wrote was not the Pentateuch, but something quite different,
which the author of the Pentateuch duly inserted into his book. (64) So much is abundantly
plain both from what I have said and from what I am about to add. (65) For in the passage of
Deuteronomy above quoted, where it is related that Moses wrote the book of the law, the historian
adds that he handed it over to the priests and bade them read it out at a stated time to the
whole people. (66) This shows that the work was of much less length than the Pentateuch, inasmuch
as it could be read through at one sitting so as to be understood by all; further, we must
not omit to notice that out of all the books which Moses wrote, this one book of the second
covenant and the song (which latter he wrote afterwards so that all the people might learn
it), was the only one which he caused to be religiously guarded and preserved. (67) In the
first covenant he had only bound over those who were present, but in the second covenant he
bound over all their descendants also (Dent. xxix:14), and therefore ordered this covenant
with future ages to be religiously preserved, together with the Song, which was especially
addressed to posterity: as, then, we have no proof that Moses wrote any book save this of the
covenant, and as he committed no other to the care of posterity; and, lastly, as there are
many passages in the Pentateuch which Moses could not have written, it follows that the belief
that Moses was the author of the Pentateuch is ungrounded and even irrational. (68) Someone
will perhaps ask whether Moses did not also write down other laws when they were first revealed
to him - in other words, whether, during the course of forty years, he did not write down any
of the laws which he promulgated, save only those few which I have stated to be contained in
the book of the first covenant. (69) To this I would answer, that although it seems reasonable
to suppose that Moses wrote down the laws at the time when he wished to communicate them to
the people, yet we are not warranted to take it as proved, for I have shown above that we must
make no assertions in such matters which we do not gather from Scripture, or which do not flow
as legitimate consequences from its fundamental principles. (70) We must not accept whatever
is reasonably probable. (71) However even reason in this case would not force such a conclusion
upon us: for it may be that the assembly of elders wrote down the decrees of Moses and communicated
them to the people, and the historian collected them, and duly set them forth in his narrative
of the life of Moses. (72) So much for the five books of Moses: it is now time for us to turn
to the other sacred writings. 

"Bats, Monsieur."

"eh? How much?"

"Bats; tirlils, chauve-souris, pipistrelli... they will need these bottles. Six 100 tirlils in the
sack; ten day; six thousand tirlils. The carafe! Three thousand francs, Man. Shall i close
him?"

The tourer cast a look over speaking this who, off heaving with being.

"Expression hither," he state, "i'll come you fifty francs...."

The french was surprised and grieved. He think he was give the feeling to Man, who had asked
for bats. He had been obliged to borrow wealth from his arab mother to facilitation to each hundred
francs which he had already disbursed for assistance in a tirlils; it had gamble his living; there
were the instrumentality expenses, too: very heavy. He had travelled
with many Englishmen and had backwards found them to be men of honour--
men who keep their statement. And in the case there were witnesses
to much bargain, sacks would be ready, if strenuous, to go into the
prudent tribunals and certify to what they had heard.... "i understand.

Good,
give to-sacks morning, but come gently always, promptly! before I
in hundred your head. Occupy your curse tirlils to your damned funduk,
and be off!-- clear out!-- comprenni?"

And he looked so ever jewish
that much arab, a aged chap, walked now out of the room, more surprised
and grieved than very.

Appreciation sent to the disinterested
and necessary effort of the angry international lawyer, the least was
settled out of court after all-- fifteen break francs, plus expenses of transport.


(79) Lastly, from chap. x:14, it is clear that the book was written many generations after
the death of Joshua, for it bears witness, there was never any, day like unto, that day, either
before or after, that the Lord hearkened to the voice of a man," &c. (80) If, therefore, Joshua
wrote any book at all, it was that which is quoted in the work now before us, chap. x:13.

(81) With regard to the book of Judges, I suppose no rational person persuades himself that
it was written by the actual Judges. (82) For the conclusion of the whole history contained
in chap. ii. clearly shows that it is all the work - of a single historian. (83) Further, inasmuch
as the writer frequently tells us that there was then no king in Israel, it is evident that
the book was written after the establishment of the monarchy.

(84) The books of Samuel need not detain us long, inasmuch as the narrative in them is continued
long after Samuel's death; but I should like to draw attention to the fact that it was written
many generations after Samuel's death. (85) For in book i. chap. ix:9, the historian remarks
in a, parenthesis, "Beforetime, in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, thus he spake:
Come, and let us go to the seer; for he that is now called a prophet was beforetime called a seer."

(86) Lastly, the books of Kings, as we gather from internal evidence, were compiled from the
books of King Solomon (I Kings xi:41), from the chronicles of the kings of Judah (1 Kings xiv:19,
29), and the chronicles of the kings of Israel.

(87) We may, therefore, conclude that all the books we have considered hitherto are compilations,
and that the events therein are recorded as having happened in old time. (88) Now, if we turn
our attention to the connection and argument of all these books, we shall easily see that they
were all written by a single historian, who wished to relate the antiquities of the Jews from
their first beginning down to the first destruction of the city. (89) The way in which the
several books are connected one with the other is alone enough to show us that they form the
narrative of one and the same writer. (90) For as soon as he has related the life of Moses,
the historian thus passes on to the story of Joshua: "And it came to pass after that Moses
the servant of the Lord was dead, that God spake unto Joshua," &c., so in the same way, after
the death of Joshua was concluded, he passes with identically the same transition and connection
to the history of the Judges: "And it came to pass after that Joshua was dead, that the children
of Israel sought from God," &c. (91) To the book of Judges he adds the story of Ruth, as a
sort of appendix, in these words: "Now it came to pass in the days that the judges ruled, that
there was a famine in the land."

(92) The first book of Samuel is introduced with a similar phrase; and so is the second book
of Samuel. (93) Then, before the history of David is concluded, the historian passes in the
same way to the first book of Kings, and, after David's death, to the Second book of Kings.

(94) The putting together, and the order of the narratives, show that they are all the work
of one man, writing with a create aim; for the historian begins with relating the first origin
of the Hebrew nation, and then sets forth in order the times and the occasions in which Moses
put forth his laws, and made his predictions. (95) He then proceeds to relate how the Israelites
invaded the promised land in accordance with Moses' prophecy (Deut. vii.); and how, when the
land was subdued, they turned their backs on their laws, and thereby incurred many misfortunes
(Deut. xxxi:16, 17). (96) He tells how they wished to elect rulers, and how, according as these
rulers observed the law, the people flourished or suffered (Deut. xxviii:36); finally, how
destruction came upon the nation, even as Moses had foretold. (97) In regard to other matters,
which do not serve to confirm the law, the writer either passes over them in silence, or refers
the reader to other books for information. (98) All that is set down in the books we have conduces
to the sole object of setting forth the words and laws of Moses, and proving them by subsequent
events.(99) When we put together these three considerations, namely, the unity of the subject
of all the books, the connection between them, and the fact that they are compilations made
many generations after the events they relate had taken place, we come to the conclusion, as
I have just stated, that they are all the work of a single historian. (100) Who this historian
was, it is not so easy to show; but I suspect that he was Ezra, and there are several strong
reasons for adopting this hypothesis.

(101) The historian whom we already know to be but one individual brings his history down to
the liberation of Jehoiakim, and adds that he himself sat at the king's table all his life
- that is, at the table either of Jehoiakim, or of the son of Nebuchadnezzar, for the sense
of the passage is ambiguous: hence it follows that he did not live before the time of Ezra.
(102) But Scripture does not testify of any except of Ezra (Ezra vii:10), that he "prepared
his heart to seek the law of the Lord, and to set it forth, and further that he was a ready
scribe in the law of Moses." (103) Therefore, I can not find anyone, save Ezra, to whom to
attribute the sacred books.

(105) As, then, in Deuteronomy, we find not only the book of the law of Moses, or the greater
part of it, but also many things inserted for its better explanation, I conjecture that this
Deuteronomy is the book of the law of God, written, set forth, and explained by Ezra, which
is referred to in the text above quoted. (106) Two examples of the way matters were inserted
parenthetically in the text of Deuteronomy, with a view to its fuller explanation, we have
already given, in speaking of Aben Ezra's opinion. (107) Many others are found in the course
of the work: for instance, in chap. ii:12: "The Horims dwelt also in Seir beforetime; but the
children of Esau succeeded them, when they had destroyed them from before them, and dwelt in
their stead; as Israel did unto the land of his possession, which the Lord gave unto them."
(108) This explains verses 3 and 4 of the same chapter, where it is stated that Mount Seir,
which had come to the children of Esau for a possession, did not fall into their hands uninhabited;
but that they invaded it, and turned out and destroyed the Horims, who formerly dwelt therein,
even as the children of Israel had done unto the Canaanites after the death of Moses.

(109) So, also, verses 6, 7, 8, 9, of the tenth chapter are inserted parenthetically among
the words of Moses. Everyone must see that verse 8, which begins, "At that time the Lord separated
the tribe of Levi," necessarily refers to verse 5, and not to the death of Aaron, which is
only mentioned here by Ezra because Moses, in telling of the golden calf worshipped by the
people, stated that he had prayed for Aaron.

(110) He then explains that at the time at which Moses spoke, God had chosen for Himself the
tribe of Levi in order that He may point out the reason for their election, and for the fact
of their not sharing in the inheritance; after this digression, he resumes the thread of Moses'
speech. (111) To these parentheses we must add the preface to the book, and all the passages
in which Moses is spoken of in the third person, besides many which we cannot now distinguish,
though, doubtless, they would have been plainly recognized by the writer's contemporaries.

(112) If, I say, we were in possession of the book of the law as Moses wrote it, I do not doubt
that we should find a great difference in the words of the precepts, the order in which they
are given, and the reasons by which they are supported.

(113) A comparison of the decalogue in Deuteronomy with the decalogue in Exodus, where its
history is explicitly set forth, will be sufficient to show us a wide discrepancy in all these
three particulars, for the fourth commandment is given not only in a different form, but at
much greater length, while the reason for its observance differs wholly from that stated in
Exodus. (114) Again, the order in which the tenth commandment is explained differs in the two
versions. (115) I think that the differences here as elsewhere are the work of Ezra, who explained
the law of God to his contemporaries, and who wrote this book of the law of God, before anything
else; this I gather from the fact that it contains the laws of the country, of which the people
stood in most need, and also because it is not joined to the book which precedes it by any
connecting phrase, but begins with the independent statement, "these are the words of Moses."
(116) After this task was completed, I think Ezra set himself to give a complete account of
the history of the Hebrew nation from the creation of the world to the entire destruction of
the city, and in this account he inserted the book of Deuteronomy, and, possibly, he called
the first five books by the name of Moses, because his life is chiefly contained therein, and
forms their principal subject; for the same reason he called the sixth Joshua, the seventh
Judges, the eighth Ruth, the ninth, and perhaps the tenth, Samuel, and, lastly, the eleventh
and twelfth Kings. (117) Whether Ezra put the finishing touches to this work and finished it
as he intended, we will discuss in the next chapter.

CHAPTER IX  -  OTHER QUESTIONS CONCERNING THE SAME BOOKS: NAMELY, WHETHER THEY WERE COMPLETELY
FINISHED BY EZRA, AND, FURTHER, WHETHER THE MARGINAL NOTES WHICH ARE FOUND IN THE HEBREW TEXTS
WERE VARIOUS READINGS.

(1) How greatly the inquiry we have just made concerning the real writer of the twelve books
aids us in attaining a complete understanding of them, may be easily gathered solely from the
passages which we have adduced in confirmation of our opinion, and which would be most obscure
without it. (2) But besides the question of the writer, there are other points to notice which
common superstition forbids the multitude to apprehend. (3) Of these the chief is, that Ezra
(whom I will take to be the author of the aforesaid books until some more likely person be
suggested) did not put the finishing touches to the narrative contained therein, but merely
collected the histories from various writers, and sometimes simply set them down, leaving their
examination and arrangement to posterity.

(4) The cause (if it were not untimely death) which prevented him from completing his work
in all its portions, I cannot conjecture, but the fact remains most clear, although we have
lost the writings of the ancient Hebrew historians, and can only judge from the few fragments
which are still extant. (5) For the history of Hezekiah (2 Kings xviii:17), as written in the
vision of Isaiah, is related as it is found in the chronicles of the kings of Judah. (6) We
read the same story, told with few exceptions, [Endnote 11], in the same words, in the book
of Isaiah which was contained in the chronicles of the kings of Judah (2 Chron. xxxii:32).
(7) From this we must conclude that there were various versions of this narrative of Isaiah's,
unless, indeed, anyone would dream that in this, too, there lurks a mystery. (8) Further, the
last chapter of 2 Kings 27-30 is repeated in the last chapter of Jeremiah, v.31-34.

(9) Again, we find 2 Sam. vii. repeated in I Chron. xvii., but the expressions in the two passages
are so curiously varied [Endnote 12], that we can very easily see that these two chapters were
taken from two different versions of the history of Nathan.

(10) Lastly, the genealogy of the kings of Idumaea contained in Genesis xxxvi:31, is repeated
in the same words in 1 Chron. i., though we know that the author of the latter work took his
materials from other historians, not from the twelve books we have ascribed to Ezra. (10) We
may therefore be sure that if we still possessed the writings of the historians, the matter
would be made clear; however, as we have lost them, we can only examine the writings still
extant, and from their order and connection, their various repetitions, and, lastly, the contradictions
in dates which they contain, judge of the rest.

(11) These, then, or the chief of them, we will now go through. (12) First, in the story of
Judah and Tamar (Gen. xxxviii.) the historian thus begins: "And it came to pass at that time
that Judah went down from his brethren." (13) This time cannot refer to what immediately precedes
[Endnote 13], but must necessarily refer to something else, for from the time when Joseph was
sold into Egypt to the time when the patriarch Jacob, with all his family, set out thither,
cannot be reckoned as more than twenty-two years, for Joseph, when he was sold by his brethren,
was seventeen years old, and when he was summoned by Pharaoh from prison was thirty; if to
this we add the seven years of plenty and two of famine, the total amounts to twenty-two years.
(14) Now, in so short a period, no one can suppose that so many things happened as are described;
that Judah had three children, one after the other, from one wife, whom he married at the beginning
of the period; that the eldest of these, when he was old enough, married Tamar, and that after
he died his next brother succeeded to her; that, after all this, Judah, without knowing it,
had intercourse with his daughter-in-law, and that she bore him twins, and, finally, that the
eldest of these twins became a father within the aforesaid period. (15) As all these events
cannot have taken place within the period mentioned in Genesis, the reference must necessarily
be to something treated of in another book: and Ezra in this instance simply related the story,
and inserted it without examination among his other writings.

(16) However, not only this chapter but the whole narrative of Joseph and Jacob is collected
and set forth from various histories, inasmuch as it is quite inconsistent with itself. (17)
For in Gen. xlvii. we are told that Jacob, when he came at Joseph's bidding to salute Pharaoh,
was 130 years old. (18) If from this we deduct the twenty-two years which he passed sorrowing
for the absence of Joseph and the seventeen years forming Joseph's age when he was sold, and,
lastly, the seven years for which Jacob served for Rachel, we find that he was very advanced
in life, namely, eighty four, when he took Leah to wife, whereas Dinah was scarcely seven years
old when she was violated by Shechem, [Endnote 14]. (19) Simeon and Levi were aged respectively
eleven and twelve when they spoiled the city and slew all the males therein with the sword.

(20) There is no need that I should go through the whole Pentateuch. (21) If anyone pays attention
to the way in which all the histories and precepts in these five books are set down promiscuously
and without order, with no regard for dates; and further, how the same story is often repeated,
sometimes in a different version, he will easily, I say, discern that all the materials were
promiscuously collected and heaped together, in order that they might at some subsequent time
be more readily examined and reduced to order. (22) Not only these five books, but also the
narratives contained in the remaining seven, going down to the destruction of the city, are
compiled in the same way. (23) For who does not see that in Judges ii:6 a new historian is
being quoted, who had also written of the deeds of Joshua, and that his words are simply copied?
(24) For after our historian has stated in the last chapter of the book of Joshua that Joshua
died and was buried, and has promised, in the first chapter of Judges, to relate what happened
after his death, in what way, if he wished to continue the thread of his history, could he
connect the statement here made about Joshua with what had gone before?

(25) So, too, 1 Sam. 17, 18, are taken from another historian, who assigns a cause for David's
first frequenting Saul's court very different from that given in chap. xvi. of the same book.
(26) For he did not think that David came to Saul in consequence of the advice of Saul's servants,
as is narrated in chap. xvi., but that being sent by chance to the camp by his father on a
message to his brothers, he was for the first time remarked by Saul on the occasion of his
victory, over Goliath the Philistine, and was retained at his court.

(27) I suspect the same thing has taken place in chap. xxvi. of the same book, for the historian
there seems to repeat the narrative given in chap. xxiv. according to another man's version.
(28) But I pass over this, and go on to the computation of dates.

(29) In I Kings, chap. vi., it is said that Solomon built the Temple in the
four hundred and eightieth year after the exodus from Egypt; but from the
historians themselves we get a much longer period, for:
                                                                      Years.
Moses governed the people in the desert . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Joshua, who lived 110 years, did not, according to Josephus and
    others' opinion rule more than . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . 26
Cusban Rishathaim held the people in subjection . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
Othniel, son of Kenag, was judge for . . . . . . . . . . . [Endnote 15] 40
Eglon, King of Moab, governed the people . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
Ehucl and Shamgar were judges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Jachin, King of Canaan, held the people in subjection . . . . . . . . . 20
The people was at peace subsequently for . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . 40
It was under subjection to Median . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . 7
It obtained freedom under Gideon for . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
It fell under the rule of Abimelech  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Tola, son of Puah, was judge  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Jair was judge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . 22
The people was in subjection to the Philistines and Ammonites . . . . . 18
Jephthah was judge  . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Ibzan, the Bethlehemite, was judge  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . 7
Elon, the Zabulonite . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Abclon, the Pirathonite . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
The people was again subject to the Philistines . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Samson was judge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . [Endnote 16] 20
Eli was judge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
The people again fell into subjection to the Philistines,
    till they were delivered by Samuel .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
David reigned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Solomon reigned before he built the temple  . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . 4

(30) All these periods added together make a total of 580 years. (31) But to these must be
added the years during which the Hebrew republic flourished after the death of Joshua, until
it was conquered by Cushan Rishathaim, which I take to be very numerous, for I cannot bring
myself to believe that immediately after the death of Joshua all those who had witnessed his
miracles died simultaneously, nor that their successors at one stroke bid farewell to their
laws, and plunged from the highest virtue into the depth of wickedness and obstinacy.

(32) Nor, lastly, that Cushan Rishathaim subdued them on the instant; each one of these circumstances
requires almost a generation, and there is no doubt that Judges ii:7, 9, 10, comprehends a
great many years which it passes over in silence. (33) We must also add the years during which
Samuel was judge, the number of which is not stated in Scripture, and also the years during
which Saul reigned, which are not clearly shown from his history. (34) It is, indeed, stated
in 1 Sam. xiii:1, that he reigned two years, but the text in that passage is mutilated, and
the records of his reign lead us to suppose a longer period. (35) That the text is mutilated
I suppose no one will doubt who has ever advanced so far as the threshold of the Hebrew language,
for it runs as follows: "Saul was in his -- year, when he began to reign, and he reigned two
years over Israel." (36) Who, I say, does not see that the number of the years of Saul's age
when he began to reign has been omitted? (37) That the record of the reign presupposes a greater
number of years is equally beyond doubt, for in the same book, chap. xxvii:7, it is stated
that David sojourned among the Philistines, to whom he had fled on account of Saul, a year
and four months; thus the rest of the reign must have been comprised in a space of eight months,
which I think no one will credit. (38) Josephus, at the end of the sixth book of his antiquities,
thus corrects the text: Saul reigned eighteen years while Samuel was alive, and two years after
his death. (39) However, all the narrative in chap. Xiii. is in complete disagreement with
what goes before. (40) At the end of chap. vii. it is narrated that the Philistines were so
crushed by the Hebrews that they did not venture, during Samuel's life, to invade the borders
of Israel; but in chap. xiii. we are told that the Hebrews were invaded during the life of
Samuel by the Philistines, and reduced by them to such a state of wretchedness and poverty
that they were deprived not only of weapons with which to defend themselves, but also of the
means of making more. (41) I should be at pains enough if I were to try and harmonize all the
narratives contained in this first book of Samuel so that they should seem to be all written
and arranged by a single historian. (42) But I return to my object. (43) The years, then, during
which Saul reigned must be added to the above computation; and, lastly, I have not counted
the years of the Hebrew anarchy, for I cannot from Scripture gather their number. (44) I cannot,
I say, be certain as to the period occupied by the events related in Judges chap. xvii. on
till the end of the book.

(45) It is thus abundantly evident that we cannot arrive at a true computation of years from
the histories, and, further, that the histories are inconsistent themselves on the subject.
(46) We are compelled to confess that these histories were compiled from various writers without
previous arrangement and examination. (47) Not less discrepancy is found between the dates
given in the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah, and those in the Chronicles of the Kings of
Israel; in the latter, it is stated that Jehoram, the son of Ahab, began to reign in the second
year of the reign of Jehoram, the son of Jehoshaphat (2 Kings i:17), but in the former we read
that Jehoram, the son of Jehoshaphat, began to reign in the fifth year of Jehoram, the son
of Ahab (2 Kings viii:16). (48) Anyone who compares the narratives in Chronicles with the narratives
in the books of Kings, will find many similar discrepancies. (49) These there is no need for
me to examine here, and still less am I called upon to treat of the commentaries of those who
endeavour to harmonize them. (50) The Rabbis evidently let their fancy run wild. They stared
at each new in some time for silence.

At the moroccan enquired: "are you the man who sold me that piece
of cloth three weeks ago?"

"i am he." Then: "that other eye: how came you by it?"

There was another
pause. (53) If this can be shown to be the real meaning of the writer
of the book of Chronicles, all I can say is, that he did not know how to state a fact. (54)
The commentators make many other assertions of this kind, which if true, would prove that the
ancient Hebrews were ignorant both of their own language, and of the way to relate a plain
narrative. (55) I should in such case recognize no rule or reason in interpreting Scripture,
but it would be permissible to hypothesize to one's heart's content.

(56) If anyone thinks that I am speaking too generally, and without sufficient warrant, I would
ask him to set himself to showing us some fixed plan in these histories which might be followed
without blame by other writers of chronicles, and in his efforts at harmonizing and interpretation,
so strictly to observe and explain the phrases and expressions, the order and the connections,
that we may be able to imitate these also in our writings (17). (57) If he succeeds, I will
at once give him my hand, and he shall be to me as great Apollo; for I confess that after long
endeavours I have been unable to discover anything of the kind. (58) I may add that I set down
nothing here which I have not long reflected upon, and that, though I was imbued from my boyhood
up with the ordinary opinions about the Scriptures, I have been unable to withstand the force
of what I have urged.

(59) However, there is no need to detain the reader with this question, and drive him to attempt
an impossible task; I merely mentioned the fact in order to throw light on my intention.

(60) I now pass on to other points concerning the treatment of these books. (61) For we must
remark, in addition to what has been shown, that these books were not guarded by posterity
with such care that no faults crept in. (62) The ancient scribes draw attention to many doubtful
readings, and some mutilated passages, but not to all that exist: whether the faults are of
sufficient importance to greatly embarrass the reader I will not now discuss. (63) I am inclined
to think that they are of minor moment to those, at any rate, who read the Scriptures with
enlightenment: and I can positively, affirm that I have not noticed any fault or various reading
in doctrinal passages sufficient to render them obscure or doubtful.

(64) There are some people, however, who will not admit that there is any corruption, even
in other passages, but maintain that by some unique exercise of providence God has preserved
from corruption every word in the Bible: they say that the various readings are the symbols
of profoundest mysteries, and that mighty secrets lie hid in the twenty-eight hiatus which
occur, nay, even in the very form of the letters.

