"Nu-nah does not seem capable of the love of soul. She accepts me as a lover due her, and whose
attention and presence gratify her pride and vanity. Never once, or perhaps only once, have
I ever seen or imagined I saw a recognition of love, and that was the night of the full Moon,
during the recent ceremonies. As, with your permission, I for a moment drew near the couch
on which she reposed, she suddenly raised to a half-sitting position and seemed strangely startled
by my presence. With a thrill of hope, that finally love was awakening, I sprang forward and
spake anxiously and fondly to her. For the first time in all my life her glance vibrated to
my heart's very core. My brain reeled with intoxication as she pressed my hand, and the love
from her eyes burns now into my soul as I recall that one second of bliss. But, alas! she fell
back into her former lifeless state and lingers so until I am in doubt if after all it were
not some illusion connected with the wonderful Magic of that night."

"Nay," said the Hierophant, "I can assure you that what you experienced was real and that if
this matter reaches a successful issue you will henceforward find in Nu-nah all that your soul
desires, that ever will her eager spirit lead yours in the pursuit of knowledge and the highest
wisdom."

Then the Hierophant turning, mentally addressed Sarthia, the unseen witness of the interview,
"Am I not right in making this pledge for you to Rathunor? Think you we have also fulfilled
our promise that Rathunor shall love you?"

But her heart was too full to reply. He then directed her attention to her location and surroundings
and for the first time she became aware with amazement, almost terror, that she was within
"THE SACRED ADYTUM--THE HOLY OF HOLIES," while the Hierophant and Rathunor were within an adjoining
court and private apartment of the High Priest.

"My child," said the Hierophant in reply to her speechless inquiry as to the meaning of this
wonder, "there are no barriers to the disembodied soul. This place, so religiously guarded,
so inaccessible to the ordinary mortal, is open to any soul having passed a certain grade of
initiation into the divine mysteries of Nature and attained unto that purity of heart whereby
man may see his God.

"To-morrow night, on the occasion of the new Moon, will be consecrated within this Holy Chamber,
the union of your soul with that of Rathunor's and here also will be consummated that mystic
transfer between your soul and that of Nu-nah's.

"And now, I leave you here while I accompany Rathunor. As you gradually lapse into the sweet
silence of this Holy place, observe the meaning of some of the stupendous mysteries of Nature
revealed here openly to the one having eyes to see and possessing the gift of understanding."

Her first sensation on being left alone was, that she was floating like the vapor of a breath
upon the swaying wreaths of burning incense, and as she reclines thus in blissful repose there
dawned upon her vision a view of the vast Temple in its absolute entirety. It assumed the strange
outline of a gigantic human body, all its intricacies becoming orderly correspondencies of
the human organism in its multitudinous ramifications. Then all the vast ceremonial of this
body passed in review before her mind, each rite symbolic of some function, physical, mental
and spiritual, and she marveled at the adaptability of the parts to each other and then to
the grand whole.

But, above all, was she impressed by the depth in depths of meaning of this Sacred Adytum in
its symbolic relation to the whole structure. However, ere she could tarry to reflect, the
nature of the vision changed as if her eye had been turned suddenly from the lense of a Microscope
to that of an immense Telescope. Before her view stretched the starry Zodiac, in outline, the
same as its prototype, the human body--the Grand Temple. The Sun and its solar system corresponding
to various vital functions in the human organism, but the crowning wonder of all came as she
comprehended the relation which our planet, mother Earth, bore to the Grand Man of the skies,
and her soul was overwhelmed as all the implications of this relation rushed in upon her being.

CHAPTER V.

THE TRANSFER.

According to the calculations made by the chief Astrologer Priest it was just at midnight that
the conjunction of the luminaries took place in the Zodiacal sign belonging to the Moon. This
union of the luminous orbs of the day and night is powerfully magical in its results.

The vibrations, set in motion by this mighty union of the positive and negative forces of Nature,
react, not only upon the waters and the Earth, but the human family. Not only does the mighty
ocean obey this wonderful influence in the ebb and flow of its tides, but the Earth, as she
rotates upon her axis, obeys this mighty power and manifests in her depths and heights in her
serpentine movement about the Sun.

Nature's laws are very exact and man, to become the Arbiter of his own destiny, must blend
his energies in harmony with those of Nature.

Agreeable to appointment and the arrangements to be made it was necessary for the Hierophant
and the Holy men of the Temple to assemble at an early hour, although the Transfer was not
to take place until midnight.

Much preparation was necessary as a most momentous ceremony was to be performed this night;
one that rarely ever was performed, owing to the fact that few of the Temple Priests were initiated
into these sacred Magical Rites. They were too Sacred and Holy to be imparted to many, too
dangerous for possible failures, too infinite in responsibilities accompanying such undertakings.
Only those where the mind, soul and spirit, blended as one in their organism, were ever entrusted
with the interior knowledge of the Sacred Adytum--The Holy of Holies.

Only the invocations were to be made, the chants and ceremonies belonging to the Holy Sanctuary
were to be observed. The air was ladened with the sweet fragrance of incense and those subtle
perfumes that are so delightful and enticing to the soul. Hours before the solemn Rites were
to be performed, every part of the Holy Temple must be permeated with their magical and mystical
influence.

The bodies of both Sarthia and Nu-nah lay in state before the Altar in the Holy Sanctuary,
both robed and perfumed as if for burial.

The Hierophant of the Temple, the Priests and the Lay Priests, and the Priestesses with their
Vestal Virgins, were now assembled in their respective places.

The hour of midnight had arrived. The chants now begun, set in vibration the spiritual forces
that appeal only to the soul and spirit.

The subtle, silent will of the High Priest mentally commanded the presence of the departed
spirit of Sarthia. At his bidding, she came floating toward him, and when within a certain
distance from her inanimate body, she remained hovering over it. Most willingly and joyfully
she came, knowing the promise of the High Priest would be realized when she became able to
animate and control the body and mind of what was still Nu-nah's.

Rathunor was present at the urgent request of the Priest. He little dreamed why his presence
was so much desired, and how he, who was so ignorant of the Temple rules and service, could
be of any assistance.

A spark had been kindled within his very soul, the night that Sarthia found herself in Nu-nah's
temple and for a moment consciously remembered and spoke, that had been burning deeper and
deeper until now, it was ready to burst forth as an ever-living flame at the first breath of
hope that this new emotion was of the soul--real and immortal.

Did he dare for a moment listen to the whispering of the interior self? Fear alone made him
drive back and quell the monitions that sprang from within, for O, if they were only vain hopes
could he survive the disappointment? The thought was crushing, and better, he thought, not
to hope than believe an illusion.

The magnetic chord that yet held Nu-nah to her frail, prostrated body had not yet been severed.
The unconscious soul hung or rather floated about its temple, apparently waiting for a stronger
force from the interior realm to call it away.

The Hierophant stepped to the front of the Altar and, raising his hands, invoked the presence
of the Gods and their assistance in this Sacred ceremony of making that Transfer of the spiritual
life-line that binds the spirit to soul, and soul to body.

As the two souls hung suspended by these magnetic life-chords above their own bodies, through
the magical influences of the Priests, the chants and music came closer and closer, as if drawn
together by some strong magnetic attraction.

Sarthia, now, as well as Nu-nah, was unconscious of what was taking place. Nu-nah's was the
natural unconscious state of an undeveloped soul in passing from the physical temple to the
realms beyond, while Sarthia's was purposely induced by the magical will of the Operator.

The middle of the mystical hour had just been reached when the two life-lines met and blended
for one single instant, then separated and, obeying the powerful wills of the Priests, became
polarized in each other's body.

The magical invisible agency that had been animating the body of Sarthia was now withdrawn,
and the soul of Nu-nah's gradually but faintly began to supply the animating force to revive
and control the apparently lifeless form.

Sarthia's spiritual consciousness was not immediately allowed to return. The awakening must
be gradual to her, for knowing what was being done, the joy and ecstacy of a prolonged life
in the holy bonds of pure love with Rathunor would be disastrous if suddenly conveyed to her
consciousness.

The High Priest, turning to Rathunor, said, "Our beloved pupil, return now to your usual duties,
but fail not to return to the Temple a little before twelve o'clock to-morrow night."

Now the bodies of Sarthia and Nu-nah were removed to another part of the Temple. The Priestesses
and Vestals, with the choir and musicians, were dismissed as the first part of the solemn and
sacred Rites was over, but the Priests remained, never stopping in their magical work, for
yet the vibrations of the new-born souls were not of sufficient strength and power to remain
unassisted, especially that of Nu-nah's.

CHAPTER VI.

THE AWAKENING.

The constant presence of some of the Priests of the Temple had been near the bodies of Nu-nah
and Sarthia continuously for the last twenty-four hours, and by their magic assistance the
vibrations of the souls to their new tenements grew stronger and quite harmonious.

The hour of midnight was again near at hand. The reviving forms of the two young girls were
again brought into the Holy Sanctuary of the Temple and placed in front of the Altar and the
Hierophant who had already taken his position.

The Priestesses of the Temple with their Vestals were quietly and solemnly wending their way
to their usual places. The choir had begun to chant the opening service when Rathunor with
one of the Priests approached with slow and measured strides as if a false movement would disturb
the solemnity of this midnight's mystic silence.

As they approached the spot where the two bodies lay, there was a perceptible movement, as
of consciousness in the silent form of Nu-nah.

