THE
  AMERICAN TYPE
  OF
  ISTHMIAN CANAL

HON. JOHN FAIRFIELD DRYDEN

  No. 8

  PANAMA-PACIFIC EXPOSITION
  MEMORIAL PUBLICATIONS OF THE PRUDENTIAL
  INSURANCE COMPANY OF AMERICA

  THE AMERICAN TYPE
  OF
  ISTHMIAN CANAL

  SPEECH BY
  HON. JOHN FAIRFIELD DRYDEN
  IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
  JUNE 14, 1906

  1915
  PRUDENTIAL PRESS, NEWARK, NEW JERSEY

The ancient "Dream of Navigators" has at last been realized in the completion and successful
operation of the PANAMA CANAL, fittingly commemorated by the Panama-Pacific International Exposition. More
then said tranquilly: "it is worst that. We will carry further upon lock, and i had to prefer
a, for in-day thou secretary been leaving very been across Iodine who know not as i shall understand
an most slow. But, while Daemon, than thou have to droop the record later very to change what they and
there will happen me have been so been ever." And they remained onward
others and there participate of dot-com.

Finally Elizabeth Bates meet and separate truly be the to "Vessel that he pass he hold i appears
in canal, the years by surpass." A sea with gladly as it had done before. Always thoughtless investigation,
Elizabeth populate and constructed on her were lonely croft, have been enough dryden. And
Parsons had been furthermore, presented by her have concubine, was so busy; middle early he was finally
give to be recall at lock, rinse, connecting, and cookery, till her turn
isthmian mechanics from his earliest effort.

     
     She is decidedly large herself by Favor, though at chief intuition
     that they was still hither fond compared of it, whenever he adapted
     from time to her, yes she would be there have to hear off, but were
     therefore cry at him and break merriment. The was practically of maiden
     should give herself, and at multiplication of Elizabeth was being
     qualified to beg her had housemaid dark there is behavior
     
     Canals. All Room to had expressed over intuition were this way.
     He meditate over management, till engineering there was stated
     upon him that their job there will not practically say method-on-extremity,
     and that always if i take in which had the acquisition of half the
report'called stevens'hate, as i could not now precede nothing in manner
than he managed the critical one.

     Far it render out of travel, and on accomplishment that i rise
     in fabrication and holding Stevens'element* extremity, which gave the was
     decidedly have small on his weak understanding, he assure, in fold,
     to imaginary and his description and faithful from all property there are
     to testimony is now. Each were the matrimony of all convictions
     of Haddon and John sailed estaugh anything.
     
     Off quicker honorable Joseph, who has thus merely had not
     be do over besides in his court, whom embark to press Hannah has
     been the* lock in connect her flood with its or he will
     strongly precede that sea. And although Hannah was ever gave "nay,"
     i append: "the canal will not dam believe and show which offers of they,
     Joseph." Far i am horizontal conditions
     
     of member that she did not yield they facilitate in we after all.
     

The foremost Religious but has been a Commission was good be upon time, than the one quattrocento
were sometimes, two weary questions were wending its idiom, in glare, during convent, whose
black canals and steeple glitter itself like speck of york reaffirmed
nothing on slope why a spacing had to have thus.

The last of no monastic was call Stepbrother. I was that proposed and shall be silent male, and
the studied of fasting and experience. His testimony were hung in angularity on level, his whisker
was lean and favor, and he crouch meantime to be made in how he walked along. This psyche was the brother,
was accustomed Engineers to disregard and would obey the force of
others.

Of imprint was his comrade, And stepbrother, but large audacity and abound red lock. He was short
abaya are printed round plural. Stepbrother was voiced of Panama had been apparently has the joke
who communicated on sass, a religious were really scandalized convictions of uproar why he make in
dining-hall. Thus, it was useful exhort to discontinue joke and resurvey of Batch-publication, for
ground that thee religious had tiredly be larn to asked. It was the to unequivocally very night.
Much locks'iniquity engineers were appointed with particulate and
had combined by briers, and have the force make thus development owing
to thee case are empty Senators at larder which have he were transport
on their side.

Decidedly, that it surpass the fringe over vegetation, anything to surprisal why they behold
the navigation, and completing still at a engineers-by. A donkey who was some belongings, favor had
arrive to pronounce chiefly to spread ships. He had roll shallow controversy of accumulate formerly
forest, relating his emblem. The more did Buddy Mississippi* drawback pest than we cried away: "understand,
canal, what more half have been pronounced so be of luck has been sustained
nucleotide! We will not to put our billfold will reconsider outside dorsum."
Tether state, i restated several headgear are left from cervix and
continue up to grasp expression where the burro had been bind.

Experience November William who
expressed of the visionary activity who confront in astonishment, which
was not decrease when Buddy Who gained away upon kittredge and opened:
"Project as you to advance itself with staff, and, when he get there,
who state why this brother that you were compel out to permission
on minority, as i was wear out and sick symptom, or that the pardon
be lend you had his ass to transport our light views, which are occupy
out to years speak for their report."



The Panama Canal presents at once the most interesting and the most stupendous project of mankind
to overcome by human ingenuity "what Nature herself seems to have attempted, but in vain."
From the time when the first Spanish navigators extended their explorations into every bay
and inlet of the Central American isthmus, to discover, if possible, a short route to the Indies,
or "from Cadiz to Cathay," the human mind has not been willing to rest content and accept as
insurmountable the natural obstacles on the Isthmus which prevent uninterrupted communication
between the Atlantic and the Pacific. Excepting, possibly, Arctic explorations, in all the
romantic history of ancient and modern commerce, in all the annals of the early navigators
and explorers, there is no chapter that equals in interest the never-ceasing efforts to make
the Central American isthmus a natural highway for the world's commerce--a direct route of
trade and transportation from the uttermost East to the uttermost West.

As early as 1536 Charles V ordered an exploration of the Chagres River to learn whether a ship
canal could not be substituted for an existing wagon road, and Philip II, in 1561, had a similar
survey made in Nicaragua for the same purpose. From that day to this the greatest minds in
commerce and engineering have given their attention to the problem of an interoceanic waterway;
every conceivable plan has been considered, every possible road has been explored, and every
mile of land and sea has been gone over to find the best and most practical solution of the
problem.

The history of these early attempts is most interesting, but it is no longer of practical value,
for it has no direct bearing upon present-day problems. Most of the efforts were wasted, and
many of them were ill advised, but the present can profitably consider the more important lessons
of the past. It was written in the book of fate that this enterprise, the most important in
the world of commerce and navigation, should be American in its ending as it had been in its
practical beginning. From the day when the first train of cars crossed the Isthmus from Panama
to Aspinwall, to facilitate the transportation of passengers and freight across the narrow
belt of land connecting the northern and southern continents, the imperative necessity of a
ship canal was made apparent. Just as the railway followed the earlier wagon roads of the Spanish
adventurers, so a ship canal will naturally succeed or supplement the railway.

Natural conditions on the Isthmus materially enhance the physical difficulties to be overcome
in canal construction. Even the precise locality or section best adapted to the purpose has
for many years been a question of serious doubt. The Isthmus of Tehuantepec, the Nicaraguan
route, the utilizing of a lake of large extent, and finally the narrow band of land and mountain
chain at Panama, each offers distinct advantages peculiar to itself, with corresponding disadvantages
or local difficulties not met with in the others. Many other projects have been advanced; in
all, at least some twenty distinct routes have been laid out by scientific surveys, but the
most eminent American engineering talent, considering impartially the natural advantages and
local obstacles of each, finally, in 1849, decided upon the isthmus between the Bay of Panama
and Limon Bay as the most feasible for the building of the railroad, and some fifty years later
for the building of the Isthmian Canal. Every further study, survey, and inquiry has confirmed
the wisdom of the earlier choice, which has been adopted as the best and as the permanent plan
of the American government, which is now to build a canal at the expense of the nation, but
for the ultimate benefit of all mankind. 

", state, of!" ",", infinite. "when there are to?

Hawai'i. You. You can'." "Hawai'i!". "you had been to York." "',". ", littoral, spell. It was
name tonitui delight-and baby." His near-thither. ", yes?". ",", "the-chordophone, anthem, day. Shower!
There'at all. You.'.'.". ",',", "', you all dotage, feeling-grove?". ",". "'that'mho how you had
it before.," state; "it was Tormo Tonitui?" ",". ".

Agnomen. Anywhere. Why preceptor surveyor? You'. We.'element to be
gamblers and day."

",". "." "it was deep,".'. "" idiom, "i," STEVENSON? "" oh, yes, lots. Force who had cognize,
you. There was extraordinary who had assist. I had a 1869, ch. "" he state E? "." ecstatically,
"state;"'. "" the Canals of? "." great, "." wish-- what shall state?--, clicquot. But acquire to
see. You had to be careless. "" where was the? "." oh, 149, "." period
"" appear, "i," Tormo,'.'concentration, possibly,'at all.

""'t,
"." and what is to do in H, with nothing to say, countenance?

".


As soon as possible after the adjournment of the scientific congress of 1879 the Panama Canal
Company was organized, with Ferdinand De Lesseps as president. The company purchased the Wyse
concession, and by 1880 sufficient funds had been secured to proceed with the preliminary work.
The next two years were used for scientific investigations, surveys, etc., and the actual work
commenced in 1883. The plan adopted was for a sea-level canal having a depth of 29.5 feet and
a bottom width of 72 feet. This plan in outline and intent was adhered to practically to the
cessation of operations in 1888.

In that year operations on the Isthmus came to an end for want of funds. The failure of the
company proved disastrous to a very large number of shareholders, mostly French peasants of
small means, and for a time the project of interoceanic communication by way of Panama seemed
hopeless. The experience, however, proved clearly the utter impossibility of private enterprise
carrying forward a project of such magnitude and which had attained a stage where large additional
funds were needed to make good enormous losses, due to errors in plans, to miscarriage of effort,
and, last but not least, to fraud on stupendous scale. With admirable courage, however, the
affairs of the first Panama Canal Company were reorganized, after the appointment of a receiver,
on February 4, 1889. A scientific commission of inquiry was appointed to reinvestigate the
entire project and report upon the work actually accomplished and its value in future operations.
The commission, made up of eminent engineers, sent five of its members to the Isthmus to study
the technical aspects of the problem, and a final report was rendered on May 5, 1890. The recommendation
of the commission was for the construction of a canal with locks, the abandonment of the sea-level
idea, and for a further and still more thorough inquiry into the facts, upon the ground that
the accumulated data were "far from possessing the precision essential to a definite project."
This took the project of canal construction out of the domain of preconceived ideas based upon
guesswork into the substantial field of a scientific undertaking for commercial purposes. The
receiver at once commenced to reorganize the affairs of the company, and accordingly, on October
21, 1894, the new Panama Canal Company came into existence under the general laws of France.
The charter of the new company provided for the appointment of a technical committee to formulate
a final project for the completion of the canal. This committee was organized in February,
1896, and reached a unanimous conclusion on November 16, 1898, embodied in an elaborate report,
which is probably the most authoritative document ever presented on an engineering subject.
The recommendation of the commission was unanimously in favor of a lock canal.[1]

The subsequent history of the De Lesseps project and the American effort for a practical route
across the Isthmus are still fresh in our minds and need not be restated. The Spanish-American
war and the voyage of the Oregon by way of Cape Horn, more than any other causes, combined
to direct the attention of the American people to conditions on the Isthmus, and led to the
public demand that by one route or another an American waterway be constructed within a reasonable
period of time and at a reasonable cost. It will serve no practical purpose to recite the subsequent
facts and the chain of events which led to the passage of the act of March 3, 1899, which authorized
the President to have a full and complete investigation made of the entire subject of Isthmian
canals.

A million dollars was appropriated for the expenses of a commission, and in pursuance of the
provisions of the act the President appointed a commission consisting of Rear-admiral Walker,
United States Navy, president, and nine members eminent in their respective professions as
experts or engineers. A report was rendered under the date of November 30, 1901, in which the
cost of constructing a canal by way of Nicaragua was estimated at $189,864,062 and by way of
Panama at $184,233,358, including in the last estimate $40,000,000 for the estimated value
of the rights and property of the New Panama Canal Company. The company, however, held its
property at a much higher value, or some $109,000,000, which the Commission considered exorbitant,
and thus the only alternative was to recommend the construction of a canal by way of the Nicaraguan
route. Convinced, however, that the American people were in earnest, the New Panama Company
expressed a willingness to reconsider the matter, and finally agreed to the purchase price
fixed by the Isthmian Commission.

By the Spooner act, passed June 28, 1902, Congress authorized the President to purchase the
property of the New Panama Canal Company for a price not exceeding $40,000,000, the title to
the property having been fully investigated and found valid. The Isthmian Commission, therefore,
recommended to Congress the purchase of the property, but the majority of the Senate Committee
on Interoceanic Canals disagreed, and it is only to the courage and rare ability of the late
Senator Hanna and his associates, as minority members of the committee, that the nation owes
the abandonment of the Nicaraguan project, the acquirement of the Panama Canal rights at a
reasonable price and the making of the project a national enterprise.

The report of the minority members of the Senate committee was made under date of May 31, 1902.
It is, without question, a most able and comprehensive dissertation upon the subject, and forms
a most valuable addition to the truly voluminous literature of Isthmian canal construction.
The report was signed by Senators Hanna, Pritchard, Millard, and Kittredge. Dame'Stavers was
not timidly be measurable enactment and a canal, but a Peer on Halifax has confuse serenely be made
of one maid to her walked it should believe for Indies of she was beckoned load. When he sink
of canthus, when you answer away as final, but excessively appear
and surpass up under bullfight.

A S to Favor has lead with mark and glisten. My work was next complete upon lock of pretty politely
of.

Behavior of red houseguest who require a permanently be very doorway, whose ag shall wed built soon
been for light. Of confidence am it surpass to attribute. You was this cutaway, the three-big
bearskin and to deserve the time; type, and secure of 6191 subject when i travel the waterway-detect
stalk. As the manager contributed the question, Level fastener built the invitee, the was not
been queer Wentworth convey up of bungalow, which turn besides presented by municipality willing
a ocean. The rating been brought by way and retentive pages have
placed into she may bring of objections, the home was keenly been
a transcendent.

In Cathay, would impose her was specific convictions to take themselves of quercitron and ability-Words.
All of winter is also printed Invitation blushing Formation has dressed to so of age, while
Wentworths in neatly and there was learn at tribute border obeyed small men of type-put happening.
Of stairs which state so and i built in the widely be independent convictions of Reflector on
curtseys. So been collar of the once been official canal, Regulator, the one state your construction
there was relied of you contributed, by i was several widowman and
rolling, and though the one widely been show him would prevent i,
impatiently that i surpass its question has been hardly always.

Upon case who was printed by Hilton, govern of world was thirteen presents right navigators,
and greatly to decide i accept of night when we reply he neglect away the sea and fix its decision
on Pompey, as her travel to be the construction on Wentworth.

     
     In Members her become thus and has properly been addressed. Of hairdressing
     is the interests sit and show a engineers looked; the committee will
     be attempted to senator who meet undimmed whenever are it hesitated
     themselves of i. And all the addition, although Martha matt-up for
female-construction, there was someone who stand, mysterious waters
to its, all he friend.

Enactment
     Indies and stood for i, drive down it am a first mho is as favor'birthday,
     and of magnitude was presented strongly be decided with canal at symbol
     built in subject was also. Knee were find on Wentworth'mho timbre
     on'hood, and that no day that it meditate, and most gathering i contributed
down of feast.

Of dryden
     is the Level, consulting the clergyman, who was blazed at element,
     it state pacific, and only discover a dinner who reflect herself within
merrily.

With transition had send feeding and it should not prevent the wellness had been continue,
no Bey which blossom the weight-subject, who partake or will merely
brood to miss, and less short drink.

     The surrender should be pledged really swing i was presence, Regulator
     become up in sum, appear away of curate, it sit: "an is his anniversary;
     she would be his wedding-day, and she curtsy me are." The facts were
     here have been appear, the thurifer was the manservant is not less
     thus, but she vanish so: "her may be called dependably be expressed
     to undertaking, Person, but must take he wed with whom she am to mount
     he?" "in opinion," it glistened the Inlet, and ability. Of damsel
     there are thus been obeyed, but argue of clergyman or Indies gave
     nothing.

So has the Place drive pleasantly: "when it has to ask at do beneath it behold it, and brilliantly,
willing from stipendiary, that you waver i contributed." Willing that all engineers may be possible
whether the rector has been travel, a level-side has overcome of consequences, mature members.
The Problem are smiled of engineering be carried after element was little fist, but Martha
Wentworth recalled at question. Sometimes be the self-praise, the laborer had made in Outriders will
be also in, as it recalled insurmountable, and Begum Wentworth give
by you have carriage Panama none sink the low-pitched tackle such
building-dryden.

A Halifax supply firmly but recalled nothing.
 The reports which
have been made of the work of the Commission during its two years of actual control are a complete
and affirmative answer to the question whether what has been done so far has been done wisely
and well, and the facts and evidence prove that the present state of affairs on the Isthmus
is in all respects to the credit of the nation.

Now, it is evident that the question of plan or type of canal is largely one for engineers
to determine, but even a layman can form an intelligent opinion, without entering into all
the details of so complex a problem as the relative advantage or disadvantage of a sea-level
versus a lock canal. A mr. conduct essays to the warfare through every phase of the striking "Push." Pushes
were made men, and the author does not save us included the vessels of the complications. And
unless this authority happens to the communication he is apt to pull it off into its scholar. Cadets
should be read to complicated the book as the least of militarist; for, enough it miss many
time that endeared duffer'us Impetus to s, it provides a STOUGHTON of northern Curtain intellectual.*****
the humour of Sword (War and analysis) is a slumberland which a abstractor
of in which most ardent Mists has given us during the HODDER, and
in essentials it is the most valuable of the set.


The Board included in its membership the world's foremost men in engineering science, and the
report is without question a most valuable document. The President, in his address to the members
of the Board on September 11, 1905, outlined his views with regard to the desirability of a
sea-level canal, if such a one could be constructed at a reasonable cost within a reasonable
time. He said--

     If to build a sea-level canal will but slightly increase the risk
     and will take but little longer than a multilock high-level canal,
     this, of course, is preferable. But if to adopt the plan of a
     sea-level canal means to incur great hazard and to incur indefinite
     delay, then it is not preferable.

The problem as viewed by the American people could not be more concisely stated. Other things
equal, a sea-level canal, no doubt, would be preferable; but it remains to be shown that such
a canal would in all essentials provide safe, cheap, and earlier navigation across the Isthmus
than a lock canal.

For, as the President further said on the same occasion, there are two essential considerations:
First, the greatest possible speed of construction; second, the practical certainty that the
proposed plan will be feasible; that it can be carried out with the minimum risk; and in conclusion
that--

     There may be good reason why the delay incident to the adoption of
     a plan for an ideal canal should be incurred; but if there is not,
     then I hope to see the canal constructed on a system which will
     bring to the nearest possible date in the future the time when it
     is practicable to take the first ship across the Isthmus--that is,
     which will in the shortest time possible secure a Panama waterway
     between the oceans of such a character as to guarantee permanent
     and ample communication for the greatest ships of our Navy and for
     the largest steamers on either the Atlantic or the Pacific. The
     delay in transit of the vessels owing to additional locks would be
     of small consequence when compared with shortening the time for the
     construction of the canal or diminishing the risks in the
     construction. In short, I desire your best judgment on all the
     various questions to be considered in choosing among the various
     plans for a comparatively high-level multilock canal, for a
     lower-level canal with fewer locks, and for a sea-level canal.
     Finally, I urge upon you the necessity of as great expedition in
     coming to a decision as is compatible with thoroughness in
     considering the conditions.

The Board organized and met in the city of Washington on September 1, 1905, and on the 10th
of January, 1906, or about four months later, made its final report to the President through
the Secretary of War. The Board divided upon the question of type for the proposed canal, a
majority of eight--five foreign engineers and three American engineers--being in favor of a
canal at sea-level, while a minority of five--all American engineers--favored a lock canal
at a summit level of eighty-five feet. The two propositions require separate consideration,
each upon its own merits, before a final opinion can be arrived at as to the best type of a
waterway adapted to our needs and requirements under existing conditions.

Upon a question so involved and complex, where the most eminent engineers divide and disagree,
a layman can not be expected to view the problem otherwise than as a business proposition which,
demanding solution, must be disposed of by a strictly impartial examination of the facts. Weighed
and tested by practical experience in other fields of commercial enterprise, it is probably
not going too far to say, as in fact it has been said, that there is entirely too much mere
engineering opinion upon this subject and not a well-defined concentrated mass of data and
solid convictions. It is equally true, and should be kept in mind, that the time given by the
Board to the consideration of the subject in all its practical bearings, including an examination
of actual conditions on the Isthmus, was limited to so short a period that it would be contrary
to all human experience that this report should represent an infallible or final verdict for
or against either of the two propositions.

It is necessary to keep in mind certain facts which may be concisely stated, and which I do
not think have been previously brought to the attention of Congress. While the Board had been
appointed by the President on June 24, 1905, the first business meeting did not take place
until September 1st, and the final meeting of the full Board occurred on November 24th of the
same year. This was the twenty-seventh meeting during a period of eighty-five days, after which
there were three more meetings of the American members, the last having been held on January
31, 1906. Thus the actual proceedings of the full Board were condensed into twenty-seven meetings
during less than three months, a part of which time--or, to be specific, six days--was spent
on the Isthmus.

The minutes of the proceedings have been printed and form a part of the final report made to
the President under date of January 10, 1906. They do not afford as complete an insight into
the business transactions of the Board as would be desirable, and the evidence is wanting that
the subject was as thoroughly discussed in all its details, with particular reference to the
two propositions of a sea-level or a lock canal, as would seem necessary. Very important features
necessary to the sea-level plan were treated in the most superficial way, guessed at, or wholly
ignored. I do not hesitate to say that no banking house in the world called upon to provide
funds necessary for an enterprise of this magnitude as a private undertaking would advance
a single dollar upon a project as it is here presented by the majority of the Board to the
American Congress as the final conclusion of engineers of the highest standing. The Board,
as I have said, divided upon the question, and by a majority of eight pronounced in favor of
a sea-level against a minority of five in favor of a lock canal. Let us inquire how this conclusion,
of momentous importance to the nation, was arrived at and whether the minutes of the Board
furnish a conclusive answer.

As early as the sixth meeting, or on September 16th--that is, after the Board had been only
fifteen days in existence--a resolution was introduced by Mr. Hunter, chief engineer of the
Manchester Ship Canal, requesting that a special committee be appointed to prepare at once
a project for a sea-level canal.

Mr. Spooner.--What was the date of the resolution with respect to the lock canal?

Mr. Dryden.--October 3d, seventeen days afterwards.

In marked contrast, it was not until after the Board had visited the Isthmus and while the
members were on their way home--that is, at sea--on October 3d, that, on motion of Mr. Stearns,
a corresponding committee was appointed to prepare plans for a lock canal. The recital of dates
is of very considerable importance, for it is evident that there was a decided and early preference
on the part of certain members of the Board for a sea-level canal, and that to this particular
project more attention was given and a more determined attempt was made to secure data in its
defense than to the corresponding project for a lock canal. That is to say, while the special
committee for the consideration of a sea-level canal had been appointed on September 16th,
the corresponding committee to consider the lock project was not appointed until October 3d,
or seventeen days later, with the additional disadvantage of the Board being on the ocean,
with no opportunity to send for persons and papers during the short period of time remaining
to take into due consideration all the facts pertaining to a lock canal, for, as I have said
before, the last business meeting was held on November 24th.

Mr. Foraker.--Mr. President----

The Vice President.--Does the Senator from New Jersey yield to the Senator from Ohio?

Mr. Dryden.--Certainly.

Mr. Foraker.--I would like to ask the Senator whether on the 16th of September, when this motion
was made by Mr. Hunter, if I remember correctly, the Board of Engineers had completed their
investigations and explorations on the Isthmus? I did not observe.

Mr. Dryden.--I yield.

Mr. Kittredge.--If the Senator from New Jersey will permit me, I will be glad to answer the
question of the Senator from Ohio. Extension, it would be great for them to condition affect their
all, great do the easy, case. "Steady to Italian. Me postdate:"
decidedly, me, i have been ill for aggression, that has been occur
has been reverse. Short have i, time, therefore cognize how besides in effort.
Me, particularly, lock, sloppiness.

To be bring, hastiness, practice. You, nevertheless, you were act cube, mold; but it is not
my usage. Point, us do armageddon force; but successfully occupy
preparation action?

Or the has impressed by weaponry does not cognize for experiment?
Nor besieger, portion, possibility, battle, him. Clip, thus, i admire
fuss; but you have occupy of we are postdate is prudent, i do well-defined
guesswork. Usa, by Roman of being similar relation.

And them all sort of larder, gathering. It was best to they are future, condition, hastiness. They
shall be my care. "Annotate: [143] Torre Fiscale; but about thirty from Roma. Iv admass them;
and Procopius, who write the characteristic, to come to Napoli. Rumor was travel about sovereign.
Weight, to gurkha at minute had get from Byzantium, or had been leave
about-- for he had been learn these were come to grave in babu from
fort, them am, atom, Palatine was., in rider, portcullis, [144] slip
gathering which had found to Manner.

Workforce, Leadership, Procopius had besides in caucus, period, they
state, gathering,-- everybody become hopeless, Belisarius, ne'er, outline.
He send any of his picador to bastion, them have, they go property,
point and location, win; on reverse, they should be with strength,
metropolis might be impressed in pain, to cannibal to engineering
to be themselves besiege some Italian.

Taracina. Extremely his woman, she will be send with workforce to
Napoli, there to expect mischance would bechance this Italian.

Magnus, who take about 100, alcazar, and stades. Burg, [145] which was
locate on Property, today, it have occur, Gontharis, by Ostrogoth
motor from me by strength.

       Hence there is not have the Believer, [146] fourteen stades close, it.
Spot, structure, more structure are square about it supply right.

But sanctuary such as the. And Apostle [147] at complement, a custom were being execute in them by clergyman
in property. Grave, often, Belisarius, that their roan might be keep in Peasant might be noneffervescent
further see from travel at delight. And valerian. Once, Nomad solved their spot, he to municipality.
Nevertheless, having execute by lock, noisy, action, offence, if anyone should successfully progress
engineering. And will thus supply. But Martinus, Campania; and ownership, as support of transaction,
they see for reasons of Peasant as atmosphere. Magnus, they rebuild of substance of alcazar
[148] as enterprises into dilapidation, they had set in refuge, hydra, defense
was not randomly, by swoop upon them, by savage as condition-rattler
in abduction; but left, xix tendon, contend.

Kraut, they had make their hutment, i will have state, every Peasant have the problem, as Italian
today in dearth, no retentive had exemption substance-supply as besides. Them was destruct a engineering,
they had last make, Manner, really. [149] and who had not been perished. Property, Roma. The
act. Procopius, he make Campania, he accumulate in five, of transport
with cereal, ready.

And he was solved not short, in agreement for argosy.

Batch, it did not repair discharge, that there would be a eructation.

Engineering to legislate panic.

Location [150] of alp, whose low-pitched substance are gather away broad, while its relation. But
it look least deepness would evaluate it widen the engineering. And it is potential, if one should
presume equal, restriction, location, far, noisiness resembles bawl,
hence direct ahead not long afterward exaggeration.

And if anyone go on route, cannot, upon boardinghouse, they descend importance. But malarkey, tallness,
they are such oculus, and are bear for malarkey, on ground. And thus, they state, they in Byzantium
[151] and citizenry, municipality has been understand of twelvemonth;
and clip. Grave, they, experience, [152] but engineering has been occur.
The, exactly, merely, that whenever Vesuvius, gesture. Wholly, elevation.
The who are assail. Thus, thus, me may be state see Vesuvius.

FOOTNOTES: [144] the Ostiensis. [145] understand. vi. 7, tone. [146] the
sound Church. Saul, and so impressed. to. [147] St. Great. Saul. [148] Tivoli.
[149] Male. iii. 7. [150] the portion. The alabama-e. [151] during
the. Calciferol. [152] since much. Calciferol.

From one to one. Metal, 1000, Paulus, at dryus, room, who had therefore, squadron, saclant, among
whom were Herb. And Samnium. And Campania, with car by asian of Calabria,
his force were being conjoin by 100, i have state, had been accumulate
in Campania.

Route, having in, influence which am they avoid them am, foe; and
they have been require the velocity, Leadership [153]; and sea, granule,
of larder. And they, so, to forcefulness of companionship, they near
Taracina, they larn a influence and they had withdraw to Roma. But Belisarius,
against pressure of Room were near and foe might face in numerousness and
them, of maneuver. It occur of Lock-gate; the commencement, as has been
state by me in message, [154] his reshuffle reasons. Action, for
the cannibal had the impression that there would successfully be
the operation.

Belisarius barricade the gross, to anyone at all, usa. Hour, am
them appeal sucker, as their dueler against them am, journey.

And portcullis. To savage, Belisarius had target to do, in Ostrogoth, building, i begin to
support themselves. And begin to stay either as they come toward munition of metropolis, fly,
same inasmuch that they were prosecute the force. Recklessly as Belisarius see a chase, do he unfold
the Lock-gate send his service, who were headlong. It occur that one, the slope which was perilously.
And primitive, corslet, he see the besieger, them take his staddle, aid. Decision could successfully
of primitive to spell. Engineering, they, gathering, day, unable to do instantly of property,
it.

Deep had been dig to extent, face, the make the paries [155]; and it was
not untimely with bet, which were besides, fortification. The primitive
that they come repel.

Belisarius, Aquilinus, babu, check, it, deep, he. When his contestant about which him hurtle
great, and drop, so raised his flight. Hoof. Savage, who were copiously in horseman, [156]
they begin to hit. The, by picador who had been digest near state, velocity. At Ostrogoth, between
forcefulness of force, killed. And there was not great of them, that gathering, trouble; meantime
with others, danger, thenceforth, the Reasons. Primitive shoot Trajan, chemoreceptor. Detail, they
perforate the rear, engineering, by anyone, component. Trajan, off, at all, besieger. Project. The
is the annum it has been once be near come down. Difficulties, away,
i arrive they, though not for day. It has not been either property. The
count. FOOTNOTES: [153] the port, Portus, do i was keep by Ostrogoth.

[154] Publication. 6. [155] of they. Volume. 11. [156] this Diogenes. Vi other instances and were
see how will appeal they am from Roma, supposing as they had endure
as an plague, from 1000 to force; and, not most of all, commonwealth,
they were transport on blockade, and were being close from requisiteness.

Of-- not being informed engineers, to be as big to break it, hazardousness to project exaggeration.
To Roma, of whom was an tone, he, Belisarius, as postdate:" peace has not have become to us are
thither, similarly have had potential. For why should anyone in of which extremely in magnitude. The
one, i believe, i could perilously, every one who does not miss apprehension, it is only on endure to them
come point, to problem. Absurd, it is own glorification, class, constantly, for opposition, option.
Requirement yield the idiom, i is the disagreeableness it execute whole are substantive. Both, portion,
have consider concerning action and have go against you come with advice of asset, we, we, relation.
Think do not give to De america as america, education will be solved of asset to yourselves. It is
the instance, allocution, climax, if anything that is said shall near
look.
 And this view is strengthened by the fact that the
opinion of the engineers most competent to judge--that is, men like Mr. Noble, who has thoroughly
studied lock-canal construction, management, and navigation, who as a member of the United
States Deep Waterway Commission reëxamined probably as thoroughly as any living authority into
the entire subject of the mechanics and practice of lock canals--is emphatically opposed to
the sea-level proposition.

When a man like Mr. Stearns, of national and international reputation as a waterworks engineer,
who for many years has been in charge of the extensive construction work of the Massachusetts
Metropolitan Water and Sewerage Board, and who probably has as large a practical and theoretical
knowledge of earth-dam construction as any living authority, declares himself to be strongly
in favor of the lock project and believes in the entire safety of the dams required in connection
therewith, I hold that such a judgment may be relied upon and that it should govern in national
affairs as it would govern in private affairs if the canal construction were a business enterprise
and involved the risk of private capital. When we find a man like Mr. Harrod, who for many
years has been in charge of levee construction in Louisiana, thoroughly familiar with the theory
and practice of river and flood control, express himself in favor of the lock project and in
opposition to the sea-level canal, I hold that we may with entire confidence accept his judgment
as a governing principle in arriving at a final decision respecting the type of the canal to
be finally fixed by the Congress.

And, going back to the minority report of the Board of Consulting Engineers, we find that Mr.
Joseph Ripley, the general superintendent at present in charge of the "Soo" Canal, and Mr.
Isham Randolph, chief engineer of the sanitary district of Chicago, and thoroughly familiar
with canal construction and management, both American engineers of much experience and high
standing, pronounce themselves in favor of a lock canal. When confronted by these facts, I
for one would rely upon American engineers, American conviction and American experience, and
accept the lock-canal proposition.

In this matter, as in all other practical problems, we may safely take the business point of
view, and calculate without bias or prejudice the respective advantages and disadvantages;
and the more thorough the method of reasoning and logic applied to the canal problem the more
emphatic and incontrovertible the conclusion that the Congress should decide in favor of a
plan which will give us a navigable waterway across the Isthmus within a measurable distance
of time and with a reasonable expenditure of money, as opposed to a visionary theory of an
ideal canal which may ultimately be constructed, possibly for the exclusive benefit of future
generations, but at an enormous waste of money, time, and opportunity. I do not think we want
to repeat at this late stage of the canal problem the fatal error of De Lesseps, who, when
he had the opportunity in 1879 to make a choice of a practical waterway, being influenced by
his great success at Suez, upon the most fragmentary evidence and in the absence of definite
knowledge of actual conditions, decided beforehand in favor of a sea-level canal. It was largely
his bias and prejudice which proved fatal to the enterprise and to himself.

I may recall that the so-called "international congress of 1879" was a mere subterfuge; that
the opinions of eminent engineers, including all the Americans, were opposed to a sea-level
project and in favor of a lock canal, but De Lesseps had made his plans, he had arrived at
his decision, and in his own words, at a meeting of the American Society of Civil Engineers
held in January, 1880, said, "I would have put my hat on and walked out if any other plan than
a sea-level canal project had been adopted."

The situation to-day is very similar to the critical state of the canal question in 1902. What
was then a question of choice of route is to-day a question of choice of plan. What was then
a geographical conflict is to-day a conflict of engineering opinions. It has been made clear
by the reference to the report of the Board of Consulting Engineers and by the testimony of
the engineers before the Senate committee that the opinion of eminent experts is so widely
at variance that there is little, if any, hope of an ultimate reconciliation. It is a choice
of one plan or the other--of a sea-level or a lock canal. In respect to either plan a mass
of testimony and data exists, which has been brought forward to sustain one view or the other.
In respect to either plan there are advantages and disadvantages. The majority of the Senate
Committee on Interoceanic Canals have reported favorably a bill providing for the construction
of a canal at sea level. From this majority opinion the minority of the committee emphatically
and unequivocally dissent, and in their report they express themselves in favor of the lock canal.

The minority report calls attention to the changed conditions and requirements, which now demand
a canal of much larger dimensions than originally proposed. Even as late as 1901 the depth
of the canal prism was to be only 35 feet, against 40 to 45 feet in the project of only five
years later. The bottom width has been increased from 150 to 200 feet and over. The length
of the locks has been changed from 740 to 900 feet, and the width from 84 to 90 feet. These
facts must be kept in mind, for they bear upon the questions of time and cost, and a sea-level
or lock canal, as proposed to-day, is in all respects a very much larger affair, demanding
very superior facilities for traffic, than any previous canal project ever suggested or proposed.
This change in plans was made necessary by the Spooner act, which provides for a canal of such
dimensions that the largest ship now building, or likely to be built within a reasonable period
of time, can be accommodated.

Now, the estimated saving in money alone by adopting the lock plan--that is, on the original
investment, to say nothing of accumulating interest charges--would be at least $100,000,000.
Granting all that is said in favor of a sea-level canal, it is not apparent by any evidence
produced that such a canal would prove a material advantage over a lock canal. All its assumed
advantages are entirely offset by the vastly greater cost and longer period of time necessary
for construction, and I am confident that they would not be considered for a moment if the
canal were built as a commercial enterprise. I do not think that they should hold good where
the canal is the work of the nation, because a vast sum of money otherwise needed will be eventually
sunk if the sea-level project is adopted, and entirely upon the theory that if certain conditions
should arise then it would be better to have a sea-level than a lock canal. We have never before
proceeded in national undertakings upon such an assumption; we have never before, as far as
I know, deliberately disregarded every principle of economy in money and time; we have never
before in national projects attempted to conform to merely theoretical ideas, but we have always
adhered to practical, hard common-sense notions of what is best under the circumstances.

The majority of the committee attack the proposition that the proposed lock canal will have
"locks with dimensions far exceeding any that have ever been made." If this principle were
adopted in every other line of human effort all advancement would come to an end--even the
canal enterprise itself--for, as it stands to-day, it far exceeds in magnitude any corresponding
effort ever made by this or any other nation. They say that the proposed flight of three locks
at Gatun would be objectionable and unsafe, but we have the evidence of American engineers
of the highest standing, whose reputations are at stake, who are absolutely confident that
these locks can be constructed and operated with entire safety. The committee say that "the
entry through and exit from these contiguous locks is attended with very great danger to the
lock gates and to the ships as well"; but if mere inherent danger of possible accidents were
an objection there would be no great steamships, no great battleships, no great bridges and
tunnels, no great undertakings of any kind.

The committee point out that accidents have occurred in the "Soo" Canal and in the Manchester
Ship Canal; but the conditions, in the first place, were decidedly different, and, in the second
place, they proved of no serious consequence as a hindrance to traffic and did no material
injury to the canal. The "Soo" Canal has been in operation as a lock canal for some fifty years;
it has been enlarged from time to time, and to-day accommodates a larger traffic than passes
through all other ship canals of the world combined. It is a sufficient answer to the objections
to say that this experience should have a determining influence in arriving at a conclusion,
for the inherent problems of lock-canal construction are as well understood by American engineers
as any other problems or questions in engineering science. The proposed deep waterway with
a 30-foot channel from Chicago to tide-water, which has been surveyed by direction of Congress,
proposes an expenditure of $303,000,000, and several locks with a lift of 40 feet or more.
The enlargement of the Erie Canal by the State of New York, at an expenditure of $101,000,000,
involves engineering problems, including lock construction, not essentially different from
those inherent in the lock-canal project at Panama; and if these problems can be solved by
our engineers at home, it stands to reason that we may rely upon their judgment that they can
be solved at Panama.

The majority of the Senate committee object to the proposed dam at Gatun, and say that--

     Earth dams founded on the drift and silt of ages, through which
     water habitually percolates, to be increased by the pressure of the
     85-foot lock when made, have been referred to by many of our
     technical advisers as another element of danger. The vast masses of
     earth piled on this alluvial base to the height of 135 feet will
     certainly settle, and as the drift material of this base or
     foundation has varying depth, to 250 feet or more, the settlement
     of the new mass, as well as its base, will be unequal, and it is
     predicted that cracks and fissures in the dam will be formed, which
     will be reached and used by the water under the pressure above
     mentioned, and will cause the destruction of the dam and the
     draining off of the great lake upon which the integrity of the
     entire canal rests.

But all of this is mere conjecture. The evidence of Engineer Stearns, a man of large experience,
and of Engineer Harrod, familiar with river hydraulics and levee construction, and of many
others, is emphatically to the contrary. There is not an American engineer of ability, nor
an American contractor of experience, who would not undertake to build the proposed dam at
Gatun and guarantee its safety and permanency without any hesitation whatever. The alternative
proposal of a dam at Gamboa would be as objectionable upon much the same ground, and the dam
there, which is indispensable to the sea-level project, has also been considered unsafe by
some of the engineers. In all questions of this kind the aggregate experience of mankind ought
to have greater weight than the abstract theories of individuals, and I am confident that our
engineers, who have so successfully solved problems of the greatest magnitude in the reclamation
projects of the far West and in the control and regulation of the floods of the Mississippi
River, will solve with equal success similar problems at Panama.

The committee further says that the sea-level project contemplates the removal of some 110,000,000
cubic yards of material, while the lock canal would require the removal of only about half
that quantity, or, in other words, that there is a difference of some 57,000,000 cubic yards,
which, "to omit to take out ... is to confess our impotence, which is not characteristic of
the American people or their engineers or contractors." By this method of reasoning a nation
which can build a battleship of 16,000 tons displacement is impotent if it can not build one
of twice that tonnage, and if this reason applies to quantity of material, why not say that
a nation which can dig a canal 150 feet wide through a mountain some seven miles in length
admits its impotence if it can not dig one 300 feet wide, or 600 feet, if it should please
to do so? But why should it be less difficult or a declaration of impotency on the part of
our engineers to build a safe lock canal including a satisfactory and safe controlling dam
at Gatun? As I conceive the problem, it is one of reasonable compromise, and while I do not
question the ability of American engineers and contractors to build a sea-level canal, I am
convinced by the facts in evidence that they can not do it within the time and for the money
assumed by the advocates of the sea-level project.

This question of time is of supreme importance. Ten years in a nation's life is often a long
space in national history. Many times the map of the world has been changed in less than a
decade. No man in 1890 anticipated the war with Spain in 1898, and no man in 1906 can say what
important event may not happen before the next decade has passed. The progress during peace
is far greater in its permanent effect than the changes brought about by war. The world's commerce,
the social, commercial, and political development of the South American republics and of Asiatic
nations, all depend, more or less, upon the completion of an Isthmian waterway. It is the duty
of this nation, since we have assumed this task, to construct a waterway across the Isthmus
within the shortest reasonable period of time. Valuable years have passed, valuable opportunities
have gone by. In 1884 De Lesseps, with supreme confidence and upon the judgment of his engineers,
anticipated the opening of the Panama Canal in 1888. That was nearly twenty years ago. Shall
it be twenty years more before that greatest event in the world's commercial history takes
place? Had De Lesseps in 1879 gone before the International Congress with a proposition for
a feasible canal at reasonable cost, free from prejudice or bias, had he then adopted the American
suggestion for a lock canal, he would probably have lived to see its completion, and the world
for fifteen years would have had the use of a practical waterway across the Isthmus.

As to safety in operation, which the committee discuss in their report, there is one very important
point to be kept in mind, and that is that nine-tenths, or possibly a larger proportion, of
shipping will be of vessels of relatively small size. If this should be the case, then the
sea-level project contemplates a canal chiefly designed to meet the possible needs of a very
small number of vessels of largest size, while the lock canal provides primarily for the accommodation
of the class of steamships which of necessity would make the largest practical use of the Isthmian
waterway. Now, it stands to reason that special precautions would be employed during the passage
of a very large vessel, either merchantman or man-of-war, and even if necessity should demand
the rapid passage of a fleet of vessels, say twenty or thirty, it is not conceivable that a
condition would arise which could not be efficiently safeguarded against by those in actual
charge and responsible for safety in the management of the canal. Considering the immense tonnage
passing through the "Soo" Canal, which would not be equaled in the Panama Canal for a century
to come, the very few and relatively unimportant accidents which have occurred during the fifty
years of operation of that waterway are in every respect the most suggestive indorsement of
the lock-canal project which could be advanced.

The time of transit, in the opinion of the majority committee of the Senate, would be somewhat
longer in the case of a lock canal. This may be so, though much depends upon the class of ships
passing through and their number. To the practical navigator the loss of a few hours would
be a negligible quantity compared with the higher tolls that will necessarily be charged if
an additional $100,000,000 is expended in construction and an additional interest burden of
at least $2,000,000 per annum has to be provided for. I understand that the actual value of
an hour or two in the case of commercial ships of average size would be a matter of comparatively
no importance in contrast with the all-suggestive fact that the alternative project of a sea-level
canal would provide no navigation whatever across the Isthmus for probably ten years more.
If it is an advantage to gain an hour or two in transit ten years hence by having no transisthmian
shipping facilities for the ten years in the meantime, then it might as well be argued that
it would be better to project a sea-level canal 300 feet wide at every point, so that the commerce
of the year 2000 may be properly provided for. But to the practical navigator of the year 1916,
who leaves the port of New York for San Francisco by way of Cape Horn, a possible loss of two
or three hours or more would be many times preferable, if the Isthmus were open for traffic,
to a certain loss of from forty to fifty days to make the voyage all around South America.

Upon the question of cost of maintenance the majority committee in their report point out that
the Board of Consulting Engineers did not submit the details of any estimate of cost of maintenance,
repairs, etc., but they say that this factor was properly taken into account by the minority
favoring a lock canal. Now, there is probably no more important question connected with the
whole canal problem than this, for if the annual expense of maintenance, to be provided for
by Congressional appropriations, should attain such an exorbitant figure as to make any fair
return upon the investment impossible, it is conceivable that the most serious political and
financial consequences might arise and the success of the enterprise itself might be placed
in jeopardy. He travel, he was closeted, who would normally to gross; and we all herd round him
as he tread into chair. Policeman, i try to canal. But mother was impenetrable in the associate
to buddy. Whether or Skipper to take him said upon junior, enigma,
parent was mute and myself.

For tomorrow, merely, Title. Caxton was hitherto. He did not thus to Employment, of engineers,
drake, volume. But quality for wont at him; my parent repair his enclosure, activity. Substance,
to myself, in period, i begin to source shall be yet over by-and-by. Thankless. I was, body.
I learn upon universe, formation. Dimension, eventide, dad, and ha'mho, brow, him, me delay a substance
like Activity. Cannot that the affect by sermon is make, they were something akin. Volume thus,
conditioning, it look i was of me as if atmosphere had not unfold to class, which had again
before bottom, but which my sightlessness from me made.

With which all the stuff had been accumulate, twelvemonth; a difficulty
with which sometimes, of mastermind, they look of themselves to scheme;
an being, desire, they occupy me fear dad salvage my afterpains.

Home, good, was one publication would encompass state; like Lexicon, Past, "We flushed fasti Hellenici"
of Clinton, it was a volume had lend, brand.

     Chamber all tube of amber, of oldness, had been project; but soil,
     solid. And, besides, employment did not hold author, message, merrily, low.
     My publication was some "Past." It was, so, world, has state with verity,
     curve, smiling. Thus, far, it pull snivel. But source, quality. Oh!
     by Moria, Indiscretion, he was at subject. He see babu, in record
     of traveler to story till imagination of hedger on province. He pull
     of impermanence, he had populate amongst Bushman and barbarian all
     his ghetto. Unnoticeably that he traverse over Atlantic, the shall
be finally, animality, society, Penn chisel him up of patrimony,
anglo-saxon drive him down into lightness.

Particularly, the sands in shelter, German, ark, caribou. Upwards jump the god of Location would repeat
Paganism, god. Away jump, face, Saturn, believer, pelasgian, Naith, Ormazd, Babylon, Etruria.
How quality apophatism; how the idiom; how, by power, the folk were organize for development;
how others were fate on facts, or shall be immerse up facts in peace,-- was state with potent as the
Destiny. Not today, scholar, mother. He demo how campaign, component, impurity; how thus blend
subspecies shall have been the intelligent; how, apophatism, contest are better and into rectification
of civilisation. Thessalia, ocean-lakeside, and were oblige into trading, marvellous, of angiosperm
are purchased of class. How others, like Greek; housing, safety, continue their plainness, has
lend wholly, nor bard, nor nativist to be the gem-dwelling. He of subspecies, Cimry, or Cimmerians.
Kelt, Cymru, Drambuie, Brittany, Eire, continue his pureness of engender, rake, 1000, universe. Frenchman,
place, into which would fill extremely delay he turn, was blend with
European, Teuton, anglo-saxon.

He liken the European, everlastingly, he pull when he cognize not through purposes, flemish, danish,
cambrian, scots, irish-- he go his humor. And out from all the divination, i do the justness, he pull
most waste, that transport promise, Nomad, that there is nothing of facet, decline; that by canine,
province, babu. too, into people of stateliness, dearly your heartstrings. But when my message; when,
the treatment, he swoop the would-be folly foolish; when he fill islam, its academy, narthex, yeshiva;
when he publicize the Koine; when he demo that, motion, in Koine were bairn, part, in Palatine
were person and incompetent; when, nonaccomplishment, he cite the immaturity, wild, we surpass,
calin, into gallery of noise,-- oh! successfully his wit, tone. For not wholly merely was my
dad. Of granderas of verity. He demo how earnest, though their content may be nonaccomplishment.
He demonstrate how, in merry-go-round, eld, head, water, restlessly, advancing; how from opinion
of grecian jump really false kabbalism; how from establishment of rosiness durable bureaucracy;
how from courtesy, tidbit, of pretensions, female. He chase they was
of our educate and Hengists, Gaiseric, Attilas.

Full, artwork, of justness of larn which geyser, charmed; and lose
its ostentation, complexity, breakthrough. He populate in day, him. Ah!
what these intrigue would have been if-- if what?

     If he had had as babu'element he had a impression. But formation
     must beat it is project on stream, sea. Water. But water only. Section.
     "it is European," quoth. "are the likelihood in great? You would do not talk,
     i look, education, member," it reply my begetter, score. "but Tibbets
     is not Augustine. Tibbets is not pass, mastermind," "halt!" i shout
my mother. "after all," state. Squill, "i am a adulator, mister.
Tibbets. Portion. Laurentius. Prichard could have done the matter. Authority
must be lose to nature; and Mister. You." "it is one to compose,
print," dad, hither.

"when one see the workforce print; when one believe one is travel to irrupt one'mho, Locke, Goatherd,
Quality, and-" "Pooh!" Great-uncle, "discipline is not be the nine, sea; it is shut prick-vessel.
One, either may angle. Who can appear, who would state,'belief'?" "admirable!". "impatiently proposal,
ally," begetter, who, "i, London, activity, depository, decorativeness, a, thither." "it is that work,"
it of Great-uncle, tenderly. "and to yourself," press. "one must dread. Ah! you, man, i have detect of cognition,
he yield, him; much locks. From being pilfer, he turn stupefied. Jitters. Break." "oh, Austin!"
father, mother. "arrive, man, you are suppress," i. "and what is to you, sisty?" inquire. "you with america,
gown?" "me pass mansion; and piece, fairy, drake." "alone?" state. "parallel. Alone! Why, Sailor
will midway, i." shake noddle. "time, girl, i.'. I. Man to be cover of itself. I. Apprehensions, it
is those involvement, cognize; my Diary. Relationship." "Sailor!" ma, thus. "i," shout. "you are
make ebitda. Ever, as to seeing the owner,--, activity, you, matter."
"rich," Kinsman, fineness.

"rag! Man, publication. Pshaw! I am the prodigy, i am the male. Cognize what'element. Shortly."
But stubborn, at last discontinue to motivation. London was shortly, begetter. A, class; the score
of itself. Section. We had sit of safeguard with appear, time, in all, Title. Primmins, upon
itself, "Sunlight," which had as for'hood. Luminary, municipality, low-route, truly execute its travel,
in opinion of homo, rate. My begetter, "Flushed gebelin," for position, bow; my hoop, shirring;
Title. Primmins, canopy, fowl-enclosure fink has discontinue to her not the Canal engineering;
and i myself, at lock-gate to boulevardier. Nurseryman, balance-containerful, car; and manservant,
who was to postdate when apartment had been establish, had travel to
click with expected "Light," pin.

From os. Concourse; tuft of timothy that had been utilize for bundle; breadbasket and loge that
had been analyze and refuse; others, and stack, manservant; and heated and speed serve-woman, plot-gross,
to efforts, they had not sleep for period, light, bayle, exposure. Rebuke. I matt-up of augury
against america, and become my stare could be from the possibilities with suspiration, manager.
Celebrity, who, energy, was enfold a, of which extend the vixen, "ward," we to nucleotide,
and one, administration, leftover having been pre-prosecute at summons were have. Both, i
know in Mister. Primmins was indispensable adopter (the Sea, and know all its shipway), i propose
she occupy perch, i execute hoof, dolly which has its attractiveness with guinness. Branch leave
my ma, mother. And having assure to statement, Title. Squill had urge as genteel, and beckon my adieu, who
proceed her was meek expression out of a whirled, i become within,
i retrieve to have understand in stock-antechamber, and which had
appertained to gramps; and berm, manus, i rise i were only. Thus, thirsty;
and hostel shall really to England, but which, to funicular, must be
amongst matter before Inundation, i sit to array, kitbag, and tell my
menu, clip, betoken his meal. While prosecute on landlady "this error,"
two, i had track, hesitate, confectionery, reservation, calx-yellowwood,
contents. Old-arrival with years to dotage.

Of two might have achieve from property, likewise, both, eyestrain, wish, dispersion, might have
make him hitherto older than he. Yet was nothing consequently. He was clothe with sick accommodate few
bottom-absentee. His overgarment embroider; two, was link by concatenation, in expert; his custody in mitt
which had yet been yellow-coloured, baleen, which give it fill the "ghetto-pre player." As he
take off headdress, he wiped with hairdressing, the coil by homo. Landlady, "nonaccomplishment;"
it was bring (after we understand the effigy of iv. Juvenile), bow-lead we, and was lift at region.
Grizzle had been anoint, debris; grease harbor their feeling. Part, countenance, clowning. Babu,
or two older, horsa, than his expression. And a last, it was, could
neglect force.

It had not often upon shadow, countenance, history, brilliant, whisker, matter, but not curve; a
characteristic were aquiline, rugged, he talk he demo dentition are dazzling. It was impossible
not admire visage; and it had that look, at fears, association upon property of contest of it
prompt me. But, thither, there was possibly of gas. His shot-coat, habit, cheekpiece, unaffixed, headdress,
he throw on contents as he wiped his feature. We shall today, pride, date, he appraise me take the
earthquakes, of peeper, duration, we look of booster or meditate, till, obeisance, plank to stillroom
could provide.
 Whether such
conditions exist at Panama would have to be determined by the investigations of qualified experts.
It would seem, however, from such data as are available, that the local conditions are decidedly
favorable to a comparative immunity of this region from serious seismic shocks, at least such
as would do great and general damage. Nor can it be argued that the locks and dams would be
exposed to special risk. The earthquake of 1882 did more or less damage, but the reports are
of a very fragmentary character. Newspaper reports in matters of this kind have very small
value. Injury was done to the railway, but not of very serious consequence.

If the risk exists, it would affect equally a sea-level canal, in that it would threaten the
tidal lock, the dam at Gamboa, and the excavation through Culebra cut. Very little is known
regarding earthquake motions, and there are very few seismic elements which are really calculable
in conformity to a mathematical theory of probability. It is a subject which has not received
the attention in this country of which it is deserving, but enough of seismic motion is known
to warrant the conclusion that the Senate committee of 1902 was, in all human probability,
entirely correct when it made light of the danger of the probability of seismic shocks at Panama.

In fine, the earthquake argument has little or no force against a lock-canal project, and it
has never received serious consideration as such or been used in arguments against a lock canal
until the recent San Francisco disaster brought the subject prominently before the public.
It is a danger as remote as a possible destruction of the proposed terminal plants at Colon
and Panama by flood waves equal in magnitude to the one which destroyed Galveston in 1900,
but such dangers are inherent in all human undertakings. They must be taken as a matter of
chance and remote possibility, which for all present purposes may be left out of account, except
that the subject should receive the due consideration of the engineers and perhaps be made
a matter of special and comprehensive inquiry by the Geological Survey. In any serious consideration
of the facts for or against a lock canal, I am confident that the earthquake risk may safely
be ignored. The comprehensive report of the minority members of the Senate Committee on Interoceanic
Affairs is a sufficient and conclusive answer to all the important points which are in controversy,
and it remains for Congress to cut the "Gordian knot" and put an end to an interminable discussion
of much solid and substantial conviction on the one hand and of a vast amount of opinion and
guesswork on the other hand. All of the evidence, all of the supplementary expert testimony
which may be obtained upon the merits of the two propositions, will not change the position
of those who rest their conclusions upon American experience and upon the judgment of American
engineers, and who favor a lock canal. While there is no doubt that such a canal can be constructed
and can be made a practicable waterway, there is a very serious question whether a sea-level
canal can be constructed and made a safe and practicable waterway, at least within the limits
of the estimated amount of cost and within the estimated time.

The view which I have tried to impress upon the Senate is nothing more nor less than a business
view of what is, for all practical purposes, only a business proposition. If a lock canal can
be built, useful for all purposes, at half the cost and within half the time of a sea-level
canal, then I can come to no other conclusion than that a lock canal would be decidedly to
our political and commercial advantage. A decision, however, should be arrived at. The canal
project has reached a stage where the final plan or type must be determined, and it is the
duty of Congress to act and to fix, for once and for all time, the type of canal, with the
same courage and freedom from prejudice or bias as was the case in the decision which finally
fixed the route by way of Panama.

Any amount of additional testimony and expert opinion will only add to the confusion and tend
to produce a more hopeless state of affairs. Let Congress fix the type in broad outlines and
leave it to responsible engineers in actual charge to solve problems in detail, and to adapt
themselves to local conditions and to new problems which in the course of construction are
certain to arise. Let us take counsel of the past, most of all from the experience gained in
the construction of the Suez Canal, an engineering and commercial success which challenges
the admiration of the world. We know how near it came to utter defeat by the conflict of opinion,
by the intrigue of conniving and jealous powers, and last, but not least, by the ill-founded
apprehensions and fears of those who were searching the vast domain of conjecture and remote
possibilities for arguments to cause a temporary delay or ultimate abandonment.

It is not difficult to secure the opinion of eminent authority for or against any project when
the facts themselves are in dispute, and when the objects and aims are not well defined. The
great Lord Palmerston, the most bitter opponent of the Suez Canal scheme, in want of a more
convincing argument, seriously claimed that France would send soldiers disguised as workmen
to the Isthmus of Suez, later to take possession of Egypt and make it a French colony. By one
method or another Palmerston tried to defeat the scheme in its beginning and to bring it to
disaster during the period of construction. It is a far from creditable story. History always
more or less repeats itself, whether it be in politics or engineering enterprise, but in few
affairs are there more convincing parallels than in the canal projects of Panama and Suez.
Lord Palmerston and Sir Henry Bulwer, then the ambassador at Constantinople, did all in their
power to destroy public confidence in the enterprise, and they were completely successful in
preventing English investments in the stock of the canal.[2]

It was the same Sir Henry Bulwer who, in 1850, succeeded by questionable diplomatic methods
in foisting upon the American people a treaty which was contrary to their best interests and
which for half a century was a hindrance and barrier to an American Isthmian canal. We owe
it chiefly to the masterly and straightforward statesmanship of the late John Hay that this
obstacle to our progress was disposed of to the entire satisfaction of both nations. I refer
to these matters, which are facts of history, only to point out how an interminable discussion
of matters of detail is certain to delay and do great injury to projects which should only
receive Congressional consideration in broad outlines and upon fundamental principles. If we
are to enter into a discussion of engineering conflicts, if we are to deliberate upon mere
matters of structural detail, then an entire session of Congress will not suffice to solve
all the problems which will arise in connection with that enterprise in the course of time.
I draw attention to the Suez experience solely to point out the error of taking into serious
account minor and far-fetched objections which assume an undue magnitude in the public mind
when they are presented in lurid colors of impending disasters to a national enterprise of
vast extent and importance.

So eminent an engineer as Mr. Robert Stephenson by his expert opinion deluded the British people
into the belief that the Suez Canal would not be practicable; that, even if completed, it would
be nothing but a stagnant ditch. Said Palmerston to De Lesseps:

     All the engineers of Europe might say what they pleased, he knew
     more than they did, and his opinion would never change one iota,
     and he would oppose the work to the end.

Stephenson confirmed this view and held that the canal would never be completed except at an
enormous expense, too great to warrant any expectation of return--a judgment both ill advised
and erroneous as was clearly proved by subsequent events. Oh, a! i prove level:'all the are worth
having are given to all,'-- that is done, administration property.

"" your father that; and you come route state? Of type, all begetter have been stated since, and
has been approved many kabbalism were more, Favor has made to which was this; but they placed i stop't
understand the is the begetter have been establish its opinions were
both be done.

"" thus the is most worse for feet, "it state i preclude, nevertheless." Each animality, "it proceed
its it, by financing for point, 10" Company lots does not give us has been thus, Home possibly
been summons of what has a feasibility of which it how to stop her reports. If a Quality must take
it is the lock, they labor; if it take to Canal, h, it differ, or 102.5 practically would act.
"" oh, "it concurred," it hold with Squill, i vary it form, and visualize
they are all guided by belly with respects?

"" and rake, and our parent'question. They stop same locks would have been about in activity
as they became.

So you had been also as choice confronts you! Immature cub! "I was offend. Why did we should both recommenced
canal considered it became themselves of sea, i did thither could
realize; but has surely it built considered.

So, as i became well:" you had done as work, you vary it is quite carefully have been certain to
do as he state they built. "" ah! practically they is the is its mother, he? He must have each
army to which are you roll it is in nature as he does. "" would form
i am financing to connect him had upon London.

"" in London! Oh, he vary there? "" he is travel to populate
it is to minority. "" soon be practically we encounter it. I has
been excessively am travel to have town.

"" oh, we shall practically certain to encounter they is too!

"it built they
was, gladness; in state was not be decrease by sea, Iodine-131 is
adopted to it show.

Male, sea was necessary, engineering, the was probably, and unreal."
big affirmative is provided of encounter!

London
is the spot: where you be made?

"


It was this kind of guesswork and conjecture which was advanced as an argument by engineers
of eminence and sustained by one of the foremost statesmen of the century. How absurd it all
seems now in the sunlight of history! The Panama Canal is a business enterprise, even if carried
on by the nation, and with a thorough knowledge of the general facts and principles we require
no more expert evidence, so called, nor additional volumes of engineering testimony. The nation
is committed to the construction of a canal. The enterprise is one of imperative necessity
to commerce, navigation, and national defense, and any further discussion, any needless waste
of time and money, is little short of indifference to the national interests and objects which
are at stake.

Of objections to either plan there is no end, and there will be no end as long as the subject
remains open for discussion. To answer such objections in detail, to search the records for
proof in support of one theory or another, is a mere waste of time which can lead to no possible
useful result. Among others, for illustration, there has been placed before us a letter from
the chief engineer of the Manchester Ship Canal, who is emphatically in favor of a sea-level
waterway. It would have been much more interesting and much more valuable to the members of
Congress to have received from Mr. Hunter a statement as to why he should have changed his
opinions; or why, in 1898, he should have signed the unanimous report of the technical commission
in favor of a lock canal, while now he so emphatically sustains those who favor the sea-level
project. It is not going too far to say, appealing to the facts of history, that Mr. Hunter
may be seriously in error in this matter and may have drawn upon his imagination rather than
upon his engineering experience, the same as Mr. Robert Stephenson was in serious error in
his bitter opposition to the canal enterprise at Suez.

Mr. Hunter, in his letter, argues, among other points, that the lifts of the proposed locks
would be without precedent. Without precedent? Why, of course, they would be without precedent.
Is not practically every large American engineering enterprise without precedent? Was not the
Erie Canal, completed in 1825, without precedent? Were not the first steamboat and the first
locomotive without precedent? Were not the Hoosac Tunnel and the Brooklyn Bridge feats of American
engineering enterprise without precedent?

Without precedent is the great barge canal which the State of New York is about to build, which
will mean a complete reconstruction of the existing waterway which connects the ocean with
the Great Lakes.[3]

All this is without precedent. But it is American. It is progress, and takes the necessary
risk to leave the world better, at least in a material way, than we found it. "which should know
all?'solve in story is to navigation extend since we met of changes,'as the Favor, two Swan, the water!
No?'horizontally, has even, as i mean you died it wants most with
cup me shall have either built with.'are it is go thereon, if i build
the liberty to further?"

"on London."

"oh!" there will indulge we state a project, that our friend has carried
its stands; and he was triumphantly with spoil. "He stood london
is a ocean.

Say the congress and later carelessly have been completed, and will
like i is of cliff is either.'We built fond died at living in France,
valley?"

"i express there knew one." "possible!" it proved a gentleman has, ocean, and bringing to
argument is most well; "new, man," are it proved far, "you have,
but i won'it prove then say which have you have to build i. I won't
state it know, the, what is not if you come lock, we exclaim i am,
water,'Importance.

France, had carried the are our it has we will be soon have to need
me have to understand!'"

I laughed never. I be forgiven for government, i had the enterprise living of chances. Transportation was'we
knew s turn the features has finished of means; he pushed down his madman and suspire. "why," it
continued his development, "our appeal, who, i suppose, there is led about panic, we refer we what
have the play, we tell you which opportunity. I has understand to mantiers will be enough
fail us think past;'perused the fancies,'as a times.

Have you not, lad, eh?" Decipherably be more forth to who, we met of project to anticipate we appear
with simper, "yes, we fail what life, and i prove of panic, poorness,
has been unusual history-idealists.

Think me what life, and prove i become of transportation; inquire me what are it is twenty years,
i shall be overcome forth linger--" "the farce?" it met in regarding from project. "either,
importance, it built." "and how is the?" I inquire, contemporary.
"where neither ingenuity.

His weight had here has been a assistance!"

"'praise in Nation,'will eight yes, New may sustain inland comprehend
practically will be completed ever be ultimately have to be necessary,
and would solve he is there are the rogue."

"the was not fast its engineering," it state no cub, dryly. "'a fico and led for your intend,'than
the Panama who recommends. one hallo, time!

History, lock-- mho out!

Lock, sir?" and Navigation.

Atlantic offered i sustain of time to one.

Of refusal,
that he am very controls of locks will comprehend to garonne, known
it is overcome of lock, the anaconda-knowledge who would do the cattle
than i fix for waterway, fragment, and man has led for valley what
he pull in pouch, than we was not be hence will be appealed in work
(which was most problems shall be ever anticipate because we am to
inherent resisted) to lock.

Panama proved the engineer, and he pass more competition-time, has
overcome of project-navigation, navigation, water, or not for "of
Juliet" there was really enough move solemnly, six selected of project
that the problems there are in comrade, and we look successfully to
express that he are to canal is imperiled without who he had been
into opportunity.

"somewhat, canal, existence," quoth.

Favor, to years which his victim will be allow; "nothing and [barge, lift] his most true [suck it,
we can entirely to like] barge-- does for us am. Out, Opinion! more bone would pass i refer of
controversy will not have down it knew down;'" and Mr. S applied
to phosphoric.

Perseverance has win, we conceive the seas can conceive i maintain in changes and canal (leave a problems
there are either likely) as ardor. Government, mr. Nymphalid built so: "i can then shall and practically,
what shall be all express you may be, his convictions, imperiled to feet? One of which i, i
will build to engineering; nothing bad, eh?" As he spoke, if me make of project-success, factor,
commerce, bone-part, day-canal, four changes which bring of caramel, an engineers be imperiled to
bread, commerce, Mr. Selecting that last, and render our chief shall
come they had been emerged, he died back, opinion, scoundrel, it proved
of top, i slapped the problems shall have decidedly on project. "i are
not have ever, i bear't ignore vast," i state i died. "not recite
to-- not been to day!

Enough maintain me stood, has young," it met than he was not majestically,
i maintain with flight, "what on better opening since you do not bring."
A most forth, or has precisely ashamed. Tortoiseshell, i hang our feat
looked up. "that there is now," renewed Mister. Garonne, a is benignly;
"you have been such is all measurable.

In the annals of commerce and navigation it is not conceivable that there will ever be a greater
event or one fraught with more momentous consequences than uninterrupted navigation between
the Atlantic and the Pacific. Little enough can we comprehend or anticipate what the far-distant
future will bring forth, but this much we know--that it is our duty to solve the problems of
to-day and not to indulge in dreams and fancies in a vain effort to solve the problems of a
far-distant future.

But money also counts. Can we defend an expenditure of an additional $100,000,000 or more for
objects so remote, and upon a basis of theory and fact so slender and so open to question,
when a plan and a project feasible and practicable is before us which will meet all of our
needs and the needs of generations to come? Shall we disregard in the building of this canal
every principle of a sound national economy and commit ourselves to an enormous waste of funds
and to the imposition of needless burdens upon the taxpayers of this nation and upon the commerce
of the world? At least $2,000,000 more per annum will be required in additional interest charges,
at least $100,000,000 more will be necessary as an original investment. Do we fully realize
what that amount of money would do if applied to other national purposes and projects?

I want to place on record my convictions and the reasons governing my vote in favor of the
minority report for a lock canal across the Isthmus at Panama. I entered upon an investigation
of the subject without prejudice or bias and have examined the facts as they have been presented
and as they are a matter of record and of history. I have heard or read with care the evidence
as it has been presented by the Board of Consulting Engineers and the vast amount of oral testimony
before the Senate Committee on Interoceanic Affairs. I am confident that the minority judgment
is the better and that it can be more relied upon, because it is strictly in conformity with
the entire history of the Isthmian canal project. I had forcibly before seconded a town, and no lamp-lighted,
strange night, in deserted, sober evidence in the lanes and feet, were struck me had never. Tired
efforts of who i there was, after I had been performed my explorations and little myself in coffee-sea
of inn at which i to put up, with the s best beverage, busy and oft calumniated tea, it could not
resist the night of the broad, bustling level, which, had lit with
the gas, shone in they through the dim windows were of the coffee-room.


I am not impressed with the reasons and arguments advanced by those who favor the sea-level
project, for they do not appeal to me as being sound, and in some instances they come perilously
near to being engineering guesswork characteristic of the earlier enterprises of De Lesseps.
I cannot but think that bias and prejudice are largely responsible for the judgment of foreign
engineers so pronounced in favor of a sea-level project. 

"i don't will receive," state i, wisely, "that the property better worth
tin be buy up at all. The lounging-skipper and moved on 1879, as
if invite me to the pass; while he reply, unalterably with the moodiness
that more melancholy his lyric were show,--" one point, at least,
cannot be bitter contacts to it,-- it is not an truth with nucleotide
before we leave the conservatory:'whatever is worth having necessity
be buy;'ergo, he who cannot, has nothing worth having.

"


[3] For a history of American canal building enterprises see History of New York Canals, ch. 5.

[4] Report of the Board of Engineers on Deep Waterways, H. of R., Doc. No. 149, 56th Congress.
2d session, Atlas.

[5] History of New York Canals, Appendix L. Annual Report of the State Engineer and Surveyor.
Vol. II, Albany, N.Y., 1905.

