Although Miss Baring was a person of very little consequence in her father's house, she acted
on Mr. Baring as a drag. Her cold looks inadvertently damped him; and she had a way, which
he could not account for in his daughter, of making blunt speeches, like that on the auspicious
occasion and on her being left a rich young widow, if Gervase Norgate did for himself smartly.
This was discomfiting even to a man who piqued himself on his resources in conversation. Die
had uttered twice as many of these abrupt, unamiable, unanswerable rejoinders within these
twenty-four hours, since she had accepted Gervase Norgate's hand.

Whatever Mr. Baring thought of the rebuff, he was above exhibiting any sign of his feelings,
and no one could have refused him the tribute of consideration for the position of his companions,
as he blandly announced that he had the day's 'Chronicle' to read, and begged to be excused
for accomplishing the task before post-time. He retired to sip his tea and disappear behind
the folds of his newspaper. It was the first evening for a dozen years that he had not handled
cue or fingered cards.

Gervase Norgate, assuming his character of a man about to amend his ways, marry, and settle,
sat by Die Baring. He noted and summed up the girl's good points, as no man in love ever yet
did. She was a finer-looking woman than he had supposed,--one to be proud of as he presented
her to his friends as his wife; pity that he had so few creditable friends left now! He could
think of none at that moment except his strong-minded old Aunt Tabby, who had some sneaking
kindness for him in the middle of her scorn, and his old man, Miles. Die Baring would not tolerate
his boon companions--not that he wanted her to tolerate them; she would not suit for his mistress
and manager if she did; though where she got her niceness--seeing what her father was up to
in cool, barefaced scampishness, in horse-flesh, bones, and pasteboard--he could not tell.--She
was a capable woman he was certain, if she got a fair field for her capability. She was clever:
anybody with half an eye or an ear might recognize that. And she would want all her cleverness--ay,
and her will and temper--for what she would have to do. But she had undertaken the task, and
it was not much to the purpose that if she had not been the daughter of a disreputable spendthrift
she would doubtless as lief have touched live coals as have submitted to be his wife. Ah, well,
it was his luck in his last toss-up, and he had never been lucky before; yet he had never felt
so great a reluctance to conclude his engagement of twenty-four hours, and clinch his repentance,
as he did at this moment. It was good for him that he stood committed. But why had he not sought
out some humble, meek lass, who would still have looked up to him and reckoned him not quite
such a reprobate, but believed that there was some good left in him, and liked him a little
for himself--not married him to suit her own book and save him for her own sake, if it were
possible? Why had he not chosen a simple pet lamb, in place of a proud heifer who scarcely
took the trouble to conceal from him how it galled her neck to put it into his yoke? Psha!
he would break any poor heart with his incorrigible wildness and beastly sottishness in a month's
time. A woman without a heart; a good, hard-mouthed, strong-pulling, well-wearing woman,--honest,
and a lady; a handsome, superior woman, and far beyond his deserts, was the wife for him.

Gervase pursued this line of thought; but he spoke to Miss Baring, after a little introductory
flourish about the weather, his ride from Ashpound, and the embroidery which she had taken
up, in a different strain.

"You have shown a great, I must say an unmerited, trust in me, Miss Baring--Diana: but I mean--I
swear I mean to do the best I can for you and myself. I have thought better of the life I have
been leading; I shall turn over a new leaf, and be another man if you will help me."

The confession was fatally facile, like most confessions, but it was sincere, and not without
its touching element, which, however, did not reach her.

She replied, without being greatly moved, and corrected what might be a slight misconception
on his part: "I am quite aware, Mr. Norgate, that you have been rather wild; but since you
mean to do better, I am willing to try you and to be your wife."

Diana's candid acquiescence had the same disconcerting influence upon Gervase that her speeches
had on her father, unlike as the men were: it struck him dumb when he should have overwhelmed
her with thanks. After a while he recovered himself, took heart of grace, and blundered out
that he was grateful,--a happy man; would she not say Gervase, when she was having him altogether?

"I suppose I may," acceded Diana, with a hard smile. "There, Gervase--it is not hard to say,"
as if she were humouring him.

He did not ask for any more favours or rights, but maundered a little on nobody calling him
Gervase for many a day except his aunt Tabby, and she contracted it to Jarvie, which had a
stage-coach flavour.

"Tell me something about your aunt Tabby. Do you know, I have not visited an aunt since I was
a little girl of ten?" This afforded him an opening more naturally and pleasantly, and the
two went off on Aunt Tabby instead of accomplishing more courtship, and got on a little better.
Diverging from Aunt Tabby to her place, and from her place to Ashpound, they went on with mention
of Gervase's factotum, Miles, and discussed capabilities and future arrangements with wonderful
common sense.

Mr. Baring swallowed his last gape over his 'Chronicle,' concluded that the couple had surely
had their swing of private conversation for one night, and resolved to curtail the courtship
to the shortest decorous bounds. So Mr. Baring looked at his watch, and said quite lovingly
to Gervase: "My boy, when I do act the family man, I do the thing thoroughly, by supping in
my dressing-room at eleven. What! you are off? A pleasant ride to you. You will receive your
orders from Die, I fancy, when to report yourself in attendance. To-morrow is it, or next day?
Make yourself at home, my dear fellow. Happy to think that you are going to be one of us--a
son for me to be proud of. Good-night. God bless you."

Thus the preliminaries to the alliance ended with Gervase bowing again over the tips of Die's
fingers. He had not the smallest inclination to raise them to his lips.

"I will do my duty by him," said Diana to herself, when she was in the sanctuary of her own
bare room. And what a poor sanctuary it had been! "It may be bad in me to have him, but what
can I do? and what can he do, for that matter? If I do my duty by him, surely some good will
come of it." Perhaps her imagination was haunted by a garbled version of the text about him
who turns a sinner from the error of his ways and covers a multitude of sin.

II.--THE FULFILMENT.

"She's a fine woman the mistress, a rare fine woman; but she's going the wrong way. It's the
cart before the horse, and I tell you it's not conformable; and the master, God help him, poor
fellow, will never be brought to go at the tail of the cart--never." So ruminated Gervase Norgate's
old servant, Miles, pushing back the tufts of ragged red hair on his long head ruefully, as
he sat "promiscuous" in what he was pleased to call his pantry at Ashpound, while he contemplated
with the eye of the body his chamois skin for what he proudly denominated his silver, and with
the eye of the mind the new régime and its ruling spirit.

"She's a fine woman," remarked also of her new niece, Miss Tabitha Norgate, of Redwells. "She's
a fine woman, a great deal too good for him; but she oughtn't to have gone and married Jarvie,
or to have married anybody, there's the long and the short of it. She ought to have remained
single, like me. She was made to stand alone, while he wanted a woman and as many children
as she could muster to hang round his neck--the liker a millstone the better,--he won't drown:
he could not take the straight road without a weight to ballast him and keep him steady. If
he had consulted me, I would have advised him to marry that dawdling, whimpering Susie Lefroy,
the widowed daughter of the Vicar, with her unprovided-for orphans. Jarvie might have stepped
into a young family at once, and he would have been a kind stepfather--he might have righted
himself then. To go and marry a clever, active, handsome, well-born woman like Die Baring.
Oh! dear, dear, what folly!"

In spite of her critics, Mrs. Gervase Norgate spared no pains to acquit herself of her obligation,
and to discharge her debt at Ashpound. Ashpound was a much more exhilarating residence than
Newton-le-Moor. At Newton-le-Moor the desolation of prodigality and immorality was objective
and deductive. At Ashpound the desolation was subjective and inductive, a plague-spot within;
and although the flush of decay was visible, Gervase would struggle against it to the last.
He would make an effort to preserve the pleasant, rambling, mellow brick house, most of it
one-storied and draped with jessamine and clematis as old as the building; the belt of ash-trees
round the ferny dells of the little park; and the whitewashed offices, in excellent repair;
the well cared for cattle and poultry-yard; the amply-stocked, flourishing gardens; the pretty
gardener's house and lodge--the prettiest things about the place, as his father had left them
to him. To the last Gervase would aim at keeping up the place, to his mother's drawing-room,
his father's study, Miles's pantry and cellar, even the modern housekeeper's room, and the
maids' gallery, in comfort and pleasantness. Only his own rooms--dining-room, smoking-room,
bedroom--had been suffered to show traces of many a brawl and fray. It was as if he had deemed
anything good enough for a scapegrace and beast like him, and thought to pay the whole price
in his own person. It would not be with his will if any other person, high or low, contributed
to his heavy forfeits. And Gervase Norgate's servants, new as well as old, had a pitiful liking
for him, a remorseful regard for his interests, even when these clashed with their own. So
when Gervase had removed the traces, repaired the damages, and taken the decisive step of forbidding
the inroads of his evil associates, Mrs. Gervase Norgate found a peaceful, prosperous-seeming,
as well as fair, country home awaiting her.

Neither did Mrs. Gervase Norgate droop or mope; she was alive to every advantage, alert to
improve every opportunity. Frankly she praised the house at Ashpound, which she had formerly
known at the distance of common acquaintanceship, but now knew in the nearness of home, from
garret to cellar. "What a well-seasoned, kindly dwelling you have here, Gervase. How I like
the windows opening down to the floors, the creeping plants, the hall window-seats, and the
attics with their pigeon-hole bureaux." She made herself familiar with its details, and she
flattered its old occupants with the extent of her intimacy and appreciation. She did not let
the grass grow beneath her feet in learning and acquiring its owner's habits. Early rising
had been one of the good old country habits which had stuck to Gervase. And not a dairymaid
at Ashpound was up and abroad at so primitive an hour as its mistress, ready to walk with the
Squire to his horses' stalls and paddocks, his cattle sheds, his game preserves, his workpeople
in the fields; anywhere but to the sign of the 'Spreading Ash-tree,' in the village of Ash-cum-thorpe,
for his morning draught.

"Well-a-day," cried Dolly; "I would not be the mistress, to rise and go to her work afore the
stroke of six, and she a fine lady born and bred, for all the hats and feathers, table heads,
and carriage-seats in this here world. If I ever have a word to say to Luke Jobling, I know
it will be with an eye to a good long lie in the morning when he has gone to his mowing or
his reaping. How Madam does it without ever drooping an eyelid, none of us can tell; but they
do say the gentlefolks are as strong as steel when they like to put out their strength; happen
it is the high living as gives it to them. I know Madam puts us to our mettle here. And lawk!
the Squire, he's as restless and lost like as a new weaned calf. Eh! I had liefer have the
holding-in of a senseless calf, though I had not Luke to help me with the bars of the gates,
than the holding in of a full-grown, whole-witted man. But the poor mistress--them as don't
know the rights of a thing calls her saucy--young lady though she be, she do work hard for
her place and living, she do, since she has got Master Gervase and Ashpound."

Anticipating her husband's commands, Diana was ever ready to bear him company, to share his
engagements and amusements, walking, riding, shooting, fishing, playing billiards, cribbage,
bowls, racket, backgammon, draughts, for hours on a stretch; to go abroad attending the market
and doing banking business at Market Hesketh, dining out with the Vicar or with any country
host save Mr. Baring--Mrs. Gervase Norgate setting her face against the paternal hospitalities--dancing
at the county balls as one of the leaders. She did not seem to know what weariness meant. She
would trudge whole half-days with him and the keepers, after luncheon, beating the plantations
and pacing the turnip-fields to start and bring down birds, and she would be sauntering with
him on the terrace and in the park after dinner all the same. She would be in the saddle ten
hours during a long day's hunt, as the autumn advanced and the meets assembled, and within
an hour of alighting at the door of Ashpound, she would have exchanged muddy bottle-green or
Waterloo blue cloth for glistening white satin, and be stepping into the carriage with Gervase
to be present at one of their wedding parties.

There was something positively great in the intentness with which the woman pursued her end
of the man's salvation; the vigilance with which she ever kept sight of the wounded quarry
she was to rescue and to restore. The neighbourhood watched the struggle with interest, admiration,
hostile criticism, not very delicate diversion. Only to John Fitzwilliam Baring the struggle
was a matter of indifference--rather of repugnance. He would have liked Die to be more feminine
and more helpless.

Would Die slacken in her energy and devotion? Would Gervase be able to bear his cure much longer?

Beyond the honeymoon, and with the feeling decidedly growing, Gervase Norgate was gratified
by his wife's sacrifice of herself in every respect, and long before he grew accustomed to
it and felt easy under it, he was touched by it. He liked her company too, for he was fond
of society, and had been lonely since his father and mother died. She was an observant, intelligent
woman, high-minded and pure-hearted, and vastly superior to his late satellites. She was eager
to suit herself to him, and made herself as free with him as she could be, as far as he knew,
with any one. At this season Gervase Norgate was attracted to something warmer, sweeter, more
intimate in their intercourse. He enjoyed her quick remarks and shrewd conclusions. He was
pleased with, and proud of the new blossoming of her beauty under the combined influences of
an open-air life, constant occupation, and a powerful object. He was willing to wait till more
tender feelings should awaken between them. It looked as if Gervase Norgate had turned over
a new leaf: his cheek lost its dull, engrained red, or its pallor; his lips grew firmer; his
eyes clearer and cooler; he raised his head, and threw off something of the slouch of his shoulders
and the swing and uncertainty of his walk.

"How well you look in that pretty dress, Diana!" he would say; "I declare you are as brave
a figure as any in my Lord's picture-gallery. Let me fetch you a cluster of monthly roses,
though I am not fit to hold the candle to you." Or, "Come, Die, let us have a stroll and a
smoke in the garden." Or, "Sit still for another game, will you? My hand is just in and my
luck beginning. I know you are never tired. Mrs. Gervase, you are a trump--the ace of trumps."

Ignorant spectators might have set them down for a good, happy, well-met young couple, with
regard to whom it would be simply and equally appropriate to wish "God bless them."

III.--HAZARD.

Diana did not slacken in her devotion, but there came a limit to the endurance of Gervase.
The gleam of success was but the gleam before the overcast.

First, Gervase was conscious of being nettled by the distance which existed between him and
Diana. And certainly, to be sensible of his arm being arrested by an unseen obstacle when he
thought to put it round his own wife's waist, to collapse in the mere idea of asking her to
give him a kiss, never to have felt so fully the dissipated, degraded fool he had been, as
he felt then, was not a pleasant sensation. It may sound immoral, but it seemed as if, had
Gervase been more depraved, there would have been more hope for him, since he would have appreciated
the gulf between him and his guardian less.

Then the old craving returned like a death thirst. The old, wild, worthless, low companions,
were cognisant, as if by instinct, of a relapse. Eager to hail its signs, and profit by them,
they waylaid him at the 'Spreading Ash,' with "Hey, don't you dare to swallow a single glass
in your own village, to give custom to your villager, man?" They waylaid and gathered round
him in the market-place of Market Hesketh, with "Well met, Mr. Gervase Norgate. Lord! are you
alive still? for we had doubted it. Don't speak to him to detain him, you fellows; don't you
see Mrs. Gervase has her eye upon him, and is craning her neck to discover what is keeping
him? Off with you, sir, since you are a husband, a reformed rake, and a church-goer. If you
had gone and joined the Methodists, you might have been a preacher yourself by this time. Oh!
we don't want to spoil sport and balk your good intentions; but, by George, Gervase, we never
thought you would have been the man to be tied so tight to a woman's apron-string. You must
spare us one more carouse for old friendship's sake, my boy, just to try what it is like again,
and hear all the news. Ah! your teeth are watering; come along; Madam is not to swallow you
up entirely."

They got him away from his wife, and made him leave her sitting an hour in the carriage, with
a pair of young horses pawing and rearing and endangering her very life in the yard of the
'Crown.' They made him send her home without him, and kept him till they had nothing more to
say than "Heave the poor devil into a gig, and drive him up to his own door and put him down
there. It is the best you can do for him,--the fool was always so easily upset; and it will
do for her at the same time--give her something to hold her cursed high white head in the air
and turn up her nose for; serve her impudence right for taking it upon her to act as private
policeman to Jarvie." They sent him home to her, a beast who had been with wild beasts. They
did it for the most part heedlessly, in jollity and jeering; but they did it not the less effectually.
The wild beast of sensuality had him again; not one devil, but seven, had entered into him;
and reigning king over the others, an insensate devil of cruel jealousy of his wife, of his
gaoler, resenting her efforts, defying her pains.

Diana did not take Gervase Norgate's backsliding to her very heart, was not wounded to death
by it as if she had loved him. But she did not give him up. She was a tenacious woman, and
Gervase Norgate's salvation was her one chance of moral redemption from the base barter of
her marriage. She did not reproach him: she was too proud a woman, too cold to him, to goad
and sting him by reproaches. They might have served her end better than the terrible aggravation
of her silence. She was just too, and she did not accuse him unduly. She said to herself, "He
is a poor, misguided fellow, a brute where drink is concerned: when I married him, that was
as clear as day. I have no right to complain, though he resume his bad courses." Still she
left no stone unturned; she was prepared, as before, to ride and walk and play with him at
all hours; she ignored his frequent absences and the condition in which he came back, as far
as possible. She abetted old Miles in clearing away, silently and swiftly, the miserable evidences
of mischief. She smuggled out of sight, and huddled into oblivion, battered hats, broken pipes
and sticks, stopperless flasks, cracked, smoky lanterns--concealing them with a decent, decorous,
sacred duplicity even from Aunt Tabby, who trotted across the country on her father's old trotting
mare, took her observations, and departed, shaking her head and moralizing on the text, "Cast
not your pearls before swine."

Diana sat at her forlorn post in the billiard-room, or by the cribbage-board, or at the piano
which Gervase had got for her. She had some small skill to play and sing to him, and was indefatigable
in learning the simple tunes and songs he liked. And night after night she was left alone,
unapproached, uncalled for; or else Gervase stumbled in from the dining-room or from an adjournment
to the village tavern, where he was the acknowledged king and emperor, bemussed, befumed, giddy,
hilarious, piteously maudlin, or deliriously furious. She stooped to smile and answer his random
ravings and to comply with his demands. If she escaped actual outrage and injury in his house
and hers, it was not because she did not provoke him, for there was nothing in his wife which
Gervase hated so heartily, resented so keenly, as her refraining from contradicting him. But
below the grossness and sin of the poor lout and caitiff there was a fund of sullen, latent
manliness and kindness, which held him back from insulting the defenceless woman--for all her
pride and purity--who was his wife, just as it had held him back from dallying with and caressing
her as his mistress.

The neighbourhood which had furnished both a dress-circle and a pit to witness Diana's spectacle,
was not astonished at the fate of the adventure. Its success would have been little short of
a miracle, and these were not the days of faith in miracles; so the neighbourhood did not pity
Mrs. Gervase Norgate, for she had been foolhardy at the best, and her fortune or misfortune
had only been what ought to have been expected. For that matter Mrs. Gervase Norgate would
not have thanked the world for its pity, though it had been lavishly vouchsafed.

There was one point on which Diana did not hesitate to contradict Gervase, and persisted in
contradicting him. She would not suffer him, if she could help it, to frequent Newton-le-Moor,
or to consort with Mr. Baring. For to go to Newton-le-Moor was to go among the Philistines;
and lawless as Gervase was in his own person, it should never be with his wife's consent that
he should go and be plundered by her own flesh and blood--his errors rendering him but a safer
and a surer prey.

Gervase was standing restless and indignant by the low bow-window of his wife's drawing-room,
opening on the flower-garden, which had been laid out in their honeymoon, and in which she
continued to take pleasure, though the wealth of glowing autumn geraniums and verbenas had
given place to the few frosted winter chrysanthemums. It was but the middle of the day, and
he had risen and had his cup of tea laced with brandy and crowned with brandy, so that the
jaded man was comparatively fresh, but irritable to the last nerve, each jarring nerve twanging
like harpstrings, sending electric thrills of vexation and rage over his whole body at the
cross of every straw.

Diana, who had been up and busy for hours, was sitting at her desk; her brow, whatever cares
lurked behind it, unruffled and white; a seemly, reasonable, refined woman, aggrieved every
day she lived, but scorning to betray a knowledge of the grievance.

"Don't go to Newton, above all by yourself, Gervase," the wife was entreating, gravely and
earnestly. "I am afraid my father may take the opportunity of trying to get money from you.
He has entered horses for the Thorpe stakes: he will seek to make you enter them, and you told
me yourself May and Highflyer were not fit to run this year. Or he will seek to lead you into
some other transaction in horse-flesh, or have you into the house to play billiards and remain
to dinner and cards all night, and there is always high play at Newton. My father is a needy
man, and needy men are tempted to be unscrupulous; at least his code implies few scruples,
where the letter of the laws of honour is complied with."

"It comes ill off your hand to say so," observed Gervase harshly. Undoubtedly he spoke no more
than the truth, and such a life as Gervase Norgate's was not a school for magnanimity.

Die winced a little; and she was a woman whose fair cheek so rarely blushed, that her blushing
was like another woman's crying. Die never cried; Gervase Norgate had never wrung a tear from
her, or seen her shed a tear.

"Well, it was hard for me to say it," she admitted, with an accent of reproach in her equable
tones; "but there the wrong and the shame are, and I owe it to myself and to you to warn you."

"I wonder how much I owe your being here to Newton-le-Moor being little better than a not very
reputable gambling-house," exclaimed Gervase rudely.

She looked at him with her wide-open eyes, as if she had been struck, but did not care to own
the blow.

"It was not to much profit where you were concerned," he continued, in an infatuation of brutality;
"it did not get you so much as a pocket-handkerchief, or a flower-garden like that down there,
or," glancing round him, "trumpery hangings and mirrors, and a new gown or two, or any other
of the miserable trash for which women sell themselves."

She neither spoke nor stirred.

He had worked himself into a blindness of rage, in which he could see nothing before him but
the possibility of moving her, of breaking down and destroying her calm front.

"And I wonder how much you owe your being here to my being a prodigal clutching at any respite?
You may well come down lightly on my faults, Madam; they have made you the mistress of Ashpound
in the present, and won for you its widow's jointure in the future. If I had known all beforehand,
I might not have encumbered myself in vain. As it is, I do not think it becomes you to lecture
me on keeping company with your own father."

She got up and left the room.

It was time, when all was lost, even honour. If he had not been himself, she might have passed
over his taunts with simple shame and disgust; but given, as they were, when she held that
he knew what he was saying--as a proof that he had not a particle of respect and regard for
her after their months of wedlock, they were a certain indication of his ruin and her reward.

IV.--THE LAST THROW.

"Poor Mrs. Gervase Norgate, she must have been so put about to have to go away with her husband
last night. How the scamp got into the drawing-room I cannot tell; but he could do nothing
but lean against the wall: he could not have bitten his fingers to save his life. She did not
show her mortification unless by going away immediately. A wonderful amount of countenance
has that poor young woman; but I take it she will not go out with him again if she can help
it--and she need not, she need not, Lady Metcalfe. I can tell you he shall not be asked within
my doors again; but I shall be very glad if you will always remember to send her a card, poor
thing: she can go out without him, it must come to that eventually. It is not a mere kindness;
she is really a credit and an ornament to your parties, to the county set altogether. But the
sooner she learns to go out without him, and keep him in the background, the better for all
parties. She has the command of a good income still, with a very tolerable jointure behind
it, and Ashpound is a pretty place; not a fine place, like my lord's, but a very pretty place
for a sensible woman's management and enjoyment."

One of Gervase Norgate's oldest neighbours, a fussy but good-natured, middle-aged baronet,
pronounced this judgment.

There was nothing left for Diana but to resign Gervase to his fate, and gather up the gains
which were left her. The most impartial authorities decided so. The gains would have sufficed
for many a woman. Mrs. Gervase Norgate had comparative riches, after the cash scramble in which
she had been brought up. Gervase had not succeeded in wasting above one-third of his fortune,
and would doubtless end his career before he made away with the whole. Mrs. Gervase was the
mistress of Ashpound, and most people would have valued it as what newspapers describe as a
most desirable residence, a most eligible investment. If she ever had a child--a son, though
she shuddered at the idea,--he would be the young Squire, the heir of Ashpound. In the meantime,
Gervase Norgate was not a churl: he did not dream of stinting his wife in her perquisites,
though he was not fond of her, and they now no longer lived comfortably together. She might
have out his mother's carriage every day, or she might have another built for her, and drive
it with a pair of ponies if she chose; she had a well-bred, fine-mounted, thin-legged, glossy-coated
saddle-horse kept for her sole use, and she might have a second bred and broken for her any
year she liked. She could even employ her own discretion in the income to be spent in the housekeeping.
Ready money was becoming short with him; but his sense of her rights, and his faith in her
prudence, had not failed. She had only to draw on his banker or agent to have her draught honoured.
Whatever sums she might devote to her personal pleasures, her prodigal husband would not call
in question. She might indulge in fine clothes, recherché jewellery, embellishments and ornaments
for her rooms; she might take up art or literature, or heaths, or melons, or poultry, or flannel
petticoating and soup-making for the poor (Sunday-schools and district visiting were hardly
in fashion), and pursue one, or other, or all, for occupation and amusement, without impairing
her resources; and she claimed a very respectable circle of friends as Mrs. Gervase Norgate,
though she had been friendless, and getting always more friendless, as Miss Baring. The world
had put its veto on the risk of her marriage with Gervase Norgate, in so far as its excusable
element--the reformation of Gervase Norgate--was concerned; but with commendable elasticity
it had allowed itself to be considerably influenced by the advantages which the marriage had
obtained and secured for Diana, as well as by her conduct in their possession, and had awarded
her the diploma of its esteem. A handsome, ladylike, sensible, well-disposed, sufficiently-agreeable,
though quiet young matron, almost too wise and forbearing for her years, was its verdict. It
was wonderful how well she had turned out, considering how she had been exposed; for every
one knew John Fitzwilliam Baring, and how little fitted he was for the care of a motherless
daughter. The more tender-hearted and sentimental world began to look upon Mrs. Gervase Norgate's
bad husband, whom she had married in the face of his offence, as one of her merits,--a chief
merit, to make of her a popular victim and martyr, no matter that she was not naturally constituted
for the rôle, was not frank enough for popularity, not meek enough for martyrdom.

Even Miss Tabitha, who had still a friendly feeling for the culprit, had nothing to say against
Mrs. Gervase, except that she was too good for him. Poor Miles listened wistfully for his master's
reeling step, and went out in the night air, risking his rheumatism, for which Mr. Gervase
had always cared, making sure that the old boy had a screen to his pantry, and shutters to
his garret. He watched lest his master should make his bed of the cold ground and catch a deadly
chill; caring for the besotted man, when he found him, with reverence and tenderness, as for
the chubby boy who had bidden so fair to be a good and happy man, worthy of all honour, when
Miles had first known him as his young master. Miles resented feebly the perishing of the forlorn
hope of a rescue, and muttered fatuously the cart had been put before the horse, and the reins
taken out of the whip hand, and that'd never do. What could come of the unnatural process but
a crashing spill?

Diana could not accept the solution. Nineteen women out of twenty, who had acted as she had
done, would have taken the compensations, perhaps been content with the indemnifications of
her lot; but Diana was the twentieth. Whether the cost of his mercenary marriage was far beyond
what she had estimated it, she lost heart and hope and heed of the world's opinion, and was
on the high road to loss of conscience, from the moment she was convinced that Gervase Norgate
was lost.

Diana gave up going into the society which was so willing to welcome her, which thought so
well of her. She relinquished all pride in personal dignity and propriety, as she had never
done when she had locked her doors to shut out the jingling rattle of the bones, and, occasionally,
the curses, not loud but deep, which broke in upon the repose of the long nights at Newton-le-Moor.
She ceased to exert herself to regulate the expenditure of the house, to preserve its respectability,
to wipe out the signs of its master's ruin. Old Miles might strive to keep up appearances,
but his mistress no longer aided and abetted him. It had become a matter of indifference to
Mrs. Gervase whether the dragged carpet, the wrenched-down curtain, the shattered chair, were
removed or repaired, or not: she took no notice.

By the time Ashpound was budding in spring, Mrs. Gervase Norgate had fallen away, and changed
rapidly for the worse, to the disappointment and with the condemnation of her acquaintances.
She lay in bed half the morning, dawdled over her breakfast, and trailed her way from place
to place, ageing too, with marvellous celerity.

Sunk in the mire as Gervase was, he noted the transformation in his wife with discomposure
and vexation. It fretted him always, and infuriated him at times, to discover that she was
likely to justify his contempt by proving a poor wife after all. Her rule ended, her energy
exhausted, given over to an unprincipled, destructive listlessness and, carelessness, such
a prospect did not make Gervase amend the error of his ways: but it caused his road to ruin
to be harder to tread, it caused the fruits of his vice to be more bitter between his teeth,
it drove him at times to reflect when it was madness to reflect. She would not take the luxuries
which she had bought dearly, which he wanted her to take. Her person, drawing-room, flower-garden
were fast showing neglect and cheerlessness, in spite of him, or to spite him, as he vowed
savagely. Here was his sin cropping out and meeting him in the life of another, and that other
a woman. She was going to ruin with him as truly and faithfully as if they had been a pair
of fond lovers. The shy goodwill of Gervase Norgate's early married life had waned into discontent
and dislike, and was fast settling into rooted hatred.

"Lawk!" Dolly the dairymaid reflected indignantly, "Madam is become as careless and trolloping-like
as master is wild. If we don't take care, no one will continue to call on us and hinvite us
with our equals. For that matter, the mistress has denied herself to every morning caller this
spring, and it is my opingen she never so much as sends hapologies to them dinner cards as
she twists into matches. If it were me, now, wouldn't I cut a dash of myself? She didn't care
a bit of cheese-curd for him, folks say, when she had him to begin with, so why she should
pine for his misdeeds now, is more than I can compass."

It was on a clear, fragrant evening in June, when the world was all in flower, that a whispering,
and pulling of skirts and sleeves, and throwing up of hands and eyes, arose among the servants
at Ashpound, at a sight that was seen there. The servants' hall were gathered secretly at a
side-door and a lobby-window, and were watching Mrs. Gervase Norgate feeling her way, like
a blind woman, her tall figure bent down, crouched together, swaying, along the pleached alley
from the garden.

One or two of the more sensitive of the women covered their faces and wrung their hands. Old
Miles tugged at his tufts of red hair and smote his hands together distractedly. The new shame
was too open for concealment; he could only cry, "God ha' mercy; there is not one to mend another;
what will we do?"

As living among men and women given up to delusions begets delusions in rational minds with
a dire infectiousness, so living with Gervase Norgate, and day by day regarding the evil which
could not be stayed, Diana had caught the fell disease.

A whisper of the culminating misfortunes of Ashpound spread abroad like wild-fire, soon ceased
to be a whisper, and became a loud scandal; and Diana lost her credit as summarily as she had
acquired it. It was--"That wretched Mrs. Gervase Norgate came of an evil stock, though drinking
was not Mr. Baring's vice. They were an ill-fated race, these Barings, with a curse--the curse
of ruined men--upon them. Who knew, indeed, but if poor Gervase Norgate, come of honest people
at least, had gone into another family--one which he could have respected, which could have
shown him a good example and remonstrated with him with authority--he might have been reclaimed?"

About the middle of summer there came a seasonably rainy period, such as frequently precedes
a fine harvest. But Gervase Norgate was so ailing that he could not go out and look at his
fields, where the corn in the ear was filling rarely, and the growth of second clover was knee-deep.
He was forced to keep the house. He loathed food, and his sleep had become a horror to him.
He had fits of deadly sickness and of shaking like an aspen. His only resource, all the life
that was left to him, was to be found in his cellar; and even Miles, seeing his master's extremity,
brought out and piteously pressed the brandy upon him.

