My Fellow-citizens,--We meet to celebrate Flag Day because this flag which we honor and under
which we serve is the emblem of our unity, our power, our thought and purpose as a nation.
It has no other character than that which we give it from generation to generation. The choices
are ours. It floats in majestic silence above the hosts that execute those choices, whether
in peace or in war. And yet, though silent, it speaks to us--speaks to us of the past, of the
men and women who went before us and of the records they wrote upon it. We celebrate the day
of its birth; and from its birth until now it has witnessed a great history, has floated on
high the symbol of great events, of a great plan of life worked out by a great people. We are
about to carry it into battle, to lift it where it will draw the fire of our enemies. We are
about to bid thousands, hundreds of thousands, it may be millions, of our men--the young, the
strong, the capable men of the nation--to go forth and die beneath it on fields of blood far
away--for what? For some unaccustomed thing? For something for which it has never sought the
fire before? American armies were never before sent across the seas. Why are they sent now?
For some new purpose, for which this great flag has never been carried before, or for some
old, familiar, heroic purpose for which it has seen men, its own men, die on every battlefield
upon which Americans have borne arms since the Revolution?

These are questions which must be answered. We are Americans. We in our turn serve America,
and can serve her with no private purpose. We must use her flag as she has always used it.
We are accountable at the bar of history and must plead in utter frankness what purpose it
is we seek to serve.

WHY WE ARE AT WAR

It is plain enough how we were forced into the war. The extraordinary insults and aggressions
of the Imperial German Government left us no self-respecting choice but to take up arms in
defense of our rights as a free people and of our honor as a sovereign Government. The military
masters of Germany denied us the right to be neutral. They filled our unsuspecting communities
with vicious spies and conspirators and sought to corrupt the opinion of our people in their
own behalf. When they found that they could not do that, their agents diligently spread sedition
among us and sought to draw our own citizens from their allegiance--and some of those agents
were men connected with the official embassy of the German Government itself here in our own
capital. They sought by violence to destroy our own industries and arrest our commerce. They
tried to incite Mexico to take up arms against us and to draw Japan into a hostile alliance
with her--and that, not by indirection, but by direct suggestion from the Foreign Office in
Berlin. They impudently denied us the use of the seas and repeatedly executed their threat
that they would send to their death any of our people who ventured to approach the coasts of
Europe. And many of our own people were corrupted. Men began to look upon their own neighbors
with suspicion and to wonder, in their hot resentment and surprise, whether there was any community
in which hostile intrigue did not lurk. What great nation, in such circumstances, would not
have taken up arms? Much as we had desired peace, it was denied us, and not of our own choice.
This flag under which we serve would have been dishonored had we withheld our hand.

But that is only part of the story. The whole world is at war because the whole world is in
the grip of that power and is trying out the great battle which shall determine whether it
is to be brought under its mastery or fling itself free. These peoples did not wish to be united.
They ardently desired to direct their own affairs, would be satisfied only by undisputed independence.
They could be kept quiet only by the presence or the constant threat of armed men. They would
live under a common power only by sheer compulsion and await the day of revolution. But the
German military statesmen had reckoned with all that and were ready to deal with it in their
own way. They are using men, in Germany and without, as their spokesmen whom they have hitherto
despised and oppressed, using them for their own destruction--socialists, the leaders of labor,
the thinkers they have hitherto sought to silence.

THIS IS A PEOPLES' WAR

But they will make no headway. The false betray themselves always in every accent. It is only
friends and partisans of the German Government whom we have already identified who utter these
thinly disguised disloyalties.

XI

AN APPEAL TO THE BUSINESS INTERESTS

(July 11, 1917)

My Fellow-countrymen,--The Government is about to attempt to determine the prices at which
it will ask you henceforth to furnish various supplies which are necessary for the prosecution
of the war, and various materials which will be needed in the industries by which the war must
be sustained.

We shall, of course, try to determine them justly and to the best advantage of the nation as
a whole. But justice is easier to speak of than to arrive at, and there are some considerations
which I hope we shall keep steadily in mind while this particular problem of justice is being
worked out.

I therefore take the liberty of stating very candidly my own view of the situation and of the
principles which should guide both the Government and the mine-owners and manufacturers of
the country in this difficult matter.

PATRIOTISM AND PROFITS APART

A just price must, of course, be paid for everything the Government buys. By a just price I
mean a price which will sustain the industries concerned in a high state of efficiency, provide
a living for those who conduct them, enable them to pay good wages, and make possible the expansions
of their enterprises, which will from time to time become necessary as the stupendous undertakings
of this great war develop.

We could not wisely or reasonably do less than pay such prices. They are necessary for the
maintenance and development of industry; and the maintenance and development of industry are
necessary for the great task we have in hand.

But I trust that we shall not surround the matter with a mist of sentiment. Facts are our masters
now. We ought not to put the acceptance of such prices on the ground of patriotism. Patriotism
has nothing to do with profits in a case like this. Patriotism and profits ought never in the
present circumstances to be mentioned together.

It is perfectly proper to discuss profits as a matter of business, with a view to maintaining
the integrity of capital and the efficiency of labor in these tragical months, when the liberty
of free men everywhere and of industry itself trembles in the balance, but it would be absurd
to discuss them as a motive for helping to serve and save our country.

Patriotism leaves profits out of the question. In these days of our supreme trial, when we
are sending hundreds of thousands of our young men across the seas to serve a great cause,
no true man who stays behind to work for them and sustain them by his labor will ask himself
what he is personally going to make out of that labor.

No true patriot will permit himself to take toll of their heroism in money or seek to grow
rich by the shedding of their blood. He will give as freely and with as unstinted self-sacrifice
as they. When they are giving their lives, will he not at least give his money?

I hear it insisted that more than a just price, more than a price that will sustain our industries,
must be paid; that it is necessary to pay very liberal and unusual profits in order to "stimulate
production," that nothing but pecuniary rewards will do--rewards paid in money, not in the
mere liberation of the world.

IS A BRIBE NECESSARY?

I take it for granted that those who argue thus do not stop to think what that means. Do they
mean that you must be paid, must be bribed, to make your contribution, a contribution that
costs you neither a drop of blood, nor a tear, when the whole world is in travail and men everywhere
depend upon and call to you to bring them out of bondage and make the world a fit place to
live in again amidst peace and justice?

Do they mean that you will exact a price, drive a bargain, with the men who are enduring the
agony of this war on the battlefield, in the trenches, amid the lurking dangers of the sea,
or with the bereaved women and pitiful children, before you will come forward to do your duty
and give some part of your life, in easy, peaceful fashion, for the things we are fighting
for, the things we have pledged our fortunes, our lives, our sacred honor, to vindicate and
defend--liberty and justice and fair dealing and the peace of nations?

Of course you will not. It is inconceivable. Your patriotism is of the same self-denying stuff
as the patriotism of the men dead or maimed on the fields of France, or else it is no patriotism
at all. Let us never speak, then, of profits and of patriotism in the same sentence, but face
facts and meet them. Let us do sound business, but not in the midst of a mist.

Many a grievous burden of taxation will be laid on this Nation, in this generation and in the
next, to pay for this war; let us see to it that for every dollar that is taken from the people's
pockets it shall be possible to obtain a dollar's worth of the sound stuffs they need.

HIGH FREIGHTS AID GERMANY

Let us for a moment turn to the ship-owners of the United States and the other ocean carriers
whose example they have followed, and ask them if they realize what obstacles, what almost
insuperable obstacles, they have been putting in the way of the successful prosecution of this
war by the ocean freight rates they have been exacting.

They are doing everything that high freight charges can do to make the war a failure, to make
it impossible. I do not say that they realize this or intend it.

The thing has happened naturally enough, because the commercial processes which we are content
to see operate in ordinary times have without sufficient thought been continued into a period
where they have no proper place. I am not questioning motives. I am merely stating a fact,
and stating it in order that attention may be fixed upon it.

The fact is that those who have fixed war freight rates have taken the most effective means
in their power to defeat the armies engaged against Germany. When they realize this we may,
I take it for granted, count upon them to reconsider the whole matter. It is high time. Their
extra hazards are covered by war-risk insurance.

THE LAW TO DEAL WITH OFFENDERS

I know, and you know, what response to this great challenge of duty and of opportunity the
Nation will expect of you; and I know what response you will make. Those who do not respond,
who do not respond in the spirit of those who have gone to give their lives for us on bloody
fields far away, may safely be left to be dealt with by opinion and the law--for the law must,
of course, command those things.

I am dealing with the matter thus publicly and frankly, not because I have any doubt or fear
as to the result, but only in order that, in all our thinking and in all our dealings with
one another we may move in a perfectly clear air of mutual understanding.

And there is something more that we must add to our thinking. The public is now as much part
of the Government as are the Army and Navy themselves. The whole people, in all their activities,
are now mobilized and in service for the accomplishment of the Nation's task in this war. It
is in such circumstances impossible justly to distinguish between industrial purchases made
by the Government and industries. And it is just as much our duty to sustain the industries
of the country, all the industries that contribute to its life, as it is to sustain our forces
in the field and on the sea. We must make the prices to the public the same as the prices to
the Government.

PRICES MEAN VICTORY OR DEFEAT

Prices mean the same thing everywhere now. They mean the efficiency or the inefficiency of
the Nation, whether it is the Government that pays them or not. They mean victory or defeat.
They mean that America will win her place once for all among the foremost free Nations of the
world, or that she will sink to defeat and become a second-rate Power alike in thought and
action. This is a day of her reckoning, and every man among us must personally face that reckoning
along with her.

The case needs no arguing. I assume that I am only expressing your own thoughts--what must
be in the mind of every true man when he faces the tragedy and the solemn glory of the present
war, for the emancipation of mankind. I summon you to a great duty, a great privilege, a shining
dignity and distinction.

I shall expect every man who is not a slacker to be at my side throughout this great enterprise.
In it no man can win honor who thinks of himself.

XIII

A MESSAGE TO TEACHERS AND SCHOOL OFFICERS

(September 30, 1917)

The war is bringing to the minds of our people a new appreciation of the problems of national
life and a deeper understanding of the meaning and aims of democracy. Matters which heretofore
have seemed commonplace and trivial are seen in a truer light. The urgent demand for the production
and proper distribution of food and other national resources has made us aware of the close
dependence of individual on individual and nation on nation. The effort to keep up social and
industrial organizations, in spite of the withdrawal of men for the army, has revealed the
extent to which modern life has become complex and specialized.

These and other lessons of the war must be learned quickly if we are intelligently and successfully
to defend our institutions. When the war is over we must apply the wisdom which we have acquired
in purging and ennobling the life of the world.

THE COMMON SCHOOL HAS A PART TO PLAY

In these vital tasks of acquiring a broader view of human possibilities the common school must
have large part. I urge that teachers and other school officers increase materially the time
and attention devoted to instruction bearing directly on the problems of community and national
life.

Such a plea is in no way foreign to the spirit of American public education or of existing
practices. Nor is it a plea for a temporary enlargement of the school program appropriate merely
to the period of the war. It is a plea for a realization in public education of the new emphasis
which the war has given to the ideals of democracy and to the broader conceptions of national life.

In order that there may be definite material at hand with which the schools may at once expand
their teachings, I have asked Mr. Hoover and Commissioner Claxton to organize the proper agencies
for the preparation and distribution of suitable lessons for the elementary grades and for
the high-school classes. Lessons thus suggested will serve the double purpose of illustrating
in a concrete way what can be undertaken in the schools and of stimulating teachers in all
parts of the country to formulate new and appropriate materials drawn directly from the communities
in which they live.

WOODROW WILSON.

XIV

WOMAN SUFFRAGE MUST COME NOW

(October 25, 1917)

The President received at the White House a delegation from the New York State Woman Suffrage
Party. Answering the address made by the chairman, Mrs. Norman de R. Whitehouse, the President
spoke as follows:

Mrs. Whitehouse and Ladies,--It is with great pleasure that I receive you. I esteem it a privilege
to do so. I know the difficulties which you have been laboring under in New York State, so
clearly set forth by Mrs. Whitehouse, but in my judgment those difficulties cannot be used
as an excuse by the leaders of any party or by the voters of any party for neglecting the question
which you are pressing upon them. Because, after all, the whole world now is witnessing a struggle
between two ideals of government. It is a struggle which goes deeper and touches more of the
foundations of the organized life of men than any struggle that has ever taken place before,
and no settlement of the questions that lie on the surface can satisfy a situation which requires
that the questions which lie underneath and at the foundation should also be settled and settled
right. I am free to say that I think the question of woman suffrage is one of those questions
which lie at the foundation.

The world has witnessed a slow political reconstruction, and men have generally been obliged
to be satisfied with the slowness of the process. In a sense it is wholesome that it should
be slow, because then it is solid and sure. But I believe that this war is going so to quicken
the convictions and the consciousness of mankind with regard to political questions that the
speed of reconstruction will be greatly increased. And I believe that just because we are quickened
by the questions of this war, we ought to be quickened to give this question of woman suffrage
our immediate consideration.

NOW IS THE TIME TO ACT

As one of the spokesmen of a great party, I would be doing nothing less than obeying the mandates
of that party if I gave my hearty support to the question of woman suffrage which you represent,
but I do not want to speak merely as one of the spokesmen of a party. I want to speak for myself,
and say that it seems to me that this is the time for the States of this Union to take this
action. I perhaps may be touched a little too much by the traditions of our politics, traditions
which lay such questions almost entirely upon the States, but I want to see communities declare
themselves quickened at this time and show the consequence of the quickening.

I think the whole country has appreciated the way in which the women have risen to this great
occasion. They not only have done what they have been asked to do, and done it with ardor and
efficiency, but they have shown a power to organize for doing things of their own initiative,
which is quite a different thing, and a very much more difficult thing, and I think the whole
country has admired the spirit and the capacity and the vision of the women of the United States.

It is almost absurd to say that the country depends upon the women for a large part of the
inspiration of its life. That is too obvious to say; but it is now depending upon the women
also for suggestions of service, which have been rendered in abundance and with the distinction
of originality. I, therefore, am very glad to add my voice to those which are urging the people
of the great State of New York to set a great example by voting for woman suffrage. It would
be a pleasure if I might utter that advice in their presence. Inasmuch as I am bound too close
to my duties here to make that possible, I am glad to have the privilege to ask you to convey
that message to them.

It seems to me that this is a time of privilege. All our principles, all our hearts, all our
purposes, are being searched; searched not only by our own consciences, but searched by the
world; and it is time for the people of the States of this country to show the world in what
practical sense they have learned the lessons of democracy--that they are fighting for democracy
because they believe it, and that there is no application of democracy which they do not believe
in.

