              Imperial and Royal Theatre An der Wien.
                              New Opera.
    To-day, Wednesday, 20 November, 1805, at the Imperial and Royal
         Theatre An der Wien, will be given for the first time.
                               FIDELIO;
                          Or, Conjugal Love.
    Opera in three acts, translated freely from the French text by
                         JOSEPH SONNLEITHNER.
                 The music is by LUDWIG VON BEETHOVEN.

                       Dramatis Personae.

  Don Fernando, Minister                          Herr Weinkoff.
  Don Pizarro, Governor of a State Prison         Herr Meier.
  Florestan, prisoner                             Herr Demmer.
  Leonora, his wife, under the name of Fidelio  Fräulein Milder.
  Rocco, chief jailer                             Herr Rothe.
  Marcellina, his daughter                        Fräulein Müller.
  Jaquino, turnkey                                Herr Cache.
  Captain of the Guard                            Herr Meister.
  Prisoners, Guards, People.

The action passes in a State prison in Spain, a few leagues from Seville. The piece can be
procured at the box-office for fifteen kreutzers.

During this first season the opera was performed three times and then withdrawn. Breuning reduced
it to two acts, and two or three of the musical numbers were sacrificed, and in this form it
was played twice at the Imperial Private Theatre and again withdrawn. On these occasions it
had been given under Beethoven's favorite title, "Leonore." In 1814 Treitschke revised it,
and it was produced at the Kärnthnerthor Theatre, Vienna, May 23, of that year, as "Fidelio,"
which title it has ever since retained. Its first performance in Paris was at the Théâtre Lyrique,
May 5, 1860; in London, at the King's Theatre, May 18, 1832; and in English at Covent Garden,
June 12, 1835, with Malibran in the title-rôle. Beethoven wrote four overtures for this great
work. The first was composed in 1805, the second in 1806, the third in 1807, and the fourth
in 1814. It is curious that there has always been a confusion in their numbering, and the error
remains to this day. What is called No. 1 is in reality No. 3, and was composed for a performance
of the opera at Prague, the previous overture having been too difficult for the strings. The
splendid "Leonora," No. 3, is in reality No. 2, and the No. 2 is No. 1. The fourth, or the
"Fidelio" overture, contains a new set of themes, but the "Leonora" is the grandest of them all.

The entire action of the opera transpires in a Spanish prison, of which Don Pizarro is governor
and Rocco the jailer. The porter of the prison is Jacquino, who is in love with Marcellina,
daughter of Rocco, and she in turn is in love with Fidelio, Rocco's assistant, who has assumed
male disguise the better to assist her in her plans for the rescue of her husband, Florestan,
a Spanish nobleman. The latter, who is the victim of Don Pizarro's hatred because he had thwarted
some of his evil designs, has been imprisoned by him unknown to the world, and is slowly starving
to death. Leonora, his wife, who in some way has discovered that her husband is in the prison,
has obtained employment of Rocco, disguised as the young man Fidelio.

The opera opens with a charming, playful love-scene between Jacquino and Marcellina, whom the
former is teasing to marry him. She puts him off, and as he sorrowfully departs, sings the
Hope aria, "Die Hoffnung," a fresh, smoothly flowing melody, in which she pictures the delight
of a life with Fidelio. At its close Rocco enters with the despondent Jacquino, shortly followed
by Fidelio, who is very much fatigued. The love-episode is brought out in the famous canon
quartet, "Mir ist so wunderbar," one of the most beautiful and restful numbers in the opera.
Rocco promises Marcellina's hand to Fidelio as the reward of her fidelity, but in the characteristic
and sonorous Gold song, "Hat man nicht auch Geld daneben," reminds them that money as well
as love is necessary to housekeeping. In the next scene, while Don Pizarro is giving instructions
to Rocco, a packet of letters is delivered to him, one of which informs him that Don Fernando
is coming the next day to inspect the prison, as he has been informed that it contains several
victims of arbitrary power. He at once determines that Florestan shall die, and gives vent
to his wrath in a furious dramatic aria ("Ha! welch ein Augenblick!"). He attempts to bribe
Rocco to aid him. The jailer at first refuses, but subsequently, after a stormy duet, consents
to dig the grave. Fidelio has overheard the scheme, and, as they disappear, rushes forward
and sings the great aria, "Abscheulicher!" one of the grandest and most impassioned illustrations
of dramatic intensity in the whole realm of music. The recitative expresses intense horror
at the intended murder, then subsides into piteous sorrow, and at last breaks out into the
glorious adagio, "Komm Hoffnung," in which she sings of the immortal power of love. The last
scene of the act introduces the strong chorus of the prisoners as they come out in the yard
for air and sunlight, after which Rocco relates to Fidelio his interview with Don Pizarro.
The latter orders the jailer to return the prisoners to their dungeons and go on with the digging
of the grave, and the act closes.

The second act opens in Florestan's dungeon. The prisoner sings an intensely mournful aria
("In des Lebens Frühlingstagen"), which has a rapturous finale ("Und spür' Ich nicht linde"),
as he sees his wife in a vision. Rocco and Fidelio enter and begin digging the grave, to the
accompaniment of sepulchral music. She discovers that Florestan has sunk back exhausted, and
as she restores him recognizes her husband. Don Pizarro enters, and after ordering Fidelio
away, who meanwhile conceals herself, attempts to stab Florestan. Fidelio, who has been closely
watching him, springs forward with a shriek, and interposes herself between him and her husband.
He once more advances to carry out his purpose, when Fidelio draws a pistol and defies him.
As she does so, the sound of a trumpet is heard outside announcing the arrival of Don Fernando.
Don Pizarro rushes out in despair, and Florestan and Leonora, no longer Fidelio, join in a
duet ("O Namenlose Freude") which is the very ecstasy of happiness. In the last scene Don Fernando
sets the prisoners free in the name of the king, and among them Florestan. Pizarro is revealed
in his true character, and is led away to punishment. The happy pair are reunited, and Marcellina,
to Jacquino's delight, consents to marry him. The act closes with a general song of jubilee.
As a drama and as an opera "Fidelio" stands almost alone in its perfect purity, in the moral
grandeur of its subject, and in the resplendent ideality of its music.

BELLINI.

