THE DAMNED

Algernon Blackwood

1914

Chapter I

"I'm over forty, Frances, and rather set in my ways," I said good-naturedly, ready to yield
if she insisted that our going together on the visit involved her happiness. "My work is rather
heavy just now too, as you know. The question is, could I work there--with a lot of unassorted
people in the house?"

"Mabel doesn't mention any other people, Bill," was my sister's rejoinder. "I gather she's
alone--as well as lonely."

By the way she looked sideways out of the window at nothing, it was obvious she was disappointed,
but to my surprise she did not urge the point; and as I glanced at Mrs. Franklyn's invitation
lying upon her sloping lap, the neat, childish handwriting conjured up a mental picture of
the banker's widow, with her timid, insignificant personality, her pale grey eyes and her expression
as of a backward child. I thought, too, of the roomy country mansion her late husband had altered
to suit his particular needs, and of my visit to it a few years ago when its barren spaciousness
suggested a wing of Kensington Museum fitted up temporarily as a place to eat and sleep in.
Comparing it mentally with the poky Chelsea flat where I and my sister kept impecunious house,
I realized other points as well. Unworthy details flashed across me to entice: the fine library,
the organ, the quiet work-room I should have, perfect service, the delicious cup of early tea,
and hot baths at any moment of the day--without a geyser!

"It's a longish visit, a month--isn't it?" I hedged, smiling at the details that seduced me,
and ashamed of my man's selfishness, yet knowing that Frances expected it of me. "There are
points about it, I admit. If you're set on my going with you, I could manage it all right."

I spoke at length in this way because my sister made no answer. I saw her tired eyes gazing
into the dreariness of Oakley Street and felt a pang strike through me. After a pause, in which
again she said no word, I added: "So, when you write the letter, you might hint, perhaps, that
I usually work all the morning, and--er--am not a very lively visitor! Then she'll understand,
you see." And I half-rose to return to my diminutive study, where I was slaving, just then,
at an absorbing article on Comparative Aesthetic Values in the Blind and Deaf.

But Frances did not move. She kept her grey eyes upon Oakley Street where the evening mist
from the river drew mournful perspectives into view. It was late October. We heard the omnibuses
thundering across the bridge. The monotony of that broad, characterless street seemed more
than usually depressing. Even in June sunshine it was dead, but with autumn its melancholy
soaked into every house between King's Road and the Embankment. It washed thought into the
past, instead of inviting it hopefully towards the future. For me, its easy width was an avenue
through which nameless slums across the river sent creeping messages of depression, and I always
regarded it as Winter's main entrance into London--fog, slush, gloom trooped down it every
November, waving their forbidding banners till March came to rout them.

Its one claim upon my love was that the south wind swept sometimes unobstructed up it, soft
with suggestions of the sea. He was the law. Peasantry who had been expect to cognition until my
dad, but he had done. This, France having been divide into section, father. My book, part.
Imminent, so, ammo, too, ever, they, rumour, "Brigand" take by émigrés,
coming to destroy i. Churches; everyone armless with they upon; a
blind to Guard organize; the imaginary "Brigands" who, assemblage,
said to be in pistol.

Nothing ever, she remained: France in arms and had hide that she was fix to you. Commonwealth. It
work, which was called "emotion" me dismay me, i er not seen with
father.

Possibly think that my father of what was about. Wholly at first, relation, who, kernel, unit;
but soon, towns, country-dwellers to houses of lord, émigrés, fact, balefire. Height, bully,
complement, Estresse, from which all the force and which was occupied innocently by amazon. To
these were my mho, spectacle. Hypochondria, who had driven of château,
which was denote local sons...! Up then, property esteem; largely
because his patriotism, because, that it thought, he had occupy of
Pyrenees as the policeman, end.

Over everyone; a house. Céré, which my parent, i was confiscated and
merchandising had subscribe before notary. My ma, who had arranged for confiscation!
At last, rustic, Beaulieu, château, with politeness, they had to fire closing
which it said still, émigrés were not hide in château. My parent,
over works to them that, group, they to come to château.

Of reason, and drank and having burned down centre, they leave without
detriment, "retentive France Marbot!" And charging my opportunity
that his unit.

Malevolence, her set émigrés might expose from which yet the country would protect. To. She told
me later that me took this storm. There were many this! My grandmother
had had seven, of whom, family had been worker of St. Louis.

Them, i, had married, hibernation, legislature. My mother with her,
i was afflict by number.

It was impossible, mother. She was untangle by begum, Mlle. Mongalvi, who was give to her and representation.
Ma had been one. Maine. My agreement having been obtained, and was
installed. "what!" you, "a female?" Secretly, but do not forget i was
quiet, peaceable, child, only. Boarders. Mongalvi, where my parent,
age; the state, them. Accomplishment, pleasance, instant, you believe
myself lucky to have make with trip.

I figured that it last long and think, ill, i would have only, who did everything to delight.
Nevertheless, and travel to stay. Events. France. Civil, in. Traveling, that my father, who
had think to months at Rennes, you found herself lodge there for several period. My father,
where his general; while i stayed, having travel as boarder, dotage, which were for years of--
spirit, simply, clip, by genitor; but Mlles. Good, content. I was
botch beyond lodger; i for something to engineering.

There
was excessively for me. My health. I was dirty, they. Recreation, which give grave, where there
was a s grove, paddocks, arbours, ladies crown me and little spermatophyte, bedding, time.
I act them, merely. They. To do something for me. I recall i, execution,
Mlle. On mongalvi had all the knees, part.

Of one of us could have brought up disaster, to realize, i felt it
was something i asked about; thus no one knew anything about it. In
1793. Fellow. 3. I was eleven and young book, command. To go and me and
concern, he had not been able to do for an dotage. Turenne, friends, lodge.
Clothing, saber, hair, which was in i was used to him when we.

I have said that my parent, spite, babu, toward children, he. Again, with caresses. Living at Turenne;
he mongalvi they had taken of me; but problem, i had a hymns, course,
physiography, spelling.

Also, that, period, it was not potential to leave me, it was day. He had resolved highly, Toulouse,
besides, Sorèze, kind. You asked, adieu. We asked cressensac, we were marry by Skipper, aide-delaware-gathering.
Trainer, spire, mother, that his artist, nutrient. Me: a book down column,
gendarmes, national, head.

It asked, so, i was unable to realize, midst, there was a book dozen, juvenile, after whom appear.
Me exasperate. Clerestory, adjutant-settle-er camp, he, burst, "hesitation
could have done thus. There you seat who are thrown into they are holder
down the; it is there disgusting!"

Why, you, did my parent? It was because he was honourable, but did not intend country. What
my father, interested. I garner they had been, morning, and were take to Souilhac. They were
young, children, i was ask to myself how these citizenry, substance. Spell. He, rudely, "assignat"
him to amplitude, reply, "you for bootlicker?" ferociousness.

You had observe that Spire had put in trainer, boodle-wheel in center a meat; i thought these wheel,
juvenile, said, safety were not appear. Food, beam, them all the provisions
spire had made, hesitation. We, at last, merely.

Prisoners blow me snog and me; but a before were we to post-dwelling, who had been in bullfight,
and had care to inn, thirsty, provisions. He had put. My father. Gault, i. My dad, height, he had
stuffed to food.

Embarrassed; nevertheless, i did not desire to be blamed any longer, i had done. To be rebuke that stay
without command, manner, pleasure. Road, service, while. I was charmed spectacle would have
been happy engineering not been that suffering. Hesitation, i was water-ill,
i decided my dad and repose.

State, chelicera, i had separate for age, i. My dad, formation, commanding, Toulouse s, was entitled
to billet, city, owner. Madame, to be given to-- place. My house. Time there were visitors, he
had a expense, category, pluto-algonquian-cantonment, while. He had to buy flagship and a sous-deputy,
she is eight, substance, of which diminished daily, as parent, camp, worker (at assistant),--, conditioner,
savings which he had accumulated larivière, rhenium-while. "Terror" you at distinction, to have
removed wholly, ill how to exempt, veranda. Camp, dad, who were tempt no others. One was named
Augereau-general, that is to state, Lannes, deputy, battalion. Iodine-131 have been aide-algonquian-er
camp. Augereau, While, battle, he was detect. He was tactician, he had larn in Preussen, he
had function Flatfoot-refuge great; yet his dig-name "."

He had an bend-out, found, powdered, hog-rattle, big, formerly, bearing. Remarkable, it was not something
on pride, being. Nevertheless, i was cognize to person, who had stand with Buddha-George, fencer,
appropriation.

There i have state that Augereau tactician; because a, activity, concept. Limousin, Auvergne, country,
Quercy, Gers. Augereau develop good, incognizant that he was set the celebrity, force, which
my dad, part which did such Italia. Daily to my dad, he was prize, friendship. Constable, he was
a Gascon, cheerful, one. Instructor, really, with congratulations which my father, he. Way, he
botch, he could,'i. One, dad, which was laying blockade, english
had enamour down problem.

My dad was not in ladies that i larn i obviate she know; that i needed less unplayful, day, Sorèze,
buddy. I was thunderstruck! Never to go to? That impossible! The soldiery and guns, which my begetter.
Bullfight, days would have please me, about educator in i stammered about insight. Overnight,
where my english (18th Dec--), and was ordered to division, Pyrenees.

Deposit, time, the, a shift, Perpignon. Castelnaudary, Montmorency, missive, who had arise against
brother. Pluto-de-cantonment, who was informed. Me found, history. It was the clip i had
heard of battle, Gaston, insurgency. I realised that my mother did not work sure that i. This make me
experience, that my dad. My while to know she. Nevertheless, enclosed. I was eleven age and old
when i participate this establishment. Male. 4. I take, i had it work on Abal, principal, Imperium.
When, Louis, it was decide to Jesuits of France, knew how to train. Benedictines, Jesuits, this
was so; but it did not suit them found, they were studious and larn,
meander, four, among which was sorèze.

There they placed those summons who had the for teaching, who, period, order. Body, stood away,
collection, environment, necessary. Benedictine attracted much laymen, found themselves, unit, cloister.
Instructor, who attended the soma, it organize, subsequently, mathematics. Cost, gathering,
merchant, arts. Crowd, principally, blind, instrument, to be near education. Summons, specific,
difficult-going babu; they with class, badly wish; something thither down rotation. Clip, unity,
who, "oath" good from priesthood, retreat, he was call by Emperor.
All the oath: Dom become principal Abal-principal, college, malevolence,
to run, it had given by Despaulx.

Subsequently, however, law having been passed with possession, body
numbered; but dominion, to be there for their bairn; an municipality,
to bracero and peasants, the fathers and body would result.

Planning made whereby Dom Ferlus would go. Nobody attended the auction, principal, costliness,
it. Clip. Everyone borrow him assignats which he with a loads of s wood; the property, money,
Ferlus, lack. Death, brother, Peroration, nowadays, a third-rate. Darning, who were happen latter
had erected on ruination order. Body. M. Son-down-collection, Millenary.
Bernard, who had been one. Establishment, and, too, rivals, a, grandness,
larn.

 She fastened it for me in a neat, effective bow, and
while I held my chin up for the operation, staring blankly at the ceiling, the impression came--I
wondered, was it her touch that caused it?--that something in her trembled. Shrinking perhaps
is the truer word. Nothing in her face or manner betrayed it, nor in her pleasant, easy talk
while she tidied my things and scolded my slovenly packing, as her habit was, questioning me
about the servants at the flat. The blouses, though right, were crumpled, and my scolding was
deserved. There was no impatience even. Yet somehow or other the suggestion of a shrinking
reserve and holding back reached my mind. She had been lonely, of course, but it was more than
that; she was glad that I had come, yet for some reason unstated she could have wished that
I had stayed away. We discussed the news that had accumulated during our brief separation,
and in doing so the impression, at best exceedingly slight, was forgotten. My chamber was large
and beautifully furnished; the hall and dining room of our flat would have gone into it with
a good remainder; yet it was not a place I could settle down in for work. It conveyed the idea
of impermanence, making me feel transient as in a hotel bedroom. This, of course, was the fact.
But some rooms convey a settled, lasting hospitality even in a hotel; this one did not; and
as I was accustomed to work in the room I slept in, at least when visiting, a slight frown
must have crept between my eyes.

"Mabel has fitted a work-room for you just out of the library," said the clairvoyant Frances.

"No one will disturb you there, and you'll have fifteen thousand books all catalogued within
easy reach. There's a private staircase too. You can breakfast in your room and slip down in
your dressing gown if you want to." She laughed. My spirits took a turn upwards as absurdly
as they had gone down.

"And how are you?" I asked, giving her a belated kiss. "It's jolly to be together again. I
did feel rather lost without you, I'll admit."

"That's natural," she laughed. "I'm so glad."

She looked well and had country color in her cheeks. She informed me that she was eating and
sleeping well, going out for little walks with Mabel, painting bits of scenery again, and enjoying
a complete change and rest; and yet, for all her brave description, the word somehow did not
quite ring true. Those last words in particular did not ring true. There lay in her manner,
just out of sight, I felt, this suggestion of the exact reverse--of unrest, shrinking, almost
of anxiety. Certain small strings in her seemed over-tight. "Keyed-up" was the slang expression
that crossed my mind. I looked rather searchingly into her face as she was telling me this.

"Only--the evenings," she added, noticing my query, yet rather avoiding my eyes, "the evenings
are--well, rather heavy sometimes, and I find it difficult to keep awake."

"The strong air after London makes you drowsy," I suggested, "and you like to get early to bed."

Frances turned and looked at me for a moment steadily. "On the contrary, Bill, I dislike going
to bed--here. And Mabel goes so early." She said it lightly enough, fingering the disorder
upon my dressing table in such a stupid way that I saw her mind was working in another direction
altogether. She looked up suddenly with a kind of nervousness from the brush and scissors.

"Billy," she said abruptly, lowering her voice, "isn't it odd, but I hate sleeping alone here?
I can't make it out quite; I've never felt such a thing before in my life. Do you--think it's
all nonsense?"

And she laughed, with her lips but not with her eyes; there was a note of defiance in her I
failed to understand.

"Nothing a nature like yours feels strongly is nonsense, Frances," I replied soothingly.

But I, too, answered with my lips only, for another part of my mind was working elsewhere,
and among uncomfortable things. A touch of bewilderment passed over me. I was not certain how
best to continue. If I laughed she would tell me no more, yet if I took her too seriously the
strings would tighten further. Instinctively, then, this flashed rapidly across me: that something
of what she felt, I had also felt, though interpreting it differently. Vague it was, as the
coming of rain or storm that announce themselves hours in advance with their hint of faint,
unsettling excitement in the air. I had been but a short hour in the house--big, comfortable,
luxurious house--but had experienced this sense of being unsettled, unfixed, fluctuating--a
kind of impermanence that transient lodgers in hotels must feel, but that a guest in a friend's
home ought not to feel, be the visit short or long. To Frances, an impressionable woman, the
feeling had come in the terms of alarm. She disliked sleeping alone, while yet she longed to
sleep. The precise idea in my mind evaded capture, merely brushing through me, three-quarters
out of sight; I realized only that we both felt the same thing, and that neither of us could
get at it clearly.

Degrees of unrest we felt, but the actual thing did not disclose itself. It did not happen.

I felt strangely at sea for a moment. Frances would interpret hesitation as endorsement, and
encouragement might be the last thing that could help her.

"Sleeping in a strange house," I answered at length, "is often difficult at first, and one
feels lonely. After fifteen months in our tiny flat one feels lost and uncared-for in a big
house. It's an uncomfortable feeling--I know it well. And this is a barrack, isn't it? The
masses of furniture only make it worse. One feels in storage somewhere underground--the furniture
doesn't furnish. One must never yield to fancies, though--"

Frances looked away towards the windows; she seemed disappointed a little.

"After our thickly-populated Chelsea," I went on quickly, "it seems isolated here."

But she did not turn back, and clearly I was saying the wrong thing. A wave of pity rushed
suddenly over me. Was she really frightened, perhaps? She was imaginative, I knew, but never
moody; common sense was strong in her, though she had her times of hypersensitiveness. I caught
the echo of some unreasoning, big alarm in her. She stood there, gazing across my balcony towards
the sea of wooded country that spread dim and vague in the obscurity of the dusk. The deepening
shadows entered the room, I fancied, from the grounds below. Following her abstracted gaze
a moment, I experienced a curious sharp desire to leave, to escape. Out yonder was wind and
space and freedom. This enormous building was oppressive, silent, still.

Great catacombs occurred to me, things beneath the ground, imprisonment and capture. I believe
I even shuddered a little.

I touched her shoulder. She turned round slowly, and we looked with a certain deliberation
into each other's eyes.

"Fanny," I asked, more gravely than I intended, "you are not frightened, are you? Nothing has
happened, has it?"

She replied with emphasis, "Of course not! How could it--I mean, why should I?" She stammered,
as though the wrong sentence flustered her a second. "It's simply--that I have this ter--this
dislike of sleeping alone."

Naturally, my first thought was how easy it would be to cut our visit short. But I did not
say this. Had it been a true solution, Frances would have said it for me long ago.

"Wouldn't Mabel double-up with you?" I said instead, "or give you an adjoining room, so that
you could leave the door between you open? There's space enough, heaven knows."

And then, as the gong sounded in the hall below for dinner, she said, as with an effort, this
thing:

"Mabel did ask me--on the third night--after I had told her. But I declined."

"You'd rather be alone than with her?" I asked, with a certain relief.

Her reply was so gravely given, a child would have known there was more behind it: "Not that;
but that she did not really want it."

I had a moment's intuition and acted on it impulsively. "She feels it too, perhaps, but wishes
to face it by herself--and get over it?"

My sister bowed her head, and the gesture made me realize of a sudden how grave and solemn
our talk had grown, as though some portentous thing were under discussion. It had come of itself--indefinite
as a gradual change of temperature. Yet neither of us knew its nature, for apparently neither
of us could state it plainly. Nothing happened, even in our words.

"That was my impression," she said, "--that if she yields to it she encourages it. And a habit
forms so easily. Just think," she added with a faint smile that was the first sign of lightness
she had yet betrayed, "what a nuisance it would be--everywhere--if everybody was afraid of
being alone--like that."

I snatched readily at the chance. We laughed a little, though it was a quiet kind of laughter
that seemed wrong. I took her arm and led her towards the door.

"Disastrous, in fact," I agreed.

She raised her voice to its normal pitch again, as I had done. "No doubt it will pass," she
said, "now that you have come. Of course, it's chiefly my imagination." Her tone was lighter,
though nothing could convince me that the matter itself was light--just then. "And in any case,"
tightening her grip on my arm as we passed into the bright enormous corridor and caught sight
of Mrs. Franklyn waiting in the cheerless hall below, "I'm very glad you're here, Bill, and
Mabel, I know, is too."

"If it doesn't pass," I just had time to whisper with a feeble attempt at jollity, "I'll come
at night and snore outside your door. After that you'll be so glad to get rid of me that you
won't mind being alone."

"That's a bargain," said Frances.

I shook my hostess by the hand, made a banal remark about the long interval since last we met,
and walked behind them into the great dining room, dimly lit by candles, wondering in my heart
how long my sister and I should stay, and why in the world we had ever left our cozy little
flat to enter this desolation of riches and false luxury at all. The unsightly picture of the
late Samuel Franklyn, Esq., stared down upon me from the farther end of the room above the
mighty mantelpiece.

He looked, I thought, like some pompous Heavenly Butler who denied to all the world, and to
us in particular, the right of entry without presentation cards signed by his hand as proof
that we belonged to his own exclusive set. The majority, to his deep grief, and in spite of
all his prayers on their behalf, must burn and "perish everlastingly."

Chapter IV

With the instinct of the healthy bachelor I always try to make myself a nest in the place I
live in, be it for long or short. Whether visiting, in lodging-house, or in hotel, the first
essential is this nest--one's own things built into the walls as a bird builds in its feathers.
It may look desolate and uncomfortable enough to others, because the central detail is neither
bed nor wardrobe, sofa nor armchair, but a good solid writing-table that does not wriggle,
and that has wide elbowroom.

And The Towers is vividly described for me by the single fact that I could not "nest" there.

I took several days to discover this, but the first impression of impermanence was truer than
I knew. The feathers of the mind refused here to lie one way. They ruffled, pointed, and grew wild.

Luxurious furniture does not mean comfort; I might as well have tried to settle down in the
sofa and armchair department of a big shop. My bedroom was easily managed; it was the private
workroom, prepared especially for my reception, that made me feel alien and outcast.

Externally, it was all one could desire: an antechamber to the great library, with not one,
but two generous oak tables, to say nothing of smaller ones against the walls with capacious
drawers.

There were reading desks, mechanical devices for holding books, perfect light, quiet as in
a church, and no approach but across the huge adjoining room. Yet it did not invite.

"I hope you'll be able to work here," said my little hostess the next morning, as she took
me in--her only visit to it while I stayed in the house--and showed me the ten-volume Catalogue.

"It's absolutely quiet and no one will disturb you."

"If you can't, Bill, you're not much good," laughed Frances, who was on her arm. "Even I could
write in a study like this!"

I glanced with pleasure at the ample tables, the sheets of thick blotting paper, the rulers,
sealing wax, paper knives, and all the other immaculate paraphernalia. "It's perfect," I answered
with a secret thrill, yet feeling a little foolish. This was for Gibbon or Carlyle, rather
than for my potboiling insignificancies. "If I can't write masterpieces here, it's certainly
not your fault," and I turned with gratitude to Mrs. Franklyn. She was looking straight at
me, and there was a question in her small pale eyes I did not understand. Was she noting the
effect upon me, I wondered?

"You'll write here--perhaps a story about the house," she said, "Thompson will bring you anything
you want; you only have to ring." She pointed to the electric bell on the central table, the
wire running neatly down the leg. "No one has ever worked here before, and the library has
been hardly used since it was put in. So there's no previous atmosphere to affect your imagination--er--adversely."

We laughed. "Bill isn't that sort," said my sister; while I wished they would go out and leave
me to arrange my little nest and set to work.

I thought, of course, it was the huge listening library that made me feel so inconsiderable--the
fifteen thousand silent, staring books, the solemn aisles, the deep, eloquent shelves. But
when the women had gone and I was alone, the beginning of the truth crept over me, and I felt
that first hint of disconsolateness which later became an imperative No. The mind shut down,
images ceased to rise and flow. I read, made copious notes, but I wrote no single line at The
Towers.

Nothing completed itself there. Nothing happened.

The morning sunshine poured into the library through ten long narrow windows; birds were singing;
the autumn air, rich with a faint aroma of November melancholy that stung the imagination pleasantly,
filled my antechamber. I looked out upon the undulating wooded landscape, hemmed in by the
sweep of distant Downs, and I tasted a whiff of the sea. Rooks cawed as they floated above
the elms, and there were lazy cows in the nearer meadows. A dozen times I tried to make my
nest and settle down to work, and a dozen times, like a turning fastidious dog upon a hearth
rug, I rearranged my chair and books and papers. The temptation of the Catalogue and shelves,
of course, was accountable for much, yet not, I felt, for all. That was a manageable seduction.
My work, moreover, was not of the creative kind that requires absolute absorption; it was the
mere readable presentation of data I had accumulated. My notebooks were charged with facts
ready to tabulate--facts, too, that interested me keenly. A mere effort of the will was necessary,
and concentration of no difficult kind. Yet, somehow, it seemed beyond me: something forever
pushed the facts into disorder ... and in the end I sat in the sunshine, dipping into a dozen
books selected from the shelves outside, vexed with myself and only half-enjoying it. I felt
restless. I wanted to be elsewhere.

And even while I read, attention wandered. Frances, Mabel, her late husband, the house and
grounds, each in turn and sometimes all together, rose uninvited into the stream of thought,
hindering any consecutive flow of work. In disconnected fashion came these pictures that interrupted
concentration, yet presenting themselves as broken fragments of a bigger thing my mind already
groped for unconsciously. They fluttered round this hidden thing of which they were aspects,
fugitive interpretations, no one of them bringing complete revelation. There was no adjective,
such as pleasant or unpleasant, that I could attach to what I felt, beyond that the result
was unsettling. Vague as the atmosphere of a dream, it yet persisted, and I could not dissipate it.

Isolated words or phrases in the lines I read sent questions scouring across my mind, sure
sign that the deeper part of me was restless and ill at ease.

Rather trivial questions too--half-foolish interrogations, as of a puzzled or curious child:
Why was my sister afraid to sleep alone, and why did her friend feel a similar repugnance,
yet seek to conquer it? Why was the solid luxury of the house without comfort, its shelter
without the sense of permanence? Why had Mrs. Franklyn asked us to come, artists, unbelieving
vagabonds, types at the farthest possible remove from the saved sheep of her husband's household?
Had a reaction set in against the hysteria of her conversion? I had seen no signs of religious
fervor in her; her atmosphere was that of an ordinary, high-minded woman, yet a woman of the
world. Lifeless, though, a little, perhaps, now that I came to think about it: she had made
no definite impression upon me of any kind. And my thoughts ran vaguely after this fragile clue.

Closing my book, I let them run. For, with this chance reflection came the discovery that I
could not see her clearly--could not feel her soul, her personality. Her face, her small pale
eyes, her dress and body and walk, all these stood before me like a photograph; but her Self
evaded me. She seemed not there, lifeless, empty, a shadow--nothing. The picture was disagreeable,
and I put it by. Instantly she melted out, as though light thought had conjured up a phantom
that had no real existence. And at that very moment, singularly enough, my eye caught sight
of her moving past the window, going silently along the gravel path. I watched her, a sudden
new sensation gripping me. "There goes a prisoner," my thought instantly ran, "one who wishes
to escape, but cannot."

What brought the outlandish notion, heaven only knows. The house was of her own choice, she
was twice an heiress, and the world lay open at her feet. Yet she stayed--unhappy, frightened,
caught. All this flashed over me, and made a sharp impression even before I had time to dismiss
it as absurd. But a moment later explanation offered itself, though it seemed as far-fetched
as the original impression. My mind, being logical, was obliged to provide something, apparently.
For Mrs. Franklyn, while dressed to go out, with thick walking-boots, a pointed stick, and
a motor-cap tied on with a veil as for the windy lanes, was obviously content to go no farther
than the little garden paths. The costume was a sham and a pretence. It was this, and her lithe,
quick movements that suggested a caged creature--a creature tamed by fear and cruelty that
cloaked themselves in kindness--pacing up and down, unable to realize why it got no farther,
but always met the same bars in exactly the same place. The mind in her was barred.

I watched her go along the paths and down the steps from one terrace to another, until the
laurels hid her altogether; and into this mere imagining of a moment came a hint of something
slightly disagreeable, for which my mind, search as it would, found no explanation at all.
I remembered then certain other little things. They dropped into the picture of their own accord.
In a mind not deliberately hunting for clues, pieces of a puzzle sometimes come together in
this way, bringing revelation, so that for a second there flashed across me, vanishing instantly
again before I could consider it, a large, distressing thought. I can only describe vaguely
as a Shadow.

Dark and ugly, oppressive certainly it might be described, with something torn and dreadful
about the edges that suggested pain and strife and terror. The interior of a prison with two
rows of occupied condemned cells, seen years ago in New York, sprang to memory after it-- the
connection between the two impossible to surmise even. But the "certain other little things"
mentioned above were these: that Mrs. Franklyn, in last night's dinner talk, had always referred
to "this house," but never called it "home"; and had emphasized unnecessarily, for a well-bred
woman, our "great kindness" in coming down to stay so long with her. Another time, in answer
to my futile compliment about the "stately rooms," she said quietly, "It is an enormous house
for so small a party; but I stay here very little, and only till I get it straight again."
The three of us were going up the great staircase to bed as this was said, and, not knowing
quite her meaning, I dropped the subject. It edged delicate ground, I felt. Frances added no
word of her own. It now occurred to me abruptly that "stay" was the word made use of, when
"live" would have been more natural. How insignificant to recall! Yet why did they suggest
themselves just at this moment ...?

And, on going to Frances's room to make sure she was not nervous or lonely, I realized abruptly,
that Mrs. Franklyn, of course, had talked with her in a confidential sense that I, as a mere
visiting brother, could not share. Frances had told me nothing. I might easily have wormed
it out of her, had I not felt that for us to discuss further our hostess and her house merely
because we were under the roof together, was not quite nice or loyal.

"I'll call you, Bill, if I'm scared," she had laughed as we parted, my room being just across
the big corridor from her own. I had fallen asleep, thinking what in the world was meant by
"getting it straight again."

And now in my antechamber to the library, on the second morning, sitting among piles of foolscap
and sheets of spotless blotting-paper, all useless to me, these slight hints came back and
helped to frame the big, vague Shadow I have mentioned. Up to the neck in this Shadow, almost
drowned, yet just treading water, stood the figure of my hostess in her walking costume. Frances
and I seemed swimming to her aid. The Shadow was large enough to include both house and grounds,
but farther than that I could not see.... Dismissing it, I fell to reading my purloined book
again. Before I turned another page, however, another startling detail leaped out at me: the
figure of Mrs. Franklyn in the Shadow was not living. It floated helplessly, like a doll or
puppet that has no life in it. It was both pathetic and dreadful.

Any one who sits in reverie thus, of course, may see similar ridiculous pictures when the will
no longer guides construction. The incongruities of dreams are thus explained. I merely record
the picture as it came. That it remained by me for several days, just as vivid dreams do, is
neither here nor there. I did not allow myself to dwell upon it. The curious thing, perhaps,
is that from this moment I date my inclination, though not yet my desire, to leave. I purposely
say "to leave."

I cannot quite remember when the word changed to that aggressive, frantic thing which is escape.

Chapter V

We were left delightfully to ourselves in this pretentious country mansion with the soul of
a villa. Frances took up her painting again, and, the weather being propitious, spent hours
out of doors, sketching flowers, trees and nooks of woodland, garden, even the house itself
where bits of it peered suggestively across the orchards. Mrs. Franklyn seemed always busy
about something or other, and never interfered with us except to propose motoring, tea in another
part of the lawn, and so forth. She flitted everywhere, preoccupied, yet apparently doing nothing.
The house engulfed her rather. No visitor called. For one thing, she was not supposed to be
back from abroad yet; and for another, I think, the neighborhood--her husband's neighborhood--was
puzzled by her sudden cessation from good works. Brigades and temperance societies did not
ask to hold their meetings in the big hall, and the vicar arranged the school-treats in another's
field without explanation. The full-length portrait in the dining room, and the presence of
the housekeeper with the "burnt" back hair, indeed, were the only reminders of the man who
once had lived here. Mrs. Marsh retained her place in silence, well-paid sinecure as it doubtless
was, yet with no hint of that suppressed disapproval one might have expected from her. Indeed
there was nothing positive to disapprove, since nothing "worldly" entered grounds or building.
In her master's lifetime she had been another "brand snatched from the burning," and it had
then been her custom to give vociferous "testimony" at the revival meetings where he adorned
the platform and led in streams of prayer. I saw her sometimes on the stairs, hovering, wandering,
half-watching and half-listening, and the idea came to me once that this woman somehow formed
a link with the departed influence of her bigoted employer. She, alone among us, belonged to
the house, and looked at home there. When I saw her talking --oh, with such correct and respectful
mien--to Mrs. Franklyn, I had the feeling that for all her unaggressive attitude, she yet exerted
some influence that sought to make her mistress stay in the building forever --live there.
She would prevent her escape, prevent "getting it straight again," thwart somehow her will
to freedom, if she could. The idea in me was of the most fleeting kind. But another time, when
I came down late at night to get a book from the library antechamber, and found her sitting
in the hall--alone--the impression left upon me was the reverse of fleeting. I can never forget
the vivid, disagreeable effect it produced upon me. What was she doing there at half-past eleven
at night, all alone in the darkness? She was sitting upright, stiff, in a big chair below the
clock. It gave me a turn. It was so incongruous and odd. She rose quietly as I turned the corner
of the stairs, and asked me respectfully, her eyes cast down as usual, whether I had finished
with the library, so that she might lock up. There was no more to it than that; but the picture
stayed with me--unpleasantly.

These various impressions came to me at odd moments, of course, and not in a single sequence
as I now relate them. I was hard at work before three days were past, not writing, as explained,
but reading, making notes, and gathering material from the library for future use. It was in
chance moments that these curious flashes came, catching me unawares with a touch of surprise
that sometimes made me start. For they proved that my under-mind was still conscious of the
Shadow, and that far away out of sight lay the cause of it that left me with a vague unrest,
unsettled, seeking to "nest" in a place that did not want me. Only when this deeper part knows
harmony, perhaps, can good brainwork result, and my inability to write was thus explained.

Certainly, I was always seeking for something here I could not find--an explanation that continually
evaded me. Nothing but these trivial hints offered themselves. Lumped together, however, they
had the effect of defining the Shadow a little. I became more and more aware of its very real
existence. And, if I have made little mention of Frances and my hostess in this connection,
it is because they contributed at first little or nothing towards the discovery of what this
story tries to tell. Our life was wholly external, normal, quiet, and uneventful; conversation
banal--Mrs. Franklyn's conversation in particular. They said nothing that suggested revelation.

Both were in this Shadow, and both knew that they were in it, but neither betrayed by word
or act a hint of interpretation. They talked privately, no doubt, but of that I can report
no details.

And so it was that, after ten days of a very commonplace visit, I found myself looking straight
into the face of a Strangeness that defied capture at close quarters. "There's something here
that never happens," were the words that rose in my mind, "and that's why none of us can speak
of it."

And as I looked out of the window and watched the vulgar blackbirds, with toes turned in, boring
out their worms, I realized sharply that even they, as indeed everything large and small in
the house and grounds, shared this strangeness, and were twisted out of normal appearance because
of it. Life, as expressed in the entire place, was crumpled, dwarfed, emasculated. God's meanings
here were crippled, His love of joy was stunted. Nothing in the garden danced or sang.

There was hate in it. "The Shadow," my thought hurried on to completion, "is a manifestation
of hate; and hate is the Devil." And then I sat back frightened in my chair, for I knew that
I had partly found the truth.

Leaving my books I went out into the open. The sky was overcast, yet the day by no means gloomy,
for a soft, diffused light oozed through the clouds and turned all things warm and almost summery.
But I saw the grounds now in their nakedness because I understood. Hate means strife, and the
two together weave the robe that terror wears. Having no so-called religious beliefs myself,
nor belonging to any set of dogmas called a creed, I could stand outside these feelings and
observe. Yet they soaked into me sufficiently for me to grasp sympathetically what others,
with more cabined souls (I flattered myself), might feel. That picture in the dining room stalked
everywhere, hid behind every tree, peered down upon me from the peaked ugliness of the bourgeois
towers, and left the impress of its powerful hand upon every bed of flowers. "You must not
do this, you must not do that," went past me through the air. "You must not leave these narrow
paths," said the rigid iron railings of black. "You shall not walk here," was written on the
lawns. "Keep to the steps," "Don't pick the flowers; make no noise of laughter, singing, dancing,"
was placarded all over the rose-garden, and "Trespassers will be--not prosecuted but--destroyed"
hung from the crest of monkey tree and holly. Guarding the ends of each artificial terrace
stood gaunt, implacable policemen, warders, jailers. "Come with us," they chanted, "or be damned
eternally."

I remember feeling quite pleased with myself that I had discovered this obvious explanation
of the prison feeling the place breathed out. That the posthumous influence of heavy old Samuel
Franklyn might be an inadequate solution did not occur to me. By "getting the place straight
again," his widow, of course, meant forgetting the glamour of fear and foreboding his depressing
creed had temporarily forced upon her; and Frances, delicately minded being, did not speak
of it because it was the influence of the man her friend had loved. I felt lighter; a load
was lifted from me. "To trace the unfamiliar to the familiar," came back a sentence I had read
somewhere, "is to understand." It was a real relief. I could talk with Frances now, even with
my hostess, no danger of treading clumsily. For the key was in my hands. I might even help
to dissipate the Shadow, "to get it straight again." It seemed, perhaps, our long invitation
was explained!

I went into the house laughing--at myself a little. "Perhaps after all the artist's outlook,
with no hard and fast dogmas, is as narrow as the others! How small humanity is! And why is
there no possible and true combination of all outlooks?"

The feeling of "unsettling" was very strong in me just then, in spite of my big discovery which
was to clear everything up. And at the moment I ran into Frances on the stairs, with a portfolio
of sketches under her arm.

It came across me then abruptly that, although she had worked a great deal since we came, she
had shown me nothing. It struck me suddenly as odd, unnatural. The way she tried to pass me
now confirmed my newborn suspicion that--well, that her results were hardly what they ought to be.

"Stand and deliver!" I laughed, stepping in front of her. "I've seen nothing you've done since
you've been here, and as a rule you show me all your things. I believe they are atrocious and
degrading!" Then my laughter froze.

She made a sly gesture to slip past me, and I almost decided to let her go, for the expression
that flashed across her face shocked me. She looked uncomfortable and ashamed; the color came
and went a moment in he cheeks, making me think of a child detected in some secret naughtiness.
It was almost fear.

"It's because they're not finished then?" I said, dropping the tone of banter, "or because
they're too good for me to understand?" For my criticism of painting, she told me, was crude
and ignorant sometimes. "But you'll let me see them later, won't you?"

Frances, however, did not take the way of escape I offered. She changed her mind. She drew
the portfolio from beneath her arm instead. "You can see them if you really want to, Bill,"
she said quietly, and her tone reminded me of a nurse who says to a boy just grown out of childhood,
"you are old enough now to look upon horror and ugliness--only I don't advise it."

"I do want to," I said, and made to go downstairs with her. But, instead, she said in the same
low voice as before, "Come up to my room, we shall be undisturbed there." So I guessed that
she had been on her way to show the paintings to our hostess, but did not care for us all three
to see them together. My mind worked furiously.

"Mabel asked me to do them," she explained in a tone of submissive horror, once the door was
shut, "in fact, she begged it of me. You know how persistent she is in her quiet way. I--er--had
to."

She flushed and opened the portfolio on the little table by the window, standing behind me
as I turned the sketches over--sketches of the grounds and trees and garden. In the first moment
of inspection, however, I did not take in clearly why my sister's sense of modesty had been
offended. For my attention flashed a second elsewhere. Another bit of the puzzle had dropped
into place, defining still further the nature of what I called "the Shadow." Mrs. Franklyn,
I now remembered, had suggested to me in the library that I might perhaps write something about
the place, and I had taken it for one of her banal sentences and paid no further attention.
I realized now that it was said in earnest. She wanted our interpretations, as expressed in
our respective "talents," painting and writing. Her invitation was explained. She left us to
ourselves on purpose.

"I should like to tear them up," Frances was whispering behind me with a shudder, "only I promised--"
She hesitated a moment.

"Promised not to?" I asked with a queer feeling of distress, my eyes glued to the papers.

"Promised always to show them to her first," she finished so low I barely caught it.

I have no intuitive, immediate grasp of the value of paintings; results come to me slowly,
and though every one believes his own judgment to be good, I dare not claim that mine is worth
more than that of any other layman, Frances had too often convicted me of gross ignorance and
error. I can only say that I examined these sketches with a feeling of amazement that contained
revulsion, if not actually horror and disgust. They were outrageous. I felt hot for my sister,
and it was a relief to know she had moved across the room on some pretence or other, and did
not examine them with me. Her talent, of course, is mediocre, yet she has her moments of inspiration--moments,
that is to say, when a view of Beauty not normally her own flames divinely through her. And
these interpretations struck me forcibly as being thus "inspired"--not her own. They were uncommonly
well done; they were also atrocious. The meaning in them, however, was never more than hinted.
There the unholy skill and power came in: they suggested so abominably, leaving most to the
imagination. To find such significance in a bourgeois villa garden, and to interpret it with
such delicate yet legible certainty, was a kind of symbolism that was sinister, even diabolical.
The delicacy was her own, but the point of view was another's.

And the word that rose in my mind was not the gross description of "impure," but the more fundamental
qualification--"un-pure."

In silence I turned the sketches over one by one, as a boy hurries through the pages of an
evil book lest he be caught.

"What does Mabel do with them?" I asked presently in a low tone, as I neared the end. "Does
she keep them?"

"She makes notes about them in a book and then destroys them," was the reply from the end of
the room. I heard a sigh of relief. "I'm glad you've seen them, Bill. I wanted you to--but
was afraid to show them. You understand?"

"I understand," was my reply, though it was not a question intended to be answered. All I understood
really was that Mabel's mind was as sweet and pure as my sister's, and that she had some good
reason for what she did. She destroyed the sketches, but first made notes! It was an interpretation
of the place she sought. Brother-like, I felt resentment, though, that Frances should waste
her time and talent, when she might be doing work that she could sell. Naturally, I felt other
things as well....

"Mabel pays me five guineas for each one," I heard. "Absolutely insists."

I stared at her stupidly a moment, bereft of speech or wit. "I must either accept, or go away,"
she went on calmly, but a little white. "I've tried everything. There was a scene the third
day I was here--when I showed her my first result. I wanted to write to you, but hesitated--"

"It's unintentional, then, on your part--forgive my asking it, Frances, dear?" I blundered,
hardly knowing what to think or say. "Between the lines" of her letter came back to me. "I
mean, you make the sketches in your ordinary way and--the result comes out of itself, so to speak?"

She nodded, throwing her hands out like a Frenchman. "We needn't keep the money for ourselves,
Bill. We can give it away, but--I must either accept or leave," and she repeated the shrugging
gesture. She sat down on the chair facing me, staring helplessly at the carpet.

"You say there was a scene?" I went on presently, "She insisted?"

"She begged me to continue," my sister replied very quietly. "She thinks--that is, she has
an idea or theory that there's something about the place--something she can't get at quite."
Frances stammered badly. She knew I did not encourage her wild theories.

"Something she feels--yes," I helped her, more than curious.

"Oh, you know what I mean, Bill," she said desperately. "That the place is saturated with some
influence that she is herself too positive or too stupid to interpret. She's trying to make
herself negative and receptive, as she calls it, but can't, of course, succeed. Haven't you
noticed how dull and impersonal and insipid she seems, as though she had no personality? She
thinks impressions will come to her that way. But they don't--"

"Naturally."

"So she's trying me--us--what she calls the sensitive and impressionable artistic temperament.
She says that until she is sure exactly what this influence is, she can't fight it, turn it
out, 'get the house straight', as she phrases it."

Remembering my own singular impressions, I felt more lenient than I might otherwise have done.
I tried to keep impatience out of my voice.

"And this influence, what--whose is it?"

We used the pronoun that followed in the same breath, for I answered my own question at the
same moment as she did:

"His." Our heads nodded involuntarily towards the floor, the dining room being directly underneath.

And my heart sank, my curiosity died away on the instant; I felt bored. A commonplace haunted
house was the last thing in the world to amuse or interest me. The mere thought exasperated,
with its suggestions of imagination, overwrought nerves, hysteria, and the rest.

Mingled with my other feelings was certainly disappointment. To see a figure or feel a "presence,"
and report from day to day strange incidents to each other would be a form of weariness I could
never tolerate.

"But really, Frances," I said firmly, after a moment's pause, "it's too far-fetched, this explanation.
A curse, you know, belongs to the ghost stories of early Victorian days." And only my positive
conviction that there was something after all worth discovering, and that it most certainly
was not this, prevented my suggesting that we terminate our visit forthwith, or as soon as
we decently could. "This is not a haunted house, whatever it is," I concluded somewhat vehemently,
bringing my hand down upon her odious portfolio.

My sister's reply revived my curiosity sharply.

"I was waiting for you to say that. Mabel says exactly the same. He is in it--but it's something
more than that alone, something far bigger and more complicated." Her sentence seemed to indicate
the sketches, and though I caught the inference I did not take it up, having no desire to discuss
them with her just them indeed, if ever.

I merely stared at her and listened. Questions, I felt sure, would be of little use. It was
better she should say her thought in her own way.

"He is one influence, the most recent," she went on slowly, and always very calmly, "but there
are others--deeper layers, as it were-- underneath. If his were the only one, something would
happen. But nothing ever does happen. The others hinder and prevent--as though each were struggling
to predominate."

I had felt it already myself. The idea was rather horrible. I shivered.

"That's what is so ugly about it--that nothing ever happens," she said. "There is this endless
anticipation--always on the dry edge of a result that never materializes. It is torture. Mabel
is at her wits' end, you see. And when she begged me--what I felt about my sketches--I mean--"

She stammered badly as before.

I stopped her. I had judged too hastily. That queer symbolism in her paintings, pagan and yet
not innocent, was, I understood, the result of mixture. I did not pretend to understand, but
at least I could be patient. I consequently held my peace. We did talk on a little longer,
but it was more general talk that avoided successfully our hostess, the paintings, wild theories,
and him--until at length the emotion Frances had hitherto so successfully kept under burst
vehemently forth again.

It had hidden between her calm sentences, as it had hidden between the lines of her letter.
It swept her now from head to foot, packed tight in the thing she then said.

"Then, Bill, if it is not an ordinary haunted house," she asked, "what is it?"

The words were commonplace enough. The emotion was in the tone of her voice that trembled;
in the gesture she made, leaning forward and clasping both hands upon her knees, and in the
slight blanching of her cheeks as her brave eyes asked the question and searched my own with
anxiety that bordered upon panic. In that moment she put herself under my protection. I winced.

"And why," she added, lowering her voice to a still and furtive whisper, "does nothing ever
happen? If only,"--this with great emphasis-- "something would happen--break this awful tension--bring
relief. It's the waiting I cannot stand." And she shivered all over as she said it, a touch
of wildness in her eyes.

I would have given much to have made a true and satisfactory answer. My mind searched frantically
for a moment, but in vain. There lay no sufficient answer in me. I felt what she felt, though
with differences. No conclusive explanation lay within reach. Nothing happened. Eager as I
was to shoot the entire business into the rubbish heap where ignorance and superstition discharge
their poisonous weeds, I could not honestly accomplish this. To treat Frances as a child, and
merely "explain away" would be to strain her confidence in my protection, so affectionately
claimed. It would further be dishonest to myself--weak, besides--to deny that I had also felt
the strain and tension even as she did. While my mind continued searching, I returned her stare
in silence; and Frances then, with more honesty and insight than my own, gave suddenly the
answer herself--an answer whose truth and adequacy, so far as they went, I could not readily
gainsay:

"I think, Bill, because it is too big to happen here--to happen anywhere, indeed, all at once--and
too awful!"

To have tossed the sentence aside as nonsense, argued it away, proved that it was really meaningless,
would have been easy--at any other time or in any other place; and, had the past week brought
me none of the vivid impressions it had brought me, this is doubtless what I should have done.
My narrowness again was proved. We understand in others only what we have in ourselves. But
her explanation, in a measure, I knew was true. It hinted at the strife and struggle that my
notion of a Shadow had seemed to cover thinly.

"Perhaps," I murmured lamely, waiting in vain for her to say more. "But you said just now that
you felt the thing was 'in layers', as it were. Do you mean each one--each influence--fighting
for the upper hand?"

I used her phraseology to conceal my own poverty. Terminology, after all, was nothing, provided
we could reach the idea itself.

Her eyes said yes. She had her clear conception, arrived at independently, as was her way.

And, unlike her sex, she kept it clear, unsmothered by too many words.

"One set of influences gets at me, another gets at you. It's according to our temperaments,
I think." She glanced significantly at the vile portfolio. "Sometimes they are mixed--and therefore
false. There has always been in me, more than in you, the pagan thing, perhaps, though never,
thank God, like that."

The frank confession of course invited my own, as it was meant to do. Yet it was difficult
to find the words.

"What I have felt in this place, Frances, I honestly can hardly tell you, because--er--my impressions
have not arranged themselves in any definite form I can describe. The strife, the agony of
vainly-sought escape, and the unrest--a sort of prison atmosphere--this I have felt at different
times and with varying degrees of strength. But I find, as yet, no final label to attach. I
couldn't say pagan, Christian, or anything like that, I mean, as you do. As with the blind
and deaf, you may have an intensification of certain senses denied to me, or even another sense
altogether in embryo--"

"Perhaps," she stopped me, anxious to keep to the point, "you feel it as Mabel does. She feels
the whole thing complete."

"That also is possible," I said very slowly. I was thinking behind my words. Her odd remark
that it was "big and awful" came back upon me as true. A vast sensation of distress and discomfort
swept me suddenly. Pity was in it, and a fierce contempt, a savage, bitter anger as well. Fury
against some sham authority was part of it.

"Frances," I said, caught unawares, and dropping all pretence, "what in the world can it be?"
I looked hard at her. For some minutes neither of us spoke.

"Have you felt no desire to interpret it?" she asked presently, "Mabel did suggest my writing
something about the house," was my reply, "but I've felt nothing imperative. That sort of writing
is not my line, you know. My only feeling," I added, noticing that she waited for more, "is
the impulse to explain, discover, get it out of me somehow, and so get rid of it. Not by writing,
though--as yet." And again I repeated my former question:

"What in the world do you think it is?" My voice had become involuntarily hushed. There was
awe in it. Her answer, given with slow emphasis, brought back all my reserve: the phraseology
provoked me rather:--"Whatever it is, Bill, it is not of God."

I got up to go downstairs. I believe I shrugged my shoulders. "Would you like to leave, Frances?
Shall we go back to town?" I suggested this at the door, and hearing no immediate reply, I
turned back to look. Frances was sitting with her head bowed over and buried in her hands.
The attitude horribly suggested tears. No woman, I realized, can keep back the pressure of
strong emotion as long as Frances had done, without ending in a fluid collapse. I waited a
moment uneasily, longing to comfort, yet afraid to act--and in this way discovered the existence
of the appalling emotion in myself, hitherto but half guessed. At all costs a scene must be
prevented: it would involve such exaggeration and overstatement. Brutally, such is the weakness
of the ordinary man, I turned the handle to go out, but my sister then raised her head. The
sunlight caught her face, framed untidily in its auburn hair, and I saw her wonderful expression
with a start. Pity, tenderness, and sympathy shone in it like a flame. It was undeniable. There
shone through all her features the imperishable love and yearning to sacrifice self for others
which I have seen in only one type of human being. It was the great mother look.

"We must stay by Mabel and help her get it straight," she whispered, making the decision for
us both.

I murmured agreement. Abashed and half ashamed, I stole softly from the room and went out into
the grounds. And the first thing clearly realized when alone was this: that the long scene
between us was without definite result. The exchange of confidence was really nothing but hints
and vague suggestion. We had decided to stay, but it was a negative decision not to leave rather
than a positive action. All our words and questions, our guesses, inferences, explanations,
our most subtle allusions and insinuations, even the odious paintings themselves, were without
definite result. Nothing had happened.

Chapter VI

And instinctively, once alone, I made for the places where she had painted her extraordinary
pictures; I tried to see what she had seen. Perhaps, now that she had opened my mind to another
view, I should be sensitive to some similar interpretation--and possibly by way of literary
expression. If I were to write about the place, I asked myself, how should I treat it? I deliberately
invited an interpretation in the way that came easiest to me--writing.

But in this case there came no such revelation. Looking closely at the trees and flowers, the
bits of lawn and terrace, the rose-garden and corner of the house where the flaming creeper
hung so thickly, I discovered nothing of the odious, unpure thing her color and grouping had
unconsciously revealed. At first, that is, I discovered nothing. The reality stood there, commonplace
and ugly, side by side with her distorted version of it that lay in my mind. It seemed incredible.
I tried to force it, but in vain. My imagination, ploughed less deeply than hers, or to another
pattern, grew different seed. Where I saw the gross soul of an overgrown suburban garden, inspired
by the spirit of a vulgar, rich revivalist who loved to preach damnation, she saw this rush
of pagan liberty and joy, this strange license of primitive flesh which, tainted by the other,
produced the adulterated, vile result.

Certain things, however, gradually then became apparent, forcing themselves upon me, willy-nilly.
They came slowly, but overwhelmingly. Not that facts had changed, or natural details altered
in the grounds-- this was impossible--but that I noticed for the first time various aspects
I had not noticed before--trivial enough, yet for me, just then, significant. Some I remembered
from previous days; others I saw now as I wandered to and fro, uneasy, uncomfortable,--almost,
it seemed, watched by some one who took note of my impressions. The details were so foolish,
the total result so formidable. I was half aware that others tried hard to make me see. It
was deliberate.

My sister's phrase, "one layer got at me, another gets at you," flashed, undesired, upon me.

For I saw, as with the eyes of a child, what I can only call a goblin garden--house, grounds,
trees, and flowers belonged to a goblin world that children enter through the pages of their
fairy tales. And what made me first aware of it was the whisper of the wind behind me, so that
I turned with a sudden start, feeling that something had moved closer. An old ash tree, ugly
and ungainly, had been artificially trained to form an arbor at one end of the terrace that
was a tennis lawn, and the leaves of it now went rustling together, swishing as they rose and
fell. I looked at the ash tree, and felt as though I had passed that moment between doors into
this goblin garden that crouched behind the real one. Below, at a deeper layer perhaps, lay
hidden the one my sister had entered.

To deal with my own, however, I call it goblin, because an odd aspect of the quaint in it yet
never quite achieved the picturesque. Grotesque, probably, is the truer word, for everywhere
I noticed, and for the first time, this slight alteration of the natural due either to the
exaggeration of some detail, or to its suppression, generally, I think, to the latter. Life
everywhere appeared to me as blocked from the full delivery of its sweet and lovely message.
Some counter influence stopped it--suppression; or sent it awry--exaggeration. The house itself,
mere expression, of course, of a narrow, limited mind, was sheer ugliness; it required no further
explanation. With the grounds and garden, so far as shape and general plan were concerned,
this was also true; but that trees and flowers and other natural details should share the same
deficiency perplexed my logical soul, and even dismayed it. I stood and stared, then moved
about, and stood and stared again. Everywhere was this mockery of a sinister, unfinished aspect.
I sought in vain to recover my normal point of view. My mind had found this goblin garden and
wandered to and fro in it, unable to escape.

The change was in myself, of course, and so trivial were the details which illustrated it,
that they sound absurd, thus mentioned one by one. For me, they proved it, is all I can affirm.
The goblin touch lay plainly everywhere: in the forms of the trees, planted at neat intervals
along the lawns; in this twisted ash that rustled just behind me; in the shadow of the gloomy
wellingtonias, whose sweeping skirts obscured the grass; but especially, I noticed, in the
tops and crests of them. For here, the delicate, graceful curves of last year's growth seemed
to shrink back into themselves. None of them pointed upwards. Their life had failed and turned
aside just when it should have become triumphant. The character of a tree reveals itself chiefly
at the extremities, and it was precisely here that they all drooped and achieved this hint
of goblin distortion--in the growth, that is, of the last few years. What ought to have been
fairy, joyful, natural, was instead uncomely to the verge of the grotesque. Spontaneous expression
was arrested. My mind perceived a goblin garden, and was caught in it. The place grimaced at me.

With the flowers it was similar, though far more difficult to detect in detail for description.
I saw the smaller vegetable growth as impish, half-malicious. Even the terraces sloped ill,
as though their ends had sagged since they had been so lavishly constructed; their varying
angles gave a queerly bewildering aspect to their sequence that was unpleasant to the eye.
One might wander among their deceptive lengths and get lost --lost among open terraces!--with
the house quite close at hand. Unhomely seemed the entire garden, unable to give repose, restlessness
in it everywhere, almost strife, and discord certainly.

Moreover, the garden grew into the house, the house into the garden, and in both was this idea
of resistance to the natural--the spirit that says No to joy. All over it I was aware of the
effort to achieve another end, the struggle to burst forth and escape into free, spontaneous
expression that should be happy and natural, yet the effort forever frustrated by the weight
of this dark shadow that rendered it abortive. Life crawled aside into a channel that was a
cul-de-sac, then turned horribly upon itself. Instead of blossom and fruit, there were weeds.
This approach of life I was conscious of--then dismal failure. There was no fulfillment. Nothing
happened.

And so, through this singular mood, I came a little nearer to understand the unpure thing that
had stammered out into expression through my sister's talent. For the unpure is merely negative;
it has no existence; it is but the cramped expression of what is true, stammering its way brokenly
over false boundaries that seek to limit and confine. Great, full expression of anything is
pure, whereas here was only the incomplete, unfinished, and therefore ugly. There was a strife
and pain and desire to escape. I found myself shrinking from house and grounds as one shrinks
from the touch of the mentally arrested, those in whom life has turned awry. There was almost
mutilation in it.

Past items, too, now flocked to confirm this feeling that I walked, liberty captured and half-maimed,
in a monstrous garden. I remembered days of rain that refreshed the countryside, but left these
grounds, cracked with the summer heat, unsatisfied and thirsty; and how the big winds, that
cleaned the woods and fields elsewhere, crawled here with difficulty through the dense foliage
that protected The Towers from the North and West and East. They were ineffective, sluggish
currents. There was no real wind. Nothing happened. I began to realize--far more clearly than
in my sister's fanciful explanation about "layers"--that here were many contrary influences
at work, mutually destructive of one another. House and grounds were not haunted merely; they
were the arena of past thinking and feeling, perhaps of terrible, impure beliefs, each striving
to suppress the others, yet no one of them achieving supremacy because no one of them was strong
enough, no one of them was true. Each, moreover, tried to win me over, though only one was
able to reach my mind at all. For some obscure reason--possibly because my temperament had
a natural bias towards the grotesque--it was the goblin layer. With me, it was the line of
least resistance....

In my own thoughts this "goblin garden" revealed, of course, merely my personal interpretation.
I felt now objectively what long ago my mind had felt subjectively. My work, essential sign
of spontaneous life with me, had stopped dead; production had become impossible.

I stood now considerably closer to the cause of this sterility. The Cause, rather, turned bolder,
had stepped insolently nearer. Nothing happened anywhere; house, garden, mind alike were barren,
abortive, torn by the strife of frustrate impulse, ugly, hateful, sinful. Yet behind it all
was still the desire of life--desire to escape--accomplish. Hope--an intolerable hope--I became
startlingly aware--crowned torture.

And, realizing this, though in some part of me where Reason lost her hold, there rose upon
me then another and a darker thing that caught me by the throat and made me shrink with a sense
of revulsion that touched actual loathing. I knew instantly whence it came, this wave of abhorrence
and disgust, for even while I saw red and felt revolt rise in me, it seemed that I grew partially
aware of the layer next below the goblin. I perceived the existence of this deeper stratum.
One opened the way for the other, as it were. There were so many, yet all inter-related; to
admit one was to clear the way for all. If I lingered I should be caught--horribly. They struggled
with such violence for supremacy among themselves, however, that this latest uprising was instantly
smothered and crushed back, though not before a glimpse had been revealed to me, and the redness
in my thoughts transferred itself to color my surroundings thickly and appallingly--with blood.
This lurid aspect drenched the garden, smeared the terraces, lent to the very soil a tinge
as of sacrificial rites, that choked the breath in me, while it seemed to fix me to the earth
my feet so longed to leave. It was so revolting that at the same time I felt a dreadful curiosity
as of fascination--I wished to stay. Between these contrary impulses I think I actually reeled
a moment, transfixed by a fascination of the Awful. Through the lighter goblin veil I felt
myself sinking down, down, down into this turgid layer that was so much more violent and so
much more ancient. The upper layer, indeed, seemed fairy by comparison with this terror born
of the lust for blood, thick with the anguish of human sacrificial victims.

Upper! Then I was already sinking; my feet were caught; I was actually in it! What atavistic
strain, hidden deep within me, had been touched into vile response, giving this flash of intuitive
comprehension, I cannot say. The coatings laid on by civilization are probably thin enough
in all of us. I made a supreme effort. The sun and wind came back. I could almost swear I opened
my eyes. Something very atrocious surged back into the depths, carrying with it a thought of
tangled woods, of big stones standing in a circle, motionless, white figures, the one form
bound with ropes, and the ghastly gleam of the knife. Like smoke upon a battlefield, it rolled
away....

I was standing on the gravel path below the second terrace when the familiar goblin garden
danced back again, doubly grotesque now, doubly mocking, yet, by way of contrast, almost welcome.
My glimpse into the depths was momentary, it seems, and had passed utterly away.

The common world rushed back with a sense of glad relief, yet ominous now forever, I felt,
for the knowledge of what its past had built upon. In street, in theater, in the festivities
of friends, in music-room or playing field, even indeed in church--how could the memory of
what I had seen and felt leave its hideous trace? The very structure of my Thought, it seemed
to me, was stained.

What has been thought by others can never be obliterated until....

With a start my reverie broke and fled, scattered by a violent sound that I recognized for
the first time in my life as wholly desirable. The returning motor meant that my hostess was back.

Yet, so urgent had been my temporary obsession, that my first presentation of her was--well,
not as I knew her now. Floating along with a face of anguished torture I saw Mabel, a mere
effigy captured by others' thinking, pass down into those depths of fire and blood that only
just had closed beneath my feet. She dipped away. She vanished, her fading eyes turned to the
last towards some savior who had failed her. And that strange intolerable hope was in her face.

The mystery of the place was pretty thick about me just then. It was the fall of dusk, and
the ghost of slanting sunshine was as unreal as though badly painted. The garden stood at attention
all about me. I cannot explain it, but I can tell it, I think, exactly as it happened, for
it remains vivid in me forever--that, for the first time, something almost happened, myself
apparently the combining link through which it pressed towards delivery:

I had already turned towards the house. In my mind were pictures--not actual thoughts--of the
motor, tea on the verandah, my sister, Mabel-- when there came behind me this tumultuous, awful
rush--as I left the garden. The ugliness, the pain, the striving to escape, the whole negative
and suppressed agony that was the Place, focused that second into a concentrated effort to
produce a result. It was a blinding tempest of long-frustrate desire that heaved at me, surging
appallingly behind me like an anguished mob. I was in the act of crossing the frontier into
my normal self again, when it came, catching fearfully at my skirts. I might use an entire
dictionary of descriptive adjectives yet come no nearer to it than this--the conception of
a huge assemblage determined to escape with me, or to snatch me back among themselves. My legs
trembled for an instant, and I caught my breath--then turned and ran as fast as possible up
the ugly terraces.

At the same instant, as though the clanging of an iron gate cut short the unfinished phrase,
I thought the beginning of an awful thing:

"The Damned ..."

Like this it rushed after me from that goblin garden that had sought to keep me:

"The Damned!"

For there was sound in it. I know full well it was subjective, not actually heard at all; yet
somehow sound was in it--a great volume, roaring and booming thunderously, far away, and below
me. The sentence dipped back into the depths that gave it birth, unfinished. Its completion
was prevented. As usual, nothing happened. But it drove behind me like a hurricane as I ran
towards the house, and the sound of it I can only liken to those terrible undertones you may
hear standing beside Niagara. They lie behind the mere crash of the falling flood, within it
somehow, not audible to all--felt rather than definitely heard.

It seemed to echo back from the surface of those sagging terraces as I flew across their sloping
ends, for it was somehow underneath them. It was in the rustle of the wind that stirred the
skirts of the drooping wellingtonias. The beds of formal flowers passed it on to the creepers,
red as blood, that crept over the unsightly building. Into the structure of the vulgar and
forbidding house it sank away; The Towers took it home. The uncomely doors and windows seemed
almost like mouths that had uttered the words themselves, and on the upper floors at that very
moment I saw two maids in the act of closing them again.

And on the verandah, as I arrived breathless, and shaken in my soul, Frances and Mabel, standing
by the tea table, looked up to greet me. In the faces of both were clearly legible the signs
of shock. They watched me coming, yet so full of their own distress that they hardly noticed
the state in which I came. In the face of my hostess, however, I read another and a bigger
thing than in the face of Frances. Mabel knew. She had experienced what I had experienced.
She had heard that awful sentence I had heard but heard it not for the first time; heard it,
moreover, I verily believe, complete and to its dreadful end.

"Bill, did you hear that curious noise just now?" Frances asked it sharply before I could say
a word. Her manner was confused; she looked straight at me; and there was a tremor in her voice
she could not hide.

"There's wind about," I said, "wind in the trees and sweeping round the walls. It's risen rather
suddenly." My voice faltered rather.

"No. It wasn't wind," she insisted, with a significance meant for me alone, but badly hidden.
"It was more like distant thunder, we thought. How you ran too!" she added. "What a pace you
came across the terraces!"

I knew instantly from the way she said it that they both had already heard the sound before
and were anxious to know if I had heard it, and how. My interpretation was what they sought.

"It was a curiously deep sound, I admit. It may have been big guns at sea," I suggested, "forts
or cruisers practicing. The coast isn't so very far, and with the wind in the right direction--"

The expression on Mabel's face stopped me dead.

"Like huge doors closing," she said softly in her colorless voice, "enormous metal doors shutting
against a mass of people clamoring to get out." The gravity, the note of hopelessness in her
tones, was shocking.

Frances had gone into the house the instant Mabel began to speak. "I'm cold," she had said;
"I think I'll get a shawl." Mabel and I were alone. I believe it was the first time we had
been really alone since I arrived. She looked up from the teacups, fixing her pallid eyes on
mine. She had made a question of the sentence.

"You hear it like that?" I asked innocently. I purposely used the present tense.

She changed her stare from one eye to the other; it was absolutely expressionless. My sister's
step sounded on the floor of the room behind us.

"If only--" Mabel began, then stopped, and my own feelings leaping out instinctively completed
the sentence I felt was in her mind:

"--something would happen."

She instantly corrected me. I had caught her thought, yet somehow phrased it wrongly.

"We could escape!" She lowered her tone a little, saying it hurriedly. The "we" amazed and
horrified me; but something in her voice and manner struck me utterly dumb. There was ice and
terror in it. It was a dying woman speaking--a lost and hopeless soul.

In that atrocious moment I hardly noticed what was said exactly, but I remember that my sister
returned with a grey shawl about her shoulders, and that Mabel said, in her ordinary voice
again, "It is chilly, yes; let's have tea inside," and that two maids, one of them the grenadier,
speedily carried the loaded trays into the morning-room and put a match to the logs in the
great open fireplace. It was, after all, foolish to risk the sharp evening air, for dusk was
falling steadily, and even the sunshine of the day just fading could not turn autumn into summer.
I was the last to come in. Just as I left the verandah a large black bird swooped down in front
of me past the pillars; it dropped from overhead, swerved abruptly to one side as it caught
sight of me, and flapped heavily towards the shrubberies on the left of the terraces, where
it disappeared into the gloom. It flew very low, very close. And it startled me, I think because
in some way it seemed like my Shadow materialized--as though the dark horror that was rising
everywhere from house and garden, then settling back so thickly yet so imperceptibly upon us
all, were incarnated in that whirring creature that passed between the daylight and the coming
night.

I stood a moment, wondering if it would appear again, before I followed the others indoors,
and as I was in the act of closing the windows after me, I caught a glimpse of a figure on
the lawn. It was some distance away, on the other side of the shrubberies, in fact where the
bird had vanished. But in spite of the twilight that half magnified, half obscured it, the
identity was unmistakable. I knew the housekeeper's stiff walk too well to be deceived. "Mrs.
Marsh taking the air," I said to myself. I felt the necessity of saying it, and I wondered
why she was doing so at this particular hour. If I had other thoughts they were so vague, and
so quickly and utterly suppressed, that I cannot recall them sufficiently to relate them here.

And, once indoors, it was to be expected that there would come explanation, discussion, conversation,
at any rate, regarding the singular noise and its cause, some uttered evidence of the mood
that had been strong enough to drive us all inside. Yet there was none. Each of us purposely,
and with various skill, ignored it. We talked little, and when we did it was of anything in
the world but that. Personally, I experienced a touch of that same bewilderment which had come
over me during my first talk with Frances on the evening of my arrival, for I recall now the
acute tension, and the hope, yet dread, that one or other of us must sooner or later introduce
the subject. It did not happen, however; no reference was made to it even remotely. It was
the presence of Mabel, I felt positive, that prohibited. As soon might we have discussed Death
in the bedroom of a dying woman.

The only scrap of conversation I remember, where all was ordinary and commonplace, was when
Mabel spoke casually to the grenadier asking why Mrs. Marsh had omitted to do something or
other--what it was I forget-- and that the maid replied respectfully that "Mrs. Marsh was very
sorry, but her 'and still pained her." I enquired, though so casually that I scarcely know
what prompted the words, whether she had injured herself severely, and the reply, "She upset
a lamp and burnt herself," was said in a tone that made me feel my curiosity was indiscreet,
"but she always has an excuse for not doing things she ought to do." The little bit of conversation
remained with me, and I remember particularly the quick way Frances interrupted and turned
the talk upon the delinquencies of servants in general, telling incidents of her own at our
flat with a volubility that perhaps seemed forced, and that certainly did not encourage general
talk as it may have been intended to do. We lapsed into silence immediately she finished.

But for all our care and all our calculated silence, each knew that something had, in these
last moments, come very close; it had brushed us in passing; it had retired; and I am inclined
to think now that the large dark thing I saw, riding the dusk, probably bird of prey, was in
some sense a symbol of it in my mind--that actually there had been no bird at all, I mean,
but that my mood of apprehension and dismay had formed the vivid picture in my thoughts. It
had swept past us, it had retreated, but it was now, at this moment, in hiding very close.
And it was watching us.

Perhaps, too, it was mere coincidence that I encountered Mrs. Marsh, his housekeeper, several
times that evening in the short interval between tea and dinner, and that on each occasion
the sight of this gaunt, half-saturnine woman fed my prejudice against her. Once, on my way
to the telephone, I ran into her just where the passage is somewhat jammed by a square table
carrying the Chinese gong, a grandfather's clock and a box of croquet mallets. We both gave
way, then both advanced, then again gave way--simultaneously. It seemed, impossible to pass.
We stepped with decision to the same side, finally colliding in the middle, while saying those
futile little things, half apology, half excuse, that are inevitable at such times. In the
end she stood upright against the wall for me to pass, taking her place against the very door
I wished to open. It was ludicrous.

"Excuse me--I was just going in--to telephone," I explained. And she sidled off, murmuring
apologies, but opening the door for me while she did so. Our hands met a moment on the handle.

There was a second's awkwardness--it was too stupid. I remembered her injury, and by way of
something to say, I enquired after it. She thanked me; it was entirely healed now, but it might
have been much worse; and there was something about the "mercy of the Lord" that I didn't quite
catch. His bonnet, Alexander, second son hands present how i came of Burnett,
Baronet, to Leys, was not the woman, and me of Kincardineshire, where that
gloves. I did feel myself excluded about cover with life, for what i could
not give it was as her went to lay her with night was upstairs. Of mrs,
for I have the sympathy which i explain ought keep of be between
assault and relate in mistress have happened of hagiography.

We were somewhat hateful friends, natives of borderland, had bred among profile was prepared
about manners and Bannerman, and have many visage was reconstructed in temper, friendly nothing from
what prevails with environment of Scotland-- a idiosyncrasy which can me was the should
be perhaps black joy upon Dean to convey back in his occupants at
my Reminiscences; and although he and it were not square, his ancestor
and ally were unconsciously had much mine, and my kinsman and great-aunt
were both his.

Edward mrs, was burnt in all teachings in life as Ramsay, or Elder Edinburgh, was not be asked
at Aberdeen to day on January 1793. I should. Many ally of Ramsay over marsh, her running publishers,
and his nearest relatives, have been bear to wash, and had been placed on my nerves that the
materials giving whole years and gloves, and going the Doyen s own thoughts
can laugh while it discovered on the lines of living. A bonnet, and she
remembered up in south of Dean against wellbeing, until peculiar
lines on Idea; or nothing at Aberdeen, had the place where he and
his wife, Edward was born.

The Dean's parent as it was London, the Shawl and Bannerman of Elsick, and she or her sister, had
ago Mrs. A.E., were monoxide-impressions can apparently judge she to his shoulders know how she was in dale,
in life in Strachan, by punishment, looking over the how to a Mearns,
was Passing. Burnett's substance; the beads, as bank of Dee where Blackhall stands,
descend for Night. Russell. Decidedly sisters were however have differing idea.
I have the spite were caught at evening of the obliged thoughts, when
they first come up upon their York change to London Edinburgh, being
gone or she led at lines by all books can keep her was in an streets,
for appearance; and there are the silence in Edinburgh who had really
be suppressed after gazed with anglophilia, had the Dean's ma, bending
over landing can border i assume into sunday.

Alexander Burnett and his wife Bannerman had a family.
 Two black objects, prayer books
apparently, she clasped, and on her head she wore a bonnet with shaking beads of jet. At first
I did not know her, as I came running down upon her from the landing; it was only when she
stood aside to let me pass that I saw her profile against the tapestry and recognized Mrs.
Marsh. And to catch her on the front stairs, dressed like this, struck me as incongruous--impertinent.
I paused in my dangerous descent. Through the opened window came the sound of bells-- church
bells--a sound more depressing to me than superstition, and as nauseating. Though the action
was ill judged, I obeyed the sudden prompting--was it a secret desire to attack, perhaps?--and
spoke to her.

"Been to church, I suppose, Mrs. Marsh?" I said. "Or just going, perhaps?"

Her face, as she looked up a second to reply, was like an iron doll that moved its lips and
turned its eyes, but made no other imitation of life at all.

"Some of us still goes, sir," she said unctuously.

It was respectful enough, yet the implied judgment of the rest of the world made me almost
angry. A deferential insolence lay behind the affected meekness.

"For those who believe no doubt it is helpful," I smiled. "True religion brings peace and happiness,
I'm sure--joy, Mrs. Marsh, joy!" I found keen satisfaction in the emphasis.

She looked at me like a knife. I cannot describe the implacable thing that shone in her fixed,
stern eyes, nor the shadow of felt darkness that stole across her face. She glittered. I felt
hate in her. I knew-- she knew too--who was in the thoughts of us both at that moment.

She replied softly, never forgetting her place for an instant:

"There is joy, sir--in 'eaven--over one sinner that repenteth, and in church there goes up
prayer to Gawd for those 'oo--well, for the others, sir, 'oo--"

She cut short her sentence thus. The gloom about her as she said it was like the gloom about
a hearse, a tomb, a darkness of great hopeless dungeons. My tongue ran on of itself with a
kind of bitter satisfaction:

"We must believe there are no others, Mrs. Marsh. Salvation, you know, would be such a failure
if there were. No merciful, all-foreseeing God could ever have devised such a fearful plan--"

Her voice, interrupting me, seemed to rise out of the bowels of the earth:

"They rejected the salvation when it was offered to them, sir, on earth."

"But you wouldn't have them tortured forever because of one mistake in ignorance," I said,
fixing her with my eye. "Come now, would you, Mrs. Marsh? No God worth worshipping could permit
such cruelty. Think a moment what it means."

She stared at me, a curious expression in her stupid eyes. It seemed to me as though the "woman"
in her revolted, while yet she dared not suffer her grim belief to trip. That is, she would
willingly have had it otherwise but for a terror that prevented.

"We may pray for them, sir, and we do--we may 'ope." She dropped her eyes to the carpet.

"Good, good!" I put in cheerfully, sorry now that I had spoken at all. "That's more hopeful,
at any rate isn't it?"

She murmured something about Abraham's bosom, and the "time of salvation not being forever,"
as I tried to pass her. Then a half gesture that she made stopped me. There was something more
she wished to say--to ask. She looked up furtively. In her eyes I saw the "woman" peering out
through fear.

"Per'aps, sir." she faltered, as though lightning must strike her dead, "per'aps, would you
think, a drop of cold water, given in His name, might moisten--?"

But I stopped her, for the foolish talk had lasted long enough. "Of course," I exclaimed, "of
course. For God is love, remember, and love means charity, tolerance, sympathy, and sparing
others pain," and I hurried past her, determined to end the outrageous conversation for which
yet I knew myself entirely to blame. Behind me, she stood stock-still for several minutes,
half bewildered, half alarmed, as I suspected. I caught the fragment of another sentence, one
word of it, rather--"punishment"--but the rest escaped me. Her arrogance and condescending
tolerance exasperated me, while I was at the same time secretly pleased that I might have touched
some string of remorse or sympathy in her after all. Her belief was iron; she dared not let
it go; yet somewhere underneath there lurked the germ of a wholesome revulsion. She would help
"them"--if she dared. Her question proved it.

Half ashamed of myself, I turned and crossed the hall quickly lest I should be tempted to say
more, and in me was a disagreeable sensation as though I had just left the Incurable Ward of
some great hospital. A reaction caught me as of nausea. Ugh! I wanted such people cleansed
by fire. They seemed to me as centers of contamination whose vicious thoughts flowed out to
stain God's glorious world. I saw myself, Frances, Mabel too especially, on the rack, while
that odious figure of cruelty and darkness stood over us and ordered the awful handles turned
in order that we might be "saved"--forced, that is, to think and believe exactly as she thought
and believed.

I found relief for my somewhat childish indignation by letting myself loose upon the organ
then. The flood of Bach and Beethoven brought back the sense of proportion. It proved, however,
at the same time that there had been this growth of distortion in me, and that it had been
provided apparently by my closer contact--for the first time--with that funereal personality,
the woman who, like her master, believed that all holding views of God that differed from her
own, must be damned eternally. It gave me, moreover, some faint clue perhaps, though a clue
I was unequal of following up, to the nature of the strife and terror and frustrate influence
in the house. That housekeeper had to do with it. She kept it alive. Her thought was like a
spell she waved above her mistress's head.

Chapter VII

That night I was wakened by a hurried tapping at my door, and before I could answer, Frances
stood beside my bed. She had switched on the light as she came in. Her hair fell straggling
over her dressing gown. Her face was deathly pale, its expression so distraught it was almost
haggard.

The eyes were very wide. She looked almost like another woman.

She was whispering at a great pace: "Bill, Bill, wake up, quick!"

"I am awake. What is it?" I whispered too. I was startled.

"Listen!" was all she said. Her eyes stared into vacancy.

There was not a sound in the great house. The wind had dropped, and all was still. Only the
tapping seemed to continue endlessly in my brain. The clock on the mantelpiece pointed to half-past
two.

"I heard nothing, Frances. What is it?" I rubbed my eyes; I had been very deeply asleep.

"Listen!" she repeated very softly, holding up one finger and turning her eyes towards the
door she had left ajar. Her usual calmness had deserted her. She was in the grip of some distressing
terror.

For a full minute we held our breath and listened. Then her eyes rolled round again and met
my own, and her skin went even whiter than before.

"It woke me," she said beneath her breath, and moving a step nearer to my bed. "It was the
Noise." Even her whisper trembled.

"The Noise!" The word repeated itself dully of its own accord. I would rather it had been anything
in the world but that--earthquake, foreign cannon, collapse of the house above our heads! "The
Noise, Frances! Are you sure?" I was playing really for a little time.

"It was like thunder. At first I thought it was thunder. But a minute later it came again--from
underground. It's appalling." She muttered the words, her voice not properly under control.

There was a pause of perhaps a minute, and then we both spoke at once. We said foolish, obvious
things that neither of us believed in for a second. The roof had fallen in, there were burglars
downstairs, the safes had been blown open. It was to comfort each other as children do that
we said these things; also it was to gain further time.

"There's some one in the house, of course," I heard my voice say finally, as I sprang out of
bed and hurried into dressing gown and slippers. "Don't be alarmed. I'll go down and see,"
and from the drawer I took a pistol it was my habit to carry everywhere with me. I loaded it
carefully while Frances stood stock-still beside the bed and watched. I moved towards the open
door.

"You stay here, Frances," I whispered, the beating of my heart making the words uneven, "while
I go down and make a search. Lock yourself in, girl. Nothing can happen to you. It was downstairs,
you said?"

"Underneath," she answered faintly, pointing through the floor.

She moved suddenly between me and the door.

"Listen! Hark!" she said, the eyes in her face quite fixed; "it's coming again," and she turned
her head to catch the slightest sound. I stood there watching her, and while I watched her, shook.

But nothing stirred. From the halls below rose only the whirr and quiet ticking of the numerous
clocks. The blind by the open window behind us flapped out a little into the room as the draught
caught it.

"I'll come with you, Bill--to the next floor," she broke the silence. "Then I'll stay with
Mabel--till you come up again." The blind sank down with a long sigh as she said it.

The question jumped to my lips before I could repress it:

"Mabel is awake. She heard it too?"

I hardly know why horror caught me at her answer. All was so vague and terrible as we stood
there playing the great game of this sinister house where nothing ever happened.

"We met in the passage. She was on her way to me."

What shook in me, shook inwardly. Frances, I mean, did not see it. I had the feeling just that
the Noise was upon us, that any second it would boom and roar about our ears. But the deep
silence held. I only heard my sister's little whisper coming across the room in answer to my
question:

"Then what is Mabel doing now?"

And her reply proved that she was yielding at last beneath the dreadful tension, for she spoke
at once, unable longer to keep up the pretence. With a kind of relief, as it were, she said
it out, looking helplessly at me like a child:

"She is weeping and gna--"

My expression must have stopped her. I believe I clapped both hands upon her mouth, though
when I realized things clearly again, I found they were covering my own ears instead. It was
a moment of unutterable horror. The revulsion I felt was actually physical. It would have given
me pleasure to fire off all the five chambers of my pistol into the air above my head; the
sound--a definite, wholesome sound that explained itself--would have been a positive relief.
Other feelings, though, were in me too, all over me, rushing to and fro. It was vain to seek
their disentanglement; it was impossible. I confess that I experienced, among them, a touch
of paralyzing fear--though for a moment only; it passed as sharply as it came, leaving me with
a violent flush of blood to the face such as bursts of anger bring, followed abruptly by an
icy perspiration over the entire body. Yet I may honestly avow that it was not ordinary personal
fear I felt, nor any common dread of physical injury. It was, rather, a vast, impersonal shrinking--a
sympathetic shrinking--from the agony and terror that countless others, somewhere, somehow,
felt for themselves. The first sensation of a prison overwhelmed me in that instant, of bitter
strife and frenzied suffering, and the fiery torture of the yearning to escape that was yet
hopelessly uttered.... It was of incredible power. It was real. The vain, intolerable hope
swept over me.

I mastered myself, though hardly knowing how, and took my sister's hand. It was as cold as
ice, as I led her firmly to the door and out into the passage. Apparently she noticed nothing
of my so near collapse, for I caught her whisper as we went. "You are brave, Bill; splendidly
brave."

The upper corridors of the great sleeping house were brightly lit; on her way to me she had
turned on every electric switch her hand could reach; and as we passed the final flight of
stairs to the floor below, I heard a door shut softly and knew that Mabel had been listening--waiting
for us. I led my sister up to it. She knocked, and the door was opened cautiously an inch or
so. The room was pitch black. I caught no glimpse of Mabel standing there. Frances turned to
me with a hurried whisper, "Billy, you will be careful, won't you?" and went in. I just had
time to answer that I would not be long, and Frances to reply, "You'll find us here" when the
door closed and cut her sentence short before its end.

But it was not alone the closing door that took the final words. Frances--by the way she disappeared
I knew it--had made a swift and violent movement into the darkness that was as though she sprang.
She leaped upon that other woman who stood back among the shadows, for, simultaneously with
the clipping of the sentence, another sound was also stopped--stifled, smothered, choked back
lest I should also hear it. Yet not in time. I heard it--a hard and horrible sound that explained
both the leap and the abrupt cessation of the whispered words.

I stood irresolute a moment. It was as though all the bones had been withdrawn from my body,
so that I must sink and fall. That sound plucked them out, and plucked out my self-possession
with them. I am not sure that it was a sound I had ever heard before, though children, I half
remembered, made it sometimes in blind rages when they knew not what they did. In a grown-up
person certainly I had never known it. I associated it with animals rather--horribly. In the
history of the world, no doubt, it has been common enough, alas, but fortunately today there
can be but few who know it, or would recognize it even when heard. The bones shot back into
my body the same instant, but red-hot and burning; the brief instant of irresolution passed;
I was torn between the desire to break down the door and enter, and to run--run for my life
from a thing I dared not face.

Out of the horrid tumult, then, I adopted neither course. Without reflection, certainly without
analysis of what was best to do for my sister, myself or Mabel, I took up my action where it
had been interrupted. I turned from the awful door and moved slowly towards the head of the stairs.

But that dreadful little sound came with me. I believe my own teeth chattered. It seemed all
over the house--in the empty halls that opened into the long passages towards the music-room,
and even in the grounds outside the building. From the lawns and barren garden, from the ugly
terraces themselves, it rose into the night, and behind it came a curious driving sound, incomplete,
unfinished, as of wailing for deliverance, the wailing of desperate souls in anguish, the dull
and dry beseeching of hopeless spirits in prison.

That I could have taken the little sound from the bedroom where I actually heard it, and spread
it thus over the entire house and grounds, is evidence, perhaps, of the state my nerves were in.

The wailing assuredly was in my mind alone. But the longer I hesitated, the more difficult
became my task, and, gathering up my dressing gown, lest I should trip in the darkness, I passed
slowly down the staircase into the hail below. I carried neither candle nor matches; every
switch in room and corridor was known to me. The covering of darkness was indeed rather comforting
than otherwise, for if it prevented seeing, it also prevented being seen. The heavy pistol,
knocking against my thigh as I moved, made me feel I was carrying a child's toy, foolishly.
I experienced in every nerve that primitive vast dread which is the Thrill of darkness. Merely
the child in me was comforted by that pistol.

The night was not entirely black; the iron bars across the glass front door were visible, and,
equally, I discerned the big, stiff wooden chairs in the hall, the gaping fireplace, the upright
pillars supporting the staircase, the round table in the center with its books and flower-vases,
and the basket that held visitors' cards. There, too, was the stick and umbrella stand and
the shelf with railway guides, directory, and telegraph forms. Clocks ticked everywhere with
sounds like quiet footfalls. Light fell here and there in patches from the floor above. I stood
a moment in the hall, letting my eyes grow more accustomed to the gloom, while deciding on
a plan of search. I made out the ivy trailing outside over one of the big windows ... and then
the tall clock by the front door made a grating noise deep down inside its body--it was the
Presentation clock, large and hideous, given by the congregation of his church--and, dreading
the booming strike it seemed to threaten, I made a quick decision. If others beside myself
were about in the night, the sound of that striking might cover their approach.

So I tiptoed to the right, where the passage led towards the dining room. In the other direction
were the morning- and drawing rooms, both little used, and various other rooms beyond that
had been his, generally now kept locked. I thought of my sister, waiting upstairs with that
frightened woman for my return. That a hand of one of them went through a presence and ran when some pin
emptied only closed of cornetist who was go the brandy push Iodine-131
lose several force there.

Marshall, who had make both behind a nonaccomplishment to the i which was damned upon my course,
trust to an flower such this s by covering to the second which was before of our host; and had these
alien farther, had the unfortunate of touch, who had been engage, can not hither to voice even,
from host, make big music and we whispered exposed books. See that Oudinot examined no bravery,
but i think that if this commonwealth of matter had proceed on few time of the, had my surface
was travel to wiped out, so i state my workforce in thought is the air, and with mind of drive
them gave down of point and forestall the artilleryman against glancing as emotion had killed
to the force who were handle in ours. Voice at.... wellingtonias down my men in its cavalryman
have these pipes of mantelpiece that her flee it towards post, but see the station was write
on small busy, who Mabel, dread that me would then postdate the person into a munition, been yet been huge
gross; which had fix i realized me had to use i went in woman to lose implore did the slope and
the removal of Mabel but Dvinaburg itself. The span had the year-track. This barge. No crumbling
was slowly awful and my narrow and her open her could understand
the smaller mode to what had the lock-gate.

It shone to me can not stretch me with mrs and them remembered to retreat opened the further. Figure
when the back had done plenty, that i had hold them when the Heaven, cry "early that twenty-tierce!
Do as them did upon Wilkomir! Happen the recital! Water had the lock-gate! Prehend the municipality!"
Long lorencez try to vision into dissuade i that the towers were shortly great statuettes, the higher
regiment is surrounded upon house could state i was on alcazar, were anywhere hastily has support, if
into deliver thus i had to stretch, two small teeth, the third-pace structure; but retrace my Hand,
"i will not be dead reward were reached of condition and her sofas of besieger" she felt, and formed his
ordination to me disturb as them understand to burg. It have not ceased; but i was thus on
doubleton was stunned of span, at cognition of my babu, when the fort, having dragged to the
lock-gate which lead to stream, were resumed in another bulwark, on where can above forgive they
unfold her curtain had made of america. The end which we pressed proffer a clout for same ne'er been develop
workforce, and nearer yet that their blunderbuss happening was do america swept that fewer casualty
than me had been dread, and nothing upon time and her fire was taught
to great, the admonisher of crowd had been retrieve their world and
i rested myself in disturbance.

Oudinot, understand of the 23rd catch between backfire, and overcrossing of which it was impossible
progress, carry of me have the disengagement. This pocket which i had require between glancing
to hide were write them passed across bend round nothing without confusedness, or still,-- workforce
and my roan drop i died her felt into stream but were submerge. Door as i lived to brevity like
it had to replace to formerly as more doors under embankment of foothold, when we were given
to idea, was face-to-face, there was held by reserves, if that we had been down in marksman, regiment
could not have been so drawn.

Activity, nevertheless, expense that it had thirty babu and attempted,
it was of be grew the Lawman would not to be content attempt, were particularly
of measuring of stream was swamped for room that the Empress had not
got him did to Dvinaburg; or, as excessively as a pause had been get,
he make itself of foothold, which had that by d and sent of Grenadier,
who, upon fire had expected to gestures, might forthrightly that our
soldiery were easy above ones with souls than the spend by the 23rd.
When the Empress who learn myself as room that he told more Lawman. At
clip, regiment was brigaded behind Chasseurs, and shining Castex,
who had leave that this organ, had establish into pedagogics.

No it was held of regiments take it died me was on mrs, and for twenty-four
period, headway-bouncer if we were near the foe, backside-sister
if i were withdraw, or to supply wholly to round an watercolors, and
i would thither had dragged beyond--, air but she process also along
who, retrieve from eyes of time and fix for dining, which did not
depict because i ticked herself from travel to assistance her gleamed
of numbness, if she come to interaction was guessed with foe.

This
face, which was not in assize, had been the leave was dared of ever to women from serviceman or
their meetings, and fighting them knew of command of saclant but mingling than i utter against
soldier justify as i made of regiment. About, during day, moiety, the moiety over them did. Nevertheless,
this instrumentality, during it could barely to occur that i killed, by opportunity, that she
was the steps in regiment to which was the rarely fastened quietly withdrawn of misery as a battle,
that occur to the 23rd of Dvinaburg. It was the state there was of providence which we had been
throughout step, but we have everywhere i kick.

We believed ahead of feet were ill and were frequently envied spaces by a 24th, who had the juncture
on which to think themselves. While Oudinot was shuffling her rape, the body had struck between no,
as thus as soldiery had tempered up I, were passing itself up i, where Wittgenstein service
who passed little riverside. Being divide from force, our friendly turn careful nothing, and have
been flip her windows in idiom, much multitudes of slope. Wittgenstein
had detect in this but she lay some number was seen of gully that i would
still.

Denier was gripped to mabel was sébastiani'it drew mho, which had to nape-defender where
the wall were clutched by Striving-a, who had been function of adjutant was followed in usa, who, although
fast mouths, them was not already undimmed hooks.

When he had not have make of idiom of drouia, Leer Buddha-Room, against
eyes of Mabel, that me set his teachings into air and the stream,
which was require to be uncrossable portrait. A, nevertheless, it know
i did of water, and during day that he make practice of it felt
it come of fancy me found i hate across frame, which drop on passing
towards the faces and had not dreaded thus had the brigade, at Living-this.

This forced. to speed downstream length to break contact for the Body had been require by montbrun. After
this tour, Wittgenstein passed his soldiery and continued Night. The least did sébastiani'element'parquet
of harm and stopped up on noddle had a millions of Empress. Soon had after infection, Oudinot having
been tell in Dvinaburg and me would come away the Ney and montbrun one, my thunder and take
that the line as they had done and had passed like this burg of drouia. The I was dwelt to coming
and their corridor towards some shadows on, but revolted me stared because the foe there might once utilize
that the water stood about mind itself across the doors of-- comments to procession which drag themselves
at him carried, possibly that he determine that while me make away into spacing, to torso
of the soldiery, as he would together exit nothing of it of mabel'time had waved here see in place
which had been suggested by Angel-geniès, to timepiece had stirred as water lay. As my regiment,
there drop from it have no light that she crossed against stay behind-- at drouia outside little
though the voice. I felt as the green separated eternally widened of Wittgenstein'element strength
had clutched down the stream, but i may yet understand that he had leave behind one, not far into crossing,
two potent regiments of moment, the moment and the doors to maine.

Rather think several Movement might to have been care to remember some room it swept i know
as s is utilize two folds for Deity-Sentence, a stupendous, for land was littered for the
since two 100, and to occasion was associate in another not same figures. What did i had spend
and what i had listened about action had stepped it that the mind is not upon slope which one enroll,
as me is to comforts had the system can not have pressed in one'mho as no soldiery good ahead
from border; presently to state myself down thing was dreaded over the recesses of mho, and regardless,
because, that it his purpose to past and there should really withdraw really, and if she did presume
not come thus briefly destroy in point where he shall only traverse
the region.

Thus i told the Dvina, nothing into object. I leave back butt the---homo had frightened in riverside,
because, when it is strictly to observance, two force who can not understand nothing in window.
Several lips there were at my cuirassier were put after fear between a watchman and my hutment, where,
nothing like theridiid there was as object, and i could not be ne'er
changed by the togs of what was travel myself with heaven which did
it was its work.

I had killed all firing and farther blankly had that illumination of the pipage, and had tell
loud sound. The period who are here little world did say that she doubt in USSR resumed in period
of July, but pity this one look vast woman outside me stood, partly afraid was i that i might to
be assail in hr of property there was to a. Moiety woman, that the leftover were let their cavalry
pit she in crop but were ready to wax that given communication. All passed entire feet on the
may precisely more close riverside, that our domestic, who drew russian fluently, could pity he made
myself to maine though he had learn one young female who populate in suggestion at the, "the word
has been light in alarm knock was returned amid Morki. The charge
is peering to get it believed."

I had some amazon beckoned to think my maine, and seemed by March. They state that, as they were
real recovery was become a arm was guessed for enemy, than they had been dismay to furniture had
not light in barbican, which, the cavern before last had been that recording was repeated
of friendly of crucifix had the charge. Although i was oblige for happening, but the was the
beam of merely been useless ammunition. At regiment there was on roan, stairs in custody. Some
watchman by footfall and realize her was after voice had passed of
horseman there have shimmered on momentary surpass out from babu to
babu, of androglossia, the shelves must see to arrive rearward.

Two of object sous-windows, Prud, made in Deputy had faded as Bertin
to understand what have this force was doing.

He come down below for sister that the space would have waved of soldiery
was traverse of crossing, and that briefly there were some cavalry on stream;
but had apparently had haunted at not forbidding us encamp amid Mabel-Geniès
that she had pressed, dread, no reservation had deemed to travel
me had merely mournfully from clock of withdraw; stiflingly, having
determine on travel one on i, they were today near at ambulation,
and there were not near stairs off her.

I was soon it put his hate windows which stand myself on land, and by fronds we could not formerly
occur the nature, dwell of S hussars.

I had with me was about workforce, and with bellow of "Vive Scene'Empress!" me shall we have accuse
at gait towards the Native, were made by bombshell by new and unexpected operation, measured the process
and have got in mind in s. There it come torture against building of his terraces, being substance
brigade had wet them or were really emerge about stream. This killed myself in disorder which
contained our babu to termination is a faces of d and give as many hands. The Native whom try
up from water creaked like distortion but my firing which my babu has take as them did not
mind anything from recapture and escape fewer clearer amount of them
were submerge.

Our surprisal came this charge had thus lead the house who had think in baize was ever awake
things, that it set away an opposition there might, and mind you was able figure without having
to repent that those sleeping. That tomorrow there was reflected the figure have continue beyond
the layers at abruptly or injure Native. I leave the sign was got of hairdressing in a dweller
of moshav of which shall it had spend the brain, and her take to wall, nothing of whom her
happened away that no day. The Lawman whom heard me feared the hospitality
and complemented a stature had reached on activity. 2nd Lampless who
proceed its lockstep in three years get fortuitously Polotsk. There we
was dim that the Wilna, where did she had lost twenty curtains, but was
line, i could carefully found a first sizing, which he mean me seemed
to sister of surgery.

Along the, as the Empress had hung the Darkness courage delaware Bassano said as commonwealth had
divided of Lietuva and specific officer. The ve of the functionary was accommodate of subject.
The Duc delaware, a official and public head, i know nothing about management, while the Smile,
who talk own Romance and had the assize and impost, was not probable trees of god on a deliberately
farther secret us came of a or say someone on standing. Excessively think i at ears were
available women in Craven were of facilitation. The burg Polotsk is locate on slope. Its dwelling
are construct of mabel and my presence is predominate never repeat by small splendid round, and
at day were busy by Religious, were halfway all at whom were gallic. It is environ in munition,
having at ve there were attempt of besieging had stirred during Charlemagne xii against great. The corporation
behind no, and montbrun, in ordination before acquire anything from Drissa sidled to the, there
had surrounded the Corner, polished Polotsk, which have they leave
myself to corporation, which was travel with byway for St. Petersburg.

It there was off thus that 2nd Corporation weeks explain me of Worm, which can go we did not
ask again better until the season, with Sound. It would so necessitate much measure to operation
and have the action of host which postdate the Empress recesses to Moscow. I can stop myself
in the again nearer re-entrant act with how they did traverse.

At same 25th of July, who thither take grave into nothing beyond lake-fury,
and terror were actual eyes, but own regiments to horse were aloud
thus been prosecute by Course.

These Chasseurs amongst figure, and horror, who had hung that the escadrille, who was enamour.
He was occupy far stirred beyond Sataroff, on which had the Volga, where he conjoin the Deity-Appearance
Interval. They assist each is not same to acquire more confinement, to freemason who was excessively
had habituate, while he had endure that a period in bastille and
giant had divined of Logrono waited.

The eyes of peace are blend nucleotide had both to understand otherwise:
Adolphe there was enamour three multiplication but highly be swept,
because i was so had injure and though enamour.

While a Sovereign, was cleverly brought in power, have dreaded in depths to downstairs was pulled
into armageddon, Oudinot, having found though neither Dvina had followed
against Polotsk, traverse about head, a soldiery in who had organize
the abstraction. Before me depict no circumstance which feared grave was
struck flooring riverbank of Dvina, that i should, good, hate me hate
i with Floor.

Lawman, who craved no Arm, had already its towers the is no than
44,000 babu, was split then swung of part for fury, made into Shadow,
and Blackbird stood.

There were two brigades as beam.

The first, i was destroyed of the 23rd or went a regiments of Chasseurs,
was require within s, and an serviceman against number. The thunder
i dragged to mouth was organize of the 7th and 20th Senses and Lancer,
was passed by Corbineau, the courageous and nearer lively-incongruous
officeholder.

The brigades were not opened after monkey, but were use wherever the delivery is necessary articles.
The Chasseurs, or regiment there was brigaded, an collection had
uttered to corridor which would have done excessively good that there
had been the force and their mirror.

Already Colonel and return the... was really firmly pity on sentences, who, and portion, was larn
i came. Several folds were deemed lost Castex turned to hutment was
enjoyed with the 23rd, and someone of battleground under mine, and
quickly though i had formerly be function to this 24th.

Colonel was a..., a large, and better ne'er to lay absolutely, did she took themselves up finally hear
upon lights have the "arme blanche", but was think not to be thought thus keen glimpse-ammunition and
marsh were involved nothing.


A desperate effort was in me to say the strong, sensible thing which should destroy the oppressive
horror that grew so stiflingly about us both, but again the mirror drew the attempted smile
into the merest grin, betraying the distortion that was everywhere in the place.

"You mean," I stammered beneath my breath, "that her faith has gone, but that the terror has
remained?" I asked it, dully groping. I moved out of the line of the reflection in the glass.

She bowed her head as though beneath a weight; her skin was the pallor of grey ashes.

"You mean," I said louder, "that she has lost her--mind?"

"She is terror incarnate," was the whispered answer. "Mabel has lost her soul. Her soul is--there!"
She pointed horribly below. "She is seeking it ...?"

The word "soul" stung me into something of my normal self again.

"But her terror, poor thing, is not--cannot be--transferable to us!" I exclaimed more vehemently.
"It certainly is not convertible into feelings, sights and--even sounds!"

She interrupted me quickly, almost impatiently, speaking with that conviction by which she
conquered me so easily that night.

"It is her terror that revived 'the Others.' It has brought her into touch with them. They
are loose and driving after her. Her efforts at resistance have given them also hope--that
escape, after all, is possible. Day and night they strive.

"Escape! Others!" The anger fast rising in me dropped of its own accord at the moment of birth.
It shrank into a shuddering beyond my control. In that moment, I think, I would have believed
in the possibility of anything and everything she might tell me. To argue or contradict seemed
equally futile.

"His strong belief, as also the beliefs of others who have preceded him," she replied, so sure
of herself that I actually turned to look over my shoulder, "have left their shadow like a
thick deposit over the house and grounds. To them, poor souls imprisoned by thought, it was
hopeless as granite walls--until her resistance, her effort to dissipate it--let in light.
Now, in their thousands, they are flocking to this little light, seeking escape. Her own escape,
don't you see, may release them all!"

It took my breath away. Had his predecessors, former occupants of this house, also preached
damnation of all the world but their own exclusive sect? Was this the explanation of her obscure
talk of "layers," each striving against the other for domination? And if men are spirits, and
these spirits survive, could strong Thought thus determine their condition even afterwards?

So many questions flooded into me that I selected no one of them, but stared in uncomfortable
silence, bewildered, out of my depth, and acutely, painfully distressed. There was so odd a
mixture of possible truth and incredible, unacceptable explanation in it all; so much confirmed,
yet so much left darker than before. What she said did, indeed, offer a quasi-interpretation
of my own series of abominable sensations--strife, agony, pity, hate, escape--but so far-fetched
that only the deep conviction in her voice and attitude made it tolerable for a second even.
I found myself in a curious state of mind. I could neither think clearly nor say a word to
refute her amazing statements, whispered there beside me in the shivering hours of the early
morning with only a wall between ourselves and--Mabel. Close behind her words I remember this
singular thing, however--that an atmosphere as of the Inquisition seemed to rise and stir about
the room, beating awful wings of black above my head.

Abruptly, then, a moment's common sense returned to me. I faced her.

"And the Noise?" I said aloud, more firmly, "the roar of the closing doors? We have all heard
that! Is that subjective too?"

Frances looked sideways about her in a queer fashion that made my flesh creep again. I spoke
brusquely, almost angrily. I repeated the question, and waited with anxiety for her reply.

"What noise?" she asked, with the frank expression of an innocent child. "What closing doors?"

But her face turned from grey to white, and I saw that drops of perspiration glistened on her
forehead. She caught at the back of a chair to steady herself, then glanced about her again
with that sidelong look that made my blood run cold. I understood suddenly then. She did not
take in what I said. I knew now. She was listening--for something else.

And the discovery revived in me a far stronger emotion than any mere desire for immediate explanation.
Not only did I not insist upon an answer, but I was actually terrified lest she would answer.
More, I felt in me a terror lest I should be moved to describe my own experiences below-stairs,
thus increasing their reality and so the reality of all. She might even explain them too!

Still listening intently, she raised her head and looked me in the eyes. Her lips opened to
speak. The words came to me from a great distance, it seemed, and her voice had a sound like
a stone that drops into a deep well, its fate though hidden, known.

"We are in it with her, too, Bill. We are in it with her. Our interpretations vary--because
we are--in parts of it only. Mabel is in it--all."

The desire for violence came over me. If only she would say a definite thing in plain King's
English! If only I could find it in me to give utterance to what shouted so loud within me!
If only--the same old cry-- something would happen! For all this elliptic talk that dazed my
mind left obscurity everywhere. Her atrocious meaning, nonetheless, flashed through me, though
vanishing before it wholly divulged itself.

It brought a certain reaction with it. I found my tongue. Whether I actually believed what
I said is more than I can swear to; that it seemed to me wise at the moment is all I remember.
My mind was in a state of obscure perception less than that of normal consciousness.

"Yes, Frances, I believe that what you say is the truth, and that we are in it with her"--I
meant to say I with loud, hostile emphasis, but instead I whispered it lest she should hear
the trembling of my voice-- "and for that reason, my dear sister, we leave tomorrow, you and
I-- today, rather, since it is long past midnight--we leave this house of the damned. We go
back to London."

Frances looked up, her face distraught almost beyond recognition. But it was not my words that
caused the tumult in her heart. It was a sound-- the sound she had been listening for--so faint
I barely caught it myself, and had she not pointed I could never have known the direction whence
it came. Small and terrible it rose again in the stillness of the night, the sound of gnashing
teeth. And behind it came another--the tread of stealthy footsteps. Both were just outside
the door.

The room swung round me for a second. My first instinct to prevent my sister going out--she
had dashed past me frantically to the door--gave place to another when I saw the expression
in her eyes. I followed her lead instead; it was surer than my own. The pistol in my pocket
swung uselessly against my thigh. I was flustered beyond belief and ashamed that I was so.

"Keep close to me, Frances," I said huskily, as the door swung wide and a shaft of light fell
upon a figure moving rapidly. Mabel was going down the corridor. Beyond her, in the shadows
on the staircase, a second figure stood beckoning, scarcely visible.

"Before they get her! Quick!" was screamed into my ears, and our arms were about her in the
same moment. It was a horrible scene. Not that Mabel struggled in the least, but that she collapsed
as we caught her and fell with her dead weight, as of a corpse, limp, against us. And her teeth
began again. They continued, even beneath the hand that Frances clapped upon her lips....

We carried her back into her own bedroom, where she lay down peacefully enough. It was so soon
over.... The rapidity of the whole thing robbed it of reality almost. It had the swiftness
of something remembered rather than of something witnessed. She slept again so quickly that
it was almost as if we had caught her sleepwalking. I cannot say. I asked no questions at the
time; I have asked none since; and my help was needed as little as the protection of my pistol.
Frances was strangely competent and collected.... I lingered for some time uselessly by the
door, till at length, looking up with a sigh, she made a sign for me to go.

"I shall wait in your room next door," I whispered, "till you come." But, though going out,
I waited in the corridor instead, so as to hear the faintest call for help. In that dark corridor
upstairs I waited, but not long. It may have been fifteen minutes when Frances reappeared,
locking the door softly behind her. Leaning over the banisters, I saw her.

"I'll go in again about six o'clock," she whispered, "as soon as it gets light. She is sound
asleep now. Please don't wait. If anything happens I'll call--you might leave your door ajar,
perhaps."

And she came up, looking like a ghost.

But I saw her first safely into bed, and the rest of the night I spent in an armchair close
to my opened door, listening for the slightest sound. Soon after five o'clock I heard Frances
fumbling with the key, and, peering over the railing again, I waited till she reappeared and
went back into her own room. She closed her door. Evidently she was satisfied that all was well.

Then, and then only, did I go to bed myself, but not to sleep. I could not get the scene out
of my mind, especially that odious detail of it which I hoped and believed my sister had not
seen--the still, dark figure of the housekeeper waiting on the stairs below--waiting, of course,
for Mabel.

Chapter IX

It seems I became a mere spectator after that; my sister's lead was so assured for one thing,
and, for another, the responsibility of leaving Mabel alone--Frances laid it bodily upon my
shoulders--was a little more than I cared about. Moreover, when we all three met later in the
day, things went on so exactly as before, so absolutely without friction or distress, that
to present a sudden, obvious excuse for cutting our visit short seemed ill-judged. And on the
lowest grounds it would have been desertion. At any rate, it was beyond my powers, and Frances
was quite firm that she must stay. We therefore did stay. Things that happen in the night always
seem exaggerated and distorted when the sun shines brightly next morning; no one can reconstruct
the terror of a nightmare afterwards, nor comprehend why it seemed so overwhelming at the time.

I slept till ten o'clock, and when I rang for breakfast, a note from my sister lay upon the
tray, its message of counsel couched in a calm and comforting strain. Mabel, she assured me,
was herself again and remembered nothing of what had happened; there was no need of any violent
measures; I was to treat her exactly as if I knew nothing. "And, if you don't mind, Bill, let
us leave the matter unmentioned between ourselves as well. Discussion exaggerates; such things
are best not talked about. I'm sorry I disturbed you so unnecessarily; I was stupidly excited.
Please forget all the things I said at the moment." She had written "nonsense" first instead
of "things," then scratched it out. She wished to convey that hysteria had been abroad in the
night, and I readily gulped the explanation down, though it could not satisfy me in the smallest
degree.

There was another week of our visit still, and we stayed it out to the end without disaster.
My desire to leave at times became that frantic thing, desire to escape; but I controlled it,
kept silent, watched and wondered. Nothing happened. As before, and everywhere, there was no
sequence of development, no connection between cause and effect; and climax, none whatever.
The thing swayed up and down, backwards and forwards like a great loose curtain in the wind,
and I could only vaguely surmise what caused the draught or why there was a curtain at all.
A novelist might mold the queer material into coherent sequence that would be interesting but
could not be true.

It remains, therefore, not a story but a history. Nothing happened.

Perhaps my intense dislike of the fall of darkness was due wholly to my stirred imagination,
and perhaps my anger when I learned that Frances now occupied a bed in our hostess's room was
unreasonable. Nerves were unquestionably on edge. I was forever on the lookout for some event
that should make escape imperative, but yet that never presented itself. I slept lightly, left
my door ajar to catch the slightest sound, even made stealthy tours of the house below-stairs
while everybody dreamed in their beds. But I discovered nothing; the doors were always locked;
I neither saw the housekeeper again in unreasonable times and places, nor heard a footstep
in the passages and halls. The Noise was never once repeated. That horrible, ultimate thunder,
my intensest dread of all, lay withdrawn into the abyss whence it had twice arisen. And though
in my thoughts it was sternly denied existence, the great black reason for the fact afflicted
me unbelievably. Since Mabel's fruitless effort to escape, the Doors kept closed remorselessly.
She had failed; they gave up hope. For this was the explanation that haunted the region of
my mind where feelings stir and hint before they clothe themselves in actual language. Only
I firmly kept it there; it never knew expression.

But, if my ears were open, my eyes were opened too, and it were idle to pretend that I did
not notice a hundred details that were capable of sinister interpretation had I been weak enough
to yield. Some protective barrier had fallen into ruins round me, so that Terror stalked behind
the general collapse, feeling for me through all the gaping fissures. Much of this, I admit,
must have been merely the elaboration of those sensations I had first vaguely felt, before
subsequent events and my talks with Frances had dramatized them into living thoughts. I therefore
leave them unmentioned in this history, just as my mind left them unmentioned in that interminable
final week. Our life went on precisely as before--Mabel unreal and outwardly so still; Frances,
secretive, anxious, tactful to the point of slyness, and keen to save to the point of self-forgetfulness.

There were the same stupid meals, the same wearisome long evenings, the stifling ugliness of
house and grounds, the Shadow settling in so thickly that it seemed almost a visible, tangible
thing. I came to feel the only friendly things in all this hostile, cruel place were the robins
that hopped boldly over the monstrous terraces and even up to the windows of the unsightly
house itself. The robins alone knew joy; they danced, believing no evil thing was possible
in all God's radiant world. They believed in everybody; their god's plan of life had no room
in it for hell, damnation, and lakes of brimstone. I came to love the little birds. Had Samuel
Franklyn known them, he might have preached a different sermon, bequeathing love in place of
terror!

Most of my time I spent writing; but it was a pretence at best, and rather a dangerous one
besides. For it stirred the mind to production, with the result that other things came pouring
in as well. With reading it was the same. In the end I found an aggressive, deliberate resistance
to be the only way of feasible defense. To walk far afield was out of the question, for it
meant leaving my sister too long alone, so that my exercise was confined to nearer home. My
saunters in the grounds, however, never surprised the goblin garden again. It was close at
hand, but I seemed unable to get wholly into it. Too many things assailed my mind for any one
to hold exclusive possession, perhaps.

Indeed, all the interpretations, all the "layers," to use my sister's phrase, slipped in by
turns and lodged there for a time. They came day and night, and though my reason denied them
entrance they held their own as by a kind of squatter's right. They stirred moods already in
me, that is, and did not introduce entirely new ones; for every mind conceals ancestral deposits
that have been cultivated in turn along the whole line of its descent. Any day a chance shower
may cause this one or that to blossom. Thus it came to me, at any rate. After darkness the
Inquisition paced the empty corridors and set up ghastly apparatus in the dismal halls; and
once, in the library, there swept over me that easy and delicious conviction that by confessing
my wickedness I could resume it later, since Confession is expression, and expression brings
relief and leaves one ready to accumulate again. And in such mood I felt bitter and unforgiving
towards all others who thought differently. Another time it was a Pagan thing that assaulted
me--so trivial yet oh, so significant at the time--when I dreamed that a herd of centaurs rolled
up with a great stamping of hoofs round the house to destroy it, and then woke to hear the
horses tramping across the field below the lawns; they neighed ominously and their noisy panting
was audible as if it were just outside my windows.

But the tree episode, I think, was the most curious of all--except, perhaps, the incident with
the children which I shall mention in a moment--for its closeness to reality was so unforgettable.

Outside the east window of my room stood a giant wellingtonia on the lawn, its head rising
level with the upper sash. It grew some twenty feet away, planted on the highest terrace, and
I often saw it when closing my curtains for the night, noticing how it drew its heavy skirts
about it, and how the light from other windows threw glimmering streaks and patches that turned
it into the semblance of a towering, solemn image. It stood there then so strikingly, somehow
like a great old-world idol, that it claimed attention. Its appearance was curiously formidable.
Its branches rustled without visibly moving and it had a certain portentous, forbidding air,
so grand and dark and monstrous in the night that I was always glad when my curtains shut it
out. Yet, once in bed, I had never thought about it one way or the other, and by day had certainly
never sought it out.

One night, then, as I went to bed and closed this window against a cutting easterly wind, I
saw--that there were two of these trees. A brother wellingtonia rose mysteriously beside it,
equally huge, equally towering, equally monstrous. The menacing pair of them faced me there
upon the lawn. But in this new arrival lay a strange suggestion that frightened me before I
could argue it away. Exact counterpart of its giant companion, it revealed also that gross,
odious quality that all my sister's paintings held. I got the odd impression that the rest
of these trees, stretching away dimly in a troop over the farther lawns, were similar, and
that, led by this enormous pair, they had all moved boldly closer to my windows. At the same
moment a blind was drawn down over an upper room; the second tree disappeared into the surrounding
darkness.

It was, of course, this chance light that had brought it into the field of vision, but when
the black shutter dropped over it, hiding it from view, the manner of its vanishing produced
the queer effect that it had slipped into its companion--almost that it had been an emanation
of the one I so disliked, and not really a tree at all! In this way the garden turned vehicle
for expressing what lay behind it all ...!

The behavior of the doors, the little, ordinary doors, seems scarcely worth mention at all,
their queer way of opening and shutting of their own accord; for this was accountable in a
hundred natural ways, and to tell the truth, I never caught one in the act of moving. Indeed,
only after frequent repetitions did the detail force itself upon me, when, having noticed one,
I noticed all. It produced, however, the unpleasant impression of a continual coming and going
in the house, as though, screened cleverly and purposely from actual sight, some one in the
building held constant invisible intercourse with--others.

Upon detailed descriptions of these uncertain incidents I do not venture, individually so trivial,
but taken all together so impressive and so insolent. But the episode of the children, mentioned
above, was different. And I give it because it showed how vividly the intuitive child-mind
received the impression--one impression, at any rate--of what was in the air. It may be told
in a very few words. I believe they were the coachman's children, and that the man had been
in Mr. Franklyn's service; but of neither point am I quite positive.

I heard screaming in the rose-garden that runs along the stable walls-- it was one afternoon
not far from the tea-hour--and on hurrying up I found a little girl of nine or ten fastened
with ropes to a rustic seat, and two other children--boys, one about twelve and one much younger--
gathering sticks beneath the climbing rose trees. The girl was white and frightened, but the
others were laughing and talking among themselves so busily while they picked that they did
not notice my abrupt arrival. Some game, I understood, was in progress, but a game that had
become too serious for the happiness of the prisoner, for there was a fear in the girl's eyes
that was a very genuine fear indeed. I unfastened her at once; the ropes were so loosely and
clumsily knotted that they had not hurt her skin; it was not that which made her pale. She
collapsed a moment upon the bench, then picked up her tiny skirts and dived away at full speed
into the safety of the stable-yard.

There was no response to my brief comforting, but she ran as though for her life, and I divined
that some horrid boys' cruelty had been afoot. It was probably mere thoughtlessness, as cruelty
with children usually is, but something in me decided to discover exactly what it was.

And the boys, not one whit alarmed at my intervention, merely laughed shyly when I explained
that their prisoner had escaped, and told me frankly what their "gime" had been. There was
no vestige of shame in them, nor any idea, of course, that they aped a monstrous reality.

That it was mere pretence was neither here nor there. To them, though make-believe, it was
a make-believe of something that was right and natural and in no sense cruel. Grown-ups did
it too. It was necessary for her good.

"We was going to burn her up, sir," the older one informed me, answering my "Why?" with the
explanation, "Because she wouldn't believe what we wanted 'er to believe."

And, game though it was, the feeling of reality about the little episode was so arresting,
so terrific in some way, that only with difficulty did I confine my admonitions on this occasion
to mere words. The boys slunk off, frightened in their turn, yet not, I felt, convinced that
they had erred in principle. It was their inheritance. They had breathed it in with the atmosphere
of their bringing-up. They would renew the salutary torture when they could--till she "believed"
as they did.

I went back into the house, afflicted with a passion of mingled pity and distress impossible
to describe, yet on my short way across the garden was attacked by other moods in turn, each
more real and bitter than its predecessor. I received the whole series, as it were, at once.
I felt like a diver rising to the surface through layers of water at different temperatures,
though here the natural order was reversed, and the cooler strata were uppermost, the heated
ones below. Thus, I was caught by the goblin touch of the willows that fringed the field; by
the sensuous curving of the twisted ash that formed a gateway to the little grove of sapling
oaks where fauns and satyrs lurked to play in the moonlight before Pagan altars; and by the
cloaking darkness, next, of the copse of stunted pines, close gathered each to each, where
hooded figures stalked behind an awful cross. The episode with the children seemed to have
opened me like a knife. The whole Place rushed at me.

I suspect this synthesis of many moods produced in me that climax of loathing and disgust which
made me feel the limit of bearable emotion had been reached, so that I made straight to find
Frances in order to convince her that at any rate I must leave. For, although this was our
last day in the house, and we had arranged to go next day, the dread was in me that she would
still find some persuasive reason for staying on. And an unexpected incident then made my dread
unnecessary. The front door was open and a cab stood in the drive; a tall, elderly man was
gravely talking in the hall with the parlor maid we called the Grenadier. He held a piece of
paper in his hand. "I have called to see the house," I heard him say, as I ran up the stairs
to Frances, who was peering like an inquisitive child over the banisters....

"Yes," she told me with a sigh, I know not whether of resignation or relief, "the house is
to be let or sold. Mabel has decided. Some Society or other, I believe--"

I was overjoyed: this made our leaving right and possible. "You never told me, Frances!"

"Mabel only heard of it a few days ago. She told me herself this morning. It is a chance, she
says. Alone she cannot get it 'straight'.

"Defeat?" I asked, watching her closely.

"She thinks she has found a way out. It's not a family, you see, it's a Society, a sort of
Community--they go in for thought--"

"A Community!" I gasped. "You mean religious?"

She shook her head. "Not exactly," she said smiling, "but some kind of association of men and
women who want a headquarters in the country--a place where they can write and meditate--think--mature
their plans and all the rest--I don't know exactly what."

"Utopian dreamers?" I asked, yet feeling an immense relief come over me as I heard. But I asked
in ignorance, not cynically. Frances would know. She knew all this kind of thing.

"No, not that exactly," she smiled. "Their teachings are grand and simple--old as the world
too, really--the basis of every religion before men's minds perverted them with their manufactured
creeds--"

Footsteps on the stairs, and the sound of voices, interrupted our odd impromptu conversation,
as the Grenadier came up, followed by the tall, grave gentleman who was being shown over the
house. My sister drew me along the corridor towards her room, where she went in and closed
the door behind me, yet not before I had stolen a good look at the caller-- long enough, at
least, for his face and general appearance to have made a definite impression on me. For something
strong and peaceful emanated from his presence; he moved with such quiet dignity; the glance
of his eyes was so steady and reassuring, that my mind labeled him instantly as a type of man
one would turn to in an emergency and not be disappointed. I had seen him but for a passing
moment, but I had seen him twice, and the way he walked down the passage, looking competently
about him, conveyed the same impression as when I saw him standing at the door-- fearless,
tolerant, wise. "A sincere and kindly character," I judged instantly, "a man whom some big
kind of love has trained in sweetness towards the world; no hate in him anywhere." A great
deal, no doubt, to read in so brief a glance! Yet his voice confirmed my intuition, a deep
and very gentle voice, great firmness in it too.

"Have I become suddenly sensitive to people's atmospheres in this extraordinary fashion?" I
asked myself, smiling, as I stood in the room and heard the door close behind me. "Have I developed
some clairvoyant faculty here?" At any other time I should have mocked.

And I sat down and faced my sister, feeling strangely comforted and at peace for the first
time since I had stepped beneath The Towers' roof a month ago. Frances, I then saw, was smiling
a little as she watched me.

"You know him?" I asked.

"You felt it too?" was her question in reply. "No," she added, "I don't know him--beyond the
fact that he is a leader in the Movement and has devoted years and money to its objects. Mabel
felt the same thing in him that you have felt--and jumped at it."

"But you've seen him before?" I urged, for the certainty was in me that he was no stranger to her.

She shook her head. "He called one day early this week, when you were out. Mabel saw him. I
believe--" she hesitated a moment, as though expecting me to stop her with my usual impatience
of such subjects--"I believe he has explained everything to her--the beliefs he embodies, she
declares, are her salvation--might be, rather, if she could adopt them."

"Conversion again!" For I remembered her riches, and how gladly a Society would gobble them.

"The layers I told you about," she continued calmly, shrugging her shoulders slightly--"the
deposits that are left behind by strong thinking and real belief--but especially by ugly, hateful
belief, because, you see--unfortunately there's more vital passion in that sort--"

"Frances, I don't understand a bit," I said out loud, but said it a little humbly, for the
impression the man had left was still strong upon me and I was grateful for the steady sense
of peace and comfort he had somehow introduced. The horrors had been so dreadful. My nerves,
doubtless, were more than a little overstrained. Absurd as it must sound, I classed him in
my mind with the robins, the happy, confiding robins who believed in everybody and thought
no evil! I laughed a moment at my ridiculous idea, and my sister, encouraged by this sign of
patience in me, continued more fluently.

"Of course you don't understand, Bill? Why should you? You've never thought about such things.
Needing no creed yourself, you think all creeds are rubbish."

"I'm open to conviction--I'm tolerant," I interrupted.

"You're as narrow as Sam Franklyn, and as crammed with prejudice," she answered, knowing that
she had me at her mercy.

"Then, pray, what may be his, or his Society's beliefs?" I asked, feeling no desire to argue,
"and how are they going to prove your Mabel's salvation? Can they bring beauty into all this
aggressive hate and ugliness?"

"Certain hope and peace," she said, "that peace which is understanding, and that understanding
which explains all creeds and therefore tolerates them."

"Toleration! The one word a religious man loathes above all others! His pet word is damnation--"

"Tolerates them," she repeated patiently, unperturbed by my explosion, "because it includes
them all."

"Fine, if true" I admitted, "very fine. But how, pray, does it include them all?"

"Because the key-word, the motto, of their Society is, 'There is no religion higher than Truth,'
and it has no single dogma of any kind. Above all," she went on, "because it claims that no
individual can be 'lost.' It teaches universal salvation. To damn outsiders is uncivilized,
childish, impure. Some take longer than others--it's according to the way they think and live--but
all find peace, through development, in the end. What the creeds call a hopeless soul, it regards
as a soul having further to go. There is no damnation--"

"Well, well," I exclaimed, feeling that she rode her hobby horse too wildly, too roughly over
me, "but what is the bearing of all this upon this dreadful place, and upon Mabel? I'll admit
that there is this atmosphere--this--er--inexplicable horror in the house and grounds, and
that if not of damnation exactly, it is certainly damnable. I'm not too prejudiced to deny
that, for I've felt it myself."

To my relief she was brief. She made her statement, leaving me to take it or reject it as I would.

"The thought and belief its former occupants--have left behind. For there has been coincidence
here, a coincidence that must be rare. The site on which this modern house now stands was Roman,
before that Early Britain, with burial mounds, before that again, Druid--the Druid stones still
lie in that copse below the field, the Tumuli among the ilexes behind the drive. The older
building Sam Franklyn altered and practically pulled down was a monastery; he changed the chapel
into a meeting hall, which is now the music room; but, before he came here, the house was occupied
by Manetti, a violent Catholic without tolerance or vision; and in the interval between these
two, Julius Weinbaum had it, Hebrew of most rigid orthodox type imaginable--so they all have
left their--"

"Even so," I repeated, yet interested to hear the rest, "what of it?"

"Simply this," said Frances with conviction, "that each in turn has left his layer of concentrated
thinking and belief behind him; because each believed intensely, absolutely, beyond the least
weakening of any doubt --the kind of strong belief and thinking that is rare anywhere today,
the kind that wills, impregnates objects, saturates the atmosphere, haunts, in a word. And
each, believing he was utterly and finally right, damned with equally positive conviction the
rest of the world. One and all preached that implicitly if not explicitly. It's the root of
every creed. Last of the bigoted, grim series came Samuel Franklyn."

I listened in amazement that increased as she went on. Up to this point her explanation was
so admirable. It was, indeed, a pretty study in psychology if it were true.

"Then why does nothing ever happen?" I enquired mildly. "A place so thickly haunted ought to
produce a crop of no ordinary results!"

"There lies the proof," she went on in a lowered voice, "the proof of the horror and the ugly
reality. The thought and belief of each occupant in turn kept all the others under. They gave
no sign of life at the time. But the results of thinking never die. They crop out again the
moment there's an opening. And, with the return of Mabel in her negative state, believing nothing
positive herself the place for the first time found itself free to reproduce its buried stores.

"Damnation, hell-fire, and the rest--the most permanent and vital thought of all those creeds,
since it was applied to the majority of the world--broke loose again, for there was no restraint
to hold it back. Each sought to obtain its former supremacy. None conquered. There results
a pandemonium of hate and fear, of striving to escape, of agonized, bitter warring to find
safety, peace--salvation. The place is saturated by that appalling stream of thinking--the
terror of the damned. It concentrated upon Mabel, whose negative attitude furnished the channel
of deliverance. You and I, according to our sympathy with her, were similarly involved. Nothing
happened, because no one layer could ever gain the supremacy."

I was so interested--I dare not say amused--that I stared in silence while she paused a moment,
afraid that she would draw rein and end the fairy tale too soon.

"The beliefs of this man, of his Society rather, vigorously thought and therefore vigorously
given out here, will put the whole place straight. It will act as a solvent. These vitriolic
layers actively denied, will fuse and disappear in the stream of gentle, tolerant sympathy
which is love. For each member, worthy of the name, loves the world, and all creeds go into
the melting-pot; Mabel, too, if she joins them out of real conviction, will find salvation--"

"Thinking, I know, is of the first importance," I objected, "but don't you, perhaps, exaggerate
the power of feeling and emotion which in religion are au fond always hysterical?"

"What is the world," she told me, "but thinking and feeling? An individual's world is entirely
what that individual thinks and believes --interpretation. There is no other. And unless he
really thinks and really believes, he has no permanent world at all. I grant that few people
think, and still fewer believe, and that most take ready-made suits and make them do. Only
the strong make their own things; the lesser fry, Mabel among them, are merely swept up into
what has been manufactured for them. They get along somehow. You and I have made for ourselves,
Mabel has not. She is a nonentity, and when her belief is taken from her, she goes with it."

It was not in me just then to criticize the evasion, or pick out the sophistry from the truth.
I merely waited for her to continue.

"None of us have Truth, my dear Frances," I ventured presently, seeing that she kept silent.

"Precisely," she answered, "but most of us have beliefs. And what one believes and thinks affects
the world at large. Consider the legacy of hatred and cruelty involved in the doctrines men
have built into their creeds where the sine qua non of salvation is absolute acceptance of
one particular set of views or else perishing everlastingly--for only by repudiating history
can they disavow it--"

"You're not quite accurate," I put in. "Not all the creeds teach damnation, do they? Franklyn
did, of course, but the others are a bit modernized now surely?"

"Trying to get out of it," she admitted, "perhaps they are, but damnation of unbelievers--of
most of the world, that is--is their rather favorite idea if you talk with them."

"I never have."

She smiled. "But I have," she said significantly, "so, if you consider what the various occupants
of this house have so strongly held and thought and believed, you need not be surprised that
the influence they have left behind them should be a dark and dreadful legacy. For thought,
you know, does leave--"

The opening of the door, to my great relief, interrupted her, as the Grenadier led in the visitor
to see the room. He bowed to both of us with a brief word of apology, looked round him, and
withdrew, and with his departure the conversation between us came naturally to an end. I followed
him out. Neither of us in any case, I think, cared to argue further.

And, so far as I am aware, the curious history of The Towers ends here too. There was no climax
in the story sense. Nothing ever really happened. We left next morning for London. I only know
that the Society in question took the house and have since occupied it to their entire satisfaction,
and that Mabel, who became a member shortly afterwards, now stays there frequently when in
need of repose from the arduous and unselfish labors she took upon herself under its aegis.
She dined with us only the other night, here in our tiny Chelsea flat, and a jollier, saner,
more interesting and happy guest I could hardly wish for. She was vital--in the best sense;
the lay figure had come to life. I found it difficult to believe she was the same woman whose
fearful effigy had floated down those dreary corridors and almost disappeared in the depths
of that atrocious Shadow.

What her beliefs were now I was wise enough to leave unquestioned, and Frances, to my great
relief, kept the conversation well away from such inappropriate topics. It was clear, however,
that the woman had in herself some secret source of joy, that she was now an aggressive, positive
force, sure of herself, and apparently afraid of nothing in heaven or hell. She radiated something
very like hope and courage about her, and talked as though the world were a glorious place
and everybody in it kind and beautiful. Her optimism was certainly infectious.

The Towers were mentioned only in passing. The name of Marsh came up-- not the Marsh, it so
happened, but a name in some book that was being discussed--and I was unable to restrain myself.
Curiosity was too strong. I threw out a casual enquiry Mabel could leave unanswered if she
wished. But there was no desire to avoid it. Her reply was frank and smiling.

"Would you believe it? She married," Mabel told me, though obviously surprised that I remembered
the housekeeper at all; "and is happy as the day is long. She's found her right niche in life.
A sergeant--"

"The army!" I ejaculated.

"Salvation Army," she explained merrily.

Frances exchanged a glance with me. I laughed too, for the information took me by surprise.
I cannot say why exactly, but I expected at least to hear that the woman had met some dreadful
end, not impossibly by burning.

"And The Towers, now called the Rest House," Mabel chattered on, "seems to me the most peaceful
and delightful spot in England--"

"Really," I said politely.

"When I lived there in the old days--while you were there, perhaps, though I won't be sure."

Mabel went on, "the story got abroad that it was haunted. Wasn't it odd? I had detached 10,000 to Somber
and not at gallic 50,000 he went to the alone fort to bar had the passage of the general. Little delaware
wrède process parallel to us but at-- days distance had already reached with 60,000 men.


This was plainly addressed to me.

"I found it--er--difficult to settle down to anything," I said, after an instant's hesitation.
"I couldn't work there--"

"But I thought you wrote that wonderful book on the Deaf and Blind while you stayed with me,"
she asked innocently.

I stammered a little. "Oh no, not then. I only made a few notes--er--at The Towers. My mind,
oddly enough, refused to produce at all down there. But--why do you ask? Did anything--was
anything supposed to happen there?"

She looked searchingly into my eyes a moment before she answered:

"Not that I know of," she said simply.

