Some persons were repelled by what they considered Mrs. Stevenson's cold and distant manner,
but they were not aware of what it took her own family a long time to discover--that this apparent
detachment and sphinxlike immobility covered a real and childlike shyness; yet it was never
apathy, but the stillness of a frightened wild creature that has never been tamed. Though she
said so little, she never failed to create an impression. Some one once said of her that her
silence was more fascinating than the most brilliant conversation of other women, and, indeed,
"Where Macgregor sits is the head of the table" applied very aptly to her. Her manner had nothing
of the aggressive self-confidence of the "capable woman." She seemed so essentially feminine,
low-voiced, quiet, even helplessly appealing, that it was difficult to realize that she was
a fair shot, a fearless horsewoman, a first-rate cook, an expert seamstress, a really scientific
gardener, a most skillful nurse, and had, besides, some working acquaintance with many trades
and professions upon which she could draw in an emergency.

Her physical courage was remarkable; she would get on any horse, jump into a boat in any sea,
face a burglar--do anything, in fact, that circumstances seemed to require. But perhaps her
moral courage, that which gave her strength to face great crises--as when Louis was near death--with
a smile on her face, was even greater. This I know came to her as a direct inheritance from
our mother, Esther Van de Grift, who was never known to give way under the stress of great need.

In her fondness for animals she reminds one of her maternal ancestress, Elizabeth Knodle, who
used to rush out and seize horses by the bridle when she thought they were being driven too
fast by their cruel drivers. Nothing would more surely arouse her anger than the sight of any
unkindness to one of these "little brothers." Once at Vailima a gentleman, who ought to have
known better, came riding up on a horse that showed signs of being in pain. "That horse has
a sore back," she cried. The rider angrily denied it, but she insisted on his dismounting,
and when the saddle was removed found that her suspicions were but too well founded. She compelled
him to leave the suffering creature in her care until its back was entirely cured.

I have been surprised sometimes to hear people speak of her as "bohemian." Simplicity and genuineness
were the foundation-stones of her character, and she certainly dispensed with many of the useless
conventions of society, but she was a serious-minded woman for whom the cheap affectations
generally labelled as "bohemianism" could have no attractions.

She was entirely feminine in her love of pretty clothes. In choosing her own attire, though
she followed the fashions and never tried to be extravagant or outré, she had a discriminating
taste that made her always seem to be dressed more attractively than other people. All who
think of her, even in her last days, must have a picture in their minds of the dainty, lacy,
silken prettiness in which she sat enshrined.

She was pretty as a young woman, but as she grew older she was beautiful--with that rare type
of beauty that "age cannot wither nor custom stale." With her clear-cut profile, like an exquisite
cameo, color like old ivory, delicate oval face, eyes dark, vivid, and youthful, her appearance
was most unusual. Louis used to say of her eyes that her glance was like that of one aiming
a pistol--direct, steady, and to some persons rather alarming. Her voice, as I think I have
said somewhere else in these pages, was low, with few inflections, and was compared by her
husband to the murmur of a brook running under ice. The poet Gosse said of her: "She is dark
and rich-hearted, like some wonderful wine-red jewel."

For years she had worn her hair short, not in the fashion of a strong-minded female, but in
a frame of soft grey curls which was exceedingly becoming to her face.

Everywhere she went her appearance attracted attention. One evening at Santa Barbara when David
Bispham was giving a concert, she sat in a box at the theatre, wearing a bandeau of pearls
and diamonds round her head and a collar and necklace of the same. Leaning over the edge of
the box, deeply interested in the singing, she didn't realize the impression she was making
or the fact that Bispham was singing "Oh, the pretty, pretty creature" directly at her box.
Suddenly she became aware of his compliment, gave a startled, embarrassed look at the audience,
and retired behind her big ostrich-feather fan. People often turned to look at her in the street,
and at such times she would say to her companions: "Is there anything wrong with my hat? The
people all seem to be smiling at me." They were, but it was with surprised admiration. Saleswomen
and shop-girls adored her, and at all the shops they vied with each other in waiting on her.
On the way home she would say, with naïve surprise: "How nice all those young women were! There
were five of them all waiting on me at once."

One of her vanities was her small feet, on which she always wore the daintiest of shoes, often
totally unsuited to the occasion. Whenever I looked at her feet I was reminded of our maternal
grandmother, sweet Kitty Weaver, and how she caught her death going to a ball in the red satin
slippers.

Her beauty was of the elusive type that is the despair of artists, and of all the portraits
painted of her none seemed to me to represent her true self. I quote from The Craftsman of
May, 1912, a reference to a reproduction of the portrait painted of her by Mrs. Will Low:

"We are sure that our readers the world over will enjoy the opportunity of this glimpse of
Mrs. Stevenson, however the limitations imposed by black and white may prevent a full realization
of the great charm of this unusual woman, whose personality is so magnetic, so serene in its
poise, so richly intellectual, that those who have had the opportunity of knowing her always
remember her as one of the most interesting and beautiful among women."

She kept her spirit young to the last, so that no one could ever think of her as an old woman,
and young people always enjoyed her company.

As to her literary accomplishments, had she chosen to devote her time and strength to the development
of her own talents, instead of using them, as has been the wont of women since the world began,
in the support and encouragement of others, there is no saying how far she might have gone,
for she had an active, creative imagination, and a discriminating, critical judgment of style.
As it was, her writings were not extensive, and were almost all produced under the spur of
some particular need. They consist of:

Several fairy stories published years ago in Our Young Folks and St. Nicholas, magazines for
young people.

The Dynamiter, written in collaboration with her husband.

Introductions to her husband's works.

A number of short stories in Scribner's and McClure's magazines, among which "Anne" and "The
Half-White" attracted the most attention.

The Cruise of the Janet Nichol, a posthumous work.

Her own estimate of her talents and achievements was extremely modest, and it was always with
the greatest reluctance that she put pen to paper. Yet she was intensely proud of the work
of any member of her family--whether it might be sister, daughter, son, nephew, or grandson--and
seemed to get more happiness out of anything we did than from her own work.

She was appalled at the great flood of mediocre writing that has been pouring over the United
States in the last decade or two, and speaks of it thus in a letter written to Mr. Scribner
from her quiet haven at Sausal:

"If I had a magazine of my own I should bar from its pages any story in which a young woman
urges a young man to 'do things' when he doesn't have to. There would also be a list of words
and phrases that I would not have within my covers. But, if I had a magazine what would become
of my peace and quiet that I care so much for? No--no such strenuous life for me! They may
call houses 'homes' and spell words so that children and foreigners must be unable to find
out how to pronounce them--I need not know of such annoyances in El Sausal unless I choose.
I have before me a great pile of magazines--hence these cries. I read them with wonder and
interest. There seems to be such an extraordinary quantity of clever, talented, ignorant, unliterary
literature let loose in them. Where does it all come from? And why isn't it better done--or
worse done? I suppose we might call it 'near literature.' Sometimes, indeed, it is very near.
I suppose it is the public school system that is accountable. Well, I never believed in general
education, and here's a justification of my attitude."

When one casts a backward glance over the life of Fanny Van de Grift Stevenson, it cannot be
said that she knew much of that for which she had always longed--peace. Her girlhood was cut
short by a too early marriage. Her first romance was soon wrecked, and her second was constantly
overshadowed by fear for the loved one. Storm and stress, varied by some peaceful intervals,
filled the larger portion of her days, and at their end it was in storm and flood that her
spirit took its flight. But it was a full, rich life, and had she had the choosing, I believe
she would have elected no other.

       *       *       *       *       *

After something more than a year had elapsed from the time of her death, Mrs. Stevenson's daughter,
who had now become the wife of Mr. Field, sailed with her husband in the spring of 1915 for
Samoa, bearing with them the sacred ashes to be placed within the tomb on Mount Vaea.

Early in the war the New Zealand Expeditionary Forces had taken possession of German Samoa,
so that when Mr. and Mrs. Field arrived they found the Union Jack flying over Vailima, now
used as Government House by the Administrator, Colonel Logan, and his staff. The natives, interested
spectators of these stirring events, remarked among themselves that Tusitala, not going back
to his own country, had drawn his country out to him.

Two friends of the old Vailima days were a great help in making the arrangements for the funeral--Amatua,
often referred to in the Stevenson letters as Sitione, now a serious elderly chief, and Laulii,
a charming Samoan lady of rank, and a warm and attached friend of the Stevenson family. Of
the Vailima household time and wars had eliminated all but the youngest--Mitaele, who looked
much the same in spite of grey hair and a family of nine children.

It was Amatua who saw to it that those who remained of the builders of the "Road of the Loving
Hearts" and the chiefs who had cut the path up the mountain for Tusitala's funeral were included
in the list of guests, and it was he who took personal charge of all the arrangements for the
native ceremonies, which were conducted in the elaborate Samoan fashion as for a chief of the
highest rank.

Colonel and Mrs. Logan very graciously invited the Fields to Vailima and placed the house and
grounds at their disposal.

"It is strange," wrote Mrs. Field, "being here at Vailima. I was so afraid to come, but mercifully
it is not the same. Rooms have been added, the polished redwood panels in the large hall are
painted over in white; the lawn where the tennis courts were is cut up into flower beds; many
of the great trees have gone; and the atmosphere of the place has changed so utterly that I
have to say to myself 'This is Vailima' to believe that I am here after so many years. Mrs.
Logan and the Governor came out to meet us when we arrived, and as we turned into the road
and I saw the house for the first time it was the Union Jack flying from the flag-staff that
affected me most. I felt like a person in a dream as we walked over the house--the same and
yet changed out of all recognition. We had tea, and then in the soft sunset we went down to
the waterfall, no longer a fairy dell of loveliness but improved with a dam, cement flooring,
and a row of neat bathrooms. In the evening we sat on the upper veranda looking out over the
moonlit tree-tops; the scene was very beautiful, with the view of the sea and Vaea mountain
so green and so close. 'Here we wrote St. Ives and Hermiston,' I tell myself, but I don't believe
it."

It had been their intention to have their old missionary friend, Dr. Brown, conduct the services,
but at the last moment word was brought that he was detained on one of the other islands by
storms. For a time they were much troubled, but at last Colonel Logan lifted a load off their
hearts by offering to read the Church of England service himself.

The day before that set for the funeral, June 22, it blew and rained, and there was much anxious
foreboding about the weather. In the night, however, the wind blew away the clouds and rain,
and morning broke, still, sunny, but cool--a perfect day.

The small bronze case containing the ashes, wrapped in a fine mat, had been laid on a table
in one of the rooms that had wide doors opening on the veranda. The guests began to arrive
early, in Samoan fashion, bringing flowers and wreaths, and soon the table was a mass of lovely
blooms--all colours, for the Samoans do not adhere to white for funerals. The high chief Tamasese,
with his wife Vaaiga, both wearing mourning bands on their arms, were the first to arrive.
Then came Malietoa Tanu, who was a prominent figure in the war in which the United States and
England joined to fight against Samoa. Following them came a long concourse of the old friends
of Mr. and Mrs. Stevenson--natives, half-castes, and whites, and last of all, in a little carriage,
three sweet sisters from the Sacred Heart Convent. The sisters could not stay for the ceremony
on the hill, but begged to be allowed to say a little prayer, and the three knelt before the
table and said an ave for one who had always been their friend.

At nine o'clock they started on the steep climb up the mountain, the path having been cleared
the day before by men sent up through the thoughtful kindness of the Administrator. Mr. Field
led the way with the casket wrapped in a fine mat, then came Mrs. Field and Laulii, each carrying
one of the mats used in Samoan funeral ceremonies, these being the same that had been carried
at Mr. Stevenson's burial.

After them came Colonel Logan and the two high chiefs, Tamasese and Malietoa, followed by all
the other guests, including forty chiefs of the Tuamasaga. The procession, very picturesque
in white clothing and wreaths of flowers, wound slowly up the mountainside in a zigzag path
under the forest trees. Overhead the branches met in a leafy roof, and on each side of the
narrow path the jungle closed in, thick, lush, and green. The lianas looped across from bough
to bough, huge birds' nest ferns lay tucked in the branches, on all sides big-leaved plants,
fronds of ferns, and tangled creepers crowded each other for space, and through all the mass
of wild tropic growth the hot sunlight filtered in splashes of bright green.

When, after many breathless pauses, the top was at last reached, the case was laid on the base
of the tomb and covered with fine mats, with flowers all about it. Among them were the Japanese
imitation cherry-blossoms sent by Yonida and Fuzisaki, the gardeners at Stonehedge. The company
then gathered around the tomb in a semi-circle, and Colonel Logan read the Church of England
service. It was an impressive ceremony, and the hearts of all were deeply moved by it. Filemoni,
the Samoan pastor, followed with an eloquent speech in the native language.

The mats were then removed from the small space that had been cut into the base of the tomb,
and the little case was fitted in and cemented over. George Stowers, the original builder of
the tomb, was there, and his hand sealed the ashes in their last resting-place.

The ceremony now being over, the party went down the hill in little groups, resting by the
way on fallen logs. Crossing the river at the bottom, they came into the Loto Alofa Road (Road
of the Loving Hearts), where Amatua had made all the preparations for the funeral feast, which
was to be given according to Samoan custom. A long table-cloth, consisting of bright-green
breadfruit and banana leaves and ferns, stretched along the ground for sixty feet or more.
The feast was preceded by the ceremonious drinking of kava and speeches in Samoan. "I had expected
the usual somewhat flowery eulogies," wrote Mrs. Field, "but their speeches were sincere and
some of them very beautiful. They were translated by an interpreter, but fortunately my memory
of the language helped me to follow the meaning, even though some of the 'high chief' expressions
were beyond me. 'Many foreigners had visited Samoa,' they said, 'but of all who had professed
affection and admiration for the land only one loved it so well that he chose it for his last
resting-place. Tusitala had been the true friend, the dearly loved, the deeply mourned, and
now when the wife of his heart had joined him after many lonely years the occasion was one
too tender and too beautiful for sorrow.' They assured me that we might leave Samoa with peaceful
hearts, knowing that those we loved were in the land--not of strangers, but of devoted friends,
who would cherish the tomb on Vaea as they cherished in their hearts the memory of Tusitala
and Aolele."

Amatua then announced that the feast was ready, and the Governor and his wife were seated at
the head at one end of the long table, with Tamasese and Malietoa Tanu on either side. The
board, figuratively speaking, groaned under a great spread of native delicacies. It was full
noon by this time, and very hot, but Amatua had thoughtfully placed little trees all along
the side to keep off the sunshine. "At the end of the feast," says Mrs. Field, "I made a little
speech of thanks, and it came straight from my heart, for I was deeply touched by the kindness
of them all and their loyalty to the memory of my dear mother and Tusitala. We tried to thank
Colonel Logan and his wife, but words can never do that." The material was cement, run into
boxes and formed into large blocks, which were then carried to the summit on the strong shoulders
of Samoans, though each block was so heavy that two white men could scarcely lift it from the
ground. Arrived at the summit the blocks were then welded into a plain and dignified design,
with two large bronze tablets let in on either side. One bears the inscription in Samoan, "The
resting-place of Tusitala," followed by the quotation in the same language of "Thy country
shall be my country and thy God my God."

When Mr. and Mrs. Field arrived in Samoa they brought with them a tablet which they carried
to the summit of Mount Vaea and had cemented in one end of the base of the tomb.

On the tablet for Mr. Stevenson the thistle for Scotland had been carved at one corner and
the hibiscus for Samoa at the other. On his wife's the hibiscus was placed at one corner, and
after long hesitation about the other, a sudden inspiration suggested to Mrs. Field the tiger-lily--bright
flower whose name had been given to little Fanny Van de Grift by her mother in the old days
in Indiana.

