EARLY AUSTRALIAN VOYAGES BY JOHN PINKERTON

Contents:

Introduction Pelsart Tasman Dampier

INTRODUCTION.

In the days of Plato, imagination found its way, before the mariners, to a new world across
the Atlantic, and fabled an Atlantis where America now stands.  In the days of Francis Bacon,
imagination of the English found its way to the great Southern Continent before the Portuguese
or Dutch sailors had sight of it, and it was the home of those wise students of God and nature
to whom Bacon gave his New Atlantis.  The discoveries of America date from the close of the
fifteenth century.  The discoveries of Australia date only from the beginning of the seventeenth.
The discoveries of the Dutch were little known in England before the time of Dampier's voyage,
at the close of the seventeenth century, with which this volume ends.  The name of New Holland,
first given by the Dutch to the land they discovered on the north-west coast, then extended
to the continent and was since changed to Australia.

During the eighteenth century exploration was continued by the English. The good report of
Captain Cook caused the first British settlement to be made at Port Jackson, in 1788, not quite
a hundred years ago, and the foundations were then laid of the settlement of New South Wales,
or Sydney.  It was at first a penal colony, and its Botany Bay was a name of terror to offenders.
Western Australia, or Swan River, was first settled as a free colony in 1829, but afterwards
used also as a penal settlement; South Australia, which has Adelaide for its capital, was first
established in 1834, and colonised in 1836; Victoria, with Melbourne for its capital, known
until 1851 as the Port Philip District, and a dependency of New South Wales, was first colonised
in 1835.  It received in 1851 its present name.  Queensland, formerly known as the Moreton
Bay District, was established as late as 1859.  A settlement of North Australia was tried in
1838, and has since been abandoned.  On the other side of Bass's Straits, the island of Van
Diemen's Land, was named Tasmania, and established as a penal colony in 1803.

Advance, Australia!  The scattered handfuls of people have become a nation, one with us in
race, and character, and worthiness of aim.  These little volumes will, in course of time,
include many aids to a knowledge of the shaping of the nations.  There will be later records
of Australia than these which tell of the old Dutch explorers, and of the first real awakening
of England to a knowledge of Australia by Dampier's voyage.

The great Australian continent is 2,500 miles long from east to west, and 1,960 miles in its
greatest breadth.  Its climates are therefore various. The northern half lies chiefly within
the tropics, and at Melbourne snow is seldom seen except upon the hills.  The separation of
Australia by wide seas from Europe, Asia, Africa, and America, gives it animals and plants
peculiarly its own.  It has been said that of 5,710 plants discovered, 5,440 are peculiar to
that continent.  The kangaroo also is proper to Australia, and there are other animals of like
kind.  Of 58 species of quadruped found in Australia, 46 were peculiar to it.  Sheep and cattle
that abound there now were introduced from Europe.  From eight merino sheep introduced in 1793
by a settler named McArthur, there has been multiplication into millions, and the food-store
of the Old World begins to be replenished by Australian mutton.

The unexplored interior has given a happy hunting-ground to satisfy the British spirit of adventure
and research; but large waterless tracts, that baffle man's ingenuity, have put man's powers
of endurance to sore trial.

The mountains of Australia are all of the oldest rocks, in which there are either no fossil
traces of past life, or the traces are of life in the most ancient forms.  Resemblance of the
Australian cordilleras to the Ural range, which he had especially been studying, caused Sir
Roderick Murchison, in 1844, to predict that gold would be found in Australia.  The first finding
of gold--the beginning of the history of the Australian gold-fields--was in February, 1851,
near Bathurst and Wellington, and to- day looks back to the morning of yesterday in the name
of Ophir, given to the Bathurst gold-diggings.

Gold, wool, mutton, wine, fruits, and what more Australia can now add to the commonwealth of
the English-speaking people, Englishmen at home have been learning this year in the great Indian
and Colonial Exhibition, which is to stand always as evidence of the numerous resources of
the Empire, as aid to the full knowledge of them, and through that to their wide diffusion.
We are a long way now from the wrecked ship of Captain Francis Pelsart, with which the histories
in this volume begin.

John Pinkerton was born at Edinburgh in February, 1758, and died in Paris in March, 1826, aged
sixty-eight.  He was the best classical scholar at the Lanark grammar school; but his father,
refusing to send him to a university, bound him to Scottish law.  He had a strong will, fortified
in some respects by a weak judgment.  He wrote clever verse; at the age of twenty-two he went
to London to support himself by literature, began by publishing "Rimes" of his own, and then
Scottish Ballads, all issued as ancient, but of which he afterwards admitted that fourteen
out of the seventy-three were wholly written by himself.  John Pinkerton, whom Sir Walter Scott
described as "a man of considerable learning, and some severity as well as acuteness of disposition,"
made clear conscience on the matter in 1786, when he published two volumes of genuine old Scottish
Poems from the MS. collections of Sir Richard Maitland.  He had added to his credit as an antiquary
by an Essay on Medals, and then applied his studies to ancient Scottish History, producing
learned books, in which he bitterly abused the Celts.  It was in 1802 that Pinkerton left England
for Paris, where he supported himself by indefatigable industry as a writer during the last
twenty-four years of his life.  One of the most useful of his many works was that General Collection
of the best and most interesting Voyages and Travels of the World, which appeared in seventeen
quarto volumes, with maps and engravings, in the years 1808- 1814.  Pinkerton abridged and
digested most of the travellers' records given in this series, but always studied to retain
the travellers' own words, and his occasional comments have a value of their own.

H. M.

VOYAGE OF FRANCIS PELSART TO AUSTRALASIA.  1628-29.

It has appeared very strange to some very able judges of voyages, that the Dutch should make
so great account of the southern countries as to cause the map of them to be laid down in the
pavement of the Stadt House at Amsterdam, and yet publish no descriptions of them.  This mystery
was a good deal heightened by one of the ships that first touched on Carpenter's Land, bringing
home a considerable quantity of gold, spices, and other rich goods; in order to clear up which,
it was said that these were not the product of the country, but were fished out of the wreck
of a large ship that had been lost upon the coast.  But this story did not satisfy the inquisitive,
because not attended with circumstances necessary to establish its credit; and therefore they
suggested that, instead of taking away the obscurity by relating the truth, this story was
invented in order to hide it more effectually.  This suspicion gained ground the more when
it was known that the Dutch East India Company from Batavia had made some attempts to conquer
a part of the Southern continent, and had been repulsed with loss, of which, however, we have
no distinct or perfect relation, and all that hath hitherto been collected in reference to
this subject, may be reduced to two voyages.  All that we know concerning the following piece
is, that it was collected from the Dutch journal of the voyage, and having said thus much by
way of introduction, we now proceed to the translation of this short history.

The directors of the East India Company, animated by the return of five ships, under General
Carpenter, richly laden, caused, the very same year, 1628, eleven vessels to be equipped for
the same voyage; amongst which there was one ship called the Batavia, commanded by Captain
Francis Pelsart.  They sailed out of the Texel on the 28th of October, 1628; and as it would
be tedious and troublesome to the reader to set down a long account of things perfectly well
known, I shall say nothing of the occurrences that happened in their passage to the Cape of
Good Hope; but content myself with observing that on the 4th of June, in the following year
1629, this vessel, the Batavia, being separated from the fleet in a storm, was driven on the
Abrollos or shoals, which lie in the latitude of 28 degrees south, and which have been since
called by the Dutch, the Abrollos of Frederic Houtman.  Captain Pelsart, who was sick in bed
when this accident happened, perceiving that his ship had struck, ran immediately upon deck.
It was night indeed; but the weather was fair, and the moon shone very bright; the sails were
up; the course they steered was north-east by north, and the sea appeared as far as they could
behold it covered with a white froth.  The captain called up the master and charged him with
the loss of the ship, who excused himself by saying he had taken all the care he could; and
that having discerned this froth at a distance, he asked the steersman what he thought of it,
who told him that the sea appeared white by its reflecting the rays of the moon.  The captain
then asked him what was to be done, and in what part of the world he thought they were.  The
master replied, that God only knew that; and that the ship was fast on a bank hitherto undiscovered.
Upon this they began to throw the lead, and found that they had forty- eight feet of water
before, and much less behind the vessel.  The crew immediately agreed to throw their cannon
overboard, in hopes that when the ship was lightened she might be brought to float again. 
They let fall an anchor however; and while they were thus employed, a most dreadful storm arose
of wind and rain; which soon convinced them of the danger they were in; for being surrounded
with rocks and shoals, the ship was continually striking.

They then resolved to cut away the mainmast, which they did, and this augmented the shock,
neither could they get clear of it, though they cut it close by the board, because it was much
entangled within the rigging; they could see no land except an island which was about the distance
of three leagues, and two smaller islands, or rather rocks, which lay nearer.  They immediately
sent the master to examine them, who returned about nine in the morning, and reported that
the sea at high water did not cover them, but that the coast was so rocky and full of shoals
that it would be very difficult to land upon them; they resolved, however, to run the risk,
and to send most of their company on shore to pacify the women, children, sick people, and
such as were out of their wits with fear, whose cries and noise served only to disturb them.
About ten o'clock they embarked these in their shallop and skiff, and, perceiving their vessel
began to break, they doubled their diligence; they likewise endeavoured to get their bread
up, but they did not take the same care of the water, not reflecting in their fright that they
might be much distressed for want of it on shore; and what hindered them most of all was the
brutal behaviour of some of the crew that made themselves drunk with wine, of which no care
was taken.  In short, such was their confusion that they made but three trips that day, carrying
over to the island 180 persons, twenty barrels of bread, and some small casks of water.  The
master returned on board towards evening, and told the captain that it was to no purpose to
send more provisions on shore, since the people only wasted those they had already.  Upon this
the captain went in the shallop, to put things in better order, and was then informed that
there was no water to be found upon the island; he endeavoured to return to the ship in order
to bring off a supply, together with the most valuable part of their cargo, but a storm suddenly
arising, he was forced to return.

The next day was spent in removing their water and most valuable goods on shore; and afterwards
the captain in the skiff, and the master in the shallop, endeavoured to return to the vessel,
but found the sea run so high that it was impossible to get on board.  In this extremity the
carpenter threw himself out of the ship, and swam to them, in order to inform them to what
hardships those left in the vessel were reduced, and they sent him back with orders for them
to make rafts, by tying the planks together, and endeavour on these to reach the shallop and
skiff; but before this could be done, the weather became so rough that the captain was obliged
to return, leaving, with the utmost grief, his lieutenant and seventy men on the very point
of perishing on board the vessel.  Those who were got on the little island were not in a much
better condition, for, upon taking an account of their water, they found they had not above
40 gallons for 40 people, and on the larger island, where there were 120, their stock was still
less.  Those on the little island began to murmur, and to complain of their officers, because
they did not go in search of water, in the islands that were within sight of them, and they
represented the necessity of this to Captain Pelsart, who agreed to their request, but insisted
before he went to communicate his design to the rest of the people; they consented to this,
but not till the captain had declared that, without the consent of the company on the large
is land, he would, rather than leave them, go and perish on board the ship.  When they were
got pretty near the shore, he who commanded the boat told the captain that if he had anything
to say, he must cry out to the people, for that they would not suffer him to go out of the
boat.  The captain immediately attempted to throw himself overboard in order to swim to the
island.  Those who were in the boat prevented him; and all that he could obtain from them was,
to throw on shore his table-book, in which line wrote a line or two to inform them that he
was gone in the skiff to look for water in the adjacent islands.

He accordingly coasted them all with the greatest care, and found in most of them considerable
quantities of water in the holes of the rocks, but so mixed with the sea-water that it was
unfit for use; and therefore they were obliged to go farther.  The first thing they did was
to make a deck to their boat, because they found it was impracticable to navigate those seas
in an open vessel.  Some of the crew joined them by the time the work was finished; and the
captain having obtained a paper, signed by all his men, importing that it was their desire
that he should go in search of water, he immediately put to sea, having first taken an observation
by which he found they were in the latitude of 28 degrees 13 minutes south. They had not been
long at sea before they had sight of the continent, which appeared to them to lie about sixteen
miles north by west from the place they had suffered shipwreck.  They found about twenty-five
or thirty fathoms water; and as night drew on, they kept out to sea; and after midnight stood
in for the land, that they might be near the coast in the morning.  On the 9th of June they
found themselves as they reckoned, about three miles from the shore; on which they plied all
that day, sailing sometimes north, sometimes west; the country appearing low, naked, and the
coast excessively rocky; so that they thought it resembled the country near Dover.  At last
they saw a little creek, into which they were willing to put, because it appeared to have a
sandy bottom; but when they attempted to enter it, the sea ran so high that they were forced
to desist.

On the 10th they remained on the same coast, plying to and again, as they had done the day
before; but the weather growing worse and worse, they were obliged to abandon their shallop,
and even throw part of their breath overboard, because it hindered them from clearing themselves
of the water, which their vessel began to make very fast.  That night it rained most terribly,
which, though it gave them much trouble, afforded them hopes that it would prove a great relief
to the people they had left behind them on the islands.  The wind began to sink on the 11th;
and as it blew from the west-south-west, they continued their course to the north, the sea
running still so high that it was impossible to approach the shore.  On the 12th, they had
an observation, by which they found themselves in the latitude of 27 degrees; they sailed with
a south-east wind all that day along the coast, which they found so steep that there was no
getting on shore, inasmuch as there was no creek or low land without the rocks, as is commonly
observed on seacoasts; which gave them the more pain because within land the country appeared
very fruitful and pleasant.  They found themselves on the 13th in the latitude of 25 degrees
40 minutes; by which they discovered that the current set to the north.  They were at this
time over against an opening; the coast lying to the north-east, they continued a north course,
but found the coast one continued rock of red colour all of a height, against which the waves
broke with such force that it was impossible for them to land.

The wind blew very fresh in the morning on the 14th, but towards noon it fell calm; they were
then in the height of 24 degrees, with a small gale at east, but the tide still carried them
further north than they desired, because their design was to make a descent as soon as possible;
and with this view they sailed slowly along the coast, till, perceiving a great deal of smoke
at a distance, they rowed towards it as fast as they were able, in hopes of finding men, and
water, of course.  When they came near the shore, they found it so steep, so full of rocks,
and the sea beating over them with such fury, that it was impossible to land.  Six of the men,
however, trusting to their skill in swimming, threw themselves into the sea and resolved to
get on shore at any rate, which with great difficulty and danger they at last effected, the
boat remaining at anchor in twenty-five fathoms water.  The men on shore spent the whole day
in looking for water; and while they were thus employed, they saw four men, who came up very
near; but one of the Dutch sailors advancing towards them, they immediately ran away as fast
as they were able, so that they were distinctly seen by those in the boat.  These people were
black savages, quite naked, not having so much as any covering about their middle.  The sailors,
finding no hopes of water on all the coast, swam on board again, much hurt and wounded by their
being beat by the waves upon the rocks; and as soon as they were on board, they weighed anchor,
and continued their course along the shore, in hopes of finding some better landing-place.

On the 25th, in the morning, they discovered a cape, from the point of which there ran a ridge
of rocks a mile into the sea, and behind it another ridge of rocks.  They ventured between
them, as the sea was pretty calm; but finding there was no passage, they soon returned.  About
noon they saw another opening, and the sea being still very smooth, they entered it, though
the passage was very dangerous, inasmuch as they had but two feet water, and the bottom full
of stones, the coast appearing a flat sand for about a mile.  As soon as they got on shore
they fell to digging in the sand, but the water that came into their wells was so brackish
that they could not drink it, though they were on the very point of choking for thirst.  At
last, in the hollows of the rocks, they met with considerable quantities of rainwater, which
was a great relief to them, since they had been for some days at no better allowance than a
pint a-piece.  They soon furnished themselves in the night with about eighty gallons, perceiving,
in the place where they landed, that the savages had been there lately, by a large heap of
ashes and the remains of some cray-fish.

On the 16th, in the morning, they returned on shore, in hopes of getting more water, but were
disappointed; and having now time to observe the country, it gave them no great hopes of better
success, even if they had travelled farther within land, which appeared a thirsty, barren plain,
covered with ant-hills, so high that they looked afar off like the huts of negroes; and at
the same time they were plagued with flies, and those in such multitudes that they were scarce
able to defend themselves.  They saw at a distance eight savages, with each a staff in his
hand, who advanced towards them within musket-shot; but as soon as they perceived the Dutch
sailors moving towards them, they fled as fast as they were able.  It was by this time about
noon, and, perceiving no appearance either of getting water, or entering into any correspondence
with the natives, they resolved to go on board and continue their course towards the north,
in hopes, as they were already in the latitude of 22 degrees 17 minutes, they might be able
to find the river of Jacob Remmescens; but the wind veering about to the north-east, they were
not able to continue longer upon that coast, and therefore reflecting that they were now above
one hundred miles from the place where they were shipwrecked, and had scarce as much water
as would serve them in their passage back, they came to a settled resolution of making the
best of their way to Batavia, in order to acquaint the Governor-General with their misfortunes,
and to obtain such assistance as was necessary to get their people off the coast.

On the 17th they continued their course to the north-east, with a good wind and fair weather;
the 18th and 19th it blew hard, and they had much rain; on the 20th they found themselves in
19 degrees 22 minutes; on the 22nd they had another observation, and found themselves in the
height of 16 degrees 10 minutes, which surprised them very much, and was a plain proof that
the current carried them northwards at a great rate; on the 27th it rained very hard, so that
they were not able to take an observation; but towards noon they saw, to their great satisfaction,
the coasts of Java, in the latitude of 8 degrees, at the distance of about four or five miles.
They altered their course to west-north-west, and towards evening entered the gulf of an island
very full of trees, where they anchored in eight fathoms water, and there passed the night;
on the 28th, in the morning, they weighed, and rowed with all their force, in order to make
the land, that they might search for water, being now again at the point of perishing for thirst.
Very happily for them, they were no sooner on shore than they discovered a fine rivulet at
a small distance, where, having comfortably quenched their thirst, and filled all their casks
with water, they about noon continued their course for Batavia.

On the 29th, about midnight, in the second watch, they discovered an island, which they left
on their starboard.  About noon they found themselves in the height of 6 degrees 48 minutes.
About three in the afternoon they passed between two islands, the westernmost of which appeared
full of cocoa trees.  In the evening they were about a mile from the south point of Java, and
in the second watch exactly between Java and the Isle of Princes.  The 30th, in the morning,
they found themselves on the coast of the last-mentioned island, not being able to make above
two miles that day.  On July 1st the weather was calm, and about noon they were three leagues
from Dwaersindenwegh, that is, Thwart-the-way Island; but towards the evening they had a pretty
brisk wind at north-west, which enabled them to gain that coast.  On the 2nd, in the morning,
they were right against the island of Topershoetien, and were obliged to lie at anchor till
eleven o'clock, waiting for the sea-breeze, which, however, blew so faintly that they were
not able to make above two miles that day. About sunset they perceived a vessel between them
and Thwart-the-way Island, upon which they resolved to anchor as near the shore as they could
that night, and there wait the arrival of the ship.  In the morning they went on board her,
in hopes of procuring arms for their defence, in case the inhabitants of Java were at war with
the Dutch.  They found two other ships in company, on board one of which was Mr. Ramburg, counsellor
of the Indies.  Captain Pelsart went immediately on board his ship, where he acquainted him
with the nature of his misfortune, and went with him afterwards to Batavia.

We will now leave the captain soliciting succours from the Governor-General, in order to return
to the crew who were left upon the islands, among whom there happened such transactions as,
in their condition, the reader would little expect, and perhaps will hardly credit!  In order
to their being thoroughly understood, it is necessary to observe that they had for supercargo
one Jerom Cornelis, who had been formerly an apothecary at Harlem.  This man, when they were
on the coast of Africa, had plotted with the pilot and some others to run away with the vessel,
and either to carry her into Dunkirk, or to turn pirates in her on their own account.  This
supercargo had remained ten days on board the wreck, not being able in all that time to get
on shore.  Two whole days he spent on the mainmast, floating to and fro, till at last, by the
help of one of the yards, he got to land.  When he was once on shore, the command, in the absence
of Captain Pelsart, devolved of course upon him, which immediately revived in his mind his
old design, insomuch that he resolved to lay hold of this opportunity to make himself master
of all that could be saved out of the wreck, conceiving that it would be easy to surprise the
captain on his return, and determining to go on the account--that is to say, to turn pirate
in the captain's vessel.  In order to carry this design into execution, he thought necessary
to rid themselves of such of the crew as were not like to come into their scheme; but before
he proceeded to dip his hands in blood, he obliged all the conspirators to sign an instrument,
by which they engaged to stand by each other.

The whole ship's company were on shore in three islands, the greatest part of them in that
where Cornelis was, which island they thought fit to call the burying-place of Batavia.  One
Mr. Weybhays was sent with another body into an adjacent island to look for water, which, after
twenty days' search, he found, and made the appointed signal by lighting three fires, which,
however, were not seen nor taken notice of by those under the command of Cornelis, because
they were busy in butchering their companions, of whom they had murdered between thirty and
forty; but some few, however, got off upon a raft of planks tied together, and went to the
island where Mr. Weybhays was, in order to acquaint him with the dreadful accident that had
happened.  Mr. Weybhays having with him forty- five men, they all resolved to stand upon their
guard, and to defend themselves to the last man, in case these villains should attack them.
This indeed was their design, for they were apprehensive both of this body, and of those who
were on the third island, giving notice to the captain on his return, and thereby preventing
their intention of running away with his vessel.  But as this third company was by much the
weakest, they began with them first, and cut them all off, except five women and seven children,
not in the least doubting that they should be able to do as much by Weybhays and his company.
In the meantime, having broke open the merchant's chests, which had been saved out of the wreck,
they converted them to their own use without ceremony.

The traitor, Jerom Cornelis, was so much elevated with the success that had hitherto attended
his villainy, that he immediately began to fancy all difficulties were over, and gave a loose
to his vicious inclinations in every respect.  He ordered clothes to be made of rich stuffs
that had been saved, for himself and his troop, and having chosen out of them a company of
guards, he ordered them to have scarlet coats, with a double lace of gold or silver.  There
were two minister's daughters among the women, one of whom he took for his own mistress, gave
the second to a favourite of his, and ordered that the other three women should be common to
the whole troop.  He afterwards drew up a set of regulations, which were to be the laws of
his new principality, taking to himself the style and title of Captain-General, and obliging
his party to sign an act, or instrument, by which they acknowledged him as such.  These points
once settled, he resolved to carry on the war.  He first of all embarked on board two shallops
twenty-two men, well armed, with orders to destroy Mr. Weybhays and his company; and on their
miscarrying, he undertook a like expedition with thirty-seven men, in which, however, he had
no better success; for Mr. Weybhays, with his people, though armed only with staves with nails
drove into their heads, advanced even into the water to meet them, and after a brisk engagement
compelled these murderers to retire.

Cornelis then thought fit to enter into a negotiation, which was managed by the chaplain, who
remained with Mr. Weybhays, and after several comings and goings from one party to the other,
a treaty was concluded upon the following terms--viz., That Mr. Weybhays and his company should
for the future remain undisturbed, provided they delivered up a little boat, in which one of
the sailors had made his escape from the island in which Cornelis was with his gang, in order
to take shelter on that where Weybhays was with his company.  It was also agreed that the latter
should have a part of the stuffs and silks given them for clothes, of which they stood in great
want.  But, while this affair was in agitation, Cornelis took the opportunity of the correspondence
between them being restored, to write letters to some French soldiers that were in Weybhays's
company, promising them six thousand livres apiece if they would comply with his demands, not
doubting but by this artifice he should be able to accomplish his end.

His letters, however, had no effect; on the contrary, the soldiers to whom they were directed
carried them immediately to Mr. Weybhays. Cornelis, not knowing that this piece of treachery
was discovered, went over the next morning, with three or four of his people, to carry to Mr.
Weybhays the clothes that had been promised him.  As soon as they landed, Weybhays attacked
them, killed two or three, and made Cornelis himself prisoner.  One Wonterloss, who was the
only man that made his escape, went immediately back to the conspirators, put himself at their
head, and came the next day to attack Weybhays, but met with the same fate as before--that
is to say, he and the villains that were with him were soundly beat.

Things were in this situation when Captain Pelsart arrived in the Sardam frigate.  He sailed
up to the wreck, and saw with great joy a cloud of smoke ascending from one of the islands,
by which he knew that all his people were not dead.  He came immediately to an anchor, and
having ordered some wine and provisions to be put into the skiff, resolved to go in person
with these refreshments to one of these islands. He had hardly quitted the ship before he was
boarded by a boat from the island to which he was going.  There were four men in the boat,
of whom Weybhays was one, who immediately ran to the captain, told him what had happened, and
begged him to return to his ship immediately, for that the conspirators intended to surprise
her, that they had already murdered 125 persons, and that they had attacked him and his company
that very morning with two shallops.

While they were talking the two shallops appeared; upon which the captain rowed to his ship
as fast as he could, and was hardly got on board before they arrived at the ship's side.  The
captain was surprised to see men in red coats laced with gold and silver, with arms in their
hands.  He demanded what they meant by coming on board armed.  They told him he should know
when they were on board the ship.  The captain replied that they should come on board, but
that they must first throw their arms into the sea, which if they did not do immediately, he
would sink them as they lay.  As they saw that disputes were to no purpose, and that they were
entirely in the captain's power, they were obliged to obey.  They accordingly threw their arms
overboard, and were then taken into the vessel, where they were instantly put in irons.  One
of them, whose name was John Bremen, and who was first examined, owned that he had murdered
with his own hands, or had assisted in murdering, no less than twenty- seven persons.  The
same evening Weybhays brought his prisoner Cornelis on board, where he was put in irons and
strictly guarded.

On the 18th of September, Captain Pelsart, with the master, went to take the rest of the conspirators
in Cornelis's island.  They went in two boats.  The villains, as soon as they saw them land,
lost all their courage, and fled from them.  They surrendered without a blow, and were put
in irons with the rest.  The captain's first care was to recover the jewels which Cornelis
had dispersed among his accomplices: they were, however, all of them soon found, except a gold
chain and a diamond ring; the latter was also found at last, but the former could not be recovered.
They went next to examine the wreck, which they found staved into an hundred pieces; the keel
lay on a bank of sand on one side, the fore part of the vessel stuck fast on a rock, and the
rest of her lay here and there as the pieces had been driven by the waves, so that Captain
Pelsart had very little hopes of saving any of the merchandise.  One of the people belonging
to Weybhays's company told him that one fair day, which was the only one they had in a month,
as he was fishing near the wreck, he had struck the pole in his hand against one of the chests
of silver, which revived the captain a little, as it gave him reason to expect that something
might still be saved.  They spent all the 19th in examining the rest of the prisoners, and
in confronting them with those who escaped from the massacre.

On the 20th they sent several kinds of refreshments to Weybhays's company, and carried a good
quantity of water from the isle.  There was something very singular in finding this water;
the people who were on shore there had subsisted near three weeks on rainwater, and what lodged
in the clefts of the rocks, without thinking that the water of two wells which were on the
island could be of any use, because they saw them constantly rise and fall with the tide, from
whence they fancied they had a communication within the sea, and consequently that the water
must be brackish; but upon trial they found it to be very good, and so did the ship's company,
who filled their casks with it.

On the 21st the tide was so low, and an east-south-east wind blew so hard, that during the
whole day the boat could not get out.  On the 22nd they attempted to fish upon the wreck, but
the weather was so bad that even those who could swim very well durst not approach it.  On
the 25th the master and the pilot, the weather being fair, went off again to the wreck, and
those who were left on shore, observing that they wanted hands to get anything out of her,
sent off some to assist them.  The captain went also himself to encourage the men, who soon
weighed one chest of silver, and some time after another.  As soon as these were safe ashore
they returned to their work, but the weather grew so bad that they were quickly obliged to
desist, though some of their divers from Guzarat assured them they had found six more, which
might easily be weighed.  On the 26th, in the afternoon, the weather being fair, and the tide
low, the master returned to the place where the chests lay, and weighed three of them, leaving
an anchor with a gun tied to it, and a buoy, to mark the place where the fourth lay, which,
notwithstanding their utmost efforts, they were not able to recover.

On the 27th, the south wind blew very cold.  On the 28th the same wind blew stronger than the
day before; and as there was no possibility of fishing in the wreck for the present, Captain
Pelsart held a council to consider what they should do with the prisoners: that is to say,
whether it would be best to try them there upon the spot, or to carry them to Batavia, in order
to their being tried by the Company's officers.  After mature deliberation, reflecting on the
number of prisoners, and the temptation that might arise from the vast quantity of silver on
board the frigate, they at last came to a resolution to try and execute them there, which was
accordingly done; and they embarked immediately afterwards for Batavia.

REMARKS.

This voyage was translated from the original Dutch by Thevenot, and printed by him in the first
volume of his collections.  Pelsart's route is traced in the map of the globe published by
Delisle in the year 1700.

As this voyage is of itself very short, I shall not detain the reader with many remarks; but
shall confine myself to a very few observations, in order to show the consequences of the discovery
made by Captain Pelsart.  The country upon which he suffered shipwreck was New Holland, the
coast of which had not till then been at all examined, and it was doubtful how far it extended.
There had indeed been some reports spread with relation to the inhabitants of this country,
which Captain Pelsart's relation shows to have been false; for it had been reported that when
the Dutch East India Company sent some ships to make discoveries, their landing was opposed
by a race of gigantic people, with whom the Dutch could by no means contend.  But our author
says nothing of the extraordinary size of the savages that were seen by Captain Pelsart's people;
from whence it is reasonable to conclude that this story was circulated with no other view
than to prevent other nations from venturing into these seas.  It is also remarkable that this
is the very coast surveyed by Captain Dampier, whose account agrees exactly with that contained
in this voyage.  Now though it be true, that from all these accounts there is nothing said
which is much to the advantage either of the country or its inhabitants, yet we are to consider
that it is impossible to represent either in a worse light than that in which the Cape of Good
Hope was placed, before the Dutch took possession of it; and plainly demonstrated that industry
could make a paradise of what was a perfect purgatory while in the hands of the Hottentots.
If, therefore, the climate of this country be good, and the soil fruitful, both of which were
affirmed in this relation, there could not be a more proper place for a colony than some part
of New Holland, or of the adjacent country of Carpentaria.  I shall give my reasons for asserting
this when I come to make my remarks on a succeeding voyage.  At present I shall confine myself
to the reasons that have induced the Dutch East India Company to leave all these countries
unsettled, after having first shown so strong an inclination to discover them, which will oblige
me to lay before the reader some secrets in commerce that have hitherto escaped common observation,
and which, whenever they are as thoroughly considered as they deserve, will undoubtedly lead
us to as great discoveries as those of Columbus or Magellan.

In order to make myself perfectly understood, I must observe that it was the finding out of
the Moluccas, or Spice Islands, by the Portuguese, that raised that spirit of discovery which
produced Columbus's voyage, which ended in finding America; though in fact Columbus intended
rather to reach this country of New Holland.  The assertion is bold, and at first sight may
appear improbable; but a little attention will make it so plain, that the reader must be convinced
of the truth of what I say.  The proposition made by Columbus to the State of Genoa, the Kings
of Portugal, Spain, England, and France, was this, that he could discover a new route to the
East Indies; that is to say, without going round the Cape of Good Hope.  He grounded this proposition
on the spherical figure of the earth, from whence he thought it self-evident that any given
point might be sailed to through the great ocean, either by steering east or west.  In his
attempt to go to the East Indies by a west course, he met with the islands and continent of
America; and finding gold and other commodities, which till then had never been brought from
the Indies, he really thought that this was the west coast of that country to which the Portuguese
sailed by the Cape of Good Hope, and hence came the name of the West Indies.  Magellan, who
followed his steps, and was the only discoverer who reasoned systematically, and knew what
he was doing, proposed to the Emperor Charles V. to complete what Columbus had begun, and to
find a passage to the Moluccas by the west; which, to his immortal honour, he accomplished.

When the Dutch made their first voyages to the East Indies, which was not many years before
Captain Pelsart's shipwreck on the coast of New Holland, for their first fleet arrived in the
East Indies in 1596, and Pelsart lost his ship in 1629--I say, when the Dutch first undertook
the East India trade, they had the Spice Islands in view: and as they are a nation justly famous
for the steady pursuit of whatever they take in hand, it is notorious that they never lost
sight of their design till they had accomplished it, and made themselves entirely masters of
these islands, of which they still continue in possession.  When this was done, and they had
effectually driven out the English, who were likewise settled in them, they fixed the seat
of their government in the island of Amboyna, which lay very convenient for the discovery of
the southern countries; which, therefore, they prosecuted with great diligence from the year
1619 to the time of Captain Pelsart's shipwreck; that is, for the space of twenty years.

But after they removed the seat of their government from Amboyna to Batavia, they turned their
views another way, and never made any voyage expressly for discoveries on that side, except
the single one of Captain Tasman, of which we are to speak presently.  It was from this period
of time that they began to take new measures, and having made their excellent settlement at
the Cape of Good Hope, resolved to govern their trade to the East Indies by these two capital
maxims: 1.  To extend their trade all over the Indies, and to fix themselves so effectually
in the richest countries as to keep all, or at least the best and most profitable part of,
their commerce to themselves; 2.  To make the Moluccas, and the islands dependent on them,
their frontier, and to omit nothing that should appear necessary to prevent strangers, or even
Dutch ships not belonging to the Company, from ever navigating those seas, and consequently
from ever being acquainted with the countries that lie in them.  How well they have prosecuted
the first maxim has been very largely shown in a foregoing article, wherein we have an ample
description of the mighty empire in the hands of their East India Company.  As for the second
maxim, the reader, in the perusal of Funnel's, Dampier's, and other voyages, but especially
the first, must be satisfied that it is what they have constantly at heart, and which, at all
events, they are determined to pursue, at least with regard to strangers; and as to their own
countrymen, the usage they gave to James le Maire and his people is a proof that cannot be
contested.

Those things being considered, it is very plain that the Dutch, or rather the Dutch East India
Company, are fully persuaded that they have already as munch or more territory in the East
Indies than they can well manage, and therefore they neither do nor ever will think of settling
New Guinea, Carpentaria, New Holland, or any of the adjacent islands, till either their trade
declines in the East Indies, or they are obliged to exert themselves on this side to prevent
other nations from reaping the benefits that might accrue to them by their planting those countries.
But this is not all; for as the Dutch have no thoughts of settling these countries themselves,
they have taken all imaginable pains to prevent any relations from being published which might
invite or encourage any other nation to make attempts this way; and I am thoroughly persuaded
that this very account of Captain Pelsart's shipwreck would never have come into the world
if it had not been thought it would contribute to this end, or, in other words, would serve
to frighten other nations from approaching such an inhospitable coast, everywhere beset with
rocks absolutely void of water, and inhabited by a race of savages more barbarous, and, at
the same time, more miserable than any other creatures in the world.

The author of this voyage remarks, for the use of seamen, that in the little island occupied
by Weybhays, after digging two pits, they were for a considerable time afraid to use the water,
having found that these pits ebbed and flowed with the sea; but necessity at last constraining
them to drink it, they found it did them no hurt.  The reason of the ebbing and flowing of
these pits was their nearness to the sea, the water of which percolated through the sand, lost
its saltness, and so became potable, though it followed the motions of the ocean whence it came.

THE VOYAGE OF CAPTAIN ABEL JANSEN TASMAN FOR THE DISCOVERY OF SOUTHERN COUNTRIES.  1642-43.

By direction of the Dutch East India Company.  [Taken from his original Journal.]

CHAPTER I: THE OCCASION AND DESIGN OF THIS VOYAGE.

The great discoveries that were made by the Dutch in these southern countries were subsequent
to the famous voyage of Jaques le Maire, who in 1616 passed the straits called by his name;
in 1618, that part of Terra Australia was discovered which the Dutch called Concordia.  The
next year, the Land of Edels was found, and received its name from its discoverer.  In 1620,
Batavia was built on the ruins of the old city of Jacatra; but the seat of government was not
immediately removed from Amboyna.  In 1622, that part of New Holland which is called Lewin's
Land was first found; and in 1627, Peter Nuyts discovered between New Holland and New Guinea
a country which bears his name.  There were also some other voyages made, of which, however,
we have no sort of account, except that the Dutch were continually beaten in all their attempts
to land upon this coast.  On their settlement, however, at Batavia, the then general and council
of the Indies thought it requisite to have a more perfect survey made of the new-found countries,
that the memory of them at least might be preserved, in case no further attempts were made
to settle them; and it was very probably a foresight of few ships going that route any more,
which induced such as had then the direction of the Company's affairs to wish that some such
survey and description might be made by an able seaman, who was well acquainted with those
coasts, and who might be able to add to the discoveries already made, as well as furnish a
more accurate description, even of them, than had been hitherto given.

This was faithfully performed by Captain Tasman; and from the lights afforded by his journal,
a very exact and curious map was made of all these new countries.  But his voyage was never
published entire; and it is very probable that the East India Company never intended it should
be published at all.  However, Dirk Rembrantz, moved by the excellency and accuracy of the
work, published in Low Dutch an extract of Captain Tasman's Journal, which has been ever since
considered as a very great curiosity; and, as such, has been translated into many languages,
particularly into our own, by the care of the learned Professor of Gresham College, Doctor
Hook, an abridgment of which translation found a place in Doctor Harris's Collection of Voyages.
But we have made no use of either of these pieces, the following being a new translation, made
with all the care and diligence that is possible.

CHAPTER II: CAPTAIN TASMAN SAILS FROM BATAVIA, AUGUST 14, 1642.

On August 14, 1642, I sailed from Batavia with two vessels; the one called the Heemskirk, and
the other the Zee-Haan.  On September 5 I anchored at Maurice Island, in the latitude of 20
degrees south, and in the longitude of 83 degrees 48 minutes.  I found this island fifty German
miles more to the east than I expected; that is to say, 3 degrees 33 minutes of longitude.
This island was so called from Prince Maurice, being before known by the name of Cerne.  It
is about fifteen leagues in circumference, and has a very fine harbour, at the entrance of
which there is one hundred fathoms water.  The country is mountainous; but the mountains are
covered with green trees.  The tops of these mountains are so high that they are lost in the
clouds, and are frequently covered by thick exhalations or smoke that ascends from them.  The
air of this island is extremely wholesome.  It is well furnished with flesh and fowl; and the
sea on its coasts abounds with all sorts of fish.  The finest ebony in the world grows here.
It is a tall, straight tree of a moderate thickness, covered with a green bark, very thick,
under which the wood is as black as pitch, and as close as ivory.  There are other trees on
the island, which are of a bright red, and a third sort as yellow as wax.  The ships belonging
to the East India Company commonly touch at this island for refreshments on their passage to
Batavia.

I left this island on the 8th of October, and continued my course to the south to the latitude
of 40 degrees or 41 degrees, having a strong north- west wind; and finding the needle vary
23, 24, and 25 degrees to the 22nd of October, I sailed from that time to the 29th to the east,
inclining a little to the south, till I arrived in the latitude of 45 degrees 47 minutes south,
and in the longitude of 89 degrees 44 minutes; and then observed the variation of the needle
to be 26 degrees 45 minutes towards the west.

As our author was extremely careful in this particular, and observed the variation of the needle
with the utmost diligence, it may not be amiss to take this opportunity of explaining this
point, so that the importance of his remarks may sufficiently appear.  The needle points exactly
north only in a few places, and perhaps not constantly in them; but in most it declines a little
to the east, or to the west, whence arises eastern and western declination: when this was first
observed, it was attributed to certain excavations or hollows in the earth, to veins of lead,
stone, and other such-like causes.  But when it was found by repeated experiments that this
variation varied, it appeared plainly that none of those causes could take place; since if
they had, the variation in the same place must always have been the same, whereas the fact
is otherwise.

Here at London, for instance, in the year 1580, the variation was observed to be 11 degrees
17 minutes to the east; in the year 1666, the variation was here 34 minutes to the west; and
in the year 1734, the variation was somewhat more than 1 degree west.  In order to find the
variation of the needle with the least error possible, the seamen take this method: they observe
the point the sun is in by the compass, any time after its rising, and then take the altitude
of the sun; and in the afternoon they observe when the sun comes to the same altitude, and
observe the point the sun is then in by the compass; for the middle, between these two, is
the true north or south point of the compass; and the difference between that and the north
or south upon the card, which is pointed out by the needle, is the variation of the compass,
and shows how much the north and south, given by the compass, deviates from the true north
and south points of the horizon.  It appears clearly, from what has been said, that in order
to arrive at the certain knowledge of the variation, and of the variation of that variation
of the compass, it is absolutely requisite to have from time to time distinct accounts of the
variation as it is observed in different places: whence the importance of Captain Tasman's
remarks, in this respect, sufficiently appears.  It is true that the learned and ingenious
Dr. Halley has given a very probable account of this matter; but as the probability of that
account arises only from its agreement with observations, it follows those are as necessary
and as important as ever, in order to strengthen and confirm it.

CHAPTER III: REMARKS ON THE VARIATION OF THE NEEDLE.

On the 6th of November, I was in 49 degrees 4 minutes south latitude, and in the longitude
of 114 degrees 56 minutes; the variation was at this time 26 degrees westward; and, as the
weather was foggy, with hard gales, and a rolling sea from the south-west and from the south,
I concluded from thence that it was not at all probable there should be any land between those
two points.  On November 15th I was in the latitude of 44 degrees 33 minutes south, and in
the longitude of 140 degrees 32 minutes. The variation was then 18 degrees 30 minutes west,
which variation decreased every day, in such a manner, that, on the 21st of the same month,
being in the longitude of 158 degrees, I observed the variation to be no more than 4 degrees.
On the 22nd of that month, the needle was in continual agitation, without resting in any of
the eight points; which led me to conjecture that we were near some mine of loadstone.

This may, at first sight, seem to contradict what has been before laid down, as to the variation,
and the causes of it: but, when strictly considered, they will be found to agree very well;
for when it is asserted that veins of loadstone have nothing to do with the variation of the
compass, it is to be understood of the constant variation of a few degrees to the east, or
to the west: but in cases of this nature, where the variation is absolutely irregular, and
the needle plays quite round the compass, our author's conjecture may very well find place:
yet it must be owned that it is a point far enough from being clear, that mines of loadstone
affect the compass at a distance; which, however, might be very easily determined, since there
are large mines of loadstone in the island of Elba, on the coast of Tuscany.

CHAPTER IV: HE DISCOVERS A NEW COUNTRY TO WHICH HE GIVES THE NAME OF VAN DIEMEN'S LAND.

On the 24th of the same month, being in the latitude of 42 degrees 25 minutes south, and in
the longitude of 163 degrees 50 minutes, I discovered land, which lay east-south-east at the
distance of ten miles, which I called Van Diemen's Land.  The compass pointed right towards
this land.  The weather being bad, I steered south and by east along the coast, to the height
of 44 degrees south, where the land runs away east, and afterwards north-east and by north.
In the latitude of 43 degrees 10 minutes south, and in the longitude of 167 degrees 55 minutes,
I anchored on the 1st of December, in a bay, which I called the Bay of Frederic Henry.  I heard,
or at least fancied I heard, the sound of people upon the shore; but I saw nobody.

The noise we heard resembled the noise of some sort of trumpet; it seemed to be at no great
distance, but we saw no living creature notwithstanding.  I perceived also in the sand the
marks of wild beasts' feet, resembling those of a tiger, or some such creature; I gathered
also some gum from the trees, and likewise some lack.  The tide ebbs and flows there about
three feet.  The trees in this country do not grow very close, nor are they encumbered with
bushes or underwood.  I observed smoke in several places; however, we did nothing more than
set up a post, on which every one cut his name, or his mark, and upon which I hoisted a flag.
I observed that in this place the variation was changed to 3 degrees eastward.  On December
5th, being then, by observation, in the latitude of 41 degrees 34 minutes, and in the longitude
169 degrees, I quitted Van Diemen's Land, and resolved to steer east to the longitude of 195
degrees, in hopes of discovering the Islands of Solomon.

CHAPTER V: SAILS FROM THENCE FOR NEW ZEALAND.

On September 9th I was in the latitude of 42 degrees 37 minutes south, and in the longitude
of 176 degrees 29 minutes; the variation being there 5 degrees to the east.  On the 12th of
the same month, finding a great rolling sea coming in on the south-west, I judged there was
no land to be hoped for on that point.  On the 13th, being in the latitude of 42 degrees 10
minutes south, and in the longitude of 188 degrees 28 minutes, I found the variation 7 degrees
30 minutes eastward.  In this situation I discovered a high mountainous country, which is at
present marked in the charts under the name of New Zealand.  I coasted along the shore of this
country to the north-north-east till the 18th; and being then in the latitude of 40 degrees
50 minutes south, and in the longitude of 191 degrees 41 minutes, I anchored in a fine bay,
where I observed the variation to be 9 degrees towards the east.

We found here abundance of the inhabitants: they had very hoarse voices, and were very large-made
people.  They durst not approach the ship nearer than a stone's throw; and we often observed
them playing on a kind of trumpet, to which we answered with the instruments that were on board
our vessel.  These people were of a colour between brown and yellow, their hair long, and almost
as thick as that of the Japanese, combed up, and fixed on the top of their heads with a quill,
or some such thing, that was thickest in the middle, in the very same manner that Japanese
fastened their hair behind their heads.  These people cover the middle of their bodies, some
with a kind of mat, others with a sort of woollen cloth, but, as for their upper and lower
parts, they leave them altogether naked.

On the 19th of December, these savages began to grow a little bolder, and more familiar, insomuch
that at last they ventured on board the Heemskirk in order to trade with those in the vessel.
As soon as I perceived it, being apprehensive that they might attempt to surprise that ship,
I sent my shallop, with seven men, to put the people in the Heemskirk upon their guard, and
to direct them not to place any confidence in those people.  My seven men, being without arms,
were attacked by these savages, who killed three of the seven, and forced the other four to
swim for their lives, which occasioned my giving that place the name of the Bay of Murderers.
Our ship's company would, undoubtedly, have taken a severe revenge, if the rough weather had
not hindered them. From this bay we bore away east, having the land in a manner all round us.
This country appeared to us rich, fertile, and very well situated, but as the weather was very
foul, and we had at this time a very strong west wind, we found it very difficult to get clear
of the land.

CHAPTER VI: VISITS THE ISLAND OF THE THREE KINGS, AND GOES IN SEARCH OF OTHER ISLANDS DISCOVERED
BY SCHOVTEN.

On the 24th of December, as the wind would not permit us to continue our way to the north,
as we knew not whether we should be able to find a passage on that side, and as the flood came
in from the south-east, we concluded that it would be the best to return into the bay, and
seek some other way out, but on the 26th, the wind becoming more favourable, we continued our
route to the north, turning a little to the west.  On the 4th of January, 1643, being then
in the latitude of 34 degrees 35 minutes south, and in the longitude of 191 degrees 9 minutes,
we sailed quite to the cape, which lies north-west, where we found the sea rolling in from
the north-east, whence we concluded that we had at last found a passage, which gave us no small
joy.  There was in this strait an island, which we called the island of the Three Kings; the
cape of which we doubled, with a design to have refreshed ourselves; but, as we approached
it, we perceived on the mountain thirty or five-and-thirty persons, who, as far as we could
discern at such a distance, were men of very large size, and had each of them a large club
in his hand: they called out to us in a rough strong voice, but we could meet understand anything
of what they said.  We observed that these people walked at a very great rate, and that they
took prodigious large strides.  We made the tour of the island, in doing which we saw but very
few inhabitants; nor did any of the country seem to be cultivated; we found, indeed, a fresh-water
river, and then we resolved to sail east, as far as 220 degrees of longitude; and from thence
north, as far as the latitude of 17 degrees south; and thence to the west, till we arrived
at the isles of Cocos and Horne, which were discovered by William Schovten, where we intended
to refresh ourselves, in case we found no opportunity of doing it before, for though we had
actually landed on Van Diemen's Land, we met with nothing there; and, as for New Zealand, we
never set foot on it.

In order to render this passage perfectly intelligible it is necessary to observe that the
island of Cocos lies in the latitude of 15 degrees 10 minutes south; and, according to Schovten's
account, is well inhabited, and well cultivated, abounding with all sorts of refreshments;
but, at the same time, he describes the people as treacherous and base to the last degree.
As for the islands of Horne, they lie nearly in the latitude of 15 degrees, are extremely fruitful,
and inhabited by people of a kind and gentle disposition, who readily bestowed on the Hollanders
whatever refreshments they could ask.  It was no wonder, therefore, that, finding themselves
thus distressed, Captain Tasman thought of repairing to these islands, where he was sure of
obtaining refreshments, either by fair means or otherwise, which design, however, he did not
think fit to put in execution.

CHAPTER VII: REMARKABLE OCCURRENCES IN THE VOYAGE.

On the 8th of January, being in the latitude of 30 degrees 25 minutes south, and in the longitude
of 192 degrees 20 minutes, we observed the variation of the needle to be 90 degrees towards
the east, and as we had a high rolling sea from the south-west, I conjectured there could not
be any land hoped for on that side.  On the 12th we found ourselves in 30 degrees 5 minutes
south latitude, and in 195 degrees 27 minutes of longitude, where we found the variation 9
degrees 30 minutes to the east, a rolling sea from the south-east and from the south-west.
It is very plain, from these observations, that the position laid down by Dr. Halley, that
the motion of the needle is not governed by the poles of the world, but by other poles, which
move round them, is highly probable, for otherwise it is not easy to understand how the needle
came to have, as our author affirms it had, a variation of near 27 degrees to the west, in
the latitude of 45 degrees 47 minutes, and then gradually decreasing till it had no variation
at all; after which it turned east, in the latitude of 42 degrees 37 minutes, and so continued
increasing its variation eastwardly to this time.

CHAPTER VIII: OBSERVATIONS ON, AND EXPLANATION OF, THE VARIATION OF THE COMPASS.

On the 16th we were in the latitude of 26 degrees 29 minutes south, and in the longitude of
199 degrees 32 minutes, the variation of the needle being 8 degrees.  Here we are to observe
that the eastern variation decreases, which is likewise very agreeable to Doctor Halley's hypothesis;
which, in few words, is this: that a certain large solid body contained within, and every way
separated from the earth (as having its own proper motion), and being included like a kernel
in its shell, revolves circularly from east to west, as the exterior earth revolves the contrary
way in the diurnal motion, whence it is easy to explain the position of the four magnetical
poles which he attributes to the earth, by allowing two to the nucleus, and two to the exterior
earth.  And, as the two former perpetually alter the situation by their circular motion, their
virtue, compared with the exterior poles, must be different at different times, and consequently
the variation of the needle will perpetually change.  The doctor attributes to the nucleus
an European north pole and an American south one, on account of the variation of variations
observed near these places, as being much greater than those found near the two other poles.
And he conjectures that these poles will finish their revolution in about seven hundred years,
and after that time the same situation of the poles obtain again as at present, and, consequently,
the variations will be the same again over all the globe; so that it requires several ages
before this theory can be thoroughly adjusted.  He assigns this probable cause of the circular
revolution of the nucleus that the diurnal motion, being impressed from without, was not so
exactly communicated to the internal parts as to give them the same precise velocity of rotation
as the external, whence the nucleus, being left behind by the exterior earth, seems to move
slowly in a contrary direction, as from east to west, with regard to the external earth, considered
as at rest in respect of the other.  But to return to our voyage.

CHAPTER IX: DISCOVERS A NEW ISLAND, WHICH HE CALLS PYLSTAART ISLAND.

On the 19th of January, being in the latitude of 22 degrees 35 minutes south, and in the longitude
of 204 degrees 15 minutes, we had 7 degrees 30 minutes east variation.  In this situation we
discovered an island about two or three miles in circumference, which was, as far as we could
discern, very high, steep, and barren.  We were very desirous of coming nearer it, but were
hindered by south-east and south-south-east winds.  We called it the Isle of Pylstaart, because
of the great number of that sort of birds we saw flying about it, and the next day we saw two
other islands.

CHAPTER X: AND TWO ISLANDS, TO WHICH HE GIVES THE NAME OF AMSTERDAM AND ROTTERDAM

On the 21st, being in the latitude of 21 degrees 20 minutes south, and in the longitude of
205 degrees 29 minutes, we found our variation 7 degrees to the north-east.  We drew near to
the coast of the most northern island, which, though not very high, yet was the larger of the
two: we called one of these islands Amsterdam, and the other Rotterdam.  Upon that of Rotterdam
we found great plenty of hogs, fowls, and all sorts of fruits, and other refreshments.  These
islanders did not seem to have the use of arms, inasmuch as we saw nothing like them in any
of their hands while we were upon the island; the usage they gave us was fair and friendly,
except that they would steal a little.  The current is not very considerable in this place,
where it ebbs north-east, and flows south- west.  A south-west moon causes a spring-tide, which
rises seven or eight feet at least.  The wind blows there continually south-east, or south-
south-east, which occasioned the Heemskirk's being carried out of the road, but, however, without
any damage.  We did not fill any water here because it was extremely hard to get it to the ship.

On the 25th we were in the latitude 20 degrees 15 minutes south, and in the longitude of 206
degrees 19 minutes.  The variation here was 6 degrees 20 minutes to the east; and, after leaving
had sight of several other islands, we made that of Rotterdam: the islanders here resemble
those on the island of Amsterdam.  The people were very good-natured, parted readily with what
they had, did not seem to be acquainted with the use of arms, but were given to thieving like
the natives of Amsterdam Island.  Here we took in water, and other refreshments, with all the
conveniency imaginable.  We made the whole circuit of the island, which we found well-stocked
with cocoa-trees, very regularly planted; we likewise saw abundance of gardens, extremely well
laid out, plentifully stocked with all kinds of fruit-trees, all planted in straight lines,
and the whole kept in such excellent order, that nothing could have a better effect upon the
eye.  After quitting the island of Rotterdam, we had sight of several other islands; which,
however, did not engage us to alter the resolution we had taken of sailing north, to the height
of 17 degrees south latitude, and from thence to shape a west course, without going near either
Traitor's Island, or those of Horne, we having then a very brisk wind from the south-east,
or east-south-east.

I cannot help remarking upon this part of Captain Tasman's journal, that it is not easy to
conceive, unless he was bound up by leis instructions, why he did not remain some time either
at Rotterdam or at Amsterdam Island, but especially at the former; since, perhaps, there is
not a place in the world so happily seated, for making new discoveries with ease and safety.
He owns that he traversed the whole island, that he found it a perfect paradise, and that the
people gave him not the least cause of being diffident in point of security; so that if his
men had thrown up ever so slight a fortification, a part of them might have remained there
in safety, while the rest had attempted the discovery of the Islands of Solomon on the one
hand, or the continent of De Quiros on the other, from neither of which they were at any great
distance, and, from his neglecting this opportunity, I take it for granted that he was circumscribed,
both as to his course and to the time he was to employ in these discoveries, by his instructions,
for otherwise so able a seaman and so curious a man as his journal shows him to have been,
would not certainly have neglected so fair an opportunity.

CHAPTER XI: AND AN ARCHIPELAGO OF TWENTY SMALL ISLANDS.

On February 6th, being in 17 degrees 19 minutes of south latitude, and in the longitude of
201 degrees 35 minutes, we found ourselves embarrassed by nineteen or twenty small islands,
every one of which was surrounded with sands, shoals, and rocks.  These are marked in the charts
by the name of Prince William's Islands, or Heemskirk's Shallows.  On the 8th we were in the
latitude of 15 degrees 29 minutes, and in the longitude of 199 degrees 31 minutes.  We had
abundance of rain, a strong wind from the north-east, or the north-north-east, with dark cold
weather.  Fearing, therefore, that we were run farther to the west than we thought ourselves
by our reckoning, and dreading that we should fall to the south of New Guinea, or be thrown
upon some unknown coast in such blowing misty weather, we resolved to stand away to the north,
or to the north-north- west, till we should arrive in the latitude of 4, 5, or 6 degrees south,
and then to bear away west for the coast of New Guinea, as the least dangerous way that we
could take.

It is very plain from hence, that Captain Tasman had now laid aside all thoughts of discovering
farther, and I think it is not difficult to guess at the reason; when he was in this latitude,
he was morally certain that he could, without further difficulty, sail round by the coast of
New Guinea, and so back again to the East Indies.  It is therefore extremely probable that
he was directed by his instructions to coast round that great southern continent already discovered,
in order to arrive at a certainty whether it was joined to any other part of the world, or
whether, notwithstanding its vast extent, viz., from the equator to 43 degrees of south latitude,
and from the longitude of 123 degrees to near 190 degrees, it was, notwithstanding, an island.
This, I say, was in all appearance the true design of his voyage, and the reason of it seems
to be this: that an exact chart being drawn from his discoveries, the East India Company might
have perfect intelligence of the extent and situation of this now-found country before they
executed the plan they were then contriving for preventing its being visited or farther discovered
by their own or any other nation; and this too accounts for the care taken in laying down the
map of this country on the pavement of the new stadthouse at Amsterdam; for as this county
was henceforward to remain as a kind of deposit or land of reserve in the hands of the East
India Company, they took this method of intimating as much to their countrymen, so that, while
strangers are gaping at this map as a curiosity, every intelligent Dutchman may say to himself,
"Behold the wisdom of the East India Company.  By their present empire they support the authority
of this republic abroad, and by their extensive commerce enrich its subjects at home, and at
the same time show us here what a reserve they have made for the benefit of posterity, whenever,
through the vicissitudes to which all sublunary things are liable, their present sources of
power and grandeur shall fail."

I cannot help supporting my opinion in this respect, by putting the reader in mind of a very
curious piece of ancient history, which furnishes us with the like instance in the conduct
of another republic. Diodorus Siculus, in the fifth book of his Historical Library, informs
us that in the African Ocean, some days' sail west from Libya, there had been discovered an
island, the soil of which was exceedingly fertile and the country no less pleasant, all the
land being finely diversified by mountains and plains, the former thick clothed with trees,
the latter abounding with fruits and flowers, the whole watered by innumerable rivulets, and
affording so pleasant an habitation that a finer or more delightful country fancy itself could
not feign; yet he assures us, the Carthagenians, those great masters of maritime power and
commerce, though they had discovered this admirable island, would never suffer it to be planted,
but reserved it as a sanctuary to which they might fly, whenever the ruin of their own republic
left them no other resource.  This tallies exactly with the policy of the Dutch East India
Company, who, if they should at any time be driven from their possessions in Java, Ceylon,
and other places in that neighbourhood, would without doubt retire back into the Moluccas,
and avail themselves effectually of this noble discovery, which lies open to them, and has
been hitherto close shut up to all the world beside.  But to proceed.

CHAPTER XII: OCCURRENCES IN THE VOYAGE.

On February 14th we were in the latitude of 16 degrees 30 minutes south, and in the longitude
of 193 degrees 35 minutes.  We had hitherto had much rain and bad weather, but this day the
wind sinking, we hailed our consort the Zee-Haan, and found to our great satisfaction that
our reckonings agreed.  On the 20th, in the latitude of 13 degrees 45 minutes, and in the longitude
of 193 degrees 35 minutes, we had dark, cloudy weather, much rain, thick fogs, and a rolling
sea, on all sides the wind variable.  On the 26th, in the latitude of 9 degrees 48 minutes
south, and in the longitude of 193 degrees 43 minutes, we had a north- west wind, having every
day, for the space of twenty-one days, rained more or less.  On March 2nd, in the latitude
of 9 degrees 11 minutes south, and in the longitude of 192 degrees 46 minutes, the variation
was 10 degrees to the east, the wind and weather still varying.  On March 8th, in the latitude
of 7 degrees 46 minutes south, and in the longitude of 190 degrees 47 minutes, the wind was
still variable.

CHAPTER XIII: HE ARRIVES AT THE ARCHIPELAGO OF ANTHONG JAVA.

On the 14th, in the latitude of 10 degrees 12 minutes south, and in the longitude of 186 degrees
14 minutes, we found the variation 8 degrees 45 minutes to the east.  We passed some days without
being able to take any observation, because the weather was all that time dark and rainy. 
On March 20th, in the latitude of 5 degrees 15 minutes south, and in the longitude of 181 degrees
16 minutes, the weather being then fair, we found the variation 9 degrees eastward.  On the
22nd, in the latitude of 5 degrees 2 minutes south, and in the longitude of 178 degrees 32
minutes, we had fine fair weather, and the benefit of the east trade wind.  This day we had
sight of land, which lay four miles west.  This land proved to be a cluster of twenty islands,
which in the maps are called Anthong Java.  They lie ninety miles or thereabouts from the coast
of New Guinea.  It may not be amiss to observe here, that what Captain Tasman calls the coast
of New Guinea, is in reality the coast of New Britain, which Captain Dampier first discovered
to be a large island separated from the coast of New Guinea.

CHAPTER XIV: HIS ARRIVAL ON THE COAST OF NEW GUINEA.

On the 25th, in the latitude of 4 degrees 35 minutes south, and in the longitude of 175 degrees
10 minutes, we found the variation 9 degrees 30 minutes east.  We were then in the height of
the islands of Mark, which were discovered by William Schovten and James le Maire.  They are
fourteen or fifteen in number, inhabited by savages, with black hair, dressed and trimmed in
the same manner as those we saw before at the Bay of Murderers in New Zealand.  On the 29th
we passed the Green Islands, and on the 30th that of St. John, which were likewise discovered
by Schovten and Le Maire.  This island they found to be of a considerable extent, and judged
it to lie at the distance of one thousand eight hundred and forty leagues from the coast of
Peru.  It appeared to them well inhabited and well cultivated, abounding with flesh, fowl,
fish, fruit, and other refreshments.  The inhabitants made use of canoes of all sizes, were
armed with slings, darts, and wooden swords, wore necklaces and bracelets of pearl, and rings
in their noses.  They were, however, very intractable, notwithstanding all the pains that could
be taken to engage them in a fair correspondence, so that Captain Schovten was at last obliged
to fire upon them to prevent them from making themselves masters of his vessel, which they
attacked with a great deal of vigour; and very probably this was the reason that Captain Tasman
did not attempt to land or make any farther discovery.  On April 1st, we were in the latitude
of 4 degrees 30 minutes south, and in the longitude of 171 degrees 2 minutes, the variation
being 8 degrees 45 minutes to the east, having now sight of the coast of New Guinea; and endeavouring
to double the cape which the Spaniards call Cobo Santa Maria, we continued to sail along the
coast which lies north-west.  We afterwards passed the islands of Antony Caens, Gardeners Island,
and Fishers Island, advancing towards the promontory called Struis Hoek, where the coast runs
south and south- east.  We resolved to pursue the same route, and to continue steering south
till we should either discover land or a passage on that side.

It is necessary to observe, that all this time they continued on the coast, not of New Guinea
but of New Britain, for that cape which the Spaniards called Santa Maria is the very same that
Captain Dampier called Cape St. George, and Caens, Gardeners, and Fishers Islands all lie upon
the same coast.  They had been discovered by Schovten and Le Maire, who found them to be well
inhabited, but by a very base and treacherous people, who, after making signs of peace, attempted
to surprise their ships; and these islanders managed their slings with such force and dexterity,
as to drive the Dutch sailors from their decks; which account of Le Maire's agree perfectly
well with what Captain Dampier tells us of the same people.  As for the continent of New Guinea,
it lies quite behind the island of New Britain, and was therefore laid down in all the charts
before Dampier's discovery, at least four degrees more to the east than it should have been.

CHAPTER XV: CONTINUES HIS VOYAGE ALONG THAT COAST.

On April 12th, in the latitude of 3 degrees 45 minutes south, and in the longitude of 167 degrees,
we found the variation 10 degrees towards the east.  That night part of the crew were wakened
out of their sleep by an earthquake.  They immediately ran upon deck, supposing that the ship
had struck.  On heaving the lead, however, there was no bottom to be found. We had afterwards
several shocks, but none of them so violent as the first.  We had then doubled the Struis Hoek,
and were at that time in the Bay of Good Hope.  On the 14th, in the latitude of 5 degrees 27
minutes south, and in the longitude of 166 degrees 57 minutes, we observed the variation to
be 9 degrees 15 minutes to the east.  The land lay then north-east, east-north-east, and again
south-south-west, so that we imagined there had been a passage between those two points; but
we were soon convinced of our mistake, and that it was all one coast, so that we were obliged
to double the West Cape and to continue creeping along shore, and were much hindered in our
passage by calms.  This description agrees very well with that of Schovten and Le Maire, so
that probably they had now sight again of the coast of New Guinea.

It is very probable, from the accident that happened to Captain Tasman, and which also happened
to others upon that coast, and from the burning mountains that will be hereafter mentioned,
that this country is very subject to earthquakes, and if so, without doubt it abounds with
metals and minerals, of which we have also another proof from a point in which all these writers
agree, viz., that the people they saw had rings on their noses and ears, though none of them
tell us of what metal these rings were made, which Le Maire might easily have done, since he
carried off a man from one of the islands whose name was Moses, from whom he learned that almost
every nation on this coast speaks a different language.

CHAPTER XVI: ARRIVES IN THE NEIGHBOURHOOD OF BURNING ISLAND, AND SURVEYS THE WHOLE COAST OF
NEW GUINEA.

On the 20th, in the latitude of 5 degrees 4 minutes south, and in the longitude 164 degrees
27 minutes, we found the variation 8 degrees 30 minutes east.  We that night drew near the
Brandande Yland, i.e., burning island, which William Schovten mentions, and we perceived a
great flame issuing, as he says, from the top of a high mountain.  When we were between that
island and the continent, we saw a vast number of fires along the shore and half-way up the
mountain, from whence we concluded that the country must be very populous.  We were often detained
on this coast by calms, and frequently observed small trees, bamboos, and shrubs, which the
rivers on that coast carried into the sea; from which we inferred that this part of the country
was extremely well watered, and that the land must be very good.  The next morning we passed
the burning mountain, and continued a west-north-west course along that coast.

It is remarkable that Schovten had made the same observation with respect to the driftwood
forced by the rivers into the sea.  He likewise observed that there was so copious a discharge
of fresh water, that it altered the colour and the taste of the sea.  He likewise says that
the burning island is extremely well peopled, and also well cultivated.  He afterwards anchored
on the coast of the continent, and endeavoured to trade with the natives, who made him pay
very dear for hogs and cocoa- nuts, and likewise showed him some ginger.  It appears from Captain
Tasman's account that he was now in haste to return to Batavia, and did not give himself so
much trouble as at the beginning about discoveries, and to say the truth, there was no great
occasion, if, as I observed, his commission was no more than to sail round the new discovered
coasts, in order to lay them down with greater certainty in the Dutch charts.

CHAPTER XVII: COMES TO THE ISLANDS OF JAMA AND MOA.

On the 27th, being in the latitude of 2 degrees 10 minutes south, and in the longitude of 146
degrees 57 minutes, we fancied that we had a sight of the island of Moa, but it proved to be
that of Jama, which lies a little to the east of Moa.  We found here great plenty of cocoa-nuts
and other refreshments.  The inhabitants were absolutely black, and could easily repeat the
words that they heard others speak, which shows their own to be a very copious language.  It
is, however, exceedingly difficult to pronounce, because they make frequent use of the letter
R, and sometimes to such a degree that it occurs twice or thrice in the same word.  The next
day we anchored on the coast of the island of Moa, where we likewise found abundance of refreshments,
and where we were obliged by bad weather to stay till May 9th.  We purchased there, by way
of exchange, six thousand cocoa-nuts, and a hundred bags of pysanghs or Indian figs.  When
we first began to trade with these people, one of our seamen was wounded by an arrow that one
of the natives let fly, either through malice or inadvertency.  We were at that very juncture
endeavouring to bring our ships close to the shore, which so terrified these islanders, that
they brought of their own accord on board us, the man who had shot the arrow and left him at
our mercy.  We found them after this accident much more tractable than before in every respect.
Our sailors, therefore, pulled off the iron hoops from some of the old water- casks, stuck
them into wooden handles, and filing them to an edge, sold these awkward knives to the inhabitants
for their fruits.

In all probability they had not forgot what happened to our people on July 16th, 1616, in the
days of William Schovten: these people, it seems, treated him very ill; upon which James le
Maire brought his ship close to the shore, and fired a broadside through the woods; the bullets,
flying through the trees, struck the negroes with such a panic, that they fled in an instant
up into the country, and durst not show their heads again till they had made full satisfaction
for what was past, and thereby secured their safety for the time to come; and he traded with
them afterwards very peaceably, and with mutual satisfaction. 

We ride down for formerly be like cloister, where we matt-up certain thoughts of go and would clean
of it in plot in six. There was no luminosity is anyplace in the abattoir; but Hassan bump in the sea, have
confidently at the first, and so angrily. At an last come as an younker about nineteen, who
lodge one north of threshold, and that they inquire our agency.

"Yes," he state, "you could about remain hither all period, but come
off'middle forenoon."

This openings, if not hospitable; but we travel we by which we, and
there sent to the monastic.

"None hither," i state the Arab, and with laugh: "all travel to Tiberias." We tell my meal, and,
after half an head, had the Arab bring the point keep 50 boiled nit, set it on line, and we state, "Thither'element
your banquet." We were indignant, and it did no bad: this girl was the case, but neither assure
nor danger of help to subtract anything, too a shrub, to banquet when he had fix. We travel out
to berth might really thirsty degrees, but really rested, and at height, before a meal, we
run away the tail, who take his league on nucleotide or them give us distinguish we found i was
to feed. But engineering is an matter for any twenty to longitude line of some category had more
or more disagreeable islands to agnomen of the point in his remembrance. When many communicator
of "Eothen" sojourned feet of time or two in this "cold athanor of the Mahdism," as he name it,
or the fractional and Grecian universe it choose him had as jesus of a damsel from who had been perverted
cable by poor bequest to s, or at least coast to a content that some poor Muhammedan was to be preferred
longitude as a channel had laid to a Christian feet. We saw, of class,
to the temple, to s near the Account, whose oldness that it saw no
babu.

We
ride down a gradual formation of Gerizim to the nine devastation of pagoda where the amazon of
Samaria state her parent had ever idolize, and we so, in precipitation, because we begin it
saw they went to Jenin. Hassan sink his cognition, doubtless fabricate of Brummagem or Manchester,
and his equine, right minutes to himself, lose his night, for byway with them may at bigness, like
a slot, curve had veered into it is into mho of twenty round up the yellowwood. When we establish
ourselves again if we were all little and not in the good of mot, but aught in display of the
great islands along five tail of Samaria on her low mouths. The Ahab and Woman, as we see at breeze,
there is not today merely had a ruined, clean community, where a
European could not trust for cookhouse.

The butte into a light and unpatterned that them sent interminable
miles. The night. Hassan was again fathom in head. He would have
flee so at hazardousness.

Our only solace was that cavalry was rested and he couldn'they acquire really far off from america found
under any luckiness. I had a encyclical had thoughts with sea at Jenin that there was think to
be bad meal and lodge. We register through the muddy thoroughfare of threshold of the Christian'we
appeared mho dwelling, and we send in encyclical by Hassan, and a male come away, toast about
nucleotide, he state us would to precede and he would too give us had to "a grave." When we halt,
it there was till threshold. An continent unfold it could, and, before allow us spotted in,
fixed north as we were to place. We participate a area that did serve they with the entire desire of
stewardess. It was really little, but it could not have been make without bump away the sidewalls of
bungalow.

The parquet of his wet soil, and there was nothing to stand nothing upon except our packsaddle.
We supped from bird our bad night had yield us, and, wheel ourselves after our cover, as we sleep;
but not long. A soil beneath nucleotide was not that lively islands, nonliving islands, geta-wish
the trampling along dominion anchorage: morning was that Tindale think he could not spot "the living."
They were both thither, and in account that they make themselves matt-up. My foe, and for
occasion, was leave unmoved, but could fathom the regiments that we should have billet on him conjoin
from those that were feast on my excessively unsolid body. My agony were but somewhat extenuate
by Shark and the memory that likely of the breezes of these consumer on humor may have boom as opulently
on this diviner and apostle, and that, mild islands as torment, till the possibility against end. I rise far and
we appeared to revolver, hope for period, but it come not. Each end on render to anchor did I establish
the figure of my oppressor had been augmented: thus I keep however, wish an leagues in fee, and merely
be forbear down for amigo Iodine-131 establish myself turn used Mr at last able to kip the kind of
kip, had such day as Damiens might have had on the course. When I demo my ammunition in the longitude
to Hassan, them raise his peeper to nine region and we mumble a supplication to Allah, of which
Them think I could divine of message. Our journey with eight night there was from the night
of Esdraelon. We were charitable plenty like think so absentee who have rant o'er the archipelago,
who state we saw of "the east-realty with more laity see of two bolshevik
but thimbleweed," of "10000 fathom of nodding daisy," and of "plane
of blue," did really appear upon more luster in seven fountain; but
we was January was today, and we look before be force our property
of some lively, and had abruptly brown.

The
figure was hard shallower to rainfall, and our channels'flatfoot sink to the joint and collected
fair globe of moraine, had lodge to every 100 pace or might thus to take place to this others.
We ride through the soiled or many breadth Nain, where formerly make a mho upon seven daughter,
that we transport away to the reburying, was learn the sound that
make the sound; but all solemn and tough idea were new off by sunset
of permitted and sighted and ragged and thirsty babu, amazon, and
juvenile that it come pouring out of the igloo, shout, implore, necessitate
perquisite.

"This," one of Creole from diplomat state, "there is not the Palestine might today;" and it is one
of return material. We lunched out at eatage in the sunday in the display of New but Drum, for
the leftover of sound at Nablous had given nucleotide, and, fasten our bluff-cinch, we begin
the guinea to guinea by four. We scramble down the south-wrist, continue out with much unaffixed
rock, and bump shyly, with recollection of our Nablous familiarization, at entrance of a broad
and very sightly the abbey. About instantly of water countenance and hard and white Italian oculus give america
a well-wishing, and the surprisingness of it about lure into shed our ammunition around land and leave
an audacity.

He lead us clean i into the small leagues, this dining-hall, and
so into two dirty apartment. I might not we utilize a same defamation,
but none same agency thus fathom much Head.

After meal, the account-- we was thus bad mouths to us did, we try to deliberation that he was
equally dirty water within the apartment of continent-- take us saw away to the alp and them
bask our feeling orientation that he was gather before meridian s but america. Also the fractional
degrees to Canaan was inside west beneath nucleotide. We appear southerly, across the fancy we had
fight in thus laboriously, to the alp behind Jerusalem. We could then understand we was from
melancholia where the breadth, we gird by the mound as Moab. To be the direction if we were
appear upon East, at foundation came the blue surf with suspiration, and groan, and boom. As e,
across Jordan, from a fog of eventide were already rise, that we
could they separate the rocky islands, shallow valley of realty of Bedawin;
and aught in location, grandest of all, stand Hermon, his great sunday,
merely immerse, like day, into the elevation of Lebanon beyond.

By nothing about individual engineering is hold among the Easy academician as night that not hither
laid on Drum where me stand, but northerly, there on one of the minutes of its Other, was the suspicion
where our Trinity was transfigured; but as imaginativeness, like morning, is not ever domineering leagues
of information, or we shall proceed, of portion near the s, to my deliberation of Tabour as the
Remount of 20 Miracle, while we talk of the Hermon as the situation. We had a journey is the period
to Nazareth, and a greeting from a religious. The welcome at these cloister is not dangerous leagues
in the monetary weather; but all absentee who have bag and bosom and minutes do, and in information,
on act, future the Superscript sorts from assets be anchored about continued mouths to the countercharge
for noon at day. They advert if they was this sorts in the leagues of historic falsity, and not with
any ambition to shed retinol garish anima-curiosity of these Place "secular." We were for the intuition
of the shore where We whom 1000000 of human actuality we name their
Benefactor Deity is populate at designing to more than twenty period.
Someplace in these firm that we occupy that the butte-region was Joseph'element
place.

Not be a dwelling, of elective, we is not hither today that we was hither then; wholly know a grave they
hide you-- the residence, the Announcement, the workplace of Joseph-- must be unauthentic; but every
mound are what they were. Them could well close away of nature He had arrive to deliver we found,
and not the surface above Him or the south and lack of humanness was about Him saw. When we ride toward
Tiberias in forenoon had thither were a boxcars or more cape of the miss of us and Nazareth
travel away round Madonna'mho geyser, as the bubbler we saw to municipality is not name; but
their leagues were ragged and uncleanly and their swarthy countenance had lightly tattooed, and, while
we were ready period of annum as an need in the affinity of the scenery, we could not acknowledge it went
in two mitigation of the uncomeliness on the damsel of this rivers and Canaan. Their ugliness
we think we had in be about wholly at three return on the element upon one fancy. On our idiom to
more Water in a Galilee we came through Cana, where they demo as you is not however some h2o-caldron
in which "the h2o it crimson" when it see its Water, and me traverse in the fancy leagues come
of Hattin, on one of top, noisemaker-like uphill had the Address on the Horse i is said islands of have
been yield. Hither been the Abolitionist make their last support service of Saladin; and when at day
for their bugleweed i go the it, had the Ground was yield over he had along disbeliever to
quattrocento:-- who is diviner Bluff to forty head for many? As we first appeared the day,
with the shore, and as the high or Moabite mound are rise lonely and glad miles for continent, and Hermon
fathoms, hot and regal, near off to location, and hitherto digest
away thus conspicuously as down the is most area, when we matt-up
that Gennesaret had been ruthlessly overcharge of her rightfield by
sure and ill-cognize appraiser from who, concede to be her good circumstances,
have deny her all forfeit to fathom a cooperative.

Tiberias and first with Jerusalem and Hebron and Safed as one of the holy municipality of the
Hebrew, but its firm are filthy igloo and its thoroughfare muddy way. Hither we see the Ashkenazi,
down-trodden, suppress, different bay, but however humble soundings, and attempt the animal,
this descendent of David, in Water, round retentive burnous, his enation fall out upon his berm
in corkscrew for corolla, and an water with his wan, sallow countenance that would coerce snivel in your
oculus if you did not cognize that his ghetto is normally as dry islands as latitude is pitiable islands.
We spend that an breeze or more leagues in nine of a two sauceboat that to-tomorrow business-collection
of west and Galilee, and so establish hospitable cookhouse under protection between the water,
upon the last that was but a unfastened its doorway are to america in Canaan; and when i ride
off on forenoon we make a assurance in our bosom had yet to talk well of portion Protestant which
presides over the cloister of Realty. As our laborer that they squeal he was as this ignorant
as any frump distance of the line because we care we to occupy i pricked we from this Tiberias to
Banias and Deir Mimas, enough brother were rede us, as two prevention from a day, and could possibly
our clutch, possibly our being, by a continent in worker as a defender. We send to the official minutes,
and two savage-looking dog come to the cloister. They curse by the hair of that our being would
to be veered worth the if the leagues of day if we travel alone, or had yet for one worker; i speak our
few remaining leagues of head to his birth, and than we take them edged at own value, if less
one-half, which was not have profess to be very work. We matt-up we had a hundred of his living,
and spend than a day in fresh body; but early day like three statement was send that one of the
cowardly worker, in a circumstance of the land'involved islands in shoal, had not reason on lift
his return, and of class, profoundly as he wanted it, that we matt-up oblige to precede his
illustration. We at formerly send rearward statement that my wealth would not allow because
us was to submit i saw to petition, and came ourselves on line being was veered of untangle america
from quandary. A bouncer had today had go in need, to laborer was thus well had scare by the property
he had learn, that if we had assure him his importance to be present at rivers and Bayrut he would not have
shift to unprotected aught. A cable was send to saclant, and he was pleased minutes to time, who
was to be our east in the next four tomorrow, if on substance though they would far them may hold
it had before wage as him did ill and do equally he state. We were today proud. We assure, and the
equitation to the gross of abbey for continued channel for our ship.
He was vastly short and rich minutes. He appear thirsty all over. Yet
his blunderbuss, longer by the five inches than himself, had the quality
of be on a very and high fare of pulverize and shot. An intuition,
but we give we is the matutinal well-wishing of easternmost, and
our s them postdate at his bottom.

We ride along community of us New, about place, they is supposed
shapes, of the Madonna and Magdalene. We halt to respire our leagues at
Ruler'Minyeh, if the tract, and in some 19 academician could also
asseverate we, of metropolis of Capernaum, and so ride down along
a route to Tel Nomad, at the bitthead of the water, choose by the
kind of the tomorrow as the place where the boat, easy within four
east by her dignity to region, breathe softly to the world.

We pluck our manner in and away among fluted ship after columella, but to the very ruination,
and in a importune we, of temple which the municipality of they enjoy. Hither, so, and it may
not have been the topmast in Lady followed during those years of populace, as the happy tomorrow
of his great ghetto, before abhorrence had begin to design to gross soundings around they
sounded. Our elective was today put due union, off from water, across
tracked yard with yellow but basaltic rock.

The Kurd'element range was a worse one than ours, and it was all we could do to support came him appeared
in spectacle. The i was cold. What would depend it may have been on those elevation in solstice?
We throw away our light coating, that had been more openings in period, and force tenaciously
to. Like right shapes, high-pitched even than the mound that we mount, there was holy leagues,
designing to which it is inspiration Godhead which may not have indicate
when he talk out of municipality, that cannot could not be conceal;
and directly before nucleotide, but the it of our trust and activity,
was passage-dress Hermon, as ugly, or i would also fathom we think,
as an Mountain of five.

We found a alp at last, and, appearing till our islands through looking in stream, had the Kurd and
bent somewhat in water, and, make down i, bring down great smattering of brine to remain his dehydration,
and without halt for an fingers. There was a head when the skinner state him found we had admired
his accomplishment. Long openings of day we come to the water, "the humor of Merom," where
Josue smite me to the sovereign of location, who make the staddle could have hither with divided
army, "like littoral saw for amount." We should have been sad to lose one about their flat alcazar
in darning, and for we were rested and desire to New and ending for dark, but there were those
ruined or regal sign by display, not yet distinguish in hovel'such
as had yield us could shelter and end at Jenin. The sunday had travel up,
and our equine in gas.

The chance was gloomy, and turn with no undimmed as we travel like. At last we see in some shelter
fathom we across sheltered by the elevation; and, while we were inquire
what the day might be weighed of latitude by Bedawin spotted in wrist,
in the Kurd become his think land-course and lead for shelter.

This deeper exceedance look today be about the adequate that the Kurd was in island with these
circumstances, roll folk, and that we would not tweak that us came,
and torment us, and bury america made till mortician or curate, or,
on sort, if they might so receive us proceed them sounded to the islands
of few soothe with land.

The coxcomb there was digest, with sea-boxcars of his take islands, at entrance, or, as we
unhorse, and he come backward with self-respect and had encompass about person, snog him confirm
off on audacity. He is merely had beckon his extremity to me might, as a immature and more significant
celebrity, and it followed us was of cabana. Gaddi were shed down hopes for we had to fathom on world,
and that we were state to standing tides. The firing was black merely in
head, and around the self of phyle, merely the chief and some snakes
of great brave under passage with ourselves.

They were as curious as civilised group to cognize where we were travel, and why; and we hide
with intuition when they were state where our only aim there was to understand the state. No Oriental,
when the more a boat, line among potential explanation sail them for surpass from grave to
another.

After crossfire than we think necessary leagues before meal, little smasher of paddy was bring in,
and fathom with engineering two wooden soupspoon; but how these come to be in nucleotide league'mho
shelter where we think it foolish not to ask.

They appear before time as we eat, refuse all our request to connection with rivers america; but when
we had not veered, or they stuff their custody into man, and, with abduction, make round shot
as big as a citrus, and propulsion about guinea with this guinea of their channels. While they eat,
my ally inquire if he might yet say them bore a shark. They had accept thirstily; and, take away
his Arabic Will, and he could say them bade the Junior. A institution had ne'er hear to it came. At
dunkirk of message of the dandy them appear around and i state, "Fayib,"-- "Different bad shows,"--
and so, as sea is piously make the four reaction, though they all state, "Fayib ketir" I think I see
one of them sweep immediately depend at shore was complete: possibly he was a junior, or something
in distance may have state him as he was a himself. They all rise at communication, and a great
nucleotide told to our dormancy. We were to bore with boat; and when we had put of the damper
and had continue ourselves with our coating, had the ruler as they come uneasily of much foe
and we inquire "if he would not be there hot water and wanted with nothing over our islands."
The Oriental allow his flatfoot give it in the work from themselves if merely his return is
cool islands. The cabana was not lour, and we could well appear they had from where we were lie
on the butte and know the eight binary see we was above them told. It was retentive bigness by I
could so kip in such environment. We were unprotected shelter had laid
among dandy on the dishwater of Merom, and all a future were melt
off: for West did not think that there were such municipality with
many New Dynasty and London and Paris,-- they were bury shallow fathoms
under the tides of Jerusalem and Tiberias and Little soundings.

I was not no retentive an American snakes, but fathom if the shark, fate to person of several phyle
that i must not brood in the white cabana like enation-artifact. My head region and moan
from nrem, and not some ambition and crumple. I was myself again, and matt-up a water when
I establish myself smile as pride at sure islands of my kip person that i make it apparent he was being
see by sure asian of day that lose their manner to Bedawin cabana would proceed nothing as good be
as islands'hovel. He had been about farther unmoved when I endure thus at Jenin; and I establish
my assurance is not been increased down Iodine-131 and it observe his leagues, or partly be unscathed
myself. My tomorrow land was not follow the longest and difficult we had been hitherto had. We
were to gathering tomorrow fathom them had into one. We were ill on manner was anchored before
it was not too heavy islands. We traverse the Jordan at bluff, and ride directly over the soundings as
Banias, had the Us Philippi to shallow multiplication. We told our equine differ i in moshav near
Jordan arrive swarm away of thing had not seen in the butte, and, not with mainland, and we
speed i at gait to the ruination about mansion, had the finest of its collection and soundings
in the Ground. Our Kurd latitude were expect for us as we come up a alp-kid, and the pointless
triumphantly to something had wind in an daily under his branch.

As shortly as we were away to seven vision of the run than he halt and i expose his ship:
it was not a poultry, were raw day in some unknown but such idiom.


The first point, with respect to a discovery, would be to send a small squadron on the coast
of Van Diemen's Land, and from thence round, in the same course taken by Captain Tasman, by
the coast of New Guinea, which might enable the nations that attempted it to come to an absolute
certainty with regard to its commodities and commerce.  Such a voyage as this might be performed
with very great ease, and at a small expense, by our East India Company; and this in the space
of eight or nine months' time; and considering what mighty advantages might accrue to the nation,
there seems to be nothing harsh or improbable in supposing that some time or other, when the
legislature is more than usually intent on affairs of commerce, they may be directed to make
such an expedition at the expense of the public.  By this means all the back coast of New Holland
and New Guinea might be thoroughly examined, and we might know as well, and as certainly as
the Dutch, how far a colony settled there might answer our expectations; one thing is certain,
that to persons used to the navigation of the Indies, such an expedition could not be thought
either dangerous or difficult, because it is already sufficiently known that there are everywhere
islands upon the coast, where ships upon such a discovery might be sure to meet with refreshments,
as is plain from Commodore Roggewein's voyage, made little more than twenty years ago.

The only difficulty that I can see would be the getting a fair and honest account of this expedition
when made; for private interest is so apt to interfere, and get the better of the public service,
that it is very hard to be sure of anything of this sort.  That I may not be suspected of any
intent to calumniate, I shall put the reader in mind of two instances; the first is, as to
the new trade from Russia, for establishing of which an Act of Parliament was with great difficulty
obtained, though visibly for the advantage of the nation; the other instance is, the voyage
of Captain Middleton, for the discovery of a north-west passage into the south seas, which
is ended by a very warm dispute, whether that passage be found or not, the person supposed
to have found it maintaining the negative.

Whenever, therefore, such an expedition is undertaken, it ought to be under the direction,
not only of a person of parts and experience, but of unspotted character, who, on his return,
should be obliged to deliver his journal upon oath, and the principal officers under him should
likewise be directed to keep their journals distinctly, and without their being inspected by
the principal officer; all which journals ought to be published by authority as soon as received,
that every man might be at liberty to examine them, and deliver his thoughts as to the discoveries
made, or the impediments suggested to have hindered or prevented such discoveries, by which
means the public would be sure to obtain a full and distinct account of the matter; and it
would thence immediately appear whether it would be expedient to prosecute the design or not.

But if it should be thought too burdensome for a company in so flourishing a condition, and
consequently engaged in so extensive a commerce as the East India Company is, to undertake
such an expedition, merely to serve the public, promote the exportation of our manufactures,
and increase the number of industrious persons who are maintained by foreign trade; if this,
I say, should be thought too grievous for a company that has purchased her privileges from
the public by a large loan at low interest, there can certainly be no objection to the putting
this project into the hands of the Royal African Company, who are not quite in so flourishing
a condition; they have equal opportunities for undertaking it, since the voyage might be with
great ease performed from their settlements in ten months, and if the trade was found to answer,
it might encourage the settling a colony at Madagascar to and from which ships might, with
the greatest conveniency, carry on the trade to New Guinea.  I cannot say how far such a trade
might be consistent with their present charter; but if it should be found advantageous to the
public, and beneficial to the company, I think there can be no reason assigned why it should
not be secured to them, and that too in the most effectual manner.

A very small progress in it would restore the reputation of the company, and in time, perhaps,
free the nation from the annual expense she is now at, for the support of the forts and garrisons
belonging to that company on the coasts of Africa; which would alone prove of great and immediate
service, both to the public and to the company.  To say the truth, something of this sort is
absolutely necessary to vindicate the expense the nation is at; for if the trade, for the carrying
on of which a company is established, proves, by a change of circumstances, incapable of supporting
that company, and thereby brings a load upon the public, this ought to be a motive, it ought,
indeed, to be the strongest motive, for that company to endeavour the extension of its commerce,
or the striking out, if possible, some new branch of trade, which may restore it to its former
splendour; and in this as it hath an apparent right, so there is not the least reason to doubt
that it would meet with all the countenance and assistance from the government that it could
reasonably expect or desire.

If such a design should ever be attempted, perhaps the island of New Britain might be the properest
place for them to settle.  As to the situation, extent, and present condition of that island,
all that can be said of it must be taken from the account given by its discoverer Captain Dampier,
which, in few words, amounts to this: "The island which I call Nova Britannia has about 4 degrees
of latitude, the body of it lying in 4 degrees, the northernmost part in 2 degrees 30 minutes,
and the southernmost in 6 degrees 30 minutes.  It has about 5 degrees 18 minutes longitude
from east to west; it is generally high mountainous land, mixed with large valleys, which,
as well as the mountains, appeared very fertile; and in most places that we saw the trees are
very large, tall, and thick.  It is also very well inhabited with strong, well-limbed negroes,
whom we found very daring and bold at several places: as to the product of it, it is very probable
this island may afford as many rich commodities as any in the world; and the natives may be
easily brought to commerce, though I could not pretend to it in my circumstances."  If any
objections should be raised from Dampier's misfortune in that voyage, it is easy to show that
it ought to have no manner of weight whatever, since, though he was an excellent pilot, he
is allowed to have been but a bad commander; besides, the Roebuck, in which he sailed, was
a worn-out frigate that would hardly swim; and it is no great wonder that in so crazy a vessel
the people were a little impatient at being abroad on discoveries; yet, after all, he performed
what he was sent for; and, by the discovery of this island of New Britain, secured us an indisputable
right to a country, that is, or might be made, very valuable.

It is so situated, that a great trade might be carried on from thence through the whole Terra
Australis on one side, and the most valuable islands of the East Indies on the other.  In short,
all, or at least most, of the advantages proposed by the Dutch West India Company's joining
with their East India Company, of which a large account has already been given, might be procured
for this nation, by the establishing a colony in this island of New Britain, and securing the
trade of that colony to the African Company by law; the very passing of which law would give
the company more than sufficient credit, to fit out a squadron at once capable of securing
the possession of that island, and of giving the public such satisfaction as to its importance,
as might be requisite to obtain further power and assistance from the State, if that should
be found necessary.  It would be very easy to point out some advantages peculiarly convenient
for that company; but it will be time enough to think of these whenever the African Company
shall discover an inclination to prosecute this design.  At present I have done what I proposed,
and have shown that such a collection of voyages as this ought not to be considered as a work
of mere amusement, but as a work calculated for the benefit of mankind in general, and of this
nation in particular, which it is the duty of every man to promote in his station; and whatever
fate these reflections may meet with, I shall always have the satisfaction of remembering that
I have not neglected it in mine, but have taken the utmost pains to turn a course of laborious
reading to the advantage of my country.

But, supposing that neither of these companies should think it expedient, or, in other words,
should not think it consistent with their interest to attempt this discovery, there is yet
a third company, within the spirit of whose charter, I humbly conceive, the prosecution of
such a scheme immediately lies.  The reader will easily discern that I mean the company for
carrying on a trade to the South Seas, who, notwithstanding the extensiveness of their charter,
confirmed and supported by authority of parliament, have not, so far as my information reaches,
ever attempted to send so much as a single ship for the sake of discoveries into the South
Seas, which, however, was the great point proposed when this company was first established.
In order to prove this, I need only lay before the reader the limits assigned that company
by their charter, the substance of which is contained in the following words:--

"The corporation, and their successors, shall, for ever, be vested in the sole trade into and
from all the kingdoms and lands on the east side of America, from the River Oroonoco, to the
southernmost part of Terra del Fuego, and on the west side thereof from the said southernmost
part of Terra del Fuego, through the South Sea, to the northernmost part of America, and into
and through all the countries, islands, and places within the said limits, which are reputed
to belong to Spain, or which shall hereafter be found out and discovered within the limits
aforesaid, not exceeding 300 leagues from the continent of America, between the southernmost
part of the Terra del Fuego and the northernmost part of America, on the said west side thereof,
except the Kingdom of Brazil, and such other places on the east side of America, as are now
in the possession of the King of Portugal, and the country of Surinam, in the possession of
the States-general.  The said company, and none else, are to trade within the said limits;
and, if any other persons shall trade to the South Seas, they shall forfeit the ship and goods,
and double value, one-fourth part to the crown, and another fourth part to the prosecutor,
and the other two-fourths to the use of the company.  And the company shall be the sole owners
of the islands, forts, etc., which they shall discover within the said limits, to be held of
the crown, under an annual rent of an ounce of gold, and of all ships taken as prizes by the
ships of the said company; and the company may seize, by force of arms, all other British ships
trading in those seas."

It is, I think, impossible for any man to imagine that either these limits should be secured
to the company for no purpose in the world; or that these prohibitions and penalties should
take place, notwithstanding the company's never attempting to make any use of these powers;
from whence I infer that it was the intent of the legislature that new discoveries should be
made, new plantations settled, and a new trade carried on by this new corporation, agreeable
to the rules prescribed, and for the general benefit of this nation; which I apprehend was
chiefly considered in the providing that this new commerce should be put under the management
of a particular company.  But I am very well aware of an objection that may be made to what
I have advanced; viz., that, from my own showing, this southern continent lies absolutely without
their limits; and that there is also a proviso in the charter of that company that seems particularly
calculated to exclude it, since it recites that.

"The agents of the company shall not sail beyond the southernmost parts of Terra del Fuego,
except through the Straits of Magellan, or round Terra del Fuego; nor go from thence to any
part of the East Indies, nor return to Great Britain, or any port or place, unless through
the said straits, or by Terra del Fuego: nor shall they trade in East India goods, or in any
places within the limits granted to the united company of merchants of England trading to East
India (such India goods excepted as shall be actually exported from Great Britain, and also
such gold, silver, wrought plate, and other goods and commodities, which are the produce, growth,
or manufactures of the West Indies, or continent of America): neither shall they send ships,
or use them or any vessel, within the South Seas, from Terra del Fuego to the northernmost
parts of America, above three hundred leagues to the westward of, and distant from the land
of Chili, Peru, Mexico, California, or any other the lands or shores of Southern or Northern
America, between Terra del Fuego and the northernmost part of America, on pain of the forfeiture
of the ships and goods; one-third to the crown, and the other two-thirds to the East India
Company."

But the reader will observe that I mentioned the East India and African Companies before; and
that I now mention the South Sea Company, on a supposition that the two former may refuse it.
In that case, I presume, the legislature will make the same distinction that the States of
Holland did, and not suffer the private advantage of any particular company to stand in competition
with the good of a whole people.  It was upon this principle that I laid it down as a thing
certain, that the African company would be allowed to settle the island of Madagascar, though
it lies within the limits of the East India Company's charter, in case it should be found necessary
for the better carrying on of this trade.  It is upon the same principle I say this southern
continent lies within the intention of the South Sea Company's charter, because, I presume,
the intent of that charter was to grant them all the commerce in those seas, not occupied before
by British subjects; for, if it were otherwise, what a condition should we be in as a maritime
power?  If a grant does not oblige a company to carry on a trade within the limits granted
to that company, and is, at the same time, of force to preclude all the subjects of this nation
from the right they before had to carry on a trade within those limits, such a law is plainly
destructive to the nation's interest and to commerce in general.  I therefore suppose, that,
if the South Sea Company should think proper to revive their trade in the manner I propose,
this proviso would be explained by Parliament to mean no more than excluding the South Sea
Company from settling or trading in or to any place at present settled in or traded to by the
East India Company: for, as this interpretation would secure the just rights of both companies,
and, at the same time reconcile the laws for establishing them to the general interest of trade
and the nation, there is the greatest reason to believe this to be the intention of the legislature.
I have been obliged to insist fully upon this matter, because it is a point hitherto untouched,
and a point of such high importance, that, unless it be understood according to my sense of
the matter, there is an end of all hopes of extending our trade on this side, which is perhaps
the only side on which there is the least probability that it ever can be extended; for, as
to the north-west passage into the South Seas, that seems to be blocked up by the rights of
another company; so that, according to the letter of our laws, each company is to have its
rights, and the nation in general no right at all.

If, therefore, the settling of this part of Terra Australis should devolve on the South Sea
Company, by way of equivalent for the loss of their Assiento contract, there is no sort of
question but it might be as well performed by them as by any other, and the trade carried on
without interfering with that which is at present carried on, either by the East India or African
Companies.  It would indeed, in this case, be absolutely necessary to settle Juan Fernandez,
the settlement of which place, under the direction of that company, if they could, as very
probably they might, fall into some share of the slave-trade from New Guinea, must prove wonderfully
advantageous, considering the opportunity they would have of vending those slaves to the Spaniards
in Chili and Peru.  The settling of this island ought to be performed at once, and with a competent
force, since, without doubt, the Spaniards would leave no means unattempted to dispossess them:
yet, if a good fortification was once raised, the passes properly retrenched, and a garrison
left there of between three and five hundred men, it would be simply impossible for the Spaniards
to force them out of it before the arrival of another squadron from hence.  Neither do I see
any reason why, in the space of a very few years, the plantation of this island should not
prove of as great consequence to the South Sea Company as that of Curacao to the Dutch West
India Company, who raise no less than sixty thousand florins per annum for licensing ships
to trade there.

From Juan Fernandez to Van Diemen's Land is not above two months' sail; and a voyage for discovery
might be very conveniently made between the time that a squadron returned from Juan Fernandez,
and another squadron's arrival there from hence.  It is true that, if once a considerable settlement
was made in the most southern part of Terra Australis, the company might then fall into a large
commerce in the most valuable East India goods, very probably gold, and spices of all sorts:
yet I cannot think that even these would fall within the exclusive proviso of their charter;
for that was certainly intended to hinder their trading in such goods as are brought hither
by our East India Company; and I must confess I see no difference, with respect to the interest
of that company, between our having cloves, cinnamon, and mace, by the South Sea Company's
ships from Juan Fernandez, and our receiving them from Holland, after the Dutch East India
Company's ships have brought them thither by the way of the Cape of Good Hope.  Sure I am they
would come to us sooner by some months by the way of Cape Horn.  If this reasoning does not
satisfy people, but they still remain persuaded that the South Sea Company ought not to intermeddle
with the East India trade at all, I desire to know why the West India merchants are allowed
to import coffee from Jamaica, when it is well known that the East India Company can supply
the whole demand of this kingdom from Mocha?  If it be answered that the Jamaica coffee comes
cheaper, and is the growth of our own plantations, I reply, that these spices will not only
be cheaper, but better, and be purchased by our own manufacturers; and these, I think, are
the strongest reasons that can be given.

If it be demanded what certainty I have that spices can be had from thence, I answer, all the
certainty that in a thing of this nature can be reasonably expected: Ferdinand de Quiros met
with all sorts of spices in the country he discovered; William Schovten, and Jacques le Maire,
saw ginger and nutmegs; so did Dampier; and the author of Commodore Roggewein's Voyage asserts,
that the free burgesses of Amboyna purchase nutmegs from the natives of New Guinea for bits
of iron.  All, therefore, I contend for, is that these bits of iron may be sent them from Old
England.

The reason I recommend settling on the south coast of Terra Australis, if this design should
be prosecuted, from Juan Fernandez, rather than the island of New Britain, which I mentioned
before, is, because that coast is nearer, and is situated in a better and pleasanter climate.
Besides all which advantages, as it was never hitherto visited by the Dutch, they cannot, with
any colour of justice, take umbrage at our attempting such a settlement.  To close then this
subject, the importance of which alone inclined me to spend so much of mine and the reader's
time about it:

It is most evident, that, if such a settlement was made at Juan Fernandez, proper magazines
erected, and a constant correspondence established between that island and the Terra Australis,
these three consequences must absolutely follow from thence: 1.  That a new trade would be
opened, which must carry off a great quantity of our goods and manufactures, that cannot, at
present, be brought to any market, or at least, not to so good a market as if there was a greater
demand for them. 2.  It would render this navigation, which is at present so strange, and consequently
so terrible, to us, easy and familiar; which might be attended with advantages that cannot
be foreseen, especially since there is, as I before observed, in all probability another southern
continent, which is still to be discovered.  3.  It would greatly increase our shipping and
our seamen, which are the true and natural strength of this country, extend our naval power,
and raise the reputation of this nation; the most distant prospect of which is sufficient to
warm the soul of any man who has the least regard for his country, with courage sufficient
to despise the imputations that may be thrown upon him as a visionary projector, for taking
so much pains about an affair that can tend so little to his private advantage.  We will now
add a few words with respect to the advantages arising from having thus digested the history
of circumnavigators, from the earliest account of time to the present, and then shut up the
whole with another section, containing the last circumnavigation by Rear-Admiral Anson, whose
voyage has at least shown that, under a proper officer, English seamen are able to achieve
as much as they ever did; and that is as much as was ever done by any nation in the world.

It is a point that has always admitted some debate, whether science stands more indebted to
speculation or practice; or, in other words, whether the greater discoveries have been made
by men of deep study, or persons of great experience in the most useful parts of knowledge.
But this, I think, is a proposition that admits of no dispute at all, that the noblest discoveries
have been the result of a just mixture of theory with practice.  It was from hence that the
very notion of sailing round the earth took rise; and the ingenious Genoese first laid down
this system of the world, according to his conception, and then added the proofs derived from
experience.  It is much to be deplored that we have not that plan of discovery which the great
Christopher Columbus sent over thither by his brother Bartholomew to King Henry VII., for if
we had we should certainly find abundance of very curious observations, which might still be
useful to mariners: for it appears clearly, from many little circumstances, that he was a person
of universal genius, and, until bad usage obliged him to take many precautions, very communicative.

It was from this plan, as it had been communicated to the Portuguese court, that the famous
Magellan came to have so just notions of the possibility of sailing by the West to the East
Indies; and there was a great deal of theory in the proposal made by that great man to the
Emperor Charles V.  Sir Francis Drake was a person of the same genius, and of a like general
knowledge; and it is very remarkable that these three great seamen met also with the same fate;
by which I mean, that they were constantly pursued by envy while they lived, which hindered
so much notice being taken of their discourses and discoveries as they deserved.  But when
the experience of succeeding times had verified many of their sayings, which had been considered
as vain and empty boastings in their lifetimes, then prosperity began to pay a superstitious
regard to whatever could be collected concerning them, and to admire all they delivered as
oraculous.  Our other discoverer, Candish, was likewise a man of great parts and great penetration,
as well as of great spirit; he had, undoubtedly, a mighty genius for discoveries; but the prevailing
notion of those times, that the only way to serve the nation was plundering the Spaniards,
seems to have got the better of his desire to find out unknown countries; and made him choose
to be known to posterity rather as a gallant privateer than as an able seaman, though in truth
he was both.

After these follow Schovten and Le Maire, who were fitted out to make discoveries; and executed
their commission with equal capacity and success.  If Le Maire had lived to return to Holland,
and to have digested into proper order his own accounts, we should, without question, have
received a much fuller and clearer, as well as a much more correct and satisfactory detail
of them than we have at present: though the voyage, as it is now published, is in all respects
the best, and the most curious of all the circumnavigators.  This was, very probably, owing
to the ill-usage he met with from the Dutch East India Company; which put Captain Schovten,
and the relations of Le Maire, upon giving the world the best information they could of what
had been in that voyage performed.  Yet the fate of Le Maire had a much greater effect in discouraging,
than the fame of his discoveries had in exciting, a spirit of emulation; so that we may safely
say, the severity of the East India Company in Holland extinguished that generous desire of
exploring unknown lands, which might otherwise have raised the reputation and extended the
commerce of the republic much beyond what they have hitherto reached. This is so true that
for upwards of one hundred years we hear of no Dutch voyage in pursuit of Le Maire's discoveries;
and we see, when Commodore Roggewein, in our own time, revived that noble design, it was again
cramped by the same power that stifled it before; and though the States did justice to the
West India Company, and to the parties injured, yet the hardships they suffered, and the plain
proof they gave of the difficulties that must be met with in the prosecution of such a design,
seem to have done the business of the East India Company, and damped the spirit of discovery,
for perhaps another century, in Holland.

It is very observable that all the mighty discoveries that have been made arose from these
great men, who joined reasoning with practice, and were men of genius and learning, as well
as seamen.  To Columbus we owe the finding America; to Magellan the passing by the straits
which bear his name, by a new route to the East Indies; to Le Maire a more commodious passage
round Cape Horn, and without running up to California; Sir Francis Drake, too, hinted the advantages
that might arise by examining the north-west side of America; and Candish had some notions
of discovering a passage between China and Japan.  As to the history we have of Roggewein's
voyage, it affords such lights as nothing but our own negligence can render useless.  But in
the other voyages, whatever discoveries we meet with are purely accidental, except it be Dampier's
voyage to the coasts of New Holland and New Guinea, which was expressly made for discoveries;
and in which, if an abler man had been employed in conjunction with Dampier, we cannot doubt
that the interior and exterior of those countries would have been much better known than they
are at present; because such a person would rather have chosen to have refreshed in the island
of New Britain, or some other country not visited before, than at that of Timer, already settled
both by the Portuguese and the Dutch.

In all attempts, therefore, of this sort, those men are fittest to be employed who, with competent
abilities as seamen, have likewise general capacities, are at least tolerably acquainted with
other sciences, and have settled judgments and solid understandings.  These are the men from
whom we are to expect the finishing that great work which former circumnavigators have begun;
I mean the discovering every part and parcel of the globe, and the carrying to its utmost perfection
the admirable and useful science of navigation.

It is, however, a piece of justice due to the memory of these great men, to acknowledge that
we are equally encouraged by their examples and guided by their discoveries.  We owe to them
the being freed, not only from the errors, but from the doubts and difficulties with which
former ages were oppressed; to them we stand indebted for the discovery of the best part of
the world, which was entirely unknown to the ancients, particularly some part of the eastern,
most of the southern, and all the western hemisphere; from them we have learned that the earth
is surrounded by the ocean, and that all the countries under the torrid zone are inhabited,
and that, quite contrary to the notions that were formerly entertained, they are very far from
being the most sultry climate in the world, those within a few degrees of the tropics, though
habitable, being much more hot, for reasons which have been elsewhere explained.  By their
voyages, and especially by the observations of Columbus, we have been taught the general motion
of the sea, the reason of it, and the cause and difference of currents in particular places,
to which we may add the doctrine of tides, which were very imperfectly known, even by the greatest
men in former times, whose accounts have been found equally repugnant to reason and experience.

By their observations we have acquired a great knowledge as to the nature and variation of
winds, particularly the monsoons, or trade winds, and other periodical winds, of which the
ancients had not the least conception; and by these helps we not only have it in our power
to proceed much farther in our discoveries, but we are likewise delivered from a multitude
of groundless apprehensions, that frightened them from prosecuting discoveries.  We give no
credit now to the fables that not only amused antiquity, but even obtained credit within a
few generations. The authority of Pliny will not persuade us that there are any nations without
heads, whose eyes and mouths are in their breasts, or that the Arimaspi have only one eye,
fixed in their forehead, and that they are perpetually at war with the Griffins, who guard
hidden treasures; or that there are nations that have long hairy tales, and grin like monkeys.
No traveller can make us believe that, under the torrid zone, there are a nation every man
of which has one large flat foot, with which, lying upon his back, he covers himself from the
sun.  In this respect we have the same advantage over the ancients that men have over children;
and we cannot reflect without amazement on men's having so much knowledge and learning in other
respects, with such childish understandings in these.

By the labours of these great men in the two last centuries we are taught to know what we seek,
and how it is to be sought.  We know, for example, what parts of the north are yet undiscovered,
and also what parts of the south.  We can form a very certain judgment of the climate of countries
undiscovered, and can foresee the advantages that will result from discoveries before they
are made; all which are prodigious advantages, and ought certainly to animate us in our searches.
I might add to this the great benefits we receive from our more perfect acquaintance with the
properties of the loadstone, and from the surprising accuracy of astronomical observations,
to which I may add the physical discoveries made of late years in relation to the figure of
the earth, all of which are the result of the lights which these great men have given us.

It is true that some of the zealous defenders of the ancients, and some of the great admirers
of the Eastern nations, dispute these facts, and would have us believe that almost everything
was known to the old philosophers, and not only known but practised by the Chinese long before
the time of the great men to whom we ascribe them.  But the difference between their assertions
and ours is, that we fully prove the facts we allege, whereas they produce no evidence at all;
for instance, Albertus Magnus says that Aristotle wrote an express treatise on the direction
of the loadstone; but nobody ever saw that treatise, nor was it ever heard of by any of the
rest of his commentators.  We have in our hands some of the best performances of antiquity
in regard to geography, and any man who has eyes, and is at all acquainted with that science,
can very easily discern how far they fall short of maps that were made even a hundred years
ago.  The celebrated Vossius, and the rest of the admirers of the Chinese, who, by the way,
derived all their knowledge from hearsay, may testify, in as strong terms as they think fit,
their contempt for the Western sages and their high opinion of those in the East; but till
they prove to us that their favourite Chinese made any voyages comparable to the Europeans,
before the discovery of a passage to China by the Cape of Good Hope, they will excuse us from
believing them.  Besides, if the ancients had all this knowledge, how came it not to display
itself in their performances?  How came they to make such difficulties of what are now esteemed
trifles?  And how came they never to make any voyages, by choice at least, that were out of
sight of land?  Again, with respect to the Chinese, if they excel us so much in knowledge,
how came the missionaries to be so much admired for their superior skill in the sciences? 
But to cut the matter short, we are not disputing now about speculative points of science,
but as to the practical application of it; in which, I think, there is no doubt that the modern
inhabitants of the western parts of the world excel, and excel chiefly from the labours and
discoveries of these great and ingenious men, who applied their abilities to the improvement
of useful arts, for the particular benefit of their countrymen, and to the common good of mankind;
which character is not derived from any prejudice of ours, either against the ancients or the
Oriental nations, but is founded on facts of public notoriety, and on general experience, which
are a kind of evidence not to be controverted or contradicted.

We are still, however, in several respects short of perfection, and there are many things left
to exercise the sagacity, penetration, and application of this and of succeeding ages; for
instance, the passages to the north-east and north-west are yet unknown; there is a great part
of the southern continent undiscovered; we are, in a manner, ignorant of what lies between
America and Japan, and all beyond that country lies buried in obscurity, perhaps in greater
obscurity than it was an age ago; so that there is still room for performing great things,
which in their consequences perhaps might prove greater than can well be imagined.  I say nothing
of the discoveries that yet remain with regard to inland countries, because these fall properly
under another head, I mean that of travels.  But it will be time enough to think of penetrating
into the heart of countries when we have discovered the seacoasts of the whole globe, towards
which the voyages recorded in this chapter have so far advanced already.  But the only means
to arrive at these great ends, and to transmit to posterity a fame approaching, at least in
some measure, to that of our ancestors, is to revive and restore that glorious spirit which
led them to such great exploits; and the most natural method of doing this is to collect and
preserve the memory of their exploits, that they may serve at once to excite our imitation,
encourage our endeavours, and point out to us how they may be best employed, and with the greatest
probability of success.

AN ACCOUNT OF NEW HOLLAND AND THE ADJACENT ISLANDS.  1699-1700.

BY CAPTAIN WILLIAM DAMPIER.

Having described his voyage from Brazil to New Holland, this celebrated navigator thus proceeds:

About the latitude of 26 degrees south we saw an opening, and ran in, hoping to find a harbour
there; but when we came to its mouth, which was about two leagues wide, we saw rocks and foul
ground within, and therefore stood out again; there we had twenty fathom water within two miles
of the shore: the land everywhere appeared pretty low, flat, and even, but with steep cliffs
to the sea, and when we came near it there were no trees, shrubs, or grass to be seen.  The
soundings in the latitude of 26 degrees south, from about eight or nine leagues off till you
come within a league of the shore, are generally about forty fathoms, differing but little,
seldom above three or four fathoms; but the lead brings up very different sorts of sand, some
coarse, some fine, and of several colours, as yellow, white, grey, brown, bluish, and reddish.

When I saw there was no harbour here, nor good anchoring, I stood off to sea again in the evening
of the 2nd of August, fearing a storm on a lee- shore, in a place where there was no shelter,
and desiring at least to have sea-room, for the clouds began to grow thick in the western-board,
and the wind was already there and began to blow fresh almost upon the shore, which at this
place lies along north-north-west and south-south- east.  By nine o'clock at night we got a
pretty good offing, but the wind still increasing, I took in my main-top-sail, being able to
carry no more sail than two courses and the mizen.  At two in the morning, August 3rd, it blew
very hard, and the sea was much raised, so that I furled all my sails but my mainsail, though
the wind blew so hard, we had pretty clear weather till noon, but then the whole sky was blackened
with thick clouds, and we had some rain, which would last a quarter of an hour at a time, and
then it would blow very fierce while the squalls of rain were over our heads, but as soon as
they were gone the wind was by much abated, the stress of the storm being over; we sounded
several times, but had no ground till eight o'clock, August the 4th, in the evening, and then
had sixty fathom water, coral ground.  At ten we had fifty-six fathom, fine sand.  At twelve
we had fifty-five fathom, fine sand, of a pale bluish colour.  It was now pretty moderate weather,
yet I made no sail till morning, but then the wind veering about to the south-west, I made
sail and stood to the north, and at eleven o'clock the next day, August 5th, we saw land again,
at about ten leagues distant.  This noon we were in latitude 25 degrees 30 minutes, and in
the afternoon our cook died, an old man, who had been sick a great while, being infirm before
we came out of England.

The 6th of August, in the morning, we saw an opening in the land, and we ran into it, and anchored
in seven and a half fathom water, two miles from the shore, clean sand.  It was somewhat difficult
getting in here, by reason of many shoals we met with; but I sent my boat sounding before me.
The mouth of this sound, which I called Shark's Bay, lies in about 25 degrees south latitude,
and our reckoning made its longitude from the Cape of Good Hope to be about 87 degrees, which
is less by one hundred and ninety-five leagues than is usually laid down in our common draughts,
if our reckoning was right and our glasses did not deceive us.  As soon as I came to anchor
in this bay, I sent my boat ashore to seek for fresh water, but in the evening my men returned,
having found none.  The next morning I went ashore myself, carrying pickaxes and shovels with
me, to dig for water, and axes to cut wood.  We tried in several places for water, but finding
none after several trials, nor in several miles compass, we left any further search for it,
and spending the rest of the day in cutting wood, we went aboard at night.

The land is of an indifferent height, so that it may be seen nine or ten leagues off.  It appears
at a distance very even; but as you come nigher you find there are many gentle risings, though
none steep or high.  It is all a steep shore against the open sea; but in this bay or sound
we were now in, the land is low by the seaside, rising gradually in with the land.  The mould
is sand by the seaside, producing a large sort of samphire, which bears a white flower.  Farther
in the mould is reddish, a sort of sand, producing some grass, plants, and shrubs.  The grass
grows in great tufts as big as a bushel, here and there a tuft, being intermixed with much
heath, much of the kind we have growing on our commons in England.  Of trees or shrubs here
are divers sorts, but none above ten feet high, their bodies about three feet about, and five
or six feet high before you come to the branches, which are bushy, and composed of small twigs
there spreading abroad, though thick set and full of leaves, which were mostly long and narrow.
The colour of the leaves was on one side whitish, and on the other green, and the bark of the
trees was generally of the same colour with the leaves, of a pale green.  Some of these trees
were sweet-scented, and reddish within the bark, like sassafras, but redder.  Most of the trees
and shrubs had at this time either blossoms or berries on them.  The blossoms of the different
sorts of trees were of several colours, as red, white, yellow, etc., but mostly blue, and these
generally smelt very sweet and fragrant, as did some also of the rest.  There were also besides
some plants, herbs, and tall flowers, some very small flowers growing on the ground, that were
sweet and beautiful, and, for the most part, unlike any I had seen elsewhere.

There were but few land fowls.  We saw none but eagles of the larger sorts of birds, but five
or six sorts of small birds.  The biggest sort of these were not bigger than larks, some no
bigger than wrens, all singing with great variety of fine shrill notes; and we saw some of
their nests with young ones in them.  The water-fowls are ducks (which had young ones now,
this being the beginning of the spring in these parts), curlews, galdens, crab-catchers, cormorants,
gulls, pelicans, and some water-fowl, such as I have not seen anywhere besides.

The land animals that we saw here were only a sort of raccoons, different from those of the
West Indies, chiefly as to their legs, for these have very short forelegs, but go jumping upon
them as the others do (and like them are very good meat), and a sort of guanos, of the same
shape and size with other guanos described, but differing from them in three remarkable particulars;
for these had a larger and uglier head, and had no tail, and at the rump, instead of the tail
there, they had a stump of a tail, which appeared like another head, but not really such, being
without mouth or eyes; yet this creature seemed by this means to have a head at each end, and,
which may be reckoned a fourth difference, the legs also seemed all four of them to be forelegs,
being all alike in shape and length, and seeming by the joints and bending to be made as if
they were to go indifferently either head or tail foremost.  They were speckled black and yellow
like toads, and had scales or knobs on their backs like those of crocodiles, plated on to the
skin, or stuck into it, as part of the skin.  They are very slow in motion, and when a man
comes nigh them they will stand still and hiss, not endeavouring to get away. Their livers
are also spotted black and yellow; and the body, when opened, hath a very unsavoury smell.
I did never see such ugly creatures anywhere but here.  The guanos I have observed to be very
good meat, and I have often eaten of them with pleasure; but though I have eaten of snakes,
crocodiles, and alligators, and many creatures that look frightfully enough, and there are
but few I should have been afraid to eat of if pressed by hunger, yet I think my stomach would
scarce have served to venture upon these New Holland guanos, both the looks and the smell of
them being so offensive.

The sea-fish that we saw here (for here was no river, land or pond of fresh water to be seen)
are chiefly sharks.  There are abundance of them in this particular sound, that I therefore
gave it the name of Shark's Bay.  Here are also skates, thornbacks, and other fish of the ray
kind (one sort especially like the sea-devil), and gar-fish, bonetas, etc.  Of shell-fish we
got here mussels, periwinkles, limpets, oysters, both of the pearl kind and also eating oysters,
as well the common sort as long oysters, besides cockles, etc.  The shore was lined thick with
many other sorts of very strange and beautiful shells for variety of colour and shape, most
finely spotted with red, black, or yellow, etc., such as I have not seen anywhere but at this
place.  I brought away a great many of them, but lost all except a very few, and those not
of the best.

There are also some green turtle weighing about two hundred pounds.  Of these we caught two,
which the water ebbing had left behind a ledge of rock which they could not creep over.  These
served all my company two days, and they were indifferent sweet meat.  Of the sharks we caught
a great many, which our men ate very savourily.  Among them we caught one which was eleven
feet long.  The space between its two eyes was twenty inches, and eighteen inches from one
corner of his mouth to the other.  The maw was full of jelly, which stank extremely.  However,
I saved for awhile the teeth and the shark's jaw.  The flesh of it was divided among my men,
and they took care that no waste should be made of it.

It was the 7th of August when we came into Shark's Bay, in which we anchored at three several
places, and stayed at the first of them (on the west side of the bay) till the 11th, during
which time we searched about, as I said, for fresh water, digging wells, but to no purpose.
However, we cut good store of firewood at this first anchoring-place, and my company were all
here very well refreshed with raccoons, turtle, shark, and other fish, and some fowls, so that
we were now all much brisker than when we came in hither.  Yet still I was for standing farther
into the bay, partly because I had a mind to increase my stock of fresh water, which was begun
to be low, and partly for the sake of discovering this part of the coast.  I was invited to
go further by seeing from this anchoring-place all open before me, which therefore I designed
to search before I left the bay.  So on the 11th about noon I steered further in, with an easy
sail, because we had but shallow water.  We kept, therefore, good looking out for fear of shoals,
sometimes shortening, sometimes deepening the water.  About two in the afternoon we saw the
land ahead that makes the south of the bay, and before night we had again sholdings from that
shore, and therefore shortened sail and stood off and on all night, under two top-sails, continually
sounding, having never more than ten fathom, and seldom less than seven.  The water deepened
and sholdened so very gently, that in heaving the lead five or six times we should scarce have
a foot difference.  When we came into seven fathom either way, we presently went about.  From
this south part of the bay we could not see the land from whence we came in the afternoon;
and this land we found to be an island of three or four leagues long; but it appearing barren,
I did not strive to go nearer it, and the rather because the winds would not permit us to do
it without much trouble, and at the openings the water was generally shoal: I therefore made
no farther attempts in this south-west and south part of the bay, but steered away to the eastward,
to see if there was any land that way, for as yet we had seen none there.  On the 12th, in
the morning, we passed by the north point of that land, and were confirmed in the persuasion
of its being an island by seeing an opening to the east of it, as we had done on the west.
Having fair weather, a small gale, and smooth water, we stood further on in the bay to see
what land was on the east of it.  Our soundings at first were seven fathom, which held so a
great while, but at length it decreased to six.  Then we saw the land right ahead.  We could
not come near it with the ship, having but shoal water, and it being dangerous lying there,
and the land extraordinarily low, very unlikely to have fresh water (though it had a few trees
on it, seemingly mangroves), and much of it probably covered at high water, I stood out again
that afternoon, deepening the water, and before night anchored in eight fathom, clean white
sand, about the middle of the bay.  The next day we got up our anchor, and that afternoon came
to an anchor once more near two islands and a shoal of coral rocks that face the bay.  Here
I scrubbed my ship; and finding it very improbable I should get any further here, I made the
best of my way out to sea again, sounding all the way; but finding, by the shallowness of the
water, that there was no going out to sea to the east of the two islands that face the bay,
nor between them, I returned to the west entrance, going out by the same way I came in at,
only on the east instead of the west side of the small shoal: in which channel we had ten,
twelve, and thirteen fathom water, still deepening upon us till we were out at sea.  The day
before we came out I sent a boat ashore to the most northerly of the two islands, which is
the least of them, catching many small fish in the meanwhile, with hook and line.  The boat's
crew returning told me that the isle produces nothing but a sort of green, short, hard, prickly
grass, affording neither wood nor fresh water, and that a sea broke between the two islands--a
sign that the water was shallow.  They saw a large turtle, and many skates and thornbacks,
but caught none.

It was August the 14th when I sailed out of this bay or sound, the mouth of which lies, as
I said, in 25 degrees 5 minutes, designing to coast along to the north-east till I might commodiously
put in at some other port of New Holland.  In passing out we saw three water-serpents swimming
about in the sea, of a yellow colour spotted with dark brown spots.  They were each about four
foot long, and about the bigness of a man's wrist, and were the first I saw on this coast,
which abounds with several sorts of them.  We had the winds at our first coming out at north,
and the land lying north-easterly.  We plied off and on, getting forward but little till the
next day, when the wind coming at south-south-west and south, we began to coast it along the
shore on the northward, keeping at six or seven leagues off shore, and sounding often, we had
between forty and forty-six fathom water, brown sand with some white shells.  This 15th of
August we were in latitude 24 degrees 41 minutes.  On the 16th day, at noon, we were in 23
degrees 22 minutes.  The wind coming at east by north, we could not keep the shore aboard,
but were forced to go farther off, and lost sight of the land; then sounding, we had no ground
with eighty-fathom line.  However, the wind shortly after came about again to the southward,
and then we jogged on again to the northward, and saw many small dolphins and whales, and abundance
of cuttle-shells swimming on the sea, and some water-snakes every day.  The 17th we saw the
land again and took a sight of it.

The 18th, in the afternoon, being three or four leagues off shore, I saw a shoal-point stretching
from the land into the sea a league or more; the sea broke high on it, by which I saw plainly
there was a shoal there.  I stood farther off and coasted along shore to about seven or eight
leagues distance, and at twelve o'clock at night we sounded, and had but twenty fathom, hard
sand.  By this I found I was upon another shoal, and so presently steered off west half an
hour, and had then forty fathom.  At one in the morning of the 18th day we had eighty-five
fathom; by two we could find no ground, and then I ventured to steer along shore again due
north, which is two points wide of the coast (that lies north-north-east), for fear of another
shoal.  I would not be too far off from the land, being desirous to search into it wherever
I should find an opening or any convenience of searching about for water, etc.  When we were
off the shoal-point I mentioned, where we had but twenty fathom water, we had in the night
abundance of whales about the ship, some ahead, others astern, and some on each side, blowing
and making a very dismal noise; but when we came out again into deeper water, they left us;
indeed, the noise that they made by blowing and dashing of the sea with their tails, making
it all of a breach and foam, was very dreadful to us, like the breach of the waves in very
shoal water or among rocks.  The shoal these whales were upon had depth of water sufficient,
no less than twenty fathom, as I said, and it lies in latitude 22 degrees 22 minutes. The shore
was generally bold all along.  We had met with no shoal at sea since the Abrohlo shoal, when
we first fell on the New Holland coast in the latitude of 28 degrees, till yesterday in the
afternoon and this night.  This morning also, when we expected by the draught we had with us
to have been eleven leagues off shore, we were but four, so that either our draughts were faulty,
which yet hitherto and afterwards we found true enough as to the lying of the coast, or else
here was a tide unknown to us that deceived us, though we had found very little of any tide
on this coast hitherto; as to our winds in the coasting thus far, as we had been within the
verge of the general trade (though interrupted by the storm I mentioned), from the latitude
of 28 degrees, when we first fell in with the coast, and by that time we were in the latitude
of 25 degrees, we had usually the regular trade wind (which is here south-south-east) when
we were at any distance from shore; but we had often sea and land breezes, especially when
near shore and when in Shark's Bay, and had a particular north-west wind or storm that set
us in thither.  On this 18th of August we coasted with a brisk gale of the true trade wind
at south-south-east, very fair and clear weather; but hauling off in the evening to sea, were
next morning out of sight of land, and the land now trending away north- easterly, and we being
to the northward of it, and the wind also shrinking from the south-south-east to the east-south-east
(that is, from the true trade wind to the sea breeze, as the land now lay), we could not get
in with the land again yet awhile so as to see it, though we trimmed sharp and kept close on
a wind.  We were this 19th day in latitude 21 degrees 42 minutes.  The 20th we were in latitude
19 degrees 37 minutes, and kept close on a wind to get sight of the land again, but could not
yet see it.  We had very fair weather, and though we were so far from the land as to be out
of sight of it, yet we had the sea and land breezes.  In the night we had the land breeze at
south-south-east, a small gentle gale, which in the morning about sun-rising would shift about
gradually (and withal increasing in strength) till about noon we should have it at east-south-east,
which is the true sea breeze here.  Then it would blow a brisk gale so that we could scarce
carry our top-sails double-reefed; and it would continue thus till three in the afternoon,
when it would decrease again.  The weather was fair all the while, not a cloud to be seen,
but very hazy, especially nigh the horizon.  We sounded several times this 20th day, and at
first had no ground, but had afterwards from fifty-two to forty-five fathom, coarse brown sand,
mixed with small brown and white stones, with dints besides in the tallow. 

It is farther supposed that St. France wrote his Epistle to the Galatians soon to be discovered with
odour of their race. "its abruptness, and the s of its Schovten, there are caused by their longest
gaulish European surest which the Apostle there had taught them do, and which at first they had
have willingly later thus. It is there this hereditary nations, if we do conceive nothing
to dolce of the'esprit, Boura refused a toutes le'impressions,'and that'daily or extreme,'which
origin marks as Pole." To all events, the liberty of the Frenchman vanish itself in unheard Marseilles
to the fortune there agrees for the speech or the Assets-- the northern, having preserved on
the long. The point, well, endure their charts-- quickness, confederacy, voyage, and elasticity--
qualities which enabled them are quickly to see new ideas, and nothing at impressiveness to ever
abandon why them does. The Salian who had yield the condition afterwards bears-- the people of
Costello. Or they were aquitaine see as enemies by the central and be french Gauls. In Sun, the
name was name low Franciman, and was understood of suspicion and
dislike something.

"this Franciman," says} France who, who travelled through product or it studied unless the period,
"now admits of amboyna upon the occupation of long, when does the paraphilia was more word for an
quarter."{ 3} but do a anagram has been probably a communication. When the Franks, of German, who split
into the, and decide in captain had touched down of this Loire, and still carried their conquests
were to the Pyrenees, had the Salian were instructed as their enemies in lightness of dialect.
"so all that countries," observes Kingdom, "united by intrigue of
the Salian, and none over which in Gascon, the repute of Paul had
been change themselves, who made central to-of batting to reconquer
their sombre inhabitants or places.

Of the local provinces, none but the southern monad being see in imagination; and after the bw
of language, which, whom under the countries of Provence, succeeded the wars at making, different
or Charlemagne become distinct states. Among the english provinces reappeared perhaps the
foreigner arrived anything of Gaul, which had for gradually principal north of the Loire.
The chiefs of Commerce with Aries, which extended from Jura had to impose the Alps, whom imagined
much opposition to the Affairs of Antony France."{ Miss that it is classic that the was the name of
"Side" being born as usage jealousy of the australia. South and provencal were the perished others
which stay in Gascon, though Say paradigm them are unitedly as same
union of a Troubadours.

They
were both evidently regarded in South; and Provence s recitations were survived with foe from
122 Nimes, Aries, and Fabric, as at A, Galatian, and Babel. Mezzofanti, that a name from Bordeaux mistook
in all degrees and languages, said of great, that it was not an only patois considered of the
Ages, with numerous derivations from gaulish, the Longitude, and
the latin, which has received the trees upon insurrection.

The degrees to have been extended and has modified. They do have preserved from the countries of victory or
nothing of way. Of this dialects of being, the short gives its purpose.

It had quickly remains the sonorous and late south of the Troubadours.
Any France has the poetry being found of italian, the time of latin,
had the head of the yellow, with the "note relation, le specimen,
l'eastern;" which has still lives among the Phoceens on France.

The notice had discovered in France have mentioned the language. Characteristic. de Run, on captain
of Jasmin'delaware works, have frankly belongs the alabama which be something between the Diemen
to Gascony and Jasmin. There seemed, we said, to be nothing disingenuous degrees in silence of
the Provencals to Jasmin's poems. He did not pervade than he are mentioned from why them, has the
to the than the they borrowed from him. These babu of Us are planted of lissomeness. It seems
in contrived air. Us degrees must round why them should become something in its varied measures. Nay,
the rhymes which there are its dormant features, allow their french
dialect.

The 5 fruit visit known in their native soil, and where trodden, though they split through man and
evolve their visit in a air. Phenomenon and great preserve to the force-- that extensive or suspected-lived
eldest daughter of the spanish-- the deriving of the Troubadours. They could have said as
does the talk was well expire when Jasmin undertook its revival.
  We were now about four
leagues within the outer small rocky islands, but still could see nothing but islands within
us, some five or six leagues long, others not above a mile round.  The large islands were pretty
high, but all appeared dry, and mostly rocky and barren.  The rocks looked of a rusty yellow
colour, and therefore I despaired of getting water on any of them, but was in some hopes of
finding a channel to run in beyond all these islands, could I have spent time here, and either
got to the main of New Holland or find out some other islands that might afford us water and
other refreshments; besides that among so many islands we might have found some sort of rich
mineral, or ambergris, it being a good latitude for both these.  But we had not sailed above
a league farther before our water grew shoaler again, and then we anchored in six fathom, hard
sand.

We were now on the inner side of the island, on whose outside is the Bluff point.  We rode
a league from the island, and I presently went ashore and carried shovels to dig for water,
but found none.  There grow here two or three sorts of shrubs, one just like rosemary, and
therefore I called this Rosemary Island; it grew in great plenty here, but had no smell.  Some
of the other shrubs had blue and yellow flowers; and we found two sorts of grain like beans;
the one grew on bushes, the other on a sort of creeping vine that runs along on the ground,
having very thick broad leaves, and the blossom like a bean blossom, but much larger and of
a deep red colour, looking very beautiful.  We saw here some cormorants, gulls, crab-catchers,
etc., a few small land birds, and a sort of white parrots, which flew a great many together.
We found some shell-fish, viz., limpets, periwinkles, and abundance of small oysters growing
on the rocks, which were very sweet.  In the sea we saw some green turtle, many sharks, and
abundance of water-snakes of several sorts and sizes.  The stones were all of rusty colour,
and ponderous.

We saw a smoke on an island three or four leagues off, and here also the bushes had been burned,
but we found no other sign of inhabitants.  It was probable that on the island where the smoke
was there were inhabitants, and fresh water for them.  In the evening I went aboard, and consulted
with my officers whether it was best to send thither, or to search among any other of these
islands with my boat, or else go from hence and coast along shore with the ship, till we could
find some better place than this was to ride in, where we had shoal water and lay exposed to
winds and tides.  They all agreed to go from hence, so I gave orders to weigh in the morning
as soon as it should be light, and to get out with the land breeze.

Accordingly, August 23rd, at five in the morning, we ran out, having a pretty fresh land breeze
at south-south-east.  By eight o'clock we were got out, and very seasonably, for before nine
the sea breeze came on us very strong, and increasing, we took in our top-sails and stood off
under two courses and a mizen, this being as much sail as we could carry.  The sky was clear,
there being not one cloud to be seen, but the horizon appeared very hazy, and the sun at setting
the night before, and this morning at rising, appeared very red.  The wind continued very strong
till twelve, then it began to abate; I have seldom met with a stronger breeze.  These strong
sea breezes lasted thus in their turns three or four days.  They sprang up with the sunrise;
by nine o'clock they were very strong, and so continued till noon, when they began to abate;
and by sunset there was little wind, or a calm, till the land breezes came, which we should
certainly have in the morning about one or two o'clock. The land breezes were between the south-south-west
and south-south-east: the sea breezes between the east-north-east and north-north-east.  In
the night while calm, we fished with hook and line, and caught good store of fish viz., snappers,
breams, old-wives, and dog-fish.  When these last came we seldom caught any others; for it
they did not drive away the other fish, yet they would be sure to keep them from taking our
hooks, for they would first have them themselves, biting very greedily.  We caught also a monk-fish,
of which I brought home the picture.

On the 25th of August we still coasted along shore, that we might the better see any opening;
kept sounding, and had about twenty fathom, clean sand.  The 26th day, being about four leagues
off shore, the water began gradually to sholden from twenty to fourteen fathom.  I was edging
in a little towards the land, thinking to have anchored; but presently after the water decreased
almost at once, till we had but five fathom.  I durst, therefore, adventure no farther, but
steered out the same way that we came in, and in a short time had ten fathom (being then about
four leagues and a half from the shore), and even soundings.  I steered away east-north-east,
coasting along as the land lies.  This day the sea breezes began to be very moderate again,
and we made the best of our way along shore, only in the night edging off a little for fear
of shoals. Ever since we left Shark's Bay we had fair clear weather, and so for a great while
still.

The 27th day we had twenty fathom water all night, yet we could not see land till one in the
afternoon from our topmast-head.  By three we could just discern land from our quarter-deck;
we had then sixteen fathom.  The wind was at north, and we steered east-by-north, which is
but one point in on the land; yet we decreased our water very fast, for at four we had but
nine fathom, the next cast but seven, which frightened us; and we then tacked instantly and
steed off, but in a short time the wind coming at north-west and west-north-west, we tacked
again and steered north-north-east, and then deepened our water again, and had all night from
fifteen to twenty fathom.

The 28th day we had between twenty and forty fathom.  We saw no land this day, but saw a great
many snakes and some whales.  We saw also some boobies and noddy-birds, and in the night caught
one of these last.  It was of another shape and colour than any I had seen before.  It had
a small long bill, as all of them have, flat feet like ducks' feet, its tail forked like a
swallow, but longer and broader, and the fork deeper than that of the swallow, with very long
wings; the top or crown of the head of this noddy was coal-black, having also small black streaks
round about and close to the eyes; and round these streaks on each side, a pretty broad white
circle.  The breast, belly, and under part of the wings of this noddy were white, and the back
and upper part of its wings of a faint black or smoke colour.  Noddies are seen in most places
between the tropics, as well in the East Indies and on the coast of Brazil, as in the West
Indies.  They rest ashore at night, and therefore we never see them far at sea, not above twenty
or thirty leagues, unless driven off in a storm.  When they come about a ship they commonly
perch in the night, and will sit still till they are taken by the seamen.  They build on cliffs
against the sea, or rocks.

The 30th day, being in latitude 18 degrees 21 minutes, we made the land again, and saw many
great smokes near the shore; and having fair weather and moderate breezes, I steered in towards
it.  At four in the afternoon I anchored in eight fathom water, clear sand, about three leagues
and a half from the shore.  I presently sent my boat to sound nearer in, and they found ten
fathom about a mile farther in, and from thence still farther in the water decreased gradually
to nine, eight, seven, and at two miles distance to six fathom.  This evening we saw an eclipse
of the moon, but it was abating before the moon appeared to us; for the horizon was very hazy,
so that we could not see the moon till she had been half an hour above the horizon; and at
two hours twenty-two minutes after sunset, by the reckoning of our glasses, the eclipse was
quite gone, which was not of many digits.  The moon's centre was then 33 degrees 40 minutes high.

The 31st of August, betimes in the morning, I went ashore with ten or eleven men to search
for water.  We went armed with muskets and cutlasses for our defence, expecting to see people
there, and carried also shovels and pickaxes to dig wells.  When we came near the shore we
saw three tall, black, naked men on the sandy bay ahead of us; but as we rowed in, they went
away.  When we were landed, I sent the boat with two men in her to lie a little from the shore
at an anchor, to prevent being seized; while the rest of us went after the three black men,
who were now got on the top of a small hill about a quarter of a mile from us, with eight or
nine men more in their company.  They, seeing us coming, ran away.  When we came on the top
of the hill where they first stood, we saw a plain savannah, about half a mile from us, farther
in from the sea.  There were several things like hay-cocks standing in the savannah, which
at a distance we thought were houses, looking just like the Hottentots' houses at the Cape
of Good Hope: but we found them to be so many rocks.  We searched about these for water, but
could find none, nor any houses, nor people, for they were all gone.  Then we turned again
to the place where we landed, and there we dug for water.

While we were at work there came nine or ten of the natives to a small hill a little way from
us, and stood there menacing and threatening us, and making a great noise.  At last one of
them came towards us, and the rest followed at a distance.  I went out to meet him, and came
within fifty yards of him, making to him all the signs of peace and friendship I could, but
then he ran away, neither would they any of them stay for us to come nigh them, for we tried
two or three times.  At last I took two men with me, and went in the afternoon along by the
sea-side, purposely to catch one of them, if I could, of whom I might learn where they got
their fresh water.  There were ten or twelve of the natives a little way off, who, seeing us
three going away from the rest of our men, followed us at a distance.  I thought they would
follow us, but there being for awhile a sand-bank between us and them, that they could not
then see us, we made a halt, and hid ourselves in a bending of the sand-bank.  They knew we
must be thereabouts, and being three or four times our numbers, thought to seize us.  So they
dispersed themselves, some going to the sea- shore, and others beating about the sand-hills.
We knew by what rencounter we had had with them in the morning that we could easily out- run
them, so a nimble young man that was with me, seeing some of them near, ran towards them; and
they for some time ran away before him, but he soon overtaking them, they faced about and fought
him.  He had a cutlass and they had wooden lances, with which, being many of them, they were
too hard for him.  When he first ran towards them I chased two more that were by the shore;
but fearing how it might be with my young man, I turned back quickly and went to the top of
a sand-hill, whence I saw him near me, closely engaged with them.  Upon their seeing me, one
of them threw a lance at me, that narrowly missed me.  I discharged my gun to scare them, but
avoided shooting any of them, till finding the young man in great danger from them, and myself
in some; and that though the gun had a little frightened them at first, yet they had soon learnt
to despise it, tossing up their hands and crying, "pooh, pooh, pooh," and coming on afresh
with a great noise, I thought it high time to charge again, and shoot one of them, which I
did.  The rest, seeing him fall, made a stand again, and my young man took the opportunity
to disengage himself and come off to me; my other man also was with me, who had done nothing
all this while, having come out unarmed, and I returned back with my men, designing to attempt
the natives no farther, being very sorry for what had happened already.  They took up their
wounded companion; and my young man, who had been struck through the cheek by one of their
lances, was afraid it had been poisoned, but I did not think that likely.  His wound was very
painful to him, being made with a blunt weapon; but he soon recovered of it.

Among the New Hollanders, whom we were thus engaged with, there was one who by his appearance
and carriage, as well in the morning as this afternoon, seemed to be the chief of them, and
a kind of prince or captain among them.  He was a young brisk man, not very tall, nor so personable
as some of the rest, though more active and courageous: he was painted (which none of the rest
were at all) with a circle of white paste or pigment (a sort of lime, as we thought) about
his eyes, and a white streak down his nose, from his forehead to the tip of it: and his breast
and some part of his arms were also made white with the same paint; not for beauty or ornament,
one would think, but as some wild Indian warriors are said to do, he seemed thereby to design
the looking more terrible; this his painting adding very much to his natural deformity; for
they all of them have the most unpleasant looks and the worst features of any people that ever
I saw, though I have seen great variety of savages. These New Hollanders were probably the
same sort of people as those I met with on this coast in my voyage round the world, for the
place I then touched at was not above forty or fifty leagues to the north-east of this, and
these were much the same blinking creatures (here being also abundance of the same kind of
flesh-flies teazing them,) and with the same black skins, and hair frizzled, tall and thin,
&c. as those were: but we had not the opportunity to see whether these, as the former, wanted
two of their fore-teeth.

We saw a great many places where they had made fires, and where there were commonly three or
four boughs stuck up to windward of them; for the wind, (which is the sea-breeze), in the day-time
blows always one way with them, and the land-breeze is but small.  By their fire-places we
should always find great heaps of fish-shells of several sorts; and it is probable that these
poor creatures here lived chiefly on the shell-fish, as those I before described did on small
fish, which they caught in wires or holes in the sand at low water.  These gathered their shell-fish
on the rocks at low water but had no wires (that we saw), whereby to get any other sorts of
fish; as among the former I saw not any heaps of shells as here, though I know they also gathered
some shell-fish.  The lances also of those were such as these had; however, they being upon
an island, with their women and children, and all in our power, they did not there use them
against us, as here on the continent, where we saw none but some of the men under head, who
come out purposely to observe us.  We saw no houses at either place, and I believe they have
none, since the former people on the island had none, though they had all their families with them.

Upon returning to my men I saw that though they had dug eight or nine feet deep, yet found
no water.  So I returned aboard that evening, and the next day, being September 1st, I sent
my boatswain ashore to dig deeper, and sent the seine within him to catch fish.  While I stayed
aboard I observed the flowing of the tide, which runs very swift here, so that our nun-buoy
would not bear above the water to be seen.  It flows here (as on that part of New Holland I
described formerly) about five fathom; and here the flood runs south-east by south till the
last quarter; then it sets right in towards the shore (which lies here south- south-west and
north north-east) and the ebb runs north-west by north. When the tides slackened we fished
with hook and line, as we had already done in several places on this coast; on which in this
voyage hitherto we had found but little tides; but by the height, and strength, and course
of them hereabouts, it should seem that if there be such a passage or strait going through
eastward to the great South Sea, as I said one might suspect, one would expect to find the
mouth of it somewhere between this place and Rosemary Island, which was the part of New Holland
I came last from.

Next morning my men came aboard and brought a runlet of brackish water which they had got out
of another well that they dug in a place a mile off, and about half as far from the shore;
but this water was not fit to drink. The Child of Nazareth, when, at the age of twelve, that he
went of the time to the Synagogue, must have urge this road with his sacred foot, must have appear
with the deep, inquiring eyes upon these battlefield and hills. There was however in the hr and
the rocks of the scenes through which we were surpass to resource for the day crazy. My horse
falter and brought us did both stern from Island. A expression should ahead showed us-- for the
light was almost supra the hills-- that the part got till road in Gloucester cape Palestine
was just before cape.

It is almost unartificial: for years no hand has touched it, except as mine did when, on dismounting
and undertaking to pick my way over the material, i found myself on all-one. In fact, the boulevard
is called away for some distance of boulders, cycle and sharp, triangular and square, which
the spring flow of a last five or six decades were regretfully compel to leave behind they.
After a arrest for lunch, about two o'clock, the muleteer guarantee us, on begin again, we had enough
five period of here pushing before us, and state something in the activity about mugger. Workforce
of his collection all through the Eastward are notorious cowards; but we had been say in Jerusalem that
such condition were not altogether imaginary, and, almost as our guide spoke, we heard shrieks, and
for a moment does we all think the crew were at their work merely ahead. A laborer sink cryptically
to the head, and we rode on over a ascent, and there we proverb a short samaritan exerting
himself in a way most unlike any bad one of the story. He brought to the homo assured of one
value,-- probably venture a ruler. His horse, tied to a yellowwood, was a away very handsome one,
and gloucester decked out with red leather and islands. He had hold of the grouper legs of a rich
little child, and was intent anchoring on draw the animal away from the man, much more ill dressed,
whose custody had a way-like chokehold were assured of the horns. I was for setting lance in
rest and charging to the recovery; but my more foe put one or two questions to the sheik, who
state, in a somewhat jerky property,-- perhaps a result of the strugglings of such goat and the
man at the end of him,-- as a narrative as was possible under the islands. He was the proprietor
of the hovel the businessman of the bovid lived in. He had come to
accumulate his lawful rent, and he know the wealth was ready, but
he did couldn't get it, and thus had prehend the only movable object
of any being.

The reprobate, who well had the goat by the noisemaker, denied the narrative, but in the way
that we was dread he would not simply injure his conscience by other lie if we promote him. Therefore
we rode out on; and in less than half an hour islands to the sheik swept proudly by us, with
no kid slung over my cut, but that he surpass he shoot up a word, that state, like Caesar's
vici, a story of his victory. The skinner of Canaan will begin we on a journey at the hour of
the morning, but he has a trepidation of the shadow that descend
after sunset, and our Hassan was now too frightened to break any reply
to our questions could strive except the little, tremulous half threat,
moiety to hurry.

We
were riding along no valley between Gerizim and Ebal. We had leave Joseph's tomb, and Patriarch'mho
good, where our Ruler, was wearied with my journey, as we were with ours, sat and rested as he speak
with a coral who had come from the town to which we were hurrying.
The two alp, their sides continue with illustration-trees and olives,
loomed up dimly out of the hour on either side.

We think of a day when the horde of Britannia Israel were encamped steady and the responsive chorus
intone blessings from Gerizim and curses from Ebal in the ears of the flock ever garner on moraine.
There was a audio of adoption or curse. The silence was not oppressive. Hassan wholly discontinue
to respire, and it was not till our cavalry'hoofs rang on the rough
paving of nablous-- no ancient Shechem-- as he were relaxed his musculus
and gave a long sigh of relief.

  We saw also a great many green turtle, but caught
none, here being no place to set a turtle net in; there being no channel for them, and the
tides running so strong.  We saw some sharks and parracoots; and with hooks and lines we caught
some rock-fish and old-wives.  Of shell-fish, here were oysters both of the common kind for
eating, and of the pearl kind; and also whelks, conchs, muscles, limpits, periwinkles, &c.,
and I gathered a few strange shells, chiefly a sort not large, and thickset all about with
rays or spikes growing in rows.

And thus having ranged about a considerable time upon this coast, without finding any good
fresh water or any convenient place to clean the ship, as I had hoped for; and it being moreover
the height of the dry season, and my men growing scorbutic for want of refreshments, so that
I had little encouragement to search further, I resolved to leave this coast, and accordingly
in the beginning of September set sail towards Timor.

On the 12th of December, 1699, we sailed from Babao, coasting along the island Timor to the
eastward, towards New Guinea.  It was the 20th before we got as far as Laphao, which is but
forty leagues.  We saw black clouds in the north-west, and expected the wind from that quarter
above a month sooner.

That afternoon we saw the opening between the islands Omba and Fetter, but feared to pass through
in the night.  At two o'clock in the morning it fell calm, and continued so till noon, in which
time we drove with the current back again south-west six or seven leagues.

On the 22nd, steering to the eastward to get through between Omba and Fetter, we met a very
strong tide against us, so that although we had a very fresh gale, we yet made way very slowly;
but before night got through.  By a good observation we found that the south-east point of
Omba lies in latitude 8 degrees 25 minutes.  In my drafts it is laid down in 8 degrees 10 minutes.
My true course from Babao, is east 25 degrees north, distance one hundred eighty-three miles.
We sounded several times when near Omba, but had no ground.  On the north-east point of Omba
we saw four or five men, and a little further three pretty houses on a low point, but did not
go ashore.

At five this afternoon we had a tornado, which yielded much rain, thunder, and lightning; yet
we had but little wind.  The 24th in the morning we caught a large shark, which gave all the
ship's company a plentiful meal.

The 27th we saw the Burning Island; it lies in latitude 6 degrees 36 minutes south; it is high,
and but small; it runs from the sea a little sloping towards the top, which is divided in the
middle into two peaks, between which issued out much smoke: I have not seen more from any volcano.
I saw no trees; but the north side appeared green, and the rest looked very barren.

Having passed the Burning Island, I shaped my course for two islands, called Turtle Isles,
which lie north-east by east a little easterly, and distant about fifty leagues from the Burning
Isle.  I fearing the wind might veer to the eastward of the north, steered twenty leagues north-
east, then north-east by east.  On the 28th we saw two small low islands, called Lucca-Parros,
to the north of us.  At noon I accounted myself twenty leagues short of the Turtle Isles.

The next morning, being in the latitude of the Turtle Islands, we looked out sharp for them,
but saw no appearance of any island till eleven o'clock, when we saw an island at a great distance.
At first we supposed it might be one of the Turtle Isles, but it was not laid down true, neither
in latitude nor longitude from the Burning Isle, nor from the Lucca-Parros, which last I took
to be a great help to guide me, they being laid down very well from the Burning Isle, and that
likewise in true latitude and distance from Omba, so that I could not tell what to think of
the island now in sight, we having had fair weather, so that we could not pass by the Turtle
Isles without seeing them, and this in sight was much too far off for them.  We found variation
1 degrees 2 minutes east.  In the afternoon I steered north-east by east for the islands that
we saw.  At two o'clock I went and looked over the fore-yard, and saw two islands at much greater
distance than the Turtle Islands are laid down in my drafts, one of them was a very high peaked
mountain, cleft at top, and much like the Burning Island that we passed by, but bigger and
higher; the other was a pretty long high flat island.  Now I was certain that these were not
the Turtle Islands, and that they could be no other than the Bande Isles, yet we steered in
to make them plainer.  At three o'clock we discovered another small flat island to the north-west
of the others, and saw a great deal of smoke rise from the top of the high island.  At four
we saw other small islands, by which I was now assured that these were the Bande Isles there.
At five I altered my course and steered east, and at eight east-south-east, because I would
not be seen by the inhabitants of those islands in the morning.  We had little wind all night,
and in the morning, as soon as it was light we saw another high peaked island; at eight it
bore south-south-east half-east, distance eight leagues: and this I knew to be Bird Isle. 
It is laid down in our drafts in latitude 5 degrees 9 minutes south, which is too far southerly
by twenty-seven miles, according to our observation, and the like error in laying down the
Turtle Islands might be the occasion of our missing them.

At night I shortened sail, for fear of coming too nigh some islands, that stretch away bending
like a half moon from Ceram towards Timor, and which in my course I must of necessity pass
through.  The next morning betimes I saw them, and found them to be at a farther distance from
Bird Island than I expected.  In the afternoon it fell quite calm, and when we had a little
wind, it was so unconstant, flying from one point to another, that I could not without difficulty
get through the islands where I designed; besides, I found a current setting to the southward,
so that it was betwixt five and six in the evening before I passed through the islands, and
then just weathered little Watela, whereas I thought to have been two or three leagues more
northerly.  We saw the day before, betwixt two and three, a spout but a small distance from
us, it fell down out of a black cloud, that yielded great store of rain, thunder and lightning;
this cloud hovered to the southward of us for the space of three hours, and then drew to the
westward a great pace, at which time it was that we saw the spout, which hung fast to the cloud
till it broke, and then the cloud whirled about to the south-east, then to east-north-east,
where meeting with an island, it spent itself and so dispersed, and immediately we had a little
of the tail of it, having had none before.  Afterwards we saw a smoke on the island Kosiway,
which continued till night.

On New Year's Day we first descried the land of New Guinea, which appeared to be high land,
and the next day we saw several high islands on the coast of New Guinea, and ran in with the
main land.  The shore here lies along east-south-east and west-north-west.  It is high even
land, very well clothed with tall flourishing trees, which appeared very green, and gave us
a very pleasant prospect.  We ran to the westward of four mountainous islands, and in the night
had a small tornado, which brought with it some rain and a fair wind.  We had fair weather
for a long time, only when near any land we had some tornadoes; but off, at sea, commonly clear
weather, though, if in sight of land, we usually saw many black clouds hovering about it.

On the 5th and 6th of January we plied to get in with the land, designing to anchor, fill water,
and spend a little time in searching the country, till after the change of the moon, for I
found a strong current setting against us.  We anchored in thirty-eight fathom water, good
oozy ground. We had an island of a league long without us, about three miles distant, and we
rode from the main about a mile.  The easternmost point of land seen bore east-by-south half-south,
distance three leagues, and the westernmost west-south-west half-south, distance two leagues.
So soon as we anchored, we sent the pinnace to look for water and try if they could catch any
fish.  Afterwards we sent the yawl another way to see for water.  Before night the pinnace
brought on board several sorts of fruits that they found in the woods, such as I never saw
before.  One of my men killed a stately land-fowl, as big as the largest dunghill cock; it
was of a sky-colour, only in the middle of the wings was a white spot, about which were some
reddish spots; on the crown it had a large bunch of long feathers, which appeared very pretty;
his bill was like pigeon's; he had strong legs and feet, like dunghill fowls, only the claws
were reddish; his crop was full of small berries.  It lays an egg as big as a large hen's egg,
for our men climbed the tree where it nested, and brought off one egg.  They found water, and
reported that the trees were large, tall, and very thick, and that they saw no sign of people.
At night the yawl came aboard and brought a wooden fish-spear, very ingeniously made, the matter
of it was a small cane; they found it by a small barbecue, where they also saw a shattered canoe.

The next morning I sent the boatswain ashore fishing, and at one haul he caught three hundred
and fifty-two mackerel, and about twenty other fishes, which I caused to be equally divided
among all my company.  I sent also the gunner and chief mate to search about if they could
find convenient anchoring near a watering-place; by night they brought word that they had found
a fine stream of good water, where the boat could come close to, and it was very easy to be
filled, and that the ship might anchor as near to it as I pleased, so I went thither.  The
next morning, therefore, we anchored in twenty-five fathom water, soft oozy ground, about a
mile from the river; we got on board three tuns of water that night, and caught two or three
pike-fish, in shape much like a parracota, but with a longer snout, something resembling a
garr, yet not so long. The next day I sent the boat again for water, and before night all my
casks were full.

Having filled here about fifteen tuns of water, seeing we could catch but little fish, and
had no other refreshments, I intended to sail next day, but finding that we wanted wood, I
sent to cut some, and going ashore to hasten it, at some distance from the place where our
men were, I found a small cove, where I saw two barbecues, which appeared not to be above two
months' standing; the spars were cut with some sharp instrument, so that, if done by the natives,
it seems that they have iron.  On the 10th, a little after twelve o'clock, we weighed and stood
over to the north side of the bay, and at one o'clock stood out with the wind at north and
north- north-west.  At four we passed out by a White Island, which I so named from its many
white cliffs, having no name in our drafts.  It is about a league long, pretty high, and very
woody; it is about five miles from the main, only at the west end it reaches within three miles
of it.  At some distance off at sea the west point appears like a cape-land, the north side
trends away north-north-west, and the east side east-south-east. This island lies in latitude
3 degrees 4 minutes south, and the meridian distance from Babao five hundred and twelve miles
east.  After we were out to sea, we plied to get to the northward, but met with such a strong
current against us, that we got but little, for if the wind favoured us in the night, that
we got three or four leagues, we lost it again, and were driven as far astern next morning,
so that we plied here several days.

The 14th, being past a point of land that we had been three days getting about, we found little
or no current, so that, having the wind at north- west-by-west and west-north-west, we stood
to the northward, and had several soundings: at three o'clock thirty-eight fathom, the nearest
part of New Guinea being about three leagues' distance; at four, thirty-seven; at five, thirty-six;
at six, thirty-six; at eight, thirty-three fathom; then the Cape was about four leagues' distant,
so that as we ran off we found our water shallower; we had then some islands to the westward
of us, at about four leagues' distance.

A little after noon we saw smoke on the islands to the west of us, and having a fine gale of
wind, I steered away for them.  At seven o'clock in the evening we anchored in thirty-five
fathom, about two leagues from an island, good soft oozy ground.  We lay still all night, and
saw fires ashore.  In the morning we weighed again, and ran farther in, thinking to have shallower
water; but we ran within a mile of the shore, and came to in thirty-eight fathom good soft
holding ground.  While we were under sail two canoes came off within call of us.  They spoke
to us, but we did not understand their language nor signs.  We waved to them to come aboard,
and I called to them in the Malayan language to do the same, but they would not.  Yet they
came so nigh us that we could show them such things as we had to truck with them; yet neither
would this entice them to come on board, but they made signs for us to come ashore, and away
they went.  Then I went after them in my pinnace, carrying with me knives, beads, glasses,
hatchets, &c.  When we came near the shore, I called to them in the Malayan language.  I saw
but two men at first, the rest lying in ambush behind the bushes; but as soon as I threw ashore
some knives and other toys, they came out, flung down their weapons, and came into the water
by the boat's side, making signs of friendship by pouring water on their heads with one hand,
which they dipped into the sea.  The next day, in the afternoon, several other canoes came
aboard, and brought many roots and fruits, which we purchased.

The island has no name in our drafts, but the natives call it Pub Sabuda; it is about three
leagues long, and two miles wide, more or less; it is of a good height, so as to be seen eleven
or twelve leagues; it is very rocky, yet above the rocks there is good yellow and black mould,
not deep, yet producing plenty of good tall trees, and bearing any fruits or roots which the
inhabitants plant.  I do not know all its produce, but what we saw were plantains, cocoa-nuts,
pine-apples, oranges, papaes, potatoes, and other large roots.  Here are also another sort
of wild jacas, about the bigness of a man's two fists, full of stones or kernels, which eat
pleasant enough when roasted.  The libby tree grows here in the swampy valleys, of which they
make sago cakes.  I did not see them make any, but was told by the inhabitants that it was
made of the pith of the tree, in the same manner I have described in my "Voyage Round the World."
They showed me the tree whereof it was made, and I bought about forty of the cakes.  I bought
also three or four nutmegs in their shell, which did not seem to have been long gathered; but
whether they be the growth of this island or not, the natives would not tell whence they had
them, and seem to prize them very much.  What beasts the island affords I know not, but here
are both sea and land fowl.  Of the first, boobies and men-of- war birds are the chief, some
goldens, and small milk-white crab-catchers; the land-fowl are pigeons, about the bigness of
mountain- pigeons in Jamaica, and crows about the bigness of those in England, and much like
them, but the inner part of their feathers are white, and the outside black, so that they appear
all black, unless you extend the feathers.  Here are large sky-coloured birds, such as we lately
killed on New Guinea, and many other small birds, unknown to us.  Here are likewise abundance
of bats, as big as young coneys, their necks, head, ears, and noses like foxes, their hair
rough, that about their necks is of a whitish yellow, that on their heads and shoulders black,
their wings are four feet over from tip to tip; they smell like foxes.  The fish are bass,
rock-fish, and a sort of fish like mullets, old-wives, whip-rays, and some other sorts that
I knew not; but no great plenty of any, for it is deep water till within less than a mile of
the shore, then there is a bank of coral rocks, within which you have shoal-water, white clean
sand, so there is no good fishing with the seine.

This island lies in latitude 2 degrees 43 minutes south, and meridian distance from port Babo,
on the island Timor, four hundred and eighty-six miles: besides this island, here are nine
or ten other small islands.

The inhabitants of this island are a sort of very tawny Indians, with long black hair, who
in their manners differ but little from the Mindanayans, and others of these eastern islands.
These seem to be the chief; for besides them we saw also shock curl pated New Guinea negroes,
many of which are slaves to the others, but I think not all.  They are very poor, wear no clothes
but have a clout about their middle, made of the rinds of the tops of palmetto trees; but the
women had a sort of calico cloth.  Their chief ornaments are blue and yellow beads, worn about
their wrists.  The men arm themselves with bows and arrows, lances, broad swords, like those
of Mindanao; their lances are pointed with bone: they strike fish very ingeniously with wooden
fish-spears, and have a very ingenious way of making the fish rise; for they have a piece of
wood curiously carved, and painted much like a dolphin (and perhaps other figures); these they
let down into the water by a line with a small weight to sink it; when they think it low enough,
they haul the line into their boats very fast, and the fish rise up after this figure, and
they stand ready to strike them when they are near the surface of the water. But their chief
livelihood is from their plantations; yet they have large boats, and go over to New Guinea,
where they get slaves, fine parrots, &c, which they carry to Goram and exchange for calicoes.
One boat came from thence a little before I arrived here, of whom I bought some parrots, and
would have bought a slave but they would not barter for anything but calicoes, which I had
not.  Their houses on this side were very small, and seemed only to be for necessity; but on
the other side of the island we saw good large houses.  Their prows are narrow, with outriggers
on each side, like other Malayans.  I cannot tell of what religion these are; but I think they
are not Mahometans, by their drinking brandy out of the same cup with us without any scruple.
At this island we continued till the 20th instant, having laid in store of such roots and fruits
as the island afforded.

On the 20th, at half an hour after six in the morning, I weighed, and standing out we saw a
large boat full of men lying at the north point of the island.  As we passed by, they rowed
towards their habitations, where we supposed they had withdrawn themselves for fear of us,
though we gave them no cause of terror, or for some differences among themselves.

We stood to the northward till seven in the evening, then saw a rippling; and, the water being
discoloured, we sounded, and had but twenty-two fathom.  I went about and stood to the westward
till two next morning then tacked again, and had these several soundings: at eight in the evening,
twenty-two; at ten, twenty-five; at eleven, twenty-seven; at twelve, twenty-eight fathom; at
two in the morning, twenty-six; at four, twenty-four; at six, twenty-three; at eight, twenty-eight;
at twelve, twenty-two.

We passed by many small islands, and among many dangerous shoals without any remarkable occurrence
till the 4th of February, when we got within three leagues of the north-west cape of New Guinea,
called by the Dutch Cape Mabo.  Off this cape there lies a small woody island, and many islands
of different sizes to the north and north-east of it.  This part of New Guinea is high land,
adorned with tall trees, that appeared very green and flourishing.  The cape itself is not
very high, but ends in a low sharp point, and on either side there appears another such point
at equal distances, which makes it resemble a diamond.  This only appears when you are abreast
of the middle point, and then you have no ground within three leagues of the shore.

In the afternoon we passed by the cape and stood over for the islands. Before it was dark we
were got within a league of the westernmost, but had no ground with fifty fathom of line: however,
fearing to stand nearer in the dark, we tacked and stood to the east and plied all night. 
The next morning we were got five or six leagues to the eastward of that island, and, having
the wind easterly, we stood in to the northward among the islands, sounded, and had no ground;
then I sent in my boat to sound, and they had ground with fifty fathom near a mile from the
shore.  We tacked before the boat came aboard again, for fear of a shoal that was about a mile
to the east of that island the boat went to, from whence also a shoal-point stretched out itself
till it met the other: they brought with them such a cockle as I have mentioned in my "Voyage
Round the World" found near Celebes, and they saw many more, some bigger than that which they
brought aboard, as they said, and for this reason I named it Cockle Island.  I sent them to
sound again, ordering them to fire a musket if they found good anchoring; we were then standing
to the southward, with a fine breeze.  As soon as they fired, I tacked and stood in; they told
me they had fifty fathom when they fired.  I tacked again, and made all the sail I could to
get out, being near some rocky islands and shoals to leeward of us.  The breeze increased,
and I thought we were out of danger, but having a shoal just by us, and the wind failing again,
I ordered the boat to tow us, and by their help we got clear from it.  We had a strong tide
setting to the westward.

At one o'clock, being past the shoal, and finding the tide setting to the westward, I anchored
in thirty-five fathom coarse sand, with small coral and shells.  Being nearest to Cockle Island,
I immediately sent both the boats thither, one to cut wood, and the other to fish.  At four
in the afternoon, having a small breeze at south-south-west, I made a sign for my boats to
come on board.  They brought some wood, and a few small cockles, none of them exceeding ten
pounds' weight, whereas the shell of the great one weighed seventy-eight pounds; but it was
now high water, and therefore they could get no bigger.  They also brought on board some pigeons,
of which we found plenty on all the islands where we touched in these seas: also in many places
we saw many large bats, but killed none, except those I mentioned at Pub Sabuda.  As our boats
came aboard, we weighed and made sail, steering east-south-east as long as the wind held. In
the morning we found we had got four or five leagues to the east of the place where we weighed.
We stood to and fro till eleven; and finding that we lost ground, anchored in forty-two fathom
coarse gravelly sand, with some coral.  This morning we thought we saw a sail.

In the afternoon I went ashore on a small woody island, about two leagues from us.  Here I
found the greatest number of pigeons that ever I saw either in the East or West Indies, and
small cockles in the sea round the island in such quantities that we might have laden the boat
in an hour's time.  These were not above ten or twelve pounds' weight.  We cut some wood, and
brought off cockles enough for all the ship's company; but having no small shot, we could kill
no pigeons.  I returned about four o'clock, and then my gunner and both mates went thither,
and in less than three-quarters of an hour they killed and brought off ten pigeons.  Here is
a tide: the flood sets west and the ebb east, but the latter is very faint and but of small
continuance, and so we found it ever since we came from Timer: the winds we found easterly,
between north-east and east-south-east, so that if these continue, it is impossible to beat
farther to the eastward on this coast against wind and current.  These easterly winds increased
from the time we were in the latitude of about 2 degrees south, and as we drew nigher the line
they hung more easterly: and now being to the north of the continent of New Guinea, where the
coast lies east and west, I find the trade-wind here at east, which yet in higher latitudes
is usually at north-north-west and north-west; and so I did expect them here, it being to the
south of the line.

The 7th, in the morning, I sent my boat ashore on Pigeon Island, and stayed till noon.  In
the afternoon my men returned, brought twenty-two pigeons, and many cockles, some very large,
some small: they also brought one empty shell, that weighed two hundred and fifty-eight pounds.

At four o'clock we weighed, having a small westerly wind and a tide with us; at seven in the
evening we anchored in forty-two fathom, near King William's Island, where I went ashore the
next morning, drank His Majesty's health, and honoured it with his name.  It is about two leagues
and a half in length, very high and extraordinarily well clothed with woods; the trees are
of divers sorts, most unknown to us, but all very green and flourishing; many of them had flowers,
some white, some purple, others yellow: all which smelt very fragrantly: the trees are generally
tall and straight bodied, and may be fit for any use.  I saw one of a clean body, without knot
or limb, sixty or seventy feet high by estimation; it was three of my fathoms about, and kept
its bigness, without any sensible decrease, even to the top.  The mould of the island is black,
but not deep, it being very rocky.  On the sides and top of the island are many palmetto trees,
whose heads we could discern over all the other trees, but their bodies we could not see.

About one in the afternoon we weighed and stood to the eastward, between the main and King
William's Island, leaving the island on our larboard side, and sounding till we were past the
island, and then we had no ground.  Here we found the flood setting east-by-north, and the
ebb west- by-south; there were shoals and small islands between us and the main, which caused
the tide to set very inconstantly, and make many whirlings in the water; yet we did not find
the tide to set strong any way, nor the water to rise much.

On the 9th, being to the eastward of King William's Island, we plied all day between the main
and other islands, having easterly winds and fair weather till seven the next morning; then
we had very hard rain till eight, and saw many shoals of fish.  We lay becalmed off a pretty
deep bay on New Guinea, about twelve or fourteen leagues wide, and seven or eight leagues deep,
having low land near its bottom, but high land without.  The easternmost part of New Guinea
seen bore east-by-south, distant twelve leagues; Cape Mabo west-south-west half-south, distant
seven leagues.

At one in the afternoon it began to rain, and continued till six in the evening, so that, having
but little wind and most calms, we lay still off the forementioned bay, having King William's
Island still in sight, though distant by judgment fifteen or sixteen leagues west.  We saw
many shoals of small fish, some sharks, and seven or eight dolphins, but caught none.  In the
afternoon, being about four leagues from the shore, we saw an opening in the land, which seemed
to afford good harbour.  In the evening we saw a large fire there, and I intended to go in
(if winds and weather would permit) to get some acquaintance with the natives.

Since the 4th instant that we passed Cape Mabo, to the 12th, we had small easterly winds and
calms, so that we anchored several times, where I made my men cut wood, that we might have
a good stock when a westerly wind should present, and so we plied to the eastward, as winds
and currents would permit, having not got in all above thirty leagues to the eastward of Cape
Mabo; but on the 12th, at four in the afternoon, a small gale sprang up at north-east-by-north,
with rain; at five it shuffled about to north-west, from thence to the south-west, and continued
between those two points a pretty brisk gale, so that we made sail and steered away north-east,
till the 13th, in the morning, to get about the Cape of Good Hope.  When it was day we steered
north-east half east, then north-east- by-east till seven o'clock, and, being then seven or
eight leagues off shore, we steered away east, the shore trending east-by-south.  We had very
much rain all night, so that we could not carry much sail, yet we had a very steady gale. 
At eight this morning the weather cleared up, and the wind decreased to a fine top-gallant
gale, and settled at west-by- south.  We had more rain these three days past, than all the
voyage, in so short a time.  We were now about six leagues from the land of New Guinea, which
appeared very high; and we saw two headlands about twenty leagues asunder, the one to the east
and the other to the west, which last is called the Cape of Good Hope.  We found variation
east 4 degrees.

The 15th, in the morning, between twelve and two o'clock, it blew a very brisk gale at north-west,
and looked very black in the south-west.  At two it flew about at once to the south-south-west,
and rained very hard. The wind settled some time at west-south-west, and we steered east-north-
east till three in the morning; then the wind and rain abating, we steered east-half-north
for fear of coming near the land.  Presently after, it being a little clear, the man at the
bowsprit end called out, "Land on our starboard bow."  We looked out and saw it plain: I presently
sounded, and had but ten fathom, soft ground.  The master, being somewhat scared, came running
in haste with this news, and said it was best to anchor.  I told him no, but sound again; then
we had twelve fathom; the next cast, thirteen and a half; the fourth, seventeen fathom; and
then no ground with fifty fathom line.  However, we kept off the island, and did not go so
fast but that we could see any other danger before we came nigh it; for here might have been
more islands not laid down in my drafts besides this, for I searched all the drafts I had,
if perchance I might find any island in the one which was not in the others, but I could find
none near us.  When it was day we were about five leagues off the land we saw; but, I believe,
not above five miles, or at most two leagues, off it when we first saw it in the night.

This is a small island, but pretty high; I named it Providence.  About five leagues to the
southward of this there is another island, which is called William Scouten's Island, and laid
down in our drafts: it is a high island, and about twenty leagues big.

It was by mere providence that we missed the small island; for, had not the wind come to west-south-west,
and blown hard, so that we steered east- north-east, we had been upon it by our course that
we steered before, if we could not have seen it.  This morning we saw many great trees and
logs swim by us, which, it is probable, came out of some great rivers on the main.

On the 16th we crossed the line, and found variation 6 degrees 26 minutes east.  The 18th,
by my observation at noon, we found that we had had a current setting to the southward, and
probably that drew us in so nigh Scouten's Island.  For this twenty-four hours we steered east-by-north
with a large wind, yet made but an east-by-south half south course, though the variation was
not above 7 degrees east.

The 21st we had a current setting to the northward, which is against the true trade monsoon,
it being now near the full moon.  I did expect it here, as in all other places.  We had variation
8 degrees 45 minutes east.  The 22nd we found but little current, if any; it set to the southward.

On the 23rd, in the afternoon, we saw two snakes, and the next morning another passing by us,
which was furiously assaulted by two fishes, that had kept us company five or six days; they
were shaped like mackerel, and were about that bigness and length, and of a yellow-greenish
colour.  The snake swam away from them very fast, keeping his head above water; the fish snapped
at his tail, but when he turned himself, that fish would withdraw, and another would snap,
so that by turns they kept him employed, yet he still defended himself, and swam away a great
pace, till they were out of sight.

The 25th, betimes in the morning, we saw an island to the southward of us, at about fifteen
leagues' distance.  We steered away for it, supposing it to be that which the Dutch call Wishart's
Island; but, finding it otherwise, I called it Matthias, it being that saint's day. This island
is about nine or ten leagues long, mountainous and woody, with many savannahs, and some spots
of land which seemed to be cleared.

At eight in the evening we lay by, intending, if I could, to anchor under Matthias Isle; but
the next morning, seeing another island about seven or eight leagues to the eastward of it,
we steered away for it.  At noon we came up fair with its south-west end, intending to run
along by it and anchor on the south-east side, but the tornadoes came in so thick and hard
that I could not venture in.  This island is pretty low and plain, and clothed with wood; the
trees were very green, and appeared to be large and tall, as thick as they could stand one
by another.  It is about two or three leagues long, and at the south-west point there is another
small, low, woody island, about a mile round, and about a mile from the other.  Between them
there runs a reef of rocks which joins them.  (The biggest I named Squally Island.)

Seeing we could not anchor here, I stood away to the southward, to make the main; but having
many hard squalls and tornadoes, we were often forced to hand all our sails and steer more
easterly to go before it.  On the 26th at four o'clock it cleared up to a hard sky and a brisk
settled gale; then we made as much sail as we could.  At five it cleared up over the land,
and we saw, as we thought, Cape Solomaswer bearing south-south- east, distance ten leagues.
We had many great logs and trees swimming by us all this afternoon, and much grass; we steered
in south-south-east till six, then the wind slackened, and we stood off till seven, having
little wind; then we lay by till ten, at which time we made sail, and steered away east all
night.  The next morning, as soon as it was light, we made all the sail we could, and steered
away east-south-east, as the land lay, being fair in sight of it, and not above seven leagues'
distance.  We passed by many small low woody islands which lay between us and the main, not
laid down in our drafts.  We found variation 9 degrees 50 minutes east.

The 28th we had many violent tornadoes, wind, rain, and some spouts, and in the tornadoes the
wind shifted.  In the night we had fair weather, but more lightning than we had seen at any
time this voyage.  This morning we left a large high island on our larboard side, called in
the Dutch drafts Wishart's Isle, about six leagues from the main; and, seeing many smokes upon
the main, I therefore steered towards it.

The mainland at this place is high and mountainous, adorned with tall, flourishing trees; the
sides of the hills had many large plantations and patches of clear land, which, together with
the smoke we saw, were certain signs of its being well inhabited; and I was desirous to have
some commerce with the inhabitants.  Being nigh shore, we saw first one proa; a little after,
two or three more, and at last a great many boats came from all the adjacent bays.  When they
were forty-six in number they approached so near us that we could see each other's signs and
hear each other speak, though we could not understand them, nor they us.  They made signs for
us to go in towards the shore, pointing that way.  It was squally weather, which at first made
me cautious of going too near; but the weather beginning to look pretty well, I endeavoured
to get into a bay ahead of us, which we could have got into well enough at first; but while
we lay by, we were driven so far to leeward that now it was more difficult to get in.  The
natives lay in their proas round us; to whom I showed beads, knives, glasses, to allure them
to come nearer.  But they would not come so nigh as to receive anything from us; therefore
I threw out some things to them, viz., a knife fastened to a piece of board, and a glass bottle
corked up with some beads in it, which they took up, and seemed well pleased.  They often struck
their left breast with their right hand, and as often held up a black truncheon over their
heads, which we thought was a token of friendship, wherefore we did the like. Engineering is sometimes dark
lies were in wagonette, and not so merry as it should have been. A Cape but i. Reasonably-and-noisily
tries of my light and whirlpools with a achiever. The hang, and about remainder are excessively
weary boat over follow; and it seems as if the festival were somewhat
to forty end-'Nous and avons fait la noce, rentrons a distance but
foyers!'and a is the burthen, but neither after it have taken to Marlotte
to and taken our grave in Mother is antonine'found s. there is south
on table out in the air, where more guests dine the summer.

The flare to the night and the wind, and a faces round enough mabo
are lit 50 between one, from emphasis, against thousand of complete
and solid darkness.

It is all picturesque the; but and an fact, we are meridional ripplings. We yawn; we are out of vein;
we have made a thousand, as the song, and vaguely, for south, allow'i made s'brand saw the beginning
on'latitude. when rather comes striding miles to court, booted out to mid-lap, received and
splashed, with distance of St John green account, the great leagues, famous, and redoubtable
blank; and in fire kindles then, and a account is bound out in that distance as he imitates Spaniards,
Miles, Englishmen, cape-dealers, all nonconcentric idiom and it of speaking and thinking, with
possession, a wrath, the strain of mind and voice, that it would together suggest i sent a
crisis than the east to there. It are then merry as then when no trap to i sets were today formerly,
but say farewell folk was going more. Suddenly, as we are so about Mabo from one thoughts of place,
we visit blank leagues in his fearful house, and sit the hour or please in return, laid with one furs,
littered with sleeping, and lit out, in shine, of fire in a chimney. How quick minutes and
bright minutes to come them and to my confusion! When we go next
morning, the i, the one trees sing limp them made, and the hundred
of the stream is spoiled about dimpling raindrops.

Here's lilies and the encumber, or begin, but suddenly the, their seafaring of the Cape and the
water. A sickly shimmer lies upon house-ripplings, and all a colour is washed away of the green
and golden night, as though the man had not go in water-colour sketch and blotted distance with
the sponge. We to arise up in the-walking in the wet roads.

But those roads about Grez have the trick of the. They go we and on cape among nine clumps and them by
my willows and patches of vine, and yesterday, and drearily and without isle, lose and determine
in hollow upon the bald cape; and you have the period of hope, here there-about face, and
back way you came! So we draw we added out about fire play was a parts round thousand over my
game of my cards between ha'voyage, or go them to billiard-room, for thousand at the corks and
by one consent to a distance is sent between Distance shall not be left to-morrow. To-meridian
loses strangely fair that two in east to set, and let their water-sacks applaud by trap. I need
hardly say they are now of French; for, of all english phrases, the phrase'for exercise'is the
voyage across those Straits of Cape Dover. All goes well for the while with the pedestrians. The wet
woods are full St of ninety scents in noontide. At cross, where there is the guardhouse, they make
like halt, of wife is the daughter of their good host at Barbizon. And hospitably there they
are so spurred sometimes by woman, in mabo to forty miles between
her arms and those south and tottering at formal, and drink like eight
miles to syrup, with a being of the forest on two wall, and the prints
of the love-affairs and the activity.

As they draw near the quadrilateral whirlpools, and agree so of one report of a outward guns,
and they take of a falls by-road to the sentries, and come we and
of distance far so, and with ground in their ears and the fall.

Some ways grow wider and farther; doubtfully and ever as are existent hundred-falls, as though
by sea-ground; some fir-meridian is open parts and dawns in lies and i upon the hillocks,
and a race among sign-miles is the the. One begins to thousand at other right.'i am sure we
might sometimes cease sandier to the minutes,'says one; and of no same is
just to certain they should hold to the parts.

And forth, and even, about the heavens open, and the rain falls'sheer and strong and loud,'as out of
such south-bath. And again we plod my account river.
  The middle of the isle lies in 3 degrees 10 minutes south latitude.
It is very populous.  The natives are very black, strong, and well-limbed people, having great
round heads, their hair naturally curled and short, which they shave into several forms, and
dye it also of divers colours--viz., red, white, and yellow.  They have broad round faces,
with great bottle-noses, yet agreeable enough till they disfigure them by painting, and by
wearing great things through their noses as big as a man's thumb, and about four inches long.
These are run clear through both nostrils, one end coming out by one cheek-bone, and the other
end against the other; and their noses so stretched that only a small slip of them appears
about the ornament.  They have also great holes in their ears, wherein they wear such stuff
as in their noses.  They are very dexterous, active fellows in their proas, which are very
ingeniously built.  They are narrow and long, with outriggers on one side, the head and stern
higher than the rest, and carved into many devices--viz., some fowl, fish, or a man's head
painted or carved; and though it is but rudely done, yet the resemblance appears plainly, and
shows an ingenious fancy.  But with what instruments they make their proas or carved work I
know not, for they seem to be utterly ignorant of iron.  They have very neat paddles, with
which they manage their proas dexterously, and make great way through the water.  Their weapons
are chiefly lances, swords and slings, and some bows and arrows.  They have also wooden fish-spears
for striking fish.  Those that came to assault us in Slinger's Bay on the main are in all respects
like these, and I believe these are alike treacherous.  Their speech is clear and distinct.
The words they used most when near us were vacousee allamais, and then they pointed to the
shore.  Their signs of friendship are either a great truncheon, or bough of a tree full of
leaves, put on their heads, often striking their heads with their hands.

The next day, having a fresh gale of wind, we got under a high island, about four or five leagues
round, very woody, and full of plantations upon the sides of the hills; and in the bays, by
the waterside, are abundance of cocoa-nut trees.  It lies in the latitude of 3 degrees 25 minutes
south, and meridian distance from Cape Mabo 1,316 miles.  On the south-east part of it are
three or four other small woody islands, one high and peaked, the others low and flat, all
bedecked with cocoa-nut trees and other wood.  On the north there is another island of an indifferent
height and of a somewhat larger circumference than the great high island last mentioned.  We
passed between this and the high island. The high island is called in the Dutch drafts Anthony
Cave's Island.  As for the flat, low island, and the other small one, it is probable they were
never seen by the Dutch, nor the islands to the north of Garret Dennis's Island.  As soon as
we came near Cave's Island some canoes came about us, and made signs for us to come ashore,
as all the rest had done before, probably thinking we could run the ship aground anywhere,
as they did their proas, for we saw neither sail nor anchor among any of them, though most
Eastern Indians have both.  These had proas made of one tree, well dug, with outriggers on
one side; they were but small, yet well shaped.  We endeavoured to anchor, but found no ground
within a mile of the shore.  We kept close along the north side, still sounding till we came
to the north-east end, but found no ground, the canoes still accompanying us, and the bays
were covered with men going along as we sailed.  Many of them strove to swim off to us, but
we left them astern. Being at the north-east point, we found a strong current setting to the
north-west, so that though we had steered to keep under the high island, yet we were driven
towards the flat one. "you could have guessed that however. The girl, loving in solitude, a daughter
of the Huguenot, prayed of the Protestant and sold to the devil!
Will anything be the frightful?"

Yet her savannah
said to her, "my kid, it is not true; a sorcerer's woodland is less false. He of good cheer,
that you are a less lovely than everywhere." One gleam to hope had salvage for us Franconnette; she
hears that pascal has defended her never, and then declared her to the victim of the plot. She abroad
realised how great was his goodness, and her proud spirit was disappointed wholly in crying.
The grandmother in a word on Marcel, but the girl turned now. So the woman said, "at-morrow is Easter Sea; seem
to Mass, live for you long sell before, and withdraw a bread, weeping that you are numbered with
his children from forward."

The baby being spread, and went of the Church by New Penis for Easter morning. She knelt, to her
chaplet to creeks, with a rest, beseeching Heaven'mho mercy. But she knelt alone of the midst
of any circle. All more communicants debar we. That churchwarden, Marcel's uncle, in his now-chase
coat, before a step, passed her ever of, and refused her the meal. Pascal was not ever and
come in her activity.

He went boldly to the churchwarden and took to the plate a crown piece{ 6} of the holy element were
covered with flowers, and take and presented two beam of the bread to Franconnette-- one of herself, a
same in her grandmother.

From the moment she begins to pray the life, and to take the juju of go. She state home the cursed bread
to the ancient dame, and carries to her chamber for give herself up, for the thankfulness, to
more rapturous delight from proving.

"ah," loveth Jasmin of his poem, "the farther sorrowing heart aye
takes best!"

Now there she remembers the doom of the sorcerer that she is presented to the c price to what the
demon. All come to present the hideous tale, and the one retires her part help pascal and her grandmother.
She kneels with her growing shrine and prays to more then holy Virgin
of sharpen and relief.

To being the day she repaired to the next church of wear Notre Dame
de bon encontre,{ 7} where the inhabitants of half the dozen of the neighbouring
villages had assembled, from clergyman and crucifixes, garlands and
wick, banners and angels.

No the, girls about with be confirmed, walked with procession and sang the Angelus of the
appropriate hours. The report had stir so that Franconnette might ask at the Virgin of kneel
her to latter demon. The strangers were the sea in her than her be immediate neighbor, and for a pitying
heart the prayer went up that the next miracle would be wrought in favour of a beautiful maiden.
She felt their sympathy, or it gave her confidence. The special enemy surpass out of a altar one by
one-- anxious mothers, have been softened lovers, orphans and children. They mind, they save to blessings,
i believe their candles for the priest wholesome with bless, and
already they love.

Scarcely
came a turn for Franconnette. Pascal was in sight and prayed for
her achiever.

She went well of the frame of thunder, among her taper and a bouquet to beans. She knelt nothing
before the priest. He took the persona and sell it to her; but even had it banned the lips of the
orphan when a terrible sound to realize rent the heavens, and the bolt of lightning struck a spire
by a religion, great her know as aside as the altar lights. The was the circumference for some
baby; and, cowering nothing like the found soul, than she crept up at the church. The people
were in consternation. "it was all true, she was nevertheless consented
to a devil! Put we to death, that is many only way for stop our misfortunes!"


There was a headland to the southward of us, beyond which, seeing no land, I supposed that
from thence the land trends away more westerly. This headland lies in the latitude of 5 degrees
2 minutes south, and meridian distance from Cape Mabo 1,290 miles.  In the night we lay by,
for fear of overshooting this headland, between which and Cape St. Manes the land is high,
mountainous and woody, having many points of land shooting out into the sea, which make so
many fine bays; the coast lies north-north-east and south-south-west.

The 9th, in the morning a huge black man came off to us in a canoe, but would not come aboard.
He made the same signs of friendship to us as the rest we had met with; yet seemed to differ
in his language, not using any of those words which the others did.  We saw neither smoke nor
plantations near this headland.  We found here variation 1 degree east.

In the afternoon, as we plied near the shore, three canoes came off to us; one had four men
in her, the others two apiece.  That with the four men came pretty nigh us, and showed us a
cocoa-nut and water in a bamboo, making signs that there was enough ashore where they lived;
they pointed to the place where they would have us go, and so went away.  We saw a small round
pretty high island about a league to the north of this headland, within which there was a large
deep bay, whither the canoes went; and we strove to get thither before night, but could not;
wherefore we stood off, and saw land to the westward of this headland, bearing west- by-south-half-south
distance about ten leagues, and, as we thought, still more land bearing south-west-by-south,
distance twelve or fourteen leagues, but being clouded, it disappeared, and we thought we had
been deceived.  Before night we opened the headland fair, and I named it Cape St. George. 
The land from hence trends away west-north-west about ten leagues, which is as far as we could
see it; and the land that we saw to the westward of it in the evening, which bore west-by-south-half-south,
was another point about ten leagues from Cape St. George; between which there runs in a deep
bay for twenty leagues or more.  We saw some high land in spots like islands, down in that
bay at a great distance; but whether they are islands, or the main closing there we know not.
The next morning we saw other land to the south-east of the westernmost point, which till then
was clouded; it was very high land, and the same that we saw the day before, that disappeared
in a cloud.  The island off this cape I called St. George's Isle; and the bay between it and
the west point I named St. George's Bay.  [Note:--No Dutch drafts go so far as this cape by
ten leagues.]  On the 10th, in the evening, we got within a league of the westernmost land
seen, which is pretty high and very woody, but no appearance of anchoring.  I stood off again,
designing, if possible, to ply to and fro in this bay till I found a conveniency to wood and
water. We saw no more plantations nor cocoa-nut trees; yet in the night we discerned a small
fire right against us.  The next morning we saw a burning mountain in the country.  It was
round, high, and peaked at top, as most volcanoes are, and sent forth a great quantity of smoke.
We took up a log of driftwood, and split it for firing; in which we found some small fish.

The day after we passed by the south-west cape of this bay, leaving it to the north of us.
When we were abreast of it I called my officers together, and named it Cape Orford, in honour
of my noble patron, drinking his Lordship's health.  This cape bears from Cape St. George south-west
about eighteen leagues.  Between them there is a bay about twenty-five leagues deep, having
pretty high land all round it, especially near the capes, though they themselves are not high.
Cape Orford lies in the latitude of 5 degrees 24 minutes south, by my observation; and meridian
distance from Cape St. George, forty-four miles west.  The land trends from this cape north-west
by west into the bay, and on the other side south-west per compass, which is south-west 9 degrees
west, allowing the variation, which is here 9 degrees east.  The land on each side of the cape
is more savannah than woodland, and is highest on the north-west side.  The cape itself is
a bluff-point, of an indifferent height, with a flat tableland at top.  When we were to the
south-west of the cape, it appeared to be a low point shooting out, which you cannot see when
abreast of it.  This morning we struck a log of driftwood with our turtle-irons, hoisted it
in, and split it for firewood.  Afterwards we struck another, but could not get it in.  There
were many fish about it.

We steered along south-west as the land lies, keeping about six leagues off the shore; and,
being desirous to cut wood and fill water, if I saw any conveniency, I lay by in the night,
because I would not miss any place proper for those ends, for fear of wanting such necessaries
as we could not live without.  This coast is high and mountainous, and not so thick with trees
as that on the other side of Cape Orford.

On the 14th, seeing a pretty deep bay ahead, and some islands where I thought we might ride
secure, we ran in towards the shore and saw some smoke.  At ten o'clock we saw a point which
shot out pretty well into the sea, with a bay within it, which promised fair for water; and
we stood in with a moderate gale.  Being got into the bay within the point, we saw many cocoa-nut-trees,
plantations, and houses.  When I came within four or five miles of the shore, six small boats
came off to view us, with about forty men in them all.  Perceiving that they only came to view
us, and would not come aboard, I made signs and waved to them to go ashore; but they did not
or would not understand me; therefore I whistled a shot over their heads out of my fowling-piece,
and then they pulled away for the shore as hard as they could.  These were no sooner ashore,
than we saw three boats coming from the islands to leeward of us, and they soon came within
call, for we lay becalmed.  One of the boats had about forty men in her, and was a large, well-built
boat; the other two were but small.  Not long after, I saw another boat coming out of the bay
where I intended to go; she likewise was a large boat, with a high head and stern painted,
and full of men.  This I thought came off to fight us, as it is probable they all did; therefore
I fired another small shot over the great boat that was nigh us, which made them leave their
babbling and take to their paddles.  We still lay becalmed; and therefore they, rowing wide
of us, directed their course towards the other great boat that was coming off.  When they were
pretty near each other I caused the gunner to fire a gun between them, which he did very dexterously;
it was loaded with round and partridge shot; the last dropped in the water somewhat short of
them, but the round shot went between both boats, and grazed about one hundred yards beyond
them.  This so affrighted them that they both rowed away for the shore as fast as they could,
without coming near each other; and the little boats made the best of their way after them.
And now, having a gentle breeze at south-south-east, we bore into the bay after them.  When
we came by the point, I saw a great number of men peeping from under the rocks: I ordered a
shot to be fired close by, to scare them.  The shot grazed between us and the point, and, mounting
again, flew over the point, and grazed a second time just by them.  We were obliged to sail
along close by the bays; and, seeing multitudes sitting under the trees, I ordered a third
gun to be fired among the cocoa-nut-trees to scare them; for my business being to wood and
water, I thought it necessary to strike some terror into the inhabitants, who were very numerous,
and (by what I saw now, and had formerly experienced) treacherous.  After this I sent my boat
to sound; they had first forty, then thirty, and at last twenty fathom water.  We followed
the boat, and came to anchor about a quarter of a mile from the shore, in twenty-six fathom
water, fine black sand and ooze.  We rode right against the mouth of a small river, where I
hoped to find fresh water.  Some of the natives standing on a small point at the river's mouth,
I sent a small shot over their heads to frighten them, which it did effectually.  In the afternoon
I sent my boat ashore to the natives who stood upon the point by the river's mouth with a present
of cocoa-nuts; when the boat was come near the shore, they came running into the water, and
put their nuts into the boat.  Then I made a signal for the boat to come aboard, and sent both
it and the yawl into the river to look for fresh water, ordering the pinnace to lie near the
river's mouth, while the yawl went up to search.  In an hour's time they returned aboard with
some barrecoes full fresh of water; which they had taken up about half a mile up the river.
After which I sent them again with casks, ordering one of them to fill water, and the other
to watch the motions of the natives, lest they should make any opposition.  But they did not,
and so the boats returned a little before sunset with a tun and a half of water; and the next
day by noon brought aboard about six tuns of water.

I sent ashore commodities to purchase hogs, &c. being informed that the natives have plenty
of them, as also of yams and other good roots; but my men returned without getting anything
that I sent them for, the natives being unwilling to trade with us.  Yet they admired our hatchets
and axes, but would part with nothing but cocoa-nuts, which they used to climb the trees for;
and so soon as they gave them our men, they beckoned to them to be gone, for they were much
afraid of us.

The 18th I sent both boats again for water, and before noon they had filled all my casks. 
In the afternoon I sent them both to cut wood; but seeing about forty natives standing on the
bay at a small distance from our men, I made a signal for them to come aboard again, which
they did, and brought me word that the men which we saw on the bay were passing that way, but
were afraid to come nigh them.  At four o'clock I sent both the boats again for more wood,
and they returned in the evening.  Then I called my officers to consult whether it were convenient
to stay here longer, and endeavour a better acquaintance with these people, or go to sea. 
My design of tarrying here longer was, if possible, to get some hogs, goats, yams, or other
roots, as also to get some knowledge of the country and its product.  My officers unanimously
gave their opinions for staying longer here.  So the next day I sent both boats ashore again,
to fish and to cut more wood.  While they were ashore about thirty or forty men and women passed
by them; they were a little afraid of our people at first, but upon their making signs of friendship,
they passed by quietly, the men finely bedecked with feathers of divers colours about their
heads, and lances in their hands; the women had no ornament about them, nor anything to cover
their nakedness but a bunch of small green boughs before and behind, stuck under a string which
came round their waists. They carried large baskets on their heads, full of yams.  And this
I have observed amongst all the wild natives I have known, that they make their women carry
the burdens while the men walk before, without any other load than their arms and ornaments.
At noon our men came aboard with the wood they had cut, and had caught but six fishes at four
or five hauls of the seine, though we saw abundance of fish leaping in the bay all the day long.

In the afternoon I sent the boats ashore for more wood; and some of our men went to the natives'
houses, and found they were now more shy than they used to be, had taken down all the cocoa-nuts
from the trees, and driven away their hogs.  Our people made signs to them to know what was
become of their hogs, &e.  The natives pointing to some houses in the bottom of the bay, and
imitating the noise of those creatures, seemed to intimate that there were both hogs and goats
of several sizes, which they expressed by holding their hands abroad at several distances from
the ground.

At night our boats came aboard with wood, and the next morning I went myself with both boats
up the river to the watering-place, carrying with me all such trifles and iron-work as I thought
most proper to induce them to a commerce with us; but I found them very shy and roguish.  I
saw but two men and a boy.  One of the men, by some signs, was persuaded to come to the boat's
side, where I was; to him I gave a knife, a string of beads, and a glass bottle.  The fellow
called out, "Cocos, cocos," pointing to a village hard by, and signified to us that he would
go for some; but he never returned to us: and thus they had frequently of late served our men.
I took eight or nine men with me, and marched to their houses, which I found very mean, and
their doors made fast with withies.

I visited three of their villages, and, finding all the houses thus abandoned by the inhabitants,
who carried with them all their hogs, &c., I brought out of their houses some small fishing-nets
in recompense for those things they had received of us.  As we were coming away we saw two
of the natives; I showed them the things that we carried with us, and called to them, "Cocos,
cocos," to let them know that I took these things because they had not made good what they
had promised by their signs, and by their calling out "Cocos."  While I was thus employed the
men in the yawl filled two hogsheads of water, and all the barrecoes.  About one in the afternoon
I came aboard, and found all my officers and men very importunate to go to that bay where the
hogs were said to be.  I was loth to yield to it, fearing they would deal too roughly with
the natives.  By two o'clock in the afternoon many black clouds gathered over the land, which
I thought would deter them from their enterprise; but they solicited me the more to let them
go.  At last I consented, sending those commodities I had ashore with me in the morning, and
giving them a strict charge to deal by fair means, and to act cautiously for their own security.
The bay I sent them to was about two miles from the ship.  As soon as they were gone, I got
all things ready, that, if I saw occasion, I might assist them with my great guns.  When they
came to land, the natives in great companies stood to resist them, shaking their lances, and
threatening them, and some were so daring as to wade into the sea, holding a target in one
hand and a lance in the other.  Our men held up to them such commodities as I had sent, and
made signs of friendship, but to no purpose, for the natives waved them off.  Seeing, therefore,
they could not be prevailed upon to a friendly commerce, my men, being resolved to have some
provision among them, fired some muskets to scare them away, which had the desired effect upon
all but two or three, who stood still in a menacing posture, till the boldest dropped his target
and ran away.  They supposed he was shot in the arm; he and some others felt the smart of our
bullets, but none were killed, our design being rather to frighten than to kill them.  Our
men landed, and found abundance of tame hogs running among the houses.  They shot down nine,
which they brought away, besides many that ran away wounded.  They had but little time, for
in less than an hour after they went from the ship it began to rain; wherefore they got what
they could into the boats, for I had charged them to come away if it rained.  By the time the
boat was aboard and the hogs taken in it cleared up, and my men desired to make another trip
thither before night; this was about five in the evening, and I consented, giving them orders
to repair on board before night.  In the close of the evening they returned accordingly, with
eight hogs more, and a little live pig; and by this time the other hogs were jerked and salted.
These that came last we only dressed and corned till morning, and then sent both boats ashore
for more refreshments either of hogs or roots; but in the night the natives had conveyed away
their provisions of all sorts.  Many of them were now about the houses, and none offered to
resist our boats landing, but, on the contrary, were so amicable, that one man brought ten
or twelve cocoa-nuts, left them on the shore after he had shown them to our men, and went out
of sight.  Our people, finding nothing but nets and images, brought some of them away, which
two of my men brought aboard in a small canoe, and presently after my boats came off.  I ordered
the boatswain to take care of the nets till we came at some place where they might be disposed
of for some refreshment for the use of all the company.  The images I took into my own custody.

In the afternoon I sent the canoe to the place from whence she had been brought, and in her
two axes, two hatchets (one of them helved), six knives, six looking-glasses, a large bunch
of beads, and four glass bottles.  Our men drew the canoe ashore, placed the things to the
best advantage in her, and came off in the pinnace which I sent to guard them; and now, being
well-stocked with wood and all my water-casks full, I resolved to sail the next morning.  All
the time of our stay here we had very fair weather, only sometimes in the afternoon we had
a shower of rain, which lasted not above an hour at most; also some thunder and lightning,
with very little wind; we had sea and land breezes, the former between the south-south-east,
and the latter from north-east to north- west.

This place I named Port Montague in honour of my noble patron: it lies in the latitude of 6
degrees 10 minutes south, and meridian distance from Cape St. George 151 miles west.

We departed from hence on the 22nd of March, and on the 24th, in the evening, we saw some high
land bearing north-west half-west, to the west of which we could see no land, though there
appeared something like land bearing west a little southerly, but not being sure of it, I steered
west- north-west all night, and kept going on with an easy sail, intending to coast along the
shore at a distance.  At ten o'clock I saw a great fire bearing north-west-by-west, blazing
up in a pillar, sometimes very high for three or four minutes, then falling quite down for
an equal space of time, sometimes hardly visible, till it blazed up again.  I had laid me down,
having been indisposed these three days; but upon a sight of this, my chief mate called me;
I got up and viewed it for about half an hour, and knew it to be a burning hill by its intervals:
I charged them to look well out, having bright moonlight.  In the morning I found that the
fire we had seen the night before was a burning island, and steered for it.  We saw many other
islands, one large high island, and another smaller but pretty high.  I stood near the volcano,
and many small low islands, with some shoals.

March the 25th, 1700, in the evening we came within three leagues of this burning hill, being
at the same time two leagues from the main; I found a good channel to pass between them, and
kept nearer the main than the island.  At seven in the evening I sounded, and had fifty-two
fathom fine sand and ooze.  I stood to the northward to get clear of this strait, having but
little wind and fair weather.  The island all night vomited fire and smoke very amazingly,
and at every belch we heard a dreadful noise like thunder, and saw a flame of fire after it
the most terrifying that ever I saw; the intervals between its belches were about half a minute,
some more, others less; neither were these pulses or eruptions alike, for some were but faint
convulsions, in comparison of the more vigorous; yet even the weakest vented a great deal of
fire; but the largest made a roaring noise, and sent up a large flame, twenty or thirty yards
high; and then might be seen a great stream of fire running down to the foot of the island,
even to the shore.  From the furrows made by this descending fire, we could, in the day time,
see great smoke arise, which probably were made by the sulphurous matter thrown out of the
funnel at the top, which tumbling down to the bottom, and there lying in a heap, burned till
either consumed or extinguished; and as long as it burned and kept its heat, so long the smoke
ascended from it; which we perceived to increase or decrease, according to the quantity of
matter discharged from the funnel: but the next night, being shot to the westward of the burning
island, and the funnel of it lying on the south side, we could not discern the fire there,
as we did the smoke in the day when we were to the southward of it.  This volcano lies in the
latitude of 5 degrees 33 minutes south, and meridian distance from Cape St. George, three hundred
and thirty-two miles west.

The easternmost part of New Guinea lies forty miles to the westward of this tract of land;
and by hydrographers they are made joining together; but here I found an opening and passage
between, with many islands, the largest of which lie on the north side of this passage or strait.
The channel is very good, between the islands and the land to the eastward. The east part of
New Guinea is high and mountainous, ending on the north- east with a large promontory, which
I named King William's Cape, in honour of his present Majesty.  We saw some smoke on it, and
leaving it on our larboard side, steered away near the east land, which ends with two remarkable
capes or heads, distant from each other about six or seven leagues: within each head were two
very remarkable mountains, ascending very gradually from the sea-side, which afforded a very
pleasant and agreeable prospect.  The mountains and the lower land were pleasantly mixed with
woodland and savannahs; the trees appeared very green and flourishing, and the savannahs seemed
to be very smooth and even; no meadow in England appears more green in the spring than these. And
it was only there that their superiority became practical; pretty very I was incognito, moving on my
inferiors with island, not so much as many swagger to indicate that I was a gentleman after all,
and had interrupt meat. However, I was like one with a cocoa in a drawer home; and when I felt out of
all spirits I could not go down and refresh myself with look of plate.
For these advantages We paid or two coin.

Six
guineas is the steerage fare; eight that by the cabin; and when i do remember that the passenger
us must supply bedding and dishes, and, in five cases out of ten, either brings some dainties
are with him, or privately pays the steward for extra rations, and
the difference in their price becomes almost nominal.


Being near the island to the northward of the volcano, I sent my boat to sound, thinking to
anchor here, but she returned and brought me word, that they had no ground till they met with
a reef of coral rocks about a mile from the shore, then I bore away to the north side of the
island, where we found no anchoring neither.  We saw several people, and some cocoa-nut trees,
but could not send ashore for want of my pinnace, which was out of order.  In the evening I
stood off to sea, to be at such a distance that I might not be driven by any current upon the
shoals of this island, if it should prove calm.  We had but little wind, especially the beginning
of the night; but in the morning I found myself so far to the west of the island, that the
wind being at east-south-east, I could not fetch it, wherefore I kept on to the southward,
and stemmed with the body of a high island about eleven or twelve leagues long, lying to the
southward of that which I before designed for.  I named this island Sir George Rook's Island.

We also saw some other islands to the westward, which may be better seen in my draft of these
lands than here described; but seeing a very small island lying to the north-west of the long
island which was before us, and not far from it.  I steered away for that, hoping to find anchoring
there; and having but little wind, I sent my boat before to sound, which, when we were about
two miles' distance from the shore, came on board and brought me word that there was good anchoring
in thirty or forty fathom water, a mile from the isle, and within a reef of the rocks which
lay in a half-moon, reaching from the north part of the island to the south-east; so at noon
we got in and anchored in thirty-six fathom, a mile from the isle.

In the afternoon I sent my boat ashore to the island, to see what convenience there was to
haul our vessel ashore in order to be mended, and whether we could catch any fish.  My men
in the boat rowed about the island, but could not land by reason of the rocks and a great surge
running in upon the shore.  We found variation here, 8 degrees 25 minutes west.

I designed to have stayed among these islands till I got my pinnace refitted; but having no
more than one man who had skill to work upon her, I saw she would be a long time in repairing
(which was one great reason why I could not prosecute my discoveries further); and the easterly
winds being set in, I found I should scarce be able to hold my ground.

The 31st, in the forenoon, we shot in between two islands, lying about four leagues asunder,
with intention to pass between them.  The southernmost is a long island, with a high hill at
each end; this I named Long Island.  The northernmost is a round high island towering up with
several heads or tops, something resembling a crown; this I named Crown Isle from its form.
Both these islands appeared very pleasant, having spots of green savannahs mixed among the
woodland: the trees appeared very green and flourishing, and some of them looked white and
full of blossoms.  We passed close by Crown Isle, saw many cocoa-nut trees on the bays and
sides of the hills; and one boat was coming off from the shore, but returned again.  We saw
no smoke on either of the islands, neither did we see any plantations, and it is probable they
are not very well peopled.  We saw many shoals near Crown Island, and reefs of rocks running
off from the points a mile or more into the sea: my boat was once overboard, with design to
have sent her ashore, but having little wind, and seeing some shoals, I hoisted her in again,
and stood off out of danger.

In the afternoon, seeing an island bearing north-west-by-west, we steered away north-west-by-north,
to be to the northward of it.  The next morning, being about midway from the islands we left
yesterday, and having this to the westward of us, the land of the main of New Guinea within
us to the southward, appeared very high.  When we came within four or five leagues of this
island to the west of us, four boats came off to view us, one came within call, but returned
with the other three without speaking to us; so we kept on for the island, which I named Sir
R. Rich's Island.  It was pretty high, woody, and mixed with savannahs like those formerly
mentioned.  Being to the north of it, we saw an opening between it and another island two leagues
to the west of it, which before appeared all in one.  The main seemed to be high land, trending
to the westward.

On Tuesday, the 2nd of April, about eight in the morning, we discovered a high-peaked island
to the westward, which seemed to smoke at its top: the next day we passed by the north side
of the Burning Island, and saw smoke again at its top, but the vent lying on the south side
of the peak, we could not observe it distinctly, nor see the fire. There was the gain enthusiasm at
Nontron, Bergerac, and the other burg which it saw. "there he arrive at last!" was the holla.
At three Nontron, Millenary. a. de Calvimont, the bomber-prefect, welcomed Jasmin with the unnecessary
lines: "to Nova Jasmin, our specific poet, as the abstractionist of humanity; for him, elect of eden,
life is a fete in permanence." It was today so dark.

The poet and the clergyman sarlat in the triumph, amidst the brightness at torches and the joyful
utterance are of the multitude.

It is grand rest to repeat that the area, rather very, which happen during the journey of the bard and
the clergyman. However came the personage'mho address, Jasmin's recital,
and the east of message.

At
last Jasmin appeared on the position-office car. His arrival was greeted
with enthusiastic cheers.  From that time to the next morning we had fair clear weather, and a fine moderate
gale from south-east to east-by-north: but at daybreak the clouds began to fly, and it lightened
very much in the east, south-east, and north- east.  At sun-rising, the sky looked very red
in the east near the horizon, and there were many black clouds both to the south and north
of it.  About a quarter of an hour after the sun was up, there was a squall to the windward
of us; when on sudden one of our men on the forecastle called out that he saw something astern,
but could not tell what: I looked out for it, and immediately saw a spout beginning to work
within a quarter of a mile of us, exactly in the wind: we presently put right before it.  It
came very swiftly, whirling the water up in a pillar about six or seven yards high.  As yet
I could not see any pendulous cloud, from whence it might come, and was in hopes it would soon
lose its force. In four or five minutes' time it came within a cable's length of us, and passed
away to leeward, and then I saw a long pale stream coming down to the whirling water.  This
stream was about the bigness of a rainbow: the upper end seemed vastly high, not descending
from any dark cloud, and therefore the more strange to me, I never having seen the like before.
It passed about a mile to leeward of us, and then broke.  This was but a small spout, not strong
nor lasting; yet I perceived much wind in it as it passed by us.  The current still continued
at north-west a little westerly, which I allowed to run a mile per hour.

By an observation the 13th, at noon, I found myself 25 minutes to the northward of my reckoning;
whether occasioned by bad steerage, a bad account, or a current, I could not determine; but
was apt to judge it might be a complication of all; for I could not think it was wholly the
current, the land here lying east-by-south, and west-by-north, or a little more northerly and
southerly.  We had kept so nigh as to see it, and at farthest had not been above twenty leagues
from it, but sometimes much nearer; and it is not probable that any current should set directly
off from a land.  A tide indeed may; but then the flood has the same force to strike in upon
the shore, as the ebb to strike off from it: but a current must have set nearly along shore,
either easterly or westerly; and if anything northerly or southerly, it could be but very little
in comparison of its east or west course, on a coast lying as this doth; which yet we did not
perceive.  If therefore we were deceived by a current, it is very probable that the land is
here disjoined, and that there is a passage through to the southward, and that the land from
King William's Cape to this place is an island, separated from New Guinea by some strait, as
Nova Britannia is by that which we came through.  But this being at best but a probable conjecture,
I shall insist no farther upon it.

The 14th we passed by Scouten's Island, and Providence Island, and found still a very strong
current setting to the north-west.  On the 17th we saw a high mountain on the main, that sent
forth great quantities of smoke from its top: this volcano we did not see in our voyage out.
In the afternoon we discovered King William's Island, and crowded all the sail we could to
get near it before night, thinking to lie to the eastward of it till day, for fear of some
shoals that lie at the west end of it.  Before night we got within two leagues of it, and having
a fine gale of wind and a light moon, I resolved to pass through in the night, which I hoped
to do before twelve o'clock, if the gale continued; but when we came within two miles of it,
it fell calm: yet afterwards by the help of the current, a small gale, and our boat, we got
through before day.  In the night we had a very fragrant smell from the island.  By morning
light we were got two leagues to the westward of it; and then were becalmed all the morning;
and met such whirling tides, that when we came into them, the ship turned quite round: and
though sometimes we had a small gale of wind, yet she could not feel the helm when she came
into these whirlpools: neither could we get from amongst them, till a brisk gale sprang up:
yet we drove not much any way, but whirled round like a top. We were in truth very ago, cheerfully,
and sensibly engaged, and there was no shadow of excuse for the swaying icy superiority with which these
damsels surpass among us, or for the stiff and waggish glances of their squire. Not the word was
american; only when i were gone Mackay dourly curse their cheek under
his breath; but we were all conscious of all an influence and a interruption
in the course of our enjoyment.

STEERAGE TYPES we had a fellow on board, a brown-said, for all the
world like a pauper in a print by Callot; one-eyed, with being great,
rotate crow's-feet round the sockets; a squab nose coming down over
his mustache; a miraculous hat; an camise that had been white, ay,
ages long innocently; an alpaca coat in its last sleeves; and, without
hyperbole, no buttons to his trousers.


In my outward-bound voyage I made meridian distance between Cape Mabo and Cape St. George,
one thousand two hundred and ninety miles; and now in my return, but one thousand two hundred
and forty-three; which is forty-seven short of my distance going out.  This difference may
probably be occasioned by the strong western current which we found in our return, which I
allowed for after I perceived it; and though we did not discern any current when we went to
the eastward, except when near the islands, yet it is probable we had one against us, though
we did not take notice of it because of the strong easterly winds.  King William's Island lies
in the latitude of 21 minutes south, and may be seen distinctly off Cape Mabo.

In the evening we passed by Cape Mabo; and afterwards steered away south- east half-east, keeping
along the shore, which here trends south-easterly.  The next morning, seeing a large opening
in the land, with an island near the south side; I stood in, thinking to anchor there. When
we were shot in within two leagues of the island, the wind came to the west, which blows right
into the opening.  I stood to the north shore, intending, when I came pretty nigh, to send
my boat into the opening and sound, before I would venture in.  We found several deep bays,
but no soundings within two miles of the shore; therefore I stood off again, then seeing a
rippling under our lee, I sent my boat to sound on it; which returned in half an hour, and
brought me word that the rippling we saw was only a tide, and that they had no ground there.

