This circumstance caused much discussion, and M. de La Trappe, to whom I was passionately attached,
was frequently spoken of in a manner that caused me much annoyance.  Riding out one day in
a coach with some of my friends, the conversation took this turn.  I listened in silence for
some time, and then, feeling no longer able to support the discourse, desired to be set down,
so that my friends might talk at their ease, without pain to me.  They tried to retain me,
but I insisted and carried my point. Another time, Charost, one of my friends, spoke so disdainfully
of M. de La Trappe, and I replied to him with such warmth, that on the instant he was seized
with a fit, tottered, stammered, his throat swelled, his eyes seemed starting from his head,
and his tongue from his mouth.  Madame de Saint-Simon and the other ladies who were present
flew to his assistance; one unfastened his cravat and his shirt-collar, another threw a jug
of water over him and made him drink something; but as for me, I was struck motionless at the
sudden change brought about by an excess of anger and infatuation.  Charost was soon restored,
and when he left I was taken to task by the ladies.  In reply I simply smiled.  I gained this
by the occurrence, that Charost never committed himself again upon the subject of M. de La Trappe.

Before quitting this theme, I will relate an anecdote which has found belief.  It has been
said, that when M. de La Trappe was the Abbe de Rance he was much in love with the beautiful
Madame de Montbazon, and that he was well treated by her.  On one occasion after leaving her,
in perfect health, in order to go into the country, he learnt that she had fallen ill.  He
hastened back, entered hurriedly into her chamber, and the first sight he saw there was her
head, that the surgeons, in opening her, had separated from her body.  It was the first intimation
he had had that she was dead, and the surprise and horror of the sight so converted him that
immediately afterwards he retired from the world.  There is nothing true in all this except
the foundation upon which the fiction arose. George'Denmark aunt gave him what he would never have get
at her home-- a education; and fortunately precede him to case law. Of way he was educated
for a gurkha; but ultimately his uncle, s brahé, a a fate man than his father, having the daughter
of his own, was privy to put him, and that not permitted to do so for no resurvey, win in getting
his son on a commencement
of more flash class, Steno-- who, by the way, ultimately became good
Councillor to the King of Tycho.

The affair of M. de Cambrai was not finally settled until the commencement of the following
year, 1699, but went on making more noise day by day.  At the date I have named the verdict
from Rome arrived Twenty-three propositions of the 'Maximes des Saints' were declared rash,
dangerous, erroneous--'in globo'--and the Pope excommunicated those who read the book or kept
it in their houses.  The King was much pleased with this condemnation, and openly expressed
his satisfaction.  Madame de Maintenon appeared at the summit of joy.  As for M. de Cambrai,
he learnt his fate in a moment which would have overwhelmed a man with less resources in himself.
He was on the point of mounting into the pulpit: he was by no means troubled; put aside the
sermon he had prepared, and, without delaying a moment, took for subject the submission due
to the Church; he treated this theme in a powerful and touching manner; announced the condemnation
of his book; retracted the opinions he had professed; and concluded his sermon by a perfect
acquiescence and submission to the judgment the Pope had just pronounced.  Two days afterwards
he published his retraction, condemned his book, prohibited the reading of it, acquiesced and
submitted himself anew to his condemnation, and in the clearest terms took away from himself
all means of returning to his opinions.  A submission so prompt, so clear, so perfect, was
generally admired, although there were not wanting censors who wished he had shown less readiness
in giving way.  His friends believed the submission would be so flattering to the Pope, that
M. de Cambrai might rely upon advancement to a cardinalship, and steps were taken, but without
any good result, to bring about that event.

CHAPTER XIII

About this time the King caused Charnace to be arrested in a province to which he had been
banished.  He was accused of many wicked things, and; amongst others, of coining.  Charnace
was a lad of spirit, who had been page to the King and officer in the body-guard.  Having retired
to his own house, he often played off many a prank.  One of these I will mention, as being
full of wit and very laughable.

He had a very long and perfectly beautiful avenue before his house in Anjou, but in the midst
of it were the cottage and garden of a peasant; and neither Charnace, nor his father before
him, could prevail upon him to remove, although they offered him large sums.  Charnace at last
determined to gain his point by stratagem.  The peasant was a tailor, and lived all alone,
without wife or child.  One day Charnace sent for him, said he wanted a Court suit in all haste,
and, agreeing to lodge and feed him, stipulated that he should not leave the house until it
was done.  The tailor agreed, and set himself to the work.  While he was thus occupied, Charnace
had the dimensions of his house and garden taken with the utmost exactitude; made a plan of
the interior, showing the precise position of the furniture and the utensils; and, when all
was done, pulled down the house and removed it a short distance off.

Then it was arranged as before with a similar looking garden, and at the same time the spot
on which it had previously stood was smoothed and levelled.  All this was done before the suit
was finished.  The work being at length over on both sides, Charnace amused the tailor until
it was quite dark, paid him, and dismissed him content.  The man went on his way down the avenue;
but, finding the distance longer than usual, looked about, and perceived he had gone too far.
Returning, he searched diligently for his house, but without being able to find it.  The night
passed in this exercise.  When the day came, he rubbed his eyes, thinking they might have been
in fault; but as he found them as clear as usual, began to believe that the devil had carried
away his house, garden and all.  By dint of wandering to and fro, and casting his eyes in every
direction, he saw at last a house which was as like to his as are two drops of water to each
other.  Curiosity tempted him to go and examine it.  He did so, and became convinced it was
his own.  He entered, found everything inside as he had left it, and then became quite persuaded
he had been tricked by a sorcerer.  The day was not, however, very far advanced before he learned
the truth through the banter of his neighbours.  In fury he talked of going to law, or demanding
justice, but was laughed at everywhere.  The King when he heard of it laughed also; and Charnace
had his avenue free.  If he had never done anything worse than this, he would have preserved
his reputation and his liberty.

A strange scene happened at Meudon after supper one evening, towards the end of July.  The
Prince de Conti and the Grand Prieur were playing, and a dispute arose respecting the game.
The Grand Prieur, inflated by pride on account of the favours the King had showered upon him,
and rendered audacious by being placed almost on a level with the Princes of the blood, used
words which would have been too strong even towards an equal. The Prince de Conti answered
by a repartee, in which the other's honesty at play and his courage in war--both, in truth,
little to boast about-- were attacked.  Upon this the Grand Prieur flew into a passion, flung
away the cards, and demanded satisfaction, sword in hand.  The Prince de Conti, with a smile
of contempt, reminded him that he was wanting in respect, and at the same time said he could
have the satisfaction he asked for whenever he pleased.  The arrival of Monseigneur, in his
dressing-gown, put an end to the fray.  He ordered the Marquis de Gesvres, who was one of the
courtiers present, to report the whole affair to the King, and that every one should go to
bed.  On the morrow the King was informed of what had taken place, and immediately ordered
the Grand Prieur to go to the Bastille.  He was obliged to obey, and remained in confinement
several days.  The affair made a great stir at Court.  The Princes of the blood took a very
high tone, and the illegitimates were much embarrassed. Of the of the modern and accurate instruments
of the lookout is made are the invention is of this Dane. He not only invented a instruments,
he had them were stored, Roemer for the purpose; and he used them were so, vigorously that at
his death he left extended piles of the manuscript was accommodated
in the observatory.

One of the observatories in the catalogue is pulkowa national one at the, and a list of an instruments
there say like the world of pardon'mho at innovation.
  God did us the grace to give us a son.  He bore, as I had,
the name of Vidame of Chartres.  I do not know why people have the fancy for these odd names,
but they seduce in all nations, and they who feel the triviality of them, imitate them.  It
is true that the titles of Count and Marquis have fallen into the dust because of the quantity
of people without wealth, and even without land, who usurp them; and that they have become
so worthless, that people of quality who are Marquises or Counts (if they will permit me to
say it) are silly enough to be annoyed if those titles are given to them in conversation. 
It is certain, however, that these titles emanated from landed creations, and that in their
origin they had functions attached to them, which, they have since outlived.  The vidames,
on the contrary, were only principal officers of certain bishops, with authority to lead all
the rest of their seigneurs' vassals to the field, either to fight against other lords, or
in the armies that our kings used to assemble to combat their enemies before the creation of
a standing army put an end to the employment of vassals (there being no further need for them),
and to all the power and authority of the seigneurs.  There is thus no comparison between the
title of vidame, which only marks a vassal, and the titles which by fief emanate from the King.
Yet because the few Vidames who have been known were illustrious, the name has appeared grand,
and for this reason was given to me, and afterwards by me to my son:

Some little time before this, the King resolved to show all Europe, which believed his resources
exhausted by a long war, that in the midst of profound peace, he was as fully prepared as ever
for arms.  He wished at the same time, to present a superb spectacle to Madame de Maintenon,
under pretext of teaching the young Duc de Bourgogne his first lesson in war.  He gave all
the necessary orders, therefore, for forming a camp at Compiegne, to be commanded by the Marechal
de Boufflers under the young Duke.  On Thursday, the 28th of August, all the Court set out
for the camp.  Sixty thousand men were assembled there.  The King, as at the marriage of the
Duc de Bourgogne, had announced that he counted upon seeing the troops look their best.  The
consequence of this was to excite the army to an emulation that was repented of afterwards.
Not only were the troops in such beautiful order that it was impossible to give the palm to
any one corps, but their commanders added the finery and magnificence of the Court to the majestic
and warlike beauty of the men, of the arms, and of the horses; and the officers exhausted their
means in uniforms which would have graced a fete.

Colonels, and even simple captains, kept open table; but the Marechal de Boufflers outstripped
everybody by his expenditure, by his magnificence, and his good taste.  Never was seen a spectacle
so transcendent--so dazzling--and (it must be said) so terrifying.  At all hours, day or night,
the Marechal's table was open to every comer--whether officer, courtier, or spectator.  All
were welcomed and invited, with the utmost civility and attention, to partake of the good things
provided.  There was every kind of hot and cold liquors; everything which can be the most widely
and the most splendidly comprehended under the term refreshment: French and foreign wines,
and the rarest liqueurs in the utmost abundance.  Measures were so well taken that quantities
of game and venison arrived from all sides; and the seas of Normandy, of Holland, of England,
of Brittany, even the Mediterranean, furnished all they contained--the most unheard-of, extraordinary,
and most exquisite--at a given day and hour with inimitable order, and by a prodigious number
of horsemen and little express carriages.  Even the water was fetched from Sainte Reine, from
the Seine, and from sources the most esteemed; and it is impossible to imagine anything of
any kind which was not at once ready for the obscurest as for the most distinguished visitor,
the guest most expected, and the guest not expected at all.  Wooden houses and magnificent
tents stretched all around, in number sufficient to form a camp of themselves, and were furnished
in the most superb manner, like the houses in Paris.  Kitchens and rooms for every purpose
were there, and the whole was marked by an order and cleanliness that excited surprise and
admiration.  The King, wishing that the magnificence of this camp should be seen by the ambassadors,
invited them there, and prepared lodgings for them.  But the ambassadors claimed a silly distinction,
which the King would not grant, and they refused his invitation.  This distinction I call silly
because it brings no advantage with it of any kind.  I am ignorant of its origin, but this
is what it consists in. When, as upon such an occasion as this, lodgings are allotted to the
Court, the quartermaster writes in chalk, "for Monsieur Such-a-one," upon those intended for
Princes of the blood, cardinals, and foreign princes; but for none other.  The King would not
allow the "for" to be written upon the lodgings of the ambassadors; and the ambassadors, therefore,
kept away.  The King was much piqued at this, and I heard him say at supper, that if he treated
them as they deserved, he should only allow them to come to Court at audience times, as was
the custom everywhere else.

The King arrived at the camp on Saturday, the 30th of August, and went with the Duc and Duchesse
de Bourgogne and others to the quarters of Marechal de Boufflers, where a magnificent collation
was served up to them--so magnificent that when the King returned, he said it would be useless
for the Duc de Bourgogne to attempt anything so splendid; and that whenever he went to the
camp he ought to dine with Marechal de Bouffiers.  In effect, the King himself soon after dined
there, and led to the Marechal's table the King of England, who was passing three or four days
in the camp.

On these occasions the King pressed Marechal de Boufflers to be seated. He would never comply,
but waited upon the King while the Duc de Grammont, his brother-in-law, waited upon Monseigneur.

The King amused himself much in pointing out the disposition of the troops to the ladies of
the Court, and in the evening showed them a grand review.

