The high-perched room was Dick Peyton's private office, a retreat partitioned off from the
larger enclosure in which, under a north light and on a range of deal tables, three or four
young draughtsmen were busily engaged in elaborating his architectural projects. The outer
door of the office bore the sign: Peyton and Gill, Architects; but Gill was an utilitarian
person, as unobtrusive as his name, who contented himself with a desk in the workroom, and
left Dick to lord it alone in the small apartment to which clients were introduced, and where
the social part of the business was carried on.

It was to serve, on this occasion, as the scene of a tea designed, as Kate Peyton was vividly
aware, to introduce a certain young lady to the scene of her son's labours. Mrs. Peyton had
been hearing a great deal lately about Clemence Verney. Dick was naturally expansive, and his
close intimacy with his mother--an intimacy fostered by his father's early death--if it had
suffered some natural impairment in his school and college days, had of late been revived by
four years of comradeship in Paris, where Mrs. Peyton, in a tiny apartment of the Rue de Varennes,
had kept house for him during his course of studies at the Beaux Arts. There were indeed not
lacking critics of her own sex who accused Kate Peyton of having figured too largely in her
son's life; of having failed to efface herself at a period when it is agreed that young men
are best left free to try conclusions with the world. Mrs. Peyton, had she cared to defend
herself, might have said that Dick, if communicative, was not impressionable, and that the
closeness of texture which enabled him to throw off her sarcasms preserved him also from the
infiltration of her prejudices. He was certainly no knight of the apron-string, but a seemingly
resolute and self-sufficient young man, whose romantic friendship with his mother had merely
served to throw a veil of suavity over the hard angles of youth.

But Mrs. Peyton's real excuse was after all one which she would never have given. It was because
her intimacy with her son was the one need of her life that she had, with infinite tact and
discretion, but with equal persistency, clung to every step of his growth, dissembling herself,
adapting herself, rejuvenating herself in the passionate effort to be always within reach,
but never in the way.

Denis Peyton had died after seven years of marriage, when his boy was barely six. During those
seven years he had managed to squander the best part of the fortune he had inherited from his
step-brother; so that, at his death, his widow and son were left with a scant competence. Mrs.
Peyton, during her husband's life, had apparently made no effort to restrain his expenditure.
She had even been accused by those judicious persons who are always ready with an estimate
of their neighbours' motives, of having encouraged poor Denis's improvidence for the gratification
of her own ambition. She had in fact, in the early days of their marriage, tried to launch
him in politics, and had perhaps drawn somewhat heavily on his funds in the first heat of the
contest; but the experiment ending in failure, as Denis Peyton's experiments were apt to end,
she had made no farther demands on his exchequer. Her personal tastes were in fact unusually
simple, but her outspoken indifference to money was not, in the opinion of her critics, designed
to act as a check upon her husband; and it resulted in leaving her, at his death, in straits
from which it was impossible not to deduce a moral.

